OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. XCVI.\#151 ; A. a CONTENTS .
Page Sir William Crookes ( with portrait ) ... ... ... i Sir Joseph Wilson Swan ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
ix George Carey Foster ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xv Sir WILLIAM CROOKES , O.M. , 1832\#151 ; 1919 .
The author of a succession of papers published by the Royal Society and other scientific bodies extending over 67 years ( from 1851 to 1918 ) , to say nothing of a number of technical treatises in the form of large volumes , must have been a man of remarkable industry as well as intellectual qualities , and those who believe in the influence of heredity will therefore be disposed to look for some indication of the ancestral origin of these qualities in the famous man who has so recently passed \#163 ; way .
His father , Joseph Crookes , born in 1792 , the son of a small tailor in the north of England , came to London a poor boy .
But he was evidently a man of brain and energy , for the tailor 's business he established proved so prosperous , that when he died in 1884 , at the age of 92 , he \yas a rich man .
Joseph Crookes married on February 24 , 1831 , at Aynhoe , Northamptonshire , as his second wife , Margaret Scott , and from this lady he had a second family of several sons and daughters .
William was her firstborn , and resembling her in feature and in disposition , it may be surmised that he derived some of his characteristics from her .
There is but little to say concerning William Crookes 's early years .
Improbable as it may appear , he always maintained that he remembered learning to stand and to walk .
Such regular education as he received was obtained at a grammar school at Chippenham .
His father wished to make him an architect , but in the end he satisfied his inclination for experimental work , already indicated at home , by entering the Royal College of Chemistry under Hofmann , the first professor , in 1848 .
He must have made extraordinary progress , as in 1851 his first paper appeared in three German Chemical Journals to which it was communicated , doubtless by Hofmann .
The English version was printed in the ' Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society ' ( vol. 4 , 1852 ) , " On the Seleno-Cyauides , by William Crookes , Esq. , Assistant in the Royal College of Chemistry .
' ' This position as Assistant he retained from 1850 to 1854 .
He then went to Oxford for a short time as Superintendent of the Meteorological Department at the Radcliffe Observatory , and in 1855 he became Lecturer on Chemistry at the Chester Training College .
In 1856 he married Miss Ellen Humphrey , a native of Darlington , whose acquaintance he had made some years earlier through school friends of his sister .
They were married on April 10 , 1856 , at the Parish Church of St. Pancras , Middlesex , and began housekeeping at 20 , Mornington Road , N.W. They removed to 7 , Kensington Park Gardens in 1880 , and this was their home to the end of their lives .
In 1859 he brought out the first number of the ' Chemical News , ' of which he remained sole editor till 1906 .
In the meantime he seems to have been much occupied with the study of vol. xcvi.\#151 ; a. b ii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
phenomena connected with the nature and effects of light , for several papers relating to photography were published between 1853 and 1857 .
Soon after this the employment of the prism in recognising and distinguishing volatile substances in flame was introduced by Bunsen and Kirchhoff , and the discovery of rubidium and caesium in the water of the Diirkheim spring was announced by Bunsen in 1860 .
On applying the spectroscope to the seleniferous material from the vitriol works at Tilkerode ( Harz ) , which had been given to him by Hofmann some years previously , and which he had used as the source of selenium in his work on the selenocyanides , Crookes observed a new green line which led him to the discovery of thallium .
The first announcement of the existence of a new element appeared in the * Chemical News , ' March 30 , 1861 .
It was originally supposed to he related to sulphur , but the discoverer soon saw fit to alter his opinion and the specimens exhibited in the International Exhibition , 1862 , and to which a medal was awarded , were labelled Thallium , new metallic dement .
The discovery was interesting from several points of view .
The use of the spectroscope was novel and the properties of the new metal were strange , exhibiting as it does , the appearance and approximately the density of lead , some of its salts resembling those of lead and mercury , while others are perfectly similar in solubility and crystalline relations to the salts of the alkali metals .
The discovery of thallium at once secured for William Crookes a recognised position in the scientific world , and in 1863 he was elected F.B.S. Obviously the first task which lay before him was the investigation of the chemical and physical properties of the new element and its sources in nature .
Among the most important of the physical constants to be determined was the atomic weight , and the remarks on the subject contained in Prof. F. W. Clarke 's " Constants of Nature " ( Smithsonian Institution , 1882 ) , may properly be quoted here .
" In 1873 , Crookes the discoverer of thallium , published his final determination of its atomic wreight .
His method was to effect the synthesis of thallium nitrate from weighed quantities of absolutely pure thallium .
No precaution necessary to ensure purity of materials was neglected ; the balances were constructed specially for the research ; the weights were accurately tested and all their errors ascertained ; weighings were made partly in air and partly in , but all were reduced to absolute standards , and unusually large quantities of thallium were employed in each experiment . . . .
Suffice it to say that the research is a model which other chemists will do well to copy . . . .
Hence , using the atomic weights and probable errors previously found for N and 0 , T1 = 203115 + 0365 .
If 0 = 16 , T1 = 204183 . . . .
Crookes himself , using 6P889 as the molecular weight of the group NO3 , gets the value T1 = 203'642 ; the lowest value in the series being 203'628 and the highest 203'666 , an extreme variation of 0'038 .
This is extraordinary accuracy for so high an atomic weight , at least as far as Crookes 's work is concerned .
" This passage illustrates the spirit which animated Crookes 's work throughout .
Nothing short of the highest attainable accuracy ever satisfied him .
Sir William Crookes .
m The use of the vacuum balance , however , was attended by unexpected phenomena , which occupied his attention for many years afterwards and led to the discovery of the radiometer in 1875 .
This was described in a paper entitled " On Attraction and Repulsion resulting from Radiation , " communicated to the Royal Society on March 20 , 1875 .
A Royal Medal was awarded to Crookes at the Anniversary Meeting in the same year .
The President in presenting the medal referred to the instrument in the form in which it has been since familiar , namely , with the four-armed fly mounted on a sharp point and having the vertical disks at the ends of the arms blackened on one side .
He also remarked " it is the mystery attending this phenomenon that gives it its great importance .
" Great interest was manifested by many experimenters in the phenomena observed , and there were many attempts at explanation .
In the end , the hypothesis put forward by Dr. G. Johnstone-Stoney , according to which the repulsion is due to the movements of the molecules of the residual gas acting differentially on the two surfaces of the movable disk , was accepted .
t In a footnote to one of his papers ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 25 , p. 308 , November 16 , 1876 ) , Crookes drew attention to the properties of highly attenuated gas , and expressed the view that the phenomena indicate the existence of a fourth state of matter as far removed from the condition of gas as gas is from liquid .
In all the numerous experiments connected with this investigation Crookes was assisted by Mr. C. IT .
Gimingham , whose mechanical dexterity and skill as a glass-blower were quite remarkable .
Gimingham joined the Swan Electric Light Company in 1881 , but unhappily died a few years later .
The phenomena exhibited by the electric discharge in rarefied gas had long been familiar and had been studied by Pliicker , by Hittorf , and other physicists .
It was natural that in the examination of the properties of highly attenuated gas the phenomena exhibited by electric discharge through such media should receive Crookes 's attention , and in the paper in which his first experiments in this direction were described ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 28 , p. 110 ) , he was led to theoretical speculations on the ultra gaseous state of matter .
In this paper the dark space which appears round the negative pole was the subject of experiment and was found to enlarge as the exhaustion proceeds , while the phosphorescence excited on the glass walls of the tube diminishes and ultimately disappears .
The dark region round the electrode has since been known as the Crookes or cathode dark space .
The rays from the cathode may be made to converge by the use of an aluminium cup and the result is the production of a green phosphorescent spot on the glass , the rays travelling in straight lines cast a strong shadow from any object placed in their path .
The rays when concentrated also develop great heat which may rise to the melting point of platinum .
In 1880 the Trench Acadbmie des Sciences awarded Crookes an extraordinary prize of 3000 francs and a gold medal in recognition of his discoveries in molecular physics and radiant matter .
In the years following iv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
1880 he continued the active investigation of the phenomena exhibited by gases in a highly attenuated state , and among other properties he studied the heat conduction and viscosities of gases in this condition .
He also examined the phosphorescence exhibited by many substances when exposed to the discharge from the negative pole in a highly exhausted tube ; and in the Bakerian Lecture for 1883 , speaking of this discharge as " radiant matter , " he considered that the particles flying from the cathode were of the dimensions of molecules .
For some years he was occupied in tracing by the spectroscope the changes noted , and he was led to attempt the separation of some of the earths , notably yttria , into the components of which they were supposed to consist , by means of a very elaborate system of chemical fractionation .
The result of all this work led him to speculations as to the characters of the elements and the existence of a class of bodies which he called " meta-elements .
" These metaelements he regarded as composed of atoms " almost infinitely more like each other than they are to the atoms of any other approximating element .
It does not necessarily follow that the atoms shall all be absolutely alike among themselves .
The atomic weight , which we ascribe to yttrium , therefore merely represents a mean value around which the actual weights of the individual atoms of the ' element ' range within certain limits .
But if my conjecture is tenable , could we separate atom from atom we should find them varying within narrow limits on each side of the mean .
" This view was put forward in the Presidential Address to the Chemical Society , 1888 , the whole of which even now after thirty years would repay perusal .
The possibility of the evolution of the elements from a primal elementary protyl or urstoff is a proposition which has been discussed from the most ancient times , but the chemist had little positive information as to the interrelations among the recognised elements before the conception of the periodic law .
Taking an idea from Prof. Emerson Reynolds for the diagrammatic display of the periodic relation of properties to atomic weight , Crookes produced a figure of eight curve , on which the symbols of the elements are placed at intervals so that the members of natural families fall into position vertically over one another .
On this curve the meta-elements would be ranged in groups or clusters close together .
Radio-activity had not been discovered when this address was composed , but something approaching Crookes 's idea has been realised in more recent times by the discovery of isotopes among the products of the disintegration of radio-active elements .
For his researches on the behaviour of substances under the influence of the electric discharge in a high vacuum , with special reference to their spectroscopic behaviour , the Davy Medal was awarded to Crookes by the Royal Society in 1889 .
The discovery of argon by Rayleigh and Ramsay in 1894 , and of helium by Ramsay in 1895 , opened a new field , and Crookes being recognised as the most experienced observer of spectra and the highest English authority in this direction , the new gases were at once submitted to him , and the i Sir William Crookes , v identity of terrestrial with solar helium was established finally by his examination .
Soon after this time the brilliant researches of J. J. Thomson threw an entirely new light on all the difficult spectroscopic questions which had been so patiently and so successfully examined by Crookes .
It became clear that the particles projected from the cathode were much smaller than any known atoms or molecules of ordinary matter , and were in fact the minute bodies called electrons .
On this point , Crookes in a paper on the " Stratifications of Hydrogen " ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 79 , p. 411 ) , expressed himself in the following terms:\#151 ; " In twenty-five years one 's theories may change , although the facts on which they are based remain immovable .
What I then called ' Radiant Matter ' now passes as ' Electrons , ' a term coined by Dr. Johnstone-Stoney to represent the separate units of electricity which is as atomic as matter .
What was puzzling and unexplained on the \#163 ; Radiant Matter ' theory is now precise and luminous on the ' Electron ' theory .
" .
And by application of this theory the stratifications of hydrogen were explained .
The discovery of radio-activity by Henri Becquerel and of radium by Madame Curie towards the end of the century , naturally attracted Crookes 's interest and attention .
On examination of uranium salts some specimens were found to be much more radio-active than others .
It was soon found that the radio-active constituent is precipitated from a solution by ammonia , and on adding excess of the reagent a small insoluble light brown precipitate is left which exhibits strong radio-active properties , while the uranium salt remaining is almost inactive .
A year later the uranium had regained its .activity .
To the active substance the name Uranium X was given .
Whatever be its nature , it is evident that uranium owes its usual activity to the presence of this substance which is generated from it and the separation of which depends on the readiness with which it attaches itself to precipitates , especially ferric hydroxide , when iron is present as an impurity in the uranium compound employed as material .
The year following , Crookes continuing his observations on the emanations of radium , discovered the effects produced by the a rays on a surface of hexagonal blende ( zinc sulphide ) , and invented the little instrument , which he called the spinthariscope , by which the number of scintillations can be counted , each spark being produced by one a particle .
The researches on the spectra and other characters of the rare earths occupied more than 20 years , and one result was a very extensive study of scandium and its salts , which places it in the position of being now better known than almost any other of these difficult elements from which scandium is separated by its low atomic weight .
In 1908 Crookes drew attention to the remarkable resistance to the attack of all kinds of reagents by the metals iridium and rhodium , and in 1912 he recorded a useful series of observations on the relative volatility of metals of the platinum group .
In the case of platinum at 1800 ' the metal seems to vi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
volatilise per se , whereas the loss of weight of iridium is probably due to the formation of a volatile oxide .
The spectra of elementary boron and silicon were the subjects of papers communicated to the Royal Society in 1912 and 1914 .
A very valuable investigation undertaken in connection with the Glass Workers ' Cataract Committee of the Royal Society , was begun in 1909 .
The main object was to prepare a glass which will cut off those rays from highly heated molten glass which damage the eyes of workpeople .
This involved a study of the effects of the addition of a large number of metallic oxides to a colourless glass , specially prepared for the purpose by Mr. H. Powell of the Whitefriars Glass Works .
The problem was to prepare a glass which would cut off as much as possible of the heat radiation , and at the same time be opaque to the ultra-violet rays , while the colour would be scarcely noticeable when used in spectacles .
In the result , a series of 18 different recipes were provided which meet , more or less fully , the three requirements contemplated .
These have been found to be , in practice , very beneficial to the workers .
We may now recall some of the subjects which at various times were studied by this untiring worker , outside the course of research which may be supposed to have represented his predilection .
It should not be forgotten that when quite a young man he was appointed by the Government to report on disinfectants and their application to the arrest of the cattle plague in 1866 , and that he was responsible for the recognition of the antiseptic value of phenol or carbolic acid .
The diamond has been ever a subject of interest , not merely to the jeweller but to the mineralogist and chemist , owing to the mystery in which , up to recent times , its origin and formation were involved .
In a visit to Kimberley in 1896 , Crookes spent nearly a month in the mines studying the question of the origin of the mineral , and again in 1905 , on the occasion of the visit of the British Association , he pursued the same enquiry .
In 1893 the late Prof. Moissan demonstrated the production of diamonds by crystallisation of carbon from molten iron under pressure , and Crookes showed that the residue of cordite exploded in a closed steel cylinder contains crystalline particles possessing the form of the diamond .
He published an interesting little book on Diamonds in 1909 .
Another subject in connection with which he did good service was the importance of producing and applying to the land much larger quantities of nitrogen in the form of nitrate , in order to increase the supply of wheat .
" The Wheat Problem " was one theme of his Presidential Address to the British Association at the meeting at Bristol in 1898 , and his views on the subject were embodied in a volume published a year later , in which he was able to reply to the various critics who in the meantime had questioned some of his conclusions .
Though doubtless some of his most startling statements admit of modification , the problem still remains a topic of supreme interest to the agriculturist and to the world at large .
It would be almost impossible to enumerate all the various directions in which Sir William Crookes ( he received the honour of knighthood in 1897 ) I Sir William Crookes .
Vll occupied himself in connection with problems of public interest or as expert adviser to the Government , but , in passing , may be mentioned his work on the disposal of town sewage , his Reports on the composition and quality of daily samples of the water supplied to London from 1880 to 1906 , and his services as Consulting Expert on the Ordnance Board from 1907 onwards during the period of the war .
Nor should it be forgotten that the office of President is in many learned societies no sinecure .
In presiding over the Chemical Society ( 1887-1889 ) , the Institution of Electrical Engineers ( 1890-1894 ) , the British Asssociation ( 1898 ) , the Society of Chemical Industry ( 1913 ) , and finally the Royal Society ( 1913-14-15 ) , Sir William paid close attention to all the multifarious details of the business of each Society .
He also served as Honorary Secretary to the Royal Institution from 1900 to 1913 , and as Foreign Secretary to the Royal Society from 1908 to 1912 .
Every man of science among his contemporaries will be ready to affirm therefore that the numerous honours which were showered upon Crookes by the most distinguished Academies and Universities in the world were well earned and very fittingly conferred .
He received from the Royal Society the Royal , the Davy , and the Copley Medals ; and from the Royal Society of Arts the Albert Medal , and finally , in 1910 , the Order of Merit was conferred upon him by the King .
Crookes 's whole scientific career is interesting , apart from the value of his discoveries , as illustrating the fact that to a man of genius the character of his early education has but little influence on his achievements .
As mentioned already , he left school at the early age of fifteen , and at once specialised in a single branch of science under a teacher eminent in his own line , but from whom the young student seems to have derived little but the advantage of example , for the subjects to which Hofmann devoted his energies appear to have had but little attraction for Crookes .
Unlike W. H. Perkin , who also entered the College at about the age of fifteen with equally imperfect general education , he never seems to have been attracted by organic chemistry , and to the end of his life remained practically ignorant of this branch of science .
But the genius displayed by Crookes was accompanied by unusual independence of character which was displayed in a variety of ways , not only in the course taken by his own researches , but by his attitude toward the statements and pretensions of others .
Nothing seemed too improbable to escape his attention , and of this the time and trouble he was tempted to expend on the pretended transmutation of silver into gold some twenty years ago is a sufficient illustration .
The same liberality of spirit made him very tolerant , and perhaps not always sufficiently critical in regard to articles in his paper , The Chemical News .
' Here we must add that no account of William Crookes ' life as a scientific man would be complete , and less than justice would be done to his personal character and independence of spirit if all reference were omitted to the investigations in which , early in his career , he became involved concerning the phenomena of so-called " Spiritualism .
" ' The Quarterly Journal of viii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Science ' for July , 1870 , contains an article under the title , " Experimental Investigation of a New Force , " in which Crookes describes experiments undertaken with Mr. D. D. Home , a " medium " well known to the public at that time .
At one of the earlier stances the experiments were made in the presence of Dr. Huggins ( afterwards Sir William Huggins , President of the Eoyal Society ) , Serjeant Cox , proprietor and conductor of the ' Law Times and Recorder of Portsmouth/ one of Crookes 's brothers , and his chemical assistant .
Later , in January , 1874 , the same journal published " Notes of an Enquiry into the Phenomena called Spiritual during the years 1870-73 , " with the signature William Crookes .
Anyone who has read these articles can realise the shock which was experienced by the scientific world on learning the character of the statements contained in them .
Here was a well-known man of science , a Fellow of the Royal Society , the discoverer of thallium , with which and with its salts , chemists had had time to become perfectly familiar , asserting in the most formal manner , that in his presence things had been seen and done which everyone would regard as contrary to well established natural law and to all ordinary experience .
It is perhaps not surprising that Crookes was publicly attacked in a violent manner , but he was able to show that many misrepresentations and misstatements were made which everyone must now perceive were wholly unjustifiable .
The story of his experiences as told by him is supported by evidence , which would be accepted as conclusive if these statements related to any scientific work or to any ordinary occurrence .
Crookes himself never withdrew or altered his statements concerning the phenomena he had witnessed , and in his Presidential Address to the Meeting of the British Association at Bristol , so late as 1898 , he reiterated his conviction as to their reality .
This conviction he retained to the end of his life .
He was President of the Society for Psychical Research in 1897 .
His view , if he really had a settled opinion , as to the explanation of these strange phenomena , cannot be given in his own words , but the view of Mr. Sergeant Cox on the theory of what he called psychic force , is given very clearly at the end of these " Notes , " and it appears probable from the prominence given to this exposition , that it represents very nearly the opinion of Crookes himself .
Perhaps the last few lines are sufficient to quote in this place , as probably views may have changed during the 45 years since they were written .
The passage is as follows:\#151 ; " The difference between the advocates of psychic force and the Spiritualists consists in this\#151 ; that we contend that there is as yet insufficient proof of any other directing agent than the Intelligence of the Medium , and no proof whatever of the agency of the Spirits of the Dead ; while the Spiritualists hold it as a faith , not demanding further proof , that the Spirits of the Dead are the sole agents in the production of all the phenomena .
Thus the controversy resolves itself into a pure question of fact , only to be determined by a laborious and long continued series of experiments and an extensive collection of psychological facts .
" f Sir Joseph Wilson .
ix It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further , but as Crookes made no secret of his views , and his credibility in regard to all other questions , scientific or otherwise , has never been impugned , his biographer would not be justified in doing more or less than to place on record such statements as appear to represent fairly the position he had assumed , and certainly no biographer would be expected to pronounce any opinion other than that which he believes to have been entertained by the subject of his notice .
By the death of Sir William Crookes on April 4 , 1919 , the world lost a great scientific pioneer .
His age was far advanced , and the loss of his wife some two years earlier had been a severe blow , from which he never completely recovered , so that when in January last his friends learned of his increasing weakness , it was with the sad conviction that the end was not far off .
The touching dedication prefixed to his little book on Diamonds was an indication of the domestic happiness which throughout accompanied his long and active career .
\gt ; W. A. T. SIR JOSEPH WILSON SWAN , 1828\#151 ; 1914 * " The earliest of my recollections relate to Pallion on the Wear near Sunderland , a notable place for shipbuilding when the only material used , or thought of , for shipbuilding was timber .
Pallion was a small riverside place , with high banks , overlooking the river , and unspoiled country at the back , dotted with farms .
" Our house stood alone , with a large garden , overlooking the river , and upon the shipbuilding yards opposite and below .
" Along the fringe of the river there were a few other industries\#151 ; limekilns and glass-works , a pottery , a paper-mill , and copperas works ; and behind the river , farming still held sway , with here and there a large house with wooded grounds .
" I was only four years old when we left Pallion , .but , still , memory has left some distinct traces of the things I saw and heard before we removed to Bishop Wearmouth , two miles away . . . .
Our pleasant drawing-room is now included in the drawing office of the greatest firm of shipbuilders on the Wear .
" * At the request of the Council , the late Prof. Silvanus Thompson had undertaken to write the obituary notice of Sir J. W. Swan , when his unfortunate death prevented his completing the task .
Miss Swan , with whom Prof. Thompson had been in communication , requested Dr. William Garnett to write a short account of her father 's life .
It is this account which is now published.\#151 ; A. S. VOL. XCVI.\#151 ; A. e x Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Such is the description given by Sir Joseph Swan of the place of his birth as it appeared 90 years ago .
As compared with Pallion to-day , the difference is as great as that between peace and war .
Sir Joseph adds : " I very distinctly recall , on waking of a morning , the pleasant sound of the volleying blows of the mallets on the trenails , so different from , and so much more musical than , the harsher note that has since displaced it in connection with the modern iron ship .
" Before I was four I had visited all the works in the neighbourhood , been to the Glass House and seen the process of glass-blowing , ... .
looked into the square pits of the copperas works , and very distinctly remembered the splendid appearance of the green crystals clinging to the sides ; I had been in a pottery and seen clay thrown upon a wheel ... ... ... ... I had seen the limestone quarried and the process of lime-burning .
" I remember the flags and bands incidental to the election of 1832 , just before we left Pallion .
" At Bishop Wearmouth Joseph Swan attended a dame 's school , where his principal achievements were in the direction of needlework , including the sampler , " with its border fantasy of branch and flower and yellow-throated nestlings of the nest .
" After a while he joined his brother John at Dr. Wood 's school of about 200 boys , at Hendon Lodge , an old country mansion with extensive grounds .
About two years after Joseph Swan 's entrance , the school was removed to Hylton Castle , about 2 miles north of Sunderland , famous for its ghost\#151 ; " The cauld lad of Hylton .
" Joseph 's uncle was the owner of a ropeworks , which had a gas plant of its own , and here the schoolboy had an opportunity of studying the manufacture and application of coal gas , but even then gas found in the boy 's mind a powerful rival in electricity , for Mr. John Ridley , " a friend of the family , " possessed an electric machine , with all the paraphernalia then usually associated with it .
It was while the school was still at Hendon Lodge that Dr. Wood , the head-master , made the announcement : " Now , boys , if any of you want to write letters , I want to tell you that from to-morrow you can send a letter from one end of the country to the other\#151 ; from Land 's End to John o ' Groat 's house\#151 ; all the way for a penny .
" Joseph left school at the age of 12 .
Of his school books lie remembered with special pleasure Hugo Reid 's \#163 ; Chemistry ' and Ewing 's ' Elements of Elocution .
' To the latter book he attributed much of his love for poetry and good literature .
From the former he gained his first knowledge of Dalton 's Atomic Theory and his first acquaintance with the manipulation of laboratory apparatus .
In the autumn of 1842 , after spending some time with his great-uncle , Commander Kirtly , R.N. , he returned to Sunderland and was apprenticed to Hudson and Osbaldiston , druggists , for six years ; but before three years had expired both partners were dead , and Swan joined his future brother-in-law , John Mawson , of Newcastle-upon-Tyne .
This was the beginning of the firm of " Mawson and Swan , " a partnership which was established in 1860 .
As an apprentice in Sunderland , Swan became a member of the local Athenaeum Sir Joseph Wilson Swan .
xi where he had access to scientific publications and popular lectures on Chemistry and Electricity .
He says that it was from these lectures that he first became acquainted with the apparatus necessary for the production of electric light .
Mr. W. E. Staite , the inventor of a regulating arc lamp , frequently lectured in Sunderland , exhibiting his lamp , which he recommended for lighthouse purposes , and in the course of his lectures he produced electric light from the incandescence of iridio-platinum wire .
This set Swan thinking on the subject .
He wanted to produce the same effect with a filament which would not fuse .
Swan 's special genius is well described in his own words respecting his experimental work in Chemistry and Electricity during his three years of apprenticeship in Sunderland : " I do not know whether it is a general experience or happy chance helping me , but somehow I have always been able to utilise in my experimental work things that happened to be well within my reach , and that seemed to offer themselves to me .
" Electrotyping , introduced to his notice by a neighbouring wood-turner , who used a flower-pot for a porous jar , soon attracted Swan 's attention , and his work-in this connection led him to study all the available forms of voltaic batteries , including the Callan and Bunsen batteries which Staite used for his electric light .
In those days it was not easy to obtain chemical apparatus in a provincial town , and Swan tells us how he extemporised gas jars out of Winchester quarts by means of a red-hot poker , and used Florence flasks for retorts .
It was probably partly due to the difficulties which he thus experienced in Sunderland that he took an early opportunity of adding a department of chemical and physical apparatus to the pharmaceutical business in Newcastle .
There was equal difficulty in securing materials for experimental work if they were not commonly used in pharmacy , and in his address to the students of the Pharmaceutical Society in 1903 Swan referred to the necessity of making for himself ammonium nitrate when he started on an investigation of the properties of nitrous oxide .
It was during these three years of apprenticeship that Swan first saw a Daguerreotype in an engraver 's shop window in Sunderland .
He says that involuntarily he associated the Daguerreotype with electrotyping , and then he saw in Bingham 's ' Daguerreotype Manipulation ' a statement that Daguerreotypes could be reproduced in electrotypes .
Referring to this period of invention , Swan says , " The elation created by the announcement of a great discovery and first acquaintance with its results is a sensation of an extraordinarily uplifting character , and I can never forget its effect as a stimulus to experimental effort .
" On leaving Sunderland for Newcastle , Swan made the acquaintance of John Pattinson and Barnard Simpson Proctor , afterwards Professor of Pharmacy in Newcastle , and a nephew of Faraday .
These three became known to their friends as " The Three Philosophers , " as they held weekly meetings to discuss scientific questions .
Between 1846 and 1859 Swan discussed electric lighting at the meeting of the three philosophers , and made -experiments upon the carbonisation of parchmentised and other paper heated xii Obituary Notices ofFellovjs deceased .
in charcoal powder in the biscuit kiln of a pottery .
Swan was acquainted with the publication in 1845 of King 's specification for producing electric light by means of continuous carbon conductors .
He says , " this teas the first publication of the idea of an incandescent carbon lamp , with carbon in vacuo .
" Swan set to work to make the carbon conductor as thin as possible .
He claimed that the idea of packing the paper or other material in powdered charcoal to exclude the air was original .
The carbon from the parchmentised paper had a metallic ring if allowed to fall on to a hard surface , and could be bent into the form of an arch .
The resistance was so great that only short lengths could be made to incandesce with the battery power available , but a strip bent into the form of a horseshoe was maintained incandescent " for a considerable time " in an exhausted receiver .
A strip of carbon about 0'25 inch wide bent into an arch T5 inches high was incandesced by means of 50 Callan cells .
That early form of lamp was made in 1860 .
The great cost of current produced by primary batteries tended to discourage further experiment , as the lamp was not likely to be of practical service until the cost of current could be reduced .
Swan accordingly , between 1862 and 1867 , devoted much of his attention to photography , and investigated the nature of the effect of light upon bichromated paper and similar materials .
He concluded that it consisted in the reduction of the chromic to the chromous salt , and that this formed an insoluble compound with the size of the paper .
Fox-Talbot had used this reaction for photoengraving .
Swan saw in it the possibility of producing relief pictures , the surface corresponding to the lights and shades of silver prints\#151 ; this was the germ of the carbon process , the Woodbury type and photogravure , and the investigation also had a bearing on the employment of chromous salt for tanning .
The " Autotype " or " Carbon Process " was patented in 1864 , and Swan 's British patent was acquired by the Autotype Company .
One of the incidental results of the working out of the " Carbon Process " was the observation of the indurating effect of the salts of chromic oxide ( of which chrome alum is a type ) on gelatine .
As a consequence of this observation , Mr. Swan proposed the application of the principle of this reaction to the leather-making industry .
Chrome tanning , now an established industry , originated with this discovery .
In 1867 Mr. Mawson died , and the whole management of the business-devolved for a few years upon Swan , so that he had little opportunity for continuing his scientific work until new partners were introduced into the business ; but in 1877 his attention having been called to Dr. Maddox 's experiments with bromide of silver used in conjunction with gelatine , in substitution for collodionized photographic plates , which furnished very uncertain results , he set to work to discover the cause of the irregularity .
In his experimental researches with gelatino-bromide plates , Swan discovered the important fact that an immense increase of sensitiveness was caused in the emulsion by heating it during its preparation .
He did not patent or publish his discovery , but applied it to the manufacture of dry plates , I Sir Joseph Wilson Swan .
xiii thereby inaugurating a new era in photography .
In 1879 he patented bromide printing paper .
In 1877 Swan learned that Mr. C. H. Steam , of Birkenhead , had been working with high vacua , and he enlisted his services to carry out experiments with his carbon filaments .
Swan hoped that in the higher vacua obtained by Stearn the filaments would last longer than in the receiver exhausted only by a piston pump .
The difficulty then appeared of air occluded in the carbon and discharged when the filament was heated by the current .
To meet this difficulty Swan raised the carbon to full incandescence while the process of exhaustion was continued , and then found that the vacuum was maintained when the lamp was incandesced after removal from the pump .
Swan says , " our experiments were never conducted with great secrecy\#151 ; especially we made no secret of the idea of constructing an electric lamp wholly of glass , platinum , and carbon , " but on January 2 , 1880 , he patented the process of exhausting carbon lamps while in a state of incandescence .
He adds , " I made no1 claim for any particular form of lamp , or for its being composed entirely of glass , carbon , and the platinum wires .
I had debarred myself from making such a claim by the public exhibition of lamps having this feature more than a year previously .
At a meeting of the Newcastle-upon-Tyne Chemical Society , held December 18 , 1878 , I showed an incandescent carbon lamp , which consisted wholly of a glass bulb , pierced with two platinum wires , supporting ' between them a carbon filament .
" Swan lectured on electric lighting and exhibited his lamp before large audiences in the theatre of the Literary and Philosophical Society at Newcastle on February 3 , 1879 , and again in the .Town Hall , Gateshead , on March 12 in the same year .
In the following year the lecture room of the Literary and Philosophical Society in Newcastle was illuminated by a number of these lamps .
Two events had contributed to the success of the lamp since Swan had showed his carbon horseshoe glowing in a mechanically-exhausted receiver .
The Sprengel mercury pump had been invented in 1865 , and the dynamo had enabled electric energy to be produced at a reasonable cost .
The filament he subsequently employed was parchmentised cotton thread carbonised .
His production of the squirted collodion filaments followed soon after .
The cellular lead plate for secondary batteries was another of Swan 's contributions to electric lighting .
The rapid deposition of copper by electrolysis occupied very much of his leisure 30 years ago , and he succeeded in depositing tough copper using a current density of 1000 amperes per square foot of cathode surface .
Sir Joseph Swan received the honour of knighthood in November , 1904 .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1894 , and was made Chevalier of the Legion of Honour in 1881 .
He was President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers in 1898-9 , and of the Society of Chemical Industry in 1900 and 1901 .
His death occurred at his home at Warlingham on May 27 , 1914 .
" For the important part he took in the invention of the electric lamp , xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
and for his invention of the carbon process of photographic printing , " Sir Joseph Swan was awarded the Albert Medal of the Koyal Society of Arts in 1906 .
The Hughes Medal of the lloyal Society was awarded to him in 1904 .
He received the Gold Medal of the Society of Chemical Industry in 1903 , and the " Progress " Medal of the Eoyal Photographic Society .
He was the first President of the Faraday Society .
On March 4 , 1914 , the City Council of Newcastle-upon-Tyne resolved to present the Freedom of the City to Sir Joseph Swan " in recognition of his distinguished services in the cause of science , especially in the inventing and perfecting of incandescent electric lamps , and of rapid photographic dry plates .
" The actual presentation took place on July 9 , a few weeks after Sir Joseph 's death , when the family was represented by his son , Mr. Kenneth Swan , the ceremony having been postponed by the express wish of Sir Joseph , who hoped that summer weather would enable him to travel to Newcastle .
Of a charming personality and extremely social disposition , Sir Joseph Swan was always ready to share his good things with others .
For his start on a scientific career he was largely indebted to the Popular Science lectures provided by the Sunderland Athenaeum , and while he could give a highly technical , address to a scientific society on the subjects which he had made his own , he was never happier than when he undertook an experimental lecture to a popular audience .
In these lectures he avoided technicalities while giving such descriptions of inventions , processes , and apparatus as were calculated to inspire the younger members of his audience with the same zeal which had filled his own soul when a chemist 's apprentice at Sunderland .
On systematic scientific training he was equally keen .
He took great interest in the development of the Armstrong College in its early days , and in his Presidential Address to the Society of Chemical Industry in Glasgow in 1901 , he said , " A scientific training of University standard for our manufacturers and for our technical chiefs is an absolute necessity .
Surely public money_ cannot be better spent than in providing adequate facilities for the educational equipment of the men of the future with this essential means of national defence .
Our country possesses great stores of mineral wealth , a precious heritage that we are lavishly spending .
That gift of nature will certainly not avert , and cannot go far to compensate for , the consequences of neglect of the scientific training to turn our fast-diminishing mineral wealth to the best advantage .
One of the most pressing requirements of the moment ... is adequate endowment and encouragement of research .
" W. G. i XV GEORGE CAREY FOSTER , 1835-1919 .
George Carey Foster was born at Sabden , in Lancashire , in 1835 .
His early education was at private schools , until he became a student in chemistry at University College , London , where he graduated in Honours .
He was assistant for a time to Prof. A. W. Williamson , and left England in 1858 to study on the Continent , at Ghent , Paris , and Heidelberg .
At Paris he studied under KekuU , but gradually became more attracted to Physics , and several of the physical articles in ' Watts 's Dictionary of Chemistry ' are from his pen : notably the rather famous article " Heat , " which appeared in 1863 .
In 1862 he became Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Andersonian College , Glasgow ; and in 1865 was elected to the Chair of Physics at University College , London , which he held till 1898 .
In 1900 he became Principal of the College for four years , an eventful period in the Jiistory of London University organisation .
The reconstruction of University College into the University of London , from which it never ought to have been separated , was an object very near his heart .
It had begun near the beginning of the century , with high hopes and legitimate aspirations , and for a time it flourished as essentially the University of London .
But a rival College was founded on more ecclesiastical lines ; and , not being able to give a University Charter to both , wisdom decided that neither should have that dignity .
An examining University was established by Government , apart from either teaching or research .
And after that both Colleges led a struggling and parsimonious existence until recent times .
Whether everything is now put right , those engaged in the work best know .
From the advisory and administrative point of view , Foster did his best in a wise direction under exceptionally difficult circumstances .
Carey Foster 's early publications were on chemical subjects .
They appear in the ' British Association Reports'for 1857 and 1859 , when he reviewed recent progress in Organic Chemistry .
In 1860 , while at Ghent , he described an isomer of hippuric acid ; and in 1861 published a paper " On Piperic and Hydropiperic Acids .
" Several more important papers he published in association with Matthiessen , mainly on the constitution of narcotine and on the production of a new compound called cotarnic acid .
Says Dr. Forster Morley :\#151 ; \#166 ; " These three papers by Foster and Matthiessen made a long step forward in the knowledge of the constitution of the alkaloids , and may , indeed , be termed classical .
The accuracy of the work has been amply confirmed by subsequent investigation .
" And , he adds : " Carey Foster 's work in chemistry shows that , if he had decided to devote himself to that science , he would have taken a distinguished position among his colleagues .
" Undoubtedly , however , Carey Foster 's best known and perhaps most VOL. xcvi.\#151 ; a. d xvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
important scientific work was connected with the employment of the Wheatstone bridge for purpose of accurate measurement and for comparison of standards of electrical resistance .
So much so , that his modification of it is specially constructed for that purpose , and known as the Carey Foster bridge .
His ingenious though simple paper on the subject will be found in the 'Journal of the Society of Telegraph Engineers ' for 1872-1873 , vol. 1 , p. 196 .
His treatment of it is worth reading , for his neat obtaining of the difference-formula is by no means obvious .
Dr. Glazebrook invariably used the Carey Foster method during his custody of , and most careful watch for variations in , the coils which were the National standards of resistance for many years .
Carey Foster applied the same principle to determine the resistance of any good conductor .
Quite short thick pieces of metal could be dealt with , and it was in this way that the present writer determined the conductivity of sundry copper-tin alloys ( ' Phil. Mag./ December , 1879 , p. 554 ) , detecting a curious anomaly which had been previously missed .
It was , in fact , an anticipation of the potentiometer method , and Carey Foster was able to plot equipotential surfaces with much greater ease and accuracy than had previously been achieved , either on the Continent or anywhere .
The simplicity and effectiveness of his device for plotting the curves of currents flowing in various shapes of tinfoil , with differently situated electrodes , could not be excelled .
Some papers on the Flow of Electricity in a Plane , by himself and the present writer , may be here referred to .
They represent a good deal of work , and were perhaps Foster 's most ambitious publication ( ' Phil. Mag. ' for May , June , and December , 1875 , vols .
49 and 50 , pp. 385 , 453 , and 475 ) .
It was gradually found that a good deal of theoretical work in this connection had been done by Kirchhoff and by Prof. W. Bobertson Smith .
( For an extension , see 'Phil .
Mag./ Ser. .
V , vol. 1 , 1876 .
) Foster was always an important member of the British Association Committee on Electric Standards , often occupying the chair at its meetings ; and later he made a series of experiments on absolute determinations of resistance , in conjunction with G. W. de Tunzelmann .
In 1886 he devised a method of determining a coefficient of mutual induction by comparing it with the capacity of a condenser , and so arranging that the galvanometer deflection to be observed was annulled .
It is a method which allows of high accuracy .
The writer , as a student under Carey Foster 's instruction , investigated , for a British Association Committee , the Siemens ' electric pyrometer , and drew attention to the slight changes which its main wire underwent after heating , apparently by reason of the effect of hot gases penetrating the iron sheath and getting at the platinum .
The writer was impressed with the consummate care and scrupulous accuracy demanded by the Professor in this comparatively simple research .
In conjunction with Dr. Fison , Foster determined the potential needed to George Carey Foster .
XYll give sparks in air , using a specially designed form of absolute electrometer , and in conjunction with Dr. A. W. Porter , he published a well-known textbook on Electricity .
He was president of Section A of the British Association in 1877 , and in his address dwelt on the importance of accurate measurement as the foundation of discovery in science .
He also half-humorously supported the idea that a physical theory could not be regarded as complete until it could be expounded to any intelligent man\#151 ; " at least , if he was not in a hurry to catch a train .
" The Physical Society of London , now a flourishing organisation , owes its origin largely to Carey Foster , working in association with one who was still more its founder , Prof. Frederick Guthrie .
The two were in frequent consultation in and before the year 1873 , and at a later stage both held the office of President in due course .
Foster was also President of the Society of Telegraph Engineers .
His fellowship of the Royal Society dates as far back as 1869 , and he was twice elected a Vice-President .
Glasgow and Manchester conferred upon him their honorary doctorates .
The above is a bald and brief summary of salient facts in a life which was quiet and unobtrusive , but the enthusiasm of many of his distinguished students is not explicable by any such bare recital .
The language of exaggeration was always repulsive to him , but that he was everywhere regarded with sincere affection by those who knew him is nothing more than simple fact .
Was he a good teacher ?
That depends on the point of view .
He was not a good lecturer ; he was far from fluent , and he was so conscientious about expressing himself correctly that sometimes he failed to express himself at all .
'But if his halting words were taken down as uttered , they were invariably accurate and sensible and couched in good English .
In writing he was slow and painstaking .
So he was in speaking .
Accordingly , it was only an instinctive sense of respect for a learned and courteous gentleman that kept a large and junior class in order .
The bulk of them could not really know him , and yet they appreciated him .
By his senior students he was both known and beloved .
His manner was , to them , no deterrent ; they recognised beneath it a solid reality , devoid of all show and pretence , but wise , judicious , careful , and trustworthy .
His judgment was astonishingly sound ; his opinion was frequently asked on many topics , and very seldom was he misled into giving a wrong one .
He might err on the side of caution , but when he held opinions he held them strongly , and the reticence with which he expressed his views caused them to be received with the more attention .
Never was anyone more conspicuously free from self-seeking , and people knew it .
So the fact is that Foster was a genuine and very real , though very modest , teacher .
He would discuss problems on equal terms with members of his class , spending any amount of time after a lecture , and he was working with the students in his laboratory every day .
Indeed , the physical laboratory at xviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
University College was his creation , out of a couple of preparation rooms .
During his early tenure of the chair there appears to have been no students ' ' physical laboratory south of the Tweed .
Gradually the laboratory began , in a very small way , at first for senior students only , but afterwards for all who were ready to come ; and University College has done well to call its later well-equipped new building " The Carey Foster Laboratory .
" A fuller and more detailed obituary notice , by his friend and old student , Dr. A. H. Fison , may be referred to in the ' Transactions of the Chemical Society ' for 1919 , vol. 115 , pp. 412\#151 ; 427 .
In his domestic life Foster was exceptionally happy ; his eight children are all living , and his wife only predeceased him by 18 months .
He died at Kickmansworth on February 9th , 1919 , aged 84 .
To the writer during his early struggles in London he held out a helping hand , as he doubtless did also to many an ambitious and impecunious student .
He leaves behind a fragrant memory , for he was one of the best and most unselfish of men .
0 .
J. L.

