318 On Entyloma ranunculi ( ) .
[ Nov. 25 , X"CXaHd Fellow of Chrisfe College , Cambridge , and Professor ' of Botany in the Forestry School , Royal Indian Engineering College , Cooper 's Hill .
Received October 12 .
( Abstract .
) The author found plants of Ranunculus Ficaria , the leaves of which were all spotted with white patches ; the white patches spread from leaf to leaf , and the dissase assumed the nature of an epidemic The rise , progress , and climax .of the disease were observed both on isolated plants and m the open country , and the nature of the lesions in the leaves was made out .
Evidence was found to support the view that some plants succumb more rapidly ; this evidence was tested , and the circumstances to which the differences are due explained .
The white disease-spots contain the extremely delicate mycelium of Entyloma Ranunculi , and the .
resting-spores of this fungus ( one of the Ustilagineae ) were observed on it .
The mycelium is intercellular , and makes its way in the middle lamella between contiguous cells !
The white powder on the outside of the disease-spot consisted of conidia , very like those of some Ascomycetes .
The author examined the anatomical connexion between the conidia and the resting-spores , and showed that the conidia really belong to the same mycelium \#151 ; m other words , the conidia are a second kind of spore of the Entyloma .
Even more important is the germination of the conidia .
This has not been before observed in any Entyloma .
The germination was traced step by step , not only on glass slips , but also on the living plant .
These infections yielded the result that the germinal hyphas entered the stomata , and produced a mycelium exactly like that in the disease-spots first investigated ; not only so , , but the resting-spores of the Entyloma were produced on this mycelium , thus placing beyond doubt the connexion of the two spores .
It was observed that it required a certain time for the disease to spread : this interval of time is the same as that occupied in infecting plants with the conidia .
Moreover , all the symptoms of the disease produced by infection with the conidia were as before .

