( S Experiments on Light .
" By Henry Fox Talbot , Esq. , M.P. , F.R.S. In the first section of this paper , an account is given of certain appearances presented by transparent objects , and especially saline crystals , viewed through a microscope , when illuminatedby polarized light .
For this purpose , the first polarizing medium , consisting of the arrangement ofsingie-image calcareous spar , invented by Mr. Nichol , is fixed beneath the stage of the microscope ; and the second , which is similar to it , is interposed between the eye-glass and the eye , and is capable of being turned on its axis , so as either to allow of the trans ?
mission of the whole of the light polarized by the first medium , or to intercept the whole of it , according as its position is similar , or at right angles to the former .
In the latter case , any substance which has the property of depolarizing the light transmitted to it by the first medium , will appear luminous , while the rest of the field of view is quite dark , and will exhibit the most brilliant colours , dependent on its thickness and position ; so that if the stage of the microscope be turned round , the colour of each crystal is seen to change , and gra ?
dually to assume the complementary tint .
Other variations in the appearances are produced by interposing a plate of mica , which gives a general tint to the whole field of view , and modifies the colours of the objects viewed $ and also by turning the polarizing eye-piece , so that the whole of the polarized light is transmitted ; when crystals , which would be white if viewed by ordinary light , may be made to as ?
sum various colours , and even sometimes to appear perfectly opaque ; a result which does not seem to be in accordance with that which theory would lead us to expect .
The second section is occupied with the development of a principle which the author conceives is extensively applicable to the purposes of photometry , or the accurate measurement of the intensity of light .
It is founded on the well-known experiment of the appearance of a uniform grey tint presented by a circle , partly white and partly black , when made to revolve rapidly ; the intensity of the light being regulated by the proportional spaces occupied by each colour .
Se ?
veral variations of this experiment are described , with a view to its practical application to the proposed object .
The author also suggests the employment of methods founded on a similar principle to the measurement of quantities in various other branches of physical science ; for example , that of high temperatures .

