404 Messrs. W. Kellner and W. H. Deering .
[ Mar\lt ; 7\gt ; From the results of these experiments it may be stated that\#151 ; 1 .
The initial decomposition of ethylene by heat is very rapid , and requires but a short flow through a heated containing vessel such primary decomposition , however , being but slowly completed , owing to secondary reactions , which tend to re-form ethylene .
2 .
Dilution has but little effect in retarding the decomposition of ethylene , unless it be very large .
3 .
Increase in rate of flow diminishes the amount of decomposition when the heated area is small , but rapidly diminishes in effect as the length of flow through a heated area increases .
4 .
The decomposition of ethylene is chiefly caused by radiant heat , the effect of which is very great as compared with the decom-position due to contact with heated surfaces .
I desire to acknowledge the valuable aid given me by Mr. F. B. Grundy in this investigation .
III .
On the Measurement of Pressures by the Crusher-Gauge .
" By W. Kellner and W. H. Deering .
Communicated by Dr. W. Anderson , F.R.S. Received January 21 , 1895 .
The object of the experiments , the results of which are given in this paper , was to compare the indication of pressure ( produced by the firing in a closed vessel of a gunpowder ) by the crusher-gauge with a simultaneous estimation of the same pressure by another and simple method .
This latter consisted in ascertaining the weight which was equal to the maximum pressure of the gases of the fired cordite ( the smokeless gunpowder used in these experiments ) acting on a valve closing gas-tight an opening in the explosion-vessel of area small enough to allow of the use of weights of manageable amount , not so small a fraction of the unit of surface ( 1 sq .
in .
) as to have to use a very large multiplier .
Within the explosion-vessel , on the top of which were the valve and weights , was placed the crusher-gauge , | the firirg of the charge of cordite giving the two indications of pressure .
In the " weights '* method , a series of short steps was taken , weights in excess of that required being placed on the v alve , the cordite fired , and it being observed whether the gases of explosion were blown out of , or kept in , the vessel .
The amount of compression of the copper-crusher was then measured , and the|| corresponding pressure ascertained from the existing tables .
In the next experiment the weights were lightened , and so on , until the gas blew out of the vessel , the mean of the pressure at the blow-out point and of that in the last experiment in 1895 .
] Measurement of Pressures by the Crusher-Gauge .
405 which the gas was kept in the vessel being taken as the pressure required .
A pressure by copper-crusher was taken in each experiment made , and the mean of the series taken ; the compression of the crusher was the same in the experiments of a series , whether the gases blew out of , or were kept in , the explosion-vessel , the weights apparently not being raised before the compression of the copper had come to an end .
It may be not superfluous to mention that the copper-crusher is a small cylinder of copper , before compression 05 in .
long and 0 326 in .
in diameter , one end of which rests on the base of a steel case in which it is contained , the other end being in contact with one end of a movable piston of 0461 in .
diameter ( -S\#166 ; sq .
in .
section ) , on the other end of which the gases exert their pressure ; suitable provision is made to prevent entrance of gas to the gauge-case , and to hold the copper-crusher in position while allowing room for its widening in the middle by compression .
The coppers are used previously pressed to about a ton short of the pressure to be measured .
Rumford , in 1797 , used a " weights " method to ascertain the relation existing between the pressure produced by a fired gunpowder and the density of the charge ( \#151 ; we*Sfat of gunpowder \ uge(i \volume of explosion-vessel/ charges of gunpowder from 1 to 18 grains in weight , density of charge varied from 004 to O'76 , and the pressures measured were consequently very high ; the weight just lifted by the pressure of the powder gases was found by a series of trials .
Bunsen also ( ' Gasometrische Methoden ' ) used the same method , of course very much altered in details , to ascertain the pressures produced by the combustion of some gases in oxygen ; the gaseous mixtures were at 1 atmos .
pressure , the increase of pressure produced on firing the mixtures was at highest about 10 atmos .
( about -fs ton per sq .
in .
) .
In our experiments , the gases of the fired explosive served only as a medium for comparing the two methods of estimating pressure , so that the question of any lowering of temperature by heating of the explosion-vessel did not come into consideration .
This direct experimental method of checking the crusher-gauge indications is preferable to calculation of pressure from the ascertained amounts of permanent gases , water , and quantity of heat produced at the pressures in question , because the calculation requires knowledge of the specific heat of the gases of combustion at ( in the case of cordite ) about 3000 ' C. , and although , there is valuable information on the subject , it is scarcely sufficiently accurate for this application of it .
Again , the compression of the copper-crusher measures the maximum pressure of the gases , when ( at the temperance mentioned ) some dissociation of carbonic acid would occur ( or Messrs. W. Kellner and W. H. Deering .
[ ^ar\lt ; 7 rather some oxygen and carbonic oxide would co-exist ) , while the quantity of heat is measured in the cooled-down gases when all oxygen and carbonic oxide have combined ; here , also , it would not be practicable with existing information to make an accurate allowance for difference of heat-quantity under the conditions of the experiment .
Further , in calculating the pressure of the gases from their calculated temperature , it is assumed that their coefficients of expansion which were determined for 0 ' to 100 ' C. are valid at 3000 ' C. ( At 0 ' , air is only about 190 ' above , and water is 100 ' below , its boiling temperature .
) If temperature were independently known , the drawbacks just mentioned in the use of the coefficient of expansion , and of the volume of gases , still apply to the calculation of pressure ; and , conversely , to the frequent case of calculating temperature from ascertained pressure .
The steel explosion-vessels used in our experiments were of about 120 c.c. capacity ; they were closed by screw stoppers of about 4 ins .
total length ( the screw portion about li ins .
long ) , the end of which was screwed down to gas-tight contact with the circular seating forming the mouth of the explosion-chamber .
The stoppers had a square head at starting 2 ins .
long ; the whole stopper was perforated axially with a cylindrical hole J in .
in diameter .
The mouth of the hole in the stopper was closed by a steel ball of in .
in diameter ( which formed the valve ) , a ball such as is used for ball-bearings ; ou the ball a 1-in .
thick iron plate , about 15 ins .
by 15 ins .
, was placed ( the centre of the plate being perforated by a cylindrical hole j in .
in diameter , resting on the top of the ball ) , and on the plate the weights .
The latter consisted of lead cylinders , weighing about 5 cwt .
and 8 cwt .
respectively ( diameters 14 ins .
and 12 ins .
) ; of the former , at the most three ( placed on top of each other ) , and of the latter , two , were used .
The weight was made up with half-hundredweights and smaller weights placed on the top of the upper lead-cylinder ; all the weights , lead-cylinders , iron plate , and iron rod , were weighed at the beginning and end of the experiments by standard weights .
The explosion-vessels had externally a collar and a hexagoual portion fitting into a hexagonal hole in an iron plate , which was screwed to a balk of timber , held in place by weights ; this held the explosion-vessel while the screw-stopper was hammered down , and formed the base of the apparatus .
The lead cylinders had an axial cylindrical hole to their centre ; in the hole of the top cylinder an iron rod ( about 1 in .
diameter , 4 ft. long ) was placed , the upper end of the rod passing loosely through a hole in a cross-beam kept in position by iron uprights on either side of the base of the apparatus .
The weights were carefully balanced , so that pressure of iron rod against cross-beam was reduced to an inconsiderable amount .
The lea\lt ; ^ 1895.1 Measurement of Pressures by the Crusher-Gauge .
407cylinders were readily placed in position on the iron plate ( held horizontal by wedges until cylinders and weights were in position ) by means of a movable crane .
The firing of the cordite charge was effected by means of a wire-bridge heated to redness by an electric current ; on the centre of the wire-bridge a small piece of the cordite was firmly hung .
One end of the wire-bridge was soldered to the end of a steel pin forming part of the stopper , the other end was soldered to the end of a steel wire 0f _i_ in .
diameter cemented by a suitable resinous cement in a hole of .jL in .
diameter passing through the length of the stopper .
By reducing the area of the insulated wire to this small amount , the cement held the wire gas-tight against the highest pressure ( 16 tons per sq .
in .
) employed .
In the 14-ton and 16-ton experiments , the stopper was cooled by a little ice placed on its upper surface , to prevent softening of the cement .
The area of the mouth of the hole in the stopper was measured by means of a microscope with a cross-wire , the microscope moving horizontally on a graduated scale and carrying a vernier .
The pressure of the weights on the steel ball and stopper slightly bevels the mouth of the latter ; at the commencement of a series of experiments , weights to about the maximum amount to be used were placed on thd steel ball , and four diameters of the inner and lower circle of the bevelled contact-ring were then measured with the microscope-vernier .
The area was re-measured in the course of several of the series , and found to be unchanged .
One hundred and twenty-six experiments in all were made ; a few of these were lost by the weight required having been under-estimated and the gases blowing out on the first experiment of a series being made .
A few of them also were lost by the blowing out of the insulated wire , or by other causes .
The remainder form tw enty-seven series ( a series consisting of at least two experiments : in one of which the gases were kept in , and were blown out in the following one ) , the results ( viz. , the mean of the last two experiments ) of which are given below .
Eight series consisted of two experiments , two of three , six of four , three of five , six of six , one of seven , one of eight .
The gases were either wholly kept in , or wholly blown out of , the explosion vessel .
In the former case there was no report and no damage to the steel ball , which could be used for all the experiments 'f a series ; in the latter case there was a loud report , and the mouth of the hole in the stopper was slightly injured ( the steel being melted and blown away by the gases ) , and a ring melted in the steel ball .
A new steel ball was , of course , used for each series of experiments .
T'or the experiments at the lower pressures of 5 and 6 tons , the hole in the stopper was ( after damage by the blown-out gases ) enlarged at the top ( to a depth of ^ in .
) to 0'35 in .
, and subsequently to 0'40 in .
408 Messrs. W. Kellner and W. H. Deering .
[ Mar " * ' ) diameter , thus affording a check by varying area .
For the 13 .
16-ton experiments , the 0*25-in .
hole only was used , as the Weights required for the larger holes would have been unmanageable with th means available at the time ; in this case , when damage to the mouth of the hole in the stopper occurred by the blowing out of the gases the head of the stopper was only planed down .
The amounts by which the weights were lightened in the last ( and usually in each ) experiment of a series was the following:\#151 ; 16 tons .
8 series .
5 tons .
6 tons .
13 tons .
f-----------------K---------^ 1 series .
4 series .
2 series .
5 series .
3 series .
0*25-inch / 22 lbs. 14 lbs. 28 lbs. 28 lbs. 56 lbs. hole .
\ = 0*2 ton = 0T3 ton = 0*26 ton = 0*26 ton =\#166 ; 0*52 ton per sq .
in .
6 tons .
6 series .
5 tons .
( -----------------A----------------^ 1 series* 1 series .
1 series .
4 series .
0*35-inch f 56 lbs. 56 lbs. 28 lbs. 14 lbs. hole .
L = 0*26 ton = 0*27 ton = 0*13 ton = 0*06 ton per sq .
in .
5 tons .
6 tons .
1 series .
4 series .
0*4O-inch J 56 lbs. 28 lbs. hole .
I = 0*2 ton = 0*1 ton per sq .
inch .
The weight-differences are , of course , calculated into tons per square inch on the measured areas of the holes , the diameters f which differed slightly from 0*25 in .
, \amp ; c. As mentioned above , half the weight-difference ( the mean of the last two experiments of a series ) is taken for the end result .
The following were the results obtained :\#151 ; 1895.1 Measurement of Pressures by the Crusher-Gauge .
409 a .
iH \amp ; SJ Pn O \#169 ; . . . !
^i\gt ; coo ( N N O J\gt ; CD pH rH CD lp l\gt ; CD O o* \o CD CD O U O a o .2 o o cr1 CQ o A o H \#171 ; g S \#174 ; 9 ?
~9 .
v_2 'S \#166 ; *\gt ; CD O iH T ? !
\gt ; .
J\gt ; CD O o 2 .
cS .
rH rd r^l o .9 iO CM \#169 ; Cd CD CD 00 ID \lt ; M rH rH ^ 00 Ci 00 ID \lt ; ?q -H iH W Q 05 00 ID \lt ; N r-1 rH 05 05 o *\gt ; ID \lt ; M rH pH 00 00 O 00 VO CO rH pH H CD O oo id oq i\#151 ; i rH 05 05 O 00 ID CO pH pH ID I\gt ; ( X ) 00 ID \lt ; N rH rH 05 CD CO ( o \lt ; d \#169 ; \#169 ; lp *D t\gt ; CD O o w oo ^ ^ CD CD O o to j\gt ; * 1\gt ; CD \#169 ; o ft 9 9\lt ; D i\gt ; CD pH \#169 ; ^ CD t\gt ; CD O O ft Mean of the 2 .
14-6 13 1 1*5 9(N0p CD O o cp t\gt ; N CD O 00 tF TfJ CD CD O ^ 9 ^ HH CO iH rH rH *D ID O 05 VO ID O 05 0sH\gt ; ID I D O 14 *7 13-2 1-5 J Si 113\gt ; J S S ^11 * S.SP .2 S3 S 'M'S s { S\#187 ; \#174 ; g ^ \#169 ; Is 'Sd'S .g m Presents .
The pressure by weights was invariably higher than by crusher .
at 5 tons ( by crusher ) the difference was about 11 per cent. , at 6 tons about 9 per cent. , at 13 tons about 11 per cent. , at 16 tons about 16 per cent. At 5 , 6 , and 13 tons there is usually ( but not always ) less difference between the individual pressures by crusher giyea above than between the weights pressures ; at 16 tons there is decidedly greater regularity in the crusher results than in those by weights ; the crusher pressures are , however , the means of series , which favours them somewhat .
Presents , March 7 , 1895 .
Transactions .
London:\#151 ; British Astronomical Association .
Journal .
Vol. Y. No. 4 .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Association . ?
Geologists ' Association .
Proceedings .
Yol .
XIY .
Part 1 .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Association .
Iron and Steel Institute .
Journal .
1894 .
No. 2 .
8vo .
London 1895 ; Brief Index of the Papers contained in the Journal .
1869-94 .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Institute .
Odontological Society .
Transactions .
Yol .
XXVII .
No. 3 .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Society .
Royal College of Physicians .
List of the Fellows , Members , Extra-Licentiates , and Licentiates .
1895 .
8vo .
London .
The College .
Royal Meteorological Society .
Quarterly Journal .
Yol .
XXI .
No. 93 .
8vo .
London 1895 ; Meteorological Record .
Yol .
XIY .
No. 54 .
8vo .
London .
The Society .
Royal Microscopical Society .
Journal .
1895 .
Part 1 .
Bvo .
London .
The Society .
Newcastle-on-Tyne :\#151 ; North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers .
Transactions .
Yol .
XLIY .
Part 8vo .
Newcastle-on-Tyne 1895 .
The Institute .
Penzance:\#151 ; Royal Geological Society of Cornwall .
Transactions .
Yol .
XI .
Part 9 .
8vo .
Penzance 1895 .
The Society .
Santiago:\#151 ; Sociedad Nacional de Mineria .
Boletin .
Ano XI* No. 73 .
4to .
Santiago de Chile 1894 .
The Society .
Stockholm:\#151 ; Kongl .
Yetenskaps Akademie .
Ofversigt .
Arg .
LI .
No. 10 .
8vo .
Stockholm 1894 .
The Academy* Toulouse:\#151 ; Academy des Sciences , Inscriptions , et Belles-Lettres .
Memoires .
Serie 9 .
Tome YI .
8vo .
Toulouse 1894 .
The Academy* Faculte des Sciences .
Annals .
Tome IX .
Fasc .
1 .
4to .
Par^ 1895 .
The Faculty*

