IV .
An Account of the Sinking of three Oaks into the Ground , at Manington in the County of Norfolk .
Communicated by Peter Le Never , Esq ; Norroy King at Arms , and Fellow of the Royal Society .
ON Tuesday July the 23d , of the last Year .
1717 , in the Grounds , and near the Seat of Sir Charles Potts , Baroner , in the County of Norfolk , and Parish of Manington , ( which lies about mid-way between the Market Towns of Holt and Aylsham , and about seven Miles from the Coast near Cromer ) in the day time , to the great astonishment of those that were present ; first , one single Oak , with the Roots and Ground about it , was seen to subside and sink into the Earth and not long after , at about 40 Yards distance , two other Oaks that were contiguous , sunk after the same manner .
into a much larger Pit ; being about 33 Foot Diameter , whereas the former is not fully 8 .
These , as they sunk , fell a-cross , so that obstructing each other , only the Roots of one of them reaches the Bottom , whereas the first stands Perpendicular .
When the first Tree sunk , it was observed , that the Water boiled up in the Hole ; but upon the sinking of the greater Pit , that Water drained off into it , from the former , which now continues dry .
The depth thereof to the firm Bottom is nine Foot three Inches ; and the Tree that stands upright in it , is ~ Foot 8 Inches in Girt , and its Trunk about 18 Foot long , half of which is now within the Pit .
In the Bottom of the greater Pit , there is a Pool of Water about 8 Foot Diameter ; whose Surface is 11 Foot 3 Inches below the Ground , and the Trees that are in this Pit , are much of the same length with the other , but somewhat smaller , the one being in Girt 3 Foot 5 Inches , the other but two Foot 9 Inches .
The Soil on which these Trees grew , is Gravelly ; but the Bottom is a Quick-sand over a Clay , upon which there are Springs , which seed large Ponds adjoining to Sir Charles Potts 's House , at about a quarter of a Mile from these Holes .
The Nature of the Soil seems to afford us a reasonable conjecture at the Cause of this odd accident , which some perhaps may be apt to reckon as a Prodigy .
The Springs running over the Clay at the bottom of a Bed of very minute Sand , such as your Quicksands usually are , may reasonably be supposed in many Ages to have washed away the Sand , and to have thereby excavated a kind of Subterraneous Lake , over which these Trees grew : And the force of the Winds , on their Leaves and Branches , agitating their Roots , may well have loosened the Sand under them , and occasioned it to fall in , more frequently than elsewhere : whereby in length of time the thin Bed of Gravel being only left , it might become unable to support its own weight and that of the Trees it bore .
That this is not a bare conjecture , may appear from the boiling up of the Water at first in the lesser Hole , and its standing in the bigger and lower .
And if it shall be found that it was a very windy day whereon this accident happened , it will much add to the probability of this Solution .
An accident not unlike this lately happened in Fleet-street , London by the defect of the arched Roof of a very deep Common-Sewer .
The Earth gradually falling into the Water , was carried away by it , so as not to obstruct the Water ; and the continual tremour of the Ground , occasioned by the constant passing of Carts and Coaches , by degrees shook down the earth , so as to leave a very great C vern , the Top whereof at length grew so very thin , that one day a weighty Cart having just past it , a great space of the Pavement sunk in , in the middle of the Street , not without hazard to a Coach then driving by .

