Observations of the apparent Distances and Positions of 380 Double and Triple Stars , made in the Years 1821 , 1822 , and 1823 , and compared with those of other Astronomers ; together with an Account of such Changes as appear to have taken place in them since their first Discovery .
Also a Description of a Five-feet Equatorial Instrument employed in the Observations .
By John Frederick William Herschel , Esq. F.R.S. and James South , Esq. F.R.S. Read January 15 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 1 .
] The determination of the apparent distances and positions of such double stars as could be measured with micrometrical instruments and high magnifying powers , was suggested by Sir William Herschel more than forty years ago , and in his hands it led to a new department of physical astronomy , by the discovery of sidereal phenomena referrible to the agency of attractive forces ; but the determination of the existence of annual parallax , the immediate object for which the inquiry was instituted , was soon lost sight of in the more extensive views of the construction of the universe , which gradually unfolded themselves .
Nor has the investigation been resumed , although from the precision with which such observations can be made , it seems , in the opinion of the authors of this paper , likely to be the mode by which the existence or non-existence of sensible parallax will ultimately be determined .
The results of Sir William Herschel 's observations , from 1779 to 1784 , were published in the Philosophical Transactions from 1782 to 1785 ; and a re-examination , after a lapse of twenty years , was undertaken by him in 1801 , -2 , -3 , and -4 ; and in the T'ransactions for 1802 and 1804 , unexpected phenomena were communicated .
Instances in which two stars were performing to each other the offices of sun and planet were proved to exist ; and to more than one pair the period of rotation was , according to the observations of the authors of this paper , ascertained with considerable exactness .
Immersions and emersions of stars behind each other had been witnessed ; and real motions among some of them had been observed rapid enough to be detected in very short intervals of time .
But as from the novelty of the subject , and from the imperfections of the micrometers employed in 1779 and 1780 , it was likely that some instances of error had occasionally crept in , it became desirable that a second re-examination should be instituted:-accordingly , in the year 1816 , some progress was made by Mr. Herschel towards its accomplishment , and the results are communicated in the present paper .
A similar idea having likewise occurred to Mr. South , it was at length determined that the observations should be carried on in concert , and with his instruments .
Meanwhile ( unknown to the authors of this paper ) a similar undertaking had been entered upon by a distinguished continental astronomer , Mr. Struve , Director of the Imperial Observatory at Dorpat ; and the general coincidence between the measures of this observer and those of their own , is deemed at once interesting and corroborative of the accuracy of both .
The instruments with which the observations accompanying this paper were made , are a five- , and a seven-feet equatorial ; the former was constructed under the direction of the late Capt. Huddart , and is remarkable for its extreme lightness , for the promptitude with which it obeys its adjustments , and for its ability in retaining them .
Its object-glass , of 3inches aperture , and of five-feet focal length , is the work of the late P. and J. Dollond ; whilst its divided circles , microscopes , &amp;c. , were completed by Messrs. J. and E. Troughton .
A description of it is given , and a drawing is annexed .
The latter is a telescope of 7-feet focal length , and five inches clear aperture ; it was made by Tulley , and is mounted on the polar axis of the old equatorial sector , made by Sisson for the Royal Observatory , and for .
the use of which , acknowledgment is made to the Council of this Society .
The micrometers employed are the work of Mr. Troughton , and have long since been familiar to astronomers under the name of T'roughton 's Wire Micrometer .
The measures of distance are all central .
Various precautions employed in conducting the observations are narrated ; contrivances whereby some difficulties were surmounted are enumerated .
The observations of each star were generally made in each other 's presence , but occasionally in different parts of the observatory , and with different instruments , without any communication with each other .
In some instances the observations of Mr. Troughton or Mr. Richardson have been appealed to , in order to settle discrepancies .
To the observations of each star the authors attach their mean result ; the results obtained by other observers are also placed in the order in which they were made ; but there is one circumstance to which they solicit attention , namely , that as far as Sir William Herschel 's observations are concerned , the dates and results will not accord with those published by Sir William in the Transactions , for reasons which will be found in a former part of the paper .
As an appendix , measures of a few stars less perfectly observed are added , which , although not entitled to equal confidence with the others , the authors think may perhaps still have their use .

