]\gt ; XI .
The Electrical Conductivity of Echinoderm Eggs , and its Bearing on the Problems of Fertilisation and Artificial Parthenogenesis .
JAMES GRAY , M.A. , Fellow of King 's College , nbridge , 5th West Surrey by Prof. J. S. GARDINER , F.R.S. ( Received February 2 , 1916 .
) CONTENTS .
PART I. Introductory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
481 Method of Investigation . . . . . . . . .
483 Experiments and ResuIts . . . . . . . . . . . . .
486 NormaI Fertilisation . . . . .
489 Artificial Parthenogenesis . . . . .
491 PART II .
Origin of the Variation in Resistance . . . . .
496 Effect of Polarising Ions upon Electrical Resistance . . . . .
498 Effect of Trivalent gative Ions . . . . . .
502 Antagonistic Effects of Positive and Negative Trivalent Ions . . . . .
503 Comparison of Effects of Trivalent lons in different Genera and Species . . . . .
509 The Effect upon Hypertonic Solutions . . . . . . . . .
510 Effect of Hydrogen and Hydroxyl Ions . . . . . . . . . .
511 Effect of Trivalent Positive Ions on Fertilised Eggs . . . . .
514 Summary of General Effects of Trivalent Ions . . . . . . . .
622 Summary and Conclusions . . . . . . . . . .
523 Note on the Effect of Strong and Weak Bascs . . . . .
Note on Energetics of Diffusion . . . . . . . . . . . . .
525 PART I. INTRODUCTORY .
The precise nature of the change which ushers in the development of the egg has been much discussed .
Broadly speaking , problem may be said to have been considered from two points of view , the chemical and the physical .
According to the point of view , the spermatozoon or the parthenogenetic agent has been supposed to start a chemical change within or at the surface of the cell , or to alter the physical properties of the surface .
LOEB , for instance , in a recently published book , ascribes development to the introduction of certain substances into the interior of the egg .
, and McLrNDON , on the other hand , regard an increase in the permeability of * Paper in original form reccived November 12 , and Read December 10 , 1914 .
VOL. CCVII . .
3 [ Published , June 3 , 1916 .
482 MR J. GRAY ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITy OF ECHINODERM EGGS , the egg surface to electrolytes as the precursor of development .
The experiments described in this paper favour general the latter hypothesis ; but as they do not support the theories of LTLLII ] and McLENDON in detail , it will be well to give at the outset a brief sketch of the work of these investigators .
In 1910 LILLIE showed that the unfertilised of lose their pigment when placed in isotonic solutions of various sodium salts .
The order of effectiveness of the anions was found to be ; this is also the order in which these ions affect the state of aggregation of colloids .
If the eggs are removed from these solutions after an appropriate interval , membranes are formed round the eggs and a certain number develop into larvae .
In the following year he showed that the effect of these sodium salts can be inhibited by the addition of calcium salts to the solutions .
Accepting the view of HAMBURGER , HoBER , and others that the phenomena of cytolysis are primarily due to an increase in the permeability of the cell surface to ions , LILLIE arrived at the following conception of the fundamental processes which attend the development of the unfertilised Before fertilisation the egg membrane is freely permeable to kations , but only very partially permeable to anions ; hence , the egg membrane must be the seat of an electrical charge which is determined by NERNST'S formula where is the velocity of the kation and of the anion ; is constant ; and the concentration of electrolytes inside and outside the cell .
After fertilisation , however , the value of is eased , so that the surface polarisation is decreased .
It is this loss of surface polarisation which is the fundamental factor in the development of the unfertilised egg .
From various general conclusions LILLIE concludes that no cell can a sustained condition of increased permeability , for such a condition would disorganise the electrolytic contents of the cell .
Hence , after fertilisation , the permeability must fairly quickly be reduced again to its former value .
In the case of eggs which are treated with butyric acid LILLIE holds that the subsequent treatment with hypertonic sea-water effects this decrease in permeability .
LILLIE'S evidence for a change in the permeability of Arbacict eggs when treated with isotonic solutions of neutral salts is , however , unsatisfactory .
He concludes that because the egg surface becomes permeable to enclosed pigment it must also become permeable to electrolytes .
, however , has shown that such a conclusion is quite unwarranted in the case of red blood corpuscles .
In these cells haemoglobin can escape before any of the intracellular electrolytes , and conversely that electrolytes can escape without the loss of haemoglobin .
McLENDON'S theory is less complex , but less comprehensive , than that of LILLIE .
He regards the essential condition for development to be an increase in the AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
483 permeability of the egg to hydroxyl ions and to the ions of carbonic acid .
This simple hypothesis is based upon the following observations:\mdash ; 1 .
Fertilised eggs shrink more quickly than unfertilised eggs in isotonic sugar solution .
Presumably the fertilised eggs are more permeable to the substances exerting the internal osmotic pressure .
2 .
The electric conductivity of the egg increases about 25 per cent. when it is fertilised or made parthenogenetic with acetic acid , indicating permeability to ions .
3 .
When placed in an electric field unfertilised eggs show the phenomena of ' ' anodal\ldquo ; disintegration sooner than the fertilised This theory resembles that of LILLIE in postulating an increase in the of the egg to kations after fertilisation ; the activity of the egg being promoted by the increase in the hydroxyl ion concentration of the egg interior .
The observation that the conductivity of fertilised eggs is distinctly greater than that of unfertilised eggs is at present the most direct evidence in favour of the view that after fertilisation the egg surface is more permeable to ions than before .
I therefore undertook a further investigation of this phenomenon .
METHOD 0F INVESTIGATION .
A conductivity cell was used such as would fit the holder of a small hand centrifuge .
The tube was about 10 cm .
long and 1 cm .
in diameter at its widest part .
The electrodes were two square platinum plates each possessing two equal surfaces of 25 sq .
mm. These were fixed about 5 mm. apart and were carried by two silver wires , which were supported by glass and passed through the stopper of the cell ( see fig. 1 ) .
In a few of the earlier experiments the volume of the eggs was determined by marking their level with a fine pointed grease pencil but in the very large majority of the experiments the tube was also graduated .
This form of conductivity cell has two advantages : ( 1 ) It fits into the holder of an ordinary centrifuge , ( 2 ) the volume of eggs required is small .
The latter point is of great importance , quite apart from the difficulty of obtaining large quantities of eggs .
If too many eggs are enclosed within a tube , it is not only impossible to .
ensure a good percentage of fertilisations by the addition of a small quantity of sperm , but the overcrowding of the eggs interferes with their rate of development subsequent to fertilisation ( i.e. , the rate of division differs very considerably from that of similar eggs in a large bulk of water ; in extreme cases the development ceases at an early stage ) .
In all my experiments , except where specially mentioned to the contrary , the eggs developed normally , although cases more slowly than the controls .
The temperature at which the ents were made never differed much from the room temperature so that it was found possible to keep the ) erature of the eggs constant to within C. by means of the simple thermostat shown in fig. 2 .
The calorimeter was surrounded by a worm tube , through which cold tap water was kept in circulation .
The resistance of the eggs was measured by means of a Kohlrausch bridge and a telephone .
The electrodes were platinised in the usual way with platinic chloride with a trace of lead acetate .
The induction coil was placed outside the room in which .
the experiments were made , and by keeping the electrodes well platimsed it was possible to obtain quite distinct minimal points with an ordinary telephone .
The procedure adopted during the whole of the experiments was as follows .
The ovaries of a perfectly ripe female were shaken into one or more finger bowls containing sea-water .
The ovaries were then removed after five or ten minutes , and sea-water containing the eggs was filtered through a suitable piece of bolting silk .
In this way any loose pieces of ovarian tissue were removed from the eggs .
The latter were then allowed to settle to the bottom of the bowl .
The ripe eggs settled somewhat slowly ; but after a short time sufficient eggs for one experiment could be drawn off in a clean pipette and transferred to the conductivity tube .
The requisite amount of eggs having been so obtained , the tube was filled up with clean sea-water , corked , and allowed to stand a bowl of sea-water until the eggs had again settled sufficiently for the bulk of the sea-water to be removed .
The eggs were then washed once more in clean sea-water .
After two or three such washings all the small fragments of tissue smaller than the eggs were removed , and the tube contained nothing but ripe eggs in clean sea-water .
After washing in this way the eggs settled some- what more readily than when removed from the oyary , owing to the partial removal of the gelatinous ovarian membranes .
In the earlier experiments the conductivity tube containing the eggs was then transferred to the thermostat and left until the bad settled to a definite volume , which could be estimated without any difficulty .
Great care was taken to make the eggs settle uniformly in the tube ; if this is not done measurements of the resistance of the same eggs occupying the same volume fail AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
485 to agree .
It was found possible to collect the eggs in such a way as to obtain uniform readings from repeated observations .
In later experiments the eggs were settled by gentle use of a centrifuge ; such treatment does not hurt the eggs in any way and greatly simplifies the technique .
Whereas the above technique is sufficient for experiments with the eggs of Echinus , it was found to be unsatisfactory for the eggs of those sea urchins which were available at Naples Sphoerechinus , ongylocentrotus , .
If these eggs are settled by gravity it is impossible to obtain resistances of more than 25 ohms owing to the presence of the wide gelatinous membranes which surround the eggs .
It was found , however , that if the eggs are washed for a few minutes in slightly acid sea-water water the gelatinous membranes are entirely removed .
Such treatment does not injure the eggs in any way , and greatly facilitates their subsequent manipulation for the following reasons:\mdash ; 1 .
The eggs settle very much more quickly .
2 .
They are much closer together when settled and therefore give much higher resistances .
3 .
After fertilisation , no fertilisation membranes are formed .
In ] the case of Sphoerechinus the surface of the egg does not ) to change after fertilisation until after the first hour of development .
In the case of the surface membrane of the egg becomes wrinkled , but no wide fertilisation membrane is formed if the washing with acid ater has been suflicient .
4 .
These eggs always settle quite uniformly in the conductivity tube , and successive determinations of their resistance give remarkably coucordant results .
After the volume of the eggs had been accurately determined , some of the seawater was removed from the tube , the electrodes placed in position and the resistance of the eggs determined .
The electrodes were then removed and the tube filled with fresh sea-water ( care being taken not to remove any of the eggs with the electrodes* ) .
One or two drops of a dilute emulsion of sperm were then added and the tube inverted so as to distribute the eggs equally in the sea-water .
For one minute the tube was allowed to stand in the water of the thermostat .
The eggs were then returned to the required volume and the excess of sea-water was again drawn off .
The electrodes were then placed in position and the resistance of the fertilised eggs determined .
After each determination of the resistance of the eggs , the conductivity tube was filled with fresh sea-water and immersed horizontally in sea-water whose temperature never differed from that of the thermostat by more than 1o C. Successive determinations of the resistance of the same lot of unfertilised eggs showed that with careful manipulation the variations of the readings never exceeded 3 per cent. of the total resistance in the case of the eggs of Sphoerechinus , Strongylocentrotus , and Echinus .
With Arbacia eggs the readings were not quite so uniform .
The experimental error is therefore of an order quite different from the much larger difference between the resistances of fertilised and unfertilised eggs .
AND RESULTS .
The variations in the resistance of the must be due to the egg proper and not merely to the fertilisation membrane , since the changes which follow fertilisation follow the same course in those eggs which do not form such a membrane as it does in those which do .
Eggs from which the ovarian membranes had been removed by treatment for half a minute with faintly acid sea-water do not form fertilisation membranes , although they do develop normally .
The conductivity of such eggs always resembles that of eggs which were fertilised in the ordinary way , that is , without previous treatment with acid .
This fact , together with others established by ELDER ( 8 ) and others , shows clearly that the protrusion of a fertilisation membrane is of secondary importance among the phenomena of fertilisation .
The changes in conductivity cannot be due to the presence of free spermatozoa between the eggs , since the addition of as much sperm as was used in any of the experiments to a volume of sea-water equal to the bulk of the eggs does not change the conductivity of the sea-water .
In a recent paper , has brought forward evidence to show that the *When not in , the electrodes were kept immersed in clean sea-water .
In the case of eggs it was found that prolonged washing of the unfertilised eggs with normal sea-water preverltedthc membranes of the fertilised eggs being uded to the usual degree .
In such eggs the.membranes remained more or less closely applied to the surface of the eggs .
AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
487 volume of the eggs of and Asterias decreases after fertilisation .
As this author points out , this discovery is at variance with the observations of other investigators .
There is , however , the possibility that this contradiction is only apparent .
GLASER measured the fertilised eggs immediately after fertilisation , and concluded that the amount of sperm present played a in the amount of change in the volume of the eggs .
Now , when the eggs of Strongylocentrotus lividus are fertilised , there is distinct evidence that the egg is compressed by the contents of the perivitteline space , and the phenomenon is very marked if a large amount of sperm is present .
Within a few minutes , however , the egg resumes its normal spherical shape , if the excess of sperm is removed .
It is impossible to measure the diameter of the eggs when in the contracted state on account of the irregular outline of the egg surface , but all measurements of eggs which have resumed their spherical condition have failed to show any diminution of volume after fertilisation .
It is possible that the loss of this contraction or compression of the egg after fertilisation may account for the slight fall in the conductivity which is sometimes obseryed between 3 and 10 minutes after fertilisation .
That the decrease in the resistance of the eggs after fertilisation is not due to a decrease in their volume is apparent from the following facts:\mdash ; Microscopical measurements failed to reveal any decrease in the size of Echinus eggs after fertilisation .
This result was also arrived at independently by LOEB , McLENDON ( , and CHEVRETON and VLES ( 6 ) , for the eggs of other species .
( b ) Although the decrease in the volume of eggs is much larger than that of and other Echinoid eggs ( GLASER , 13 ) , the change in the resistance of Asterias eggs is much less than that of all the Echinoids investigated .
Direct experiment showed that the currents used to measure the electrical resistance were wholly without effect upon the subsequent course of development .
In order to cover the electrodes about .
of eggs is required .
The volume of sea-water which the conductivity cell can hold is about 12 .
; the effect of these conditions is that when the eggs are re-distributed in the sea-water after the determination of their resistance they are so crowded as to develop at a different rate to control eggs kept in an abundance of water .
The change in rate of development varies with different batches of eggs and with their degree of concentration .
Hence it is impossible this method to determine the conductivity of normal eggs ( i.e. , eggs developing at a normal rate ) at any stated moment .
As , however , the development of the eggs in the conductivity tube is only abnormal in respect to time ( the cleavage divisions are , quite normal but occur at a varying after those in the control ) , it may be concluded that the sequence of eyents in the two cases is the same .
The fact that the resistance can only be determined by concentration of the eggs is an unsatisfactory feature of the method .
We l1lay assume that when the eggs are concentrated at the bottom of the tube , their development very quickly becomes dslayed , until the return of normal conditions ; hence , it is not possible to take a large number of readings during one experiment .
AND ITS BEARING ON fION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
489 Normal sation .
As the fall in electrical resistance which follows normal fertilisation has been already established , it need not detain us long .
The curves ( figs. .3 and 4 ) show the general course of the change .
The resistance in obms is plotted against time .
table illustrates the values observed in case of the eggs of one species .
It is obvious that these curves do not support contention that the increased permeability of the egg , due to fertilisation , only for some 15 minutes after the entrance of the sperm , and then returns to of the unfertilised , if we ashutne , as LILLIE does , that the electrical conductivity of the is ) direct measure of its permeability .
The results of a very large number of , still leave ConS e ) doubt as to the electrical resistance of the between nlinutes after fertilisation .
In certain cases there seems to be fair eyidence of a slight increase of resistance , which is always much less than the initial decrease , and which is followed by a steady and permanent decrease .
On the other hand , other experiments do exhibit such a break in the conductivity curve , and the rebistance of the eggf4 seems to continuously from the moment of ] .
It is doubtful the experimental method adopted is capable of investig ting this point there , owing to the impossibility of obtaining a large of readings during first 15 minutes of development .
VOL. CCVII .
It is therefore perhaps judicious to limit the conclusions to the following cardinal points : The resistance of eggs is very considerably decreased after fertilisation ; ( b ) During the first hour of development ( i.e. including the period of the first cleavage division ) the resistance of the egg never returns to the value of the same eggs before fertilisation .
* The extent of the rise in the electrical conductivity of eggs after fertilisation differs considerably in different genera of Echinoids .
The values for the three Neapolitan genera which were investigated were roughly as follows:\mdash ; Per cent. Strongylocentrotus lividus 36 Sphoerechinus 23 pustulosa . . .
15 If we assume that these figures give an approximate estimate of the .
degree of permeability change which is necessary to allow the eggs to develop , it is interesting to note that , of the three genera , is by far the most susceptible to parthenogenetic agents ; in other words , it is much more easy to induce the eggs of this genus to form fertilisation membranes than is ] ) case with the eggs of Sphoerechinus or .
The artificial parthenogenesis of these two genera has not , unfortunately , been extensively inyestigated at Naples .
LYON ( 37 ) , however , mentions that the optimuln concentration of hypertonic sea-water which effects the initiation of development of Sphcerechinus was 100 water mol .
potassium chloride , whereas the optimum concentration for Strongylocentrotus was 100 water .
potassium chloride .
These observations are , however , based upon a comparatively small number of experiments , and , in view of the variability of the eggs of different females to similar reagents , it is perhaps unwise to lay too much emphasis upon quantitative results .
It must also remembered that the permeability of the eggs of the three genera may alter at a different rate when exposed to the same treatment .
For example , a solution which will cause a of 10 per cent. in the electrical conductivity of Str.ongylocentrotus eggs , might only cause a change of 5 per cent. in that of the eggs of Sphoere chinus , and .
Later it will be seen that this possibility cannot be left out of account .
* A few of my earlior experiments led me to a different conclusion Journ. ' vol. 10 , p. 50 , 1913 ) , but subsequenC work tvith more tory material conviI ) me that the experime1lts quoted were unreliable , AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
491 ARTIFICIAL LOEB has shown that the eggs of many genera of Echinoids can be made to develop parthenogenetically in the following different ways : A. The unfertilised eggs are immersed in 50 c.c. water c.c. butyric acid for minutes .
They are then transferred to normal or slightly hyperalkaline sea-water for about 10 minutes , during which period perfectly normal ' ' fertilisation\ldquo ; membranes are formed round the eggs .
These eggs are then placed in 50 water .
sodium chloride solution .
In this solution the eggs are left for about one hour .
After treatment with hypertonic sea-water the eggs are transferred to normal sea-water , whereupon a variable proportion develop into healthy plutei , which may eventually metamorphose in the normal manner .
B. By placing unfertilised eggs in a solution of saponin in sea-water .
In this solution " " fertilisation\ldquo ; membranes are formed , and unless the eggs are then trans- ferred to fresh sea-water total cytolysis occurs .
If , howeyer , the eggs are removed to sea-water after membrane formation , and are subsequently treated with a suitable hypertonic solution , normal larvae may be obtained .
C. By treating unfertilised eggs with a relatively strong hypertonic solution , and subsequent transference to normal sea-water .
hese methods considered as physical processss are sufficiently diverse , yet they all agree in producing a fall in the electrical resistance of the eggs , It is clear , therefore , that the cycle of deyelopment brought about by al.tificial means is also accompanied by an increase in electrical conductivity .
McLENDON ( the figures of four experiments made with the eggs of variegatus .
Treatment with acetic acid was found to increase the conductivity of the eggs in sea-water 9 per cent. , per cent. , 5 per cent. , and 7 per cent. Table III shows the fall in electrical tance of the eggs of due to treatment with butyric acid .
J. GRAY ON TH ELFCTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY OF ECHINODERM EGGS , After each of these experiments a large percentage of the eggs began to develop .
Unless the hydroxyl-ion concentration of the sea-water ( or va n't Hoff 's solution ) is above a certain value , the extent of the conductivity change does not approximate to that produced in egg by the entrance of a spermatozoon .
AND ITS ARING ON AND ARTIFICIAL In all the above experiments the conditions were kept as uniform as possible ; the length of the exposure of the eggs to the butyric acid solution did not yary more than a few seconds .
The variation in the quantitative changes are , however , not surprising in view of the great variability which is always obseryed in the reaction of eggs to parthenogenetic reagents .
Repeated experiments showed that the resistance of the eggs did not change whilst actually in the butyric acid solution .
The results of the experiments are in entire agreement with the observation of that unless the hydroxyl-ion concentration of the sea-water ( or va n't Hoff 's solution ) to which the are transferred after a treatment with butyric acid exceeds a certain value the eggs do not develop but return to the " " resting condition .
Exposure to a solution of saponin in sea-water similarly decreases the electrical resistance .
AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
495 normal sea-water .
The effect of such treatment upon the electrical conductivity of the unfertilised eggs of Sphoerechinus is shown in the following Tables:\mdash ; For a reliable investigation of the effect of hypertonic solutions after membrane formation , two essential conditions are necessary .
( 1 ) All the eggs must respond to the treatment with butyric acid , otherwise the conductivity of the eggs will be affected by the action of the hypertonic solution upon those eggs which are still in the resting stage .
( 2 ) After the treatment with the hypertonic solution , a large percentage of the eggs must develop normally : otherwise there is no certainty that the effect of the hypertonic solution is a normal one .
As explained above , it is fairly nple to tlIe first ; in fact , the eggs of most females of give 100 per cent. membranes after exposure to a butyric acid solution for minutes .
On the other hand , it is the exception .
to obtain a large number of larvae these after a subsequent treatment with a hypertonic solution .
A large number of experiments were performed in which the number of eggs which developed was only about 20 per cent. In the following experiment , however , practically all the eggs developed into blastulae , the large majority of which were perfectly healthy and normal .
fects of Hypertonic Solutions upon the Conductivity of Eggs .
1 .
The conductivity of normal unfertilised eggs is distinCtly increased by hypertonic sea-water , and this increase takes ) lace while the eggs are actually in the hypertonic solution .
2 .
After artificial membrane formation , the conductivity of unfertilised eggs is unaltered by treatment with hypertonic solutions .
PART ORIGIN OF THE VARIATION IN I propose now to present evidence that the variations in the electrical resistance described in Part I are due largely to chano e in the surface of the eggs .
Changes in the interior of the egg cannot , of course , be , but in one special case it is possible to prove that the change does not the electrical resistance ; namely , when the alkalinity of the egg contents is increased .
According to the decreased resistance after fertilisation is due to an increased alkalinity of the egg contents .
This can be directly tested in the case of the eggs of Arbacia , since the red pigment which they normally contain serves as an indicator .
When the pigment is extracted the colour is found to change to dark purple when precipitated by alkali .
In normal eggs exposed to exceedingly dilute ammonia the pigment changes purple and we may , therefore , conclude with certainty that the egg contents are alkaline .
In spite of this , as Table X shows , the electrical resistance is unchanged .
lt is , therefore , necessary to abandon in its simplest form McLENDON'S hypothesis that changes in the electrical conductivity of the eggs are due to changes in the alkalinity of their contents .
AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
497 It is known from the work of STEWART , HoBER ( 23 ) , and others that the high electrical resistance of red blood corpuscles is due to the impermeability of their surface to ions .
The impermeability is broken down by haemolysins ( STEWART , 52 and 53 ) .
In the following Table I put side by side with haemolysins a list of known parthenogenetic agents .
The parallelism is obvious and suggests that the electrical resistance of an egg , like that of the corpuscles , is controlled by the surface .
The problem may be attacked indirectly .
MINES ( 47 ) has shown that trivalent ions affect the heart beat of Elasmobranchs by altering the permeability of the surface of the fibres to other electrolytes .
I was led by this to investigate the effect of such ions upoIl the conductivity of eggs .
THE POLAIYISING " " IONS UP0N THE ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE 0F THE EGGS .
According to the relation of ions to the membranes of the Elasmobranch permits of their classification into three groups:\mdash ; .
" " Nomadic\ldquo ; ions , , Na , Cl ' , OH ' .
IT .
" " Combining\ldquo ; , e.g. , Ca Sr Ba .
" " \ldquo ; ions , , OH ' , Mg Ce La Cit and other trivalent ions .
' ' The ions } ) oducc their effects by passing from one region to another , their charges , and so setting up differences in potential .
The combining ions are those which form chemical compounds with some constituent of the heart muscle .
The polarising ions modify the electric charge , and thus the ionic permeability of certain surfaces or membranes in the heart muscle , thus affecting in a differential manner the passage through these membranes of the ions If , therefore , changes in the electrical conductivity of the eggs be due to changes in the permeability of their surface membranes to ions , then the electrical conductivity should be affected by exposing eggs to substances which are known to be capable of affecting the ability of artificial membranes ; in other words to such nces as cerium chloride , sodium citrate , etc. The results obtained from a large series of experiments have given very definite results , but it must be confessed that their complete interpretation is difficult .
The energetics of diffusion through artificial membranes is far from clear ( see Appendix TI ) .
It should , however , be clearly understood that definite experimental proof exists to show that the permeability of a membrane is influenced by the presence of polarising ions .
The reason for such alterations is the only point that remains doubtful .
As far as aware the only other ations on the effect of trivalent ions upon the dynamics of living matter are those of MlNES ( , OSTERHOUT ( 49 ) , and Miss DALE ( 6A ) .
As mentioned bove M brought forward strong evidence to show that trivalent ions affect the heart muscles of Elasmobranchs and of other animals by virtue of their electrical } , and he concludes that their effect is to change the bility of the surface membranes to other electrolytes by the degree of aggregation of the surface colloids .
OSTL LHOUT ( has shown that less than mol .
lanthanum nitrate decreases the electrical conductivity of certain vegetable tissues by 265 per cent. , and he refers AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL NOGENESIS .
499 the change to a decrease in the permeability of the protoplasmic surfaces to other electrolytes .
Miss DALE has advanced evidence in favour of extending MINES ' conclusion to the locomotory behaviour of moecium .
In other words , the presence of a very low concentration of simple trivalent positive ions greatly decreases the conductivity of the unfertilised eggs .
This primary decrease in conductivity is , however , not a one .
Figs. 5 and 6 show the general effect of these ions ) the eggs ; it will be observed that the resistance after the initial change gradually falls again , and may ultimately reach the same value as that of the normal eggs .
This secondary fall in resistance is not due to the removal of the trivalent ions from the sphere of action , because the addition of more ceriurrMr lanthanum does not affect the conductivity of the eggs .
The phenomenon is at present inexplicable , but it is not altogether isolated .
The same series of events is described by OSTERHOUT ( 51 ) as being the effect of anaesthetics upon the resistance of plant tissues .
Fig. 7 shows the effect of 1 per cent. ether in sea-water upon the resistance of tissue , and the similarity to figs. 5 and 6 is obvious .
If the concentration of ether is increased , then the maximum increase in resistance is more rapidly attained ( being of the same as with 1 per cent. ether ) , the subsequent decrease in resistance is , and is only attained at the death value of the tissue ( cf. fig. 8 ) .
Also , whereas ) prinlary increase in resistance due to the anaesthetic is on remoyal of the latter , the subsequent fall produced by stronger solut , ions below the normal resistance of the tissue is quite irreyersible ( OSTERHOUT ) .
AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
501 Again , MINES ( 47 ) found that after a short period of rest the heart of Pecten may begin to beat strongly in a perfusion fluid containing mol .
Ce ( see MINES , p. 501 ) .
A. TRoNDLE ( 53A ) found that the effect of light upon the permeability of certain plant cells is not a progressive change , and the data of this author proyide another analogy to the effect of Ce upon the electrical conductivity of echinoderm eggs .
That the electrical resistance of tissues is increased during anaesthetisation has also been shown by ALCOCK ( 1 ) .
He found that the resistance of the sciatic nerve of the frog is increased by 51 per cent. during anaesthetisation in 50 per cent. ether vapour , and that the change is completely reversed on removal of the anesthetia , with low concentration of anaesthetic ; , with medium concentration of anaesthetic ; , with high concentration of anaesthetic .
502 MR. J. GRAY ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIyITy OF ECHINODERM EGGS , The similarity of the effects of anaesthetics and of trivalent positive ions upon the electrical resistance of living tissues is possibly of extreme importance , but further discussion is postponed .
THE EFFECT 0F TRIVALENT NEGATIVE IONS UP0N THE CONDIJCTIVITY 0F UNFERTILISED EGGS .
In order to investigate the effect of such ions upon the eggs , a 20-per-cent .
solution of sodium citrate was used.$ The following Table shows the results of some of the experiments :\mdash ; The solutions used in the expcriments were made by adding a known volume of a 20-per-cent .
solution of sodium citrate to a known volume of sea-water .
As shown by fi , the action of citrate solutions upon the conductivity of the eggs is a continuous process of progressive increase during the first half-hour .
FIG. trating the effect of trivalent negative ions on the resistance of unfertilised eggs of miliaris .
* A solution of this strength has a conductivity somewhat below that of sea-water .
Its freczing point is also lower , but the difference is not sufficient to introduce purely osmotic effects when diluted lvith four times its bulk of sea-water .
The freezing point of sea-water containing .
sodium citrate , prcpared by the addition of the necessary amount of a 20-per-cent .
solution of the salt , is only C. below that of sea-water .
That such a small difference in O.P. does not affect the conductivity of the eggs is readily shown by a comparison between the effects of a short exposure of cggs to the citrate solution and thal of a much longer exposure to the comparatively highly hypertonic solution in other exporime1lts .
AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
503 Eventually equilibrium is attained , and remains unchanged as long as the solution in contact with the eggs remains the same .
From these results it is clear ( 1 ) that the electrical conductivity of the eggs is increased by the presence of trivalent negative ions in the surrounding sea-water ; ( 2 ) that the complex trivalent negative ions have a much less powerful effect on the eggs than have the simple trivalent positive ions .
Whereas the presence of only mol .
cerium ions the resistance of the eggs about 20 per cent. , a corresponding decrease in resistance by citranion is only produced by a solution of mol .
sodium citrate .
In other words , the complex anion is 20,000 times less powerful than the simple kation .
It should be noticed that the decrease in the of the eggs produced by sodium citrate and by hypertonic solutions are not altogether identical phenomena .
In the presence of sodium citrate the resistance of the eggs attain a definite equilibrium , which is completely reversible in certain cases .
The decrease in the resistance of eggs which is due to treatment with hypertonic solutions is not reversible , and there is no evidence of any .
equilibrium being attained\mdash ; in fact , the in.iurious effect on the eggs of prolonged treatment with such solutions suggests that no equilibrium is attained until the cells are dead .
ANTAGONISTIC EFFECTS 0F POSITIVE AND NhGATIVE TRIVALENT IONS .
If the action of the trivalent positive ions is produced owing to the production of a positive charge on some constituent of the egg , then the effect of these ions should be removed by exposing these eggs to a solution containing free hydroxyl ions .
The following experiments show to be the case .
That the increase in bhe conducti , eggs in the alkaline sea-water is due to a removal of the efFect of the ceriu1tt ions , and not to the secondary effects of the cerium ions themselves , is shown by the following facts:\mdash ; 1 .
The increase of the conductivity in the alkaline solution is much too rapid to be accounted for secondary effect of the ceriunl ions .
504 .
MR. J. GRAY ON THE ELECTRICAL 2 .
It has been shown that the secondary increase in the conductivity of eggs in cerium solutions is unchanged by the presence of a fresh cerium solution round the eggs .
If , however , the primary effect of a cerium solution is removed by alkali , then , on addition of a fresh cerium solution , the conductivity of the eggs is again decreased .
The complete alltagonism between cerium ions and alkali is sho un by the following experiment:\mdash ; Resistornce of normal unfertilised eggs ( Sphoerechinus ) in sea-water 130 ohms .
Resistance of same unfertilised eggs in\mdash ; Ce . . . . .
156 , , after 5 mins .
in sol .
Normal sea-water . . . . .
152 , , , , 5 Alkaline sea-water .
N/ lO NaOH . . . . .
125 , , , , 33 Ce . . . . . . . . . . . .
, , , , 6 Alkaline sea-water NaOH ) . . . .
, , , , 19 In normal sea-water recovery from the effects of trivalent positive ions is much slower and not always so complete as that in alkaline sea-water .
A further proof that the effect of cerium ions upon the conductivity of the eggs is due to their electrical charge is furnished by the antagonistic effect between these ions and the trivalent negative ions of sodium citrate .
AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
505 Before commenting on the above experiments , it is necessary to describe the effect of a prolonged treatment of ) eggs with a solution of sodium citrate or alkaline va n't Hoff 's solution .
If unfertilised eggs are treated with an alkaline va n't Hoff 's solution for about an hour , the conductivity of the eggs is practically unaffected by the presence of cerium ions .
VOL. CCVIT.\mdash ; B. 3 X 506 MR. J. GRAY ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIyITy OF ECmNODERM EGGS , Resistance of normal unfertilised eggs of Spcprjchinus in neutral va n't Hoffs solution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
145 ohms .
esistanco of same unfertilised eggs of Alkalins va n't Hofl 's NaOH ) solution .
140 , , after 45 , , , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
134 , , , , 15 Ce . . . . . . . . . . . .
132 , , , , 25 Five mins .
after addition of sperm . . . . .
88 A prolonged treatment with citrate solutions also renders these eggs less sensitive to cerium ions .
These experiments show that the effect of cerium upon unfertilised eggs depends upon the previous treatment to which the eggs have been subjected .
It is clear that the effect of negative ions upon the egg is not altogether reversible by positive ions , if the exposure to the first treatment has been prolonged .
The figures given in the above Table are the maximum effects which were later readings always showed a slight decrease in the effect of the cerium ions .
The same phenomena are exhibited by the experiments with eggs of gylocentrotus ( .
The eggs of Echinus appear , however , to be less sensitive to a prolonged treatment with sodium citrate solutions , as complete recovery usually takes place if trivalent positive ions are applied to eggs which have been exposed to sodium citrate for one hour .
xperiments 1-4 in Table XVI require but little comment , as they show very clearly that the effect of the trivalent positive ions is some inverse function of the time which the eggs have exposed to solution containing negative trivalent ions .
xperiment 5 , however , exhibited a remarkable phenomenon and is therefore quoted below in full .
After the experiment the eggs were transferred to abundance of clean sea-water nd all developed as far as the first mitotic figure and resembled eggs have been subjected to a butyric acid treatment .
Only a few eggs cleaved and these were AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
507 Detads of jriment 5 of Resistance of normal unfertilised eggs in neutral va n't Hoff 's solution 168 ohms .
Resistance of same unfertilised eggs in\mdash ; Alkaline va n't Hoff 's solution . . . .
158 , , after 3 mins .
\ldquo ; \ldquo ; , . . . . .
150 , , 57 , \ldquo ; Resistance of same unfertilised eggs in\mdash ; Ce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
108 , : , , 5 , all irregular .
Repetition of the experiment eggs from other fellJales did not give similar results and only very few eggs showed signs .
of pment .
It is probable that the sudden fall in resistance of the eggs on removal to the cerium solution was quite independent of the cerium ions , and was entirely due to the treatment with the alkaline solution , but the sudden decrease in the resistance is at present xplicable .
That the effect of sodium citrate upon the conductivity is , certain limits , completely reversible is shown the following with the eggs of Echinus acutus .
Ohms .
2.54 Resistance of unfertilised eggs sea-water .
2 .
Solution changed to 10 c.c. water per cent. sodium citrate .
3.0 Resistance of eggs in tion 3.6 . . . . .
3.15 3.30 145 .
5 . . . . . . .
3 .
changed ) Ilormal sea-water .
4.13 Resistance of eggs in sea-water 4.43 Solution lged to water per cent. sodium 4.52 Resistance of , in solution . .
150 4.53 Solution cbanged to .
La in sea-water .
4.55 Resistance of eggs in solution . . .
188 A similar experiment was performed with the eggs of Echinus miliaris .
In this case the recovery in sea-water after treatment with the citrate solution was less complete , so that , whereas the resistance of normal unfertilised eggs of Echinus iliaris was practically unchanged by treatment with lanthanum nitrate , after the partial recovery from the effects of the citrate due to the sea-water , the trivalent positive ions rapidly produced a return of the resistance of the eggs to its original value .
When treated in this way the eggs are once more highly sensitive to the addition of the citrate solution .
Perhaps the most important conclusion to be drawn from these two experiments is that the effect of trivalent negative ions ( citranion ) is slowly removed by normal , but is instantly removed by trivalent positive .
On the whole , prolonged treatment with alkali or citrate is more completely reversible by trivalent positive ions in the case of Echinus than in Strongylocentrotus or Sphoer.echinus .
In the case of eggs belonging to most of the species used in these experiments , there is very fair reement between the effects of different reagents on eggs belonging to different females .
In the case of Echinus , however , the difference between different batches of eggs is very marked .
For example , on June 10 , 1914 , the resistance of the unfertilised eggs of one female was increased by 34 per cent. in the presence of mol .
La On the following day the eggs of another female , collected on the same day and in the same locality as that used on the previous day , were unaffected by the presence of a similar concentration of La It should , however , be mentioned that in the above case there is the possibility of a ' ' physiological\ldquo ; difference between the eggs , due to the conditions under which they were obtained .
On June 9 the eggs were obtained immediately the had spawned , ae and were therefore absolutely fresh .
The eggs used on June 11 were obtained from a female which had been placed in an ice-chest on the previous evening , and which was found to have spawned on examination next morning ; the eggs appeared to be in a perfectly healthy state when examined under the microscope .
A similar variation of the eggs belonging to different females was observed in the effects of hypertonic sea-water on the unfertilised eggs of both Echinus acutus and .
In the large majority of experiments the effect of one hour 's treatment with 50 water was to increase the conductivity of unfertilised Echinus acutus eggs by about 20 per cent. On May 4 , 1914 , the conductivity of the eggs belonging to a particular female were practically unaffected by such treatment .
A similar phenomenon was observed in the case of Echinus miliaris .
On May 11 , 1914 , the of an hour 's treatment with 50 * Except in the two experiments mentioned above , the eggs used for experiments were obtained by transferring the ripe gonads to sea-water .
In the above two cases , however , all the eggs were shed by the animals themselves .
ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
509 water mol .
increased the conductivity by per cent. , whereas on June 10 the eggs of two difl'erent females showed practically no change after treatment with 50 water for one hour .
Such variation between the reactions of different batches of eggs is not surprising in view of a similar variation which is so frequently found by investigators of the effect of parthenogenetic reagents The detection of such differences by means of electrical conductivity determinations.provides a quantitative method of determining such variations , which might conceivably be used for a more complete analysis not only of such variations , but also of the various phenomena of artificial parthenogenesis .
The material available for the present experiments has unfortunately not been convenient for such an investigation .
The most convenient material would be provided by the eggs of some species which can be made to develop by treatment with a simple hypertonic solution , so that it would be possible to detect any correlation which may exist between the amount of electrical change with the percentage of eggs which develop .
The eggs of or Strongylocentrotus might satisfy these requirements , but the present investigations were not sufficiently advanced while the writer was at Naples .
A COMPARISON 0F THE EFFECTS 0F TRIVALENT IONS 0N THE UNFERTILISED EGGS 0F DIFFERENT GENERA AND SPECIES .
In the followin Tables are recorded the resutts of a number of experiments showing the effect of trivalent ions upon the eggs of Sphoerechinus , Strongylocentrotus , Echinus acutus , and Echinus miliaris .
The available data is somewhat limited , but there is , I think , sufficient evidence to show that the eggs of difFerent genera and species show a distinct difference in their sensitivity to the presence of trivalent ions .
*For example , see SHEARER and LLOYD on the reaction of the eggs of Echinus esculentus to parthenogenetic agents ( ' Q.J.M.S. , ' vol. 58 , p. 523 ) .
As far as these experiments show , the order of sensitivity to trivalent negative ions is roughly the reverse of the order of sensitivity to trivalent positive ions .
THE EFFECT OF THE PRESENCE 0F TBTVALENT IONS UP0N THE 0F HYPEBTONIC SOLUTIONS .
In view of the fact that hypertonic sea-water and triyalent positive ioIJR have antagonistic effects upon the conductivity of the unfertilised eggs of Echinus ncutus , a large series of experiments were performed in order to determine whether the effect of hypertonic solutions is inhibited by the presence oflanthanum nitrate .
The results as shown Table XIX are fairly definite , but they cannot , at present , be regarded as being entirely satisfactory .
When the eggs are immersed in a hypertonic solution containing lanthanum there is often a tendency for the eggs to behave irregularly after about half an hour 's duration in the solution .
The hypertonic solution used consisted of water or 10 The action of lanthanum on eggs in such solutions is as follows:\mdash ; 000004 mol .
La usually normal , but sometimes 000008 , , Lggs tend to adhere to glass , but sometimes injured .
000012 , , adhere to glass , nearly always injured .
, A large number of xperiments had to be discarded owing to injury or abnormal behaviour of the eggs .
In the experiments quoted the strength of lanthanum nitrate was nlol .
AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
511 THE EFFECT OF HYDROGEN AND UPON THE CONDUCTIVITY OF For these experiments a va n't Hoff 's solution was used , an examination of fig. 12 shows that the effect of the hydrogen ion upon the conductivity of unferbilised eggs resembles that of the trivalent cerium ion , although its action is less intense .
A concentration of HC1 is required in order to obtain the same effect as mol .
Ce The secondary fall in the resistance of the eggs in acid solutions is probably due to injury of the eggs , for after the experiments the eggs were somewhat unhealthy , although in some cases they deyeloped more or less normally when fertilised in clean sea-water .
512 MR. J. GRAY ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITy OF ECHINODERM EGGS , It is important to note that the action of the cerium ion cannot be attributed to any change in the hydrogen ion concentration of the sea-water , for the addition of 0 .
HC1 to 50 .
of sea-water does not affect the conductivity of the eggs during the period of these experiments .
That acids are unfavourable to growth has been shown by MOORE , ROAF , and , who have also shown that alkalies and alkaline salts have a favourable action on cell-division .
It is interesting to note that the effect of dilute alkalies upon the fertilised eggs of Echinus esculentus ( MOORE , etc. ) is the same as that of hypertonic solutions ( GRAY , 14 ) , viz. , the production of chromatic abnormalities and irregular cell-division .
AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL The results given in the above Table are what would be expected by a comparison with the effects of the citrate ions upon the conductivity of the eggs .
Solution does not injure the eggs in any way .
In solution , however , the tend to aggregate together ; while in solution this condition is very'marked .
Solution , and sometimes solution , renders the unhealthy after one or two hours .
The aggregation of the eggs is usually less marked as the are visibly affected by the alkali .
Solutionl A produces a slow continuous fall in resistance .
to solutions and duces a very rise in the resistance , which is followed rapid ctnd sive fall in resistance .
The final resistance is always lower than that of the eggs at ) of the experiment\mdash ; which explains the figures given in Table XXII .
ec fuotnute to Table XXII .
VOL. CCVII.\mdash ; B. .3 514 MR. J. GRAY ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITy OF ) EGGS , The figures in Column 4 are given as percentages of the resistance of the eggs five minutes after fertilisation .
It is therefore apparent that the conductivity of the fertilised eggs is less affected by the presence of cerium than is the conductivity of the unfertilised eggs .
This might be due to two causes , either the ised eggs are more permeable to Ce than are the unfertilised eggs , or the surface of the fertilised egg is less easily polarised than that of the unfertilised egg .
Ayglutination in the of Strongylocentrotus .
During the course of the experiments a certain number of females of 'S'tron.qyloc'ntrotus were found whose eggs showed a distinct tendency to aggregate together in normal sea-water , after the removal of the gelatinous membranes .
This agglutination was lost in a solution containing sodium citrate , but occurred again on transference to normal sea-water .
These eggs behaved somewhat differently when treated with cerium and with strong kali solutions .
The presence of mo ] .
Ce only lowered the conductivity per cent. , and the addition of more concentrated cerium solutions did not increase this value .
On the other hand , such eggs showed no primary decrease in their conductivity in a strongly alkaline va n't Hoffs solution NaOfI In this solution the conductivity was con .
AND ITS BEARING ON I'ERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
515 tinuously increased , and there was apparently no decrease in the state of aggregation of the eggs .
It would therefore seem that , when these particular eggs were in normal sea-water , they were in the same condition as normal eggs ( that is , eggs which do not agglutinate in normal sea-water ) which have been treated with a cerium solution .
In short , these eggs are in a state of maximum impermeability .
If this is the case , one would expect to find that , when eggs are fertilised , the change in the conductivity would be greater than that of normal eggs .
That this is the case is shown by the following experiment:\mdash ; Ohms .
Resistance of unfertilised eggs . . . . .
184 fertilised eggs , 5 mins .
after fertilisation \ldquo ; , , , , .
In other words , the increase in the conductivity five minutes after fertilisation was per cent. the G'eneral ffects of Trivalent the Behaviour of Fertilised and fertilised E The effect of citrates upon biological phenomena has so far not received much attention .
In 1901 LOEB ( 33 ) observed that the antitoxic doses of sodium acetate , sulphate , and citrate , are in the ratio 1 : 4 : 16 , and came to the conclusion that the poisonous action of these latter salts is due to the negative charges of the anions .
In 1903 SPAULDING ( 51A ) found that , under certain conditions , an exposure of fertilised Echinoderm eggs to sodium citrate solutions favoured the development of the eggs .
More recently , Miss DALE ( 6A ) has shown that sodium citrate affects the behaviour of Paramoecinm by virtue of the negative charge possessed by the anion .
The Relc( between the Effects of tion the Eggs .
It has been shown that the effect of citrate on unfertilised resembles that of fertilisation in that it increases the electrical conductivity of the eggs ; also , a few preliminary experiments support the expectation that sodium citrate may , under certain conditions , function as a parthenogenetic agent .
But whereas .
the effect of the spermatozoon 01 ) the electrical of the egg is quite irreyersible , that of sodium citrate is partially or entirely removed if the are transferred to normal sea-water .
That the two phenomena are elated would appear the fact that exposure to citrate solution , as it were , anticipates a part of the fall in electrical resistance caused by the spermatozoon .
16 .
J. ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIyITy OF ECHINODERM EGGS , In other words the effect of fertilisation upon\mdash ; Normal eggs is to reduce their existence by per cent. Citrated , , , , , , Lanthanum eggs , , , , , , AND ITS BEARING ON FER .
TILISATION AND ARTIFIC]AL PARTHENOGENESIS .
517 he Effect of rtilised artilised A. Fertilispd .\mdash ; The general effect of sodium citrate upon the development of normally fertilised eggs of is shown by the following Table .
No evidence was obtained to show weak solutions of citrate increased the rate of development of the eggs ; stronger solutions the trivalent negative ion is distinctly inhibitive of normal developlnent .
The general effects of solutions were\mdash ; ( 1 ) To prevent the formatiol of the oral processeH .
The remained alive in some cases for 10-14 days , but ar1ns developed .
( 2 ) To cause great , in the skeleton of the plutei .
The irregularities were often much more marked on one side of the than on the other .
AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENOGENESIS .
519 Transference of the larvae from the citrate solutions to normal sea-water tended to prolong the life of the larvae , but the oral arms did not develop , and the skeleton was very irregular .
A few experiments with the fertilised eggs of livid showed that these eggs are killed by a much lower concentration of sodium citrate than the eggs of Echinus B. Unfertilised Eggs.\mdash ; Unfertilised eggs of were placed in the following solutions after the removal of the gelatinous membranes .
The appearance of the eggs was noted after 24 hours .
After about one hour in 50 water per cent. , some of the eggs in the above experiment were transferred to clean sea-water .
The following day 10 per cent. showed signs of epetitions of this experiment with other eggs gave 5-15 per cent. of cleavages\mdash ; but no larvae were obtained .
A. .
The of Trivalent Positire Jons on Since sea-water contains distinct traces of carbonates , a precipitate is when the salts of cerium or lanthanunt added unless the concentrations of the latter are 520 MR. J. GRAY ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITy OF ECHINODERM EGGS , very small .
Thus mol .
lanthanum nitrate in sea-water gives the solution a very appearance of milkiness , in stronger solutions appearance is more marked and minute crystals are slowly deposited .
In order to investigate the effects of the salts upon the development of fertilised eggs , it is therefore necessary to employ an artificial sea-water containing no carbonates .
Ullfortunately the ouly data available are those derived from the use of weaker solutions of lanthanum and cerium in sea-water .
is experiment with eggs was very surprising , since previous observations had shown that if normally reared ulae .
are put into sea-water containing mol .
all movement instantly stops .
The above experiment was repeated several times with identical results .
It was then repeated in a slightly modified form .
A solution containing mol .
was made up , and divided into two portions .
Into one of them ( A ) were put fertilised eggs of centrotus .
After 24 hours the larvae in this solution were quite active , but all movement ceased as soon as they were put into the remainder of the original cerium solution ( B ) .
Either the eggs absorb the cerium the solution , or the salt is precipitated .
B. tilised Eggs .
In a lnol .
solution of cerium chloride in sea-water , unfertilised eggs rapidly agglutinate into clumps , which are only partially resolved on agitating the tube containing the eggs and are on standing .
In a mol .
solution , this phenomena is observed to a much less degree , while in a mol .
cerium solution , AND ITS RING ON TION AND ) I there is practically ) tendency for the eggs adhere to each ) .
Now phenomenon is observed if eggs are put into an alkaline olution .
alkalinity is moderately high , J..c\fnof ; mDC c.c. va n't tion NaOH .
The agglutination ( the eggs is } observed in acid solutions , concentrated acid solutions the hnve a very decided tendency to to the vessel them .
effect of Ce and s OH ' solutions upon the eggs exactly similar to their effects living The change in conductivity is quite independent of the Tbus mol .
Ce tion fertilised hinus but the conductivity ) I. ] cent. On the other hand , the ) o11 unfertilised troat mol .
sodium citrate lowered original value ( a change of per cent. ) and no tion of Although the conductivity increases in a cerium solution , th i , s no ig of the gglutinated condition being lost .
alkaline solutions , , the agglutinated condition does appear to lost .
about half an .
It is , ] eyer , important to note that if the from the cerium to normal sea-water , they all rtilise and develop norlnall although { hey utinated .
From alkaline ution , the , do not develop ormally } fertilised in sea-water .
The phenomenon of agglutin ation o1lly obsery with .
( strongly Ikalin ) used is that- the phenomenon is with In , solution the ' be very little }cted a they tend to than in normal ) mol .
} ] tinct to nqps , cntle ation .
stronger unhealthy .
of ) I il the to solution by positive ) ) jour of the red ) of ) , .
that complete explanation by assumption ions pulsion b yhic they normal l rface .
* In the of i$ ) ions used in the ) of VOL. I. the ) of the eggs the presence of lanthanum or cerium salts it is possible to conclude that the trivalent ions affect the eggs by modifying the electrical charge on their surface .
far as has been investigated , takes place quite normally in solutions low concentrations of cerium .
The eggs of Er require a higher concentration of triyalent positive ions in order to produce ation than do the eggs or locentrotuv .
1 two cases the of the latter speciPs agglutinated in pure sea-water , and aved t to relatively alkaline yant as though ) bad ) been treated ivalent positive radicle ( cf. p. 514 ) .
Tt is important to note that a concentration of triyalent ions is required in order than unfertilised eggs ; frolll which it legitimat to lh charge on t , he surface of the egg is increased The on.v of in the electric charge of egg-surface due to .
( the of that definite re pole of .
Afte ] ' howeve is ersed , and the becon f$ negative .
) lasts for about inuf , the blastorlisc .
again ) ) positiv ; it lnains thus for ab minutes , inally , earance of fil( positively charged .
of A. ( i ) do the eloplnent of ] if the present in lo tration s ( ii ) valenl egati ion.q .
The ted and skeleton ) ) iv ) the of B. ( i ) Triyalent ) itive ions in low concentrations do not affect unfertilised apart atHi n them fo gglutinate .
This agglutination is instantly removed by sodium provides evidenc to that thess ions alter the electrical charge tho of } that the charge on the surface of the egg is lisa r AND BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND IFICIAL P ( ii ) Trivalent negative ions in high concentration cause cytolysis , and in cases artificial parthenogenesis of the eggs of Echinus bIARy AND CoNCLlJSIONd .
Both natural and artificial fertilisation cause a fall in the electrical resistance of the Echinoderm egg .
But whereas an excess of alkali in the interior of the egg does not affect the resistance , exposure to solutions containing trivalent positive or trivalent negative ions , ions , or hydroxyl ions , does decidedly change the resistance .
Since such solutions are known to polarise membranes , we may , at rate , provisionally conclude that the variation in the electrical resistance of the eggs is determined by the polarisation of surfac the surface change defining the permeability of the surfaces to electrolytes .
The purely physical nature of this theory has in some respectffi distinct advantages ovel .
the alternative chemical view advanced by .
It obviates the reference to ( membrane-forming substances\ldquo ; and tauces , \ldquo ; which are of a purely speculative value .
It ives a definite conception of those essential " " critical\ldquo ; changes in the egg to which adherents to LOEB'S theory refer .
These changes are regarded , short , as changes in the surface energy of the egg ( using the term in its widest sense and including changes in perlne bility ) .
Support is given to this hypothesis from the follo ving considerations:\mdash ; 1 .
The relation of the egg cell to such yaried reagents as saponin and trivalent ions is identical with that of the blood corpuscles of 2 .
The explanation given to the effects of trivalent ions upon the electrical resistance of the eggs is entire aoCOl.d to that which is ently accepted for the effect of these substances upo11 the -beat ofasmobranchs , etc. rrhe work has been carried out the biological stations of Plymouth and Naples , and I take this of my thanks to all those have provided me with a constant and abundant supply of material .
The expenses of this research have been partly frayed by the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society .
I owe considerable gratitude to many physiologists in Cambridge and elsewhere , and to them I offer my very sincere thanks for much criticism and advice .
The revision of the original lIlanuscript was very kindly undertaken by Mr. W. B. HARDY , to whom I am indebted ) much aluable assistance .
Prof J. GARDINER I have rec-lived iling e assistan ce .
T. RAY ON ELECTRICAL OF ECHiNObERM APPENDIX 1 .
NOTE 0N EFFECI1 STRONG AND WEAK BASES ON ANIMAL TISSUE .
As well known , LOLB regards the efficiency of all bases , when used as parthenoagents , as dependent upon the amount of base which diffuses into the egg .
He has shown that for certain eggs , bases such as ammonia are more efficient sodium or ammonium hydroxide ; HARVEY ( 16 ) , however , that the veak )ases diffuse into the egg very apidly , whereas strong bases do llot .
AmmoIlia tions enters the egg in sufficient quantities to render the to .
In a solution containing NaOH , however , the same amount of alkali does not ) enetrate the egg until the external solution is kaline to destroy the egg .
In weaker solutions of NaOH the interior of the egg is ) acid to indicators .
If these alkalies act upon the egg by diffusion the interior , solutio of ammonia and a solution of NaOH , each of which is just strong enough to eIldel .
the egg interior alkaline to neutral red , should have the same upon the egg .
This , however , is the case , as such a solution of ammonia does not destroy the egg , whereas the corresponding solution of NaOH causes instant degradation of the ] It is deubtful whethe neutral red other indicators which are absorbed by the egg are in solution ; it is likely that they are with some protein base .
evertheless , neutral red , even in a state of combination , is a very sensitive indicator for ches in hdrox , and therefore the amount of alkali which penetl.ates from a solution consisting of 50 va n't solution 5 NaOH must be extl.aordinarily minute .
, as HENDERSON ( 18 ) has shown , protoplasm is admirably adapted to maintainiug a constant hydroxyl ion concentration , it must contain carbol ) and phosphate radicles , so that any small mount of lkali e the fails to change the hydroxyl ion concentration of cell contents .
The { and 5U npon and llechauislls of evidence to ltihow that weak strong bases on the cell .
When ranules of the Medusae are stained with neutral red , the nimals placed in the above solutions , muscular ctnd neural responses continue ient N has entered to affect the .
of the granules , but they in NaOH before the granules are affected .
This fact very extremely of should satlle eli'ect solutio of c.c. IIo solution not The pigment of eggs not the , hich i the colout ' of this ) the ] AND ITS BEARING ON FERTILISATION AND ARTIFICIAL PARTHENO ENESIS .
525 strongly to the conclusion that these two alkalies differ profoundly in their modes of affecting the cell .
There is , in fact , no evidence whatever that a strong base ever enters a living cell .
LOEB'S dictum that bases are efficient in the proportion in which they enter the cell is , therefore , opposed to experiment .
As far as I am aware Prof. LOEB has not advanced any other explanation beyond that quoted above .
The theory advanced in this paper does , however , give a consistent and practical explanation of all these facts .
Free alkali increases the permeability of the egg surface or membrane to other electrolytes , and its action is antagonised by acid or by bivalent metals in exactly the same way as artificial membrane is affected by these substances ( see GIRARD , , anl APPENDIX II .
NOTE ON NERGETICS OF DIFFUSION .
The diffusion of a salt through a charged membrane is an exceedingly complicated process .
The work of BAYLISS ( 5 ) and others makes it quite clear that the nature of the membrane itself is a very important factor .
The most definite statements in regard to the energetics of diffusion through membranes are those of GIRARD ( 11 ) .
This author maintains tha the rate of diffusion of a salt through a living membrane is dependel ) upon the .
which exists betweell the two sides of the membrane , and he offers both theoretical and experimental evidence in support of his theorem .
Without a complete analysis of his argument , it is perhaps worth while to quote one experiment ( mentioned by HoBER(24 ) , p. 309 ) .
On one side of an artificial membrane is placed a neutral solution of magnesium , while on the other is pure water ; the amount of salt which diffuses through the membrane in half all hour is determined .
salt solution is then replaced by one of exactly similar strength , but of slightly higher hydroxyl ion concentration ; on the thount of salt which now diffuses through the membrane in half hour , the quantity is found to be very more than in the previous experiment .
the other haIld , the ion concentration is rendered lower than of " " neutral\ldquo ; solution , amount of salt which passes through the is less per cent. of amount which diffuses from the neutral solution .
A consideration of work , when lnbi n with the results of PERRIN'S experiments upon the of surface by ions , provides ctive interpretation of the ibed in this paper , nd directly uf llany of the phenomena of artiiicial ) .
At present , vever , it is unwise to lay too much stress upon the isolated ) eliments of .
The theory of this author is extremely simple , and its application to the phenomena present under discussion is capable of receiving proof .
I hope to } ) these tests as soon as possible , and therefore refrain from further present .
526 MR. J. GRAY ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIyITy OF ECHINODERM EGGS , BIBLIOGRAPHY .
( 1 ) ALCOCK , N. H. " " Action of Anaesthetics on Living Tissues 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc B , vol. 77 , p. 267 ( 1905 ) .
( 2 ) Id , m. " " Action of Anaesthetics on Living Tissues.\mdash ; Part II ' Proc. Roy .
Soc B , vol. 78 , p. 159 ( 1906 ) .
( 2A ) BACHMAN , E. L. , and RUNNSTROM , J. " " Der osmotische Druck wahrend der mbro .
von Rana temporar ' Pfluger 's chiv , ' vol. 144 , p. 287 ( 1912 ) .
BACHMAN , E. L. " " Die Einwirkung der Befruchtung auf den osmot .
Druck der von Bufo vulgaris und Triton cristatus ' Pfliiger'sArchiv , ' vol. 148 , p. 141 ( 1912 ) .
( 4 ) BAYLISS , W. M. The Nature of Enzyme Action , 'London(1911 ) .
( 5 ) Idel7t .
" " The Properties of Colloidal Solutions 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc B , vol. 84 , pp. 81 and 229 ( 1911 ) .
( 6 ) CHEVRETON , L. , and VLHIS , .
" " La Cinematographie du Developpement embryonnaire de l'Oursin bbrotus l\ldquo ; 'Archiv .
de Zoologie Exper .
, ' vol. 8 , series 5 , p. 449 ( 1911 ) .
( 6A ) , D. " " On the Action of Electrolytes on Paramoecium .
of Phys vol. 46 , p. 129 ( 1913 ) .
( 7 ) DONCASTrR , L. , and GRAY , J. " " Cytological Observations in the Early Stages of Segmentation of Echinus Hybrids ' Q.J.M.S. , ' vol. 58 , p. 483 ( 1913 ) .
( 8 ) ELDER , J. C. " " The Relation of the Zona pellucida to the Membrane of gylocentrotus , \ldquo ; Archiv f. Entwick .
Mech vol. 35 , p. 145 ( 1912 ) .
( 9 ) GALEOTTI , G. " " Uber die electrische Leitf.ahigkeit der tierischen Gewebe ' Zeit .
f. Biologie , ' vol. 43 , p. 289 ( 1902 ) .
( 10 ) Idem .
" " Never Untersuchungen iiber die electr .
Leitfahigk .
und den osmot .
Druck der tierischen Gewebe 'Zeit .
f. Biologie , ' vol. 45 , p. 64 ( 1903 ) .
( 11 ) GIRARD , P. " " la Mecanisme Physico-chimique de l'HemiperIneabilite des ellules Vivantes aux Electrolytes 'Journ .
de Phys. et Path .
Gen vol. 12 , p. 471 ( 1912 ) .
( 12 ) , O. C. " " On Inducing Development in the Sea Urchin , together with Considerations on the Initiating flect of Fertilisation 4 Science , ' vol. 38 , p. 446 ( 1913 ) .
( 1.3 ) Idem .
" " The Challge in Volume of Eggs and Eggs at Fertilisation 'Biol .
Bulletin , ' vol. 26 , p. 84 ( 1914 ) .
( 14 ) , J. " " The Effects of Hypertonic Solutions on the Fertilised Eggs of chinus , \ldquo ; ' Q.J.M.S. , ' vol. 58 , p. 447 ( 1913 ) .
( 1 , A. W. " " Artificial Parthenogenesis in Starfish Produced by a of Amer .
Journ. Phys vol. C , p. 296 ( 1912 ) .
ITS ON AND ]NESiS .
527 ( 16 ) HARVEY , E. N. .
Studies ou the Pel.meability of Cells Exp. Zool. , ' vol. , p. 507 ( 1911 ) .
( 17 ) Idem .
" " A iticism of the Method of terlIlining Cloability for Alkalies 'Amer .
Journ. Phys. , vol. 1 , I ) .
) .
, L. J. , and , O. F. " " Concerning the Neutrality of plasm .
Journ. vol. ) ( 1907 ) .
( 19 ) VAN HERWER ) , M. A. " " les xydones danH Organes enitaux et Larves de ' ' } .
de p. 359 ( 1913 ) .
( 20 ) fdern .
" " Snr les xydones , " " ' . .
' .
( 21 ) HoBER , R. ' sorpt ion ltlt Pflugels ' ( 1904 ) .
ldem .
Messungen der higkeit ellen PHug]'H ' vol. , 1 . .
' : fahre die ] in 1 Zellen esseJl , \ldquo ; Archiv , ' , 1 ) .
I89 ( 1911 ) .
( 24 ) Idenv .
'Physikalische emie d.he .
( 25 ) HYDL , 1 .
H. ' : Differences in l'utential ) \ldquo ; Amer .
Journ. Phys. , vol. ) ( 26 ) LILLTE , .
" " ] in neability , ' Biol. Bull .
, vol. , p. I88 ( 1909 ) .
( 27 ) Ider .
' : iology of ) \mdash ; -1I .
1 ) .
( 1910 ) .
( 27A ) .
' Physiology of .
I I , vol. .
( 28 ) .
' : Physiology of .
-I rphologv , vol. 22 , . .
( 29 ) .
Physiology ision .
' vol. I 5 .
p. 23 ( 1913 ) .
( 30 ) Idera .
" " The of ation lrritable Tissnes to aneH , ltne , . .
( [ of ionh Hyptertonic by Anaesthetics ] ' , p. 591 ( 1911 ) .
( 32 ) LOEB , 1 .
Artificial ] ertilisntjon .
' .
( 83 ) Idem .
titoxic of lon Function of , : ' ' .
.Ionrn .
Phys. .
Il I . . .
J. GRAY TH RICAL CONl ) CHINODERM EGGS , , I. .
BFUTNHiR , } .
" " ber an der unversehrten nnd tzte Oberflache nnd tierischer Organ \ldquo ; 'Biochem . . .
' die Bedeutung .
Lipoide ' die ntstehung von Potentialunterchieden der .
Organ 4 Biochem. Zeit vol. .
ASTLNEV .
" " inge i befruchteteu und nchtet , ' fiir .
Mech. , vol. 35 , p. 555 .
P. .
( t38 ) micH ofDivision.\ldquo ; 'Amer . .
Id em. 'Ho ility allow evelopmelJ t of the : ' Pro { .
Biol. .
eability ( .
the Fro Tuly , 1914 .
( 41 ) UN J. F. , and P. H. How do lsotonic odinm C nd other olletic OxidatioJ l in .
( 42 ) , A. P. Artificial ) ) duced 1 Shock Lmer .
Jourll .
Phys. , ] .
) .
( 4.3 ) , O. " " iiber die yitalen Oxydain heIn .
eits .
, p. 246 .
( 44 ) .
R. : ' iufluHH auf die elektrische Ladung von einigen roblemen der Kolloidchemie nnd Biologie ' Beihefte , ' vol. p. 191 ) .
40 ) ' trolytes , ' .
Mar. Biol. Assoc. .
( 46 ) .
" " kction of Lanthanunl , etc. , lons on the Frog 's Heart , \ldquo ; .
Phys. , ' vol. , p. 327 .
( 47 ) ldem .
On the elations to ectrolytes ( tho of ifferent Species of \ldquo ; .Iourn .
of Phys. , vol. 4 ] ) . .
( 48 ) MOORL , B. , \ldquo ; H. , { ' On the ffects of Alkalies Acids of Acid Growth Cell Division in the Fertilised Eggs of \ldquo ; Proc. Roy .
, vol. 77 , .
( 49 ) OSTERHOUT , T. .
' Reversible Permeability produced Electrolytes ' } ) , ' , ol . .
( !
ldem .
' ) of Li ] . . .
' ' The of ) ility , ' vol. I ) .
Ill .
AND ITS BEARING ON FL ARTT } ) ( 51A ) bnmnn iilit .
of Fertilised rehin to there , , and some \ldquo ; ' Biol. Bull. .
' vol. 6 , ) .
( 52 ) STEWART , G. N. " " The of Haemogobi and Electrolytes of the Coloured Corpuscles when Blood is Journ. of Pby , p. 211 ( 1899 ) .
( 58 ) Idem .
of ' Pl .
( 53A ) , A. " " die } \ldquo ; ' . .
( 54 ) WARBURG , O. " " ) die in Seeigelei ' Zeit .
) hysiol . .

