April 11 , 1850 .
PROFESSOR OWEN , Esq. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
Lieut.-Colonel Sykes 's paper , entitled " Discussion of Meteorological Observations in India , " was resumed and concluded .
The author adverts to a former paper " On the Meteorology of theDeccan , " published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1835 , and after referring to the conclusions at which he arrived in that communication , states that , in the discussion of the meteorological observations whichform the subject of the present paper , and which were made over a very extended area , at different heights , some being hourly and running through several years at the same station , it is very satisfactory to find that they fully establish the accuracy of the former deductions .
He remarks that , as some of the observations now discussed were hourly records continued through considerable periods of time , an opportunity has been afforded of investigating abnormal conditions , which the former limited number of diurnal observations did not permit ; and gives the following review of what appears to be normal and abnormal conditions .
The annual and daily range of the barometer diminishes from the sea-level up to the greatest height observed , 864-0 feet at Dodabetta , from a mean annual and mean daily range at Madras of 0'735 and 0'122 respectively to 0410 and 0'060 at Dodabetta ; the annual range would appear to increase , about and beyond the northern tropic , as the annual range at Calcutta ( not by hourly observations ) is 0'911 ; but the diurnal range is somewhat less ( 0*115 ) than at Madras .
At no one of the places of observation , even taking the maximum pressure of one year with the minimum pressure of another year , does there appear to have been a range of pressure equivalent to an inch of mercury ; nevertheless in thie Cyclones , or rotatory storms , there occurs at times a range of pressure of nearly two inches of mercury within forty-eight hours ; but it is shown from a comparison of the simultaneous records on board ship , where these great depressions were noted , with the records at the observatories on shore , that the great depressions occurred within very limited areas .
The author had formerly shown that the times or turning-points of ebb and flow ( if the term be permitted ) of the aerial ocean , were occasionally retarded or accelerated , although the neans fixed the turning-points within certain limit hours ; but he was not then aware that in the ebb or flow of the foir daily tides , they ever retrograded or halted in their onward or retiring course .
The hourly observations now show that abnormal conditions are of no infrequent oceurrence , -that the tides at times flow or ebb for four , five , six or even seven and eight hours ( one instance at Aden of nine hours ) , -that frequent instances occur of retrograde movements for short periods of time , as if the tide had met with a , check and been turned back ; and at the turning-points there are numerous instances of the atmosphere being stationary for a couple of hours .
The maximumr pressure of the atmosphere is in the coldest months , December or January , but the mininmuum pressure is not in the hottest months , but in June or July .
The barometric readings , when protracted , show a gradual curve from December or January descending to June or July , and then ascending again to December or January , there being an occasional interruption in October or Novenber .
As the curves at Madras , Bombay and Calcutta , correspond , and as Madras has *no south-west monsoon , while Bombay has a south-west monsoon , and is destitute of the north-east monsoon of Madras , it would appear that the general movements of the atmosphere are little influenced by any conditions of its lower strata ; but the curve of pressure would seem to have some relation to the sun 's place in the ecliptic , The normal conditions of daily temperature are , that it is coldest in India at sunrise , and hottest between the hours of 1 and 3 P.M. ; but the tables sho\w many aberrations from this rule .
The regular increment or decrement of mean monthly heat from the maximumr or minimum period is somrewhat remarkable , as the curve is independent of the south-west monsoon at Boimbay and the northeast monsoon at Ma1dras ; and the passage of the sun twice over both places does not derange the cutrve .
The anomalies of the annual mean temperature of ' iMadras , Bombay , Calcutta and Aden , not diminishing with the increase in the latitude of the respective places , are pointed ou , and numerous instances are given of the very great power of the slanting rays of ' the sun beyond the tropic .
As is the case with the barometric , so do the heat tables indicate that the annual and daily ranges of the thermometer diminish , with the elevation of the place of observation above the sea-level , the elevated table-land of the Deccan however being an exception to this rule .
At i sahabuleshwur , at 4500 feet , the temperature of the air was never below 4,5 with a maximum and miniimum thermometer ; and at Dodabetta the temperature of the air was never below 38 ?
'5 , nevertheless at both places ice and hoar-fiost were frequently found on the ground at sunrise , resulting from the separate or conjoined effects of radiation and evaporation .
After stating the want of confidence he has in observations of the wet-bulb thermometer as a means of determining the dew-point , and that he greatly prefers Daniell 's hygrometer for this purpose , the author observes that he will not venture to say more with respect to normal conditions of moisture in India than that the air of the sea coast has always a much greater fraction of saturation than the lands of the interior ; and that the elevated plateau of the Deccanl is periodically subject to very high degrees of dryness .
Some very unexpected phenomena with reference to the distribution of rain are pointed out .
It is found both on the sea coasts and on the table-lands of the Deccan , that within very limited areas , the differences in the fall of rain may be very great .
With nine rain-gauges employed in the small island of Bombay in the months of June and July , in the monsoon of 1819 , the quantity collected in the different gauges ranged in July from 46 inches to 102 inches , and in June from 19 inches to 46 inches .
At Sattarah , in the Deccan , with three rain-gauges within the distance of a mile , they differed in their contents several inches from each other ; and at Mahabuleshwur and Paunchgunny , nearly on the same level , the latter place being only eleven miles to the eastward of the former , the annual fall of rain was 254 inches and 50 inches respectively !
The normal conditions are , that there is a much greater fall of rain on the sea coasts than on the table-lands of the Deccan , but that the Ghats intervening between the coasts and the table-lands have three times the amount of the fall on the coasts , and from ten to fifteen times the amount of the fall on the table-lalids of the interior ; the paucity of the fall of rain at Cape Comnorin and in the mouths of the Indus would also appear to be normal conditions .
The tables must be referred to for the winds ; the normal states are those of the south-west and north-east monsoons , and the influence of the latter is periodically felt at the height of 8640 feet at Dodabetta , which height would appear just at the upper surface of the stratum of air constituting the south-west monsoon ; but hourly observations for lengthened periods are necessary at Dodabetta , to determine what really are the periodical winds at that height .
Fromn the points other than those between south and west , and north and east , there is also at the several stations a certain amount of periodicity in the winds , the winds that are common to different stations having only a slant more or less at the different stations ; for instance , the south-west and north-west winds of Bombay blowing in the summer months in Calcutta incline rather to be south and north winds , than south-west and north-west winds ; but the author observes that to be enabled to speak with any precision upon this branch of the meteorology of India , and indeed upon most other branches with a comprehensive and philosophical object , hourly observations are necessary , -simultaneously taken with previously compared instruments by zealous observers ; and having the records in a form common to all the observers , so as to admit of rigid comparisons:-when this is done , not only in India but in Europe , meteorologists will be in a better condition to generalize and propound normal conditions , than the state of our knowledge at present would justify .
The author states that he is indebted to that very able and zealous meteorologist , Dr. Buist of Bombay , for the protracted curves of pressure of the baromaeter appended to his paper .

