" On the adaptation of different modes of illuminating Light-houses , as depending on their situations and the object contemplated in their erection .
" By William Henry Barlow , Esq. , in a Letter addressed to Peter Barlow , Esq. , F.R.S. , and communicated by him .
The letter of Mr. W. H. Barlow , addressed to hisfather , in which the paper is contained , is dated Constantinople , March 14th , 1837 , and states that the experiments which he made with the Drummond light , and other means of illuminating Light-houses , and of which he now communicates the results , were undertaken at the request of the Turkish Government , with the view of placing lights at the entrance of the Bosphorus from the Black Sea .
The object of his inquiry is to investigate the principles on which the illuminating power , resulting from the employment of reflectors , and of lenses , depends ; and the most advantageous application of that power to the purposes of Light-houses .
In discussing the relation which exists between the illuminating power and the intensity of an artificial light , he observes that the former is proportional to the quantity of light projected on a given surface at a given distance ; and that the latter is dependent on the quantity of light projected by a given area of the luminous body on a given surface at a given distance .
Hence the intensity of a light multiplied into its surface is the measure of the illuminating power , whether the light proceed from one or from several luminous bodies : and the illuminating power is equal to that of a sphere of light , whose intensity and apparent surface are equal to that of the light itself at any given mean distance .
Within a certain limit of distance , the property of light which produces the strongest impression on the eye , is its intensity ?
but when the light is so remote that the angle subtended by it at the eye is very minute , as is generally the case in Light-houses , the intensity of the impression made on the retina is proportional only to the illuminating power .
The mathematical investigations of the author lead him to the conclusion that all reflectors and lenses of the same diameter have the same illuminating power when illuminated by the same lamp ; and that by diminishing the focal distance , and intercepting more rays , the illuminating power is not increased , but simply the divergence , and consequently the surface or space over which it acts .
The author then proceeds to inquire into the comparative utility of lenses and reflectors , and arrives at the inference that the advantage gained by the employment of the former does not arise from their superior perfection as optical instruments , but from their using the light more economically , in consequence of their producing less divergence of the rays , both horizontally and vertically , and illuminating a much smaller space in the horizon .
Rules are then deduced for the application of lenses and reflectors in Light-houses , according to the particular situations in which they are placed and the purposes they are intended to 4 &lt; 75 serve .
With this view , the author divides Light-houses into three classes : the first comprising Beacon or Warning Lights , placed in order to prevent the approach of vessels , and which consequently can never be nearer than three or four miles j the second being Guiding or Leading Lights , placed to guide a vessel , and therefore admitting of a very near approach j and the third including those which , according to the respective directions in which they are seen , have both these duties to fulfil .
In the first we require great il ?
luminating power , and a long duration of the brightest period , with a small angle of vertical divergence ; in the second , less illumina ?
ting power , but a larger angle of vertical divergence are requisite , while the duration of the extreme brightness is of minor importance 5 and in the third , all these properties , namely , great illuminating power , a long duration of the brightest period , and a large angle of vertical divergence , are necessary .

