432 Messrs. J. G. M'Kendrick J. Dewar on [ June 18 , From these results it is evident that the ice under examination was very far from being an homogeneous body ; and , indeed , nothing else could be expected , when it is borne in mind that the ice in question owes its existence , not only to the bond fide freezing of sea-water , but also to the snow which falls on its surface and is congealed into a compact mass by the salt-water spray freezing amongst it .
The ice formed by freezing sea-water in a bucket was found to have formed all round the bottom and sides of the bucket , and forming a pellicle on the surface , from which and from the sides and bottom the ice had formed in hexagonal planes , projecting edgewise into the water .
The water was poured off , the crystals collected , washed with distilled water , pressed between filtering-paper , and one portion melted .
It measured 9 cub. centims. , and required 4 cub. centims. silver solution , corresponding to 0*0142 gramme chlorine , or 1*5780 gramme per litre .
The other portion was used for determining the melting-point .
The thermometer used was one of Geissler 's normal ones , divided into tenths of a degree Centigrade , whose zero had been verified the day before in melting snow .
The melting-point of the ice-crystals was found to be \#151 ; 1'*3 .
The temperature of the melting mass was observed to remain constant for twenty minutes , after which no further observations were made .
In the same way the melting-point of the pack-ice was determined .
The fresh ice began to melt at \#151 ; 1 ' ; after twenty minutes the thermometer had risen to \#151 ; 0'*9 , and two hours and a half afterwards it stood at \#151 ; 0'*3 , having remained constant for about an hour at \#151 ; 0'*4 .
Another portion of the ice rose more rapidly ; and when three fourths of the ice was melted , the thermometer stood at 0 ' .
These determinations of the temperature of melting sea-water ice show that the salt is not contained in it only in the form of mechanically enclosed brine , but exists in the solid form , either as a single crystalline substance or as a mixture of ice- and salt-crystals .
Common salt , when separating from solutions at temperatures below 0 ' , crystallizes in hexagonal planes ; sea-water ice , therefore , may possibly have some analogy to the isomorphous mixtures occurring amongst minerals .
XV .
" On the Physiological Action of the Chinoline and Pyridine Basest By John G. M'Kendrick and James Dewar , Edinburgh .
Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , E.R.S. Received June 11 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) It is well known that quinine , cinchonine , or strychnine yield , when distilled with caustic potash , two homologous series of bases , named the pyridine and chinoline series .
Bases isomeric with these may also be 1874 .
] the Action of the Chinoline and Pyridine Bases .
433 obtained by the destructive distillation of coal , or from Dippel 's oil , got from bone .
Greville Williams has pointed out that chinoline obtained from coal-tar differs in some respects from that yielded by cinchonine .
In this research the authors endeavoured to ascertain ( 1 ) the physiological action of the various members of the series ; ( 2 ) whether there was any difference in this respect between the members of the series obtained from cinchonine and those got from tar ; and ( 3 ) whether , and if so , how , both as regards extent and character , the physiological action of these bases differed from that of the original alkaloidal bodies .
The bases in both series are difficult to separate from each other ; but this has been done as far as possible by repeated fractional distillation .
The salt employed was the hydrochlorate .
This , dissolved in water , was introduced by a fine syringe under the skin of the animal .
The action of chinoline was tested on frogs , mice , rabbits , guineapigs , cats , dogs , and man ; but as the effects were found to be similar in all of these instances , the majority of the observations were made on rabbits .
The experiments with the other substances were made on rabbits and frogs .
The physiological action of hvdrochlorate of chinoline was first examined .
Its action was then compared with that of the hydrochlorates of the cbinoline series of bases distilling at higher temperatures , including such as lepidine , dispoline , tetrahiroline , \amp ; c. In the next place , the physiological action of the pyridine series was studied , beginning with pyridine itself , and passing upwards to bases obtained at still 'higher boiling-points , such as picoline , lutidine , \amp ; c. Lastly , the investigation was directed to the action of condensed bases , such as dipyridine , parapi-coline , \amp ; c. ; and the effects of these substances were compared with those produced by the members of the chinoline series and among themselves .
The following are the general conclusions arrived at:\#151 ; 1 .
There is a marked gradation in the extent of physiological action of the members of the pyridine series of bases , but it remains of the same kind .
The lethal dose becomes reduced as we rise from the lower to the higher .
2 .
The higher members of the pyridine series resemble in physiological action the lower members of the chinoline series , except ( 1 ) that the former are more liable to cause death by asphyxia , and ( 2 ) that the lethal dose of the pyridines is less than one half that of the chinolines .
3 .
In proceeding from the lower to the higher members of the chinoline series , the physiological action changes in character , inasmuch as the lower members appear to act chiefly on the sensory centres of the encephalon and the reflex centres of the cord , destroying the power of voluntary or reflex movement ; while the higher act less on these centres , and chiefly on the motor centres , first , as irritants , causing violent convulsions , and at length producing complete paralysis .
At the same time , while the reflex activity of the centres in the spinal cord appear to be inactive , they may be readily roused to action by strychnine .
434 Rev. H. F. C. Logan on the Calculus of Factorials .
[ June 18 , 4 .
On comparing the action of such compounds as C9 H7 N ( chinoline ) with C9 H)3 N ( parvoline \amp ; c. ) , or C81IU N ( collidine ) with C8 H13 N ( couia , from hemlock ) , or C10 H10 N2 ( dipyridine ) with C10HUN2 ( nicotine , from tobacco ) , it is to be observed that the physiological activity of the substance is , apart from chemical structure , greatest in those bases containing the larger amount of hydrogen .
5 .
Those artificial bases which approximate the percentage composition of natural bases are much weaker physiologically , so far as can be estimated by amount of dose , than the natural bases ; but the Jcind of action is the same in both cases .
6 .
When the bases of the pyridine series are doubled by condensation , producing dipyridine , parapicoline , \amp ; c. , they not only become more active physiologically , but the action differs in kind from that of the simple bases , and resembles the action of natural bases or alkaloids having a similar chemical constitution .
7 .
All the substances examined in this research are remarkable for not possessing any specific paralytic action on the heart likely to cause syncope ; but they destroy life either by exhaustive convulsions , or by gradual paralysis of the centres of respiration , thus causing asphyxia .
8 .
There is no appreciable immediate action on the sympathetic system of nerves .
There is probably a secondary action , because after large doses the vasomotor centre , in common with other centres , becomes involved .
9 .
There is no difference , so far as could be discovered , between the physiological action of bases obtained from cinchonine and those derived from tar .
XVI .
" On the Calculus of Factorials .
" By the Rev. H. F. C. Logan , LL. D. Communicated by Professor Cayley , F.R.S. Received November 10 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) Our present knowledge of what is called pure analysis has for its concrete basis the general theory of powers .
This science the author might , after Wronski , sanctioned by Lagrange , have called algorithmic , but he prefers giving it the designation Calculus of Powers .
The shnple functions whose properties and relations it is the object of this latter calculus to determine are , first , the three direct functions or algorithms , zn , az , sin z ; secondly , their three inverse functions or algorithms , z\#187 ; ( or Vz ) , loga z , sin-1z .
The author proposes to establish a new branch of analysis or algo-rithmie , which is based upon the general theory of factorials , and in which zn/ ^Az replaces zn .

