]\gt ; 1885 .
] The Form of the Wave Surface of Quartz .
409 5 .
That occasionally , though rarely , of rapidly succeeding nervous impulses may be only incompletely effected within the merve-cells of the spinal cord , or may not occur at all .
In these cases results similar to those of Frank and Pitres are obtained .
A more detailed account of these experiments will shortly be published in the " " Jotlrnal of Physiology .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanR ordered for them .
Professor Lamb ( electsd 1884 ) was admitted into the The following Papers were read : \mdash ; I. " " An Experimental Investigation into the Form of the Wave Surface of Quartz By JAIIES C. McCoNNEL , .
Communicated by R. T. GLAZEBROOK , M.A. , F.R.S. Recelved Novembcr 9 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an account of a number of measurements of the well-known " " dark rings\ldquo ; of quartz .
Each ring is due to : wave being retarded in the quartz behind the other by an integral number of wave-lengths , so the measurements give the directlont through the plate of quartz corresponding to a series of known retardations .
The relative retardation is , especially in a crystal ' weak double-refracting power like quarbz , mainly dependent on the distance ween the two shects of the }vave surface .
Thus my observations really give the separalion veen the two sheets at ious points , and it is in this separation that the peculiarities 1 : quartz are most strongly marked , and the various expressions put forward by theory most videly ergent .
With a plate cut at right angles to the , I obtained values the separation from to being the angle between 1 ' wave normal and the axis\mdash ; and with a plate cut the axis I obtained values from An obvious danger in this mode of invigting the wave .
XXX1X .
tl1ick .
From these figures I concluded that the second expression was the correct one , and that .
There is a considerable discrepancy in the case of the first ring , of which two possible explanations are given in the paper .
Cauchy gives , where and are the wave veloities ppendicular to the optic axis .
Lommel gives Kettler , , Sarrau , , The other five , MacCuIlagh , Clebsch , Lang , Boussinesq , and Voigt , the first form of expression and give Form Surface of Thus Sarrau alone succeedR in explaining the ; satisfa torily .
' the values of , I calculated on Sarrau 's theoly what valne of was to give the retardation observed in each ring , and obtained follows:\mdash ; The obsel.vations on the plate cut parallel to axis gave\mdash ; . . . . .
In this last set the rdation amounted to about 800 so that the esponding to the two lines were considerably rated , and the bands seen were consequently ill defined .
Fortunately , however , a angulal ' error only a small change in , so that these resuIts are .
more accul.ate than ot the other two sets .
For rotatory term is negligible , and Sarrau 's is duced to the simple Huyghenian construction .
So our observations show that for the Huyghenian tion represents the surface in quartz with great accuracy .
From to there is a slight but persistent increase of with .
It is in the paper that this may be satisfactorily accounted for by using more general form of Sarrau 's surface , .
Here is the wave velocity and ) , constants , depending on the powel .
Up to this point we have supposing and are llegligible .
If now we makc , we find that Sarrau 's theory agrees with obsel.vation throughout within the limits of expel.imentalel.ror , evell the case of the first ring .
The observations were in the Cavendish bl.idge , during the montlJs of NIarch and Juue , 1885 .
For full details ac to the apparatus , the plates of quartz used , mode of observation , the precautions necessary , the eflects , and calcuIations , reference must be made to the p } )

