111 .
'"On the Lines of the Solar Spectrum .
" By Sir D)AVID BREWSTER , K.H. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and Dr. J. H. GLADSTONE , F.R.S. Received January 26 , 1860 .
( bstract .
) In a paper in the Transactions of the IRoyal Society of Edinburgh for 1833 , Sir David Brewster stated that he had examined the lines of the solar spectrumn , and those produced by the intervention of nitrous acid gas , and had delineated them oil a scale four times greater , and in some parts twelve times greater than that employed in the beautiful map of Fraunhofer .
None of these drawings , however , were published at the time ; they were increased by frequent observations continued through succeeding years ; and now having been collated , arranged , and added to by Dr. Gladstone , they form the diagrams accompanying this paper .
The figures conisist of1st .
A map of the whole spectrum 58 inches long , and exhibiting about 1000 lines and banids .
This map irieludes a great prolongation of the spectrum at the least refrangible end , before A , with a series of banids and lines not hitherto described .
2nid , 3rd , 4th , and 5th .
Enlarged delineations of the portions of the spectrum between A and B , and betweeni E and F , exhibiting additional lines , with still more magnified views of the groups a and b. 6th .
A map of the two extremities of the solar spectrum as observed by Dr. Gladstone about no'on-day at midsummer , consequentlv when the sun was at its greatest altitude .
This shows several barnds between A and B , and a series of lines in the lavender rays extending as far as 'A .
Becquerel 's N , and corresponding evidently with the maps published by him and by Professor Stokes , with the addition of finer lines .
Yet this map represents the extreme spaces of the spectrum where there is rno effect on the organ of vision , while that of M. Becquerel represents the want of chemical action , and that of Professor Stokes the absence of fluorescent power .
7th .
A map of the " atmospheric lines " compiled from the independent observations of the two authors .
These lines and bands are visible only when the sun is rising or setting , that is to say , when his beams traverse a long stratum of our atmosphere .
In some cases they are merely the deepening of bands seen at any time , in other cases they are bands which appear for the first time when the sun is close to the horizon .
Professor Piazzi Smyth has represented some of these lines in his delineations of the spectrum as observed from the Peak of Teneriffe , whence he had the advantage of seeing the sun at an altitude of -I 10 .
The most remarkable of the atmospheric lines are situated in the orange and yellow spaces , and one band just beyond D is discernible in the diffused light of a dull day at any hour , though it covers what is about the brightest part of the prismatic image obtained from direct sunshine .
The western sky after sunset exhibits these phenomena in a striking manner , and with some variations that do not appear to depend altogether on the absence or presence of moisture , although when the sun looms red through a fog these lines also make their appearance .
They are in no respect due to the mere reduction in the quantity of light .
The dispersion and absorption of the more refrangible rays by the atmosphere , and by fogs , smoke , and such media as dilute milk and water , is a quite independent phenomenon .
8th and 9th .
Enlarged views of A and B , when the light is acted upon by a long passage through the atmosphere .
10th .
A map of the spectrum , exhibiting on a large scale the dark lines and banids which were seen by Sir David Brewster when nitrous acid gas is interposed betweeni the prism and the source of light .
Their position is identified by the insertion of the principal lines of the solar spectrum .
They differ considerably from a smaller drawing of the same by Professor W. A. Miller , who employed a deeper stratum of the red gas .
The light of the moon , which is only that of the sun reflected from her surface , exhibits all the principal lines from about B to H , and no fresh ones ; and when the luminary was near the horizon , the more prominent atmospheric lines were detected .
The green colour was observed to extend a little beyond F in the spectrum of moonlight , and the space between G and H appeared lavender or lavender-grey instead of violet .
Ill respect to the origin of these lines , it is conceivable that the light when emitted from the photosphere itself is deficient in these rays , or that they are due to albsorption by the atmosphere of the sun , or by that of the earth .
The first of these suppositions scarcelv admits of a positive proof .
If the second be true , it might be expected that the light from the edge of the solar disk would exhibit more of these absorption bands than that from the centre , which must have traversed a smaller amoulnt of atmosphere ; but such was not found to be the case .
The third supposition is favoured by the fact that the atmosphere has unquestionably much to do with the manifestationi of many of these lines , and by the analogy of the bands produced by nitrous acid gas , bromine vapour , and other absorbent media .
The expe-imentum crucis of observing an artificial light through a long space of air was attempted by means of the revolving light on Beachy Head , as seen from Worthing at a distance of twenty-seven miles .
It gave a negative result ; but on account of the great difficulty of detecting slight breaks in a faint thread of light , no great relihanec is to be placed on the experiment .
A similar doubt rests on the authors ' observations of fixed stars , and on the non-recognition by Fraunhofer of the ordinary lines in the light of Sirius and Castor , while on the other hand he did detect D and 6 in that of other stars .
The origin of these lines is still an open question .
The spectra of artificial flames sometimes exhibit bright lines coincident with the dark spaces of the solar spectrum .
Thus the yellow band in the flamnes of soda , and several other substances , is identical in refraiigibility with D ; but the most remarkable case is that of charcoal or sulphur burnt in nitre ; the spectrum shows three very promiinent linies , two of which coincide with A and D , while a faint red line appears at B , and a group between it and A. A map is also given of the bright lines , principally orange , that make their appearance when nitrate of strontia is placed on the ignited wick of a spirit-lamp .

