380 Prof. Owen .
On the Gigantic Land-lizard .
[ Feb. 3 , II .
" Description of some Remains of the Gigantic Land-lizard { Megalania prisca , Owen ) from Australia .
Part III .
" By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received January 20 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author describes additional parts of the Megalania , reconstructed from fossils exhumed by Mr. George Fred .
Bennett , at the same locality as the subjects of Part II , and subsequently transmitted .
They were found about thirty feet distant from the spot where the cranial fossils were imbedded , and are deemed by their discoverer to be parts of the skeleton of the same individual .
The recognisable restorations constitute the termination and a detached annular segment of the bony sheath , with one enclosed vertebra , of the tail .
The average thickness of the sheath 's substance is one inch ; the coalesced portion includes three segments ; and , save the last , these with the antecedent detached segment support osseous conical processes , in structure resembling the horn-cores of the cranium , but of larger dimensions .
Each segment supports two pairs of such solid cones or cores .
The transverse diameter of the antepenultimate segment taken across the tips of a pair of cores is eleven inches ; the same diameter of the area of such annular sheath is five inches ; the vertical diameter of the exterior of the sheath is five inches and a-half .
These dimensions support Mr. Bennett 's conclusion as to their relation to the skull ; and , supposing the lizard 's body originally entombed not to have undergone a dislocation affecting the two extremities now brought to light , their relative distance agrees with the length of the animal , estimated from proportions of previously described vertebras .
Detailed descriptions , with figures , of the parts of the horn-bearing tail-armour are given , and comparisons are subsequently pursued in examples of recent and fossil Reptili and , provided with similar caudal armature .
Illustrations of these and of the parts of Megalania compared accompany the paper .

