201 Studies of Photo-synthesis in Fresh-water Gaidukov , N. , ' Dunkelfeldbeleuchtung und Ultramicroscopie in der Biologie und in der Medizin ' ( 1902 ) , Jena , Fischer , 84 pages .
Graham , Those .
, " Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis , " 'Phil .
Trans. , ' vol. 151 , pp. 183-224 ( 1861 ) .
Graham , Those .
, " On the Properties of Silicic Acid and other Analogous Colloidal Substances , " 'Trans .
Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 2 , pp. 318 , 327 ( 1864 ) .
Hardy , W. B. , " Structure of Cell Protoplasm , " ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 24 , pp. 158-210 ( 1899 ) .
Hardy , W. B. , " The Mechanism of Gelation in Reversible Colloidal Systems , " ' Journ. Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 4 , pp. 254-273 ( 1900 ) .
Kiihne , W. , 'Tiber das Protoplasma , ' Leipzig , Engelmann , 158 pages ( 1864 ) .
Leblond , E. , " Le passage de l'etat de gel a l'etat de sol dans le protoplasma vivant , " 'C .
R. Soc. de Biol. , ' vol. 82 , p. 1150 ( 1919 ) .
Leblond , E. , " L'6tat de sol dans ses rapports avec l'activite fonctionnelle du protoplasma , " ' C. R. Soc. de Biol. , ' vol. 82 , p. 1220 ( 1919 ) .
Marinesco , G. , " Forsch .
iiber d. kolloid .
Bau d. Nervenzellen und ihre erfahrungs-gemass Yeranderungen , " ' Kolloid-Zs .
, ' vol. 11 , pp. 209-225 ( 1912 ) .
Mott , F. W. , " The Bio-Physics and Bio-Chemistry of the Neurone , " ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' September 28 , pp. 780-784 ( 1912 ) .
Price , S. Reginald , " Structure of the Plant Cell by Dark Ground Illumination , " * Ann. of Botany , ' vol. 28 , pp. 601-632 ( 1914 ) .
Sherrington , C. S. , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 55 , p. 161 ( 1894 ) .
Studies of Photo-synthesis in Fresh-water Algce.\#151 ; 1 .
The Fixation of both Carbon and Nitrogen from the Atmosphere to form Organic Tissue by the Green Plant Cell .
2 .
Nutrition and Growth produced by High Gaseous Dilutions of Simple Organic Compounds , such as Formaldehyde and Methylic Alcohol .
3 .
Nutrition and Growth by means of High Dilutions of Carbon Dioxide and Oxides of Nitrogen without Access to Atmosphere .
By Benjamin Moore , F.R.S. , and T. Arthur Webster .
( Received January 30 , 1920 .
) ( From the Department of Applied Physiology , Medical Research Committee .
) The two most primaeval and most fundamental chemical processes for living organisms are those two in which their living substance is synthesised from inorganic sources with uptake of energy .
By one of these carbon is built into organic compounds , starting with the oxidised carbon dioxide of the vol. xci.\#151 ; B. R Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
atmosphere and utilising the energy of sunlight .
The source of the inorganic nitrogen , which in the second is likewise built into organic forms in the amino-acids and proteins , is more obscure , and has in the course of 150 years led to much disputation .
In the present and succeeding papers evidence will be adduced that the source of the nitrogen utilised by the plant does not lie in the soil ( although a luxury or luxus supply may be given from the soil ) , but in the air , and that the reaction by which the atmospheric nitrogen and oxygen are made reactive is a photo-synthetic one , in which the energy of sunlight is absorbed and converted into chemical form as nitrites in the green cell .
This view places these two processes of carbon and nitrogen assimilation upon the same basis , and make them coeval in the process of evolution ; this , as will presently be pointed out , must have been the case , in order that any living organism could ever have appeared upon the earth .
The importance of this question of the fixation of nitrogen has induced much study of it and led to many polemics , and it is interesting how invariably the weight of scientific authority has been upon the wrong side .
Eminent men , supporting error unconsciously with negative experiments , have stated that the nitrogen was obtained from the soil and never by the leaves from the air ; less-known men , backing their statements by positive proofs , were on the other side , but the eminence and authority of their rivals was too much for them , and so it comes about that in this matter we still almost universally believe and teach " the thing that is not .
" It was Priestley himself , the discoverer of the like process for carbon assimilation , who in 1771 first asserted that plants were able to absorb the nitrogen of the air , and Ingenhousz shortly after endorsed this statement .
But this earlier view was contradicted , first by de Saussure , and later by Woodhouse , Senebier , and then by the eminent agricultural chemist , Boussingault , in Erance , and the no less eminent Laws , in England .
Yille , in France , stoutly maintained that plants absorb nitrogen from the air , and his findings were confirmed by a specially appointed Committee of the Acad6mie des Sciences .
Boussingault repeated his own experiments with the utmost care and every precaution , and again obtained negative results .
This was later confirmed in an elaborate series of researches made by Laws at Bothamsted ; and the eminence and great authority of these two distinguished men settled the controversy in their favour for a generation .
Experiments that we have ourselves made in the course of the present investigation , as to the growth of the seeds of higher plants ( mono- and dicotyledons ) in sand and water cultures , upon media free from compounds of Studies of Photo-synthesis in Fresh-water Algce .
203 nitrogen , have convinced us that the experimental results of these observers were correct , but their deductions profoundly erroneous .
The seedlings we obtained were dwarfs , although they flowered and seeded , and they assimilated scarcely any nitrogen .
This does not by any means settle the problem ; it only proves that , so far as the higher plants are concerned , this is an abortive method of experimentation .
If the conditions of enviroment are such as to make any feeble growth pathological , and if the dry weight of the plant scarcely exceeds that of the seed from which it grew , it is scarcely to be expected that there should be an increase in nitrogen .
On the other hand , had the seeds grown into anything like normal plants , it would have been an unthinkable monstrosity in nature that carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen should go up without any accompanying increase in the nitrogen .
It has been shown by Jamieson ( l ) , in several species of higher plants , that when a minimal amount of nitrogen is supplied , these grow , increase in weight , and form far more combined nitrogen both in soil and plant than has been supplied in original soil and added media .
These experiments of Jamieson 's were carried out with the utmost care , attention being paid to every possible source of gain or loss of nitrogen .
Moreover , they are supported by several other series of observations , such as gain of nitrogen in aquatic plants with no soil roots , growth of large trees rooted in clefts in basaltic and granitic rocks , where the total nitrogen in the soil could not afford sufficient for one annual crop of leaves , analysis for nitrogen of plants found growing in hard mortar in walls where the amount of nitrogen available , except from the atmosphere , was practically negligible .
A careful perusal of the wealth of facts published by Jamieson in the * Annual Reports of the Aberdeen Agricultural Research Association , ' against which there are only to be set these negative results of Boussingault and Laws , is convincing to us as to the positive solution of the problem in favour of the assimilation of nitrogen from the air by the green cell .
These results have been confirmed by Mameli and Pollacci ( 2 ) at Pavia ; they are reinforced by the experiments in this paper upon Fresh-water Algae , and also by others shortly to appear made upon Marine Algae .
Our own approach to this problem has been from a different point of view from those who have preceded us ; they have been engaged in its consideration in relation to the bio-chemistry of the plant , or its importance in nutrition in agricultural chemistry ; we have been investigating the matter from the point of view of the primaeval origin of living organisms , before there was yet anything so complicated as a green cell upon the earth , and when organic compounds were first being synthesised from inorganic sources .
The minutest micrococcus visible under the microscope contains organic Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
nitrogenous compounds in the form of proteins ; it is probable that the ultra-microscopic particles , called filter-passers , which can pass through a Chamberland filter and yet can reproduce themselves in organic media , and transmit diseases , also contain organic nitrogenous substances .
Their very specific reactions show these ultra-microscopic germs to be highly organised systems , on the path from the inorganic to the organic .
It is hence futile.to seek at the level of bacteria for the origin of the organic ; the first stage must have been an inorganic colloidal solution-aggregate , capable of utilising sunlight and of building up on its surface or in its meshes organic substances as a forerunner for the still ultra-microscopic living cell .
The powers of such a synthesising colloid in evolving more complex forms of matter would soon have been exhausted had it not been able to fix nitrogen as well as carbon from its environment .
This power of nitrogen fixation , as evolution proceeded , must necessarily have been passed on to the more highly organised forms as these arose , for without such assimilative power they could not survive in a fresh world containing no ready-formed organic food .
Just as in carbon fixation , at a certain stage in evolution , a luxus method of fixation was evolved in the chloroplast of the green cell , which was able to work at a higher velocity and use longer wave-lengths of light than the simpler inorganic colloid which preceded it , so in the case of nitrogen , the slow union of nitrogen and oxygen to form oxides of nitrogen , induced by sunlight , in inorganic systems , became replaced by more rapid transformers in the unicellular green plant ; and when organic matter began to accumulate , still another luxus channel was opened by those bacteria and other unicellular organisms which can use the supply of energy of decaying non-nitrogenous matter to build up nitrogenous compounds , utilising atmospheric nitrogen for the purpose .
Examples of such cases of luxus fixation are the azoto-bacter living free in the soil and the nitrogen-fixing bacteria in the tubercles of the rootlets of the Leguminosse .
It is obvious , however , that there existed no decaying organic matter at the first dawn of the organic , and that Leguminosse and all plants living in symbiosis with nitrogen-fixing organisms are late creations in the evolution of life .
Interesting and of great practical importance as are these symbioses of a carbon-fixing organism with a nitrogen-fixing organism subsisting upon it or upon its dead products , it is logically quite clear that they cannot have formed the origination of life and are only by-paths of evolution .
One of the earliest organisms must have possessed the dual function united in a single cell , or solution-aggregate , of fixing both carbon and nitrogen .
Approaching the subject from this aspect , we have examined the simplest unicellular algae , and have found that they do possess this dual function .
Studies of Photosynthesis in Fresh-water Algce .
205 In order to obtain as pure air as possible , the exposures and growths were made in the open air at Heron 's Lodge , Heronsgate , Chorley Wood , Herts .
The house is about 1| miles from the railway line , stands on high ground at an elevation of about 400 feet , and possesses a large lawn , in the middle of which all the experiments , except the first , were made .
The air was tested daily for nitrites by starch and potassium iodide papers , and nitrites were nearly always present .
At the conclusion of the experiments , the growths and waters were taken to the laboratory of the Department , then situated at the Lister Institute , and there analysed for content of nitrogen by the Kjeldahl method .
The experiments were made in the spring and summer of 1918 , in the months of April to August inclusive .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; Commenced April 15 , finished August 5 .
We took two clear glass flasks of Jena glass , each of 1000 c.c. capacity , and provided with ground glass stoppers .
These were almost completely filled with water from a clear stream near the house .
One was filled up to the glass stopper , and then the stopper was inserted , so that the contents of the flask were completely shut off from the air .
The other flask was filled so that the water stood in its neck about 4 cm .
from the top ; the glass stopper was not inserted , but instead a loose plug of cotton-wool was used .
Over this a piece of fine muslin was placed and tied round the neck of the flask with thread ; air , accordingly , had access to the contents of this flask .
The glass-stoppered flask is a control to give the amount of nitrogen present at the outset plus any that can possibly be formed in absence of air .
The two flasks were placed outside on the ledge of a first-floor window , facing almost due west , so that direct sunlight was only obtained for a few hours in the afternoon .
Care was taken to give equal chances to the two flasks by reversing their positions on the ledge every two or three days .
Also a small beaker was inverted over the cotton-wool , to prevent contamination by rain .
The flasks were not inseminated with any organism , but left to develop their crops naturally .
On May 2 a distinct green growth appeared in both flasks , slightly greater in the glass-stoppered one .
On May 7 the open flask shows a distinctly greater growth than the stoppered one .
In direct sunlight bubbles of gas are evolved from both , but most from the open flask .
May 14.\#151 ; Growth in the stoppered flask has stopped , no gas bubbles are given off in sunlight , but there is a brisk effervescence in the open flask , and the growth is obviously increasing .
May 20.\#151 ; All growth is stopped in the closed flask , and the growth has turned brown and flocculent .
But the growth in the open flask is healthy and increasing , and gives off bubbles in sunlight .
Frequent observations were taken till the conclusion on August 5 , but for brevity Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
these may be omitted .
The growth in the open flask remained green and healthy to the end .
No fresh growth started in the stoppered one , and at the end it had only a very few brown flocculi from the initial effort , ere its small store of dissolved carbon dioxide and nitrogen became exhausted .
The contrast at the end between the two flasks was most marked .
Frequent examination with the microscope , through the wall of the flask , of the growing clumps of green organisms , showed the presence of only two types of round-celled unicellular algse .
One of these was smaller than the other and of a brighter green , and was identified as Chlorella ; the other was of about twice the diameter , not so regularly spherical , and of a brownish-green colour .
There were no Diatoms or other motile green organisms .
No mycelium or other evidence of fungi were seen , and the absence of any turbidity at the end showed there was no appreciable development of bacteria .
Drops examined at the end showed no bacterial growths .
Blank experiments on the water used showed that it contained about 1 mgrm .
per litre of amino-nitrogen , and about 0'3 mgrm .
per litre of nitrogen as nitrite and nitrate .
In addition to this control , there is the control of the stoppered flask contents .
.The contents of the two flasks were analysed on August 5 .
The water in each , slightly acidified with sulphuric acid to prevent any loss of amino-nitrogen , was evaporated down almost to dryness ; then in each case the growth was added ; destruction with sulphuric acid followed , and the nitrogen determination was made by the ordinary Kjeldahl 's process .
The results were that the open flask contained 5'00 mgrm .
of nitrogen , while the stoppered flask contained only 1/ 95 mgrm .
A third flask of transparent silica , containing the same water , which had been exposed during the entire period of the experiment to such bright and direct sunlight as was available , developed no growth whatever ; probably because the cells were destroyed by the intenser light and shorter wave-lengths .
The water in this flask was examined similarly to the two above , and yielded 1/ 80 mgrm .
per litre .
There is thus a distinct and quite unmistakable gain of 3'05 mgrm .
, which has no other conceivable source than the atmosphere .
It may be pointed out that this weight of nitrogen roughly corresponds to about 100 mgrm .
of dried algae , or to 500 mgrm .
, or about half a gramme , of moist-plant .
It is an increase in nitrogen , lying many times outside the limits of error of the analytical methods employed .
j Experiment2.\#151 ; Commenced May 31 , 1918 ; terminated September 9 , 1918 .
This experiment was carried out in a series of twelve screw-stoppered fruit preserving jars , called " Kilners , " each of about 850 c.c. capacity .
These jars are of pale-green bottle-glass , and possess a flat flange at top , Studies of Photosynthesis in Fresh-water Algce .
207 over which is placed a flat rubber band ; on this is placed the glass cover , provided with a flat flange to come in apposition .
An air-tight union is obtained by means of a metal screw-top working on a glass screw-thread moulded on the outside of the wide neck of the jar .
It was hence possible to keep certain of the jars in connection with the atmosphere by merely covering with a tied-on cap of lawn , and in others to screw down the lids and shut off access to the atmosphere .
Each jar received 200 c.c. of tap-water , the supply being Kickmansworth water .
This is a surface water containing a small amount of calcium salts , but otherwise a pure , good water .
Each jar was next inseminated with 2 c.c. of a dilute stirred up suspension in water of an algal growth which had been developed by self-growth in a small muslin-covered jar on the west window .
The amount of nitrogen introduced in this insemination was infinitesimal , and , in any case , its amount , as well as any trace in the 200 c.c. of tap-water , can be accounted for by deducting the average small amounts of nitrogen found in Nos. 1 , 3 , and 4 , which really serve as controls , the net increases in the others then show the favouring action on nitrogen fixation of the various procedures .
After the addition of the 200 c.c. of tap-water and the 2 c.c. of algal , suspension in all twelve cases , each was next treated as noted in the schedule below , and afterwards they were either kept closed with glass lids screwed down , or covered with fine lawn only , and were kept in light or darkness as noted .
Darkness was secured in a wooden shed close alongside .
Light meant full exposure to daylight , on the middle of the grass lawn , except at mid-day in the hot weather , when a muslin shade was thrown over , and tin sheets placed loosely on top to protect from excessive light and heat , which are fatal to algae .
In order to save space in tabulation the amounts of nitrogen found by the Kjeldahl determination carried out at the conclusion of the experiments are here placed opposite the description of the treatment of each jar:\#151 ; No. 1.\#151 ; Tap-water and algae only , glass lid screwed down , kept in light .
Nitrogen = 0'3 mgrm .
No. 2.\#151 ; Tap-water and algae only , no glass lid , top covered by fine lawn , kept in light .
Nitrogen =1*6 mgrm .
No. 3.\#151 ; Tap-water and algae only , screwed down , no glass lid , kept in darkness .
Nitrogen = OT mgrm .
No. 4.\#151 ; Tap-water and algae only , covered by fine lawn , kept in darkness .
Nitrogen = 03 mgrm .
No. 5.\#151 ; Tap-water , algae , 2 c.c. of 5 per cent. Na2HP04,12H20 0'05 per cent , of Na2HP04,12H20 ) lawn cover only , kept in light .
Nitrogen = 8T mgrm .
Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
No.6.\#151 ; Tap-water , algae , 0*05 per cent , of Na2HP04 screwed down glass lid , kept in light .
Nitrogen = 1*0 mgrm .
No. 7.\#151 ; Tap-water , algae , 0'05 per cent , of Na2HP04 , 0'05 per cent , of Na2N02 , lawn cover only , kept in light .
Nitrogen = 12'3 mgrm .
No. 8.\#151 ; Tap-water , algae , 0'05 per cent , of Na2HP04 , 0'05 per cent , of NaN02 , screwed down glass lid , kept in light .
Nitrogen = 0'7 mgrm .
No. 9.\#151 ; Tap-water , algae , 0-05 per cent. Na2HP04 , 005 per cent. NaN02 , formaldehyde vapour at high dilution supplied from side tube as described below , glass lid screwed down , kept in light .
Nitrogen = 3'8 mgrm .
No. 10.\#151 ; Tap-water , algae , 0'05 per cent. Na2HP04 , no NaN02 , formaldehyde vapour , glass lid screwed down , kept in light .
Nitrogen = P0 mgrm .
No. 11.\#151 ; Tap-water , algae , 0'05 per cent. Na2HP04 , 0-05 per cent. NaN02 , dilute methylic alcohol vapour supplied from side tube , glass lid screwed down , kept in light .
Nitrogen = 7'4 mgrm .
No. 12.\#151 ; Tap-water , algae , 0-05 per cent. Na2HP04 , no NaN02 , dilute methylic alcohol vapour from side tube , glass lid screwed down , kept in light .
Nitrogen = IT mgrm .
Notes on Growth.\#151 ; These were taken at frequent intervals and were concordant throughout , so as to save space only two samples will be given .
It may be noted that in the course of growth the experiment was demonstrated to many scientific friends , and exhibits made at meetings of societies , such as the Bio-Chemical and Royal Microscopical Societies , and it was admitted that the differences in growth existed ; this is confirmed by the nitrogen determinations now given at the conclusion of the experiment .
July 1 , 1918.\#151 ; No. 1 , no growth ; No. 2 , slight green growth ; Nos. 3 and 4 , no growth ; No. 5 , growth in clumps ; No. 6 , one spot of growth only ; No. 7 , strong dark green growth all over bottom and sides , best of series ; No. 8 , slight growth ; No. 9 , slight growth , better than No. 8 ; No. 10 , no growth ; No. 11 , fair growth ; No. 12 , no growth .
July 20 , 1918.\#151 ; No. 1 , no growth ; No. 2 , fair growth , quite obvious difference between Nos. 1 and 2 ; Nos. 3 and 4 ( in darkness ) , no growths ; No. 5 , good growth in thick discrete clumps ; No. 6 , only one colony commencing to degenerate ; No. 7 , the best of the series .
Abundant dark green growth and many gas bubbles ; No. 8 , fair growth , but distinctly less than in Nos. 7 , 9 , 11 ; Nos. 9 and 11 , both show three or four times as much green growth as No. 8 ; No. 10 , no growth ; No. 12 , very slight growth .
At the end , just before Kjeldahling , a microscopical examination was made of Nos. 5 , 7 , 9 , 11 .
All these showed almost pure growths of small round single green cells ( Chlorella ) ; there were no mycelia or spores or other types of non-green cells .
Studies of Photo-synthesis Fresh-water Algce .
209 Commentary.\#151 ; Several distinct facts are shown by this experiment , and taking the final amount of nitrogen as quantitative guide , these will now be pointed out .
It is interesting in the first place to notice the increase in nitrogen which could only come from the atmosphere in those cases where no source of nitrogen was added from without , but other essential conditions of growth were more or less perfectly satisfied .
It is next of importance to note the effects of limiting each essential factor in turn , namely , carbon dioxide , easily available nitrogen ( nitrites ) , alkaline phosphate , and to note the great swing in photo-synthesis in No. 7 , where all are adequately satisfied .
Lastly , the important proof is clearly furnished , we believe , for the first time , that carbon dioxide can be completely cut off if its place be supplied by simple organic substances , such as formaldehyde and methylic alcohol , which have hitherto been regarded as the first products of photo-synthesis in the green cell , on purely circumstantial evidence , or upon very weak and uncertain positive experiments .
The uptake of nitrogen from the atmosphere is shown by the difference between Nos. 1 and 2 with nothing whatever added , only tap-water and a slight insemination with the algae present , the sole difference being that No. 1 is screwed up airtight , while No. 2 is open to the air .
The difference in nitrogen-content , T6 \#151 ; 0'3 = 1*3 mgrm .
is quite unmistakable .
The limiting factor to growth here is unquestionably deficiency in phosphate in the tap-water , as is clearly proven by Nos. 5 and 6 , where this defect is supplied .
This experiment again in a still stronger way shows the absorption of nitrogen from the air .
The fillip of the phosphate in No. 6 , with screwed-down lid , has caused a light commencing growth until carbon dioxide became exhausted , amounting to 1 mgrm .
; but when this is contrasted with No. 5 , differing only in access of air , i.e. , available carbon dioxide and nitrogen , the figure runs up to 8T mgrm .
, an increase of 7T mgrm .
Now taking this No. 5 as it stands by itself , and not contrasting it with any of the others , the proof is given that in 200 c.c. of tap water , plus 2 c.c. of 5 per cent , solution of di-sodium hydrogen phophate , plus a minute insemination of Chlorella , there is an abundant growth , and the absorption from the air of 7 to 8 mgrm .
of nitrogen .
The controls are abundant and the conclusion seems to us inevitable .
Next observe the effects of a luxus addition of easily available nitrogen as nitrite , as shown by No. 7 .
This differs from No. 5 only in the extra addition to the culture medium of 0*05 per cent , of sodium nitrite , and the crop goes up by 50 per cent , from 8T to 12'3 mgrm .
Similarly in the effect produced by manuring with ammonium salts or nitrates , a luxury supply produces a luxus crop .
Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
The small growth in No. 8 with lid screwed down shows that available phosphates and sources of nitrogen may be present , but when the supply of carbon dioxide is cut off , and no substitute supplied , no photo-synthesis can occur .
This is obvious , but No. 8 is a necessary control to No. 7 where CO2 is supplied from the air , and to Nos. 9 and 11 , where the air is shut out , but a supply of excessively dilute vapours of formaldehyde and methylic alcohol respectively are obtained from these substances contained in narrow test-tubes placed slantingly in the jars before the lids were screwed down .
The result demonstrates that supplied in this manner the vapours of these simple organic substances can substitute carbon dioxide quite well , there being 3'8 mgrm .
of nitrogen with the formaldehyde vapour and 7'4 mgrm .
with the methylic alcohol , as against 07 mgrm .
in the control .
This does not show quantitatively that methylic alcohol is better as a nutrient than formaldehyde , for with somewhat increased concentrations both vapours would kill the growing green cells , and it is a difficult problem so to regulate the concentration of each at these excessive dilutions that the maximum beneficial result is obtained .
The real point is that these vapours of simple organic substances , when sufficiently dilute , act not as poisons to the green cell but as nutrients which can replace carbon dioxide .
The bearing of these results upon the fundamental hypothesis of Baeyer , that the first step in the synthesis in green cells , of the organic from the inorganic , is formaldehyde , is so intimate that a little more consideration appears desirable .
Hitherto this hypothesis has rested mainly upon circumstantial evidence .
No one has ever been able to demonstrate the presence of formaldehyde in the living cell .
Various solutions of chlorophyll and emulsions of chlorophyll in water , or upon colloidal membranes , such as gelatine , have been exposed to light , and afterwards formaldehyde has been tested for by delicate chemical tests .
The results have been contradictory ; some observers have found formaldehyde and others have failed to detect it .
But we have previously shown that practically any organic system , when exposed to light , yields formaldehyde .
Hence the presence of formaldehyde under such conditions means nothing and probably comes from a reversed system , not of building up but of breaking down of organic substances .
Even if formaldehyde could be shown intra-vitally in a living cell it might only mean excessive light exposure and breaking down of living substance and not building up .
We have pointed out the same in previous communications ( 3 , etc. ) , viz. , that the lethal action of light upon bacteria and other living cells is probably due to such a reversed reaction , in which formaldehyde and other simple and poisonous organic substances are set free .
The other channel of approach experimentally to this question is more Studies of Photo-synthesis Fresh-water Alga .
211 promising , namely , Can these simple organic substances act as nutrients for cells ?
If formaldehyde be the primary stage in photo-synthesis by which green cells are nourished , then it ought to be possible by supplying formaldehyde when carbon dioxide is shut off to make green cells grow and flourish .
Many attempts have been made in this direction , but have all failed , or given very dubious results , because of the highly poisonous action of formaldehyde .
Formaldehyde , if and when formed in a green cell , must immediately be condensed into a sugar or some other non-poisonous organic compound or the cell will perish ; there is , accordingly , no demonstrable amount of formaldehyde in the cell .
If now it be supposed that the cell in sunlight is always producing formaldehyde which at once is changed into something else , then in order to mimic this process experimentally a system must be invented in which formaldehyde at minute concentrations is fed in slowly , at a rate not greater than the cells of the system can assimilate it .
The formaldehyde must not be added to the solution in which the cells are growing at the outset , for any quantity detectable afterwards by increase in the cells would kill them .
It must be continuously and very slowly administered as a dilute vapour .
Two glass tubes of about 0'5 cm .
in diameter , each about 18 cm .
long , were sealed at the one end so as to make narrow test-tubes .
One of these was about half filled with formol ( 40 per cent , formaldehyde ) , the other with methylic alcohol .
The tube containing formol was placed slanting in bottle No. 9 , the closed end resting on the bottom of the bottle , and the upper end on the inside of the neck close beneath the glass lid .
The tube containing methylic alcohol was similarly placed in No. 11 .
Both glass lids were tightly screwed down to exclude atmospheric carbon dioxide .
The nutrient solutions contained nitrite as well as phosphate .
The two flasks were kept exposed to light , and after some weeks there were good growths obtained in both .
Judged from the amounts of nitrogen there was a fixation of 3'5 mgrm .
in the formaldehyde nutrition , and a fixation of 7'1 mgrm .
in the methylic alcohol nutrition .
To get from the nitrogen fixation to the carbon fixation these figures must be multiplied by a factor of at least 8 , for the weight of carbon even in protein is treble that of the nitrogen , and there is carbon but no nitrogen in carbohydrates and fats .
If this factor be applied there is a fixation of 28 mgrm .
of carbon from formaldehyde ( =70 mgrm .
of formaldehyde ) , and of 56'8 mgrm .
of carbon from methylic alcohol ( = 151 mgrm .
of methylic alcohol ) .
The bottles Nos. 10 and 12 were a similarly conducted experiment , but without available nitrates or other easily assimilable Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
nitrogen , and this has greatly repressed the production of growth .
The two amounts of nitrogen of TO and IT mgrm .
are , however , considerably above the controls , namely , OT to 0-3 , so that it would appear probable that there was a slow fixation of atmospheric elemental nitrogen .
( See in this con nection the next experiment , Nos. 3 and 4 , and the succeeding paper on Marine Algse .
) Experiment 3.\#151 ; Commenced August 9 , 1918 ; terminated August 29 , 1918 .
This set was likewise carried out in Kilner jars , and was designed to test whether , with exclusion of the free atmosphere , nutrition and growth could be achieved by feeding with high dilutions of carbon dioxide , and of oxides of nitrogen .
The experiment was carried out as follows :\#151 ; Eight Kilner jars were taken .
Each of these received 100 c.c. tap-water , 1 c.c. of a 1 per cent , solution of sodium chloride , 1 c.c. of a 1 per cent , solution of alkaline potassium phosphate ( K2HPO4 ) , and two drops of a 1 per cent , solution of ferric chloride ( equivalent to 0T4 c.e. ) .
Then to each was given a minute insemination of 1 c.c. of a dilute suspension of a unicellular green algal growth .
The eight jars were set out on the lawn in the daylight on August 9 , each being loosely covered by its lid , but opened daily , so as to establish growth in each case preparatory to the subsequent treatment .
On August 16 growths are evident , and about equally advanced in all the jars ; numerous fresh colonies have started attached to the bottoms , and in the precipitated calcium phosphate .
The eight jars were now divided into four pairs .
The first pair ( Nos. 1 and 2 ) simply had their lids screwed on airtight .
The second pair ( Nos. 3 and 4 ) first had a narrow test-tube , similar to that described in Experiment 2 , and half filled with solid sodium bicarbonate inserted , and both then had their lids screwed on airtight .
The third pair ( Nos. 5 and 6 ) , instead of the sodium bicarbonate tube , had a similar tube , containing a system designed to evolve nitrogen peroxide and other oxides of nitrogen very slowly into the air of the jar .
The fourth pair ( Nos. 7 and 8 ) each had two tubes , one containing sodium bicarbonate , and the other the nitrous system .
This nitrous system was constructed thus:\#151 ; A few crystals of sodium nitrite were introduced into the narrow test-tube , the tube was then gently half filled with water , and on top of this there was introduced a column of about 3 cm .
of 1 in 10 nitric acid .
The design of the experiment was to shut off all atmospheric supply of carbon dioxide and of nitrites , and in one pair leave the algse destitute of both these ; in the next , supply carbon dioxide and restrict nitrites ; in the third , supply nitrites but restrict carbon dioxide ; and , in the fourth , supply both carbon dioxide and nitrites .
The dissociation pressure of carbon Studies of Photo-synthesis in Fresh-water Algce .
213 dioxide from sodium bicarbonate lies between 1 mm. and 2 mm. of mercury , so it is ample to supply the needs of the algae ; also the nitrous system was so arranged as to give off the nitrous fumes at such a rate that the algae could cope with them and utilise them , so that the nutrient medium did not become aeid^ Examined on August 30 ( i.e. , 14 days after the addition of the side-tube ) , it is found that Nos. 1 and 2 ( no addition ) and Nos. 5 and 6 ( nitrites only ) are dead and degenerating .
This had occurred in about a day in Nos. 5 and 6 , probably because they could not grow from lack of carbon dioxide , and so the oxide of nitrogen absorbed by their culture media accumulated and killed them .
Degeneration did not occur in Nos. 1 and 2 for about a week to ten days , but at the end of the fortnight they were obviously dead and degenerating .
The contrast in the case of the other four jars was striking ; all four had lived , increased in amount , and were flourishing at the end .
It was obvious that the pair which had received both carbon dioxide and oxides of nitrogen were much in advance of the other pair , which had been supplied with carbon-dioxide only .
The latter , of course , had a supply of elemental nitrogen in the enclosed air of the jar .
The united contents of each pair of jars , when Kjeldahled , gave the following results:\#151 ; Nitrogen .
Nos. 1 and 2 ( no additions ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
3'46 mgrm .
Nos. 3 and 4 ( sod .
bicarb , only ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5'40 " Nos. 5 and 6 ( oxides of nitrogen only ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2'50 " Nos. 7 and 8 ( both sod .
bicarb , and oxides of nitrogen ) 14T0 " The larger weight of nitrogen found in Nos. 5 and 6 , which did not grow after addition of oxides of nitrogen , as compared with the controls of the previous experiment , arises from the growth during the first week open to the atmosphere , when the growths were allowed to strike ; no such period was allowed in the preceding experiment .
If the amount of 2 50 mgrm .
in this pair be taken as the control , then the amount of nitrogen fixed by jars , with no additions , before succumbing to lack of carbon dioxide is 0'96 mgrm .
When carbon dioxide is supplied from the sodium bicarbonate , but no oxides of nitrogen are given to the air , so that the only source for the fixation of nitrogen* is the elemental nitrogen of the air enclosed in the jars , this figure rises to ( 5'40 \#151 ; 2'50 ) 2-90 mgrm .
This result is of high importance , for it * As we have shown in a previous paper , this air contains a trace of nitrites , but the amount in the few hundred cubic-centimetres of air contained in the jar is infinitesimal and may be neglected .
Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
shows that , given supplies of carbon dioxide , nitrogen , and oxygen , in presence of sunshine , the cell can form its own oxides of nitrogen and build these into amino-compounds , although at a much slower rate than when oxides of nitrogen are supplied .
This is confirmed again by the experiments on marine algse to be detailed in the succeeding paper .
In the sea-water a source of carbon dioxide already exists in the bicarbonate of magnesium and calcium dissolved in it .
Hence no side-tube is necessary , and a marine alga simply shut up airtight photosynthesises and fixes both carbon and nitrogen .
The stimulating and growth-quickening effect of traces of oxides of nitrogen , passing from the air to dissolve in the aqueous medium bathing the green cell , is shown by the great rise when these oxides are supplied , as in Nos. 7 and 8 .
The amount of nitrogen here fixed is 11'60 mgrm .
, as compared with 2'90 when elemental nitrogen is the sole source .
Summary .
1 .
The primaeval living organism , like the inorganic colloidal systems which were its precursors , must have possessed the power of fixing carbon and nitrogen and building these up into reduced organic compounds with uptake of energy .
The source of the energy was sunlight .
2 .
This power is still possessed by the lowliest type of synthesising cell existing , namely , the unicellular alga .
3 .
A synthesising cell must have existed prior to bacteria and other fungi , since these can only exist upon organic matter , and the primaeval world before the advent of life could contain no organic matter .
4 .
Their specific reactions show that even the ultra-microscopic filterpassing organisms are highly organised products on the path from the inorganic towards life , and it hence follows that there is a long intermediate range of evolution .
The first synthesising system acting upon the light was hence probably an inorganic colloidal system in solution , capable of adsorbing the simple organic substances which it synthesised .
It is hence futile to search for the origin of life at the level of bacteria and torulse .
5 .
As complexity increased with progressive evolution more and more rapid transformers for the capture of the energy of the sunlight came into existence .
Such transformers are found in the green cell for fixation of both carbon and nitrogen .
The earlier transformers in the inorganic colloidal systems can only utilise light of short wave-lengths ; the later transformers in the living cells are adapted to utilise longer wave-lengths , and the very short wave-lengths , which are lethal , are cut off by their colour screens of chlorophyll , etc. Studies of Photo-synthesis in Fresh-water Algos .
215 6 .
The earliest products of photo-synthesis , such as formaldehyde and methylic alcohol , are highly poisonous to the green cell ; but fed to it at sufficiently high dilution , can be used as nutrition in absence of carbon dioxide , and very marked growths have been obtained with these substances as the sole source of carbon .
7 .
In the absence of all other sources of nitrogen save the elemental nitrogen of the atmosphere , but with abundance of carbon dioxide , the unicellular algae can fix nitrogen , grow and form proteins .
8 .
The rate of fixation and growth is , however , greatly accelerated if nitrites or oxides of nitrogen are available .
9 .
These oxides of nitrogen can be supplied in gaseous form from the amosphere , and pure country air normally contains such oxides of nitrogen , especially in spring and summer .
REFERENCES .
( 1 ) Jamieson , ' Reports Agricultural Research Association , * Aberdeen , 1905-1911 .
( 2 ) Mameli and Pollacci , " Sull* Assimilazione dell ' Azoto atmosferico nei Yegetali , " Pavia , ' Atti .
1st .
Bot. , ' vol. 14 , pp. 159-257 ( 1911 ) .
( 3 ) Moore and Webster , " Synthesis by Sunlight in relation to the Origin of Life\#151 ; Synthesis of Formaldehyde , etc. , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * B , vol. 87 , pp. 163-176 ( 1913 ) .
( 4 ) Moore and Webster , " Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds , etc. , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 90 , pp. 168-186 ( 1919 ) .

