I. " An Experimental Inquiry undertaken with the view of ascertaining whether any force is evolved during Muscular Contraction analogous to the force evolved in the Fish , Gymnotus , and Torpedo .
" By HENRY FOSTER BAXTER , Esq. Communicated by Sir B. C. BRODIE , Bart. , V.P.R.S. Received April 17 , 1855 .
After referring to the results obtained by Matteucci by means of the frog , by Du Bois-Reymond by means of the galvanometer , and those of Zantedeschi , Buff , Tyndall , Despretz , Becquerel and Matteucci in reference to Du Bois-Reymond 's experiments ; in repeating the experiments of Du Bois-Reymond , the author has been led to the following conclusions : First .
That during muscular contraction in man and in frogs an effect upon the galvanometer may be obtained , indicating the manifestation of an electric current ; and Secondly , That this manifestation of an electric current is due , in a great measure , to secondary reactions , viz. between the animal secretions and the solutions on the one hand , and between the solutions and the surfaces of the platinum electrodes on the other ; but that there nevertheless remains a residual effect , which we cannot refer to either of these actions , or to those pointed out by Du BoisReymond .
The principal reasons upon which the author considers that the effects cannot be entirely referred to secondary actions are these:1st .
The current due to muscular contraction may be made to overcome a slight constant current circulating through the galvanometer ; and 2ndly , the fact obtained by Matteucci with the galvanoscopic frog would indicate that some force is evolved during muscular contraction .
Some differences appear to exist in the results obtained by the author and those of Du Bois-Reymond , viz. the direction of the current .
Du Bois-Reymond considers it as direct in the frog , and inverse in man ; the author 's experiments indicate it to be direct in both cases , but he thinks that this difference will be found to be more in appearance than in reality , inasmuch as two distinct questions may have been involved , viz. 1st , whether the muscular current is affected during the act of contraction ; and 2ndly , whether any force is or is not evolved during muscular contraction .
As the author wishes the paper to be considered as strictly experimental , and his object being to establish facts , he has endeavoured to avoid everything of a purely controversial character .

