A Preliminary Note on the Fossil Plants of the Mount Potts New Zealand , Collected by Mr. D. Lillie , Biologist to Captain Scott 's Antarctic Expedition in the " Terra Nova .
" By E. A. Newell Aeber , M.A. , Sc. D. , E.G.S. , F.L.S. , Trinity College , Cambridge , University Demonstrator in Palseobotany .
( Communicated by Prof. T. McKenny Hughes , F.R.S. Received February 17 , \#151 ; Read March 6 , 1913 .
) [ Plates 7 and 8 .
] In the present communication , I propose to discuss very briefly the first fruits , which have reached this country , of Captain Scott 's Second Antarctic Expedition ( 1910-13 ) .
A full account of the fossil flora in question must be reserved for a future occasion .
At present I have only permission to contribute a preliminary note on the subject .
It is well known that , during the winter months of the last two years , the " Terra Nova , " the ship of Captain Scott 's Second Antarctic Expedition , has been actively engaged in furthering scientific researches in New Zealand waters , returning , however , to the Antarctic each summer .
My friend , Mr. D. G. Lillie , B.A. , of St. John 's College , Cambridge , one of the biologists of Captain Scott 's Scientific Staff , who has been attached throughout to the " Terra Nova , " has been busily occupied with various researches , partly biological and partly geological .
During the short periods when he has been free to proceed with geological work , he has set himself the task of trying to clear up some of the doubtful points , which remain unsolved , in regard to the stratigraphical geology of New Zealand , more especially by means of the fossil floras of the rocks in question .
As is well known , the precise geological age of many subdivisions of the stratigraphical sequence of these islands remains in doubt , and in some cases these questions have been matters of keen dispute in the past as at the present time .
Among them , none has given rise to greater controversy than the doubt which has existed as to the precise geological age of the plant beds of Mount Potts , in Ashburton County , Canterbury .
Do these beds contain and perhaps a typical Permo-Carboniferous Glossopteris flora ?
Did New Zealand , as one would expect , in Permo-Carboniferous times form part of the great Southern continent , " Gondwanaland , " the home of the Glossopteris flora , like the greater part of Australia , South Africa , and South America ?
These are the questions as yet in doubt .
If , on the other hand , New Zealand , in Permo-Carboniferous times , formed no part of Gondwanaland , Fossil Plants of the Mount Potts Beds , New Zealand .
345 we are obviously face to face with a conclusion of the greatest geological importance .
This is- one of the questions which Mr. Lillie has set himself the task of solving.* Plant-remains in the Mount Potts beds were first discovered by A. McKayf in 1878 .
The collection was examined by HectorJ in the same year , and he stated that it contained examples of and this assertion being repeated in 1886 .
These conclusions subsequently led to considerable controversy between Hector , Haast , McCoy , and others , the details of which it is unnecessary to enter into here .
The whole question has turned on the identification of the fossils , and the evidence as to their stratigraphical position .
Further , until Mr. Lillie 's visit , the collections from this region appear to have been small and very fragmentary , and even these had not been examined at any time by European specialists in palaeobotany .
The fine collections made , in November , 1911 , by Mr. Lillie , in conjunction with Mr. R. Speight of Canterbury College , in very wild and difficult country , appear , however , to settle this question once and for all .
Glossopteris itself is not present , nor is the flora a typical Glossopteris flora .
The most characteristic and striking plant represented is , however , one which resembles Glossopteris in habit .
It has the same tongue-shaped , entire frond , with a well-marked midrib , but the lateral nerves , instead of anastomosing as in Glossopteris , do not unite with one another .
S ( Plate 7 , figs. 1 and 4 .
) One member of this genus has already been described from the Rhsetic beds of Chili .
The specimens in question were termed Lesleya Steinmanni.\\ It seems to me very doubtful whether these leaves belong to the Palaeozoic genus Lesleya .
I should be inclined to place the New Zealand * * * S * This paper was written before the news of the sad disaster to the Polar party of the Expedition reached this country .
It is , however , only fair to the memory of the late Capt. Scott , whose death I deplore most " sincerely , to point out that the work which Mr. Lillie and others have been engaged in , during the winter months in New Zealand , was part and parcel of the scientific intention of his expedition , to be fulfilled during the times when the " Terra Nova " would be useless in the Antarctic , , but could be profitably employed in New Zealand waters .
t McKay , ' Rep. Geol .
Explor .
Geol .
Surv .
N.Z. , ' 1878 , pp. 91-109 .
+ Hector , ' Proc. N.Z. Inst. , ' 1878 , vol. 10 , p 533 , and ' Cat. N.Z. Court , Indian and Colonial Exhibition , London , ' 1886 , p. 77 .
S As will be seen from the upper part of the photograph on Plate 7 , fig. 1 , there appear to be at least some anastomoses , but I am convinced that , in this as in other cases , these are false and not real , and that they are due either to the partial removal of the film of carbon , or to the fact that the normal distribution of the nervation had become disturbed just before or during preservation .
Such false anastomoses are by no means infrequently met with among fossil impressions .
|| Solms , ' Neues Jahrb .
, ' 1899 , vol. 12 , Beil .
Bd .
, p. 596 , Plate XIII , figs. 5-7 .
Dr. E. A. N. Arber .
Plants of the [ Feb. 17 , fossils , at any rate , in a new genus Linguifand to regard them as a new species L. Lillieanum , so named in honour of Mr. Lillie .
They are certainly specifically distinct from the Chilean plant .
This plant may be also compared with the Copiapaea plicatella of Sol ms* from Chili , and the talbragarenseof Etheridgef from New South Wales , the latter believed to be a Palaeozoic fossil .
In addition to Linguifolium Lillieanum , a number of other well preserved species occur .
There is a new species of Ghiropteris ( Plate 8 , fig. 6 ) , the distal margin of which is lacerated , and which I propose to name lacerata sp. nova .
Leaves of a species of Baiera ( Plate 7 , figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) , closely similar to but perhaps distinct from Baiera paucipartita , Nathorst , from the Ehsetic of Bjuf , Sweden , are also associated .
A which may he closely compared with Diciyophyllum a(Braun ) , is present .
Other fronds are those of Thinnfeldia lancifolia ( Morris ) ( Plate 8 , fig. 7 ) and Cladophlebis australis ( Morris ) .
Numerous examples of a Tceniopteris , which is no doubt T. Daintreei , McCoy , occur ( Plate 8 , fig. 5 ) .
Among the Equisetaceous remains , pith-casts are represented which resemble those of Phyllotheca or Schizoneura , but , in the absence of foliage , it is impossible to refer them to the one genus rather than the other .
However , the small detached leaf-sheaths of a Phyllotheca are undoubtedly present .
Finally , associated with the above plants , are many examples of the Indian ( Gondwana ) Palissya conferta ( Oldh .
) ( Plate 8 , fig. 5 ) .
From this brief review of this interesting flora it is obvious that it is of Mesozoic age , and belongs either to the late Triassie ( Eheetic ) or to the early Jurassic period .
Linguifolium , which is a homoeomorph of Glossopteris , just as Lonchopteris is of Alethopteris , or Dictyozam of , is already known from Ehsetic rocks in Chili .
Ghiropteris is at present confined to the Ehsetic , some species occurring in the Triassic rocks of Europe , and also , as Prof. Seward has shown , in the Stormberg Series ( Ehsetic ) of South Africa .
Baiera paucipartita , Nath .
, and Dictyophyllumacutilobum ( Braun ) occur in the Ehsetic of Europe .
Thinnfeldia lancifolia ( Morris ) is found chiefly in the Eh\#174 ; tic , though it no doubt also occurs in the Jurassic .
Cladophlebis australis ( Morris ) is known both from the Jurassic and Ehsetic in the Southern Hemisphere .
The only two plants which , at present , are exclusively Jurassic are the Gondwana ( Eajmahal ) Palissya conferta\ ( Oldb .
) , and Tceniopteris Daintreei , * Solms , ibid. ) 1899 , p. 594 , Plate XIII , figs. 8-11 .
t Etheridge , ' Eec .
Austral .
Mus./ 1899 , vol. 3 , p. 135 , Plates XXIV-XXVII .
| It is interesting to find that Dr. Halle has just described this plant from Graham Land in the Antarctic .
( ' Wissen .
Ergebn .
Schwed .
Sudpolar-Exped .
, 1901-1903/ 1913 , vol. 3 , Part 14 , p. 86 , Plate VIII , figs. 26-40 .
) Arber .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B , vol. Plate SfK fm Photos by W. Tams .
FOSSIL PLANTS FROM NEW ZEALAND .
Arber .
Roy .
Soc. ProcBvol .
Plate 8 Photos by W. Tams .
FOSSIL PLANTS FROM NEW ZEALAND .
Mount Potts Beds , New Zealand .
1913 .
] McCoy , which , in Australia , is essentially a Jurassic type , though perhaps it may also occur in the E luetic .
From this rapid survey of the Mount Potts flora we see that , while its affinities are essentially Rhsetic , a few Jurassic types also occur , and thus the age of the beds may be either Ehaetic or Lower Jurassic .
At present we are unable to distinguish clearly between a Rhsetic and a Lower Oolite flora , so this point need not be laboured here .
There is little doubt that the Mount Potts beds are , geologically , the oldest , plant-bearing series as yet discovered in New Zealand , and as we have seen they are of Rhaeto-Jurassic age .
Palaeozoic sediments with marine invertebrates undoubtedly occur in the islands , but so far there is no evidence of any land floras of older age than the Ehaetic .
Not only is Glossopteris unknown from New Zealand , but no land plants of Palaeozoic age of any description have ever been found there .
There is thus no evidence that New Zealand ever formed part of G-ondwanaland , and this is a conclusion of great theoretical interest .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
( All the photographs are by Mr. W. Tams , Cambridge .
Nearly all the figures are enlarged .
Plate 7 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Linguifolium Lillieanum gen .
et spec .
nova .
On the left , an almost entire leaf , the apex being wanting however .
On the right Baiera sp. , the base of a leaf .
Enlarged x f. Fig. 2.\#151 ; Baiera cf. Baiera paucipartita Nath .
An almost complete leaf .
Enlarged xS .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Baiera cf. Baiera paucipartita Nath .
A median portion of a leaf .
Not .
size .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Linguifolium Lillieanum gen .
et spec .
nova .
Two fragments of leaves , one nearly apical , the other median , showing the nervation clearly .
Enlarged Xf .
Plate 8 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Tceniopteris Daintreei ( McCoy ) above , and Palissya conferta ( Oldh .
) below .
Enlarged x S. Fig. 6.\#151 ; Chiropteris lacerata sp. nova .
A nearly complete leaf , showing the incised apex .
Enlarged Xf .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Thinnfeldia lancifolia ( Morris ) .
Not .
size .

