]\gt ; On the Resistances to th Flow of Air through Pipe .
By JOHN H. GRINDLEY , D.Sc .
( Vict .
) , and A. H. GIBSON , M.Sc .
( Vict .
) .
( Communicated by Professor Horace Lamb , F.R.S. Receired April 19 , \mdash ; Read May 23 , \mdash ; Received in revised form Octci ) , 1907 .
) PAGE S1 114 S2.\mdash ; Description of the appliances 115 S3.\mdash ; The theory of the flow of a gas through a pipe and the deduction of general equations required in the research 118 S4.\mdash ; The determination of the essential di mensions of the experimental tube 121 S5.\mdash ; The method of conducting the experiments and the details of a typical experiment 122 S 6.\mdash ; The results of the experiments 125 S 7.\mdash ; The determination of the critical velocity for the flow of air in the tube 1.30 S \mdash ; The determination of the coefficient of viscosity and its variation with temperature 130 S9.\mdash ; The determination of the resistances to the passa ge of air in eddying motion through the tube , with a determination of the true equation of flow 135 1 .
Introduction .
The research described in this paper was commenced by Dr. rindley at the suggestion of Professor Osborne eynolds in the Whitworth Engineering Laboratories , the Owens College , Manchester .
Mr. Gibson continued the research after Dr. Grindley had left Manchester .
The experiments were commenced with the object of determining , on a larger experimental scale than usual , the coefficient of viscosity of air and other gases and the variation of this coefficient with temperature .
The present research , however , developed into a more complete investigation of the resistances to the passage of air through a pipe .
] velocities of flow of the air through the pipe in the experimenGs by Dr. Grindley were for the most part above the critical velocity , the critical velocity being the velocity of flow below which the motion is steady or stream line and above which the motion becomes eddying or turbulent , the laws of resistance the passage of the air bein .
different in the two kinds of flow .
These experiments by Dr. Grindley indicated the value of the critical velocity of flow through the particular pipe used in the experiments , but the few experiments at velocities of flow below the critical were insufficient to On Resistcmces to Flow of .
a .
115 permit any deductions on viscosity to be made , and it was left to Mr. Gibson to make all the experiments at velocities of flow belo the critical from the results of which the coefficient of viscosity has been deduced in this paper .
The scope of the research may best be shown by the summar of some of the more important deductions .
( 1 ) The coefficient of viscosity , , of dry air at C. is in .
sbsolute units .
( 2 ) The law of variation of with temperature has been determined between the limits C. and C. , and is found to represented by an equation of the form where and are constants , and is the absolute temperature .
( 3 ) The absence of dependence of on the density of the air has lreceived experimental verification .
( 4 ) The critical velocity for a small lead pipe\mdash ; about 1/ 8 an inch been determined .
In the turbulent motion of air through a pipe , the resistance has been found to be independent of the pressure of air in the pipe , and to be proportional to , where for this pipe .
( 6 ) The law of variation of this resistance with temperature has been determined .
2 .
Description of the Appliances .
The general arrangement of the apparatus is shown in .
It consists two gasholders A and each of a little over 3 cubic feet capacity and connected by a length of lead tubing of roughly 1/ 8 of an inch internal diameter .
Part of this length is to be used as the experimental tube , and at the ends of this , arrangements for measuring the pressures are provided .
The gasholder A contains air which can be forced through the experimental tube and into by the simple expedients of water into the lower part of A and emptying of water contained by it at the beginning of each experiment .
These vessels A and were calibrated so that the volume of air or entering in any time interval could be obtained at once from the graduated gauges and bb by observing the heights of the columns of water in these tubes .
The length oftube between A and is practically all wound on a central cylinder of brass , the tube being wound at a constant small tension and fitting into a properly turned helical groove on the outer surface of the drum , VO L. LXXX.\mdash ; A.

