[ 583 ] XVI .
On the Morphology and the Development of the Mel Lola , a Genus of Tropical Epiphyllous Fungi .
By H. Marshall Ward , B.A. , Fellow of Owens College , Victoria late Cryptogamist to the Ceylon Government .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , C.M.G. , M.A. , Assistant Director , Royal Gardens Kew .
Received November 28 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1882 .
[ Plates 42-44 .
] During the course of recent researches into the nature of parasitic fungi , my attention was arrested for some time by several forms of epiphytal growths which occupy a sort of half-way position between the more pronounced endophyllous parasites , and those fungi which cannot he looked upon as requiring more than a hold-fast or shelter from their hosts .
Among these are the Ma group established by Fries in 1825 to receive certain tropical fungi.'* In the 4 Armales des Sciences Naturelles ' for 185it is a memoir by Bornet on the species constituting the genus Meliola , in which the characters of these remarkable epiphytes are enumerated and examined , and a classification of the known forms proposed : this paper is a standing authority on the subject , and I shall have occasion to refer to it at intervals subsequently , partly to confirm some of Bornet 's work , partly to add new observations and correct older views as to the nature or significance of various points .
The Meliolas are minute epiphyllous fungi , belonging to the the deep-brown or black mycelium of which appears as sooty patches on many and various plants in the tropics , and presents , roughly , a similar appearance to the masses of Capnodium or Fumago sometimes observed in European woods on the leaves of living plants .
Though , according to Bornet , several species must have been known under different names to the earlier botanists , the name established by Fries , and published in his revised system , was accepted by Montague and Leveille and has persisted since : Berkeley , in England , has referred to the group in his 4 Cryptogamic Botany , ' and has described several species from the tropics in various papers .
* ' Systema Orbis Yegetabilium .
' f Ser. iii .
, Bot. , t. xvi .
, pp. 257 , Ac .
The habit of these fungi , and the fact that no true had been found among the collections of travellers in the tropics , led Fries " ' to insist strongly on the known or supposed analogies between the two genera , and , Bornet following Fries , the Meliolashave thus come to be regarded as replacing the Erysiphes in tropical countries\#151 ; as , in fact , " representative species .
" Bornet added several facts to those already known concerning the coarser anatomy of the group ; but even his excellent and systematic memoir left large gaps in the knowledge of important details , and practically nothing was known of their development or of the formation of their " fruit-bodies .
" These and other gaps I hope to fill up to at least a large extent in the present essay .
The appearance of this fungus as presented to the unaided eye , is much the same as that offered by Asterinaand similar forms , and the reader may be referred to a recently published drawing of that fungus for a tolerably accurate idea of it.t The chief difference is that the black maculae presented by well developed plants of Meliola are more decided and thicker than those of Asterina ; all transitions are found , however , and , as with many other forms of epiphyllous Pyrenomycetes , it is impossible to detect exactly what fungus is present by a superficial examination .
The fungus Meliola may be conveniently considered as composed of a mycelium , which supports appendages and perithecia , and which arises from spores developed within the asci of the latter .
Bornet considered the " receptacle " as an equally important and distinct constituent , but this is perhaps unnecessary since , as will be shown , the so-called " receptacle " can only be looked upon as a more or less accidental development , so to speak , depending and following upon the formation of the peri-thecium .
The mycelium , forming the chief part of the black patches found on the surface of the affected leaves , petioles \amp ; c. , spreads in an irregularly stellate manner from a common centre or centres ( see Plate 42 , fig. 1 ) .
It is detached with comparative ease from the epidermis of the leaf , and bristles with fine , simple or branched , pointed appendages , of a black colour , which spring from the main hyphse , and from around the subglobular perithecia which are irregularly scattered over the surface .
The main hyphse constituting this vegetative part of the fungus , are irregularly radiating , sinuous or zigzag filaments , closely appressed to the epidermis of the leaf , \amp ; c. , and composed of cylindrical joints or cells placed end to end , and branching at angles of about 45 degrees ( cf. Plate 42 , fig. 2 , and Plate 43 , fig. 5 ) .
Their stiff and even brittle walls are deeply coloured brown or black , and thus obscure the view of their contents : sections and reagents prove these to be finely grained protoplasm , with or without oily drops in the interior .
The diameter of the hypha is equal throughout , * * Sumna Vegetabilium , ' p. 406 : " Genus in foliis tropicis vulgatissimum ut in terris temperatis .
" t Quar .
Jo urn .
Micr .
Sc. , October , 1882 , plate 27 , figs. 1 and 2 .
See also Bornet 's beautiful figures , Ann. des .
Sc. Not .
, ser. iii .
, t. xvi .
, plates 21 and 22 .
DEVELOPMENT OP THE PERITHECIUM OP M ELIO LA .
the apex being , as a rule , evenly rounded : the cross-septa dividing the hyphse into cells are firmly marked , thick , and dark-coloured like the outer walls .
The main branches of the mycelium all present the same general characters described above .
In many cases , however , the blunt apices of the larger hyphrn , instead of being evenly rounded , become curiously deformed by an accumulation of abnormal growths , of the nature of caps ( see Plate 43 , fig. 7 ) fitting roughly one over the other : these consist of swollen , more or less cuticularised thickenings of the cell-wall , with or without granular debris between the layers .
They are evidently produced by irregularities in the forward growth of the hypha : in the moist intervals the growing apex , more delicate than the older portions of the hypha , creeps along the surface of the leaf in the normal manner ; during recurrent dry and hot unfavourable periods , however , sudden hardening and stoppage of growth causes the accumulation of the caps .
That unfavourable intervals in outward circumstances may produce such abnormalities is well seen in the Saprolegnice , and I have in these observed the formation of successive shell-like caps of dense cellulose , more or less altered , and enclosing granular matter between the layers : the caps are coloured blue by solution of zinc-chloride and iodine , the granular debris yellow .
These phenomena were by no means uncommon with the hyphse of Adilya and Saprolegnia grown , in summer , too long in the same water ; of course the pathological changes are produced by different causes in the two cases .
* Besides the main branches of the mycelium , certain small pyriform or flask-shaped outgrowths are given off at pretty regular intervals from the cylindrical cells of the larger hyphse ( see Plate 42 , fig. 2 , and Plate 43 , figs. 3 and 4 ) : in some cases each cell or joint gives off such a short branchlet from each side , in others from alternate sides .
More rarely they are absent altogether .
In all cases examined the short lateral branchlet arises as a simple bulging out of the lateral wall of the cell : as this proceeds , the bud ( as it may be considered ) swells out , and its cavity finally becomes separated from that of the parent branch by a firm septum .
The long axis of the bud-like protuberance is very generally , though not always directed at an angle of nearly 45 degrees with that of the portion of the main hypha lying nearer the growing point ( see Plate 42 , fig. 2 , \amp ; c. ) : its walls are similarly dark coloured and firm , and it contains fine grained protoplasm much as the cells of the main hyphse .
Morphologically considered , the short lateral outgrowths are undoubtedly of the nature of arrested branches .
In one form of Meliola , growing on the leaves of a species of Convolvulus , I have observed a second form of the lateral branchlet ( see Plate 43 , fig. 4 ) , co-existing with the commoner pyriform type .
In this case the outgrowth was longer , narrowed into a sort of neck , and presented the general shape of a Florence flask , seated with its bulged out body on the parent branch .
In some specimens , each cell of the latter * There seems reason to believe that further investigation may throw light on this subject in connexion with the apposition of the cell-wall .
supported two opposite flask-shaped branchlets : in others only one , with or without a pyriform body in addition .
Sometimes one or the other type occurred singly and irregularly ( fig. 4 ) .
The flask-shaped body is sometimes open at the apex , though I have never succeeded in observing anything emitted from the pore .
These flask-shaped appendages recall to mind the peculiar bodies figured by Woronin in another group of the mycetes ( Sordaria ) , * and although no grounds exist for correlating the two phenomena in detail , the fact is at least worth recording that the lateral pyriform bodies in Meliola are capable of subserving reproduction , as will be shown hereafter .
When the liyphfe or branchlets of this fungus are looked upon from above , and a strong light passes through from below , one often observes a minute , circular , bright spot , which appears to shine through the upper wall like a very small oil-drop ; on reversing the object , so that the lower side of the hypha comes uppermost , this brilliant pore-like spot appears much more evident , and is clearly due to a thinning in the wall of the under side of the hypha , at a spot where no colouring matter is deposited in the cell-walls , and where the contained protoplasm is placed more nearly in connexion with the outside ( see Plate 43 , fig. 7 , and Plate 44 , figs. 21 , 40 ) .
Bornet apparently refers to these bright spots when he speaks of oily globules in the interior of the hyphse , !
though he may have been speaking of actual oil-drops developed in the dried specimens with which he chiefly worked .
If Bornet 's remarks refer to the bright spots here described , the facts of their appearing only on the lower wall , and not being altered by alcohol , \amp ; c. , remain to be explained .
Taking all the facts into account , the view seems to recommend itself that these bright spots are the points of attachment of the hyphse to the epidermis ; if so , they are to be regarded as haustoria of a very rudimentary nature .
The mycelium certainly is attached to the surface of the leaf , though but feebly , and it appears suggestive that alcohol specimens are more easily detached than fresh ones , possibly because the protoplasm becomes contracted and rendered brittle .
No other anchoring bodies have been observed , and one notes that the position of these brilliant spots accords with that of the well-developed haustoria in j : a genus of fungi at least allied to the Meliolas .
These bright points are not always present , and in some cases seem to be normally absent .
They are very generally formed at once on germination , appearing on the first short tubes put forth by the spore ( fig. 40 ) , a condition of things which may again be compared to what occurs in and also in Erysipheand allied forms .
|| Still another point reminding us of Asterina and the Erysiphece is the function of the pyriform branchlets ; in some cases at * * * S * " Beitrage sir Morph , u. Pliys .
d. Pike , " De Bary and Woronin , ser. iii .
, plate 5 .
t Op. cit. , p. 260 , and plate 21 , fig. 3 .
J See my description in Qnar .
Journ. Micr .
Sc. , October , 1882 .
S Bornet , op .
cit. , plate 28 , fig. 5 .
|| De Bary , " Beitrage sir Morph , u. Phys. d. Pilze , " 1870 , R. iii .
, plate 12 , figs. 1 and 2 .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERITHEOIUM OF MELTOLA .
least , they become detached , and act as vegetative reproductive organs or each putting forth bud-like processes which develop into new hyphse .
Bornet remarked the separation of these buds in and hints at their possibly serving as reproductive bodies much as the forms of Erysiphece : since he worked with dried specimens , however , this question could not be decided .
Bornet remarks that the mycelium on the upper side of many leaves are sterile , while those below and protected from the direct rays of the sun alone support perithecia :this is certainly not true for the species examined by me , and , indeed , I cannot determine any difference between the upper and lower mycelia in this respect .
Those on the upper surface seem quite as productive of spores , \amp ; c. , as those below , and in many cases\#151 ; e.g. , those Meliolce so common on Memecylon\#151 ; the mycelium vegetates almost exclusively on the upper surface , and is quite fertile there .
Besides the short pyriform and flask-shaped branchlets described above , the mycelium bears certain stiff , upright appendages of the nature of ( see Plate 42 , figs. 1 , 41 , and Plate 43 , fig. 8 ) : these setce spring from the cells of the hyphse at various points in their course , and , from their position and mode of origin , are probably to be regarded , morphologically speaking , as lateral branchlets which become elongated in a direction more or less perpendicular to the plane of the leaf .
Such a seta grows very rapidly and soon reaches its limit : the cylindrical cells composing it are relatively longer than those of the hyphse , but resemble them in other respects ( the walls being , perhaps , somewhat stiffer and more deeply coloured ) and taper above , in the simple types , or become variously branched .
In most Meliolas the setce are especially aggregated around the perithecia , forming circles of stiff radii springing from what Bornet terms the " receptacle " : they are also developed , however , from various isolated points of the mycelium bearing no direct relation to the fruit-bodies .
The forms of the setce vary from a simple , upright or curved filament , to structures branched like antlers , trifurcate , twisted , \amp ; c. , a , t the tip Plate 43 , fig. 8 and Bornet 's figures* ) : Bornet has made use of these details in classifying the formal species , and although it is doubtful whether the more similar types are constant , there can be no objection to their use much in the same manner as the appendages of siphece , \amp ; c. , are used to distinguish the forms of that group .
Bornet regards the origin of the setae at points on the mycelium as marking out places where new perithecia are to be developed : I cannot say that this idea is altogether a false one , but investigation of the development of the fruit-bodies seems to show that at least no necessary connexion exists between the two phenomena .
As to the function of the setae , little or nothing can be stated .
The earlier suggestions of Sprengel and Fries ( as quoted by Bornet ) that they may be organs for the exit of the spores cannot be accepted : not only on the ground of the disproportion * Loc .
cit. , plates 21 and 22 , figs. 6 , 15 , 1G , \amp ; c. between the numbers , but also because the spores are too large to pass through the setae , even supposing the cavity continuous and ending in an ostiolum , which is not in the case .
I have often tried to discover conidia or other bodies in connexion with the setae , but have been forced to the belief that they have no function whatever connected with spore-production .
One is not now impressed with the necessity for assigning any special function to such structures : if the setae are merely free-growing branches of the otherwise appressed , creeping mycelium , there is nothing surprising in the fact that some differences in form and consistency are correlated with their sub-aerial habit .
This is at least no more remarkable than that the looser branches of an alga , like Coleochcete , should have a facies slightly differing from that of the cell series comprising the lower , creeping , appressed parts of the thallus .
The collection of setae immediately around the " fruit-body " simply results , immediately , from the vigorous development of hyphse which accompanies the later stages of formation of the perithecium : this mass of setigerous hyphae , which seems comparable with the formation of haustoriaand such-like organs in other fungi during the fruit development , was called the " receptacle " by Bornet .
As to a possible protective influence of the circles of setae , the question must be left open until we know more of the conditions : in some cases , at any rate , the do not arise until the perithecium is completely formed , and the spores nearly ripe .
The perithecium , when completely developed , is a globular or sub-globular body , consisting of a shining black or brown external case , the outer thick walls of which appear regularly embossed , and an internal mass composed of asci and spores , \amp ; c. The embossed pattern on the outer walls results from the thick-walled cells , of which it is composed , projecting at their free surfaces : where the cells join each other forming polygonal figures they do not so project.* What may be termed the base of the perithecium is sessile on the mycelium : at the opposite pole , or apex , is frequently a slight papilla , not obviously pierced by any pore .
Bornet , noting this fact , imagines that the dehiscence takes place below , the whole upper part of the perithecium becoming broken away by a circular rupture at the base .
In some forms , at least , the spores escape through an opening at the apex : how far this is general I do not know ( Plate 42 , fig. 43 ) , but facts exist to render it probable that a minute and dilatable pore occurs in others .
Vertical sections of the mature perithecium show that within the firm , deep-coloured , external wall is a lining of softer cells , with swollen envelopes and of a more or less flattened form : this inner lining of the perithecium extends two or three cell-series deep , and is slightly yellow or pale-brown in colour ( see Plate 44 , fig. 33 , and Plate 42 , fig. 34 ) .
In the cavity thus enclosed are the groups of asci in various stages of development : these delicate , clavate sacs contain spores , or have emptied them into the semi-gelatinous , granular matrix around .
With these preliminaries , I may pass on to consider and describe the development of the perithecium , as followed * See Bornet 's figures , loc. tit .
, plates 21 and 22 .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERlTHECIUM OF MELIOLA .
step by step on a species of Meliola which I have investigated with no slight success : * this will be found to throw light on the morphology of these fungi from the best of sources\#151 ; development\#151 ; and aid in a more critical estimation of their proposed systematic position .
After describing in detail the origin , mode of development and fate of the fruit and spores , I propose , therefore , to examine the relations of the Meliolas to Erysiphe and ' other fungi .
On examining portions of the epiphyllous mycelium bearing the short , pyriform , lateral branchlets so often referred to above , one frequently discovers specimens presenting the appearances depicted at figs. 9 , 10 , 11 , \amp ; c. The simple pyriform body , after becoming more swollen , has suffered division into two portions or cells by a septum , usually vertical to the plane of the mycelium and leaf , and passing diagonally across the cavity with a slight curve , so as to abut on the outer walls at right angles , or nearly so .
The originally unicellular protuberance becomes in this manner divided into two more or less unequal cells , and it will be shown in the sequel that these two cells have , from the first , each a different destiny in the formation of the fruit .
For this reason I have indicated in the drawings , by shading , a difference which does not present itself in the natural object at this stage .
The more apical cell , which is smaller and shaded darker in fig. 9 ( Plate 42 ) , may be indicated throughout by the letter A : it will be found that this cell produces the central ascogenous tissue of the young perithecium , while the other ( which will be referred to as cell B ) originates the outer portions of the case or perithecium wall .
Following close upon the preliminary division above described , a septum appears across the larger of the two cells , cutting the first-formed division wall at right angles , or nearly so : this is rapidly followed by another septum ( Plate 43 , fig. 10 ) , and so the larger cell ( B ) becomes cut up into three .
Following upon these , a number of further divisions in planes at right angles to the preceding are soon established ( figs. 11 to 17 ) , and at the same time , though much more slowly , one or two more division walls are formed in the cell A , thus cutting it up into a short series of about three cells ( figs. 14 , 15 ) .
If the above description has been followed , it becomes clear that the division of the more rapidly growing cell , B , results in the production of a sheet of cells affixed , so to speak , to the few-celled mass resulting from the slow division of A : such being the case , and the sheet extending as new divisions are formed , the cells resulting from A become gradually enveloped more and more in those resulting from B. A comparison of the figs. 9 to 17 will facilitate matters here , and for convenience of description hereafter , and in consideration of its destiny , we may term the mass of cells produced from A the " ascogenous core"\#151 ; or simply the core .
At a stage which may conveniently be considered the next one to fig. 11 , the cells resulting from the division of B are observed to be extending as a curved layer over the " core " of cells formed by A. If , at this stage , the young fruit-body is cut off , I must take this opportunity of thanking Professor De Bart for kind suggestions with respect to this work .
590 MR. H. M. WARD ON THE MORPHOLOGY AND THE and allowed to roll over in fluid under the microscope , the form and arrangement are found to be somewhat as sketched in fig. 12 ( Plate 43 ) , where a represents the view from below , b that from the side , and c an end elevation of the structure .
The cell A , in fact , is becoming gradually enfolded by the layer of cells derived from B , a process which results , at a later period ( Plate 43 , fig. 17 ) in the almost complete tucking in of the " core " as the centre of a subglobular mass of cells .
As this process of " invagination by epiboly " ( as it would be termed in the case of an embryo ) goes on , the " core " has been more slowly cut up into cells\#151 ; at first by walls perpendicular to its long axis , and then by septa in other planes at right angles \#151 ; and the sub-globular body thus produced lies with the open part towards the epidermis .
After this period , two events occur : 1st , the cells of the " core , " possessing very thin walls , acquire a different aspect from those of the outer shell ; their finely granular protoplasm makes them appear denser and more opaque , shining through the latter until this becomes too thick to be transparent ; 2nd , the open part of the growing perithecium becomes closed over , and the internal structures can no longer be made out without the aid of actual sections .
At this point my observations have failed to decide which of two possible modes of growth take place : Is the covering in of the " core " completed simply by the extension and closing in of the edges of the outer layer ; or are cells , cut off from the " core " below , intercalated , so to speak , into the open gap ?
One is led to expect by analogy that the former process takes place , but some events lead to the suspicion that such may not be the case .
At the stage corresponding to fig. 19 ( Plate 43 ) , the young perithecium appears almost opaque , very little light passing through the dark-coloured and thick outer walls ; from below , however , the larger cells composing the " core " can be readily seen in the optical section , shining by means of their dense , fine-grained contents through the shell .
In the next stages , the " core " can only be seen dimly through the outer envelope ( Plate 44 , fig. 20 ) , even after treatment with reagents , or , as in figs. 21 and 22 , after cutting or tearing off some of the outer cells .
Nothing but a fortunate vertical section through the young fruit at or near this stage will decide finally whether the lower side is covered in by the meeting of the outer shell edges , or by partial " delamination " from the lower side of the " core , " and this I have not succeeded in obtaining .
The thick , dark outer walls have now become so opaque , that optical sections fail to determine the course of events ; and treatment with reagents does not afford evidence sufficiently satisfactory to decide the questions , since it seems impossible to remove the colouring matter .
Potassic hydrate or weak acids do , it is true , render the structures a little more translucent after some time ; but even the extreme resort of heating in weak chromic acid has only yielded partial results , and with this slight information on the point I have reluctantly been compelled to content myself for the present .
A comparison of figs. 17 to 21 certainly suggests that the process of envelopment is completed by the outer layer of cells DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERITHECIUM OF MELIOLA .
591 derived from the repeated and rapid division of the cell B , and this view may be recommended on the ground of analogies with the , to be examined hereafter ; but , while figs. 19 and 20 by no means decide the point , we shall find that in the perithecium of another species of Meliola ( or an allied form ) the construction almost certainly proceeds by continued cutting up and " delamination " of the results of division of one cell .
Be this as it may , the young perithecium now consists of the following parts :\#151 ; A central " core " of delicate-walled , colourless or yellowish cells , very rich in finely granular protoplasm , and , surrounding this completely , a single layer of cells with thick , hard , dark-coloured walls ( especially those on the exterior surface ) ; the whole mass is attached to the hypha from which it originated by a very short pedicle or joint ( see Plates 43 , 44 , figs. 19\#151 ; 24 ) .
At a period slightly later than the above , the cells of the outer layer are becoming multiplied by tangential walls , and those of the inner core by radial and horizontal divisions : these processes go on for some time , until the whole perithecium is a complex of many small cells , the outer of which become firmer and darker-coloured , the inner delicate and full of fine-grained protoplasm as described .
No trace of the internal structure is , however , visible now from the outside .
On isolating a perithecium at this stage\#151 ; a matter of no slight difficulty , but practicable with a slender knife used under a low power of the microscope\#151 ; it presents the forms shown in fig. 25 ( Plate 44 ) , on being rolled over .
Above , the outer surface curves equally away from the centre , and the slightly projecting walls of the cells give it an appearance of being embossed ( fig. 25 , From below ( fig. 25 , y , ) , the object looks very different ; the surface is much flattened and nearly circular , and from many of the cells are processes developing as hyphse in all directions .
These radiating processes creep close along the surface of the leaf , to which the fruit-body is also appressed , and no doubt serve to give a much firmer hold for the fruit ; at first their thin walls are only of a pale brown hue , but rapidly acquire the thickness and deep colour of the fruit and mycelium .
Seen from the side , the young perithecium presents the appearance sketched at fig. 25 , z. It is these radiating anchoring hyphae which form collectively what Bornet terms the " receptacle , " and from them , at a later period , the bristling setce found around the mature fruit are developed .
From the stage just described the development of the fruit-body proceeds rapidly ; but , since the objects now become of a more manageable size , I have been able , by actual sections through .the perithecium embedded in spermaceti or gum , or , better still , in elder pith , to obtain some insight into the processes going on even in the centre of the mass of cells .
At stages just prior to the one last described , the central core of thin walled cells\#151 ; which it will be remembered has been derived from continuous divisions of the cell A is commencing to divide up by septa in several directions ( figs. 23 , 24 ) , while the outer layers surrounding this\#151 ; derived primitively from B , and , possibly , in part from A\#151 ; are divided more regularly by tangential walls , followed by radial ones at right angles as the area enlarges .
As the increasing small and delicate cells of the core become formed more rapidly , a certain tendency at least to a regular arrangement can be recognised in the later stages , as shown in such sections as figs. 28 and 29 , ( Plate 44 ) , and fig. 2 7(Plate 42 ) : this regularity becomes interfered with by the mutual pressure of the cells , and the outer ones , of which the walls are especially soft and swollen , become flattened and pulled in the tangential direction , and only marked by the very granular yellowish protoplasm in their diminishing cavities .
In the central lower part of the core , vertical sections at this , and slightly later stages , show that certain cells , with very delicate outlines and finely granular refractive contents , maintain their larger size and upright arrangement , and are by these peculiarities well distinguished as a special group or tuft of cells ( see Plate 44 , fig. 28 and Plate 42 , fig. 31 ) .
In oblique ( Plate 44 , fig. 29 ) and horizontal ( fig. 30 ) sections passing through the lower third of the developing perithecium , they can also be readily distinguished by their special peculiarities , and no question can be entertained as to their significance in the formation of the essential parts of the fruit-body .
This group of cells is the forerunner of the young asci , and may be termed the Ascogonium .
As development proceeds continuously , the outermost layers acquiring thicker and more deeply coloured walls , the above named group of upright cells become relatively larger , increasing slowly in number by a few divisions , while the diffluent , compressed cells between them and the outermost layers slowly give up their contents , and become reduced to mere granular streaks embedded in a jelly-like mass of swollen and fused cell-walls ( see Plate 42 , fig. 31 ) .
This process is exactly comparable to what takes place in the developing embryo-sac of certain phanerogams , * or of the pollen mother cells in the anther , t in so far as the larger cells clearly develop at the expense of material derived from those around .
The tuft of successful cells thus nourished is , in fact , the " ascogonium " of this fungus .
At a slightly later stage than the one last figured , the space formerly occupied by the deliquescent remains of small cells is filled with an almost transparent semi-fluid mucus , in which a few bright granules are embedded ; while the lower part of the perithecium contains a tuft of asci in various stages of development ( see Plate 44 , fig. 33 ) , and which have evidently proceeded from the large cells of figs. 28 and 31 ( Plates 44 and 42 ) , which have devoured all , or nearly all , the smaller soft cells surrounding them .
Sections of perithecia at a stage between those shown in figs. 31 and 33 ( Plates 42 and 44 ) have not been obtained , but enough evidence has been secured to enable me to conclude that the asci are the direct result of the transformation of the elongated upright cells of fig. 31 ( Plate 42 ) , which are nourished at the expense of the cells of the inner layers .
Partly from the brittle nature of the outer walls , enclosing a space * Cf .
, amongst others , Strasburger , ' Angiospermer nnd Gymnospermen .
' t Cf , Strasburger , 'Ban nnd Wachsthum der Zell-haute/ 1882 .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERITHEOIUM OF MELIOLA .
filled with almost fluid contents , and partly from the extreme delicacy of the young asci , I have been unable to decide whether any distinct branching of the ascogenous cells precedes the formation of the definite asci : probably such is the case .
We have now followed the development of the perithecium to the period when it may be considered ripe : a period of some duration , since the asci are continually and successively formed in the tuft for some time .
Fortunate sections of the perithecium wall at this stage have yielded the following information .
In the centre of the apical wall , where a slight protuberance sometimes occurs , the cells of the inner wall are found to radiate towards a pale translucent spot or pore ( see Plate 42 , fig. 36 ) , and although I have not been able to obtain sections exactly through this , and am therefore unable to affirm positively that it is an actual pore , there seems little doubt that this is at least the weak point through which the spores escape from the ripe 'perithecium , no doubt forced through by the swelling of the materials around .
Bornet* believes that the perithecium opens by a circular rupture at the base : I have tried to confirm this , but failed , and am strongly persuaded that the apical spot figured is the point of exit for the spores .
That a minute pore should escape observation from without is not remarkable : the reflection of the light from the black shining outer cells might easily obscure it .
The general structure of these walls has already been described , and fig. 34 , drawn from an extremely fortunate and very thin section , shows the details .
The very young ascus presents no features of importance to distinguish it from that of many other pyrenomycetous fungi .
In its earliest state it is recognisable as a single thin-walled , club-shaped cell , tapering to a point at the lower attached end , and filled with finely granular , yellowish protoplasm ( see Plate 44 , fig. 37 , a. ) : sometimes a small pale , refractive nucleus-like point is seen in the protoplasm .
As the young ascus grows longer , and its protoplasm increases in quantity , a fine , sharp division line makes its appearance somewhat oblique to the long axis of the whole ( fig. 37 , c. ) ; this is soon followed by a second , similar longitudinal division , in a plane at right angles to the former ( fig. 37 , d. ) , and four well-defined masses are thus marked out .
These , the yroung spores , do not include the whole of the protoplasm ( fig. 37 , d. and f ) , but lie in a scanty matrix of granular matter , closely opposed face to face , and following the curve of the enlarging ascus wall on their outer walls .
As the four , almost fusiform young spores increase in size , and acquire more distinct membranous envelopes , they come to lie somewhat more loosely in the cavity of the ascus , and may cross one another in accommodation to the space at disposal .
Then appear cross-septa ( fig. 37 , e. , / ) , dividing the material of the spore into a number of compartments varying from three to five\#151 ; or , in one case , a single septum only is formed\#151 ; and vacuoles and granules appear in the hitherto almost homogeneous contents .
As the spores ripen , their cross-septa become more firmly marked , their outer walls thicker , and , gradually brown or nearly black in colour , like the hyphse of the * Op. cit. , p. 261 , developed mycelium ; the side walls of the separate compartments also become bulged out slightly , giving the mature spore the appearance of a long oval body , constricted at intervals ( see Plate 42 , fig. 39 ) .
Very commonly one or two oily-looking drops accumulate in the compartments of the ripe spore .
Such is the typical mode of development of the perithecium , asci and spores .
I have found no modifications of importance from a morphological point of view ; it should be recorded , however , that the number of spores in the ascus varies from two to eight .
Sometimes in the same perithecium one finds asci in which one , two , or three spores develop at the expense of their presumably weaker neighbours ( fig. 38 ) , in other cases the number two appears constant , only one complete division occurs in the ascus ( fig. 38 ) , while in one case to be referred to later , the asci normally produce eight two-chambered spores ( Plate 42 , fig. 43 ) .
On germination , which may take place soon after their emission from the ripe perithecium , the spores seem to behave generally in the same manner ; one or several simple protuberances emerge from any of the partitioned chambers ( see Plate 42 , fig. 40 ) , and proceed to develop into a typical mycelium , often with a preliminary formation of the rudimentary haustoria referred to in an earlier part of this paper .
This mycelium grows rapidly in moist weather , forming branches , setae and fruit-bodies as before .
In some seasons the leaves of various plants may be seen covered with hundreds of these young mycelia , which dry up when the atmosphere does , only to renew their growth with the rains .
Before passing on to the consideration of the pathological influence of these fungi , and of their systematic position , I will record a few details concerning a form of Meliola which varies somewhat from the typical cases hitherto considered ; at any rate , it seems to differ more from the six or eight forms to which the above description refers , than they do among themselves .
The species to be examined has only been found on the leaves of Pavetta indica , and its mycelium forms more spreading and less defined patches on the leaves of that plant , than the easily recognisable sooty patches of the other Meliolcis .
The main features of its mycelium , \amp ; c. , are shown in fig. 41 , and differ chiefly in the delicate straggling hyphse , with a paler brown colour and no trace of haustoria .
The branching is very irregular , and somewhat like that of the form figured at fig. 3 , but the short , lateral branchlets are not always ovoid , but often have sinuous , almost angular outlines , reminding one of the similar structures in except that the latter bear distinct haustoria .
The setae are here quite simple , short , and not so hard and brittle as usual ; they are also produced in smaller numbers than in the more typical species .
The greatest peculiarities , however , are offered by the fruit-bodies , or perithecia .
Each of these arises as before by the successive dividing up of a short , lateral branchlet ( Plate 44 , fig. 42 ) , with this difference , that the rapidly following septa permit no recognition of primitive cells destined to form the outer walls , ascogonium , \amp ; c. , as before .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERITHECIUM OF MELIOLA .
After a few radial , vertical , and horizontal walls have been formed , tangential septa ( fig. 42 , d. ) make their appearance cutting out series of cells which are to form the outer walls , and which become firmer and more deeply coloured , from an inner cell mass which gives rise to the ascogonium much as before .
Only a few asci are formed , in each of which arise eight small oval uniseptate spores , which acquire a pale brown colour as they ripen ( fig. 42 , f , and Plate 42 , fig. 43 ) .
The mature perithecium is shaped like a pear or top , the broad end attached to the hypha by a short pedicel , the narrow free end , or apex , becoming thin and diffluent in order to allow of the escape of the spores ( fig. 43 ) .
Very few or no setce are formed around the perithecium , and these of the same simple type as those scattered on the mycelium ( Plate 42 , fig. 41 ) .
The whole structure of the fruit-body is , therefore , much simpler than that of the above described forms , and , from the semi-translucent characters of the thinner cell-walls , allows the main details to be made out by optical sections only .
In some of the dark-coloured cells of freshly prepared specimens , a bluish tint is often observable ; I have not seen this in any other similar form .
In no case have I succeeded in tracing a distinct alterative or destructive action of the Meliolas on the cells of leaves to which they are attached .
In many instances , as , for example , thick leathery leaves like those of Memecylon \amp ; c. , the haustoria seem to have no function beyond that of holdfasts ; in others , such as Pavetta , Triumfetta , \amp ; c. , attacked leaves certainly suffer from the presence of the fungus .
Nevertheless , I cannot trace this to any direct action of the mycelium ; the contents of the cells show no effects which can be regarded as due to the fungus mycelium directly .
We must conclude , therefore , that where the life of the leaf is interfered with at all , it is indirectly ; the dense crust of a well-developed Meliola no doubt obstructs the play of physiological functions in an obvious manner , by obscuring it from light , blocking up stomata , \amp ; c. It is now possible to consider the question of the systematic position of these remarkable and interesting fungi .
Bornet , * following Fries and Leveill^ , places Meliola near the old group of Sphaerias , with especial reference to Erysiphe .
I have already quoted the view of Fries that the Meliolas may be considered tropical representatives of our Erysiphece , and Berkeley !
takes the same position .
These opinions appear to have been based simply on the resemblance in habit and the more obvious anatomical characters , and on the fact that no Erysiphe is known in the tropics .
The detail of structure , and especially of the development of the fruit-bodies above described , enable us to criticise these views from a somewhat firmer standpoint .
Apart from minor points of resemblance between Meliola and the typical Erysiphecey such as the haustoria ( not well developed in ) , the asci , \amp ; c. , there can be no question as to certain points of agreement in the structure and development of the perithecia ; nevertheless , the origin of the fruit-body in the two groups is not obviously similar , and at first sight the differences may seem greater than they really are .
* Op. tit .
, p. 266 .
f Introd .
to * Crypt .
Bot. , ' p. 275 .
In the typical simpler Erysiphece , such as Podosphaera , as is well known from De Bary 's classical researches/ " the " carpogonium"and " antheridium " arise each as a short lateral branch from separate hyphae , at the point where two hyphae cross : each becomes cut off by a septum , which is formed close to the parent hypha in the case of the pyriform " carpogonium " and about half way up the curved " antheridium " branch .
The free end of the latter becomes closely applied to the top of the , and fertilisation\#151 ; possibly not complete in a physiological sense , however\#151 ; is said to be complete .
After this process numerous branchlets arise from the base of the antheridium filament ( and also from the base of the , grow rapidly and with numerous segments , and invest the carpogonium , which meanwhile begins to be ( more slowly ) cut up into cells .
In Eurotiumt we have an essentially similar process , except in minute details , and the antheridium is a branch springing from the same hypha which bears the carpogonium , and arises just beneath the latter .
Here , as before , the peritheeium envelope is formed , chiefly by the rapid overgrowth of cells derived from the antheridium branch .
It is quite conceivable that a form allied to and Eurotium , \amp ; c. , might have the unicellular carpogonium and antheridium arising quite in contact at their bases from the same branch .
If we now compare the above with the succession of events in the development of Meliola , the following points of analogy seem to me sound .
The original pyriform branchlet\#151 ; containing in itself , so to speak , the elements of the fruit-body\#151 ; after the first division ( Plate 42 , fig. 9 ) , may be considered as establishing morphologically an " archeccirpium and an antheridial branch\#151 ; or the latter may be considered as containing in itself the antheridium , plus the elements of the perithecium wall .
If the cells A and B ( fig. 9 ) became further developed , and .
diverged at their apices , we should , have no difficulty in seeing these points of homology .
Thus much cannot but be allowed .
The cell A resembles a true archecaipium in so far that it slowly produces the ascogonium and asci ; the homology will not be weakened , but the contrary , if further research shows that part of the perithecium wall results from cells derived from A. The cell B so far acts as an antheridium branch in that it is closely applied to A , divides up more rapidly , and thus produces most\#151 ; perhaps all\#151 ; of the perithecium wall .
The above may possibly suggest some difficulties to those who have not followed the recent progress in our knowledge of sexual organs and their homologies in the lower fungi .
It has of late been shown to be not improbable , but on the contrary very likely , that we should view the Erysiphece as a group connecting the higher Ascomy- * * " Beitr .
z. Morph , u. Phys. d. Pilze , " R. iii .
, 1870 .
f Of .
De Bart , loc. cit. J De Bary , Beitrage IV .
, proposes to use this word as denoting that part of the body which becomes the ascus and pedicel in Podosjohaera .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERITHECIUM OF MELIOLA .
cetes , on the one hand , and the Phycornycetes^(.Peronosporece and Saprolegnice ) on the other : the evolution of the latter group seems undoubtedly attended by a fusion of parts before separated\#151 ; a withdrawal of the sexual organs , so to speak , into one another , \#151 ; and De Baby has followed this out with marvellous skill and success in a number of forms passing from Pythium , through the Peronosporece , to certain Saprolegnice , in which the male sexual organ ( " antheridiam , " " pollinodium " ) is normally suppressed .
Whether or not we suppose , with De Bary , that the took origin from some Peronospora-like form , it seems reasonable to look upon Meliola and its immediate allies as a branch group derived from the Erysiphe stem , either from the ancestor of Erysiphe itself or from ancestors which gave rise to Eurotium and Erysiphe , and that this group has become developed in tropical - lands along lines more or less parallel to those along which the European forms have proceeded in temperate climates , being , in fact\#151 ; though not in the strictest sense perhaps\#151 ; " representative species .
" Be this view entertained or rejected , I am strongly impressed with the necessity for further and closer investigation of the very remarkable group of fungi centering around or near the Meliolce , since they will probably fill up yet more completely the gap\#151 ; partially bridged over , it is true\#151 ; between the lower and higher Ascomycetes .
Description o Plates .
Fig. 1 .
Meliola sp. with portion of epidermis of Memecylon .
On the mycelium are setce , branchlets , and fruit-bodies in various stages of development.\#151 ; Zeiss D. Fig. 2 .
Mycelium of another species of the same , found on the leaves of Schutereia ( Conv .
) , with portion more highly magnified.\#151 ; Gundl .
J and Zeiss D. Fig. 3 .
Portion of mycelium of a species of Meliola on Triumfetta ( Tiliacece).\#151 ; Zeiss D. Fig. 4 .
Portions of more advanced mycelium of fig. 2 more highly magnified , and showing various forms of lateral branchlets.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 5 .
Portions of mycelium on Memecylon showing mode of branching and young fruit-bodies.\#151 ; Gundl .
-J and Zeiss D. Fig. 6 .
Vertical section through portion of mycelium where fruit-body is being formed .
The section is not median.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 7 .
End of hypha with three cap-like thickenings and pore-like spot ( ?
) seen from below.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 8 .
Various forms of setce in plan and elevation.\#151 ; Zeiss D and J. * Vide Da Baby , " Beitr .
z. Morph .
, u. Phys. de Pilze , " R. IV .
, 1881 .
Fig. 9 .
End of hypha ( with one cap-like thickening ) bearing lateral pyriform branchlet which is to become a Perithecium .
The first oblique septum has already appeared , the smaller cell ( A ) represents the ascogonium , \amp ; c. , and is shaded darker ; the larger one ( B ) will divide up more rapidly , and enclose the cell A and its progeny .
Figs. 10 and 11 .
Further stages in the development of the young Perithecium .
The cell B is becoming divided.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 12 .
Young Perithecium seen from below ( .
) , from the side ( .
) , and from one end ( c ) .
In all , the dark cell is the one marked ( A ) in fig. 9 ; the remainder have resulted from the growth and division of the cell ( B.)\#151 ; Zeiss J. Figs. 13 and 14 .
Slightly later stages seen from below .
The cell ( A ) has become divided by a cross septum.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Figs. 15 and 16 .
Similar preparations seen from above and below.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 17 .
Somewhat more advanced Perithecium seen from the side .
The cells resulting from the division of A ( " ascogenous core " ) are seen through those formed by B , which are growing over them.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 18 .
Somewhat more advanced stage.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 19 .
Slightly later stage .
The upper figure is seen from above , the lower from below : the latter shows the " ascogenous core."\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 20 .
Similar preparations seen from above ( lower figure ) and below ( upper figure .
) \#151 ; Zeiss J. Figs. 21 and 22 .
Slightly advanced Perithecia cut by the razor .
The " ascogenousc ore " is exposed at the cut parts.\#151 ; Zeiss E. Figs. 23 and 24 .
Similar preparations treated with chromic acid .
The " ascogenous core " is seen enveloped by the cells forming the Perithecium-wall : ail much swollen , and fig. 23 slightly crushed.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 25 , \#151 ; More advanced Perithecium seen from outside and above below ( y. ) , and from the side ( z. ) .
The radiating hyphse ( receptacle ) spring from the external walls below .
\#151 ; Zeiss E. Fig. 26 .
Portion of mycelium with young Perithecium seen from above and below.\#151 ; Zeiss E. Fig. 27 .
Somewhat older Perithecium .
The razor has cut off one side obliquely .
\#151 ; Zeiss J. ( camera ) .
Fig. 28 .
Vertical section through young Perithecium about this stage .
The ascogenous cells in the middle are distinguished by their larger size and arrangement .
\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 29 .
Oblique ( nearly horizontal and median ) section through the same.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 30 .
Horizontal section above the base of same.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 31 .
Somewhat older stage in vertical section .
The ascogenous cells in the centre are enlarging at the expense of those around.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 32 .
Portion of outer wall with disorganised cells lining it.\#151 ; Zeiss J. DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERITHECIUM OF MELIOLA .
599 Fig. 33 .
Vertical section through nearly ripe Perithecium , showing asci and spores embedded in the gelatinous mass produced by the disorganisation of the unemployed cells.\#151 ; Zeiss D. Fig. 34 .
Portion of outer wall of latter in vertical section.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 35 .
Vertical\#151 ; not median\#151 ; section through ripe Perithecium ( and portion of epidermis of host-plant ) , showing crowds of spores .
Fig. 36 .
Thin slice from top of similar Perithecium .
A pore-like spot is seen in the centre of the radical marking .
Figs. 37 , 38 and 39 .
Various stages in the development of the asci and spores.\#151 ; Zeiss J. Fig. 40 .
Germinating spores.\#151 ; Zeiss D. and E. Fig. 41 .
Portion of mycelium of a species of found on , showing mycelium , setae , and young Perithecia.\#151 ; Zeiss J. and D. Figs. 42 and 43 .
Development of Perithecia and extrusion of spores .
Phil. Trans.18 83 .
Plate 42 .
Phil. Trcuns.1883 .
Plate 4 ?
3 .
Tig .
18 .
West , jBfev/ mau \amp ; , C ' HtH"West- JsIewjraaaiL 8e C ?
lit.h .

