An experimental Examination of the Electric and Chemical Theories of Galvanism .
By William Ritchie , A.M. F.R.S. Rector of the Royal Academy at Tain .
Read May 7 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 361 .
] After observing that the theory of galvanism originally proposed by Volta , and generally termed the Electric theory , is still the universally received doctrine among continental philosophers , the authlor adduces several experiments proving the fallacy of the principles on which that theory is founded .
He points out the inconclusiveness of the reasoning by which it has been inferred that dissimilar metals , by being simply placed in contact with one another , are instantly thrown into opposite electric states ; for in all the experiments which have been made with a view of establishing this fundamental principle of the electric theory , the metals have been exposed to the oxidizing action of the air , which is a constant source of electric disturbance , and the operation of which has been strangely overlooked .
The author found , by forming galvanic circles with two different metals and an interposed acid , that when he used different kinds of acid , or varied the degree of their dilution , the electro-magnetic effects , as measured by a delicate galvanometer , bear no sort of relation to the conducting power of the fluid , as is assumed in the Voltaic hypothesis .
He deduces the same conclusion from experiments made with an apparatus by which the fluid is confined in a rectangular box , divided by a membranous diaphragm into two compartments , so as to allow of the addition of an acid to the fluid contained in one of the compartments , and thereby limiting its action to one of the metallic surfaces .
By means of another contrivance , the author ascertained that of two different metals , the one which , when acted upon by an acid , combines with the greatest quantity of oxygen , as measured by the volume of hydrogen disengaged , is always positive with respect to the other metal .
Even two pieces of the same metal , differing in hardness , will be acted upon by the same acid in different degrees , and may thus be brought into different states of electricity .
In general it is the harder of the two pieces of metal which becomes positive ; but with steel the reverse obtains .
It would appear , however , that with the same pairs of metallic discs , the direction of the electric current is determined by the nature of the acid employed : thus nitrous acid , acting upon zinc , copper , or iron , gives rise to a current in a direction opposite to the current which is produced by the sulphuric , nitric , or muriatic acids .
Variations in the temperature of the metals will also occasion diversities in the results , not ; hitherto satisfactorily explained on any theory .
From one experiment the author is led to infer that an acid is capable of combining with a pure metal , withount the latter being previously reduced to the : state of an oxide .

