12 .
" On Depressions of the Wet-bulb Thermometer during the Hot Season at Ahmednuggur , in the Deccan .
" By Colonel Sykes ; F.R.S. &amp;c. Received June !
7 , 1851 .
The author states that he is indebted to Major Williamn Coghlan for the tables of hourly d6pressions of the wet-bulb thermometer during the months of March and April of the present year , which form the subject of this communication , and which are a necessary supplement to his paper recently published in the Philosophical Transactions .
The observations at Ahmednuggur , lat. 19 ?
05 ' 49 " N. , long .
74ยง 48 ' 10 " , elevation above the sea 1911 feet , which were undertaken byv Drr .
Frbes Watson , commenced on the 18th of March , and were continued to the 14th of April inclusive .
They were made hourly frt0 6 A.M. to 9 P.M. , giving 16 hourly records daily ; but on6 the 24th and 29th of March , and on the 4th 8th and 10th of April , they were contirued throughoutth twentyfour hours .
The instruments employed were a dryand a wet-bulb thermometer , by Adie , perfectly aike and giving precisely the same indications when both were ry , and aself-registering thermometer .
Tey were suspended on a platform attached to a window under the verandah of the house , with a N.W. exposure , and were protected from radiation and reflexion of heat from the ground .
As , from some preliminary observations , it appeared that the depression of the wet-bulb varied in every case with the intensity and duration of the draught of air upon it , in each observation a slight current of air was produced by a fan near the mouth of a funnel , the small end of which abutted on the wet-bulb , and the operation was continued until no further depression of the thermometer could thus be produced ; a stronger current of air was then forced on the bulb by means of a large double bellows ; and the result of each operation was recorded .
To obviate the anomlies which might arise from single observations , and to fix a mean state , for each hour , of the temperature of the air , the temperature of evaporation , and the mean depression of the wet-bulb , the means of these elements have been taken and are presented in a table .
In this table are also given the dew-points as determined by means of Mr. Glaisher 's factors and by Dr. Apjoli ?
s formula , with the differences by the two methods .
The author remarks that the first feature which presents itself , in running the eye over this table , is the enormous amount of the depression of the wetbulb compared with our European experience .
In March , the mean depression at no hour was less than 14 ?
*8 at 7 A.M. , increasing to 290 ?
6 at 3 P.M. ; in April , the mean depression was never less than 170.3 at 7 A.M. , increasing to 29 ?
'9 at 3 P.M. ; and many observations necessarily much exceeded the maxima means .
The next feature is the increase of the mean depression with that of the mean temperature , from 6 A.M. until 3 P.M. , and then a decline with the decline of temperature until 9 P.M. ; but not in the same ratio as the increase in the morning .
With reference to the practical application of these observations with a view to determine the amount of moisture in the atmosphere , or to fix the dew-point , the author remarks that it will be seen from this table that Mr. Glaisher 's factors give a higher dewpoint than Dr. Apjohn 's formula , varying in March from 6 ?
.1 at 8 A.M. to 11 ?
09 at 6 P.M. , and in April from 50.6 at 7 A.M. to 10 ?
'4 at 9 P.M. ; and these varying discrepancies do not appear to have gradations of increment or decrement dependent upon increase or diminution of mean temperature , or increase or decrease of the depression of the wet-bulb .
These remarks apply to the means of the observations ; but with reference to isolated observations , the discrepancies by the two methods become much greater .
On the 9th of April , at 8 P.M. , the temperature of the air being 97 ?
, the wet-bulb with a moderate draught 60 ?
'5 , and with a strong draught 60 ?
, the depressions were respectively 36 ?
05 and 37 ?
, and the dew-point for the latter depression determined by Mr. Glaisher 's factors would be 41'5 , and 12*6 by Dr. Apjohn 's formula .
In illustration of this part of the subject the author gives an extract of a letter from General Cullen , from which it appears that at Cochin on the Malabar coast , the temperature of the air being 960 , the wet-bulb 61 ?
, the dew-point by Jones 's hygrometer 380 , the dew-point by Mr. Glaisher 's factors would be 430'5 , and by Dr. Apjohn 's formula 220'1 .

