]\gt ; 65 IV .
nented Researches on the Electric with the Chloride of Silver Ba ttery .
By DE LA , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , HUGO W. MULLER , Ph. D. , F.R. Received August \mdash ; Rcad November 20 , PAItT UBE-POTENTIAL ; POTENTIAL AT A CONSTANT DISTANCE AND VARIOUS ; NATUR AND PHENOMENA OF THE ELECTRTC ARC .
DURING the course of the experiments described in Part IT .
it could not fail to be noticed that the potential necessary to produce a discharge in partially exhausted tubes diminished with the pressure until a certain ressure had been ined ; that after this minimum had been ched , the potential had to be increased ction rried until last 11,000 cells could produce a .
Although Part II .
contains many measurements from which it would be possible to calculate the tube-potential ( the potential necessary to produce a Qcharge in a tube ) for certain , yet as they would not form a continuous series it was deemed to make a special set of experiments with a constant number of cells , 11,000 .
This we have done in case of hydrogen with a new tube , 162 , 33 inches long and 2 inches in diameter , the distance between the ring and straight-wire terminals being inches .
In commencing each set of experiments the deflection of a tangent-galvanometer was observed when the battery was short-circuited ; by a table previously calculated , the value of the deflection in ohms of resistance per cell could be read off : this multiplied by 11,000 gave the total resistance of the battery ; the was then connected with the terminals and the galvanometer again observed , this gave a less deflection and indicated a greater resistance , which , multiplied by 11,000 , gave the total resistance of the tube and battery ; by subtracting the resistance of the battery the resistance of the tube was ascertained .
Calling the total resistance , the tube-resistance , the tnbe-potential ' Thus in the first experiment cited , the battery , short - , gave a of , indicating a total battery-resistance of 230,000 wlJen the * Phil. Trans. for 1878 , Part I. .
tube was connected a deflection of , indicating a total resistance , tube and battery , of 3,383,000 ohms , 3,383,000\mdash ; tube resistance , .
The deflection observed was found to be different when the ring was made positive and negative respectively ; the following results were obtained in each particular case : SERVATIONS July 3rd , 1878.\mdash ; 11,000 cells , short-circuit , deflection , total batteryohms ; deflections afterwards taken with the tube connected , the ring bein positive .
JULY 4th.\mdash ; 11,000 cells , short-circuit , deflection , total battery-resistance ohms .
* One like in Plate 15 , fig. 1 , Part Two lumiuosities like those in Plate 15 , fig. 2 , Part II .
, Part ] , p. 192 , ECTRJC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVLR BATTERy .
JULY 4th , 4 .\mdash ; ] 1,000 cells , deflection total battery-resistance ohms .
JULY 5th .
\mdash ; 11,000 cells , short-circuit , deflection , total battery-resistance ohms .
JULY 6th.\mdash ; 11,000 cells , short-circuit , deflection , total battery-resistance ohms .
Tube-resistance .
376,300 425 , 100 451,600 575,600 788,500 1,0,37,500 81 : ; 1 .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MULLER ON The following obsel.vations were made when the straight wire was made positive ; when the contact-key ( figs. 2 and 3 , Part I. , page 59 ) was in the fig. 2 , this was effected .
It was noticed that when in this position the current of the battery itself , when shol t , was less than when the key was reversed as for the first series , when the was positiye , the contact being more perfect in one or other case .
JULY 4th.\mdash ; 11,000 cells , short-circuit , deflection , total battery-resistance ohnls .
11,000 cells , -circuit , , tobal battery-resistance ohms .
esistance .
11,000 cells , short-circuit , deflection , total battery-resistance ohms .
ELECTRIC DISCHARGE THE CHLORIDE TERY .
JULY cells , short-circuit , deflection , total ohms .
ohms p The clearly to the resistarlce of a tube diminishing as the pressure decl.eases up to a certain , aftel ' }which it apidly increases ; the pressure of least esistance in case of hydrogen , as shown by the inlents when the ring was positive , being about , 845 M. The esistance increases very rapidly when a pressure of , is eached , and the then becomes nearly a vertical to the bscissae .
At of , the discharge of 11,000 cells onlyjust passed .
Part footnote .
With a pressure of m.m. , , 11,000 cells would pass , with a pressul.e of , even a 1-inch spalk an induction coil would nob pass .
page The diagram ( fig. 71 ) laid down frolD the esults w the was made positive , shows the curve of the observations as actually obtained without being sllloothed .
figure is a reduction to of the origirJal ; the bscissae are as the cube-roots of the various pressures in millionths of an nosphere , and show relatively the numbel of molecules in a given linear , the ordinates are as the number of cells .
The life of the battery is so much exhausted by such a sel.ies of ]nents , in consequence of the length of time the has to emain on while the galvanometer becomes steady , that it was not deemed desirable to extend them to other gases or to repeat the experiments in order to obtain an average smoother hydrogen .
There is , however , no reason to doubt the accuracy of the results as recorded at the moment of each experiment , for the charactel of a tnbe is ltally altering during a continuous series of experiments , and no ecautions can be which will rendel a tube ) solutely constant for any of .
In to avoid running down the battery , other methods for determining the ] ) tial ere subsequently adopted ; these re described in notes A and in the When the observations with the ring positive were laid down with the bscissae representing millionths ( not their cube-roots ) in order to extend scale , nooth W. Dh LA ARD H. W. SHULLER ON THE S S S ELhCTRIC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDI OF FILSEL --Sm .
W. RUE AND H. W. curve drawn ] them , fig. 72 , which is a rednction to one-sixth , the following numbers were off ements on the dia :\mdash ; \ldquo ; ELECTRIC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTECRY .
In order to obtain a smooth curve for the observations beyond the minimum of resistance of the tube , they were again plotted down so as to make the abscissae represent relatively the mean distance of the molecules at the various pressures , as in fig. 73 , which is a reduction of the original diagram to one-third ; this has the effect of extending the scale for this portion of the curve , while it compresses the scale on the opposite side for increasing pressures .
The following were lead The various phenomena of stratification ) served in tube 162 during the course of the preceding series of measurements of tube-potential were very similar to those already described under like conditions in tubes 129 and 139 containing residual hydrogen , in Part II .
, and represented in plates 15 and 16 of that part .
Sketches were made of the various forms of strata , but it would not have been possible to take photographs of these phenomena , as this would have seriously interfered with the colltinuity of the measurements and have prolonged their duration geously f the battery .
A particular phase worthy of record was , however , observed which had been seen before with tube 145 , and which has been described in Part II .
, expel.iment , page 215 .
Of this and two preceding phases , photographs were taken and are shown in Plate 9 , figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 .
The pressure in all three cases was ] ; the current was not measured , but the potential used was 4800 cells .
On making the straight wire negative , the appearance shown in fig. 1 was seen : this is copied from a photograph obtained in 5 seconds .
:S S S S S ELECTRIC DISCHARGHi WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
On making the straight wire positive the phase was produced which is represented in Plate 9 , fig. 2 ; this is copied from a photograph obtained in 7 seconds .
It will be noticed that several of the cup-shaped strata after the first three , counting from the negative terminal , are followed by a secondary series which are tongue-shaped ; these latter kept continually disappearing and reappearing precis.ely in the same position , so that the photograph is in no way indistinct or blurred .
On introducing a resistance of 280,000 ohms , the particular phase to which it is desired to call attention was obtained ; it is represented in Plate 9 , fig. 3 , copied from a photograph obtained in 7 seconds .
The somewhat confused discharge near the positive shown in the previous figure has disappeared , and tongue-shaped strata cross each other like the component lines of the letter X : fig. 3 is an exact copy of the perfectly distinct photograph .
Such complex phenomena present many difficulties in the way of a theoretical explanation of the forces which concur in their production .
Potential necessary to produce a discharge between discs at constant distc , nce and at various pressures .
In the first instance , at the suggestion of Professor MASCART , an experiment was made in order to ascertain whether there was either any condensation or dilatation of the gas about the terminals before the actual passage of the discharge .
In order to do this an apparatus was constructed as shown in fig. 74 .
Ib consists of a glass cylinder , inches inside diameter , the depth of which is accurately the same in every part , inch , so as to ensure the parallelism of two glass discs which close its ends .
Its cubical content , exclusive of the terminals , was found to be 385 cub. centims. These are held in contact with the ends of the cylinder by means of screw-clamps made of ebonite , and the whole apparatus is supported on a tripod ebonite stand , which is fastened to a square wooden foot .
Attached parallel to the top and bottom glass discs , by means of flanged-screw rods , are two brass discs with rounded edges inches diameter ; maintained at a distance of inch , at which the discharge of 11,000 cells would only just take place .
The ends which project through the glass discs are furnished with binding-screws for attaching wires from the battery .
On the side of the cylinder is a tubulure in which is fitted a gauge containing strong sulphuric acid , so as to dry the inside of the apparatus , and to indicate whether any condensation or dilatation of the contained in the cylinder occurs on connecting the metallic discs with the battery by means of the contact-key .
The edges of the cylinder were rubbed with grease , and care was taken to prove that the was perfectly tight , by causing the fluid in the limb of the gauge to stand for some time higher than that in the bulb .
When contact was made with a battery of 9800 cells there was not the slightest indication of any alteration of volume of the contained gas , so that there was neither condensation about the discs which would have caused a Fig. 74 .
contraction , nor repulsion from the discs which would have caused an expansion of volume .
The fluid in the stem , whose internal diameter is inch , was observed with a lens , but not the slightest motion of it took place .
The same result was noticed even when water was substituted for sulphuric acid .
So far , then , as this apparatus , in which the area of the gauge is of that of each disc , would indicate it , the result is entire ] negative .
The discharge between two discs inch in The following series of experiments were made by placing the micrometer-discharger under a bell-jar , and in the first instance adjusting the discs to the striking distance at atmospheric pressure for the battery of 11,000 cells .
Afterwards a less number of cells was connected with the discs and the bell-jar gradually exhausted until the discharge occurred ; the height of the gauge was then read off Then a less and lesser number of cells was connected with the discs and the operation was repeated .
Fig. 75 shows the arrangement of the micrometer discharger under the bell-jar .
The ELECTRIC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
gauge used to indicate the pressure beyond the range of the gauges attached to the pumps .
is not shown in this figure , but is in fig. 81 to be hereinafter described .
Fig. AIR.\mdash ; The discs distant inch .
Temp. C. It will be observed that although the arge took place at a pressure beyond 760 .
in Series I. , it would not do so in II .
and IIL The greater current in some *Would not pass at , 2631 M. MESSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MiJLLER ON THE instances is in a great measure to be attributed to more rod-cells being employed in some of the experiments , as these offer less internal resistance than powder-cells .
HyDROGEN.\mdash ; Discs distant inch CARBONIC ACID.\mdash ; Discs distant inch m.m. The numbers obtained for air , hydrogen , and carbonic acid respectively were plotted down on millimetre scale paper , the abscissae being 1 , the ordinates 1 cells , and curves drawn to give a mean of the several observations .
These appeared to resemble hyperbolic curves so closely that true hyperbolic curves were found ( partly by a geometric construction partly by computation ) which would intersect the mean experimental curves in two points .
The results of experiment * The following , suggested to us by ssor STOKES , is the convenient method employed .
The experimental curvo is laid down on squared paper , as shown by the dotted line in fig. , and two points , and , for the intersection of the proposed hyperbola are selected , and two corresponding points at the same distances respectively on the opposite side of the vertical axis are marked ; through and and through and lines are drawn intersecting in , lines are also drawn through and , and and intersecting in ; a line is drawn through A and and prolonged on each side in the direction of the axis .
The distances of and VA are ascertained in terms of the squared paper , their iprocals taken ELECTRIC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTHiRY .
were again laid down on these new curves , and it will be seen from fig. 76 that they do not differ more from the experimental results than the experimental numbers from each other .
On the diagram the results for each series are distinguished by no dot , one dot or two dots on the crosses marking the position of the observations ( fig. 77 ) .
It would appear , therefore , that the hyperbola fairly the law of discharge between planes .
* and the difference of these reciprocals obtained ; the reciprocal of this difference gives the distance the semi-axis major being the centre ; the ordinates . .
, are obtained by the formula ; the value of , the semi-axis minor , is calculated from the measured ordinate for both the points of intersection and of the experimental curve and the proposed hyperbola , and their mean taken for the value of The calculations are simplified by taking and adding it to to give , taking as and making , the formula then is Fig .
ALEXANDER MACFARLANE has published the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , 1878 , vol. xxvii .
, an elaborate and careful research of the " " Disruptive Discharge of Electricity " " in air and different gases , and between terminals of various forms .
An abstract of this paper will be found in 'Nature , ' December 26 , 1878 , pp. 184 , 185 .
Dr. MACFARLANE ] used a HOLTZ machine and employed higher potentials than those used by us ; he found that the results for the discharge between two discs 4 inches in diameter at various distances up to centims. and with various pressures were satisfactorily represented by the hyperbola .
MhSSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. LLER ON THE Fig. E6 .
ELECTRIC DISCHARGE WITH CHLORlDh ' OF BATTLRY .
The ratios of the sides of the parallelogram between the assymptotes of these hyperbolas differ somewhat , but not much , from each ] other , thus\mdash ; calling CV the transverse axis , CB the conjugate axis . . .
Mean carbonic acid Measurements of the hyperbolic curve gave the results shown in the following tables .
The greatest discordances between the numbers derived from the experimental curves and those from the hyperbolic curves are in the lowest pressures up to about 19 , 25,000 ; the potential necessary for a discharge to take place being less than that required by the law of the hyperbola .
NUMBERS obtained from curves .
The striking distances at atmospheric pressure and various potentials for spherical surfaces 3 inches radius and 15 inch diameter , as given in page 68 , curve VIII .
, and at page 118 , also those for nearly flat surfaces in pages 73 and 118 , Part I. , were reduced to millimetres distance and plotted down in the same way , but 1lot on precisely ) same scale , as the preceding curves for constant distance and various pressures .
Hyperbolic curves were also found which intersected the experimental curves in points .
A reduction of the original diagram is given in fig. 78 .
It will be seen that in the case of spherical , the result having been ' cd S2 MESSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MULLER ON as the avel.age of a great number of experiments , the hyperbola coincides closely with the observations , while in that of plane surfaces , for which only a few experiments were made , the coincidences are not so perfect .
Nevertheless , it would appear that Fig. 78 .
the law of the hyperbola holds equally well for a constant pressure and varying distance as it does for a constant distance and varying ; the obstacle in the way of a discharge being as the number of molecules intervening between the terminals up to a certain point .
In the two cases of spherical and plane surfaces the ratio between the transverse and conjugate axes of the respective hyperbolas laid down on the scale adopted\mdash ; For spherical surfaces . .
Mean 1 , , discs . . . . .
ECTRIC D WITH THE OF SILVEB BATTERY .
distance two discs .
Since the publication of Part I. we have laid down a fresh smooth curve of the striking distance between two flat discs , on the scale of 5 centims. to 1000 cells and 10 centims. for a millimetre , using the followin numbers:\mdash ; Cells .
Inch .
Centimetres .
.3600 4800 Taken from Part I. , page 73 , urve X. Actual observation .
It is not necessary to give a diagram of the curve , which agrees fairly well with the observations ; it ruus\mdash ; Below that for 1200 cells by centim. Through , , 2400 B600 \ldquo ; Below , , 4800 , , by centim. Above , , 5880 , , , , Through , , 6960 Above 8040 , , by centim. Through , , 11,000 From the curve thus laid down the following numbers were deduced : FiMF in volts .
10,000 11,000 11,309 * These were communicated , in April , 1878 , to Professor EVERETT , for his ' Units and Physical Con ' 1879 , pp. 141 , 142 .
The electric arc .
We have already stated that " " the vacuurn tube does not differ essentially from that in other at tmospheric pressures ; be considered as a current in the ordinary acceptance of the term .
We had a strong conviction while writing the above that the stratified discharge in a vacuum tube was simply a magnified lorm of arc , and in consequence we planned out a series of expeliments to test the correctness of this supposition ; these were commenced in October , 1878 , and although not yet concluded , we venture to lay before the Society an account of the results hitherto obtained , as they seem to support the view that the arc and the tified discharge are merely modifications of the same phenomenon .
The experiments were made in a bell-jar , containing the terminals , which could be ally efter having been filled with air or other gas .
One of the terminals * Part II .
, } ELECTRIC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
s5 was fixed to the bottom plate , the other could be adjusted to any distance from it by a rod sliding through a stuffing-box in the glass cover .
The foot of the stand was insulated by a disc of ebonite , on which it stands .
One such bell-jar is represented in fig. 79 .
It is inches ( centims. ) high and inches ( centims. ) in diameter ; its cubical content , obtained by covering the open ends with glass plates and filling with water from a graduated measure , was found to be 3787 cubic centims. This jar was destroyed in the course of the experiments , and was replaced by others .
In the figure an inner tube is shown with a series of holes in it , which was not used on this occasion , but will be spoken of hereafter .
A remarkable phenomenon was observed on making connexion between the termina]s and the battery by means of the discharging key , fig. 80 ( are , ady described in Part I. , page 58 ) , namely , that within certain limits of pressure in the bell-.jar sudden expansion of the gas took place , and that as soon as the connexion broken the gas then as suddenly resumed almost exactly its original volume , showing only a small increase due to a slight elevation of temperature .
The effect was similar to that which would have been produced if an empty bladder suspended between the terminals had been suddenly inflated and as suddenly emptied .
We communicated observation unofficially to our friend Professor STOKES in October , 1878 .
This nenon was quite unexpected , and being difficult to account for , was made the object of special study by means of an arrangement pparatus as shown in fig. 81 .
The glass cover of the bell-jar is furnished with a stop-cock which communicates with a gas-holder , and in the bottom plate there is a -tube connected to two other stop-cocks , one of which communicates with the ]Jumps , the there with a about 3 feet high .
The right hand of the gauge dips into a ngular glass cistern , the front face of which is polished to facilitate the reading ; this limb is tduated from a zero well below the leyel of the mercury in the cistern , so that the * This first noticed by my former assistant , AfON .
MHISSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MULLER ON THE of the column of mercury may be determ terminals connected with the battery .
The following experiment in rarefied air will give an idea of the amount of instantaneous expansion which occurs when the terminals are connected with the poles of the battery .
Pressure .
M. Distance of the terminals , 6 inches , the top one a point , the lower a disc . . . . .
56 7.3,684 On making contact the arc passed and the column of mercury wasdepresscdPressureonconnexion 11,000 cells , current ; the resistance of the bell-jar was reproduced by substituting 600,000 ohms wire resistance .
The volume of the bell-jar is 3787 cub. centims. , the temperature at the time of the ELECTRIC DISCHARGEi WITH THE LORIDE OF SILVER BATTERy .
experiment C. , and if the gas had been allowed to expand , its volumevould have been cub. centims. , or increase of 1068 cub. centims. ; the gas was kept at a constant volume the pressure incl.eased in the ratio to 1 .
Supposing the to be due to an increase of temperature , it would follow that as the volume was kept constant the pressure would vary as the absolute rature , therefore , whence C. The temperature while the discharge was passing would be C. , consequently the rise of temperature .
The temperature of the ) -jar as determined by a thermometer enclosed in it with its bulb uppermost only rose C. per second , taking into account the rate of cooling .
It is evident , therefore , that the increase of pressure cannot be ascribed to the instantaneous heating of the -jar C. A photograph of the discharge obtained in 60 seconds , and copied in Plate 9 , fig. 8 , shows that the central spindle or arc-proper could not have been so much as half-an-inch , centims. , in diameter , and its length we know was 6 inches , centims. ; the cubical tent of a cylinder of these dimensions is cub. centims. If we assume that this volume increased 1068 cub. centinls .
, or to , then represents the number of times it increased , and accordin C. , and would therefore be the temperature of the arc .
Experiments were made to ascertain roughly the temperature of different parts of the arc , and for this purpose wires were suppol.ted by one end being twisted round a iCal glass rod , the other end being made to project into the arc at different heights , or else wires were strained through opposite holes \amp ; c. , drilled at different heights in the side of a glass tube inch diameter , which was placed inside the bell-jar , as shown in fig. 81 .
Platinum wires inch diameter were not fused in any part of the arc ; they were heated to a white heat in the luminous but not in the non-luminous part .
But platinum inch in diameter , supported by inch , in various parts of the arc were immediately fused ; the temperature of the arc was therefore as high as the fusion-point of platinunl , and possibly considerably higher ( Plate 9 , figs. 9 , 10 ) .
The whole of the heat evolved by a current of through a resistance of 600,000 ohms would raise grammes of air 1o C. per second ; and if communicated to the air in the bell-jar , weighing gramme , would have raised its temperature to C. in that time .
We know from direct experiment that such mous evolution of heat was not uncated to the air in the bell-jal , because its temperature only increased about C. per second ; and it would have to be assumed that the rest of the heat escaped almost instantaneously by radiation .
It is difficult C0IIzero C. , MEiSS S. W. Dh A AND H. W. MULLER ON sequently to realise the conjecture that the enormous dilatation which occurred instantaneously could have been caused by increase of temperature .
On the other hand the ascel'tained facts appear rather to point to the phenomenon being caused by the pro .
jection of the gas-molecules by electrification against the walls of the glass vessel , producing thereby effects of pressure , which , however , are distinct from the molecular motion induced by heat .
Recently ( July 5th , 1879 ) , Professor DEWAR called our attention to a similar phenomenon , which confirms this view .
He was working in the chemical laboratory of the Royal Institution on the Electric Arc , the source of electricity bein a SIEMENS ' dynamo-machine driven by a gas engine .
The carbon electrodes were , for the purposes of his experiments , enclosed in a metallic cylinder } ) at the bottom but closed at the top ; the bottom was kept air-tight by immersion mercury .
The total radiant force was being accurately measured by carrying a stream of water through the cylinder into a separate vessel at a known rate , and measuring its increase of temperature by very sensitive thermometers , which could be read to a hundredth of a degree centigrade ; their rapid pulsations were easily seen as the radiant force varied .
Suddenly , from time to time , there was an increase of current and a great expansion of the volume of the air in the cylinder took place , and , although there were apertures in this vessel , the mercury joint was forced by the sudden expansion , and yet no sudden rise of the thermometer was noticed when these expansions occurred .
The tmder various ci ) .
We now proceed to describe the appearance of the arc with terminals of ious forms at different distances and with various pressures .
It will be seen that the light emitted by different parts of the arc is not of the same intensity throughout , and that under most circumstances there is a tendency to break up into distinct entities , and ultimately to take a stratified appearance .
The appearance of the arc , between discs in hydrogen at the vaxious pressures used in determining the potential necessary to produce a discharge , is represented in Plate 8 , figs. 11-19 .
M. cells .
second. .
Fig. 11 , at pressure of 18,684 , with 600 , from a photograph taken in 50 , , , , , , , , , , * DE LA RIVE noticed that oscihations occurred in the mercury of a gau ge attached to an exhausted tube as soon as { he current passed .
In the second and third paragraphs of Note , in the Appendix , is the account of his experiments .
ELECTRIC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATT b As the pressure was diminished the widened out until at last the surface of the negative disc was covered with a luminous discharge .
From the it will be seen that the central spindle did not extend quite up to the negative , shown in fig. 19 , at atmospheric pressure ; that in fig. 18 the central bright part detached itself so as to form an entity ; in figs. 17 , 16 , and 15 distinct strata were formed ; then that , as is shown in figs. 14 and 15 , the central ight portion diminished , the dark discharge near the negative increasing ; while at the lower pressures , represented in figs. 12 and 11 , there existed no central spiodle , and that with the exception of the luminosity on the terminals the rest of the discharge was dark .
It should be mentioned that part of the details have , in some instances , been supplied from sketches made when the photographs were obtained , for there was sometimes a movement in the discharge which produced a confused picture .
No observations of the expansion of the gas were attempted .
The appearance of the discharge in carbonic acid is shown twice the original size in Plate 10 , figs. 20 , 21 , 22 , and 23 ; in all the last will be observed the peculiar bell-shape form which is of the arc in cal.bonic acid ( Part I. , page 96 , 3 of fig. 23 ) .
Fig. M. cells .
983,158 10 , from a drawing .
, \ldquo ; \ldquo ; fig. 20 is seen a central spindle surl'ounded by a bell-shape faintel ' discharge ; in fig. 21 the central spindle is composed of well-defined strata ; in fig. 22 there is a bright luminosity in contact with the positive disc , then a dark interval with an illumination of the negative surface , the whole sulToulided by the ) ] ; in fig. 23 the central bright portion and the bell-shape glow have , and MESSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MULLh'R ON THE the surfaces of the positive and negative discs alone are illuminated , the glow , especially ) the ative , having become much wider .
The following cases of the discharge between two points in air , illustrated by the outline sketches , fig. 82 , one-third of the full size , will explain what is meant by the arc breaking up into distinct entities ; the outlines represent merely the bright portions of the arc : these are always surroumded with a less bright portion of highly heated gas , as shown in Plate 8 , figs. 1 to inclusive .
DISTANCE of terminals , two brass points , 6 inches .
in air , 11,000 cells .
The in air were made with the points still 6 inches distant:\mdash ; Pressure 63 , 82,895 M. Two wires , inch diameter , had been previously fixed in the direction the arc would take , one at 15 .
the other at 80 .
from the positive terminal ; instantaneously fused served as new intermediate termina ] ; the heat appeared to be greatest at the wire most distant 80 The mean increase of temperature in the jar was at the rate of per second , and the cooling at the rate of , so that the real increase would have been supposing no cooling had occurred .
Pressure 8 , 10,526 , 11,000 cells , current W. On making connexion the mercury in the gauge depressed 2 , so that the , or rather the pressure , increased in the atio 1 to 1 .
The appearance of the arc is represented in Plate 8 , ; the pale portion surrounding the brighter part was quite invisible in subdued daylight .
By keeping the current on for about two minutes the in the bell-jar rose from C. to C. Pressure 67 , 88,158 , 11,000 cells , current not measurable with the galvanometer , depression on connecting , increase of volume ( pressure ) in the ratio of to 1 ; the arc is shown in Plate 8 , fig. 32 .
Even at a pressure of 100 m.m. , 139,474 , there was a glow on both the terminals .
Pressure 8 , 10,526 , 11,000 cells , current , depression on connecting , increased pressure as to 1 .
In this iment wires were placed across the arc ; surrounding that one 15 m.m. distant from the positive was a cylindrical brighter glow resembling the glow around a negative terminal ; the arc was crossed with close -like strata , as in Plate 9 , fig. 9 .
Pressure 6 , 11.,000 cells , current , depression ELECTRIC WITH THE CHLORJDE BATTERY .
increase of pressure to 1 .
The arc was also in this case crossed with close paper-like strata .
Pressure 7 , 11,000 cells , current ; appearance represented in Plate 9 , fig. 9 , from a photograph taken in 3 minutes .
Pressure 60 , 78,947 , current not measured ; represented in Plate 9 , fig. 10 , from a photograph taken in 1 minute .
The arc in air between a point positive and a disc 6 inches distant is shown in Plate 8 , fig. 31 ; pressure 56 , 73,684 , 11,000 cells , current W. The central spindle is curved and divided near the centre .
INCREASE of pressure on making connexion with the battery of 11,000 cells , and produciug a discharge between points 6 inches distant .
The arc between points at various distances pressures with a of cells .
Temp. C. PLATE 8 .
11,000 cells , distance 054 inch , pressure atmospheric , current ; the total resistance of and arc was found to be 461,500 ohms , that of the arc 27,550 , by substituting wire resistance ; whence the potential between the terminals was 657 cells .
The appearance of the arc is shown in fig. 20 ; it exhibits clearly the tendency to break up into luminous entities ; the photograph of which this is a copy is nearly full size and was obtained in 20 seconds .
All the other photogJaphs are on a reduced scale .
As the batteries were undergoing the annual overhauling , the number of cells , some being remoyed from time to time , was somewhat less in the following experiments , namely , 10,940 .
Pressure atmospheric 7486 , 985,000 , distance inch , current not observed , no depression of the mercury in the gauge was noticed ; indeed , it will be seen that at the higher pressures the depression is generally less than at the lower , up to a certain point .
The arc is shown in fig. 1 from a photograph obtained in 10 seconds .
Distance inch , pressure , 388,026 , current depression 16 , total pressure ; ratio of increased to normal pressure as to 1 .
The arc is represented in fig. 2 in 15 seconds .
It will be seen that the central spindle has become bifurcated about lnidway .
Distance inch , pressure , 251,711 , current depression 17 , total pressure m.m. ; ratio of increased pressure The arc is represented in from a ograph in 15 seconds .
The bifurcation is apparenlt in this also .
Distance inches , pressure , 187 , , current depression 19 , total pressure .
; ratio of increased pressure The arc is represented in fig. 4 , in which the central spindle is broken up into several luminosities .
Distance inches , pressure , 148,157 , current depression 19 , total ; ratio of increased pressure .
The arc is represented in fig. 5 from a photograph in 15 seconds ; in this the central spindle is split up into bright entities connected by less bright portions .
Distance inches , pressure , 130,789 , current depression 21 , total pressure m.m. ; ratio of increased pressure The arc is epresented in fig. 6 from a photograph in 15 seconds .
The luminous entities still seen , but are less marked .
Distance inches , pressure , 113,026 , current depression 22 , total pressure .
; ratio of increased pressure Fig. 7 from a photograph in 15 seconds .
The central spindle is divided into two luminosities , with a tendency to form a third near the negative .
Distance inches , pressure , 94,210 , current depression 22 , total pressure .
; of increased pressure Fig. 8 from a photograph in 15 seconds .
The central spindle nearly of the same character as fig. 7 .
Distance inches , pressure , 86,184 , current depression 22 , total pressure .
; ratio of increased pressure Fig. 9 from a photograph in 15 seconds .
The bright entities show a tendency to break up into less bright portions .
Distance inches , pressure , 84,737 , current depression 20 , total pressure .
; ratio of increased pressure Fig. 10 from a photograph in 15 seconds .
The arc resembles that seen in fig. 9 .
Distance inches , pressure 4 , 5263 , current , a single nearly globular luminosity about 1 inch in diameter near the positive .
The negative terminal completely urrounded with a brilliant purple glow .
Distance inches , pressure less than 4 , but could not be exactly observed , current the positive three distinct strata had formed .
The curve of the discharge between two ) oints in air , with a constant number of cells , the distance increasing as 1 , 2 . .
10 , and the pressures diminishing , is shown in fig. 83 .
CTRIC DISCHABGHi WITH TH1 ILVE R BATTERY .
Fig. It will be seen by the following table that while the distances increase as 1 , 2 . .
10 , the pressures have to decrease in a greater ratio , namely , as 1 , 2 .
10 multiplied by a factor greater than unity in order to permit a discharge to take place .
expansion which ariseH when place at various distances and pressures :\mdash ; arc } ) surfaces , 3 , and pressnres , cells .
PLATE 10 .
( All the representations are from ) Distance inch ( the current would not pass at inch ) , pressure 1,001,317 , no depression apparent on making exion with the battery , fig. 1 .
Distance inch , pressure , 358 , , current no depression , fig. 2 ; the central spindle is broken up into nebulosities .
Distance inch , pressure , 238,553 , current depression , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure , fig. 3 , one detached luminosity negative .
Distance inch , pressure , 197,111 , current depression ] .
, total pressure , ratio of increased pressure , fig. 4 ; the discharge no longer occurred ab the shortest distance , and moreover took a curved formation , and was of mequal brightness in the central portion .
Distance inch , pressure 140 , 184 , , current depression , total pressure , ratio of pressure fig-5 ; the discharge was curved , there was a small dark near the negative on which there was a glow .
Distance ) inch , pressure , 155 , depression , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure ; fig. 6 .
The discharge was pointed towards the negative .
Distance inch , pressure , 155,789 , current CTRl C 1 ) ISCHARGI } ILVLR ] ] depression 2 , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure ; fig. 7 , similar to the preceding .
Distance inch , pressure , 155 , rent 0 depression 3 , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure ; fig. 8 , the luminosity on the negative increasing .
Distance inch , pressure , 155,789 , current depression 3 , total pressure , ratio of sed , fig. 9 .
The central bright portion was divided into two luminosities , that nearest the negative being the less bright .
Distance inch , pressure , 155,789 , current depression 3 , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure , fig. 10 .
The central portion was divided into two luminosities .
Distance inch , pressure , 146,448 ( the current would not pass at ) , current , depression 4 , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure , fig. .
The central portion was more decidedly divided into two portions , and assuming an upper-lip like form .
Distance inches , pressure , current W. , depression 8 , total pressure atio of increased pressure , fig. 12 .
The discharge } formed near the peripheries of the terminals .
The ninosity o the negative had increased .
Distance inches , pressure , 63,947 , current depression 9 , total pressure , ratio of increased , fig. The central bright part reached at first nearly to the negative , then after a short interval retreated first to about 2 inches and then to 3 inches from it .
Distance inches , pressure , 35,395 , current , depression , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure 1372 , fig. 14 .
The central portion reached to the negative and did not divide into entities .
Distance inches , pressure , 18,026 , current , depression 3 , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure , fig. 15 .
The central portion reached at first to within 2 inches , and then retreated to 3 inches from the negative .
Distance inches , pressure , 9342 , current W. The jarpotential was found to be 2069 cells .
The discharge had increased in width inches diameter , and was 3 inches long .
A purple glow on the negative , fiig .
17 .
Distance inches , pressure , current not taken , depression not appreciable .
There was a barely visible discharge between the ter1ninals , the positive was illuminated all over the surface opposed to the negative , which terminal completely covered on the top and under surface with a purple glow about a quarter of an inch deep , fig. 16 .
Distance inches , pressure ) , current the j potential was 1448 cells , its resistance ) ohms .
2400 rod cells ssed , giving a current of , and produced thin strata near the positive , the negative being completely covered with a purple glow , fig. 18 .
Distance inches , pressure , 1316 , 1200 cells , the zinc rods of which had been recently scraped to remove the oxychloride of zinc , gave a current of , and produced a discharge one and a half inches wide , nearly reaching the negative , which was covered with a purple light , surrounding the top and bottom surfaces to a depth of three.eighths of an inch .
Thoe in hydrogen betwee , two surfaces , 3 inches , and inch diameter , various and pressures , chiefly with 10,960 cells .
Tennp .
C. Distance inch ( the current would not pass at inch ) , pressure 1,003,685 , current , no depression apparent on making connexion with the battery .
The central spindle did not quite reach the negative terminal .
fig. 84 ; and lines visible with the spectroscope .
Distance inch , pressure 339 , 446,053 , current depression , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure The central spindle did not quite reach the negative terminal .
The arc appeared to be crossed by very close lines ; at the positive , winged appendages were formed , fig , 84 .
Distance inch , pressure 256 , 336,842 , culTent depression , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure The arc at first formed in the centre as on the left of , fig. 84 , then moved towards the periphery , as on the right of the same figure .
Winged appendages were formed as represented .
Distance inch , pressure 255 , S35,526 , current ELECTRIC WITH THE CHLORIDL OF SILVER BA IERY .
depression m.m. , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure The appearance as shown in , fig. 84 , the arc first formed in the centre , then ran all over the surfaces of the terminals , lastly becoming steady , as seen in edge view on the left , and side view on the right .
Distance inch , pressure m.m. , 264 , , current depression not observed .
arc at first formed in the centre , as seen in , fig. 84 , and then ran all over the surface , as in D. Fig. 84 .
Distance inches , pressure , 215,921 , current W. The discharge as in ; on the positive there formed a number of beads of light .
Distance inches , pressure , S1,31 , current W. The discharge in form like a fig ; a number of beads of light forming on the positive , and the arc ending in a rounded point ( the stem of the fig ) on the negative reduced to one-third .
Distance inches , pressure , S026 , 2400 cells , current W. Beads still formed on the positive , light became so faint an inch or two from the positive as to be barely visible , , fig. 84 , reduced to one-third .
The arc )two points .
Temp. C. , 10,940 Distance inch , pressure 745 , 980,263 , current , the appearance is represented in Plate s , figs. 21 and 22 , the first copied from a photograph obtained in 5 seconds , the second in 15 seconds .
central spindle breaks into a brush-like form towards the negative , there is then a dark interval between it and the glow on the negative .
Distance inch , pressure 745 , 980,263 , the discharge passed intermittently , so that the current could not be read off on the galvanometer .
The appearance is represented full size in Plate , fig. 26 , from a drawing .
Distance inch , pressure , 507,368 , current depression 14 , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure Plate 8 , fig. 23 , from a photograph in 13 seconds .
The distance between the brush-like termination of the central spindle and the glow on the negative has relatively increased .
Figs. 27 and 28 are other representations copied drawings .
Distance inches , pressure , 418,158 , current depression 13 , total pressure , ratio of increased pressure Plate 8 , fig. 24 , from a photograph in 15 seconds .
The central spindle relatively still shorter .
At times only the terminals were illuminated , but sometimes strata formed on the positive terminal .
Fig. 29 is another representation copied from a drawing .
Distance , pressure , 224,342 , 6300 cells , current not measured , the appearance is represented in Plate 8 , fig. 25 ; the central spindle has decreased relatively still more .
Distance ches , Qsure 8 , 112,895 , 10,940 cells , current , only a glow on both terminals , the intermediate discharge being dark .
Distance inches , pressure 10 m.m. , 13 , 158 , 10,940 cells , current CTRIC DISCHARGE WITH CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
depression 14 , total pressure 24 , ratio of increased presqure , only a glow on terminals , the rest of the discharge dark .
Distance inches , pressure , 4342 , 2400 cells , current strata at positiye extending half way towards the negatiye , then there is an interyening dark discharge , and the negative point and the whole of its holder is surrounded with a bright violet halo .
Distance inches , pressure 3 , 3947 , 1200 cells , the bottom point positiye current , a splendid stratification though somewhat unsteady ; it is represented in Plate s , fig. 35 , partly copied from a photograph , partly from drawings .
It was thought at first that well-defined strata would not be formed in a jar of such large diameter , but this expel.iment shows that this conjecture was unfounded .
The negative glow completely fills the neck of thejar .
Distance inches , pressure , 3158 , 1200 cells , current very steady stratification when the bottom point was positive ; this curious tion tely overlapped the whole surface of the bottom point and the brass holder , as shown in Plate 10 , fig. 26 , the glow around the tive completely filling the upper portion of the jar .
Air leaked into the receiver it was removed the plate and a tube , as shown fig. 79 , p. 84 , order to ascertain whether the contraction of space surrounding the discharge would have aIly effect on the production of .
It will be remembered that a number of holes had been drilled in opposite sides of the , which is 8 inches long and inch in diameter .
These holes were drilled with the object of straining very firle inum wires across at different heights for ascertaining the temperature of the arc at these positions , but in the experiments about to be described there were no wires .
The bell jar was refilled with hydrogen and exhausted ; distance of points inches , pressure , 2700 cells , current ; notwithstanding this large current no depression of the mercury in the gauge occurred on making connexion .
The discharge is mainly cylindrical , with a spherical tex.mination half all inch the negative , and completely fills the tube ; there is a small dark space , and the negative is completely surrounded with a violet halo .
Pressure 2 , 2632 , 2400 cells ; when the top point positive there was a production of ordinary strata , as is shown in Plate s , fig. 35 .
But when the bottom was positive , a very remarkable phenomenon was observed , namely , the protrusion of strata through the small holes , inch in diameter , in the walls of the inner tube , this being accompanied by an overpouring of tive discharge above the top of it , Plate 8 , fig. 34 .
It seemed , if the positive discharge sought a complete tion with negative electricity beyond the confines of the tube , the of which was too small to permit of complete relief .
The close confinement of the at the bottom end of the tube which rests on the glass plate of the pump , may accoullt for the non-oozing out of strata through the holes when the to } ) lvas MESSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MULLER ON THE because in the latter case the negative could not overflow the end of the tube and seek positive neutralization .
Some gas let in , pressure 4 , 5263 , 2400 cells , current , a welldefined stratification occurred when the bottom point was positive , but no oozing out through the holes in the tube , Plate 10 , fig. 25 .
Fig. 85 .
In order to whether there was any erence in the increased pressure on the positive or negative side of the discharge on connecting the terl with the battery , we had a divided bell-jar constructed as shown in fig. 85 , both ends of the two halves being accurately ground , and a glass disc for dividing the chamber into parts was provided ; in this there is a hole half an inch in diameter surrounded by a raised rim , in order that plates of mica with holes of different diameters might be cemented with Canada balsam centrally to the diaphragm .
The capacity of the ELECTRIC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
upper half was found to be 1530 cub. centims. , that of the lower half 1755 , total 3285 , or somewhat less than the jar , fig. 79 ( 3787 ) .
Instead of putting separate gauges in connexion with the two chambers , as was originally conte1llplated , the lower chamber only was connected to the gauge , as in fig. 81 , p. 86 , and the lower terminal was made \mdash ; alternately .
Air .
Points inches .
In a preliminary trial with the central hole inch diameter , and a pressure which was not recorded , but at which 8840 cells just passed , the depression of the gauge when the lower terminal was negative or positive , was\mdash ; LOWER terminal .
Mean Central hole inch diameter , temperature C. , pressure mm. , 80,132 11,000 cells , current , the jar-potential was found to be 3550 cells , LOWER terminal .
Mean . . . . . .
Ratio of increased to normal pressure The appearance of the discharge is shown in Plate 10 , fig. 24 , which is copied from a drawing .
Pressure , 85 , , temperature C. , 11,000 cells , current jar-potential 8188 cells , depression\mdash ; LOWER terminal .
Mean . . . . .
Ratio of increased pressure .
MESSRS .
W. ) LA RUE AND H. W. MULLER ON THE Central hole inch , pressure , 109,869 , 11,000 cells , current , depression\mdash ; LOWER terminal .
Ratio of increased pressure .
Central hole , pressure 78 , 102,632 , 11,000 cells , current jar-potentia13477 cells , depression \mdash ; terminal .
Mean . . .
Ratio of increased pressure .
Central hole inch , pressure , 90,132 , 11,000 cells , current when the lower was positive , when it was negative ; in order to avoid any errors reyersing with the key , the contacts of which might possibly be more perfect in one or other direction , the connecting wires were reversed and cormexion made by moving the key always in one direction ; the jar-potential was 3188 cells , depression\mdash ; LOWER terminal .
Mean . . . . .
Ratio of increased pressure .
The hole in the centre of the diaphragm was covered with a disc of thin brass cemented on the glass .
The top point distant inches from the brass disc , the bottom point distant from the bottom of the disc inches , this makes a total distance veen the points of inches .
The top and bottom cocks were connected together by tubing .
Temperature C. , pressure m.m. , 91,053 11,000 cells , current , with 40,000 ohms additional resistance , making a total of ohms , ; the connexion between the top and bottom chambers was left open , depression\mdash ; LOWER terminal .
m.m. Ratio of increased pressure ELECTRIC DISCHARGE .WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
The communication between the top and bottom chambers was now closed , pressure m.m. , 79,210 , 11,000 cells , current bottom negative , bottom positive , jar-potential , both chambers , 4538 cells , depression\mdash ; LOWER terminal .
Mean . . . . .
10 Ratio of increased pressure The discharge took place when the top was negative in a curved arch from the upper rim of the disc to the point , and from the lower point it was axial to the centre of the underside of the disc ; the underside of the disc formed a new negative , while its upper side formed a new positive terminal , Plate 8 , fig. 30 .
of increased to normal pressure .
LOWER chamber .
1.34 It would appear therefore that the dilatation of the gas is the same both in the positive and negative chambers .
In order to prosecute our experiments in a vessel of still greater capacity , we had constlucted a larger jar with a neck at each end , or , more properly speaking perhaps , a tube as represented in fig. 86 , supported horizontally on ebonite crutches .
It is .37 inches , 94 centims. , long and inches , 148 centims. , in diameter , and its cubical content 14,435 cubic centims. , or times that of the bell- .
jar , fig. 79 , p. 84 .
The ends are ground and are closed by caps with necks , , also ground flat ; the holes in the necks are likewise ground so as to receive two tubes ; in these tubes are sealed wires on which terminals of any form may be screwed ; this has to be done after they have been inserted through the caps and before the caps have been placed in position ; by this arrangement terminals nearly as large as the neck of the may be used .
The tubes which hold the are fUrnished with glass cocks .
The joints are made air-tight by means of grease , and the caps are kept in their places MESSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MULLER ON THE by ebonite outer held by bolts which screw into half-rings at the back of the neck-shaped openings of the tube .
This tube is numbered 199 ; the distance between the terminals , a ring , and a straight wire is inches , centims. Another tube , No. 200 , 3,4 inches , centims. , long and inch , centims. , diameter , 30 inches , ELECTRIC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
centims. , between the terminals , a ring , and a straight wire , is also connected to the pumps in order to permit of the study of the effect of different on the phenomena of the discharge when both tubes are at the same pressure .
The experiments with Tube 199 will necessarily occupy a considerable period , partly on account of the long time it takes to exhaust it after each set , partly on account of the variety of experiments it is intended to make with it .
We now propose to describe only a few of the first results we have hitherto obtained .
Tube 199 , Air .
Pressure 3 , 3947 , 6800 cells .
Two luminosities were formed , as shown in Plate 9 , fig. 5 , the ring negative being surrounded with a nebulosity which completely filled the end of the tube .
The tube glowed brilliantly with a blue fluorescent light , which proved to have great actinic power .
The figure is copied from a dry-plate photograph obtained in 5 seconds ; it lecords a very curious phenomenon , namely , that the outer boundary of the luminosity appears } than the tube .
It is to be remarked that while the discharge was reddish ( nitrogen ) , the fluorescence of the tube was blue ; the effect appears to be due to the absorption of a portion of the fluorescent light emanating from the back of the in passing through the red luminosity .
The effect was quite unexpected , and it was thought at that it might have arisen from some peculiarity in the development of the dry plate ; it was not therefore until the result had been confirmed by other photographs that we ventured on the explanation given .
Tube 199 , Hydrogen .
Pressure 40 , 56,632 , 11,000 cells , current W. A mere speck of light both on the positive and negative terminals ; in tube No. 200 there was not the slightest glow when the battery was connected with it .
The whole of tube 199 glowed with a blue fluorescent light , notwithstanding that there was only a mere speck of illumination on the terminals , and no appearance of light between them .
Pressure 28 , 86,842 , 11,000 cells , current W. A spear-head shaped luminosity about half an inch long on the positive straight terminal , mere speck of light on the negative ring .
No discharge occurred in tube 200 at the same pressure .
Pressure 26 , S4,211 , 11,000 cells , current W. A fan-shape luminosity about one inch long at the positive , a mere speck of light about one-eighth of an inch in length on the negative ring .
The tube glowed with a blue fluorescent light throughout its length .
6300 cells would nob pass .
Pressure 22 , 28,948 , 11,000 ] , current W. The glow on negative extended to three-eighths of an inch , a spear-head luminosity on the positive wire , to which it was attached by a very bright wire-like stem not greater in diameter than the terminal , , fig. 87 .
IsIESSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MULLER ON THE Pressure 15 m.m. , 19,737 , 11,000 cells , current W. A spindle-shaped luminosity at the positive about inch long , and the negative rin completely surrounded with a glow which had increased considerably since A. After a short time the spindle on the positive lengthened out and nearly reached the negative , huggmg the underside of the tube , as in , fig. 87 .
It was not sensitive to the approach of the finger , although close to the glass ; 6300 cells produced the same phenomena .
Fig. 87 , Pressure m.m. , 17,105 , 11,000 , current W. At the positive , spear with a staff not greatly exceeding the diameter of the wire , the spear-head reaching to the middle of the tube .
The glow on negative less brilliant than the preceding phase in consequence of a less current passing .
Pressure 9 m.m. , 11,842 , 6,300 cells , current W. A well-formed arrow-like luminosity at the positive , the negative ring three parts illuminated .
After a while the luminosity shot forward towards the negative and lost its arrow shape , and then retreated to the positive , assuming the form of a long pear .
Pressure 8 , 10,526 , 6800 cells , current .
A long discharge reaching to the middle of the tube , in the centre of which was a very bright wire-like luminosity like that in , fig. 87 , which in the latter case was attached to the positive .
ELECTRIC DTSCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
Pressure 5 , 6579 , 6300 cells , current W. Pressure , 5921 , 6300 cells , current W. Pressure 4 , 5263 , 6300 cels , culrent W. The discharge in the latter case was partially stratified .
Pressure 3 , 3947 , 6300 cells , current W. Similar phenomena to those at a pressure of 4 , except that the negative glow was more extended and terminated in a fringe-like contour composed of filaments of light .
Pressure 3 , 3947 , 6300 cells , current W. Two stratified lumino- sities as shown in Plate 9 , fig. 6 , copied from a dry-plate photograph obtained in 25 seconds , and a drawing made at the time ; the negative was completely and very bril- liantly illuminated .
After a short time ] two luminosities coalesced to form one at the positive terminal , and between it and the negative there was a long dark The outer boundary of the discharge from the positive is less bright than the fluorescent glow of the tube , as was the case with a discharge in air .
Plate 10 , shows the phenomena of the discharge in tube 200 at the same pressure , with a current of ; this exemplifies well the influence of the diameter of the tube on the phenomena of stratification .
In fact , in tube 199 we have not yet succeeded in obtaining a steady stratification , while in tubes of a less diameter perfectly steady strata always obtained , although their form and number depend partly on the dimensions of the tube , Part II .
, fig. , p. 209 .
Pressure 2 , 2632 , 6300 cells , current W. Strata for three-fourths of the length of the tube , commencing at the positive in a point and enlarging about half the diameter of the tube as it approached the negative .
Pressure , 1974 , 6300 cells , current W. The strata completely filling the tube towards the negative in form like , fig. 87 .
The negative still more brilliantly illuminated , the glow terminating as a fringe .
The resistance of the tube was found to be 63,000 ohms .
Pressure , 4800 cells , current W. The dischal.ge was as in Plate 9 , fig. 7 , copied from a dry-plate photograph obtained in 25 seconds .
The glow around the negative completely filled the tube as if the discharge experienced difficulty in emanating from that terminal , and that the gas was driyen with force against the inner wall of the tube .
We have already alluded in Part II .
to the projection of matter from the negative terminal in a direction normal to its surface , and not necessarily towards the positive ; has recorded similar phenomena , and CROOKES ' remarkable researches have shown in the most convincing nner that this occurs , and that the matter projected may be brought to a focus by curved surfaces .
The great extent of the dark discharge which sometimes obtains is very remarkable andrequires special study .
We have stated in Part IT .
, p. \amp ; c. , that the strata sometimes thread themselves completely on the negative minal , and that after time they *Part II .
, Appendix , Note C. MESSRS .
W. DE LA H. W. MULLER ON THE retreat towards the positive .
In the course of our experiments we have frequently observed the stratification extending quite up to the negative , and after a certain time only filling about half of the tube , as , for example , in tube 128 , containing hydrogen , the discharge in which , with 2400 cells , the current bein , is shown in Plate 9 , fig. 4 , copied from a photograph obtained in 5 seconds .
It will have been noticed that the extent of illumination of the negative in tube 199 gradually increased as the exhaustion and the current became greater ; it would seem that the negative discharge requires a greater extent of outlet than the positive , especially as the current increases ; this is well exemplified by tube 51 containing hydrogen ; it is 7 inches long and 2 inches in diameter ; it contains a small ring terminal half an inch in diameter , the other being a spiral supported ) three glass rods , and formed of a wire 19 inches long , and making four turns .
When connected with a battery of 1200 cells , the spiral being negative , it became illuminated to a small extent near the positive , then the luminosity extended backwards as the current was increased , but not in the same ratio .
The resistarlce of the tube was found by substitution to be 10,500 ohms .
Plate 10 , fig. 27 , represents the appearance with 500,000 ohms resistance in circuit ; it is copied from a photograph obtained in 10 seconds ; fig. 28 , the appearance without resistance , from a photograph in 5 seconds .
The experiments described in Part III .
lead to the following conclusions:\mdash ; 1 .
For all there is pressure which offers the resistance to the passage of an electric discharge .
After the been reached , the resistance to discharge rapidly as the pressure of the rnedium decreases .
With hydrogen the minimum is ; at , it is as great as at 35 , 46,000 M. 2 .
neither condensation nor dilatation of a gaseous medivm in contiguity charged terminals .
ELECTRIC WITH CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
3 .
When the discharqe takes place there is a sndden of the medium in addition to stinct from that caused by heat .
This ceases instantaneously when the discharge ceases .
4 .
The potential to between parcdtd flat at a constant and pressures , or at constant pressfire and various be by hyperbolic cnrves .
The resistance to the discharge between rallel flcxt being the number of molecules tervening between them .
5 .
This law does not hold with regard to points .
I Part I. it has ?
that the to produce a at the xospheric pressure various is as the square root of the distances ; while ) constant potential istanr , , the pressure to be inished in a ratio than that of the incre of disia , nce in order to discharge to take place .
6 .
The electric arc and the stratified in tubes tionsL of the phenomenon .
We propose later on to follow up this communication with an account of some researches on the conditions of the dark discharge and of special phenomena of the negative discharge .
We have also made prepalations for constructing the terminals of the tubes of very small platinum tube , in order to permit of gas being admitted through them during the discharge .
We have again pleasure in thanking Professor STOKES for his much-valued advice during the course of our investigations .
To our assistant , Mr. FRAM , we are indebted for his able co-operation , and we have to thank Mr. H. ) for his aid and skill in taking photographs .
SSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MULLER ON THE APPENDIX .
NOTE , RELATING TO PAGE 69 .
In order to avoid the injurious running down of the life of the battery in making observations of the tube-potential , two new methods of observation were adopted subsequently to that described in pp. C5-68 ; one by means of the galvanometer , the other by means of the electrometer .
The first method consists in observing , in the first place , the deflection , , of a THOMSON galvanometer through an adjustable resistance , so high in relation to the internal of the battery that the latter might be neglected , then in observing the deflection , , when the tube is connected with the terminals ; the second deflection , multiplied by the number of cells employed , , and divided by tlJe first deflection , , gives the tube-potential V , The resistance made use of is a line drawn with a hard ( H ) blacklead pencil along a -shaped groove in a quadrangular prism of ebonite , one inch square in-section , as shown in ( fig. 88 ) , half size .
In the Fig. 88 .
prism , on the under side , a recess is maCle not quite reaching the ends of the prism , and at the bottom of this recess the V groove is formed .
A dovetail groove is also made , in which an ebonite cover shdes , to pletely cover the recess so as to keep out dust .
Into the cover two ebonite feet are screwed .
Four rods , pierced partly through with holes to receive the terminals , are inserted through the upper surface so as to reach the apex of the , and tloe end of each rod , at the level of the apex , a small flat is formed which is rubbed over with blacklead to ensure contact with the pencil line .
The length of the pencil line from A to is 91 inches , to inches , and to inches .
The resistance of A to was found to be 149,670 megohms .
\ldquo ; \ldquo ; , ELECTRIC DISCHARGE WITH THE CHLORIDE OF SILVER BATTERY .
The deflection produced by different potentials , per 100 cells , was as follows:\mdash ; mber o cells The deflection is read forth battery without the tube and again when the tube is connected .
If the tubepotential approaches that of the whole number of cells it may once be calculated , but if the tnbepotential is much less than that of the battery a shorter length of the line-resistance is taken and a new reading obtained with the tube connected ; this new defiection is reproduced approximately by lessening the number of cells and reading the deflection again without the tube ; the tube-potential is then calculated from the new data .
The pencil-line-resistance has been found to change from time to , but this is not of the least moment , becauso , in every observation , the tube-potential is balanced , it were , at time it is made .
In fig. 88 , is tube ; , the battery ; , the line-resistance ; A , sections of this Iiesistance ; G , the galvanometer ; , a key for on the ) when required .
The movable wire is shown to be inserted into the hole so as to include the whole resistance A but it may be inserted into either or B. NOTE , RELATING TO PAGE 69 .
The second method of obtaiuing the tube-potential , suggested to us ) Professor , is lllodification of that described ( Part II .
, p. 165 ) ; the change consisting in detaching the induction apparatus from the electrometer , as shown in fig. 89 ; for it was found in former Rrral that the influence of the induction-plate on the pair of quadrants opposed to that over which it placed detrimental , especially when much raised .
Moreover , it was found to be advantageous to the needle and not one of the quadrants with the induced charge ; and , on the other hand , to connect each pair of quadrants respectively with the \mdash ; terminal of two chloride of silver batteries , each of 20 or Jnore cells .
The other terminal of each battery being connected to the earth ; each pair of quadrants becomes constantly charged to the same potential , one with positive the other with negative electricity , and their influence on the needle is perfectly symmetrical .
The figure shows clearly the arrangement .
The lower plate is in connexion with the needle through the insulated wire I ; the terminal of one battery , and the terminal of the other are connected to their respective quadrants .
When an observation has to be made , one terminal of the battery of high potential is brought into connexion with , which is in metallic communication with the upper or inducing plate of the induction apparatus , the other terminal of the battery being to earth ; the swing of the needle is observed and the apparatus is afterwards discharged by connecting the needle and the inducing plate to earth , the tube is then attached to the terminals and the swing observed when is gain touched .
The ratio of the latter to the former gives the ratio of the tube-potential to the number of cells used .
If the MESSRS .
W. DE LA RUE AND H. W. MiTLLER ON THE two deflections are very different , it is advantageous to balance the swing with the tube approximately by a less number of cells , and to calculate the tube-potential with the fresh data .
In order to prevent worrying oscillations of the needle a slight but important change is made in the attachment of the damper to the needle .
Soldered idly to the needle is -shaped wire , to the horizontal ends of which is hung a -shaped wire to form a hinge ; to the vertical projeotion of the are attached three cross-wires which dip into the acid , forming in this way a damper well as a conductor .
As the damper is rigidly connected to the needle in the plane of the swing it moves steadily , and its extreme swing may be taken for the reading .
The inducing and induced plate are both 4 inches in and may be made to touch or be separated a distance of 7 inches .
Fig. The following readings were obtained with the plates 4 inches apart ; the quadrants charged to a potential of 20 ] ELECTRIC WITH THhl CHLORIDE OF }LVER J By increasing the number of cells in connexion with the quadrants , say to 100 , the defiection is considerably augmented ; it may also be increased to any requisite extent by bringing the plates of the induction apparatus closer together .
NOTE , RELATING TO PAGE 88 .
DE LA RIVE , Geneve , Mem. Soc. Phys. XVII .
, 1863 , pp. 73-74.\mdash ; Le phenomene dans les fluides elastiques rarefies consisterait dams des contractions et dilatations alternatives du milieu gaseux , produites par la serie des decharges toujours plus ou moins discontinues dont le jet electrique est form .
En effet , que ce soit par l'appareil KORFF ou bien par un machine electriqne ordinaire , ou un machine hydro-electrique , et meme par nne pile voltaique a haute tension , qu'on produise les stratifications , on n'a jamais un decharge continue , mais bien un serie de decharges qui peuvent se succeder assez rapidement pour que la discontinuite no soit pas accusee meme par un galvanometre ; mais cette discontinuite n'existe pas moins , comme M. GASSIOT l'a montre en ope'rant avec un pile de GROVE a haute tension qui , avec les memes electrodes et dams le meme milieu , peut donner issance , d'abord a des stratifications , puis plus tard a un arc voltaique , quand le courant est devenu continu .
' ' Au rest l'action mecanique de la serie des decharges sir le fluide elastique rarefie peut etrc constabee directement par les oscillations tres prononcees de la colonne de mercure du manometre mis en communication avec la fluide elastique qui accompagnent la propagation de l'electricite dans ce fluide .
Ces oscillations s'elevent deux ou trois dixiemes de millimetre dans l'hydrogene sous la pression de 16 millimetres ; else commencent a etre sensibles des que le jet pass , c'est-a-dire a 36 millimetres de pression ; else atteignent leur maximum , qui est de trois dixiemes de millimetre , entre 20 et 12 milli- metres de pression ; else diminuent rapidement a partir de 12 jusqu'a tres de pression , sous laquelle else n'ont pas lieu .
Avecl'azote et avec l'air atmospherique , et en se servant du memc tube de 16 centimetres de longueur ot de 5 de diametre , les oscillations commencent a se montrer en meme temps le jet pass , sous la pression de 20 millimetres environ ; else atteignent leur maximum de 4 a 5 dixiomes de millimetre entre 12 et 8 millimetres de pression ; puis else vont en diminuant ou 3 millimetres pression , sous laquelle else no sont plus sensible .
' ' Avec le tube d'un metre de longueur , et avec celui de 50 ccntimetres , je n'ai pu obscrvcr aucune appearance d'oscillation accompagnant la transmission dn jet electrique , quel quc fut lc gaz enfcrm dans ces tubes et quelle que fut la pression a laquelle il fut soumis .
Par contre , j'ai obtenu des prononcees , de 1 a 2 dixiemes de millimetre daus un bocal de 20 centimetres de hautcur ( inches ) , [ ESSRS .
W. DE LA AND H. W. MIJLLLR ON THE sir 16 ( inches ) de diametre rempli d'hydrogene rarefie , et dans jet electrique passait d'une boule centrale un anneau concentrique a cette boule , de 12 centimetres ( inches ) de diametre .
Ce dernier lesultat montre que l'absence d'oscillation dans les longs tubes tient moins au volume de la couch gazeuse , qui est plus faible qu'elle me l'est dams le bocal de la derniere experience , qu'a l'influence des parois des tubes qui genent le mouvement du .
C'est aussi un preuve que les oscillations proviennent bien d'une action mecanique , et non d'une elevation de temperature .
Quant a l'intensite des oscillntions , eJles dependent evidemment de resistance plus ou moins grande que le milieu gazeux oppose a la transmission du jet electrique , puisque les oscilations sont plus considerables avec l'azote qu'avec l'hydrogene , et qu'elles diminuent en meme temps que la pression a partir d'une certain pression , qui est celle ou la de'charge peut s'operer d'une maniere complete et a laquelle l'intensibe des oscillations atteint son maximum .
" " La stratification de la lumiere electrique serait donc nn phenomene analogue a la production des ondes sonores , c'est-a-dire un phenomene provenant d'une succession d'impulsions isochrones excercees sir la colonne gazeuse rarefiee , par la serie des decharges electriques se succedant tres rapidement les unes aux autres .
Nous trouvons un nouvelle preuve en faveur d'envisager le phenomene dans la perturbation qu'apporte aux stratifications un deplacement de la matiere gazeuse , et par consequent dans la dist ) ositiondu fluide elastique qui permet leur apparition .
Il suffit , pour produire cette turbatior d'introduire dams le tube ou a un fluide elastique rarefie , pendant que l'electricite s'y propage un quantity additionelle du meme gaz qui trouve dej renferme de maniere a augmenter la pression ou millimetre ou plus .
Voici ce qui se pass avec l'hydrogene , les effets sont les memes avec les tubes de 15 , de 50 , et 100 contimetres de longueul LECTRIC D IVITH OF BATTERY .
INDEX TO PART III .
PAGE .
ir\mdash ; Phenomena of arc in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9,1-94 Potential necessary to produce discharge between discs in . . . . . . . . . .
77 Arc , Electric\mdash ; Phenomena of , in air between points , Plate 8 , figs. 1-10 . . . . . . . .
89 in air between spherical surfaces , Plate 10 , . . . .
94-96 in carbonic acid , Plate 10 , . . . . . . . .
89 in hydrogen , Plate 8 , figs. 11-19 . . . . . . . . . .
88 between spherical surfaces , fig. 84 , , , . . . . . . . . . . . .
97 between points , Plate 8 , figs. 21-29 ; 34-35 ; Plate \ldquo ; 10 , . . . . . . . . . .
99-100 Temperature of , supposing the sudden dilatation of a gas when a discharge occurs to be solely due to development of heat . . . . . . . . . . . .
84-87 Carbonic Phenomena of arc in , , figs. 20-23 . . . . . . . . . . . .
89 Potential necessary to produce a discharge in . . . . . . . . . .
78 ondensation , none occurs in a gaseous medium in contiguity with charged terminals , fig. 74 . .
) Curves representing the potential necessary to produce a discharge in gases . . . .
DE LA RIVE on the nature of the stratified discharge . . . . . . . . . . . .
113 Dilatation of gases when discharge takes place is mainly due to a projection of molecules and not to increase of temperature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87-88 of gases ( expansion ) the same at both terminals , Plate 10 , fig. 24 . . . . . .
101 none previous to the discharge in contiguity with charged terminals , 75-76 , , sudden , of a gaseous medium when a discharge takes place , fig. 81 ; Plate 9 , figs. 8-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
85-86 ; 91 ; 94 ; 96 ; 98-99 Discharge between points in air with a constant potential , and different distances and pressures 91-93 dark , extent of , Plate 9 , fig. 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
108 Electrometer , the quadrants charged to the same potential but of opposite signs ; the needle with the potential to be measured ( MASCART'S arrangement ) . . . . . . . . . . . .
111 Electro-motive force , table of , in volts , necessary for various striking distances in centimetrcs in air between discs at atmospheric pressure . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
83 pansion .
See Dilatation .
Hydrogen , potential necessary to produce a discharge in . . . . . . . . . . . .
78 phenomena of arc in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
88 ; 96 ; 98-99 Hyperbolic curve represents the experimental results of the potential necessary to produce a discharge between discs at a constant distance and various pressures in air , hydrogen , and carbonic acid . . . . . . . . . . . .
77 ; 81 also holds good for a constant pressure and various distances , fig. 78 . . . .
82 Tllumination of negative terminals , extent of , dependent on amount of current , Plate 10 , 27-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10/ -108 MASCART , Professor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
75 ; 111 Pencil , blacklead-line resistance , use of in determining a tube-potential during a scharge . .
110 Potential , difference of , between terminals during a discharge in a vacuum tube ( tube-potential ) 93 . . . . . .
necessary to produce a discharge in air carbonic acid . . . . . .
hydrogen PAGE .
Resistance , blacklead-pencil-line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
110 STOKES , Professor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
79 ; 109 Stratification , nature of , DE LA RIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
113-114 Tube of large dimensions , Plate 9 , figs. 5 , 6 , 7 ; fig. 87 ; . . . . . . . . . .
104 ; 106 , , peculiar discharge in , Plate 9 , fig. .3 . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . .
75 Tube-potential .
Potential .
calculation from deflections of a galvanometer . . . . . . . . . .
65 decreases with decrease of pressure at first , then increases . . . . . .
69 for hydrogen , least at a pressure of . . . . . . . .
69 measurement of , by means of the electrometer . . . . . . . . . .
111 an enormous pencil-line resistance . . . . . .
110 PLATES 8 , 9 , 10 , REFERENCES TO Plate 8 , figs. 1-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
91 figs. 11-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
88 fig. 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
91 figs. 21-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
98 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
103 fig. 31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
91 figs. 32-33 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
90 figs. 34-35 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
99 Plate 9 , , 2 , 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
73 , 75 fig. 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
108 figs. 5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
104-106 figs. 8-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 ; 90-91 Plate 10 , figs. 1-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
94-96 fig. 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
107 figs. 20-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
89 fig. 24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
101 fig. 25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
100 fig. 26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
99 figs. 27-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
108 - .
' :$

