Some Observations on Corrosive Sublimate .
By John Davy , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 6 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 357 .
] It has sometimes been stated that corrosive sublimate suffers decomposition by exposure to light ; but Dr. Davy found this not to be the case with the dry salt .
Its aqueous solution , however , and especially its solution in proof spirit ( the Liquor Hydr .
Oxymur .
of the Pharmacopceia ) , when exposed to sunshine , deposits a little calomel , and forms muriatic acid .
The alcoholical and ethereal solutions suffer no such change ; nor do the aqueous solutions , to which small quantities of muriatic acid and of muriate of ammonia have been added .
The author found corrosive sublimate soluble in water at 570 , in the proportion of 5'4 per cent. Alcohol at 60 ?
dissolved half its weight , and ether about one third its weight .
Heated with oil of turpentine , corrosive sublimate gives rise to the formation of muriatic acid and calomel , carbon is deposited , and a little artificial camphor produced ; with other oils the changes are of a similar description .
Muriatic acid of sp. gr. 1 158 at 74 ?
, dissolves twice its weight of corrosive sublimate , the specific gravity of the resulting solution being 2-412 ; when the temperature of this solution is somewhat lowered , it concretes into a mass of acicular crystals .
Nitric acid at the temperature of 900 , does not dissolve corrosive sublimate , nor does sulphuric acid .
A mixture of 34 parts of corrosive sublimate , and 6-75 of muriate 171k of ammonia , liquefies when heated , being more fusible and less vatile than the ingredients separately , and concretes into a gray crystalline mass on cooling .
The author then describes the property of several solutions of corrosive sublimate and sal-ammoniac , showing that the solubility of the compound salt exceeds that of the most soluble ingredient ; and details some experiments illustrating the action of the muriates of baryta , magnesia , potash , and soda , upon corrosive sublimate .

