356 XII .
" On the Cutaneous Sensibility of the Hand and Foot in different parts of the Surface , as tested by the Continuous Galvanic Current .
' By HARRY LOBB , Esq. Communicated by JOHN SIMON , Esq. Received May 28 , 1861 .
Procure a 60-element Pulvermacher 's bath battery , excite it with ordinary vinegar , and hang it up free in the air by a piece of cord .
Attach conducting wires to the terminal hooks , and to the wire from the copper or positive pole connect a moistened sponge-conductor , which the round the neck , so that the sponge may rest upon the skin over the middle cervical vertebra .
To the wire , from the zinc or negative pole , attach a conductor of smooth metal .
Upon placing the metal conductor upon the skin of the arm or back of the hand the burning sensation is unbearable for a single moment .
Upon placing it upon any portion of the skin of the palm , or under surface of the fingers , no pain is experienced , nothing but the touch of the conductor .
There is , however , a line running down the side of each finger nearer the back than the palmar surface , where painful sensation commences .
This line is also to be traced round , between the thumb and first finger , along the back surface of the thumb and the limit between the skin of the palm and the wrist .
This line can be easily detected by the eye ; the smooth papillary skin of the palm being insensible , whereas the hairy , polygonally reticulated skin of the back of the hand and wrist is acutely sensible .
The skin on the back of the first phalanges is insensible , and also a part of the way down the second , varying in different persons .
If the conductor be placed in the centre of the palm of the hand and held there with gentle pressure for a minute ortwo , the idea conveyed is that of greatly increasing pressure , as if the instrument was being thrust through the palm , until the pain becomes unbearable ; but there is no sensation of burning , pricking , or stinging .
The same laws are discovered to hold good in respect to the foot .

