A paper was also read , entitled , " On the constitution of the Re ?
sins .
Part IV .
" By James F. W. Johnston , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. This paper contains the account of the continuation of the author 's previous researches into the constitution of the resins , both as they occur in nature , and as they appear when extracted from the natu ?
ral products by the agency of alcohol or ether .
The great difficulty in this inquiry is to determine when the resin to be analysed is obtained in its normal state ; and the author has endeavoured in each case to ascertain this point by repeated analyses of the resins pre ?
pared under different conditions .
He thus arrives at the conclusion , that the resin of scammony extracted from crude scammony by alco ?
hol , and heated to 260 ?
Fahr. , is represented by C40 H33 O20 , containing the largest amount of oxygen of any resin hitherto ana ?
lysed .
The resin of jalap , obtained by evaporating the alcoholic extract , and afterwards boiling it in water , is represented by C40 HSi 018 , and in the amount of oxygen it contains is only surpassed by the resin of scammony .
It is interesting to remark that these two resins in their effects on the animal economy are as nearly related as these formulae show them to be in chemical consti ?
tution .
The resin of labdanum , extracted by alcohol from the crude labdanum and evaporated , gave the formula C40 H33 08 ; but this extract , softened in the air and water , took up from it a bitter substance of a brown colour .
After boiling in water , the pure resin is represented by C40 H33 07 .
The Berengela resin , previously analysed by the author before he was aware of the conditions necessary to be attended to in order to obtain a resin in its normal state , is expressed by the formula C40 H3o 07 ; and the resin of Retin asphalt , also previously analysed by the author , by C40 H &lt; 27 06 .
The resin of ammonia , extracted by alcohol from the crude gum resin , is represented by C40 H^ , 0Q ; the resin of opoponax by C40 H25 0,4 ; and that of assafoetida by C40 Hc26 Oi0 .
A striking relation appears between the formula ?
for the resins of ammonia and assafoetida , the former being C40 H25 O , .
, the latter C40 Ht26 O10 , as if the latter were merely a hydrate of the former .
The author considers this relation , and concludes that it is only ap ?
parent , and that probably in neither of the resins does any of the hydrogen exist in combination with oxygen in the state of water .
This leads the author to inquire into the general action of a slightly elevated temperature on the resins , and he concludes that in all cases when a resin in its normal state is heated a few degrees above its melting point , it begins to suffer partial decomposition , accompanied by the solution of water , and always by more or less of a volatile , generally oily compound , sometimes containing less and sometimes more oxygen than the resin which has been subjected to heat .
In the case of some resins , especially such as are agreeably fragrant , and are expressed by the second of the author 's general formula ?
C40 H24 +x 07 , benzoic acid is one of the products of decomposition at a moderate temperature .
Thus the resin of dragon 's blood gives only a trace of benzoic acid , with water and a red volatile compound ; while the resin of benzoin gives much benzoic acid .
Some resins give off vola ?
the matters and diminish in weight long before they reach the fusing point ; as is the case with the resin of benzoin , of which the melting point is high .
With regard to the special action of such temperatures in altering the atomic constitution of the resins , the author finds that each resin undergoes a change , probably pecu ?
liar to itself , and probably depending on the nature of the organic radical it contains .
Thus , the formula for the resin of retin asphalt ( = C40 H27 06 ) by prolonged heating at the melting point becomes C40 H27 Ob .
Ammonia resin ( = C40 H25 Op ) by heating at 270 ?
Fahr. approaches to C40 Hi4 Os ; there being , however , a slight ex ?
cess of oxygen , and water not being the only volatile compound driven off .
The resin of opoponax , when thus heated the hydrogen , as in that of retin asphalt , remains nearly constant = C40 H25 014 , approaching to C40 H25 0J2 .
The same is the case with the resin of assafoetida ( = C40 Hi6 O10 ) , which by prolonged heating at about 250 ?
Fahr. , becomes C40 Hy6 0( ) .
These observations when multi ?
plied are likely to assist materially in leading to rational formulae , expressive of the molecular constitution of the resins .
In reference to the general questions , with a view to the solution of which the author undertook this investigation , he concludes : 1 .
That the resins are not to be considered as different compounds of one and the same radical , but rather as analogous groups of compounds of analogous radicals .
2 .
That as far as our present knowledge extends , all the true re ?
sins are capable of being represented by irrational formuhe , in which C40 is a constant quantity .
3 .
That the analyses contained in the present paper render necessary a slight modification in the general formulas previously announced .
The formula for the group of which colophony is the type , being C40 H32 +x Oy ; and that for the group of which gamboge or dragon 's blood is the type , being C40 H24 +x Oy .
The author announces a further continuation of these researches , in which the constitution of other resins will be given , and the re ?
lations of the resins to certain chemical reagents will be explained and illustrated .

