The Food of G. morsitans .
waterbuck .
T. bruceivel rhodesiensewas found in only one animal out of the sixteen , T. simicein none , and T. caprcc in three .
Conclusions .
1 .
The trypanosomes found in the wild morsitans and wild game of the Upper Shire " fly-area " are identical with those found 100 miles farther north in the Proclaimed Area .
2 .
The trypanosome causing disease in man in Nyasaland\#151 ; T. brucei vel rhodesiense\#151 ; is frequently met with , so that it is probable cases of this form of sleeping sickness will be found among the natives of this district .
The Food of Glossina morsitans .
By Surgeon-General Sir David Bruce , C.B. , F.R.S. , A.M.S. ; Major A. E. Hamerton , D.S.O. , and Captain D. P. Watson , R.A.M.C. ; and Lady Bruce , R.R.C. ( Scientific Commission of the Royal Society , Nyasaland , 1912-14 .
) ( Received April 7 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1914 .
) Five hundred flies , freshly caught in the Proclaimed Area , were killed by chloroform and the gut of each was roughly dissected out , smeared on a slide , , fixed by osmic vapour and alcohol , and subsequently stained by Giemsa .
The flies were all caught in the bush , away from the paths , the fly-boys proceeding-in single file and catching the flies with gauze nets as they circled round , or settled on the boys or the grass .
The proportion of male flies to females caught was roughly two to one .
But only 30 females were used in the present experiment , the majority being sent to the breeding-station at Chunzi .
Of the 500 flies examined , 288 , or 57'6 per cent. , were found to contain mammalian blood in a recognisable state .
No measurements were made of corpuscles , which in most cases were much altered by the digestive processes , but the small type of cell appeared to predominate , such as occurs in the hartebeeste , waterbuck , and other antelope .
In only three cases were nucleated red corpuscles found , and in two of these there was only a small proportion of nucleated blood mixed with a large amount of mammalian .
In the third case the blood was all nucleated .
Thus , of those flies which contained recognisable blood , only PO per cent. The Food of G. morsitans .
contained nucleated blood .
From measurements , it seems highly probable that in all three cases the blood was avian , not reptilian .
The average length of corpuscles and nuclei of blood from several different reptiles was measured and found to be\#151 ; corpuscles 15 microns , nucleus 5-9 microns ; while the blood of several different birds gave as the average\#151 ; corpuscles 1T8 microns , nucleus 4*6 microns .
In the three cases under consideration the average of the corpuscles was 105 , 10-0 , and 10'0 microns respectively , and that of the nuclei 4'7 , 4'8 , and 4*4 microns .
Probably the size of the nucleus is the better guide than that of the whole corpuscle , as being less altered by digestion .
In no case was vegetable matter noted in the intestinal contents .
Trypanosomes were found in 14 flies\#151 ; 2'8 per cent.\#151 ; but many of the smears were so thick and so much obscured by the fat-body and other structures of the fly , that probably trypanosomes were present in other cases .
Of the 30 female flies examined , 13 , or 43'3 per cent. , contained mammalian blood , and there was nothing to suggest that they differed in their feeding habits from the males .
From experiments with flies in the laboratory , it was found that blood is recognisable in stained specimens for two to three days after a feed , but not beyond the third day .
Hence it may be inferred that , roughly , half the flies examined had fed within , at most , three days of their capture , and that therefore the flies feed naturally at least once every six days .
Conclusions .
1 .
The food of Glossina morsitans consists mainly of mammalian blood ( 99 per cent. ) , chiefly from species of antelope , and what appeared to be avian blood ( 1 per cent. ) .
2 .
There is no difference in the feeding habits of males and females .
3 .
Probably the flies feed once in five or six days .

