]\gt ; essl. .
W. H. Preece and H. R. Kempe .
[ June 10 , all it is , at all events , very much higher than that which was assigned to it by Rowland .
* There may , perhaps , be some doubt whether the expression used above is exactly applicable to the case of my divided ring , and small errors may possibly .
be introduced by the fact that the contact between the opposite faces wae not quite perfect throughout .
But apart from minute accuracy of detail , the general character of the results is entirely free from doubt , and would be quite unaffected by a very large margin of uncerbainty in the expression .
They show that the generally accepted ideas with regard to ssve1al important points need modificatio1l .
Thus it is not true that the.lifting power of an electromagnet reaches a limit under a comparatively small magnetising force , and that even if excited by an infinibe current it could not snpport a weight of .
per square inch surface .
It is not true that the magnetisation of iron becomes sensibly constant when magnetic force exceeds a certain moderate value .
And it is not true ffiat the maximum of magnetic induction , if it exists at all , is represented by anything like so small a value as 18,000 units .
In conclusion , I have to express my great obligation to Lord Rayleigh for much valuable assistance advice in the Iation of this paper . .
' On a New Scale for Tangent Galvanometers By W. H. PREECE , F.R.S. , and H. R. KEMPE .
Beceived May 6 , 1886 .
Tangent galvanometers much used for the exact quantitative measurement of currents of considerable strength , such as are measured in amperes , but they are not so generally used for the measurement of smaller currents in milliamperes .
This arises from a notion that they are not sensitive enough ; albhough the most nsitive instrument in practice\mdash ; Sir William Thomson 's mirror galvanometer\mdash ; is a tangent instrument .
The ordinary forms \mdash ; Joule 's , Gaugain 's , or Helmholtz's\mdash ; are not very sensitive .
Their is hardly necessary to point out that if there is any limit to , the susceptibility , , must become negative when the magnetic force exceeds a certain value .
Maxwell appears to have considered this not impossible .
See " " Electricity vol. 2 , S844 .
The close agreement of the values of in Table II wiIh those oblained in the experiments of Stoletow ( so far as the latter affords strong evidence of the accuracy the method ( see " " Enc .
Brit 9th edit .
, vol. 15 ( 1883 ) , p. 255 ) .
1886 .
] On a Tangent Galvanometers .
FIG. 1 .
constant is about 3 , that is , 3 amperes are required to produce unit deflection of The Post Office has for many years used sensitive and portable form , having a constant of , for wires , batteries , and apparatus .
Two scales have been engraved the dial the inst ] ument , on } and the other in VOL. Messrs. W. H. Preece and H. R. Kempe .
[ June 1 divisions ; and to avoid parallax the indicator is reflected in a mirror , so that when the image and the indicator are in one line , no error from this cause occurs .
Mr. Eden , one of the assistant electricians of the Post Offlce , discovered while experimenting that the galvanometer could be made more sensitive to increments of current for high deflections if it were given a false zero .
In fact , if the instrument be " " slewed\ldquo ; round so that the plane of the coil makes an angle of with the meridian , then the instrument becomes twice as sensitive as it was before ; and he suggested a double scale such as is in Fig. 1 ( p. to utilise this fact .
This plan has been adopted , and all tangent galvanometers in the Post Office service will be gradually altered to the new scale .
quite clear that it owes its increased sensitiveness to the fact that when the necdle reaches its maximum deflection , its to the lines of force of the field is in the most favourable direction for deflection by the current .
In fact , the plane of the coil becomes parallel to the plane of the needie which is then in the most uniform portion of the field .
By changing the zero of the instrument the range of movement can be considerably incl'eased .
Thus if be the angle which the needle normally makes with the coil , and if be the angle to which thoe needle has been deflected on the other side of the coil , then , being the deftective force , we have\mdash ; where is a constant ; but if the needle were parallel to the coils , them\mdash ; therefore\mdash ; Now if we have , and if the current were sufficient to turn the needle through , or , that is , if we have , then\mdash ; , therefore\mdash ; or 1886 .
] On a New Scale for Tangent alvanometers .
that is to say , the angle through which the needle would have been turned when the zero was to one side of zero , would be twice what it would be if it had been deflscted from the ordinary zero .
The ratio of these angles , however , decreases in value , and at a certain point becomes equal to 1 ; that is to say , the angular deflection from the new zero is the same as it is from the old zero .
Let .
therefore , or If the angle is negative , that is to say , if the angular deflection from the new zero is than the angle , then we have\mdash ; or ; that is , 0 that is to say , .
be the angle ( the angular distance of the new from the old zero ) , then a current sufficient to move the needle a distance of from the old zoro would move it the same distance from the new zero .
If the deflection from the old be less than 500 Sir .
James N. Douglass .
[ June 10 , , then the deflection from the new zero will be less still ; so that there is no advantage the use of the new zero unless the deflections exceed If the angle be made greater than then the possible angular movement of the needle becomes further inoreased ; but inasmuch as any increase in ths length of the tangent scale brings the divisions at the ends of the scale proportionally closer together , and makes them more difflcult to read from , there would be 1io practical advantage in making the angle larger .
A marked advantage under cel'tain conditions is found when the new zero has such a value that the deflection from a given current causes the needle to move up to the ordinary zero , that is to say , to the position where the needle becomes parallel to the coil ; in this case the instrument becomes highly sensitive , and any increase in the strength of the current produces a very considerable change in the deflection .
VIIL ' ' On Fluted Craterless Carbons for Arc Lighting By Sir JAMES N. GLASS .
Communicated by Sir WILLIAM , F.R.S. Received June 4 , [ PDATB 6 .
] On the 8th December , 1858 , at the South Foreland High Lighthouse , and with the direct current magneto machines of Holmes , the first important applioation of the electric arc light , as a rival to oil and gas for coast lighting , was carried out by the Trinity House , under the advice of Faraday .
The carbons then used , and for several years afterwards , were sawnfrom the residuum carbon of gas retorts ; they were square in section , mm. , and the mean intensity of the arc , measured in the horizonal plane , was 670 candle units , being 17 candle units nearly per square millimetre of cross area of the carbon .
The crater formed at the point of the upper carbon of the " " HoImes\ldquo ; lamp was so small that no loss of light was found to occur , and the arc proved to be very perfect in affording an exceptiona.lly large vel.tical angle of radiant light for application with the optical apparatus as shown , one-third full size , in the sketch ( Plate 6 The most reliable and efficient machine that has yet been tried for lighthouse purposes is the large alternate ourrent magneto machine of De Meritens .
The results with these are as follows , .
:\mdash ;

