372 Lieut.-Col. A. Strange on a new Theodolite to certain delicate cells which are attached to the under surface of the membrana reticularis .
From this circumstance alone it appears very \#166 ; evident that these investigators had not suspected , much less discovered , the fact that the rods are most exquisitely graduated , for otherwise they could surely never have doubted that so beautiful and suitable an appa .
ratus could have any other ostensible purpose than that of appreciating the various sounds .
I consider , indeed , that the cochlea represents a musical instrument , similar in nature to a harp or musical box , the strings of the one and the teeth of the other being represented by the rods of Corti .
The spiral bony lamina is simply a sounding-board ; around the rods are placed the various nerve-cells and nerve-fibres , and from these cells the impressions are conveyed by the fibres to the brain itself .
It is possible , therefore , to trace very completely the course of sounds or vibrations from a musical instrument or any other source to the brain , through the medium of the ear .
First the vibrations are caught and collected by the auricle , and transmitted through the external meatus to the drum of the ear , next across the middle to the internal ear .
Here the sound is appreciated , merely as a sound , by the vestibule ; the direction is discovered by means of the semicircular canals ; but to distinguish the note of the sound , it must pass on to the cochlea .
The vibration therefore passes through the fluid of the cochlea and strikes the lamina spiralis , which intensifies and transmits the vibration to the system of rods .
There is doubtless a rod not only for each tone or semitone , but even for much more minute subdivisions of the same ; so that every sound causes its own particular rod to vibrate , and this rod vibrating , causes the nerve-cells in connexion with it to send a nerve-current to the brain .
In conclusion , I feel it my duty to mention that I am greatly indebted to Professor Rutherford , of King 's College , for suggesting the investigations which led to these results , as also for much valuable advice while prosecuting them in his laboratory at King 's College .
Addition to Lieut.-Col. A. Strange 's paper " On a new Great Theodolite to be used on the Great Trigonometrical Survey o India , with a short Note on the performance of a Zenith-Sector employed on the same work .
" ( See p. 317 .
) ( Received June 15 , 1872 .
) Since my paper with the above title was read , it has occurred to \#174 ; that some particulars as to the weight of the instrument might niter those engaged practically in Geodesical work .
The following are the weig of the main parts as separated for carriage :\#151 ; for the Indian Trigonometrical Survey .
373 lbs. ( 1 ) Stand , with Levelling-apparatus complete ... ... ... ... ... . .
108 ( 2 ) Iron Circle of Stand with 3 Centering-Screws ... ... ... ... 156 ( 3 ) Tribrach , with Horizontal Circle , Guard ditto , Vertical Axis , and Relieving-apparatus ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
180 ( 4 ) Vertical-Axis Socket , with 5 Horizontal-Microscope arms , Elliptical Table , Pillars , 2 Azimuthal Levels , 2 Vertical ditto , 2 Vertical Microscopes , 2 Pointer ditto , Horizontal Tangent-Screw plates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
235 ( 5 ) Telescope , with Vertical Circle ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 64 ( 6 ) Miscellaneous appliances and spare parts ( about ) ... ... ... 130 " Weight of Instrument ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 873 ( 7 ) Aggregate weight of field packing-cases , assumed at \#163 ; the weight of contents ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
582 Total weight of Instrument in field-cases ... .
1455 The heaviest package ( 4 ) packed in field order will be , " instrument 235 Ibs.-f case ( S ) 157 lbs. ; total 392 lbs. This is less by about 100 lbs. , according to my recollection , than the heaviest package of Troughton 's Great Theodolite , long in use with the Indian Survey , and with which I myself worked for five years in a country parts of which were extremely rugged and mountainous .
Expense apart , the portability of an instrument is of course defined by the weight of its heaviest portion .
Nevertheless the instrument is considerably heavier than I should wish .
There are three ways of diminishing this inconvenience :\#151 ; first , by diminished dimensions ; second , by mode of construction ; third , by choice of materials .
I will say a few words on each .
When the designing of this instrument was placed in my hands by Sir Andrew Waugh , the late Surveyor-General of India , he left the question to my decision whether the Horizontal Circle ( which governs the whole ) should be 30 or 36 inches in diameter .
With my five years ' experience of the larger size , and with ample experience of smaller ones , I deliberately preferred and adopted the larger , and am responsible for that decision .
I believe myself to be in the minority on this question ; but can only say that , if I had to use the instrument myself , I should still prefer the larger size , attaching , as I do , great importance to the greater optical power and the superior stability which are secured by it : for these I would myself willingly sacrifice convenience to a great extent .
By " mode of construction , " I mean particularly the degree in which the main parts are cast in single masses .
That principle , when the design was commenced , had been notably illustrated by the present Astronomer Royal ^\gt ; res^en( ' this Society , in the new instruments designed by him for , e 0yftl Observatory and now in use there .
Like many others , I was at cje fascinated by it ; but I am now disposed to think that this prin-mple has been carried too far in my own design under notice .
Discretion requisite in applying even an unquestionable principle .
And I now VOt* xx .
2 e 374 Lieut.-Col. A. Strange a new Theodolite .
think that it is not judicious to apply the same method to a portable as to a fixed instrument ; to do so introduces the difficulty of carriage , and this must result in curtailing size , and with it power .
Casting in masses pro .
fesses to diminish or eliminate the strains and tensions supposed to be incident to building up the structure with separate pieces .
Whatever may have been the case some years ago , I am disposed to believe that this superiority is now much less marked than it used to be , if , indeed , it exists at all at present .
Self-acting shaping-tools have been brought to such perfection , that the fitting of contiguous surfaces to each other can now be made practically absolute , to the exclusion of those strains which imperfect fitting must of course formerly have introduced .
Nor must it be forgotten that even casting in masses does not exclude irregular strains , and that the more unequal in thickness the different parts of a mass are , the more such strains are to be apprehended .
Let any one cast even so symmetrical a thing as a ring , say 3 feet in diameter and 3 inches thick , divide it into two halves , and afterwards attempt to fix these halves together ; he will find them infallibly distorted .
Every one who has turned large irregularly shaped masses of metal in a very accurate lathe , knows that every cut of the tool alters the general form of the mass .
In the instrument under discussion , the principle in question has , I now believe , been carried too far ; it has greatly increased weight , whilst I doubt whether it has diminished unequal tensions .
As to choice of materials , I have already mentioned that the use ot aluminium bronze has tended materially to diminish weight .
I am of opinion , however , that steel can now be employed for such a purpose almost exclusively , since at the present day it can be cast and worked as readily as brass , though of course at rather greater expense , owing to its hardness .
The various shaping-machines and drill-slotting machine\#174 ; give almost unlimited control oyer the forms that may be given to lit solid masses , while sheet-steel is now an article of ordinary commerce available for the tubular parts .
The nickelyzing process , now extensively employed in America , and becoming every day better known and appreciated here , effectually preserves steel from oxidation .
Practical surveyors are alive to the question of facility in dismantle\#174 ; packing , and setting up so large an instrument as this .
I am able to jgp some data on this head .
After exhibiting the instrument to the Society Burlington House , Piccadilly , it had to be removed to my Observatory , \#174 ; Belvedere Road , Lambeth ; it was taken to pieces , packed , loaded \lt ; nM van , conveyed to its destination , and again set up in the Observatory ready for adjustment and use in three hours .
I should mention that 1|| passages through which the various parts had to be carried froniill Meeting-room to the cases in the outer hall are tortuous , narrow , and \#187 ; that the distance from Burlington House , about If- mile , was traverse ^ a foot 's pace , in order that the men might be at hand in case of accui and that ten ordinary labourers of the India Store Department , with assistant apd myself , were employed in the operation .

