Fig. 3 .
G B B CC Philosophical Transactions B C fff ffffff D I fff V. Part of a Letter from Mr. Octavian Pulleyn , dated , Rome March 16 1696 , giving an account of an Inscription there found in the Language of the Palmereni ; and another in the Etruscan Language found on an old Urn .
DR. Halifax calling here in his return home from Aleppo , I had the honour of his acquaintance .
Among other things , he told me he was to search for an Inscription in the Language of the Palmereni mentioned by Dr. Spoon in his Misellanea Fol. p. 3 .
and desired my Assistance , which I readily offered him ; but Dr. Spoon saying only that it was in Rome , we were to seek , and the Weather being very bad ( it being Winter ) our enquiry was fruitless .
At his departure he enjoined me to find it out if I could .
Hearing Sign Fabretti Canon of St. Peter 's was publishing a Book of Old Inscriptions , I waited upon him , and by him was fully informed to my purpose .
He lent me also a Draught of it , and said no Person else had had it to Copy but one Grodeick of Dantzig .
I was well pleased with the information , and Paper I had got , but not satisfied till I had compared it with the Original .
I went as I was directed to the Vinea Cesarini about a Mile without the Porto del Popolo .
But notwithstanding all my pains could not find it ; some days after , upon a second search I found it , and upon comparing Signior Fabretti 's Copy found it not exact ; wherefore I took a wet Paper , and having first cleared the Letters with a Bodkin , laid it on the Characters , and pressing it with my Handkerchief took it off very fair , then letting it dry went over it with my Pen .
I send you the very Paper as you will perceive by the reverse ; and if it prove useful to you , I am very glad .
On the top of the Cypress which is upon one of the sides of the Marble , there is a Label for an Inscription , tho ' nothing upon it ; and just below it on the left side , part of a Boy appears out of the Tree with a Lamb upon his Shoulders , which is omitted in Dr. Spoon : And by the difference you 'll see betwixt this that I send , and that in Dr. Spoon , from Gruter ; you will perceive the latter taken rather by Imitation than by Stamp , and so less certain ; or else how much it has suffered by Transcriptions .
It ( the Stone ) appeared to me to have remained unmolested for some time , because from the Ground , the Inscription was overrun with Ivy , the Wood of which had crept into the Letters , and over the Gryphons and Figures above it .
This Vineyard belongs to Duke Cesarini lying on the side of a Hill , in which there were several Grotto 's , and Figures of Saints placed .
Before the Praemium for visiting of the Seven Churches was established , this place was much frequented by People for their diversion , and devotions in the Evenings .
And to entertain the Learned , and for Ornament of the place ; many Old Inscriptions in Marble were brought and fixed here , and this amongst others .
Next Week will be Published Pietro Sancta Bartoli 's Book of the Old Roman and Etruscan Sepulchers , lately found in A whole A whole Town of 'em with Streets , they joining like Houses one to another , each having their Columbaria .
Ollae ossaria , with Paintings , Inscriptions in Latin and the Old Etruscan Language and Characters , which was taken by him and cut in BrassSeignior Fabretti told me he had at least Fifty large Inscriptions in that Language sent him from several places in Tuscany , and gave me two , one in the Etruscan Characters , the other Roman , and withal said , that he designed to leave them out of the Book he was publishing , because he must be forced to have them done in Brass , or have Characters cut on purpose , which was too chargeable , and the words were unintelligible .
On the backside of the Inscription , I send you another Inscription on an Old Urn in the Etruscan Language the Character seems to be not much unlike the Runick .
See the Figure of the Palmyren Inscription Fig. 1 .
and the Etruscan , Fig. 2 .

