OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Frederick Le Gros Clark , F.R.S. , F.R.C.S.Eng .
, who died on the 19th July , 1892 , after a brief illness , at the ripe age of 81 , was born on the 7th February , 1811 , in Mincing Lane , the youngest ot nine children of a city merchant .
His early years were spent in the city .
In 1822 he went to reside as a pupil with the Rev. Ford Richardson , at Iron Acton , in Gloucestershire , where he remained four year 's .
Here he received a very excellent education .
He had always expressed a desire to become a Surgeon ; but his father , before deciding , consulted his friend , Mr. Benjamin Travel 's , then the distinguished Senior Surgeon to St. Thomas 's Hospital , who allowed the son to have the run of the hospital for a couple of months , at the end of which time his father gave him the choice of entering his own counting house or of being apprenticed to Mr. Travel 's .
In February , 1827 , at the age of 16 , he was apprenticed , and at once began his hospital career .
He appears to have been an industrious and distinguished pupil , for in 1830 he obtained the Cheselden Medal , and m the same year was appointed Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy , under Mr. Tyrrell .
He spent the summer session of this year in Dublin .
In 1833 he passed his examination at the Royal College of Surgeons .
The summer session of that year he spent in Paris , that of 1834 in Edinburgh , that of 1835 in Berlin ; and in 1836 he passed three months at Gottingen .
In 1837 he took rooms near the hospital and started in practice .
He continued working at the hospital , and teaching anatomy ; and in 1842 , when the Hospital Medical School was remodelled , he was elected Lecturer on Descriptive and Surgical Anatomy ; and in 1843 , on Mr. Tyrrell 's death , he was appointed Assistant Surgeon .
He then removed to Finsbury Square .
In 1847 he was elected Surgical Secretary to the Medico-Chirurgical Society , and in the following year moved to Spring Gardens .
In 1853 he was appointed full Surgeon to the hospital ; and increasing engagements compelled him to retire from the Chair of Anatomy in 1854 , though still retaining the lectures on Regional and Surgical Anatomy .
In 1858 he removed to St. Thomas 's Street , at the request of the Governors , and in 1860 became Lecturer on Surgery , an appointment which he held down to his retirement from the hospital .
In 1864 he was appointed Examiner in Surgery to the Royal College of b Physicians for two years ; and in July of the same year was elected a Member of the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons , and was at the head of the poll .
In 1866 he was appointed Examiner in Surgery to the University of London for a period of five years ; in 1867 Professor of Human Anatomy and Surgery to the College of Surgeons ; in 1868 Hunterian Professor of Surgery and Pathology ; and Examiner at the College in 1870 .
In 1872 he was appointed Vice-President of the College , and in 1874 President , giving the Hunterian Oration on the 13th February , 1875 , the forty-eighth anniversary of his apprenticeship to the college .
In 1872 be was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society .
In 1873 he retired from the hospital , having retained office for a year or two at the special request of the Governors .
In 1877 he gave up practice , and took up his residence permanently at Sevenoaks ; and in 1879 he retired from the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons .
But even after his retirement he remained a busy and active man .
He still continued Consulting Surgeon to the South Eastern Railway Company ; he was always ready to give professional assistance to his neighbours ; he was Consulting Surgeon to and an active Governor of the Hospital with w'hich he had been so long connected , took great interest in the welfare and progress of the Medical School , attended all anniversary and other important or interesting meetings , taking part in their proceedings ; and he retained his connexion with the Salters Company , of which he had been twice master , at twenty years ' interval .
It should be added , that in addition to other duties he was for some years Surgeon to the Magdalen Hospital and to the London 1 emale Penitentiary , and Consulting Surgeon to the Surrey County and Great Northern Hospitals .
Mr. Le Gros Clark was in many respects a remarkable man .
In the first place he had striking physical endowments ; he was tall and well made , spare but very muscular , singularly handsome , with dark curly hair and whiskers , dark grey eyes and bushy eyebrows , and well-formed features ; and was remarkably dignified and gentlemanly in appearance and demeanour .
As a young man he was a great athlete , excelling especially in rowing , boxing , and riding , and he retained this activity of body to the last .
He was hardly what one would term a genial man ; but he was a man of the highest character , he was absolutely unselfish and unself seeking ; whatever he undertook to do he did with all his might , he was perfectly truthful and trustworthy , and always kind and considerate for others , and a warm and appreciative friend .
He was a devout Christian , and member of the Church of England .
As a surgeon and a teacher he was excellent .
He was a thorough anatomist , and an admirable lecturer on anatomy .
He had had a wide experience as a surgeon , and was admirably well up in the subject ; he was conscientiously attentive to his patients , iii and neglected nothing for their benefit , and he was a faultless operator .
As a clinical teacher he was admirable .
He was not , and did not aim at being , a speaker of commanding eloquence ; nevertheless he was a most excellent and ready lecturer and speaker .
His manner was always quiet and gentlemanly ; his language was always simple and well chosen ; and his matter was always appropriate to the occasion .
He was consequently not only a clear and attractive lecturer , but he was a clear and attractive speaker on all festive and other occasions .
Although he was a scientific surgeon and anatomist he did not do much original scientific work .
He wrote many papers on points in anatomy and surgery that interested him ; he lectured ( as before stated ) at the Royal College of Surgeons .
He delivered three introductory addresses at St. Thomas 's Hospital .
While president he delivered the Hunterian Oration at the College of Surgeons , an address which was philosophical and full of thought .
He contributed a paper on ' The Mechanism of Respiration ' to the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' ( vol. 20 , 1872 ) .
In 1836 he published a work on the anatomy and physiology of the nervous system ; in 1847 and 1853 he translated two volumes of Dupuytren 's ' Le^ns Orales ' for the Sydenham Society ; he published ' Lectures on Surgical Diagnosis of Visceral Lesions ' in 1870 ; and ' Outlines of Surgery , ' of which a second edition appeared in 1872 ; Paley 's ' Natural Theology , ' edited for the S.P.C.K. in 1875 ; a little manual of physiology for the same society in 1883 ; several articles on anatomy and physiology in the ' Encyclopaedia Metropolitana ' about 1840 ; several papers in the ' Medico-Chirurgical Transactions ; ' critical articles in the ' British and Foreign Quarterly , ' and he made a few contributions of cases to the medical papers .
Lastly , he published a collection of * Miscellaneous Essays , ' which had already appeared in various periodicals , \amp ; c. J. S. B.

