2 On the Propagation of Earthquake Motion .
I. Vapour-density of Bromine at High Temperatures .
By E. P. Perman , D.Sc .
, and G. A. S. Atkinson , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor Ramsay , F.R.S. II .
Polytremacis and the Ancestry of the Helioporidse .
By J. W. Gregory , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professor Lankester , F.R.S. III .
Gold-Aluminium Alloys .
By C. T. Heycock , F.R.S. , and F. H. Neville , F.R.S. IY .
On the Association of Attributes in Statistics , with examples from the Material of the Childhood Society , \amp ; c. By G. Udny Yule .
Communicated by Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , Y. Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
III.\#151 ; On the Magnitude of certain Co-efficients of Correlation in Man , \amp ; c. By Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. ** On the Propagation of Earthquake Motion to great Distances .
" By B. D. Oldham , Geological Survey of India .
Communicated by Sir Robert S. Ball , F.R.S. Received June 16 , \#151 ; Read November 16 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) When preparing a report on the great Indian earthquake of 12th June , 1897 , the author noticed that the European records of this earthquake showed a phase of increased disturbance in what are commonly called the preliminary tremors , making , with the great undulations , three phases of motion .
He suggested that these three phases represented the arrival of ( 1 ) the condensational , ( 2 ) the dis-tortional waves travelling through the earth , and ( 3 ) surface undulations travelling round the earth .
The present paper is an attempt to verify these suggestions by a comparison with other earthquakes .
For this purpose a selection has been made from the published records of those earthquakes which fulfil the conditions ( 1 ) that the place of origin shall be known within 1 ' of arc , ( 2 ) that the time of origin shall be known within a limit of error of one minute , ( 3 ) that there shall be a sufficient number of records , distant more than 20 ' of arc from the origin , to serve as a check on each other .
Eleven distinct shocks , representing seven great earthquakes , are found to satisfy these conditions , and in every case the same three-phase character as was recognised in the earthquake of 12th June , 1897 , is found .
A comparison of time intervals and apparent rates of propagation shows

