An Essay on the Cohesion of Fluids .
By Thomas Young , M.D. For , Sec. R.S. Read December 20 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 65 .
] Dr. Young 's principal objects in this paper are to reduce the phenomena of the capillary action of fluids to the general law of an equable tension of their surfaces ; to investigate the properties of the curves resulting from this law ; to determine the magnitude of the apparent adhesion of solids to fluids , and the cohesion of moistened solids ; and to show in what manner the law itself is probably derived from the fundamental properties of matter .
Dr. Young observes , that a fluid which is not capable of wetting a given solid , forms with it an angle of contact which is constant in all circumstances ; that the curvature of the surface of a fluid , or the sum of the curvatures , where the curvature is double , is always proportional to the elevation or depression with respect to the general surface , and that the curve itself admits , in all cases , an approximate delineation by mechanical means , but is not always capable of being easily subjected to calculation .
When , however , the curvature is simple , the direction of the surface , at any given height , admits a correct determination .
Hence the elevation of a fluid in contact with a given surface , whether vertical , horizontal , or inclined , is deduced from its ascent between plates , or in a tube , of the same substance ; and the result is shown to agree with experiments .
Thus , taking 25-th of an inch for the diameter of a tube , in which water rises to the height of an inch , it is inferred that the apparent adhesion of water , to a square inch of any horizontal surface capable of being wetted by it , must be 50grains , which is only half a grain more than the result of Taylor 's experiments .
The adhesion of alcohol , and of sulphuric acid , as measured by Achard , are also found to agree with the ascent of those fluids in capillary tubes .
Lord Charles Cavendish 's table of the depression of mercury in barometer tubes , is compared with the same principles by means of diagrams constructed for each particular case ; and the apparent adhesion of the surface of mercury to glass , as well as the depth of a portion of mercury spread on a plate of glass , is deduced from these measures , and is shown to agree with experiments .
The observations of Morveau , on the attraction of the different metals to mercury , are also discussed ; and some remarks are made on the magnitude of drops of various substances .
The hydrostatic actions of these elevations and depressions of fluids are such as to afford a ready explanation of the attractions and repulsions of floating bodies : these attractions are found to vary ultimately in the inlverse ratio of the squares of the distances ; and they appear to be the same as are found to cause an apparent cohesion between any moistened surfaces nearly in contact : the magnitude of this cohesion , as measured , in a particular case by Morveau , being found to agree with the calculation of the effect of capillary action .
The attraction of a drop of a fluid towards the line of contact of two plates of glass , which was found by Hawkesbee to vary nearly in the inverse ratio of the square of the distance of the plates , was supposed by Newton to indicate an immediate cohesive force , varying in the simple inverse ratio .
But Dr. Young has shown that the fundamental law of the equable tension of the surface is sufficient to explain this phenomenon , and to remove the apparent irregularity in the laws of cohesive forces .
The equable tension of the surface is shown to be a consequence which may be mathematically deduced from the existence of a stable equilibrium between the forces of repulsion and of cohesion , which is a necessary condition of liquidity , as the repulsive force always variesmore rapidly than the cohesive force .
The mutual attractions of solids and fluids are then considered ; and Dr. Young agrees with Clairaut , although upon different grounds , in affirming that a fluid will be elevated when in contact with any solid of more than half its attractive density .
The tension of the common surfaces of a solid and a fluid , or of two continuous fluids , is supposed to be proportional to the difference of the attractive densities ; and this supposition is confirmed by some observations , with which the paper is concluded , on the phenomena of oily substances floating on water .

