8 .
" ' On the Nitroprussides , a new Class of Salts .
" By Dr. Lyon Playfair , F.R.S. , F.C.S. When nitric acid is made to act on yellow prusside of potassium , in the proportion of one equivalent of acid for every equivalent of potassium present in the salt , the following reactions are observed .
The salt dissolves in the acid with a dark red , almost black colour , a very little nitric oxide is evolved , which soon ceases , and is followed by a copious evolution of cyanogen mixed with nitrogen .
The continued action of the acid causes the liquid to cease the usual reactions of red prusside of potassium ; the addition of sulphate of iron now produces a slate-coloured instead of blue precipitate .
On allowing the solution to cool , abundance of nitrate of potash crystallizes out , mixed with a little prussian blue , and about 5 per cent. of the original weight of the salt , of a white granular substance , which is scarcely soluble in cold , and only very slightly so in boiling water .
This white substance , on examination , proves to be the remarkable body oxamide , the production of which in an oxidising medium is highly singular .
The dark red supernatant liquor , being neutralized with an alkaline carbonate , and boiled , deposits a green precipitate and yields a clear ruby-red solution .
This solution furnishes the new class of salts , which is the subject of this paper .
It may be evaporated to crystallization , and yields the nitroprusside of the base used in the neutralization .
The characters of the nitroprussides thus obtained are very marked , and cannot be confounded with those of any known class of salts .
With soluble sulphurets , the nitroprussides produce the most magnificent purple-coloured solution , and of such intensity , that they form by far the best test for the presence of a sulphuret , and betray its presence when the usual tests for a sulphuret are insufficient to expose it .
With a protosulphate of iron , the nitroprussides produce a salmoncoloured precipitate ; with salts of silver , zinc and cobalt , a precipitate of a flesh colour ; and with nickel , a dirty white precipitate .
With a salt of copper , the precipitate is of a light green , and with salts of lead , no precipitate is occasioned .
Nitroprussic acid is obtained by adding muriatic acid to the silver salt , and forms a dark red solution , which yields on evaporation in vacuo , large and well-defined crystals .
The nitroprussides of sodium , potassium , ammonium , barium and calcium , are all soluble and crystallize readily , forming fine large red crystals , which have been measured by Prof. Miller of Cambridge , and are described in the paper .
The salts of barium and calcium decompose on evaporation , and can after that no longer be obtained perfectly pure , having dissolved about one per cent. of the products of decomposition , which are not removed by subsequent crystallization .
Potash and soda in the cold unite with the nitroprussides , and form distinct salts , in which there is one equivalent of these alkalies for every equivalent of the baryle .
These alkalies when heated with the nitroprussides decompose them altogether , forming peroxide of iron , hyponitrites , oxalic acid and ordinary ferrocyanides .
Sulphuretted hydrogen and soluble sulphurets also decompose the nitroprussides .
The formula of the nitroprussides is remarkably complex .
Wellaccordant analyses of all the salts permit no simpler relation between their carbon and iron than 24 equivs. of the former to 5 equivs. of the latter .
The simpler proportion of 25 to 5 or 5 to 1 , cannot be drawn legitimately from their composition .
Analysis , and also a study of their transformation , show that they contain nitrous oxide , and have led to the complex formula Fe5Cy,12NO + 5R .
This is obviously a conjugate formula , and allows itself to be divided , for reasons now to be given , into the more simple expression 2(Fe2Cy5NO + 2R ) + ( FeCy , NO + R ) .
The relation of nitroprussides to ordinary prussides is supposed to be as follows ; Both the ferrocyanides and the ferridcyanides are supposed to contain a common radical , one being quadribasic and the other tribasic , just as in the case of the modifications of phosphoric acid .
A bibasic modification is therefore to be looked for .
The formulae would be as follows : Ferrocyanides ... ... ... .
( Fe2Cy6)+4R .
Ferridcyanides ... ... ... .
( Fe2Cy6 ) + SR .
Hypothetical compound. .
( Fe2Cy6)+2R .
The nitroprussides are supposed to correspond to the last of the series , in which one equivalent of cyanogen is replaced by one equiv. of nitrous oxide .
In the case of the beautiful purple compound produced by the soluble sulphurets on nitroprussides , this nitrous oxide is replaced by sulphuret of nitrogen .
The hypothetical bibasic prusside necessary to establish this view has not yet been obtained ; but the author states that experiments made with this view have already been so successful , that he shortly expects to announce it to the Society .

