Observations of a second Comet , with Remarks on its Construction .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read March 12 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 229 .
] The tendency of Dr. Herschel 's observations is to point out a difference between this second comet and the former , of which he lately gave an account to the Society .
The latter appeared to him as a nucleus about 5 " in diameter , surrounded by a very faint chevelure .
Since this appearanlce on the two first days of observation was not well defined , Dr. Herschel was in doubt whether to consider the nucleus as corresponding to the head of the former comet , or to the bright planetary body that he had observed in its centre ; being extremely small in comparison to the head , and as much too large to be supposed of a planetary construction .
But on two subsequent days of observation , the nucleus was pretty well defined , even with a power of 170 ; and the author was led to consider the latter as the more probable opinion .
On the fifth day of observation ( which was the last time that it could be seen , by reason of the interference of the moon 's light ) , Dr. Herschel attended carefully to the magnitudes of the body , as it appeared to different magnifiers ; and by subsequent comparison on the following morning of objects of known diameter with his recollection of these magnitudes , he determined the measure of the nucleus to have been 5"-2744 .
Since the distance of this comet from us was at that time rather greater than that of the sun , the real magnitude of the diameter thus measured is estimated at 2637 miles .
As the light of the chevelure was too feeble to be seen at this time , on account of the light of the moon , its greatest extent , in a direction opposite to that of the sun , was estimated from the observations made two days preceding , when it measured about 9 ' 40 " , and its length , consequently , 659,000 miles .
Dr. Herschel remarks , that the physical construction of this comet must have been extremely different from that of the former , approaching very nearly to the planetary condition , and having a diameter nearly one third that of the earth .
The light by which it was seen he also considers as planetary ; that is to say , reflected from the sun , and not phosphorescent , like the preceding ; for if this were self-luminous , says Dr. Herschel , we could hardly account for its little density , which would scarcely bear to be magnified even to 107 times , although the former was seen with a power of 600 even better than with one that was lower .
The chevelure , however , he conceives to consist of phosphoric matter suspended in an elastic atmosphere that surrounds the body of the comet ; and he ascribes the faint appearance of this chevelure , according to the theory advanced in his late communication , to the existence of a very small quantity of nebulous matter , which had not been consolidated by passing through a perihelion .
And hence , says the author , this last comet was but little more affected by a perihelion passage than a planet would have been .

