January 15 , 1852 .
COLONEL SABINE , V.P. , and Treas .
, in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled , " On the Development of the Ductless Glands of the Chick .
" By Henry Gray , Demonstrator of Anatomy at St. George 's Hospital .
Communicated by W. Bowman , Esq. , F.R.S. Received November 1.2 , 1851 .
In this paper the author has demonstrated the evolution of the spleen , supra-renal and thyroid glands , and the tissues of which each is composed , .
in order to show the place that may be assigned to each in a classification of the glands .
The spleen is shown to arise between the 4th and 5th days , in a fold of membrane which connects the intestinal canal to the spine ( the " intestinal lamina " ) , as a small whitish mass of blastema , perfectly distinct from both the stomach and pancreas .
This fold serves to retain it and the pancreas in connection with the intestine .
This separation of the spleen from the pancreas is more distinct at an early period of its evolution than later , as the increased growth of both organs causes them to approximate more closely , but not more intimately with one another ; hence probably the statement of Arnold , that the spleen arises from the pancreas .
With the increase in the growth of the organ and the surrounding parts , it gradually attains the position that it occupies in the full-grown bird , in more immediate proximity with the stomach ; hence probably the statement of Bischoff , that it arises from the stomach .
Later , when its vessels are formed , the membrane in which it was developed is almost completely absorbed .
The author then considers the development of the tissues of the spleen , which clearly establishes , not only the glandular nature of the organ itself , but the great similarity it bears with the supra-renal and thyroid glands .
The external capsule and the trabecular tissue of the spleen are both developed between the 8th and 9th days , the former in the form of a thin membrane composed of nucleated fibres , the latter consisting of similar fibres , which intersect the organ at first sparingly , and afterwards in greater quantity .
The development of the blood , vessels gnd the blood are next examined .
The former are , shown to arise in the organ independent of those which are exterior to it .
The development of the blood-globules is shown to arise from the blastema of the organ at ; the earliest period of its evolution , and continue their formation until its connection -with the general vascular seystem is effected , at which period their development ceases , No destruction of the blood-globules could ever be observed .
1These pbservations disprove the two existing opinions of the , use of the splee.n , as the blood-discs are not formed there ( excepting during its e ?
rly development ) , as stated by Gerlach and Sch4iffner ; nor are they destroyed there , as stated by Kolliker and Ecker .
The development of the pulp tissue is next examined .
At an early period this closely corresponds with the structure of the suprarenal and thyroid glands at the earliest stages of their evolution , consisting of nuclei , nucleated vesicles , and a fine granular plasma , the former forming a v , ry considerable portion of its structure .
When the splenic vessels are formed , many of these nuclei are surrounded by a quantity of fine dark granules arranged in a circular form , and these increase up to the time when the splenic vein is formed , when nearly the whole mass is composed of nucleated vesicles , the nuclei of which gradually break up into a mass of granules which fill the cavities of the vesicles .
The Malpighian vesicles are developed in the pulp by the aggregation of nuclei into circular masses , around which a fine membranesoon appears , in a manner precisely similar to those of the suprarenal and thyroid glands , with which they bear the closest analogy .
The author then traces out the developient of the svpra-renal glands , and shows the close analogy that exists between them , the spleen , and thyroid , from the similarity which their structure presents at the earliest period of their evolution with those glands , and from the development of the several tissues following the same st.ges in all .
They are shown to arise pn the 7th day as two separate masses pf blastema , situated between the upper end of the Woolfian bodies and the sides of the aorta , being totally independent ( as concerns their development ) of those bodies , or of each other , At this period their minute structure bears a close resemblance to that of the spleen , consisting of the same elements as that gland , excepting in the existence of more numerous dark granules , which give to the organ agt a later period an opake and darkly granular texture .
The gland tissue of the organ , in the form pf lirge vesicles , makes its appearance on the 8th day , whereas in the spleen it did not exist until near to the close of incubation , an .
interesting fact in ppnnection with the function of the former gland , which is mainly exercised during foetal life , whilst the spleen exerts its function mainly in adult life ; hence the difference in the development of the tissues at different periods .
The manner in which this tissue is developed is similar to that by which the glanrd tissue of thq ~pleen was formed , viz. by.an aggregation pf nuclei into cirpular masses , around which a limitary membrane ultimately forms : these are first grouped together in amass , without any subdivision into cortical and medu.llary portions .
O0n the 14th day the first trace of this subdivysion becomes manifest , by.the vesicles being aggregated into masses which radiate from the circumference towards the centre of the gland , in some cases complete tubes being formed by the junction of the vesicles , as indicated by hemispherical bulgings along their walls .
At a later period the organs increase in size , they attain their usual position , and a more complete subdivision into cortical and medullary portions is now observed .
The author lastly traces out the development of the thyroid glands , and shows the great similarity that exists between them , the spleen and supra-renal glands , from the similar structure they present , and from the development of those structures occurring in a similar manner in each .
These glands are developed between the 6th and 7th days as two separate masses of blastema , one at each side of the root of the neck , close to the separation of the carotid and subclavian vessels , and between the trachea and the branchial clefts , but quite independent , as far as regards their development , of either of those parts .
Their minute structure at an early period closely corresponds with that of the spleen and supra-renal glands .
Later , when the gland tissue of which the thyroid gland ultimately consists is formed , it is developed in a manner precisely similar to .
the same tissues of the spleen and supra-renal glands , a fact which shows the analogy they bear ta one another .
From these observations the author concludes that a close analogy exists between the glands already described , so that the propriety of their classification under one group , as the " Ductless Glands , " may be considered .
clearly proved .
And although the spleen by many has been excluded frpm them , the author considers that its classification with them is correct , for the following reasons:--lst .
From its evolution being similar with that of the supra-renal and thyroid gland ; 2nd .
from its structure , which at an early period closely corresponds with them ; and 3rdly , from the development of its tissues following the same law as that upon which the tissues of the allied glands are formed .

