1894 .
] On the Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
1 9 and tri-nitro-cellulose in proportion corresponding to the nitrogen as found by analysis .
The equation for Experiment C may he taken as follows :\#151 ; 50 per cent. 50 per cent , nitro-cellulose nitro-glycerin .
( N = 12'3 per cent. ) .
6[0i5"(Na)7 ] +2[C6H7(N03)302 ] + 3[C6H8(N03)2o7 } = 25COo + 23CO+8H + 30N + 30H2O .
The composition of this explosive , calculated from the foregoing formula and found by analysis , is as follows :\#151 ; Formula .
Analysis .
C ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 21-2 2115 0 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
60-8 60-67 H ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2-5 2-67 N ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 15-5 15-58 100-0 100-07 These are some of the principal features noticeable in a preliminary survey of these experiments .
We ai*e continuing our investigations on the lines indicated in the paper , and are especially endeavouring to measure the actual temperature of explosion under varying conditions , and it is hoped that the results obtained will throw some light on the chemical and physical properties of many gases at high temperatures and under considerable pressures , and , at the same time , he useful in the practical application of explosives .
IV .
" On the Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
" By Charles Davison , M.A. , Mathematical Master at King Edward 's High School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor J. H. Pointing , F.R.S. Received February 28 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) On August 4 , 1893 , at 6.41 p.m. , an earthquake of intensity nearly equal to 6 ( according to the Rossi-Forel scale ) was felt over the whole of Leicestershire and Rutland and in parts of all the adjoining counties .
The disturbed area was 58 miles long , 46 miles broad , and contained an area of about 2066 square miles .
The direction of the longer axis ( about W. 40 ' N. and E. 40 ' S. ) and the relative position of the isoseismal lines show that the originating fault , if the earthquake were due to fault-slipping , must run in about the direction indicated , passing between Woodhouse Eaves and Markfield , and heading 20 Capt. E. H. Hills .
[ May 10 , towards the north-east .
The anticlinal fault of Charnwood Forest , so far as known , satisfies these conditions , and it is highly probable that the earthquake was caused by a slip of this fault .
The beginning of the sound preceded that of the shock in all parts of the disturbed area ; the end of the sound followed that of the shock in the central district and in the neighbourhood of the minor axis , but preceded it near the end of the major axis .
Thus the sound apparently outraced the shock in the direction of the major axis , but not in that of the minor axis .
These time-relations of the sound and shock can be readily explained if the area over which the fault-slip took place were several miles in length , for the sound in all probability is due to small and rapid vibrations proceeding chiefly from the margins of that area .
The intensity was greatest at and near Woodhouse Eaves , and it is probable that the fault-slip began in the neighbourhood of this place , gradually diminishing in amount in either direction , rather rapidly towards the north-west , and much more slowly towards the south-east ; the rate at which the slipping advanced being greater than the velocity of the earth-wave .
The total length of the fault-slip may have been as much as 12 miles or even more , and there can be little doubt that it was continued for some distance under the Triassic rocks on which Leicester is built .
V. " The Total Solar Eclipse of 16th April , 1893 .
Report on Results obtained with the Slit Spectroscopes.* ' By E. H. Hills , Capt. R.E. Communicated by the Joint Solar Eclipse Committee .
Received March 7 , 1894 .
The parties in Brazil and Africa were both supplied with these instruments , two being sent to each station .
The instruments were arranged to take one photograph only during the eclipse with an exposure as long as possible .
It was considered that the amount of light available would not allow of more than one successful exposure being made .
Of the four resulting photographs , one of those taken in Brazil was unfortunately not finished before the sun reappeared , whilst the other shows a faint corona spectrum with a strong sky spectrum on both sides , and a considerable amount of general fog over the plate .
I have been able to detect nothing of interest in this photograph , for the Fraunhofer lines overlap the corona spectrum to such a degree that it is impossible to distinguish any bright lines with certainty .
The instrument employed in Africa consisted of two spectroscopes , on one equatorial mounting .
The first spectroscope had two prisms ,

