Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , semi alio stato di riposo , " ' Estratto dal Bullettino della Society Botanica Italiana , ' Firenze , 10 Novembre , 1907 .
M. Edouard Morren , " Note sur le R61e des Ferments dans la Nutrition des Plantes , " ' Acad6mie Boyale de Belgique , ' 21 Octobre , 1876 .
M. Ch. Des Moulins , " Relatifs a la Faculty Germinative conservee par quelques Graines Antiques , " ' Actes de la Societe Linneenne de Bordeaux , ' Juillet , 1846 .
Adrian J. Brown , " Enzyme Action , " 'Transactions of the Chemical Society , ' 1902 , ' vol. 81 .
Arthur Dean , " On Proteolytic Enzymes.\#151 ; I , " ' Botanical Gazette , ' May , 1905 , vol. 39 , No. 5 .
Acton , ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 7 , No. 27 , September , 1893 .
Just , 'Cohn 's Beitrage , ' vol. 2 , 1877 .
Brown and Escombe , ' Science , ' N. Ser. , vol. 8 , 1898 , p. 215 .
Yon Hobnel , ' Haberlandt 's Wiss.-prakt .
Unters .
, ' II , 1877 .
Dyer , Thiselton , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 65 , p. 362 , 1899 .
Becquerel , Paul , 'Ann .
Sci. Nat. , Bot. , ' ser. 9 , vol. 5 , 1907 ; ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 143 , 1906 , p. 974 ; ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 143 , 1906 , p. 1177 .
Kolkwitz , ' Ber .
Deut .
Bot. Gesell .
, ' vol. 19 , p. 285 , 1901 .
Croonian Lecture.\#151 ; The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
By E. A. Schafek , E.R.S. ( Lecture delivered June 10 , \#151 ; MS .
received July 22 , 1909 .
) The observation of P. Marie ( 1885 ) that the disease to which he has given the name " acromegaly " is associated with tumours of the pituitary body has caused this organ to attract the recent attention of pathologists to a greater degree than any other of the structures which were formerly classed together under the generic name " ductless glands .
" Since Marie 's description of that disease , very many cases have been recorded , and in most of these the same association has been noticed .
The most striking sign of acromegaly is the increased growth of certain parts of the skeleton , especially the lower jaw and the extremities of the limbs , with hypertrophy of the connective tissue ; indeed , the enlargement of the hands and feet is frequently the first change which calls attention to the existence of the disease , the patient finding that his gloves and boots are becoming too small for him .
In the later stages there is dorsal kyphoscoliosis .
Headache is a prominent symptom , polyuria is often present , and the eyesight is frequently affected .
Acromegaly usually occurs in adults , often about middle age , although it may begin during adolescence .
An allied affection\#151 ; ( pathological ) gigantism\#151 ; which occurs before normal 1909 .
] The Functions oj the Pituitary Body .
growth is completed , is accompanied , in addition to many of the above symptoms , by an increase in length both of the limb bones and of the trunk , so that the patient affected attains an altogether unusual stature .
This also has been found in most cases that have been examined to be associated with tumours of the pituitary body and a concomitant enlargement of the sella turcica .
It is probably the case that the changes in the skeleton in acromegaly and gigantism are due to the same cause , operating , perhaps , at different stages during the progress of growth , and that this cause is to be found in an alteration in the functions of the pituitary body.* Assuming from what is known of the above diseases that the functions of this organ , or of a part of it , have to do with the growth and nutrition of the skeletal tissues , it has still to be decided whether the increased and abnormal growth which is met with in them is due to diminution or excess of the activity of the gland .
The former view was taken by Marie , who noticed\#151 ; as others have done since\#151 ; that the nature of the tumour which is found after death is often such as to have produced complete destruction of the organ , a cancerous or sarcomatous formation having been frequently described .
Those who uphold this view look upon the gland as in some way\#151 ; probably by means of an internal secretion or hormone\#151 ; regulating the growth of the skeleton , which in the absence of such regulation proceeds abnormally .
But the opposite view ( Tamburini , 1894 , and Woods-Hutchinson , 1894 ) has also been advocated , viz. , that the symptoms of acromegaly and of gigantism are due to a hypertrophic condition of the pituitary , or , according to the very probable suggestion of Woods-Hutchinson , of its anterior lobe alone , which may be considered to produce too great a quantity of a hormone which stimulates bone-growth .
The most important argument in favour of this view is derived from the fact that the pituitary tumours which have been found to be associated with the acromegalic condition have in many instances , especially where the tumour has not been unusually large , been described as a simple glandular hyperplasia of the anterior lobe .
And in a few cases of acromegaly which have been noted to be unaccompanied by any distinct enlargement of the pituitary , the glandular cells have been described as unusually full of the granules which are generally regarded as indicative of the secretory activity of the cells .
On the other hand , the numerous instances in which after death the glandular substance of the organ has been found entirely destroyed and replaced by cells of the types met with in malignant growths seem at first to offer difficulty to the acceptance of this view , and to favour the opinion * Cf .
Woods-Hutchinson ( 1898 , 1900 ) .
According to Woods-Hutchinson , the connection between acromegaly and gigantism was first suggested by Cunningham ( 1891 ) .
Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , propounded by Marie that the symptoms have been produced by suppression of the internal secretion .
But to this it may be replied that in such cases\#151 ; as , in fact , is not unfrequent in tumours of glandular organs\#151 ; it is possible to assume that the tumour at its beginning was non-malignant and of the nature of a simple hyperplasia , the malignancy of character being established later , and only then proceeding to destruction of the glandular type of cell .
The chronic character of the affection favours on the whole this supposition .
For it appears to be established experimentally that complete extirpation or destruction of the gland is incompatible with continuance of life for more than a few days at the utmost .
If we assume\#151 ; which we are not entirely justified in doing\#151 ; that destruction by disease will have a similar result , then we should expect , if acromegaly be due to hypertrophy and increase of activity of the gland , that as long as such a tumour is merely glandular and benign , the series of symptoms which characterise the disease would gradually develop , and it is a known fact that in most recorded cases it has pursued a slow course with a gradual development of the characteristic signs .
It is unlikely that at this stage the tumour which is forming is already malignant , and especially that it has assumed a sarcomatous character , which is that which has perhaps been most often described 'post mortem in this disease .
It is more probable that the malignant character has become developed shortly before death , and by no means improbable that death has resulted from entire suppression of the function of the gland owing to destruction of the normal glandular cells by those of a malignant nature .
One must at the same time bear in mind the existence of other possible causes or contributory causes of death , such as the pressure of the tumour upon the base of the brain and the mere existence of malignant disease .
But in many cases the tumour 'has not been of sufficient size to justify death being attributed to these causes , and the assumption that it has resulted from destruction of the normal glandular tissue is probably correct .
If the symptoms of acromegaly are due to an excess of secretion from the gland , one would not expect amelioration as the result of pituitary feeding .
Campbell Geddes ( 1908 ) mentions a case in which the patient became rapidly worse when pituitary and ovarian extracts were given .
In this case the pituitary was 30 times the normal weight , and showed simple hypertrophy of the anterior lobe tissue only .
There was no polyuria , although this condition is often found either with or without glycosuria in both acromegaly and gigantism .
Its occurrence is best explained , as will be presently seen , by supposing the posterior lobe , or , at least , the pars intermedia , to participate in the hyperfunctioning of the anterior lobe .
1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
Before proceeding further it is necessary to refer to certain facts relative to the structure , development , and functions of this organ .
Development .
Begarding its development , it is known to have a double source of formation , a hollow extension from the buccal ectoderm towards the base of the brain being met by a hollow extension of the neural ectoderm occupying the situation of the future infundibulum .
The two extensions eventually grow together and constitute the pituitary body , the buccal ectoderm , which loses its connection with the alimentary tube , forming the anterior lobe and pars intermedia , i.e. by far the larger portion of the organ ; while the neural ectoderm becomes developed into the posterior or nervous lobe .
This retains in some animals its hollow connection through the infundibulum with the third ventricle of the brain , although in man and other Primates it becomes entirely solid.* Structure .
The structure of the parts which are thus so differently formed in the embryo is also , in the adult , entirely different .
For while the pars nervosa s. posterior shows no development of any tissue which can be supposed to possess either nervous or glandular activity\#151 ; consisting as it does mainly of neuroglia elements with very few vessels\#151 ; the pars anterior is formed of a highly differentiated epithelium-like tissue , very richly supplied with large and thin-walled capillary blood-vessels , many of its cells being filled with granules such as are characteristic of glandular structures .
The appearance of the pars anterior is , in fact , precisely that of an organ which has the property of forming a secretion which is passed from its cells directly into the blood-vessels , and one would , without hesitation , class it amongst the internally secreting glands .
The pars anterior in man and in most animals is separated from the posterior lobe by a cleft-like cavity , which is the remains of the original hollow of the outgrowth from the buccal ectoderm .
But the epithelial tissue immediately adjoining this cleft , and especially that which impinges on the pars nervosa , is of a different character from that of the pars anterior .
The cells are less distinctly granular : they tend to be arranged in islets separated by intervening tissue which is continued between them from the * This description of the development and structure of the mammalian pituitary body is based upon the investigations of Herring ( 1908 ) , which is itself supplementary to and in many particulars confirmatory of the results of former observers .
446 Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , pars nervosa , and many of the islets are hollow , forming small vesicles which are occupied by a " colloid " material .
The inter-epithelial tissue is far less vascular than that of the pars anterior .
But this tissue also exhibits " colloid , " which is contained in spaces prolonged into the pars nervosa , and the same material can even be seen discharging into the prolongation of the infundibulum which enters the pars nervosa .
Indeed , in some animals { e.g. cat ) the infundibulum extends as a hollow canal as far as the pars intermedia , and this canal receives the colloid secretion of that part of the gland .
The pars intermedia differs , therefore , from the pars anterior not only in the structure of its cells but also in the fact that its secretion\#151 ; which is no doubt represented by the " colloid " material\#151 ; is , in all probability , not taken up directly into the blood but is passed into the infundibulum and thus into the third ventricle .
The discovery of this difference , which must be regarded as a fact of great importance in the physiology of the pituitary , is due to the investigations of Herring ( 1908 ) , who has further found that the amount of such colloid which is discharged into the infundibulum is greatly increased after removal of the thyroid in animals .
It is true that an increase in the amount of " colloid " in the pituitary body had previously been noted after thyroidectomy ; but this " colloid " was located by previous observers in the anterior lobe , and was supposed to pass into the blood-vessels , whereas it has been shown by Herring to be a product of the cells of the pars intermedia and to pass into the infundibulum and third ventricle .
Functions .
The first investigations of a strictly physiological character which were-instituted to determine whether the pituitary body possesses any active function were those of Oliver and myself ( 1895 ) .
We found that aqueous or saline extracts\#151 ; which may be boiled without losing their activity produce , when injected into the blood-vessels , a rise of blood-pressure which is comparable to that produced by similar extracts of the suprarenal capsules .
We further showed that this effect is produced by an action upon the peripheral arteries , which are caused strongly to contract , in this also ' resembling the action of the active principle obtained from the suprarenals ; but far more prolonged , and not due to the presence of that substance in the extract .
We did not in these experiments obtain any marked effect upon the rate of the heart 's beat , an acceleration of which is a characteristic feature of the action of suprarenal extract , after the vagi have been cut oi paralysed ( prior to which there may be some inhibition ) .
Nor did we 1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
differentiate between the action of the different parts of the gland , having used extracts of the whole pituitary body .
Howell ( 1898 ) carried the investigation further , and added considerably to our knowledge of the action of extracts of the gland .
He split it into anterior and posterior parts , and determined that whilst the extract of the former is without physiological activity when injected into a vein , that of the latter produces the effects upon blood-pressure and bloodvessels which Oliver and I had obtained from extracts of the whole gland .
Howell further found the rise of blood-pressure to be accompanied by a slowing in the action of the heart , and that both the raised blood-pressure and slow cardiac rhythm might be maintained for a considerable time .
And that if a second dose be administered intravenously within a certain time\#151 ; which varies from half an hour to an hour or more\#151 ; after the first dose , these effects are not repeated\#151 ; in other words , a certain immunity is established which only slowly passes off .
Swale Vincent and I ( 1899 ) repeated Howell 's observations .
We were able to confirm them in almost every particular , but found that the cardiac slowing described by Howell is not constant , and that when present it is not abolished by section of the vagi or the action of atropine .
It is , therefore , of peripheral origin , and not due to the same cause as the inhibition which often accompanies the action of adrenin , which is brought about by an action upon the cardio-inhibitory mechanism in the bulb .
We also found that not only is there generally no rise of blood-pressure resulting from a second or third dose of the extract of posterior lobe , but there is invariably a fall , which , however , lasts only a short time .
We showed that this fall of blood-pressure is due to a depressor substance acting upon the blood-vessels ; that the substance is soluble in alcohol , in which the pressor substance is insoluble ; and that it is not identical with cholin , which has a similar action , and might be supposed to have been extracted from the nervous tissue of the lobe .
These facts have now been corroborated by many experimentalists , and it has recently been shown that they hold good for extracts of the human pituitary ( Halliburton , Candler , and Sikes , 1909 ) .
But the action upon the circulatory organs does not exhaust the effects of such extracts .
For in the course of certain experiments which Dr. E. Magnus and I were conducting in the summer of 1901 , we incidentally noticed , as one of the results of intravenous injection , a marked increase in the flow of urine from the ureters .
Pursuing the subject further , in association with Herring ( 1906 ) , the fact became evident that the aqueous extract of the posterior lobe \#151 ; including the pars intermedia , which comes away with it when it is Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , separated from the anterior lobe\#151 ; has a specific action both upon the renal vessels and upon the kidney cells .
For whereas this extract produces contraction of most of the arteries in the body , it has the opposite effect upon those of the kidney , causing them to dilate , although this dilatation , which is very marked and lasting , may be preceded by a short period of contraction .
The increase in flow of urine , although no doubt greatly assisted by the dilatation of the kidney vessels , which is coincident with a rise in general blood-pressure caused by contraction of other arteries , is not entirely produced by the vascular changes .
For it may occur without them , as in the case when a repeated dose of the !
extract is administered intravenously within a short interval .
In such cases , as we have seen , the rise of blood-pressure may fail altogether , or even be replaced by a temporary fall , and there may also be no further dilatation of the kidney produced ; nevertheless , the diuretic effect may still occur , and this can only be explained by supposing that there is some substance in the extract which acts by directly stimulating the secretory activity of the cells .
Moreover , I have had occasion to observe that the converse of this experiment may occasionally be obtained , and this with a first dose ; the normal effects of rise of blood-pressure and dilatation of kidney being produced without any increase in flow of urine ( see fig. 1 ) .
It is further noticeable that in a large proportion of experiments a common phenomenon is a temporary diminution or cessation of urine flow , even although the blood-pressure is raised to a considerable extent and the kidney volume markedly increased ; conditions which\#151 ; on the mechanical or filtration theory of urine secretion\#151 ; should inevitably produce diuresis .
There is , in fact , very often at first an inhibition of secretion ( followed in the majority of cases by the characteristic secretory activity ) , even although the vascular conditions are throughout favourable to the occurrence of free secretion.* The extract is therefore liable to cause two effects which are antagonistic to one another .
The most reasonable explanation of this is afforded by the supposition that the gland contains not only a substance which stimulates the kidney cells to activity but also another substance which depresses their activity , and this to so great an extent in certain cases that the kidney ceases to secrete , although all the vascular conditions for urine secretion are of the most favourable character .
Nevertheless , the secretory substance usually ultimately proves the more potent : or it may be that the kidney cells are more susceptible to its influence .
* These facts are illustrated by several of the tracings given in the paper in the 'Phil .
Trans. ' for 1906 by Herring and myself .
This paper deals exclusively with the effects upon the kidney and urine-flow of extracts of pituitary .
\#166 ; Fig. 1.\#151 ; Cat : chloroform-alcohol .
Tracing of kidney volume , blood-pressure and rate of flow of urine .
At the place marked by the signal a small dose of extract of posterior lobe was administered intravenously .
The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
449 Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , These two substances are not the same as those which influence the bloodvessels of the kidney , which may also be affected in opposite ways .
For although the most striking effect upon kidney volume is to produce augmentation , this augmentation is in a large number of cases preceded by a temporary diminution .
But the temporary diminution of volume of the kidney is not the cause of the temporary diminution or cessation of urine-flow , which , as above noted , is frequently seen as the first effect of an intravenous injection ; for the diminution ( or cessation ) of flow may last long after the diminution of volume has disappeared , and even after this has become replaced by a large augmentation of volume.* Finally , an important fact in the physiology of the pituitary body is that which was first satisfactorily determined from the experiments of Paulesco ( 1907 ) , viz. , that this organ , small though it is ( it weighs about ^ gramme in man ) , is essential to life .
Animals from which it is removed were found by Paulesco inevitably to die , usually within 48 hours\#151 ; indeed , sometimes within 24 hours , although in others the fatal result was delayed to three or four days .
Previous observers had obtained contradictory results , some denying that the removal or destruction of the gland produces any appreciable result ( Friedmann and Maas , 1900 , Lo Monacho and Van Pynberg , 1901 ) , others averring that it is fatal but that life may be prolonged after removal for several days or weeks ( Marinesco , 1892 , Yassale and Sacchi , 1892 , Narbutt , 1903 ) .
But the methods which were adopted before Paulesco 's work was published were not calculated to inspire confidence that the removal of the gland was complete , since in them attempts were made to arrive at the situation of the pituitary either through the base of the skull or through the vertex .
By both methods the difficulties of the operation are very great , as are the liabilities to haemorrhage and to injury of adjacent parts of the brain .
Moreover , no clear view can be obtained of the gland by those methods , and the operator works largely in the dark .
Paulesco arrives at the gland from the side through the temporal bone , which is removed freely on both sides , an incision also being made in the dura matter .
Through this on the one side a retractor is introduced , and the side of the brain gently elevated until the reddish-yellow pituitary body is seen lying in the sella turcica .
It can , in the dog , easily be shelled out of this with a small curette , and the brain may then * These observations of Herring and myself upon the effects of pituitary extracts upon the renal blood-vessels and on the secretory functions of the kidney have been confirmed by J. Pal ( 1909 ) , who states , however , that the dilatation effect is produced on the peripheral branches only of the renal arteries , the main trunks participating in the constriction which is produced in the vessels generally .
Pal also finds that the coronary vessels participate in the general constriction of blood-vessels caused by pituitary extract , which in this respect also differs from suprarenal extract .
1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
451 be allowed to resume its normal position and the wound closed .
The animals show , on recovery from the anaesthetic , at first , as a rule , no adverse symptoms and take their food readily ; but in the course of the second day they begin to exhibit lassitude , and they die , without any very clear cause , within 48 hours .
Paulesco performed numerous experiments on various animals belonging to different classes of vertebrata , always with a similar result .
Control experiments in which there was a rehearsal of the whole operation , but without actual removal of the pituitary , produced no effect ; death , therefore , must have resulted from the removal of this body .
Similar experiments have been carried out in the Hunterian Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University , by Harvey Cushing , in conjunction with Reford ( 1909 ) .
Their experiments have been entirely on dogs , altogether 16 in number.* The method employed is in the main that used by Paulesco , but with one or two improvements of technique .
The results of complete extirpation were uniform and entirely confirm Paulesco 's conclusion .
Livon ( 1909 ) has also performed confirmatory experiments.f These experiments exhibit the serious danger that lurks in any proposal for entire removal of the pituitary for tumours .
It is clearly necessary that some portion be left in order that the functions of the gland , which are essential to life , may be carried on .
For it has not been found possible either by grafting pituitary or by feeding with pituitary substance to sustain life after removal of this organ\#151 ; as in the otherwise analogous case of complete thyroidectomy .
It is not yet known which part of the pituitary is essential to life .
It is almost impossible to remove one part alone , so closely are they dovetailed into one another ; indeed , the pars nervosa and pars intermedia are in direct continuity , and both are almost completely enclosed within the pars anterior .
Paulesco states that the mere separation of the pars nervosa from the infundibulum has sometimes proved equally fatal with the actual removal of the gland .
In view of the discovery by Herring that the secretion of the pars intermedia discharges through the pars nervosa into the infundibulum , this statement of Paulesco is of great interest .
But it still requires confirmation .
* Cushing has since reported 100 cases of total or partial hypophysectomy , * Journ Amer .
Med. Assoc. , ' July 24 , 1909.\#151 ; [ Note added August 3 , 1909 .
] t It has recently been denied by Fichera ( 1906 ) and by Gemelli ( 1908 ) that destruction of the hypophysis is followed by a fatal result .
I am convinced , however , from my own experience , that in such cases the destruction could not have been complete .
My experiments in this direction , although less numerous , confirm those of Paulesco and of Cushing and Reford , but I have not thought it necessary in the present communication to refer to them in detail .
Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , Masay ( 1908 ) has endeavoured to produce " pituitary insufficience , " i.e. a diminution or interference with the functions of the gland , by preparing an antiserum or cytotoxine by intraperitoneal injection of a guinea-pig with an emulsion of dog 's pituitary at intervals of two days , and after five injections collecting the blood of the guinea-pig , centrifugalising it , and injecting the serum ( about 10 c.c. ) under the skin of a dog .
After two or three such injections the dogs , according to Masay , show symptoms which he interprets as due to pituitary insufficience , viz. , loss of flesh , muscular weakness , especially in hind limbs , and modifications in the skeleton , accompanied by histological changes in the pituitary ; the symptoms constituting , according to Masay , a veritable cachexia But such experiments require to be multiplied and carefully controlled before the results can be accepted as produced by changes in the pituitary body .
Various views other than those here set forth have been taken regarding the functions of the pituitary .
Cyon , who was one of the first to study the effects of intravenous injections of pituitary extracts , considers that the gland secretes several active substances , one of which in particular acts upon the regulator nerves of the heart\#151 ; especially the vagus\#151 ; increasing the force of the beats and slowing the action of that organ , this being accompanied by a raising of blood-pressure ; an action somewhat like that of muscarine .
Cyon also states that direct excitation of the gland in situ , whether electrical or mechanical , is capable of producing effects of a similar character to intravenous injection .
According to Pirrone ( 1903 ) and to Livon ( 1908 ) these effects are not due to excitation of the hypophysis but of adjacent parts of the brain or its membranes .
But Cyon states that after extirpation of the pituitary the effects are not got ; nor according to him is a rise of blood-pressure obtained in the carotids on compressing the aorta in a hypophy-sectomised animal .
Masay ( 1908 ) has repeated these experiments and obtained results similar to those of Cyon , but was inclined to attribute them to operative shock , although recognising that this explanation offers difficulties .
Cyon believes that the pituitary is an organ which is closely inter-related to the thyroid , being set in activity by differences of pressure within the skull , and influencing the flow of blood to the brain through the thyroid .
Rogowitz ( 1889 ) and others have regarded the pituitary as supplementary or vicarious in its functions to the thyroid apparatus , this term including the parathyroids , but it is difficult to reconcile this view with the results yielded by experiments on the effects of extracts of the two glands and on the results of extirpation .
An antitoxic function has also been ascribed to the organ , certain observers looking upon the gland as destined to neutralise poisons of bacterial origin or even poisonous substances produced by the tissues .
This view was suggested , but apparently afterwards relinquished by Marie , and has been upheld by Guerrini ( 1904 ) , Gemelli ( 1906 ) , and Thaon ( 1907 ) , who describe structural appearances in the pituitary after poisoning with bacterial products and with certain drugs which they regard as evidences of a functional reaction or hyperactivity .
Such a conclusion does not , however , appear to be justified by the facts observed .
It seems , at any rate , clear that we must look upon the anterior lobe as different in function from the posterior lobe ( including the pars intermedia ) , and it is advisable to study these parts as far as possible separately .
1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
Present Observations .
During the last two years I have been engaged in attempting to elucidate the question of the function of the several parts of the organ .
Dr. W. Cramer at first , and more lately Dr. H. Pringle , have materially assisted me in chemical examinations connected with the research , and Dr. Pringle has given me help in various other ways , including the histological examination of the pituitaries .
I am indebted to Messrs. Burroughs , Welcome , and Co. for a supply of material in the shape of pituitaries in both the fresh and prepared condition .
Most of the pituitary material used has been obtained from fresh ox pituitaries which had been kept for a few days ( while being collected and sent ) in a bottle with chloroform .
Each gland was then taken , its connective tissue capsule removed , and the larger anterior part separated from the much smaller posterior part\#151 ; the latter including also the pars intermedia .
The separated portions were spread thinly on glass and dried thoroughly on a warm plate at a temperature of about 40 ' C. , and in this state were powdered and preserved .
Anterior Lobe .
Feeding Experiments .
With this material a series of feeding experiments has been planned and in part carried out on white rats , both young and adult , the animals being usually kept three or four together in a cage , with a similar number , generally from the same litter , in a second cage as a control .
The cages are contrived so that the urine and fseces are separately collected , and are contaminated as little as possible with the food , which has consisted of bread and milk in a certain constant proportion made into the consistency of a thick paste .
This paste is placed within a cylindrical beaker .
Upon the top of the paste , but within the beaker , rests a heavy metal disk with a central hole large enough for the snout of a rat to pass through .
By this means the animals are permitted to feed at any time , the metal ring always falling as the food decreases , so that the rats cannot scatter the food over the cage as otherwise they are apt to do .
The amount of food consumed was determined ( in some of the experiments ) each day by weighing the beaker and its contents .
The urine was allowed to accumulate in a vessel containing abundance of thymol for a regular number of days\#151 ; usually four or seven\#151 ; and was then examined for amount , reaction , specific gravity , percentage of urea , and in some cases for phosphorus content .
The fseces were removed daily and reserved when it appeared necessary ; they showed no difference VOL. LXXXI.\#151 ; B. 2 L Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , obvious to the eye between those of the pituitary-fed and control animals .
The pituitary-fed rats received with their bread and milk a certain small but constant amount of the dried gland , either from the anterior or from the posterior lobe , the proportion of pituitary substance to the bread and milk food being extremely small .
The control animals were fed and kept in a completely similar fashion , except that in place of pituitary an equal amount of the dry powdered substance of some other gland\#151 ; usually testicle or ovary\#151 ; was added to the bread and milk .
The weight of the animals was regularly recorded .
Some of the details of one experiment performed in this manner may here be given .
A litter of eight rats was taken immediately after being weaned and divided into two groups ( A and B ) of four each ; the two groups being , as it happened , of exactly the same weight .
All were males with the exception of one of the rats of Group B. Both groups were at first put upon the bread and milk diet alone for four days ; it was found that during this period Group B tended to increase in weight slightly faster than Group A. To the diet of Group A was then added a small constant amount of the dry powdered material derived from the anterior lobe of ox pituitaries .
Group B , which were kept as controls , received in place of this an approximately equal amount of dried powdered material prepared from the testicle ; for which was , later , substituted a similar material prepared from ovaries.* At an advanced period of the experiment a small amount of powdered material derived from the posterior lobe of the pituitary was mixed with the powdered anterior lobe which was being given to Group A. The experiment was started on March 4 of this year and terminated on June 3 .
At the commencement of the experiment the average weight of each rat was 44'25 grammes in each group .
A week before the termination of the experiment ( i.e.on May 27 ) one rat of Group A and the female of Group B were killed .
At this time the average weight of each rat of Group A was 160 grammes ; of each rat of Group B , 131 grammes .
After eliminating the female , which weighed only 113'5 grammes , and one of the ( male ) rats of Group A , which weighed 170 grammes , the three remaining ( male ) animals belonging to Group A were found to average 165 grammes ; while the three remaining ( male ) animals belonging to Group B averaged 142 grammes .
At the termination of the experiment the remaining animals , which were all healthy , vigorous males , were killed and X-ray photographs were taken of them .
These have yet to be examined and measured .
* The amount of calcium in the substances given to the two groups was nearly the same : if anything the balance was against that given to Group A. Table showing Results of Pituitary Reeding in White Rats .
Two groups ( A and B ) , each containing four young rats , all of the same litter , were placed under similar conditions of diet , except that to the food of Group A a small constant proportion of dry powdered anterior lobe of ox pituitary was added , whilst Group B received a similar amount of testicular or ovarian substance .
The addition of these substances to the food was begun on March 8 .
Date .
A. B. Weight of animals .
Amount of urine collected .
Percentage of urea .
Sp. gr. Eeaction .
Weight of animals .
Amount of urine collected .
Percentage of urea .
Sp. gr. Reaction .
grammes .
c.c. grammes .
c.c. March 4 133 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 133 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 8 141 76 2-7 1030 acid 156 80 2-4 1030 acid 12 184 100 2-65 1033 acid 198 115 2*5 1030 acid 16 227 82 3 -2 1040 alt .
227 82 3 2 1040 alk .
20 269 125 2-8 1033 neutral 255 128 2-75 1035 neutral 24 284 134 2 71 1033 alk .
269 127 2-83 1034 alk .
28 325 95 3 66 1043 alk .
312 103 3-83 1040 alk .
April 1 346 220 2T6 1026 alk .
318 196 2-37 1027 alk .
4 369 \#151 ; \#151 ; 325 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 8 383 330 2-66 1027 alk .
354 340 2T6 1025 alk .
15 439 272 3-5 1033 alk .
411 280 3 3 1033 alk .
22 454 280 3 3 1036 alk .
397 225 2-66 1036 alk .
29 496 208 425 210 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; May 6 539 210 2T6 1033 alk .
439 190 2-08 1037 alk .
13 510 210 1 -91 1030 alk .
425 160 2 -00 1035 alk .
20 567 338 2-5 1032 alk .
482 293 2T6 1034 alk .
27 638 353 2-83 1033 alk .
524 225 2 95 1035 alk .
Up to April 1 the urine was collected every four days , after this every seven days .
On May 27 one rat of each group was hilled .
The experiment was continued to June 3 with three rats only in each group .
This part is omitted from the table .
1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
455 Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , The experiment is here set out in tabular form and some of the results are given in the form of charts ( figs. 2 and 3 ) .
In the table the total weight of the animals in each group , the total amount of urine collected in the given time , its reaction and specific gravity , and the percentage of urea are shown .
The chart ( fig. 2 ) shows the relative rate of increment of weight of Groups A and B , the dates being marked upon the abscissa at proportionate \lt ; 0 \lt ; u E \#163 ; 350 A y 7 Y X X / Y [ x T A s X h r X A / / \#163 ; f A M Y B A 0 r 'a May March April Fig. 2.\#151 ; Chart showing Rate of Growth of two groups of Rats from same litter .
Group A with addition of anterior lobe of pituitary to food ; Group B , controls .
The addition was commenced on March 8 .
intervals , whilst the weights in grammes are given as ordinates .
The drop in weight from May 6 .
to May 13 was due to the fact that the feeding of the animals during part of that time was restricted to only two hours a day .
This chart shows that whereas before the pituitary feeding began there was a tendency for the rats belonging to Group A to increase in weight less rapidly than those of Group B , after eight days of the addition of pituitary to the food of A these show a steady increase on Group B , the increase being continued up to the end of the experiment .
The chart ( fig. 3 ) shows the relative amount of urine per diem in the two groups , calculated per kilogramme weight of animal .
The ordinates 1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary .
represent cubic centimetres : the dates as before are marked proportionately on the abscissa .
The correspondence between the two curves is almost complete : the fluctuations , which are considerable , and are probably caused by varying meteorological conditions\#151 ; especially , perhaps , temperature\#151 ; synchronise in a singular manner : * only towards the end of the experiment and after the animals of Group A had received a certain small proportion of posterior lobe , intermingled with the dried anterior lobe powder which they had previously been taking , is there any distinct difference in the relative amount of urine per gramme weight of animal , and even this does not show itself immediately .
The fluctuations in the urea excretion correspond on the whole with those of the amount of urine , but there was less urea excreted in the pituitary-fed animals than in the controls .
This experiment is given to show the manner in which we are endeavouring to approach the problem as to the effects of pituitary feeding upon growth rather than with the intention of drawing positive conclusions from it .
We must await the result of other experiments still in progress * The necessity of working with a duplicate set of control animals is well illustrated by the curves in this experiment .
Without such control the very considerable fluctuations , which are probably due to meteorological conditions , might easily be misinterpreted as effects contingent on the experiment .
Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , and projected before attempting to decide whether pituitary feeding has the distinct influence upon growth which might be inferred from this experiment .
Here the observations of Cerletti ( 1907 ) and of Sandri ( 1907 ) may be briefly referred to .
Cerletti injected young animals ( intraperitoneally ) .
As the result he found that the bones of the animals receiving the pituitary emulsion were after some time , as compared with controls , somewhat shorter as regards the diaphyses but larger as regards the epiphyses .
If Cerletti 's results are to be accepted , they appear to indicate if anything a retardation in growth of the bones , at any rate in the direction of length .
Sandri fed young mice with pituitary\#151 ; apparently with the pure crude gland to the exclusion of other food .
He states that this caused an arrest of growth , but there seem to have been no controls made with food of a similar percentage composition .
Sandri also injected young guinea-pigs with an emulsion of the gland , and found that in these also growth was diminished .
Our experiments have certainly not shown any arrest of growth as the result of pituitary feeding .
Grafting Experiments .
Another method by which we are endeavouring to investigate the effects of pituitary secretion upon growth is that of implanting pituitaries of other individuals of the same species in various parts of the body , such as the brain , the subcutaneous tissue , the muscular tissue , the peritoneal cavity , and the kidneys .
But so far these experiments have failed to throw any clear light on the question by reason of the fact that we have not in any case obtained a permanent graft of the implanted organ .
The chief result which has been noted is a temporary increase in the amount of urine secreted , a result due either to absorption of the diuretic substance which the transplanted pituitary contained , or , perhaps , to a temporary functioning of the implanted organ preceding its degeneration .
All the animals in which this attempt to implant the pituitary has been made\#151 ; including dogs , cats , monkeys , and rats\#151 ; have remained healthy and have been killed after a certain lapse of time .
In no case have we been able on post-mortem examination to substantiate the presence of the characteristic epithelial structure of the pituitary at the site of implantation .
In one experiment , which is still in progress and a chart of which is appended ( fig. 4 ) , the animals ( rats ) with pituitary grafts grew at first at exactly the same rate as the controls of the same litter and sex .
But after three weeks the controls for some unexplained reason lost weight for a few days , and have hardly as yet managed to catch the others up .
The chart of urine-secretion ( fig. 5 ) follows almost exactly the same course in the two groups : the effect of the implantation in these animals was therefore to all appearance nil .
1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
April May Fig. 4.\#151 ; Chart showing Rate of Growth of two groups of Rats , A2 and B2 , of the same litter , A2 with attempted pituitary implantations ; B2 controls .
The implantations were made on May 4 .
lay June Fig. 5.\#151 ; Chart of Urine Secretion of the Groups A2 and B2 .
Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , Posterior Lobe .
The experiments hitherto mentioned have been concerned mainly with an attempt to elucidate the functions of the anterior lobe of the pituitary ; those that we have next to consider had mainly in view the diuretic properties of the secretion of the gland , which former investigations have shown to be most probably connected with the posterior lobe , at least with the pars intermedia .
The experiments on this subject may be referred to under three heads , viz. , feeding , grafting , and stimulation by injury .
Feeding Experiments .
There seems to be little doubt that the exhibition by the mouth of an active water-extract of the posterior lobe may greatly increase the amount of urine secreted .
We have frequently , although not invariably , obtained such increase in animals ; where it has failed to occur\#151 ; as , indeed , may happen also with intravenous injection\#151 ; the failure is probably due to some special condition in the individual which renders him irresponsive to the excess of pituitary substance which is passing into the blood .
What this condition may be we need not stop to inquire , but it is noteworthy that the activity of the gland in promoting diuresis often appears greatest in cases in which the amount of urine which was previously being passed is less than usual .
In connection with this part of the investigation , Mr. Harold Stiles was good enough to allow an active extract of the posterior lobe of the ox pituitary to be tested upon two children under his care , both convalescent after operations and otherwise in good health ; these may be given as instances of the effect of the extract .
In the first of these cases , a boy , aged 10 years , during a period prior to the exhibition of the extract , was secreting an average of 28 fl. oz. of urine per diem , while during and immediately after the period that the extract was being administered the average secretion was 38 fl. oz. In the second case , that of a girl , aged 9| years , the average amount of urine in the period prior to the administration was unusually low , viz. , only 9 fl. oz. per diem , whereas during and immediately after the period of administration it rose to an average of 29 fl. oz. , and was one day as much as 35 fl. oz. Instances of marked increase of urine-secretion as the result of the clinical administration of pituitary extract exist in the literature of the gland .
Marinesco ( 1895 ) gives the results of the treatment of three cases of acromegaly with tablets of pituitary .
In the first the average amount of 1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
urine was increased from about 1 litre to 1| to 2 litres per diem ; in the second from 1100 to 1300 c.c. ; and in the third case , which was already diabetic , the increase was from 16 to 21 litres .
J. Azam ( 1908 ) observed a marked diuresis as one of the effects of administration of 0'3 to 0'4 gramme ox pituitary in cases of infectious fevers .
The accompanying chart ( fig. 6 ) of a feeding experiment upon rats may also be here given in illustration of the diuretic effect of pituitary feeding .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Chart of Urine Secretion of two full-grown Male Rats , A4 and B4 , fed on bread and milk , to which in the case of A4 a small addition of dry sheep 's pituitary was made on and after June 1 , while B4 was given as a control a similar addition of dry testicular substance .
The chart shows the amount of urine in cubic centimetres per kilogramme and per diem secreted prior to and during the administration ( along with the ordinary bread and milk food ) of a small amount of sheep 's pituitary .
In this case the whole gland was used , a little of the dry powder , which had been kept for several years , being added to the food .
Two large male rats were chosen of about the same weight ( 250 grammes ) , one for use as a control .
To the food of this one an equal amount of dry testicular substance was added during the time that the other one was receiving pituitary substance .
A preliminary observation was first made , extending over rather more than two weeks , no addition being made to the ordinary food .
As a result of this it was found that one of the two rats secreted rather less urine per kilogramme body-weight than the other .
This one ( A4 ) was selected for the pituitary addition , and the other ( B4 ) for the control .
During the first week of pituitary feeding the curve of the urine secretion of A4 is approaching that of B4 ; during the second week it crosses it , and in the subsequent weeks it maintains a higher position , so that in place of secreting about 25 per cent , less urine than B4 , as was the case before the feeding with pituitary Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , began , it now secretes about 25 per cent. more .
The same fact is illustrated towards the termination of the experiment which is illustrated by the chart given in fig. 2 .
Grafting Experiments .
The effects upon the secretion of urine of grafting pituitary have already been referred to in connection with growth , but it may be of interest to record some of the results on urine-secretion which have been yielded in our attempts to effect the implantation .
A cat , which was passing , prior to the operation , 207 c.c. of urine per diem ( average of 15 days ) , was found to pass during the 15 days succeeding the implantation of the pituitary of another cat into its peritoneal cavity an average of 276 c.c. , the greatest increase being during the first week after the operation .
In another cat the average amounts were 180 c.c. ( before ) and 233 c.c. ( after ) .
In a monkey the amounts recorded were 202 c.c. and 255 c.c. respectively\#151 ; for a daily average during 16 days before and after the implantation .
Of two rabbits operated upon in this way , the effect produced in one was hardly noticeable , but in the other the amount of urine rose 1-70 \#163 ; 0 ) 140 X ) |_I30 " O S 120 kb 7 ?
IIO Q.IOO o c 90 \lt ; o .g 80 70 60 ~ _ 5 ' Dates 5 9 15 ^7 21 25 29 i 3 March April Fig. 7.\#151 ; Chart of Urine Secretion of two groups of full-grown Rats ( three in each group ) : Group A1 with pituitary implantation into muscles of back ; Group B , controls .
The implantations were made on March 9 .
1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
from an average of 50 c.e. before the implantation to an average of over 100 c.c. , and on one day to 150 c.c. during the week following .
The result was in all these cases temporary , and the effect of implantation upon the urine gradually disappeared , no doubt coincidently with the destruction and absorption of the implanted tissue , which , as I have already mentioned , we failed to find on post-mortem examination .
Similar results have been obtained with rats .
Thus in one experiment a graft of pituitary was made into the muscles of the back in three full-grown rats , three others of similar dimensions being employed as a control .
The amount of urine passed before the operation was rather more in the control animals than in those selected for the implantation .
After the grafting the amount of urine per gramme weight of animal showed a decided increase , and this increase persisted for some weeks .
This is shown in the accompanying chart ( fig. 7 ) , in which the curve A1 shows the amount of urine in cubic centimetres per kilogramme weight of the pituitary-grafted animals , and curve B1 the amount in the controls .
The urine was collected at first every four days , subsequently with a seven days ' interval .
Stimulation of Pituitary by Injury .
With the view of determining what effect injury to the pituitary might have upon the performance of its functions , we have in some animals exposed the gland by the method of Paulesco and subjected it either to mechanical injury or to partial destruction by means of a feeble thermo-cautery .
Before the operation the animals were all approximately in nutritive equilibrium .
The results are striking , and may be illustrated by giving the main results of three experiments , all on dogs .
( a ) A dog weighing 5'5 kilogrammes and taking each day 180 grammes of dog biscuit was passing , immediately before the operation , from 30 to 40 c.c. of urine per diem .
The pituitary was subjected to partial injury by means of a warm , but by no means hot , electro-cautery ; the animal recovered without a bad symptom , except that during one or two days it was thought to turn towards the operated side in wralking .
The day after the operation 40 c.c. of urine was collected ; the next day 180 c.c. ; the next 230 c.c. ; the next 102 c.c. , the amount gradually coming down , although an average amount of 114 c.c. was maintained during the whole period of 19 days that the animal was kept alive , whereas the average of the 19 days prior to the operation was 54 c.c. It may be noted that , contrary to what occurred in the other cases , the amount of water consumed was in this case greater during the after period than during the period prior to the operation .
Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , ( b ) A dog weighing 9'5 kilogrammes was passing , during 11 days prior to the operation ( which was similar to the last ) , 110 c.c. urine per diem .
During the 11 succeeding days the average was 182 c.c. , and the increase was maintained until the animal was killed 10 days subsequently .
The greatest amounts passed were on the third , fourth , and fifth days after the operation , the amounts on these days averaging 266 c.c. The average daily amount of water taken for the 11 days before operation was 400 c.c. , for the 11 days after operation 310 c.c. ( c ) A dog weighing about 6 kilogrammes had its pituitary exposed by the method of Paulesco and Cushing , and with a blunt instrument the gland was mechanically injured and partially broken .
During the four days preceding the operation the average daily amount of urine secreted was 119 c.c. During the four days subsequent to the operation the average amount was 192 c.c. After the fourth day in this case the average fell to a normal amount .
The average daily amount of water taken during the four-day periods was 322 c.c. before and 235 c.c. after the operation .
( d ) Another dog weighing about 9 kilogrammes was subjected to exactly the same operative procedure , the brain being exposed from the side and raised so as to bring the pituitary body freely into view .
But the gland was not touched nor intentionally injured in this case .
The wound was closed in the same manner as in the dogs in which the pituitary had been mechanically injured .
The polyuria which was displayed in the other three cases was only exhibited on the second and to a less extent on the third day in this dog , and this is probably to be accounted for by the fact that the animal refused its ordinary diet of dog biscuit and water on the day following the operation and was given milk instead : of this it consumed 450 c.c. , whereas the amount of water which it was in the habit of taking with the biscuit rarely exceeded 200 c.c. The microscopical examination of the pituitary in the first two dogs ( a and b ) reveals no serious injury , but in both blood is extravasated into the central cavity , and there is marked increase of the colloid secretion of the pars intermedia\#151 ; which previous experiments have shown to be probably associated with the diuretic function of this gland .
The pituitary of the third dog has yet to be examined , but there is no doubt about its having been injured .
The bearing of these results upon the polyuria which occurs in injuries and tumours affecting the base of the brain is of considerable clinical interest .
Such cases are well known to surgeons and physicians , and are frequently recorded .
The polyuria and glycosuria have generally been set down to injury of a hypothetical centre at the base of the brain .
Even 1909 .
] The Functions oj the Pituitary Body .
465 when associated , as these symptoms often are in acromegaly , with tumours of the pituitary , they have not been usually ascribed to an increased activity of that gland.* Indeed , in many cases of acromegaly , polyuria does not occur .
Doubtless this is due to the hypertrophy and increased activity being confined to the anterior lobe , which is the part usually involved in this disease .
Often it does not occur until the disease is more advanced , and may then be due either to the hypertrophy involving the pars intermedia or to this part being stimulated mechanically by the adjacent growth .
Conclusions .
1 .
The pituitary body consists of three parts : ( 1 ) the pars anterior , formed of vascular glandular epithelium ; ( 2 ) the pars intermedia , formed of a less vascular epithelium secreting " colloid " ; ( 3 ) the pars nervosa , consisting mainly of neuroglia , but invaded by the colloid of the pars intermedia , which passes through it into the infundibulum of the third ventricle .
These parts differ from one another in function .
2 .
The function of the pars anterior is probably related to growth of the skeletal tissues , including cartilage , bone , and connective tissue in general .
The chief evidence in favour of this is derived from the fact that hypertrophy of the pars anterior is associated with overgrowth of the skeleton and of the connective tissue in growing individuals , and of the connective tissues especially in individuals in whom growth has ceased .
These effects are probably produced by hormones .
3 .
The function of the pars intermedia is to produce a " colloid " material which contains active principles or hormones acting upon the heart , bloodvessels , and kidneys .
Probably there are several such hormones acting upon blood-vessels and kidneys independently , and also acting antagonistically ; so that according to circumstances either a rise or fall of blood-pressure , an increased or diminished secretion of urine , may be produced , and the effects on the kidney may be independent of those on the blood-vessels .
The hormones which appear to be most active are those which produce contraction of the blood-vessels in general , with dilatation of the renal vessels and * Rosenbaupt ( 1903 ) , who describes a tumour of the pituitary associated with polyuria , states that he is " loth to assume that this is due to the pituitary tumour , since there are no physiological grounds to support such a view .
" And Steinberg ( 1897 ) remarks that in the " die alte Casuistik " it was not uncommon to associate pituitary tumours with polyuria and glycosuria , but that it is more probable that the latter symptoms are due to an overlooked condition of acromegaly .
More recently , Borchardt ( 1908 ) has suggested that the glycosuria which is so often recorded in acromegaly may be associated with the hypertrophy of the pituitary , but does not especially connect it with the pars intermedia .
Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ July 22 , increased activity of renal cells , but there appear to be others which cause constriction of renal vessels and diminished activity of renal cells ; the effects of these latter are generally less lasting .
There is also usually an inhibitory effect produced on the heart .
4 .
Extirpation of the pituitary body is incompatible with survival during more than two or three days .
Injury of the organ when not extensive causes no pronounced symptoms other than increased secretion of urine , which is accompanied by increased production of colloid by the pars intermedia .
Complete removal of a pituitary tumour in man should not be attempted , since entire removal of the gland would in all probability be speedily fatal .
5 .
Acromegaly and gigantism appear to be due to an increase of function of the anterior lobe alone .
It is this lobe which is always in the first instance hypertrophied in those affections .
If the posterior lobe is involved polyuria is likely to result .
The fatal termination which ultimately occurs in acromegaly\#151 ; but which may be long deferred\#151 ; is probably associated with a change in the nature of the tumour , which from being a mere glandular hyperplasia becomes of a sarcomatous nature , while the normal tissue becomes destroyed .
6 .
The addition of a small but regular amount of pituitary substance to the food produces an increase in the amount of urine secreted .
This effect is obtained from the pars intermedia and posterior lobe , not from the anterior .
Implantation of the pituitary of another individual of the same species may produce a similar effect on the urine , causing an increase of secretion which may last a short time but soon disappears .
7 .
The addition of a small amount of pituitary substance to the food appears to favour the growth of young animals : it does not impede or restrict their growth .
The attempts at implantation of pituitary in young animals have not in these experiments been followed by any deterioration in growth as compared with controls ; if anything , there are signs of improved nutrition .
But we have not succeeded in establishing permanent grafts , and any result which might be looked for could only be of a temporary character .
LITERATURE .
A very full bibliography of the subject of the pituitary body and of acromegaly in relation to it is given by Masay in his thesis ( see below ) , published in 1908 .
The following papers are more particularly referred to in the preceding pages\#151 ; some of these are subsequent to Masay 's thesis :\#151 ; Azam , J. Thtlse , Paris , 1908 .
Ballet and Laignal-Lavestine .
'Nouv .
icon .
d. 1 .
Salp6triere , !
1905 .
( Case of aeio-megaly associated with enlargement of anterior lobe only .
) 1909 .
] The Functions of the Pituitary Body .
Borchardt .
' Zeitschr .
f. klin .
Med. , ' vol. 66 , 1908 .
( Glycosuria iu acromegaly is associated with , and is due to , the hypertrophy of the pituitary .
) Boyce and Beadles .
' Journ. of Pathology , ' 1892\#151 ; 1893 .
Cagnetto .
' Virch .
Archiv , ' vol. 176,1904 .
( Two cases of pituitary tumour , one without , the other with , acromegaly : the former a destructive sarcoma .
) Also ' Arch , p. 1 .
sci .
med .
, ' 1907 .
Cerletti .
' R. Accad .
d. Lincei , ' 1906 and 1908 ; also in ' Arch. ital .
de biol .
, ' vol. 47 , 1907 .
Cunningham , D. J. 'Journ .
Anat .
and PJiysiol .
, ' vol. 13 , 1879 ; 'Trans .
Roy .
Irish Academy , ' vol. 29 , 1891 .
Cyon .
' Pflixger 's Arch. , ' vols .
71\#151 ; 87 , 1898-1901 .
Also ' Count .
rend .
, ' 1907 .
Fichera .
'Lo Sperimentale , ' 1906 .
( Destruction of Pituitary in Fowls .
) Friedmann and Maas .
' Berliner klin .
Wochenschr .
, ' 1900 .
Geddes , A. Campbell .
Thesis for M.D. Degree , University of Edinburgh , 1908 ( as yet unpublished ) .
Gemelli .
' Arch. p. 1 .
sci .
med .
, ' vol. 30 , 1906 ; ' Arch. ital .
de biol .
, ' vol. 50 , 1908 ; ' Folia Neurologica , ' 1908 .
Guerrini .
' Riv .
di patol .
nerv .
, ' vol. 9 , 1904 ; ' Arch. d. Fisiol .
, ' 1905 .
Herring , P. T. 'Quarterly Journal of Exper .
Physiology , ' 1908 ( several papers ) .
Howell .
'Journ .
Exper .
Med. , ' vol. 3 , 1898 .
Launis and Roy .
' C. r. soc .
biol .
, ' 1903 .
( Diabetes in tumour of pituitary associated with acromegaly .
) Livon .
' C. r. soc .
biol .
, ' 1898 ; ' Journ. de Physiologie , ' 1909 .
Lo Monacho and Yan Rynberg .
' R. d. r. Acc .
d. Lincei , ' 1901 .
Magnus and Schafer .
' Proc. Physiol. Soc. , Journ. Physiol. , ' 1901 .
Malcolm , J. ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 30 , 1904 .
( Effect of pituitary feeding on output of N , P , Ca , and Mg .
) Marie , P. ' Revue de med .
, ' 1885\#151 ; 86 ; see also ' Brain , ' 1889 .
Marie and Marinesco .
' Arch. d. med .
exper .
, ' 1891 .
Marinesco .
' C. r. soc .
biol .
, ' 1892 and 1895 ; * Bull .
d. 1 .
soc .
med .
d. hdpitaux de Paris , ' 1895 .
Masay , F. ' Ann. d. 1 .
soc .
roy .
des sciences med .
et not .
de Bruxelles , ' 1903 ; " L'hypo-physe , " These , Bruxelles , 1908 .
Narbutt .
" Die Hypophysis Cerebri , etc. , " Diss .
St. Petersburg , 1903 .
( Abstr .
in ' Physiologiste Russe , ' vol. 5 , 1907 .
) Oliver and Schafer .
'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , 1895 .
Osborne and Vincent .
'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 25 , 1899 .
Pal , J. ' Wiener med .
Wochenschr .
, ' 1909 .
Paulesco .
'Journ .
de Physiol. , ' vol. 9 , 1907 ; and " L'hypophyse du eerveau , " 1907 .
Pirrone .
' Riv .
med .
, ' 1903 .
( Abstr .
in ' Review of Neurol .
, ' I. ) Redslob .
' Klin .
Monatschr .
f. Augenli .
, ' 1905 .
( Case of fracture of base of skull with diabetes insipidus .
) Reford and Harvey Cushing .
'Johns Hopkins Bulletin , ' vol. 20 , 1909 .
Rogowitsch .
' Ziegler 's Beitrage , ' vol. 4 , 1889 .
Rosenhaupt .
' Berliner klin .
Wochenschr .
, ' 1903 .
Salvioli and Carraro .
' Arch. p. 1 .
sci .
rned .
, ' vol. 31 , 1907 .
( Action of extracts injected intravenously .
) Sandri .
'Riv .
d. patol .
nerv .
e meant .
, ' vol. 12 , 1907 .
Schafer and Herring .
'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , 1906 .
Schafer and Vincent .
'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 25 , 1899 .
Souza-Leite .
" De l'Acrom6galie , " These , Paris , 1890 .
( Translated for the New Sydenham Society by P. S. Hutchinson , 1891 .
) Mr. J. H. Orton .
Occurrence of Protandric [ June 8 , Sternberg .
" Die Akromegalie , " 1897 .
( New Sydenham Society 's Translation , 1899 .
) Tamburini .
'Centralbl .
f. Nervenh .
, ' 1894 .
Yassale and Sacclii .
' Eiv .
sper .
d. fren .
, ' 1892 .
Widal , Roy , and Froin .
'Rev .
de med .
, ' 1906 .
( Case of Acromegaly without enlargement of pituitary , but with great increase of cyanophil cells and cysts .
) Woods-Hutchinson .
'Trans .
Pan-American Medical Congress , ' 1894 ; 'New York Medical Journal , ' vol. 67 , 1898 , and vol. 72 , 1900 .
On the Occurrence of Protandric Hermaphroditism in the Mollusc Crepidula fornicata .
By J. H. Orton , A.R.C.S. , Marshall Scholar in the Royal College of Science , London ( Imperial College of Science and Technology ) .
( Communicated by Prof. Arthur Dendy , F.R.S. Received June 8 , \#151 ; Read June 24 , 1909 .
) Introduction .
Crepidula fornicata is a streptoneurous Gastropod belonging to the Calyptraeidse , a family of the Tamioglossa .
It was first introduced into England from America about 1880 ( 1 ) , when it was imported with American oysters .
In America it is found on the east coast from Labrador to Florida , but in England so far as is known , it is confined to the Essex and Lincolnshire coasts , occurring , however , in abundance in shallow water in the neighbourhood of the mouths of the Crouch and Blackwater rivers .
The conditions on the Essex coast seem to be highly favourable for its growth and propagation ; indeed , so favourable , that within five or six years it has over-run the oyster beds at West Mersea .
By attaching themselves very strongly to oyster-shells they cause the oyster fishermen much trouble , and it may be remarked , by competing for food and oxygen with the oysters may become a cause of much more serious trouble in the future .
To obtain food the animals raise the anterior part of their shell , and extending the head to the front edge of the shell , move it slowly from side to side : at times the whole shell may be similarly turned slowly round to the one side or the other .
Crepidula fornicata is sedentary for the greater part of its life .
It forms " chains , " as Prof. Conklin calls them , by the curious habit the individuals have of fixing themselves in linear series one on the top of another as in fig. 1 .
Chains of as many as 12 individuals have been found .
Viewed as a

