" Quelques Recherches surl'ArcVoltaique ; et sir l'influence qu'exerce le Magnetisme , soit sir cet Arc , soit sir les Corps qui transmettent les Courants Electriques Discontinus .
" By M. Auguste De la Rive , Foreign Member of the Royal Society , Professor in the Academy of Geneva , Corresponding Member of the Academy of Sciences of Paris , &amp;c. In the first section of this memoir the author gives a detailed description of the phenomena exhibited by the luminous voltaic arc produced either in a vacuum or in atmospheric air , or in hydrogen gas , by employing electrodes of different kinds of conducting substances , in the form either of points or of plates .
I-e examines minutely the transfer of particles which takes place from one pole to the other under these various circumstances , and the differences which occur when the currents are reversed .
He observed that when a positive metallic point is presented to a negative plate , particles of the former are transported by the voltaic are , and deposited on the latter , forming a ring of a regular form , having as its centre the projection of the point on the plate .
This happens in atmospheric air whether highly rarefied or of the ordinary density , but not in hydrogen gas .
This deposit consists always of oxidized particles of the positive metal which forms the pointed electrode .
In the case of platinum , the circular spot is of a blue colour , and presents the appearance of the coloured rings of Nobili .
This effect the author is disposed to ascribe to the action of the oxygen brought by the voltaic current into that particular condition which Schcenbein first described under the name of Ozone .
While this deposit is taking place , a vivid blue light is emitted .
In the second section the author investigates the action exerted by a powerful electro-magnet on the voltaic are .
He describes the remarkable miodifications which the length , the form , and even the nature of the arc undergoes when the electro-magnet is brought extremely near to it , and the magnetization of the electrodes themselves , when they are susceptible of that affection by their approximation to the electro-magnet .
He notices the singular phenomenon of a peculiar sound emitted by the luminous arc , when subjected to this magnetic influence ; a sound which varies both in its nature and its intensity according to the nature , the form and the temperature of the electrodes , consisting sometimes of a shrill whistle , and at , other times of a series of slight detonations .
The third section is devoted to the investigation of a remarkable phenomenon presented by all the conducting bodies while transmitting discontinuous electric currents , under the influence of a powerful electro-magnet ; namely , the emission of a sound resembling that of the revolving toothed-wheel in Savart 's experiments .
This sound is distinctly heard , and is peculiarly loud with prismatic bars of lead , bismuth , tin , &amp;c. , about three-quarters of an inch square and a foot and a half long , whether placed in the direction of a line joining the poles of an electro-magnet , or in a direction at right angles to such line : it was weakened only by increasing the distance between the poles and the bar .
The intensity of the sound appeared to depend much less on the nature of the substance which was subjected to this action , than on its form , its volume , and its mass .
All conducting bodies , whatever may be their nature , or state of aggregation , are capable of yielding these sounds .
They are produced by charcoal of all kinds and shape .
Mercury contained in a cylindrical glass tube , of similar dimensions with the metallic bars , emits a sound of great intensity ; and a still louder sound arises from a wire coiled as a helix around a cylinder of wood , and also by tubes formed of different metals .
Similar phenomena are also observable by the action of a helical coil substituted for the electro-magnet .
On the whole , the author arrives at the conclusion that the phenomena noticed in this paper are altogether molecular , and that they establish the following principles : first , that the passage of the electric current modifies , even in solid bodies , the arrangement of the particles ; and secondly , that the action of magnetism , in like manner , produces an analogous modification in the molecular constitution of all bodies .
This has already been demonstrated by Faraday in the case of transparent bodies , in its effects on polarized light ; and is now extended by M. De la Rive to opaque conducting bodies , by employing , instead of polarized light , a discontinuous electric current .

