1889 .
] On a pure Fermentation of Mannite and Glycerin .
345 food is at its maximum .
Thus digestion neutralises in a great measure the effects on respiration of any local change of pressure .
Two persons , both aged twenty-three , were found in the experiments related in this paper to require respectively a mean of 9-29 and 10-51 litres of air , reduced , to expire 1 gram carbonic acid .
Experiments on another person , aged sixty , gave a mean of 11-30 litres of air ; and with a number of others the proportion of air breathed for a given weight of carbonic acid expired also varied , showing that different individuals breathe different volumes of air to supply their body with the necessary amount of oxygen to make and expire a given weight of carbonic acid .
It cannot be doubted that the less the volume of , air inspired to burn a certain weight of carbon , the more readily the oxygen taken into the lungs finds its way into the blood , and , therefore , the more perfect the respiratory function .
This may have important bearings in medical respects .
The age of sixty years apparently necessitated breathing a comparatively large proportion of air ( 11*30 litres ) to supply the blood with the oxygen it required .
One of the two young men was physically stronger and possessed of a greater muscular development than the other , he breathed 9*29 litres against 10*51 for the other , or took 11*6 per cent , less air into his lungs to yield the necessary oxygen to burn the same weight of carbon within a given time .
The corresponding difference between the person aged sixty , and the strongest of the two young men amounted to no less than 17'8 per cent. X. " On a Pure Fermentation of Mannite and Glycerin .
" By Percy F. Frankland , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , Assoc. Boy .
Sch .
of Mines , Professor of Chemistry in University College , Dundee , and Joseph J. Fox .
Communicated by Professor T. E. Thorpe , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1889 .
Although the fermentative action of micro-organisms has from time to time attracted the attention of numerous investigators , both chemical and biological , still in by far the majority of cases there has been absolutely no guarantee that the chemical changes observed were the result of the activity of a pure growth of one organism and not of a more or less complex mixture of organisms .
Indeed , it is only within recent years that the most familiar of all fermentations\#151 ; the alcoholic\#151 ; has been induced with growths of yeast definitely ascertained to be of absolute purity .
Thus whilst Pasteur and others had many years previously studied the fermentation of sugar induced by yeast , free from bacteria and other micro-organisms , it is to Hansen that we owe the systematic investigation of the fermentations caused by distinct kinds of yeast in a state of unquestionable purity .
346 Dr. P. F. Frankland and Mr. J. J. Fox .
[ June 20 , The greatly improved methods of isolating and studying microorganisms , which we now have at our command , necessitate that all experiments on the chemical changes induced by micro-organisms , should in future be carried out with cultivations of guaranteed purity , as only under such conditions can the reactions he referred to the agency of particular organisms .
It is , moreover , essential that the micro-organisms themselves should he so fully described and characterised as to render possible their identification by other investigators , a point which has been but little attended to in the past .
Thus the value of the classical work of the late Albert Fitz on schizomycetic fermentations is not a little diminished by the doubt which attaches to the , purity of his cultivation , and to the inadequate description of the micro-organisms he had undei observation .
On the other hand , of course , these objections in no way detract from the importance of Fitz 's work in demonstrating that particular chemical changes can be effected by the agency of bacterial life .
The present paper deals with some of the chemical changes produced by a micro-organism which was obtained in a state of perfect purity by one of us from sheep-dung , which was found to have the power of setting up fermentation in suitable solutions of several carbohydrates and polyhydric alcohols .
Isolation and Morphological Characters of the Organism ( by Grace C. Frankland and Percy F. Frankland ) .
A minute quantity of sheep-dung was introduced into test-tubes containing a sterile solution of glucose ( 8 per cent. ) and the necessaiy mineral ingredients , together with a small quantity of peptone .
On placing these tubes in the incubator at 39 ' C. they were iound to be in a state of fermentation on the following day .
A minute^ quantity of this fermenting liquid was transferred by means of a sterile platinum needle into other tubes containing sterile glucose-solution , and in these a similar fermentation was established .
A number of further generations were produced by successive transferences in the same way , , with the result that in each case a vigorous fermentation was set up .
Some of the fermenting liquid from one of these tubes was then submitted to plate-cultivation with gelatine-peptone in the ordinary way .
On the appearance'of centres of growth on these plates , inoculations were made from a number of the colonies into tubes containing glucose-solution .
On subsequently incubating these tubes some entered into vigorous fermentation , and from one of these a number of inoculations were made into tubes containing glucose , raannite , glycerin , and other solutions to which reference will be made later .
' The inoculated glucose , mannite , and glycerin tubes all entered into fermentation on being placed in the incubator .
1889 .
] On a pure Fermentation o and Glycerin .
347 Plates were again poured from a number of these fermenting solutions of various ages , the resulting colonies were carefully examined and again inoculated into the fermentable liquids , and it was only when the purity and uniform character of the organism had thus been fully established that the larger quantities of fermentable material to be chemically examined afterwai'ds were finally inoculated as described below .
Microscopic Appearances.\#151 ; Under high powers ( X 1000 X 1500 ) the organism is seen to be a bacillns with rounded ends , occurring chiefly in pairs , the individual bacilli vary in length from 1'5 to 51 p , and in breadth from 0-8 p to 1*0 p. Their appearance , however , as is so frequently the case , varies considerably , according to the medium from which they are taken .
Thus in the fermenting liquids they were often found to form long threads , whilst in gelatine and other solid media they were usually found in pairs only .
The accompanying figures , ISTos .
1 and 2 , illustrate the differences in the appearance of the bacilli when taken from gelatine and mannite-solution respectively .
That this difference in appearance was not accidenlal but a constant character of the organism was demonstrated by inoculating gelatine-tubes from single colonies of the organism ; on microscopically examining the growths in these tubes , the characteristic short bacilli were found , but no threads ; on inoculating , however , a series of glucose-tubes from these gelatine cultivations , the long threads were invariably found .
Viewed in drop-cultivations , the bacilli were seen to be extremely motile .
Appearance in Gelatine-Tubes.\#151 ; The growth is but little characteristic ; in the depth the needle-track assumes a beaded appearance , whilst the smooth surface-growth causes more or less rapid liquefaction of the gelatine , according to the temperature and according to the vitality of the organism ; thus at low temperatures or when the organism has been inoculated from an old and exhausted previous growth , the liquefaction is very slow .
Appearance in Agar-Agar.\#151 ; The organism forms an extremely thin and almost invisible growth over the surface , which becomes hardly more conspicuous even when incubated for some time .
Fig- .
1 .
Fig. 2 .
348 Dr. P. F. Fraiildand and Mr , J. J. Fox .
[ June 20 , Appearance on Potatoes.\#151 ; Forms a dirty-white , shining growth which extends over almost the whole surface of the potato .
Appearance in Gelatine-Plate Cultivations.\#151 ; To the naked eye the colonies are very insignificant , appearing as small white dots ; later on when liquefaction commences , clear liquid circles form round the small centres , the circles gradually increase in diameter until the whole plate may become involved .
Under a low power ( X 100 ) the depth-colonies in which neither softening nor liquefaction of the gelatine has commenced , are seen to be smooth-rimmed disks with finely granular contents ( see fig. 3 ) , whilst those around which liquefaction has taken place exhibit a dark central mass surrounded by very finely granular matter , the periphery having a delicate hair-like appearance ( see fig. 4 ) .
The same differences in the rate of liquefaction are observable as in the case of the gelatine-tube cultivations referred to above .
Jn none of the cultivations were any spores discoverable .
Fig. 3 , Fig. 4 .
Fermentation of Mannitol .
The fermentations were carried out in flasks of about 2^ litres capacity ; the mannitol was employed in a 3 per cent , solution , 2000 c.c. of solution being placed in each flask .
The solution was prepared as follows :\#151 ; 60 grams of pure mannitol , 2 grams of dry peptone , and 30 grams of precipitated calcium carbonate were placed in the large flask ; 200 c.c. of a salt solution* containing the necessary mineral ingredients for the growth of micro-organisms , were diluted to 2000 c.c. with distilled water and then added to the flask containing the mannitol , \amp ; c. The flask was then furnished with a plug of sterile cotton-wool , and the whole steam-sterilised for upwards of one hour on three to four successive days .
* This salt solution contained\#151 ; Potassium phosphate ... ... ... ... 5 *00 grams | dissolved in Magnesium sulphate ( cryst .
) ... ... . .
1 ' 00 " \gt ; 5000 c.c. of Calcium chloride ( fused ) ... ... 0-50 " J water .
1889.]- On a pure Fermentation of Mannite and Glycerin .
349 The sterile liquid thus obtained was then carefully inoculated with a minute quantity of a pure culture of the organism and placed in an incubator , the temperature of which was maintained at 08 40 C , The fermentation commences in the course of a few days and con-tinues for several weeks .
Three separate fermentations of mannitol were thus carried on .
In each case , before commencing the chemical examination of the products , the contents of the flask were submitted to microscopic examination and to plate-cultivation with gelatine-peptone ; in each case the growth was found to have remained pure , only the characteristic colonies of the organism itself making their appearance on .
the plates , Fermentation of Mannitol No. 1* Two litres of mannitol solution , prepared as above described , were duly sterilised and then carefully inoculated with a minute trace of a pure cultivation of the organism .
The liquid was then placed in an incubator the temperature of which was maintained at 38\#151 ; 40 ' 0 .
The fermentation commenced on the third day and continued with more or less activity for about one month , but the liquid remained in the incubator for upwards of three months ; at the close of this period it was submitted to plate-cultivation as above indicated , and the chemical examination then proceeded with .
Separation of Alcohols.\#151 ; The fermented liquid , which still contained a quantity of undecomposed carbonate of lime , was distilled down to about one-third of its bulk and until the distillate gave only the faintest indications with Lieben 's highly sensitive iodoform reaction for alcohol .
The residue in the distilling flask was set aside to be examined for acids ( see below ) , whilst the distillate , which would contain any alcohols , was redistilled over and over again so as to get rid of the greater part of the water .
When the volume of liquid amounted to only about 50 c.c. a careful determination of the specific gravity was made , and this indicated the presence of 11 41o gtams of absolute alcohol .
Finally the liquid was dehydrated with fused carbonate of potash , and on then distilling it passed over at 79\#151 ; 80 ' C. , showing it to be pure ethyl alcohol .
Separation of Volatile Acids.\#151 ; The residue remaining in the flask , after distilling off the alcohol as above , would contain any acids in the condition of calcium salts ; in order to liberate these acids a calculated quantity of hydrochloric acid was added , sufficient exactly to decompose the carbonate of lime originally added to the liquid .
On then repeatedly distilling with water the volatile acids passed over and were converted into barium salts for analysis .
The hydrochloric acid was not , however , added all at once , but in several distinct portions , and after each addition the liquid was Dr. P , F. Frankland and Mr. J. J. Fox .
[ June 20 , severally treated with an excess of pure barium carbonate , boiled for one hour to expel carbonic atihydride , and then filtered ; the filtrate containing the barium salt of the volatile acid was then evaporated and weighed after drying until constant at 130 ' C. A barium determination was then made by conversion into sulphate , and from the proportion of barium sulphate obtained the composition of the volatile acid was calculated .
The following results were obtained when the several distillates were treated as above : I. 6-636 grams Ba-salt dried at 130 ' 0 .
gave 91*23 per cent. BaS04 .
XI .
4158 grams Ba-salt gave 91-29 per cent. BaS04 .
III .
2-561 grams Ba-salt gave 9140 per cent. BaS04 .
IV .
1-217 grams Ba-salt gave 91*83 per cent. BaS04 .
V. 0*321 gram Ba-salt .
Barium-determination lost .
With the exception of that in fraction IV , all the barium determinations show that the only volatile acid present was acetic acid , inasmuch as the theoretical quantity of barium sulphate obtainable from barium acetate is 91'37 per cent. Thus even the proportion of barium sulphate obtained in fi action IV differs but slightly from the theoretical amount for barium acetate , and the discrepancy was probably due to the presence of a little barium carbonate ( indicated by slight effervescence on treating the residue with hydrochloric acid , and due to the permanent solubility of the barium carbonate even on boiling ) , for no formic acid could be discovered by the silver nitrate reaction .
The total amount of Ba-salt obtained , viz. , 14-893 grams , may be calculated as pure acetic acid , of which there were , therefore , 7-008 grams produced in this fermentation .
Separation of Fixed Acids , After distilling off the volatile acid as above , the calcium in solution was precipitated with sodium carbonate , and the solution after filtering was evaporated to dryness .
The residue thus obtained was placed in a Soxhlet 's apparatus , and extracted with absolute alcohol , which would dissolve any sodium lactate , but leave any sodium succinate , and the greater part of the sodium chloride undissolved .
Both the residue and the alcoholic extract , after evaporating the alcohol , were dissolved in water , acidulated with hydrochloric acid , and then repeatedly shaken with ether .
The ethereal extract of the solution of the residue yielded on evaporation 0*0215 gram of substance , which on ignition gave the suffocating fumes characteristic of succinic acid .
No lactic acid was found in the ethereal extract of t e o er P'Both the residue and the alcoholic extract referred to above might contain unaltered mannitol , which would have to be separated from 1889 .
] On a pure Fermentation of and Glycerin .
351 the large quantity of sodium chloride .
This separation was partially-accomplished by means of strong alcohol in which mannitol is considerably more soluble than sodium chloride ; 17T35 grams of mannitol , containing 362 per cent , of ash ( sodium chloride ) , were obtained , corresponding to 10-93 grams of pure mannitol .
Fermentation of Mannitol 2 .
A second fermentation of mannitol was conducted on the same lines as above , the liquid remaining upwards of three months in the incubator at 38\#151 ; 40 ' C. , and then for another month at the ordinary temperature of the air before it was submitted to examination .
Alcohol.\#151 ; In the alcoholic distillate there was obtained after repeated rectification a liquid of specific gravity indicating the presence of 9'519 grams of absolute alcohol , on further rectification the specific gravity indicated 9'094 grams alcohol , and after dehydration with fused carbonate of potash , 75 grams of liquid boiling at 79\#151 ; 80 ' C. were actually recovered .
The amount of ethyl alcohol actually produced in the fermentation may thus be estimated at about 9"3 grams .
Volatile Acids.\#151 ; From the several fractions of the volatile acids , the following barium salts were prepared:\#151 ; I. 6 3435 grams Ba-salt giving 91-61 per cent. BaS04 .
II .
2-9525 grams Ba-salt giving 91 35 per cent. BaS04 .
III .
0 8080 gram Ba-salt giving 93-88 per cent. BaS04 .
IV .
2-0385 grams Ba-salt .
( The Ba-determination in this salt yielded 116-2 per cent , of BaS04 , an obviously erroneous figure : unfortunately the determination could not be repeated , the remainder of the salt having been lost .
) Remembering the calculated proportions of barium sulphate for\#151 ; Barium acetate ... ... ... 9T37 per cent. , , formate ... ... ... .
102*64 , , it is obvious that the fractions I and II consisted of pure barium acetate , fraction III of barium acetate with a small admixture of barium formate , whilst fraction IV , in which unfortunately no satisfactory Ba-determination was obtained , doubtless contained a larger proportion of formate .
The presence of formic acid in fractions III and IV was further demonstrable by means of the reaction with silver nitrate .
The amount of barium acetate and formate respectively present in mixtures of the two salts may be calculated from the following formula\#151 ; VOL- XLVI .
Bx = 100P A lx- 1006 , Dr. P. F. Frankland and Mr. J. J. Fox .
[ June 20 , in which x \#151 ; percentage of barium formate , P = percentage of BaS04 actually found , B = percentage of BaS04 theoretically obtainable from Ba-formate , b \#151 ; ditto from Ba-acetate .
Thus the calculated composition of Barium acetate .
Barium formate .
Fraction III ... ... ... 0*6281 0*1799 The total quantity of barium salts of the volatile acids obtained from the fermented liquid thus amounted to 12*1425 grams ; of which probably about 1 gram was barium formate .
Taking the whole of the barium salts as barium acetate , the quantity of volatile acid produced in this fermentation amounted to 5*7141 grams calculated as acetic acid .
Fixed Acids , 8fc.\#151 ; The mode of dealing with the residue left after distilling off the volatile acids was somewhat modified in this case .
The calcium was precipitated with sodium carbonate and filtered off ; after which the filtrate was acidulated with hydrochloric acid , and repeatedly shaken with ether to remove any lactic or succinic acids ; from the residue insoluble in ether , a quantity of mannite amounting to 15*716 grams was recovered .
The ethereal extract was evaporated , neutralised with sodium carbonate , again evaporated , and then extracted with strong alcohol ( 97 per cent. ) to dissolve out any sodium lactate , but none was found ; on the other hand , the sodium salt insoluble in alcohol on acidulation and extraction with ether yielded 0*034 gram succinic acid .
Thus the results obtained , in the second fermentation were essentially the same as those yielded by the first , with the exception that in addition to ethyl alcohol and acetic acid a small proportion of formic acid was also produced , this is possibly to be accounted for as the result of a secondary action of the ferment on the acetic acid produced in the first instance .
This conversion of acetic into formic acid being a process of oxidation , may be dependent upon the accession Of air to the liquid at the close of the main fermentation .
Fermentation of Mannite No. 3 .
In this case the fermenting liquid was allowed to remain in the incubator at 38\#151 ; 40 ' C. for three months , and then at the ordinary temperature of the air for nearly two months more .
The alcoholic portion was unfortunately lost , but the volatile acids yielded the following barium salts :\#151 ; 1889 .
] On a pure Fermentation of and Glycerin.353 I. 7"623 grams Ba-salt giving 93*76 per cent. BaS04 .
II .
2'485 grams Ba-salt giving 96 39 per cent. BaS04 .
Both of these fractions were , therefore , mixtures of barium acetate and formate , and by applying the formula given above their composition is found to be\#151 ; Barium acetate .
1 ... ... ... 6*0062 grams II ... ... ... 1*3782 " 7-3844 " Barium formate .
1"6168 grams .
1-1068 " 2-7236 " The total quantity of barium acetate obtained thus amounted to 7 3844 grams , corresponding to 3*4750 grams of acetic acid , whilst the barium formate amounting to 2'7236 grams corresponds to 1-1038 grams of formic acid .
In the residue , after distilling off the volatile acids , 0"027 gram of succinic acid was obtained .
Fermentation of Glycerol .
Pure cultivations of the same organism on being introduced into perfectly similar solutions containing glycerol instead of mannitol caused a vigorous fermentation of the former .
The fermentation was , however , distinctly less energetic than in the case of the mannitol , for it was later in commencing and continued over a longer period of time .
^The investigation of the products of this fermentation of glycerol was carried out on precisely the same lines as in the case of the mannitol .
In each case 60 grams of pure glycerol were submitted to fermentation in 2 litres of water , to which the same additions were made as in the case of the mannitol referred to .
above .
The liquid was fermented at 37\#151 ; 39 ' C. , and before commencing the chemical examination of the products it was submitted to plate cultivation , with the result that no foreign organisms were discoverable .
Fermentation of Glycerol No. 1 .
This fermentation continued over a period of three months , after which the chemical examination of the products was immediately proceeded with .
Alcohols.\#151 ; After repeated distillation a liquid was obtained weighing 63-58 grams , and of specific gravity 0-9871 , corresponding to 4'90 grams of absolute alcohol .
Unfortunately , owing to an accident , the liquid was lost and the alcohol was not further isolated .
Volatile Acids.\#151 ; Proceeding as in the case of the mannitol fermentations , the following barium salts were obtained :\#151 ; - Dr. P ; F. Frankland and Mr. J. J. Fox .
[ June 20 I. 2 '8505 grams Ba-salts giving 91-06 per cent. BaS04 .
II .
3*3630 " " 93-17 " " III .
0 '5360 gram Ba-salts .
Pure Ba-acetate yields 91*37 per cent. BaS04 .
Pure Ba-formate yields 102-64 per cent. BaS04 .
Thus , whilst the first fraction was practically pure barium acetate , the second fraction contained a notable proportion of barium formate , the composition of this fraction , as calculated - by the aid of the formula given on p. 351 , being Barium acetate ... ... ... .
27419 grams " formate ... ... . .
0"5211 , , 3-2630 " .
The third fraction doubtless contained an even larger proportion of barium formate , but the barium determination was unfortunately lost .
i .
It may , however , be taken that the volatile acids produced m this fermentation consisted of about 275 grams acetic and 0 32 gram formic acid .
# .
Fixed Acids.\#151 ; After distilling off the volatile acids as above , the residue containing any fixed acids , together with calcium chloride and unaltered glycerol , was treated with sodium carbonate to precipitate the calcium , which was filtered off ; the filtrate was evaporated to dryness and extracted with a mixture consisting of 5 vols .
of alcohol and 1 vol. of ether .
Such a mixture , whilst dissolving glycerol , does not dissolve either sodium lactate or succinate .
From the ether-alcohol extract 22-8615 grams of unaltered glycerol* were recovered .
The residue , insoluble in ether-alcohol , was treated with strong boiling alcohol to extract any sodium lactate , but none was obtained , the residue remaining after treatment with alcohol was dissolved in water , acidulated with hydrochloric acid , and repeatedly shaken up with ether ; from this ethereal extract 0-079 gram of succinic acid was obtained .
The results show that only a part of the glycerol had undergone fermentation ( nearly one half having been recovered ) , whilst the principal products were alcohol and acetic acid , together with a small quantity of formic acid and traces of succinic acid .
Fermentation of Glycerol No. 2 .
In this experiment the fermenting liquid was allowed to remain in the incubator at 37\#151 ; 39 ' C. for five months before examination .
* This glycerol yielded on incineration only 0'85 per cent , of ash .
1889 .
] On a pure Fermentation of Mannite and .
355 Alcohol.\#151 ; Repeated distillation yielded 63*4775 grams of liquid , of specific gravity 0*9803 , corresponding to 8*20 grams of absolute alcohol ; after further rectification the weight of liquid was reduced to 54*0 grams , of specific gravity 0*9776 , corresponding to 8*14 grams absolute alcohol .
By dehydrating this with fused potassium carbonate , 7*518 grams of alcohol , boiling at 79 ' C. , were obtained .
Volatile Acids.\#151 ; Proceeding as before , the following amount of barium salt was obtained :\#151 ; Total barium salt = 8*239 grams , giving 91*08 per cent. BaS04 .
Pure Ba-acetate gives 91*37 per cent. BaS04 .
Thus the whole of the salt was practically pure barium acetate , although a trace of formic acid was discoverable qualitatively .
The total quantity of acetic acid , as calculated from the barium salt , amounted to 3*877 grams .
Fixed Acids.\#151 ; Using the same method of separation as described in the first fermentation of glycerol , 0*063 gram of succinic acid was found , whilst 24*19 grams of unaltered glycerol were recovered .
This glycerol on incineration yielded only 0*96 per cent , of ash .
The results obtained in this fermentation , therefore , fully substantiate those of the first .
The glycerol was only very partially decomposed , the principal products being again alcohol and acetic acid , with traces of formic and succinic acids .
In the fermentation of the glycerol , as in that of the mannitol , it would appear that the formic acid is produced at the expense of the acetic acid , for in this second fermentation of glycerol , in which only traces of formic acid were discovered , the proportion of acetic acid was considerably greater than in the first fermentation , in which a notable quantity of formic acid was found .
The results obtained in the several fermentations may be tabulated as follows:\#151 ; Mannitol Fermentations .
Alcohol .
Acetic acid .
Formic acid .
Succinic acid .
X* .
11*415 grams 7*008 grams . .
0*0215 gram 11. .
9*3 " [ 5*7141* ] " . .
0*034 " 111. . . .
3*475 " 1*104 grams 0*027 " Glycerol Fermentations .
Alcohol .
Acetic acid .
Formic acid .
Succinic acid .
1. .
[ 4*90 ] grams [ 2*75 ] grams [ 0*32 gram ] 0*079gram 11. .
8*17 " 3*877 " trace 0*063 " * Total volatile acid calculated as acetio acid .
356 Pure Fermentation of Mannite and Glycerin .
[ June 20 , Remarks .
( 1 .
) Both mannitol and glycerol are fermented by this organism , with production of essentially the same substances , viz. , ethyl alcohol and acetic acid , together with smaller quantities of formic and succinic acids .
The proportion of formic acid in both fermentations appears to be formed at the expense of the acetic acid , inasmuch as in all cases the amount of acetic acid found varied inversely as the proportion of formic acid .
The proportion of succinic acid , although in both cases very small , was distinctly greater in the glycerol than in the mannitol fermentations .
( 2 .
) The proportion of alcohol to acetic acid in the mannitol fermentations is constant , viz. , as T63 : 1 , which corresponds to the molecular proportions .
2C2H5*OH : GH3-COOH = 153 ( 2x46 ) ( 60 ) ( 3 .
) Excluding the first glycerol fermentation , in which the alcohol found was doubtless too small , the proportion of alcohol to acetic acid is as 2*11 : 1 , corresponding to the molecular proportions , 3C2H5*OH : CH3-COOH = 2*30 ( 3x46 ) ( 60 ) ( 4 .
) In all the fermentations the decomposition was only an incomplete one , a considerable part of the mannitol , and especially of the glycerol , being in each case recoverable after the fermentation was finished .
We propose subsequently to investigate the cause of this limitation .
( 5 .
) In the mannitol fermentation it is impossible to determine whether the succinic acid is formed by a process of synthesis or analysis , but in the fermentation of glycerol it obviously has a synthetical origin .
( 6 .
) In addition to ethyl alcohol , there appears to be also a small proportion of some higher alcohol produced , for in the alcoholic distillation the distillate was at first somewhat turbid , but .became clear again when a larger quantity had collected .
( 7 .
) We have introduced pure cultivations of the same .bacillus into solutions of a number of different substances likely to undergo fermentation .
The bacillus , as already mentioned , ferments glucose vigorously , it also more slowly ferments cane-sugar , milk-sugar , starch , and calcium glycerate ; the products of these fermentations are being further investigated by one of us .
On the other hand , we have ' been unable to cause it to ferment solutions of dulcite , ery*thrite , ethylene glycol , calcium lactate , tartrate , citrate , or glycollate .
1889.1 Temperature and Specific Inductive Capacity. .
Its inactivity towards dulcite is particularly interesting , and furnishes another instance of the selective power of micro-organisms towards the most closely allied isomeric bodies .
Remembering the relationship of dulcite to galactose and of galactose to milk-sugar ( galactose is converted into dulcite by nascent hydrogen , and milk-sugar is converted into galactose and dextrose by the action of dilute acids ) , it is to be anticipated 'that in the fermentation which this bacillus induces in milk-sugar , the decomposition is limited to the dextrose portion of the milk-sugar molecule .
In the action of this bacillus on starch , the latter is in the first instance dissolved , doubtless through the agency of a diastatic ferment , to which the organism gives rise , as well as to the peptonising one which brings about the liquefaction of the gelatine already referred to .
A tube containing starch-liquid , which had been fermented by the bacillus , gave no blue coloration with iodine , clearly showing that the whole of the starch had undergone transformation into other products .
( 8 .
) In view of the characteristic products\#151 ; ethyl alcohol and acetic acid\#151 ; to which this organism gives rise , we propose for it the name of Bacillus ethaceticus .
XL " On the Effect of Temperature on the Specific Inductive Capacity of a Dielectric .
" By W. OASSIE , M.A. Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) .
The variation with temperature of specific inductive capacity was measured in different ways for solids and liquids .
In the case of solids a condenser was made with thin sheets of the dielectric in question , and the capacity measured at different temperatures .
The condenser was suspended in an air-bath by wires passing through the top to an insulated support outside .
This support was several feet above the bath , so that it was never heated , and its insulation was independent of the temperature of the condenser .
The capacity was measured by Professor J. J. Thomson 's method , * and conduction or absorption in the condenser allowed for by varying the time of charge and discharge .
The rate of increase per degree centigrade of the specific inductive capacity was found to be for\#151 ; Mica between 11 ' and 110 ' ... .
0-0003 Ebonite , , 13 " 63 ... .
0-0004 Glass " 17 " 60 0-0012 Another specimen of .
" .
" CO r\#151 ; 1 -60 ... .
0-002 * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1883 .

