426 An Explanation of Criticisms on Dr. S. Chapman 's Recent Paper , " An Outline of a Theory of Magnetic .
" By C. Chree , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. ( Received November 20 , 1919 .
) Criticism of Dr. Chapman was not the primary object of my paper , * and it would seem that I have studied brevity too much in referring to differences which to myself were conspicuous .
That fault I shall hope to repair now .
But first I should make it clear that there are certain points about which there is , I think , no difference of opinion .
Our knowledge of magnetic storm phenomena in high latitudes is very limited , but in low and moderate latitudes the following phenomena in the variations of H ( horizontal force ) during storms having Sc 's ( sudden commencements ) have been , I think , generally recognised for many years .
The result of the Sc movement or movements is almost invariably to enhance H , and a marked fall does not as a rule set in immediately .
This rule is not absolutely without exception .
For instance , on the occasion of the very large storm on August 11-12 of the present year , a large reverse movement set in so soon after the Sc that the mean values alike for the first hour , the first half hour , and even the first quarter hour of " storm time " are much below the pre-storm value .
Still exceptions are rare , and the mean value of H for the first hour or half hour after the Sc is nearly always in excess of the pre-storm value .
Sooner or later a marked fall sets in , which , though generally interrupted by oscillations , usually reduces the value of H well below the pre-storm value , and again sooner or later this is followed by a recovery , which in its turn may be interrupted by oscillations .
So far , I think , there is pretty general agreement .
The doubtful points are essentially two : 1st .
Is the sequence of events after the Sc so uniform as to make the general use of " storm time " desirable ?
2nd .
Are the phenomena at stations so dominated by the distance from the earth 's magnetic axis that Dr. Chapman 's combination of them into groups , determined by that distance , is really helpful ?
As I carefully pointed out , I had selected the two storms discussed in my paper before Dr. Chapman 's paper appeared .
But , as it so happened , they brought up the two doubtful points in an acute form .
The Kew and Eskdalemuir H curves for March 7-8 , as Dr. Chapman remarks , do show a * ' Roy .
So'c .
Proc. , ' A , vol. 96 , p. 32 .
i An Explanation of Criticisms , etc. , etc. considerable general resemblance to the corresponding curve of his fig. 1 ; but side by side with these in my fig. 1 are the corresponding curves for August 15-16\#151 ; which seem to have escaped Dr. Chapman 's eye\#151 ; and in these H continued to rise for several hours after the Sc. This seemed , and still seems to me , a notable difference .
The second point was raised by the Agincourt H curve for March 7-8 which also appeared in my fig. 1 .
In this case it will , I think , be well to glance at the size of the differences between Agincourt on the one hand , and Kew and Eskdalemuir on the other , as given for H in my Table I.* The algebraic excess of the Agincourt departure from the pre-storm value over the Kew departure was 130 7 at 1.5 h. on March 8 , and more than 340 7 at 2.5 h. The corresponding algebraic excesses of Agincourt over Eskdalemuir were respectively 292 7 at 1.5 h. , and more than 532 7 at 2.5 h. The differences we have to explain are thus enormous .
Dr. Chapman is now apparently disposed to ascribe them to a large " local time " variation at Agincourt , since , as he admits , the local time variation at the European stations is not large .
Apart from the gigantic variation required , I do not see how Dr. Chapman can possibly reconcile this with the fundamental assumptions of his first paper .
According to it the " local time " variation , equally with the " general storm " variation , should have been determined simply by the distance of the station from the Earth 's magnetic axis .
Its amplitude should thus have been practically identical for Kew and Agincourt\#151 ; these two stations having , as I pointed out , the same magnetic latitude\#151 ; the only difference being five hours in the phase angle .
The amplitude as shown by the curve 3 in Dr. Chapman 's fig. 3 is only about 20 7 .
I may add that , in connection with the discussion of the Scott Antarctic Expedition magnetic data of 1911-12,1 have had occasion to compare a large number of disturbances at Agincourt with corresponding disturbances at Eskdalemuir and Kew .
These suffice to show that Agincourt is in general a much more highly disturbed station than Kew .
This is one of my reasons for thinking that the classification of stations according to distance from the magnetic axis is not well advised .
The criticism that he had derived his results from storms , irrespective of size , which Dr. Chapman quotes from my p. 39 , referred to his fig. 1 .
In the case of his fig. 6 , which was restricted to two stations , Bombay and Pavlovsk , storms were presented in three groups according to size .
With only three groups there would naturally be a considerable range of amplitude within any one group , still a distinction was made .
But fig. 1 , unlike fig. 6 , shows only one set of curves for each group of stations .
I had supposed that , * Loc .
cit. , p. 35 .
2 ii VOL. XCVI.\#151 ; A. 428 An Explanation of , etc. , etc. except for Bombay and Pavlovsk , Dr. Chapman had confined himself to forty storms of " considerable , though not outstanding intensity , " * and that his figs. 1 , 3 , 4 , and 5 , represented results derived from superposing all these , irrespective of size or duration .
If the storms were specially selected , the criteria observed should certainly have been explicitly stated , and corresponding reservations made in presenting the conclusions as universally applicable .
The storms considered in my paper were moderate ones .
They were trifling for instance , as recorded at Kew , compared with the recent storm of August 11-12 .
But without knowing more of the storms on which Dr. Chapman based his fig. 1 , I cannot say how much of truth there may be in the explanation which he gives of the comparative shallowness of the depression of H shown by that figure .
A different explanation occurs to me .
The time subsequent to a Sc when a marked fall appears in H , even in storms of similar size at the same station , is in my experience a very variable quantity .
Similarly , the time when a marked recovery sets in is highly variable .
Thus , when one superposes , following " storm time , " a large number of H curves , the only feature that is universal , or nearly so , is the enhancement immediately following the Sc. After the first hour or half hour of " storm time " positive contributions from some storms are superposed on negative contributions from others .
Thus the maximum depression apparent in the composite curve is small compared with the arithmetic mean of the depressions in the individual curves .
* Log. cit. , pp. 63 and 64 .
I

