VI .
's On a New Class of Organic Bases , in which Nitrogen is substituted for Hydrogen .
" I3y PETER GIE8ss , ES .
Coimmunicated by Dr. HOFRMANN .
Received May 24 , 1861 .
In a previous Note I have called attention to two new bodies pro ; duced by the action of nitrous acid upon the alcoholic solution respectively of aniline and nitraniline .
Both substances* , Aniline derivative. .
C 111 N , Nitraniline derivative .
C , , Ig ( NO02 ) N3 , are generated by the substitution of one equivalent of nitrogen for thiree equivalents of hydrogen in the original compounds .
In continuing my experiments on the replacement of hydrogen by nitrogin in organic bodies generally , I have not only succeeded in producing similar compounds from nearly all the basic derivatives of aniline , but have also obtained corresponding products from toluidine and anisidine .
The following equation represents the formation of these compounds in the aniline-series:2 ( Cn HJ(n+l ) ) N)+ -I NO2 C2 , , H1nN : + 211 0 .
Two equivalents New compound .
of aniline .
I do not at present venture to express an opinion regarding the constitution of these bodies ; nevertheless their formation , their mutual relations , and their decompositions may in a measure be represented by the following formule : Type : two equivalents of aniline C6 7 N , .
Co H7 N2 Azophenyldiamine .
6 .
CNH N2 .
Azonitrophenyldiamine* 6. .
6 ( NO2 ) N " ' }N C6 H6 ( NO2 ) Azobromphenyldiamine C , H. Br N}2 Nearly all these bodies are beautifully crystallized , and some possess very characteristic properties ; the greater number are extremely weak bases , which it is scarcely possible to combine with acids .
On the other hand , they readily produce double compounds with dichloride of platinum and trichloride of gold , the composition of which proves that these new bodies belong to the class of diatomic bases , as expressed by the following formulae : Double compound of hydrochloC H NO } rate of azophenyldiamine and,6 C , ( PtC1)4 dichloride of platinum J67 Double compound of hydrochlo-1 p1 BrN " rate of azobromphenyldiamine 63 ri }N 2 2C12 ( PtCl2)2 and dichloride of platinum .
67J When exposed in alcoholic solution to the action of nitrous acid for a second time , most of these bases again lose three equivalents of hydrogen , which are again replaced by one equivalent of nitrogen , a new class of compounds being thus formed possessing in a still higher degree the peculiarities of the nitrogen-substituted bodies .
The following equation illustrates this reaction : CUHEN"'t C 14 2 N't 06J6 N , +HNO C6 4 Nit JN 2 Azophenyldiamine .
New compound .
In practice , however , the bases are never obtained in the free state , but always as nitrates , from which they may be liberated by the addition of an alkali .
The following formula represent the bodies of this series which have hitherto been studied : Diazophenyldiamine .
C I1I4 N " }N C0 14 N ' N2 C If Br I^ 1 Diazobromphenvldiamine .
11t Br Nr 3113 Br Nt " C0 I-C N"'I Diazotoluyldiaminie .
c7 II N " ' f N2 .
In the free state , these bases generally present themselves in the form of yellow precipitates , insoluble in water .
On account of their comparative instability , they are little adapted for analysis ; I have therefore generally fixed their composition by the analysis of their nitrates and platinum-salts , most of which are splendidly crystallized .
The following formulae represent several of these compounds : Nitrate of diazophenyldiamine Co 1H4 N/ } N2 , ( HN03)2a Gold-salt of diazobromphenylC1 H3 Br N !
" } diamine ... ... CH Br N " ' j 2 , Cl2 , ( Au Cl)2 .
Platinum-salt of diazotoluylC7 -Is N " ' 1 diamine ... ... C , H , N11 N " ' H2 C12 ( Pt Cl)2 ' My attention has been especially attracted by this last class of new bodies , not only because of their peculiar constitution , but also on account of the remarkable physical properties by which , as a class , they are distinguished .
One of their most striking features is the tremendous power with which , under the influence of heat or percussion , these substances explode .
The greatest precaution is necessary in manipulating with these compounlds .
I have scarcely commenced the study of the products of decomposition of these bodies .
The following observations , however , justify the hope that they will not be withont theoretical interest .
Nitrate of diazophenyldiamm onium , when heated with water , is rapidly decomposed according to the following equation : C12 N4 , ( HN03)2+2H 120 =2 C , 0+2 NO + 4N .
Nitrate of diazophenylPhenol .
Nitric acid .
diammonium .
Qualitative experiments have proved that this substance undergoes a corresponding transformation under the influence of sulphuretted hydrogen .
C1 , N4 , ( HNO3 ) , + 2H , -S = 2C -I S+2HN03+4N .
Nitrate of diazophenylPhenyl-mercaptan .
diammonium .
It is obvious that the last reaction supplies a general method for the production of the mercaptlans belonging to the homiologues of the phenyl-series , the first representative of which was discovered a few months ago by Vogt , who obtained it by submitting the chloride of sulpho-phenyl to the action of hydrogenx .
The observations described in this Note were made in Professor Hofmann 's laboratory .

