Experiments and Observations on the Development of Magnetical Properties in Steel and Iron by Percussion .
By William Scoresby , Jun , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. .
Read March 7 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 241 .
] The result of the experiments detailed in this paper are , that merely hammering a bar of soft steel upon pewter and upon stone , gives it a feeble magnetic power ; but that the same bar hammered vertically upon a poker , became much more powerfully magnetic .
On inverting the bar a single blow nearly destroyed its magnetism , while the effect of two blows was to change the poles .
Several blows upon the end of the bar when in the plane of the magnetic equator , also destroyed polarity .
Increase in the length of the bars augmented the magnetism thus given by percussion .
A strong magnet properly tempered was uniformly injured by hammering , but most rapidly when the north pole was upwards ; after the magnetism , however , had been thus reduced to a certain extent , the power became nearly stationary , so that striking it in any position with the same hammer , occasioned scarcely any change of intensity .
The strong magnetizing effect of percussion on soft steel , induced Mr. Scoresby to apply the property to the formation of magnets , and he succeeded in giving to them considerable lifting powers , every care being taken to exclude all magnetic substances , and especially to free the bars of magnetism before the experiment , The author also examined the effects of percussion upon soft steel magnets , and upon cast iron .
A soft steel magnet , lifting 1000 grains , when placed vertically upon a poker , with its north pole upwards , had its magnetism destroyed by five blows , A bar of soft iron hammered vertically upon the poker could not be made to lift more than between 6 and 11 grains .
A cast iron bar of the same size , and similarly treated , lifted 37 grains , and , having acquired this po-wer , its magnetism was nearly destroyed by five blows with the north pole upwards .

