V. An Account of a Book entitled , Jo. Ph. Breynij , M. D. &amp;c. Dissertatio Physica de Poylthalamiis , nova Testaceorum class , &amp;c. Gedani , 1732 , 4to , or a Physical Dissertation of a new Class of Shells , which he stiles Polythalamiums , &amp;c. with fourteen Copper Plates .
By Richard-Middleton Massey , M. D. F. R. S. and Hon. F. C. Med. Lond. IN the first Chapter he discourses of Shells in general , and premises a Method of placing them in different Classes , which he reduces to eight , viz. Tubulus , Cochlidium , Polythalamium , Lepas , Concha , Conchoides , Balanus , and Echinus .
The second Chapter treats of Polythalamiums , which he defines a Tabulous Shell divided into several Cavities , conical , straight , or regularly Spiral , with a Pipe , or Canal , passing through each Cavity .
This again he subdivides into four , viz. 1 .
Orthoceras , 2 .
Lituus , 3 .
Ammonia , and 4 .
Nautilus .
The third Chapter treats of the Nautilus and Nautilites , which last he takes to be a Stone formed under Ground in the Cavities of the Nautilus .
The fourth Chapter is of the Ammonia and Ammonites .
The fifth is of the Lituus ( which he names from some Resemblance it has to the Lituus , or Crosier , which the ancient Roman Augurs used in their Ceremonies ) and the Lituites or Stone formed in its Cavities under-ground .
The Shell is yet unknown , but of the Stone he has given a curious Draught , as it appears in a Marble which was brought from Oelandt , an Island of Sweden .
The sixth Chapter is of the Orthoceras and Orthoceratites , or stony Concretion in its Cavity .
Of these last Stones he produces nine different Species , which he distinguishes chiefly by the Pipe , or Canal , which runs through them .
In his Note concerning the Belemnites Prussici , of which he describes two Species , he takes notice that the stony Cone , or Nucleus of it , is never found articulate , as in those that come from Sweden , and some other Countries .
At the latter end of his Book he proposes a methodical Distribution of the Echini and Echinites , or Stones that are generated under Ground in the Cavities of the Echini .
The whole Method he proposes for ranging Shells in general , may be seen in the following Table .
Tabula Methodica TESTACEORU M. ~Dentalia Entalia ~T UBULUS Solen-univalvis -unde Belemnites ~Nautilus tenuis ~Monothalamia Auris marina Nerita Cochlea Buccinum COCHLIDIUM Murex Cassis * ~Tubulosa Cylindrum * Voluta * Porcellana * ~Nautilus Ammonia Polythalamia POLYTHALAMIUM Lituus Orthocerata Testa ~L EPAS Patella ~Chama ~Simplex Mytulus Tellen CONCHA Pinna Ostrea Pecten Vasculosa Anomia ~Pholas ~C ONCHOIDES Concha Anatifera BALANUS Balanus Composita ~Echinometra Echinoconus Echinocorys ECHINUS Echinanthos Echinospatagus Echinobrissus Echinodiscus

