XII .
Description of a rare Species of Worm Shells , discovered at an Island lying off the North-west Coast of the Island of Sumatra , in the East Indies .
By J. Griffiths , Esq. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K. B. P. R. S. Read February 13 , i8o6 .
A SHORT time after a very violent earthquake that occurred in the island of Sumatra , in the year 1797 , these uncommon productions of nature were discovered ; the violence of the concussion was more particularly confined to that part of the island situated on the sea coast , between two degrees of the equator north and south , and to the islands adjacent .
Its effects were most severely felt at Padang ; many lives were lost , and considerable damage sustained , by a most tremendous inundation of the sea ; this was also experienced at the low island of Battoo , distant from the coast of Sumatra about twenty leagues .
These shells were procured in a small sheltered bay , with a muddy bottom , surrounded by coral reefs , on the island of Battoo ; upon the sea receding from the bay after the inundation they were seen protruding from a bank of slightly-indurated mud , and two or three broken specimens were brought to me at Padang , by the master of a boat trading between that port and the island , for cocoa-nut oil , sea slug , &amp;c. As I had not observed any of these shells in the cabinets I had seen abroad , or in England , nor yet a description in any author that I was able to consult , joined to the total ignorance of the Dutch inhabitants of Padang , many of whom had been a long time in the habit of trading to Battoo without having seen or heard of such a production , led me to believe them entirely new , and made me extremely desirous to procure some more perfect specimens , and such information respecting them , as might be acceptable to you , Sir , in your pursuit and inquiry on every subject connected with natural history .
I was consequently induced to send a small praw , with a servant of mine ( a Papooa Coffree ) who was very expert in diving , and had been employed under my own inspection in procuring many submarine objects , which the coast and islands near Padang abound with ; it is therefore from his account , corroborated by others of the crew , that I can give a description of the locality of these subjects , with their appearance in the water , which I think is correct .
He stated , that he had found these tube shells in the bay before mentioned , and in another inlet of the sea , sticking out of rather hard mud , mixed with small stones , sand , &amp;c. from eight to ten inches or more , and from one to three fathoms under water ; they were standing in different directions , and separate from each other .
Both the master of the boat and crew assured me , that the animal throws out tentacula from the two apertures of the apex of the shell , that resembled the small actinie adhering to the rocks about Padang , and that the body of the shell was filled with a soft gelatinous flesh , similar to that of the teredo navalis , but this they had washed out , from its very soon proving putrid , and extremely offensive ; that they were in considerable number , and being gently e7o shaken , easily taken up ; but all of them mutilated more or less , which was probably occasioned at the time of the earthquake , when many large fragments of madrepores , corals , &amp;c. were torn from their situation , by the agitation of the sea , Although more than twenty specimens were brought to me , and others obtained afterwards , there was not one complete ; yet being so fortunate as to procure a portion of the shell with the apex nearly perfect , and another with the opposite closed extremity equally so , I am enabled to give a description of them .
The length of the longest of these shells that came into my possession was 5 feet 4 inches , and the circumference at the base 9 inches , tapering upwards to 2inches ; the colour on the outside milk white , the inner surface rather of a yellow tinge .
This specimen was nearly perfect , having a small part of the lower extremity entire .
I have others of various dimensions , a very good one about g feet long and 4 inches round , tapering to 1-iinch at the point ; most of these shells had adhering to them , about one foot or more from the top , the small cockscomb oyster , small serpulh , &amp;c. consequently they must have been that distance protruded from the hard mud , but the water being thick and discoloured , the people of Battoo had not taken notice of them antecedent to the earthquake .
These tube shells differ very much among tlemselves , not one of them being correspondent in size or thickness to another .
The large end of the shell is completely closed , and as a rounded appearance ; at this part it is very thin .
The small end or apex is very brittle , and is divided by a longitudinal vMDcccvI N 271septum running down for eight or nine inches , forming it into two distinct tubes , enclosed within the outer one , from whence the animal throws out tentacula ; the substance of the shell is composed of layers having a fibrous and radiated appearance , covered externally with a pure white crust , and internally is of a yellow tinge ; the external surface is frequently interrupted in a transverse direction by a sudden increase of thickness , which probably indicates different stages in the growth of the shell , although they are at unequal distances , sometimes at six inches , at others four , in the same shell .
These interruptions bear a rude and unfinished appearance , and do not extend into the radiated substance , but are merely on the outside shell , which has rather a smooth surface , but at the same time impressed with the irregularities of the substance with which it was in contact .
These shells all differ in thickness , some being not more than one-eighth of an inch , others full half an inch in substance ; many are nearly straight , others crooked and contorted .
The internal surface is in general smooth , though in some of them covered with excrescences resembling tubercles , and without any indication of the animal having adhered to any part of it .
It is the great length and size of these shells , which are the largest of the testacea of a tubular form yet discovered , and the division in the upper part , which constitute their principal peculiarities .
I should add , that on their being broken in a transverse direction , the body of the shell between the inner surface and the outer crust , appears to resemble stalactites , and indeed they might easily be mistakein for them .
By consulting RUMPHIUS I found that my opinion of these tubes being entirely a new genus , was unfounded , for which , 272 Sir , I am much indebted to your kind attention .
le is th only original author , I believe , who has given any account of this production , but the figure of the shell in RUMPJIIUS is somewhat different from those I have described ; it exhibits two long jointed tubes , issuing from the upper part of the exterior tube ; and he describes them to be found in shallow water among the mangrove trees ; in the account given by RUMPHIUS there is a description both of the ground in which they are found , and the mode in which the large end of the shell is closed , exactly similar to what I have stated , so that it is evidently of the same genus , but , as it difiers in having the two tubes through which the tentacula pass out , of considerable length , and entirely separate , a circumstance which may be connected with the situation of the animal in shallow water among mangroves , this , I apprehend , must be clearly admitted to be an entirely new species .
Mr. HoME , who has interested himself in the natural history of this animal , has taken the trouble to arrange the drawings for the further illustration of the subject , which have beern executed under his inspection from the specinen sI have brought to this country ; and I shall be happy if my materials,.rr any I can procure from Sumatra , may enable that gentleman to make any further observations otn this curious productionof ( anature .
qew Burlington Street , January 23d , 80o6 .
EXPLANATION OF THE DRAWINGS .
( Plate X. ) Fig. i , Is a representation of the whole shell in the most perfect state in which its parts have been seen , and there is reason to believe that the only part wanting is the orifice of the double tube .
The drawing is made upon a scale of 2inches to a foot .
Fig 2 , A drawing of the small termination of the shell .
At its lower part , for an inch in length , it exhibits the usual appearance of the external surface , but from thence to the end , it is very irregular , and in some specimens small shells of oysters , small serpulke , &amp;c. adhered to it .
All this surface was probably above the mud , exposed to the sea water .
At the upper extremity one of the tubes is broken , showing the size of its canal , also that it is connected with the outer tube in which it is enclosed .
The other tube is a little bent , and diverging outwardly , and this is probably its natural termination .
Fig. 3 , Represents a section of the shell , at that part where it forms a double tube , to show the origin of the two tubes , the thickness of the septum between them , and the two orifices leading into them .
Fig. 4 , Is a transverse section of the shell at the thickest part , after it had been polished , to show that it is made up of strata of crystals surrounding one another in concentric circles ; also a front view of the orifices into the double tube .
Fig. 5 .
A front view of the orifices into the double tube , also showing the thickness of the shell at that part , the canal of which has an oval form .
274 ^ .
, 1-Ii I_ _~~ ~v I. *'._ I. .
I..I I.,.h t ' I. .
I 111 ... , ' .
I II i : 1 , Iii i : i ? ?
1 ?
f ; iirIc I : I , I ' , I ) .
Plate XI .
Fig. 6 , Represents the internal cavity of the shell at its lower part , which is every where smooth ; ' it also shows how very thin the shell is which closes up the extremity , compared with that of the general tube , which is also thinnest at the lowest part .
Fig. 7 , A section of a specimen which had the tuberculated appearance on its internal surface .

