lished .
for computing the Eclipses of the first Satellite ~ Jupiter , without the help of any other Numbers .
The ease of this Calculus gave great satisfaction to those that delight in Telescope observations ; and has been of good use to encourage Astronomers to ascertain the Geographical Longitudes of many places , by help of these Eclipses ; whose ~ seems to afford us the properest means for that purpose .
But it being now 26 Years since those Tables were ~ , length of Time has discovered that this Satellites motion is a small matter swifter than M. Cassini had supposed it ; and the Reverend Mr. Pound being provided with all the Qualifications requisite for such a Work , has of late applied himself to rectify by frequent Observation what he found amiss in the aforesaid Calculus ; and withal has put it into another Form yet much more easy and compendious , by bringing what M. Cassini had given us in odd Numbers~ to the Millesimals of a Circle , both as to Numb. I. which he calls Numb. A. being the mean Anomalie of Jupiter in such parts ; as also to Numb. II .
or our Numb. B. which is the distance of the mean place of Jupiter , from the true place of the Sun , and which with the addition~ of the Equation of Numb. B. gives the true angle of Commutation in the same Millesimals of a Circle .
And having deducted from the Epoches the greatest Equations both of Numb. A and B. he restores them by adding as much to the Equations themselves , by which means they all become Affirmative , so that the whole computation is performed by Addition only .
The Reader is supposed to be acquainted with the Method of M. Cassini 's Calculus , which is at large explained in the aforesaid Transaction , Num. 214 .
For which ~ this ~ Description may suffice at present .
The Use of the foregoing TABLE S. THE Eclipses of the first Satellite of Jupiter , as has been already said , afford the best means of determining the Longitude of places on the Land , where Telescopes of a convenient length may be used ; thirteen of these Eclipses happening every 23 Days ; but it is requisite that the Observer know near the matter when these opportunities offer ~ , least on the one hand he let them slip , or else grow weary by a too long attendance on them .
Those therefore who are curious to observe them , may readily compute the times of the Immersions or Emersions of this ~ , and that ~ great exactness , by the following very sho t Precepts , which admit of no Exception or Caution , viz. Out of the first Table take the Epoch for the Year , with its corresponding Numb. A and Numb. B ; and to them add , out of the Tables of Months , the Day , Hour , Minute and Second , nearest less than the time of the Eclipse you seek for , together with its Num. A and B : the Sum of the times is the mean time of the middle of the Eclipse 2 .
With Num A thus col~ take out the first AEquation of the Conjunctions ; as also the AEquation of Num. B. always to be added to Num B. before found .
3 .
With Num B so equated , take out the second AEquation of the Conjunctions ; and in the last Table , the third AEquation , as also the Semi-duration of the ~ answering to Num. A. 4 .
~ the mean time of the middle of the Eclipse , add all those three AEquations ; the Sum ~ be the ~ equated time of the middle of the Eclipse sought .
5 .
If Num. B. equated be less than 500 , ~ the Semiduration , and you will have the time of the Immersion , or if it be more than 500 , adding the same , it will give the time of the Emersion But Note , the times thus found are equal time , still to be reduced to the Apparent : and that in the Bissextile Year , after February , one Day is to be deducted from the Day of the Month .
The less skilful may perhaps be pleased with an Example or two , which may serve them to imitate .
Let it be required to find the time of the Immersion of this Satellite into Jupiter 's shadow , November the 9th 1719 .
in the Morning .
The Work stands thus , So that by this Calculus , on the ninth of November .
at 4 Minutes after 6 in the Morning , equal Time , may be seen the Immersion of this Satellite into Jupiter 's shadow .
Another Example shall be of the Emersion on the fifth of April 1720 .
viz. Hence it appears that at one Minute after Midnight following the fifth of April , equal Time , will happen the Emersion required .
Nor do we doubt but that the Event will very nearly answer .
Lastly , it may not be amiss here to inform the Reader , that we have learnt , by the experience of many Years Observation , that the second inequality of this Satellite proceeds from the progressive Propagation of Light , and is common to all the rest of the Satellites : Light , being found to proceed in about seven Minutes of time as far as from the Sun to the Earth , whether with an equable motion or otherwise is still a question .
For this reason we have added a Third AEquation , whereby to account for the greater distance of Jupiter from the Earth in Aphelio than in Perihelio , as the Second AEquation answers to the greater distance of the Planer when near the Conjunction of the Sun , than when near his Opposition .
FINI S. London : Printed by W. and J. INNY S , Printers to the Royal Society , at the Princes-Arms at the West Corner of St. Paul 's Church-Yard .
1719 .

