J878 .
] Dr. H. Watneyon Minute Anatomy of the Thymus .
369 sounds which have hitherto been inaudible by the mere operation of sonorous vibrations upon the conducting power of matter .
My warmest thanks are due to Mr. W. H. Preece , electrician to the Post Office , for his appreciation of the importance of the facts I have stated , and for his kind counsel and aid in the preparation of this paper .
I do not intend to take out a patent , as the facts I have mentioned belong more to the domain of discovery than invention .
No doubt inventors will ere long improve on the form and materials employed .
I have already my reward in being allowed to submit my researches to the Royal Society .
II .
" Note on the Minute Anatomy of the Thymus .
" By Herbert Watney , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
Communicated by Dr. Klein , F.R.S. Received April 8 , 1878 .
The thymus is composed of lobes , lobules , and follicles .
Each follicle consists of a cortical and a medullary portion ; the medullary parts of two neighbouring follicles are often united , and at one point , therefore , the medullary portion may extend through the cortex of the follicle ; in some follicles the medullary portion may be found in the form of two or more islands situated in the interior of the follicle .
The follicle is composed ( a ) of a reticulum of nucleated cells , and ( b ) of cells ; the reticulum forms an adventitia to the blood-vessels .
The cells forming the reticulum in the cortical part of the follicle consist of a disk-shaped nucleus , a cell body very little larger than the nucleus , and of very long , fine , branching processes .
The reticulum of the medullary portion is composed of cells with coarse , short processes ; the body of the cell is more than twice , or even three times , as large as the nucleus , and contains one , or at times , two nuclei ; in places , large protoplasmic masses are met with , forming part of the reticulum composed of two or three cells united together .
There are also found in the medullary portions , in certain states of the thymus , connective tissue trabeculae .
The cells are of four kinds:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Small cells , resembling the lymph cells .
of a follicle of a lvmphatic gland .
Staining fluids act differently on these cells in the cortical and in the medullary parts of the follicle .
\#187 ; ( 2 .
) Large granular cells of various sizes ; many of them have long processes by which , in some cases , they are attached to the trabeculae and to the blood-vessels : these cells contain one or two nuclei , and help to form ( partly by a process of vacuolation ) the concentric corpuscles of the thymus .
\amp ; 70 Prof. V\r .
K. Clifford on the Classification of Loci .
[ May 9 , ( 3 .
) Giant cells .
Mnltinuclear masses of protoplasm .
( 4 .
) Conoentric corpuscles of various sizes , sometimes attached to 'one another by long processes .
The corpuscles are formed of two parts\#151 ; a central portion , which is granular , and is acted on in a peculiar manner by staining fluids ; and a peripheral portion formed of flattened epitheloid cells continuous with the reticulum .
The concentric corpuscles are concerned in the formation of blood-vessels and trabeculae .
The granular cells , giant cells , and concentric corpuscles , are almost entirely confined to the central portions of the follicles .
In fresh preparations , colourless nucleated cells are seen , which contain granules and spherules of haemoglobin ; these cells either form parts of the concentric corpuscles , or are in close connexion with them .
The blood-vessels of the cortical portions of the follicle are of small size ; they run in lines from the periphery of the follicle to the edge of the medullary portion .
The medullary portion of the follicle is surrounded by a ring of blood-vessels ; the vessels are larger in the medullary portion than in the cortical portion of the follicle .
III .
" On the Classification of Loci .
" By W. K. Clifford , F.R.S. , Professor of Applied Mathematics in University College , London .
Received April 8 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) " A curve , " is to be understood to mean a continuous one-dimen* sional aggregate of any sort of elements , and therefore not merely a curve in the ordinary geometrical sense , but also a singly infinite system of curves , surfaces , complexes , \amp ; c. , such that one condition is sufficient to determine a finite number of them .
The elements may be regarded as determined by h co-ordinates ; and if these be .
connected by h\#151 ; 1 equations of any order , the curve is either the aggregate of common solutions , or , when this breaks up into algebraically distinct parts , the curve is one of these parts .
In the paper , of which this is an abstract , theorems are established relating to the nature of the space in which such curves can exist , to the mode of representing them in flat space of lower dimensions , and to some of their properties .
The following are the leading theorems:\#151 ; I. Every proper curve of the nth order is in a flat space of n dimensions or less .
II .
A curve of order n in flat space of Tc dimensions ( or less ) may be represented , point for point , on a curve of order n \#151 ; + 2 in a plane .

