199 A New Apparatus for drawing Conic Curves .
By A. F. Dufton , B.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. C. V. Boys , F.R.S. Received February 21 , 1920 .
) 1 .
The attention of mathematicians has been attracted to the mechanical description of conic sections since the discovery of the curves by Menaechmus , but in the numerous mechanisms which have been invented only partial success has been attained .
In an early conograph , the invention of which is ascribed to the Arabs , the curve is the actual intersection of the surface upon which it is drawn with a straight line generating a cone .
Instruments of this kind were designed at the end of the sixteenth century for use in the construction of sundials .
Newton , in his ' Principia , '* discusses the drawing of conic sections and describes a mechanical method of plotting them .
Two angles are rotated about their vertices and the intersection of one pair of arms is kept upon a fixed straight line .
The locus of intersection of the other pair is a conic section .
Sylvesterf showed that a conic can be drawn by means of an apparatus of thirteen links .
His method fails to draw the curve at the vertex but is simpler than that of Peaucellier^ which involves the use of fifteen links besides a cross-piece rigidly attached to one of them .
Both these methods depend upon the principle of inversion .
A conograph based upon the constancy of the anharmonic ratio subtended at the tracing point by four fixed points on the curve was invented by Willy Jurges .
S In this instrument the use of eight sliding constraints makes smooth working difficult .
2 .
With the apparatus described in this paper , the conic is drawn as the polar reciprocal of a circle .
The circle to be reciprocated , of centre 0 and radius ON , is enveloped by a straight line AB .
The points A and B lie upon a fixed straight line at a distance ON from 0 and the paper containing the circle is rotated about 0 .
To the paper is fixed , at the centre of reciprocation , which becomes a focus of the conic , the joint S of a four-bar linkage .
Two equal bars SC and SD are hinged to the middle points C and D of equal bars ACP and BDP hinged together at P. This linkage has the property that P * ' Principia , ' Lib. I , Prob. XIY .
t ' Proc. Roy .
Inst. , ' vol. 7 , p. 179 ( 1873-75 ) .
X Ibid. S ' Zeitscbrift fUr Mathematik .
und Physik .
, ' vol. 38 , p. 350 ( 1893 ) .
VOL. XCVII.\#151 ; A. P Mr. A. F. Dufton .
is the pole of AB with respect to a circle of centre S and radius ( SO*\#151 ; CP3)2 .
For , if PK and CM be perpendicular to AB and SP respectively , SK , SP = ( SM\#151 ; KM ) ( SM + MP ) = SM2-MP2 = SC2-CP2 .
P therefore describes upon the paper the polar reciprocal of the circle of Fig. 2 .
A New Apparatus for drawing Conic Curves .
201 centre 0 and radius ON , that is a conic with focus S , axis SO , eccentricity OS/ ON and latus rectum 2 ( CP2\#151 ; SC3)/ ON .
3 .
The first model of the apparatus , constructed of " Meccano , " is shown in fig. 2 .
Wheels , running upon a horizontal rail , constrain the points A and B. The axis of the hinge P is a glass tube which , drawn to a point , serves as the drawing pen .
The paper is pinned to a drawing board , which can rotate in its own plane about a horizontal axis supported upon friction wheels .
As the board is rotated the pen traces upon the paper .
The latus-rectum , which depends upon the length ON , can be varied by vertical adjustment of the rail .
The eccentricity , OS/ ON , of the conic is determined , when the rail is fixed , by the " eccentricity , " OS , of the focus from the axis of rotation .
The curves shown in fig. 3 were drawn with this model .
In the remarkable Fig. 3 .
precision of even a roughly made instrument , in the tracing of the curve at one sweep and in the application to all conics from circle to straight line , the apparatus offers a satisfactory solution to a very ancient problem .
VOL. xcvn.\#151 ; a. Q

