]\gt ; On the action and Dispersion of aseous Nitrogen By CLIVE CUTHBERTSON , Fellow of University , London , MAUDE UTHBEIiTSON .
( Communicated by Alfred W. Porter , F.R.S. Received July 29 , 1913 .
The study of the refraction and dispersion of gaseous nitrogen peroxide is specially interesting , to the opportunity it affords for observing the changes which accompany the polymerisation of the molecule .
No previous determinations are recolded in the usual books of reference .
The gas which we used was prepared by } ) lead nitrate , which had previously been ground to fine powder and heated for two hours to 15 C. to expel moisture .
It was condensed in a bulb , and quantities of about a cubic centimetre of the liquid were off in lass tubes hich were broken vacuo in a dry bulb containing .
Taps usually lubricated with metaphosphoric aci but in some cases with a lnixture of pure paraffin and vaseline , which was not appreciably attacked by the Doas .
Apparatus a For the detern } ination of refractiye indices Jamin 's refr ctometer 1 used .
The bulb containing the liquid was connected with the ictonleter tnbe by a tap .
Another tap connected a manometer , consisting of -tubes in series , the first containing oil and the seconld long capillary separated the oil from the hich led to the In a measurement of the refraction the liquid was first cooled to C. , at which temperature its pressure is ible , and the whole apparatus was evacuated with a Topler pump , ] tubes containing soda-lime and potash and , till the difference of pressure shown by the manometer corresponded with the barolnetric height .
The manometer tap was then closed and the liquid allowed to warm , while the observer counted the interference bands passed the cross-wire as the vapour flowed into the refractometer tube .
When a convenient number had passed , the tap connecting the bulb of was closed , and dry ftir was admitted into the manometer till the pressure nearly eqUalled that of the nitrogen peroxide .
The manonleter tap was then opened , and the difference between the pressure of the atmospl ) and that of the gas was read .
VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; A. 2 362 Mr. C. Cuthbertson and Mrs. M. Cuthbertson .
The barometric height was again taken , the temperature observed , and the number of bands noted .
The density of the gas present in the refractometer tube was determined by means of a density bulb connected with it in parallel , and immersed in the same water-bath .
Owing to the strong absorption of the vapour it was found impossible to use the mercury green line for measurements of refraction .
For this purpose we used red light obtained by means of a fixeddeviation spectroscope , fitted with an adjustable slit at the eye end , which sifted out a band of light not exceeding 10 A.U. in width .
Even with this red light the maximum number of hands which could be counted when the vapour contained 96 per cent. of was only about 80 , so that great accuracy was not attainable .
Reduction of Observations .
Our object is to compare the refractive and dispersive powers of the of and respectively , and their relation to those of nitrogen and oxygen .
It is , therefore , necessary to reduce the refractivities experimentally observed at various temperatures and pressures to the same standard conditions as those under which the refractivities of the permanent gases are usually expressed .
These are , of course , the temperature and pressure of the gas should be C. and 760 mm. But in dealing with substances which are not perfect gases , it , is desirable.to substitute for these conditions the real standard which they are meant to define , viz. , that the number of molecules of the gas present in unit volume should equal the number of molecules present in unit volume of a permanent gas , e.g. oxygen , at C. and 760 mm. pressure .
In the present case the pressure and temperature of the gas were observed , and it was assumed , for the purpose of the reduction , that each constituent ( i.e. and ) behaved as a perfect gas , and that the mixture remained of the same composition .
Upon these assumptions the reduced refractivity , which we shall denote by , is given by * where is the number of interference bands , the length of the tube , and the temperature and pressure of the experiment .
of Gaseous 363 The observed density*of the was reduced in the same manner .
If denotes the observed density ( gram1nes per litre ) and the reduced density , The standard density for each constituent was obtained fro1n the ving figures : Gramnles .
Weight of 1 litre of nitrogen at .
and 76 cm .
oxygen , , Hence , , 1 , , and , , 1 , , 4.11622 We have thus obtained a reduced refractivity and a reduced density .
The former expresses the refractivity which would be given at C. by a gaseous mixture in the proportions of molecules of were those which exist at the temperature and pressure of the experiment , and for which the density WftS such that ) number of molecules present per cubic centimetre was equal to the number present in unit volume of oxygen at C. and 760 .
latter iyes us the weight of lluit volmne of the aseous mixture under the same conditions .
ning the additive law to hold for the aseous I , it is evident that if we plot the reduced refractivities ainst the reduced densities , we should obtain a line .
The values of the reduced refractiyities which correspond with the ndnrd densities of given above will be the refractivities of and the standard conditions .
Table I ives the results of ten experinnents the refraction .
* It may be asked why we did not use the observations of E. and L. on the connection between the density , temperature pressure of ( ' Wied .
Ann vol. 24 , p. 445 , and vol. 27 , p. 606 ) .
These were mined from observations nine temperatures nearly all above C. , and at the low tempel and it was necessary for us to use in order to obtain large } ) cntage of ) discrepancies between their observations and the values calculated from Gibbs ' formula are so great that it was impossible to use them for the calculation of tho density at inte1mediate temperatures and pressures .
Schreber ( ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem 1897 , vol. 24 , p. 660 ) has analysed the tions of the brothelB Natanson , and gives a formula from which the dissociation be calculated at any temperature and pressure .
Our iirst series of expeliments was based on the use of this formula , but after three months ' work it foumd it , too , is untrustworthy at low temperatures .
In fig. 1 the values for the reduced refractivity are plotted against the corresponding values for the reduced density .
* The points fall on a straight line which cuts the ordinate whose abscissa is at the point , and the ordinate whose abscissa is at the point 1123 .
The constants , calculated by the method of least squares , the following equation to this line : is , perhaps , not obvious why we should not obtain a similar straight line by plotting the experimental values of the refractivity and density instead of the reduced , , since the latter are both derived from the former by multiplying by the same factor .
But this is not so .
In any one gaseous mixture let there be molecules of and of .
Let the refractivities of one molecule of and one molecule of be denoted by and respectively , and that of the mixture by ; and let the molecular weights of the two constituents be We have , and , assuming the perfect gas law for each constituent , also whence Multiplying by we have ' a linear equation between the reduced refractivity and reduced density .
Dispersion of Gaseous itrogen Peroxide .
365 The discrepancies between the calculated and observed values of the refractivity are all less than per cent. , except in the last two experiFIG .
1.\mdash ; Reduced refractivity of nitrogen peroxide plotted against reduced density .
ments , where they are and respectively .
This was to be expected , owing to the low pressure and high temperature of the experiments , which increases the difficulty of the density .
Hence , finally , we obtain the reduced refractivity of pure for and for pure It thus appears that the refractivity of a molecule of exceeds that of two molecules of by about per cent. In order to check this result we tried the experiment of operating with a constant density of gas at different temperatures .
The gas was admitted to the tube in the usual way , and the pressure , temperature , and hands read .
The refractometer tube was then sealed off with as short a side tube as possible , and the tubes were heated and cooled in a water-bath , while the variation of the position of the bands was observed .
The results were as follows:\mdash ; Mr. C. Cuthbertson and Mrs. M. Cuthbertson .
As the temperature was raised the proportion of molecules of increased , while the density of the gas remained constant .
The diminution of the retardation of under these circumstances , which is shown by the retrogression of the bands , proves that the refractivity per molecule of is less than that of .
The rate of diminution is rather faster than we should expect from the results of the main experiment ; but the accuracy of this subsidiary form of experiment is seriously affected by " " drift\ldquo ; or " " end effects\ldquo ; owing to the of temperature , and the to be attributed to it , as a ntitative experiment , is small .
Relation to activities of Oxygen .
We have recently shown that the refractivities of ammonia , nitric oxide and nitrous oxide are greater than the sum of the refractivities of the elements which compose them by , 3 , and per cent. respectively .
* peroxide exhibits the same phenomenon .
The additiye value for is found from Half of this is and The sum is while the experimental value is , an increase of 21 per cent. DISPERSION .
Procedure .
Measurements of the dispersion are limited , by the absorption , to the red and green , and even in this region trustworthy values would be difficult to obtain were it not for the enormous dispersive power of the molecule of .
In order to trace the shape of the dispersion curve as it passes through the absorption bands it was necessary to abandon the monochromatic sources of light which are available when a cras is transparent * ' Phil. Mag April , 1913 , p. 592 .
Refractvon and Dispersion of Gaseous ogen Peroxide .
S67 to the whole spectrum , and to do the best which is possible with a narrow section of the spectrum of white .
In this case the source was a Nernst lamp .
The fixed-deviation spectroscope was fitted with an adjustable slit at the eye end , and the two slits were till the beam which the second slit did not exceed 10 .
in breadth .
The apparatus was evacuated and the optical paths of the two beams equalised by means of the compensatol , so that no moyement was seen in the position of the interference bands as the was continuously from to .
Gas was now admitted till a nunlber of hands had passed , when the supply cut off .
The compensator was then altered till the same number of bands had passed in the opposite direction .
If the wave-length drum is now rotated any change in the position of the band is due to ) difference of dispersive powers of glass and gas .
* Three sets of experiments were made ; the first , at the lowest temperature and highest pressure which could conveniently be used , so as to obtain the greatest proportion of molecules of .
The reduced density of this mixture was about , and the proportion of molecules of present was 765 per 100 molecules .
At an intermediate temperature and pressure a single experiment made on gas containing 48 per cent. of molecules of The third set was made at the highest temperature and lowest presstlle convenient , on gas containing approximately 4 per cent. of lnolecules of and 96 per cent. of The results are raphically in fig. 2 .
In the first set of experiments , in which the proportion of was small , the curve could be traced throughout its whole as far as It is comparatively smooth , but shows clearly the characteristic rise and elative fall on passing through each region of absorption .
In is shown the curve obtained with ,52 per cent. , but the final density of the gas was so great that much light was absorbed , an * The compensator was of special design and retards light of all wave-lengths equally except so far as dispersion affects them .
It consisted of two pairs of wedge-shaped pieces of glass , with their thick ends opposed , mounted vertically in a metal with their exterior surfaces at right angles to the beam of light .
Three of the wedges are fixed .
The fourth is movable vertically by means of a screw , and is mounted so that the distance between the interior surfaces remains constant .
Each of the two beams of light passes through one pair of wedges , which are optically equivalent to a plane parallel sheet of glass .
By screwing the movable wedge up or down , the path of one of the two beams is accelerated or retarded , and all wave-lengths equally , except so far as dispersion affects them .
Mr. C. Cuthbertson and Mrs. M. Cuthbertson .
only six points on the curve could be obtained , intermediate parts.-of the spectrum being obliterated .
Fig. 2 ( 3 ) gives the curve obtained from the third set of experiments , when 96 per cent. of was present .
It shows the increased size of the humps FIG. 2.\mdash ; Dispersion of nitrogen peroxide .
on the curve due to the increased percentage of , and ives a fair idea of the position of their maxima and minima .
But farther than this the accuracy of this series cannot be trusted .
In order to obtain readings between 6000 and 5600 , it was 1lecessary to reduce the number of bands to 17 , and even to 13 , and , under these conditions , an error of 1/ 30 of an interference band was equivalent to an error of in the value of the refractivity .
In the figure the three curves have about the same inclination to the horizontal .
But , since the refractivity diminishes as we pass from ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) , the dispersive power increases in the same order and proportion .
Refraction and Disper.sion of Nitrogen Peroxide .
369 It is well known that , with sufficient dispersion , at low tennperatures , the absorption bands of are seen to consist of fine lines , which blend into a band as the temperature is raised , , no doubt , if it were possible to trace our dispersion curve from line to line , a series small maxima would be shown .
Our apparatus is not capable of these microscopic changes , but only records the general effect in passing through a of absorption .
The most interesting question raised by these observations is the cause of the incl.ease of refractivity which accompanies polymerisation , coupled with the decrease of dispersive power .
It is much to be desired that measurements of the refractivity should be supplemented by accurate observations of the position of the absorption bands the infra-red and ultra-violet for each constituent separately .
So far as we can discover , no one has attempted this .
records that the is transparent between and 238 , but this appears to be all that is known .
We are much indebted to the Boyal Society for a yrant in aid of this work .
The results given aboye be summarised as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
The l.efractivity of pure for , reduced to standard conditions by the formula is approxilnately 0 That of pure is ) , so that the effect of polymerisation is to increase the refractivity by about per cent. 2 .
The refractivity of a molecule of is greater tlJan those of the elements of which it is connposed by per cent. 3 .
The dispersive power of a molecule of in the red and reen i considerably greater than that of a molecule of * Living and Dewar , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 46 , p. 222 .
Hartley , ' Chem. Soc. Journ , vol. 39 , .
Ill. VOL. LXXXIX .

