227 The Origin and Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
Part II.\#151 ; The Excretion of Cholesterol by the Dog .
By Charles Doree , Bindley Student of the University of London , and J. A. G-ardner , Lecturer on Physiological Chemistry , University of London .
( Communicated by Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. Received February 10 , \#151 ; Read March 12 , 1908 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University of London .
) In a former paper* we showed that the so-called hippocoprosterol , which was considered by its discovererst to be a reduced cholesterol , and the form in which the cholesterol of the bile of the horse is excreted in the faeces , is contained in the solid excreta of all grass-fed herbivorous animals , and that it is not a product of the animal metabolism , but a constituent of the grass taken as food and passed unchanged .
We also showed that cholesterol is not found in the faeces of these animals .
It therefore seemed to us desirable to extend the investigation to carnivora , and to ascertain , if possible , whether the cholesterol often found in their excreta is derived from the organism or from the food , and whether , under any circumstances , it is found in modified form as in the human subject .
Of the various animals the dog appeared to be the most suitable for initial experiments , as it is easily trained and will thrive not only on meat but on vegetable diets .
The animal selected for experiment was an Irish terrier bitch , between four and five years of age , and weighing 11*8 kilogrammes .
It was quiet and used to a sedentary life .
Preliminary experiments , using a mixed diet , showed that the quantity of cholesterol excreted per day was exceedingly small , much too small for even approximate estimation .
We therefore decided to keep the animal under observation for the greater part of a year , and to feed it on particular diets for many consecutive days , varying from 14 to 30 , according to circumstances .
We did not think it necessary at this stage of the enquiry to make any determinations on the nitrogen metabolism during the experiments , but we took great care to keep the animal in good health during the whole time , by regular exercise , periods of rest , etc. During a part of the time the dog was kept at Messrs. Ridler and Hobday 's establishment , and we take this opportunity of expressing our * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' this volume , p. 212 .
t Bondzynski and Humnicki , ' Zeit .
Physiol. Chemie,5 vol. 22 , p. 396 .
228 Messrs. Doree and Gardner .
Origin and [ Feb. 10 , thanks to Professor Hobday for the care and attention bestowed on the animal while there .
The faeces collected during each diet period were dried in the water oven , roughly powdered , and extracted thoroughly in a Soxhlet 's apparatus with ether .
The extract in dilute ethereal solution was then saponified by sodium ethylate , and the precipitated soaps filtered off and well washed with ether .
The ethereal filtrate so obtained was repeatedly shaken with water containing soda , to get rid of alcohol , some colouring matter , and excess of soap .
It was then dried and the ether distilled off .
The unsaponifiable matter differed widely with different diets in quantity and in character , being in some cases a viscid oil , and in others solid .
We hoped to be able to separate the cholesterol from this unsaponifiable matter by conversion into the dibromide , and taking advantage of the sparing solubility of the latter substance in petrol , but preliminary experiments showed that with the small quantities of cholesterol obtained the method was of no value from a quantitative point of view .
We found it better to crystallise fractionally from absolute or from 85 to 90-per-cent , alcohol .
The cholesterol was identified by microscopical examination , by the melting point after recrystallisation , and by conversion into the benzoate and the acetate .
It was found better to convert the smaller crops of crystalline matter at once into benzoate , as this substance is very sparingly soluble in absolute alcohol .
The acetate of cholesterol is readily prepared by boiling cholesterol with acetic anhydride and sodium acetate for a few minutes , pouring into water , and recrystallising from alcohol .
The benzoate can be prepared by heating to 140 ' for half an hour or more with benzoyl chloride , treating the product with hot alcohol , and recrystallising from alcohol .
We find , however , that it is a much better method in the case of cholesterol to dissolve this substance in pyridine in the proportion of about 1 gramme to 10 to 20 c.c. , add a solution of a little more than the theoretical quantity of benzoyl chloride in pyridine solution , and allow to stand for several hours .
The liquid is then poured into water , when the benzoate of cholesterol is precipitated , and may be recrystallised from absolute alcohol .
The yield by this method is quantitative .
The acetate of cholesterol melts at 114 ' C. , and on cooling shows colour changes if pure .
The benzoate melts at 145''5 C. to a turbid liquid , which suddenly becomes clear at 178 ' to 180 ' , and , in cooling , a brilliant display of opalescent colours is exhibited , among which a brilliant blue , appearing at about the temperature of the higher melting point , followed by a violet blue just before complete solidification , are most prominent .
These colour changes are well marked and very characteristic of cholesterol .
1908 .
] Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
229 The non-crystalline oily matters obtained from all the mother liquors in the above-mentioned fractional crystallisation processes were treated in pyridine solution with benzoyl chloride , in order to separate as benzoate any cholesterol that might have been retained in solution in the oils .
In a few experiments , small amounts of cholesterol benzoate were obtained in this way from these oils , but in most cases none was found .
The following is a brief account of the results of our experiments , using seven different diets:\#151 ; ( a ) Oatmeal Porridge and Milk.\#151 ; The oatmeal was well boiled with water containing a little salt , and milk added .
During 21 days the dog consumed 3865 grammes of coarse oatmeal\#151 ; or 184 grammes per day , and 2340 c.c. of cow 's milk , i.e. , 128 grammes per day .
During this period 1539 grammes of natural undried faeces were obtained .
On saponification in the manner described , a very large quantity of slimy soap was obtained , which was difficult to filter and wash with ether , and consequently had to be dried and re-extracted in the Soxhlet with ether .
The unsaponiiiable matter was obtained in the form of a red viscid oil , having a slight odour of peppermint .
This oil was for the most part soluble in hot acetone , leaving a small amount of red slimy matter .
On standing , the acetone deposited highly coloured and somewhat sticky crystalline matter .
This was recrystallised from alcohol , when 095 gramme of brown crystalline matter was obtained .
The alcoholic mother liquors , on standing , deposited some oily substance , and finally , on evaporating to small bulk , 0-35 gramme of sandy amorphous solid , which would not crystallise .
The 0'95 gramme of coloured crystalline matter was recrystallised several times from 85-per-cent , alcohol , and was eventually obtained in three fractions , white in colour , and melting respectively at 134 ' , 137 ' to 139 ' , and 132 ' to 133 ' .
The total weight was 0'5 gramme .
A microscopic examination showed that these crystals consisted entirely of cholesterol .
This was confirmed by conversion into the benzoate , which in each case melted correctly , and showed the colour changes in a well-marked manner .
All the mother liquors were evaporated to dryness , and gave a stiff red oil .
This dissolved for the most part in cold petrol , leaving 0*1 gramme of a red sandy solid melting at 120 ' to 130 ' .
On evaporating off the petrol , a viscid oil was obtained , which , on long standing , set to a crystalline waxy mass , weighing 1'25 grammes .
This wax was dissolved in ethyl acetate , and , on standing , long white needle-shaped crystals separated , mixed with red colouring matter .
The weight of crude crystals was 0'28 gramme .
They were rather difficult to purify , but were eventually obtained in the form of glistening pearly leaflets easily soluble in Messrs. Dorde and Gardner .
Origin and [ Feb. 10 , ethyl acetate , but insoluble , or difficultly soluble , in petrol .
This substance began to soften and sinter at 120 ' and melted sharply at 134 ' C. This was not cholesterol and was probably a phytosterol contained in the meal .
The mother liquors yielded no further crops of crystalline matter , and dried to a viscid oil , which , on standing , showed no sign of crystallising .
The yield of eholesterol was therefore about half a gramme or 0023 gramme per day .
( b ) Cooked Beef and Mutton.\#151 ; After the conclusion of the last experiment the dog was fed for a week or more on mixed diet , and given regular exercise , and appeared to be in good condition .
It was then fed for 20 days on cooked beef and mutton with an occasional bone .
The meat was fairly lean , but the fat was not specially taken out .
The total weight consumed during the 20 days was 7470 grammes , or 373'5 grammes per day ; 413 grammes of undried faeces were passed during this period , and , after treatment , yielded 2T grammes of unsaponifiable matter in the form of an oily solid .
This was dissolved in alcohol , partially decolorised with charcoal , and fractionally crystallised ; 0-615 gramme of crude cholesterol was obtained .
It was moderately pure , and , after recrystallisation from 85-per-cent , alcohol , melted at 135 ' to 138 ' .
It gave a satisfactory yield of benzoate which melted rather high , 147''5 , to a turbid liquid which cleared at 160 ' , and , on cooling , showed the colour changes in a well-marked manner .
The mother liquors deposited about 1 gramme of a brown sticky solid which would not crystallise .
It was treated in pyridine solution with benzoyl chloride , but gave no trace of cholesterol benzoate .
The yield of cholesterol was therefore about 0'615 gramme , or 0'037 gramme per day .
( c ) Sheep 's Brain.\#151 ; After the last experiment the dog was kept on mixed diet and allowed regular exercise for one month , when it was in excellent health .
It was now given a diet rich in fatty matter and cholesterol\#151 ; raw sheep 's brain\#151 ; which was continued for 14 days .
During this period the dog consumed 28 sets of brains , weighing in all 2129 grammes , and appeared to relish the food .
It was also allowed 170 grammes of bone ; 316 grammes of undried faeces were passed .
The unsaponifiable matter was obtained as a buttery mass , weighing about 30 grammes .
This , however , was not dry .
On crystallisation from alcohol , three fractions were obtained , weighing respectively 9-8 , 5'3 , and 1'2 grammes .
These were only slightly coloured and under the microscope appeared to consist entirely of long pointed needles : no typical cholesterol crystals could be seen .
Each fraction , after recrystallising once from alcohol , appeared pure , and melted at about 96 ' C. On a careful fractional crystallisation no trace of higher melting bodies could be obtained .
This coprosterol was saturated to bromine .
The acetate melted at 88 ' to .89 ' , and the benzoate at 122 ' to 123 ' to clear liquids showing no 1908 .
] Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
231 colour effects on cooling .
Three crops of crystals , examined with the polariscope in chloroform solution , gave the following results :\#151 ; ( 1 ) [ *]D = +23'-07 , ( 2 ) [ *]D = +23'-7 , ( 3 ) [ \#171 ; ]D = +22 ' .
It thus appears identical with the coprosterol of human faeces described by Bondzynski and Humnicki.* To confirm this point , the whole of the material was converted to the acetate , which was repeatedly crystallised from alcohol and acetone .
The highly pure ester was saponified with sodium ethylate in ethereal solution , and the product twice recrystallised from alcohol .
A sample of human coprosterol was similarly worked up and purified , and in the following table we give a comparison of their properties .
Coprosterol , dog .
Coprosterol , human .
Crystallises from alcohol in Melting point Long flexible needles Falls together at 98 ' ; melts , 99'\#151 ; 100 ' + 23 ' *7 Needles from alcohol ; m. p. , 88'\#151 ; 89 ' Leaves , difficultly soluble in alcohol ; m. p. , 122'\#151 ; 123 ' Long flexible needles .
Falls together at 98 ' ; melts , 99'\#151 ; 100 ' .
+ 23 ' *5 .
Needles ; m. p. , 88'\#151 ; 89 ' .
Leaves , difficultly soluble in alcohol ; m. p. , 121'\#151 ; 122 ' .
Eotation [ a]pin chloroform Acetate , Benzoate ( prepared by the pyridine method ) The mother liquors , on standing , set to a brown oily mass .
This was put on a porous the and the oily part drained away .
The dry solid matter was heated to 140 ' with benzoyl chloride , and then treated with hot alcohol .
It dissolved readily with the exception of a small quantity which was only got into solution with difficulty .
On cooling , about 0-2 gramme of white crystalline matter separated .
This was recrystallised from alcohol and melted at 141 ' to a turbid liquid , which on cooling showed the brilliant colours of cholesterol benzoate .
The mother liquors , on spontaneous evaporation , yielded a small quantity of brown crystalline matter .
This was very easily soluble in absolute and dilute alcohol , but was not further investigated .
The yield of coprosterol was thus 16 to 17 grammes , or 1*14 to 1*2 per day .
( d ) Cooked Horseflesh.\#151 ; After the last experiment the dog was allowed to rest for a month , and was then fed for a month on porridge made from coarse oatmeal , and water .
The product was unfortunately lost .
The animal was then given another month 's rest with an ordinary mixed diet .
At the end of this period it was fed for 17 days on cooked horseflesh with scarcely any fat .
In the middle of this experiment there was an interval of four days , , * ' Zeit .
Physiol. Chemie , ' vol. 22 , p. 396 .
Messrs , Doree and Gardner .
Origin and [ Feb. 10 , during which the dog had a diet of dog biscuit , but the faeces were not collected during this interval .
During the period it consumed 6758 grammes of meat , or 397 grammes per day .
With a view to sweeping out the gut at the end , it was fed for two days on bread and bovril ; 388 grammes of faeces were collected , which on drying at 80 ' weighed 155 grammes ; 3'47 grammes of unsaponitiable matter in the form of a red oil were obtained ; this was very liquid at 100 ' , and had a soapy smell .
With the exception of a little tarry matter this was soluble in alcohol , and , on evaporation , two crops of crude cholesterol were obtained , weighing respectively 067 and 0074 gramme .
This was identified by conversion into the benzoate , and the yields showed that it consisted practically entirely of cholesterol .
The mother liquors , on evaporation , yielded oil , which , on treatment with benzoyl chloride in pyridine solution , yielded 0'54 gramme of brown crystalline matter which , after recrystallisation from ethyl acetate , melted to a turbid liquid at 142 ' to 145 ' .
This cleared at about 180 ' , and on cooling showed the characteristic colour changes of cholesterol benzoate .
The total yield of cholesterol was , therefore , approximately 1 gramme , or 0'06 gramme per day .
( e ) White of Egg , Bread , and Cream.\#151 ; Immediately after the conclusion of the last experiment the animal was put on the above diet .
The daily ration was prepared by mixing about 150 grammes of bread with the whites of three eggs and half a teaspoonful of cream .
This was fried and moistened with a warm dilute solution of Liebig 's extract of beef .
This diet was continued for 14 days , during which the animal consumed 2092 grammes of bread and the whites of 42 eggs .
This proved a very nourishing diet , and at the end of the experiment the dog was in excellent condition ; 130 grammes of faeces were passed , and weighed , after drying at 100 ' , 35 grammes .
On saponification , the soap was white in colour and not large in amount .
The ethereal solution of the unsaponifiable matter was pale yellow , and on evaporation gave 0*59 gramme of a sticky yellow solid .
This , with the exception of a small amount of tar , was soluble in 90-per-cent , alcohol , and on cooling the solution set to a mass of crystals .
A small portion was examined under the microscope , and appeared to consist of small rosettes of needles , but no cholesterol crystals were at first observed .
On dissolving again on the slide and recrystallising , a small patch of typical cholesterol crystals was observed , but the bulk consisted of the rosettes referred to .
The total weight of crystalline matter was 0'3 gramme .
This was decolorised by animal charcoal , and crystallised from the least quantity of 85-per-cent , alcohol .
1908 .
] Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal .233 The first and main crop of crystals , after drying at 100 ' 0 .
, melted at 137 ' to 140 ' .
The acetate , after several recrystallisations , melted at 120 ' to 122 ' , and no colour changes were noticed .
The benzoate began to soften at 138 ' , and melted to a clear liquid at 142 ' to 143 ' .
On cooling , no colour changes could be observed .
The substance was probably sitosterol , derived from the bread .
The second and smaller crop from the mother liquors of the above was decolorised and recrystallised from alcohol .
This was not pure , and the quantity was too small for further purification .
It began to melt at 120 ' , but the process was not complete at 135 ' .
It was converted into the acetate , which after recrystallisation melted sharply at 113 ' to 114 ' C. This was probably cholesterol acetate , though no colour changes were noticed with certainty .
The soapy matter left on evaporating the mother liquors was treated with benzoyl chloride in pyridine solution , but no crystalline matter could be obtained .
In this experiment , therefore , only traces of cholesterol were obtained .
( f ) Oatmeal Porridge.\#151 ; As the dog at the conclusion of experiment ( e ) was in excellent health , it was at once put on a diet of porridge made from coarse oatmeal and water with a little salt .
This diet was continued for 31 days , during which the dog consumed 2870 grammes of oatmeal ; 212 grammes of dried faeces were obtained .
The ethereal extract , measuring about 1*5 to 2 litres , on saponification set to an almost solid mass of soap .
This , however , filtered easily , and was readily washed .
The unsaponifiable matter was a reddish brown oil , weighing 2*7 grammes .
Wit , h the exception of 027 gramme of tarry matter this was soluble in alcohol .
On standing , the solution deposited a slimy brown mud .
This was taken up in ethyl acetate , and , on standing , the solution deposited several crops of white needle-shaped crystals , the total weight being 0'255 gramme .
The ethyl acetate mother liquors , on spontaneous evaporation , yielded an oil .
The needle-shaped crystals were readily soluble in petrol and in alcohol , but did not crystallise readily from these solvents .
After several recrystallisations from ethyl acetate the substance was obtained in the form of long , flat , slender needles , which melted sharply at 133 ' to 134 ' C. The acetate began to soften at 70 ' , and melted to a clear liquid at 98 ' C. , but we had not enough for a satisfactory purification .
It was evidently the same as the phytosterol obtained in experiment ( a ) .
The alcoholic mother liquors from the above-mentioned muddy solid , on spontaneous evaporation , gave an oil through which crystalline matter was disseminated .
This was recrystallised from 85-per-cent , alcohol when 0'172 gramme of whitish crystals was deposited .
Under the microscope these were found to consist 234 Messrs. Dorde and Gardner .
Origin and [ Feb. 10 , .
of long hexagonal plates , and no typical cholesterol crystals were observed .
After recrystallising from absolute alcohol until quite white , the substance melted at 124 ' to 125 ' .
The acetate crystallised in microscopic plates , which melted at 118 ' to 122 ' .
These properties agree with those of the para-sitosterol of Burian .
All the mother liquors , from which the above-mentioned crystalline substances were obtained on spontaneous evaporation yielded viscid oils , which really constituted the bulk of the unsaponifiable matter .
In order to ascertain whether any cholesterol or other crystalline substances were held in solution in these oils , they were dissolved in pyridine and treated with benzoyl chloride .
After standing , the solutions were poured into water and the slimy deposits dissolved in hot absolute alcohol and left to crystallise .
One oil yielded 0'094 gramme and another O04 gramme of crystalline matter , difficultly soluble in absolute alcohol .
On purification , this was obtained in the form of glistening plates which melted at 145 ' to a turbid liquid .
This cleared at about 175 ' and on cooling showed the colour changes characteristic of cholesterol benzoate .
The mother liquors , on spontaneous evaporation , , dried to a viscid oil , which , on long standing , showed no sign of crystallising .
Only about OT gramme of cholesterol was therefore obtained in the month , , or 0-003 gramme per day .
( g ) liice , Gelatine , and Butter.\#151 ; After experiment ( f ) the dog was fed for four or five days on dog biscuit and porridge and given regular exercise , and as it appeared to be in good health , the final experiment was proceeded with .
Each day 's ration consisted of 114 grammes of rice , which was well boiled and mixed with 114 grammes of a 10-per-cent solution of gelatine and 28 grammes of butter .
The mass was flavoured with a dilute solution of Liebig 's extract of meat .
During 18 days the dog consumed 2052 grammes of rice , about 205 grammes of gelatine , and 504 grammes of butter .
The weight of dried faeces was 115 grammes .
1-316 grammes of unsaponifiable matter was obtained as a vaseline-like oil. .
This , with the exception of 0-06 gramme of tarry substance , dissolved in 50 c.c. of hot 90-per-cent , alcohol .
Three crops of impure crystalline matter were obtained , ( I ) 0-37 gramme ; ( II ) 0T6 gramme ; and ( III ) 044 gramme .
The mother liquors dried to an oil , which , on long standing , showed no sign of crystallising .
Crop I , after decolorising and recrystallising from 90-per-cent , alcohol , was obtained in the form of white crystals not unlike cholesterol in appearance .
On heating , these began to soften at 120 ' and melted at about 129 ' .
A microscopic examination showed that the substance was a mixture .
We tried to separate the substances by means of the benzoates .
The crude benzoate obtained by the pyridine method crystallised from alcohol , apparently 1908 .
] Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
235 in two forms , one light and floating in the liquid and the other granular and adhering to the sides of the beaker .
These were separated as far as possible and recrystallised separately .
The light form , after recrystallisation from alcohol , in which it was sparingly soluble in the cold , melted at 139 ' to a pale brownish liquid which was slightly turbid , but not so markedly as is usually the case with cholesterol benzoate and did not become any clearer at 170 ' to 180 ' .
On cooling , no colour changes were observed at the higher temperature , but at the point of solidification a transient lilac blue appeared , but was not well marked .
This substance might have been impure cholesterol benzoate , but we could not be certain .
The granular portion , which was the greater quantity , after recrystallisation shrank together at 138 ' 0 .
and melted sharply at 139 ' C. to a perfectly clear liquid .
It showed no colour changes and was not cholesterol benzoate .
Crop II was decolorised by charcoal and recrystallised from alcohol .
It began to soften at 120 ' and melted at 135 ' .
It was mostly cholesterol , for the benzoate made by the pyridine method melted at 140 ' to 143 ' to a turbid liquid which went clear at 178 ' and on cooling showed the colour changes in a well-marked manner .
Crop III was very impure and greasy .
It was therefore treated at once with pyridine and benzoyl chloride .
A minute amount of crystalline matter was obtained which melted at 145 ' to a turbid liquid and appeared to clear at 178 ' .
It was , however , yellow in colour , and we could not observe the colour changes .
The oils from the mother liquors were benzoylated , but no crystalline matter was obtained .
In this experiment , therefore , 0667 gramme of impure crystalline matter was obtained .
This contained some cholesterol , but we could not determine the amount .
We do not think that more than one-third of it was cholesterol , certainly not one-half .
The rest evidently consisted of phytosterols from the rice .
Discussion of Results .
Different observers have given very variable figures for the daily quantity of bile secreted by the dog , as the following table shows :\#151 ; Quantity of bile in grammes secreted per kilogramme-weight Observer .
in 24 hours .
Friedlander and Barisch ... ... ... ... 19'9 Bidder and Schmidt ... ... ... ... ... . .
24'5 Heidenhain ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
32'7 Dastre ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1(H ) VOL. lxxx.\#151 ; B. x Messrs. Doree and Gardner .
Origin and [ Feb. 10 , If we take the mean of the above results as approximately correct , the daily secretion of bile by our dog would be 291 grammes .
For the content of cholesterol in 100 parts by weight of dog 's bile , Hoppe-Seyler gives the following figures:\#151 ; ( a ) Bile from bladder .
( b ) Bile from fistula .
r_____A_____N / ______________________A_____ I. II .
I. II .
0-449 0-133 0-074 0-049 We do not know how far the bile poured into the gut would resemble either bladder bile or fistula bile , but , calculating on the basis of the lowest and highest values given , our dog should have received into its intestine , along with the bile , between 0'14 and 1-31 grammes of cholesterol per day .
If it be the case that cholesterol is a true excretion product got rid of in the feces through the agency of the bile , this quantity should have been found in the excreta along with that contained in the food consumed , whereas , as shown in the following table , in which we compare the amounts of cholesterol actually found in our experiments with those that should have been found on the assumption that the cholesterol of the bile is all excreted in the feces , the amounts found in most cases were less than one-fifth of the lowest of the above values .
It is clear from the above experiments that the whole of the cholesterol of the bile is not excreted in the feces .
It must , therefore , have been either totally destroyed , which , considering the great stability of cholesterol , is highly unlikely , or reabsorbed in the gut along with the bile salts , which is the more reasonable explanation .
It might be contended that the cholesterol had been changed in the intestine into the unsaponifiable oil found along with the cholesterol , but this is probably not the case , as the oils obtained were very variable , both in quantity and appearance , and further , the weights of such oils obtained were usually quite insufficient to account for the cholesterol .
How far the quantities of cholesterol found can be accounted for as cholesterol contained in the food and passed unchanged is more difficult to answer , as we have little exact knowledge of the cholesterin content of the various food stuffs .
In our opinion , however , it can be largely accounted for in this way .
Considering the two experiments with cooked meat , in which the cholesterol recovered for 20 days was only 0'6 and TO respectively , these amounts might well have been due to the food taken .
As is well known , animal flesh contains cholesterol , though quantitative estimations have , as far as we are aware , not been made .
Such estimations would be tedious and Diet .
* Total weight of solid food in grammes .
Number of days .
Total weight of faeces undried in grammes .
Total weight of faeces dried at 100 ' C. in grammes .
Total weight of unsaponifiable matter in grammes .
Total wTeight of cholesterol found in grammes .
Amount of cholesterol that should have been excreted from the bile on abo\e assumption .
Amount of cholesterol passed per day in grammes .
Output of cholesterol per day that should have been produced from bile only .
A. Oatmeal and milk 4147 21 1539 \#151 ; \#151 ; 0-5 2 -94\#151 ; 27 -5 0-023 0 14\#151 ; 1 -31 B. Cooked beef and mutton 7470 20 413 \#151 ; 2 1 0 615 2 -8 \#151 ; 26 -2 0-037 0T4\#151 ; 1'31 C. Raw sheep 's brain 2129 14 316 \#151 ; 30 0 ( not quite dry ) 16\#151 ; 17* 1 -9 \#151 ; 18 -3 1 -2* 0 -14\#151 ; 1 -31 D. Horseflesh 6758 17 388 155 3 -47 1 -o 2 -38\#151 ; 22 -27 0-059 0 -14\#151 ; 1 -31 E. Bread , white of egg , and cream 2092 and 40 egg whites 14 130 35 0-59 Trace 1 -9 \#151 ; 18 -3 Small traces 0 -14\#151 ; 1 -31 F. Oatmeal 2870 31 \#151 ; 212 2 -7 0-1 4 -34\#151 ; 40 -6 0-003 0 -14\#151 ; 1 -31 Or .
Rice , gelatine , and butter 2052 rice 205 gelatine 504 butter 18 115 1 -3 Not more than 0-3 2 -5 \#151 ; 23 -6 0-017 0 -14\#151 ; 1 -31 # Coprosterol , not cholesterol .
1908 .
] Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
237 238 Origin and Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
difficult to perform , as they would involve the artificial digestion of large quantities of material , for it has been shown that it is impossible to extract the whole of the fatty matter from meat without such digestion .
Furthermore , the quantities would probably have been variable .
In the two experiments quoted , however , the cholesterol found would only have meant , in the case of beef and mutton , a content of ( H)08 per cent. , and in the case of horseflesh of 0'015 per cent. In experiment ( f ) , with an oatmeal diet , we found only 01 gramme of cholesterol .
Whether oatmeal contains any traces of cholesterol we cannot say , but on extracting three days ' diet we were unable to recognise any in the unsaponifiable residue .
Taking this OT gramme as a basis for calculation in experiment ( a ) ( oatmeal and milk ) , the yield of cholesterol attributable to oatmeal would have been 0135 gramme .
Milk fat , according to Schmidt and Mulheim , A. Bonier , and A. Kersten , contains 0'5 per cent , of crude cholesterol , which Menozzi has shown to be identical with that of bile .
If we take our milk as containing between 3 and 4 per cent , of fat , the amount of cholesterol from this source should , have been for the quantities taken in experiment ( a ) between O'3 5 and 0168 gramme .
The total cholesterol to be expected would therefore be between 0-485 and 0-6 gramme .
We actually found about 0-5 gramme .
In experiments ( e ) and ( g ) the traces of cholesterol found could be accounted for as due to the food .
Experiment ( c ) , on a diet of sheep 's brain , is of special interest , not only because of the quantities obtained , but because the cholesterol was entirely in the form of coprosterol .
The brain substance is well known to be rich in cholesterol .
The human brain contains about 2 per cent. Whether the content of cholesterol in the brain of other animals is as high as this we do not know .
On the assumption that it is the same as in the human brain we should have expected in the faeces of a period of 14 days between 25 and 30 grammes of cholesterol .
We actually found 16 to 17 gr. of coprosterol .
There can be no doubt that this was due to the diet .
In man , according to Bondzynski and to Muller ( and in agreement also with our own experience ) , the change of cholesterol into coprosterol in the gut by bacteria , is the normal process , and if the gut is cleared of the particular bacteria by prolonged milk diet , cholesterol is excreted as such .
In the dog , fed on either cooked vegetable or meat diet , cholesterol is normally excreted as such .
In the case of raw brain we obtained coprosterol only .
The cause of this we must reserve for future investigation .
It may have had something to do with the fact that the food was uncooked , or that it was unusually rich in fat .
Unfortunately , we were unable to ascertain Bacteria as Agents in the Oxidation of Amorphous Carbon .
239 whether the state of the gut favourable to the formation of coprosterol persisted when the next diet ( oatmeal ) was tried , as , owing to an accident , the whole of the ethereal extract was lost .
In the subsequent experiment with horseflesh , the gut had recovered its normal condition .
Whether any of the cholesterol of the food is actually absorbed along with that of the bile in the intestine , these experiments do not show , but others are in progress , which we hope will throw light on this point , and this we hope to make the subject of a communication in the near future .
The expenses in connection with this work were defrayed by means of a grant made by the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society , for which we take this opportunity of expressing our thanks .
Bacteria as Agents in the Oxidation of Amorphous Carbon .
By M. C. Potter , M.A. , F.L.S. , Professor of Botany , Armstrong College , in the University of Durham .
( Communicated by J. B. Farmer , F.R.S. Received March 13 , 1907 , \#151 ; Received in revised form , with additional matter , January 18 , \#151 ; Read March 12 , 1908 .
) The problem which presented itself to my mind in commencing the following investigation was primarily one connected with agriculture .
When considering the application of such insoluble substances as charcoal , cinders , soot , etc. , to the land , an explanation was sought of their ultimate fate in the-soil .
What becomes of the carbon ?
Is it oxidised into C02 , and if so by what agency ?
Little is known at present as to the means whereby amorphous carbon is rendered available for plant life , except through its union with oxygen in the process of combustion , and further investigation upon this point offered an important field of enquiry .
It is well established that carbon readily absorbs oxygen , and , in the case of coal , that carbonic acid is given off , but the cause of the latter phenomenon is still obscure , and in the theories advanced to account for it no consideration is ever given to the possible action of micro-organisms .
My investigations have shown that under the action of certain bacteria a slow oxidation of amorphous carbon takes place , C02 is slowly evolved , and the carbon can thus be at once utilised for the nutrition of green plants .

