]\gt ; Colour-Blindness the Trichromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
Part III .
\mdash ; Incomplete Colour-Blincl ess .
By Sir W. DE W. ABNEY , K.C.B. , F.R.S. ( Received October 5 , \mdash ; Read November 2 , 1911 .
) The further the examination of partial colour-blindness is carried , the more apparent is the fact that what in Germany and elsewhere is called abnormal trichromatic vision is fully explained by the Young-Helmholtz trichromatic theory .
Personally , I have not met with an instance of congenital colour- blindness in which a full explanation of the variations from normal vision is not offered by it .
In my last paper on this theory I promised to give another method by which the amount of colour perception deficiency could be determined quantitatively .
The promise then made I will now fulfil .
When a patch of white light is shown to any of the complete or incomplete colour-blind they recognize it as their own white , though not infrequently when they observe it in contrast with another colour the latter will miscall it .
But , placed by itself , every person , colour-blind or not , will name it as white .
If we place three slits in the spectrum , one in the red , where it has been shown that only the red sensation is stimulated .
and another in the green , where the sensation curves tell us that all three sensations are excited , but the green mostly , and in excess of the other two , and the third in the violet , where ] the red and the blue sensations are stimulated , we shall be able , by collecting the rays and altering the apertures of the slits , to ) a mixture which will match the pure white when the two patches of light are placed side by side on a screen .
The colour patch apparatus , which I have described in other papers , is perhaps the simplest apparatus with which to compare the mixed lights with the white .
The normal eye will make his match which will be exact to him as his white .
If a completely red-blind ( the eye which sees a shortened spectrum ) is asked if the match is satisfactory to him , he will say that it is- .
The completely green-blind will give the same answer .
If the red slit*be completely closed the red-blind will see no difference in the match , for he has no red sensation which can be stimulated .
If , however , a partially red-blind person be asked if the normal eye 's match is exact , he will say it is not , but that the composite white is too *In this paper , as in others , the red , green , and violet slits are the slits through which the red , green , and violet rays pass .
Colour-Blindness Trichromatic of Colour Vision .
43 By opening the red slit , or closin , the green slit gradually , a point will be reached in which he says the match is exact .
To the normal eye the match will appear red .
If the widths of the slits be measured , both for the normal and also for the colour-blind , when the matches for hue to the one and the other are correct , and if both also match the respective luminosities of their composite light patches by opemng or closing the rotating sectors placed in the path of the white beam which forms the white patch we have , when the positions that the shts occupy the spectrum are known , a means of calculating the sensation deficiency in the partially colour-blind .
If the deficiency in the colour-blind person be in the green sensation the normal eye 's composite white will appear to him as too red .
By opening the green slit radually a width of slit will be found which makes the patch appear to the partially green-blind a match to the white .
To the normal eye it will appear green , more or less pronounced , according to the legree of lack of response to the stimulation of the green perceiving apparatus in the eye .
The slit apertures , and luminosity of the composite ' white are measured as before .
We will deal with the equations thus formed , which will be in the form of green ) ( violet ) ( white ) , first of all without reference to I will give two cases of this method of dealing with the equations .
The three slits were placed at S.S.N. ( the position of the red lithium line ) , at S.S.N. ( near the green Mg line ) , and at ( which is of less wave-length than G ) .
A normal eye formed an equation to match the hue of white 100 White .
For convenience in calculation we can convert the equation into another in which is 100 250 White .
The comparative luminosities of the rays passing through equal slits at the three points in the spectrum which they occupy were R. , G. V. .
In the red there is only red sensation .
In the green there are red , green , and blue sensations with luminosities of respectively , which make up the luminosity 43 .
In the violet ray the luminosity is , and is composed of 28 per cent. blue sensation and 72 per cent. red sensation .
We will next see how much white the reen ray contains .
This is best done by changing the ordinates of the three sensations in the green into ordinates of the three sensation curves of equal stimulation , that is , when 1911 .
] of Colour Vision The 26 white evidently does not alter the hue of the mixture which goes to form white .
The equation when converted into luminosities , neglecting the white , becomes R.S. R.S. G.S. R.S. B.S. R.S. G.S. B.S. \mdash ; R. G. In the case of a red-blind his mixture to match his white was White .
Again , making G. , we get R. G. Working this out into the normal luminosity of the sensations we get R.S. R.S. G.S. R.S. B.S. B. G. R.S. G.S. B.S. or To the same amounts of green the amount of red in the normal is to the red of the colour-blind as 3512 to 4750 ; that is , the colour-blind has only the normal R. sensation .
The figure obtained by the luminosity method described in my last paper was the same , viz. , It is to be observed that the result is obtained by considering the mixture from a normal eye point of view .
Presently we shall see that this is a perfectly legitimate aspect .
* In to the white in the green ray , it is present to the colour-blind as it is to the normal vision , though it is different in hue , but like the white he matches , and consequently differs in luminosity , but as it has , as in the case of the normal eye , no effect on the resulting hue , it is not taken into account .
It has to be remembered that to get sensation curves of equal areas for the colour-blind , the factors have to be increased for the * The mixtures are first found by measuring the apertures of the slits when a match to white is made by the colour-blind .
It is then converted into luminosities to the normal eye scale .
Whichever sensation is in defect has really to be multiplied by a factor , and that factor is ascertained by making ( say ) the green sensations equal as just given .
Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness and the [ Oct. 5 , green curve in the case of partial green-blindness , and a factor has also to be introduced for the red curve in the case of partial red-blindness .
Another case is one of green-blindness , which will be the second example of this method of treating the equation .
The observer is a case of interest , as he has often been.quoted as an example of abnormal trichromatic vision .
The measures were taken in the presence of Dr. W. Watson , F.B.S. , with the colour patch apparatus .
The equation of for white was 98 ( V.)White .
Treating this equation as before , we find that to a normal eye the equation in luminosities becomes 1926165516 .
In this case , to get the green sensation present in the colour-blind eye , we must divide 's .
( red sensation ) by the normal red sensation or closely of normal G.S. 's luminosities at five different places in the spectrum ( see previous paper for method ) gave a mean value of This shows that the " " white\ldquo ; equations treated this way give trustworthy measures of deficiencies where the factors are not small .
[ I will here interpolate a caution as to the luminosity method of getting the factor of deficiency where there is a suspicion that the macula lutea is very highly or very little pigmented .
It is safe in such cases to confine the luminosity measures to S.S.N. 's greater than 42 or 44 .
With lower S.S.N. 's the question of pigmentation may cause a difference in the factors obtained .
The last case , it may be mentioned , is an example of this .
The pigmentation of 's macula lutea was far above the ordinary tion .
] This method of treatment of the white equations is , then , exact within limits .
So long as the factor for the sensation is not below , it may be followed , but below that point there may be erroneous estimates derived from the calculation .
I have shown elsewhere that the normal eye cannot detect within 2 per cent. of excess of a colour matched to a white , and guard had to be taken against this in forming colour equations , to ascertain the spectrum colour sensation curves for the normal eye .
There is reason to believe ( I will not now enter fully into details on which I base my belief ) that for small sensation factors a much larger quantity of colour may be added to this white , and of white to the colour , than can be added by the normal eye without detection .
It has already been pointed out that , to a completely red.blind , the match to the normal eye is satisfactory , although it is just as satisfactory to him if the red slit be closed .
Indeed , any amount 1911 .
] Trichromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
of red may be added to his white without the match .
We can understand that , with an eye which only has , say , , an almost equal amount of red might be added to the white and not be perceived .
As the factor increases , the amount of white that can be added to the red , or of red to the white , without altering the hue , will be less\mdash ; and so also with the green sensation .
It seems that the ordinates of a curve that may represent the that can be added may probably be calculated from the ordinates of an hyperbola .
Whatever may be the reason of the want of perception of the added colour we know that the want exists , and the second method of treating the equation gets over any difficulty on this account .
The method is a combination of the first method with that of the Iuminosity method .
If when the white is matched in hue by the colour-blind , he is also required to make a determination of the luminosity of his composite white , and if the normal eye also takes a measure of the luminosity of the colour-blind composite white , or takes a measure of the luminosity of his own composite white , there are sufficient data with which to calculate the sensation deficiency .
It should be noticed that the luminosity of a composite white }ainst a pure white is very easily measured .
There is no difficulty in it , though it may exist to some observers when the luminosity of a colour against white has to be determined .
We will suppose that the following equation has been made by blind : of sectol to the colour-blind , and that to the nolmal eye it has a luminosity of .
It is only necessary to take into account the luminosities of the red and green sensations , since those of the blue sensation are very small compared with them .
Let us turn the colours into sensation luminosities , this time not calculating out the white in the green ray , and the equation becomes to the normal eye being the factor which makes Using for the green-blind equation we have , but to the colour-blind is dependent on the area of his total luminosity curve , which is smaller than the area of the normal luminosity curve of the spectrum .
Let A be the area of the uormal ]uminosity curve , and the area of the -blind luminosity curve .
To make balance the composite white to the normal eye the left-hand Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness the [ Oct. 5 , members of the equation must be multiplied by , and calling the factor of the green deficiency for the colour-blind , we get For our purpose we must convert the equation into the " " language\ldquo ; of tue normal eye : would become We can multiply both sides by and we get B.S. G.S. If the value of A be 10 , i.e. , is If the deficiency were in the red sensation The value of may be determined , we said before , by the normal eye measuring his composite white against the same white patch which the colour-blind matched .
It will be noticed that is determined regardless of the true amounts of R.S. .
on the left-hand side of the equation .
The following is an example of what may be called a glaring case of an untrue equation being formed by a nearly completely red-blind person ( S ) .
The mean of two of his equations was 30 of sector in white .
We may neglect the luminosity of the blue sensation and use only the red and green .
Converting the above into luminosities of B.S. and .
( in this instance not taking away the white which is in the green ray , as all its components of red and green sensations are required ) , viz. , and ( see ante ) , and , found from a n , ormal vision equation that , we get , G. R.S. or These numbers are derived from the luminosity sensation ( and G ) curves of the light used in these measures .
1911 .
] Trichromatic Theory of Colour vision .
From this we get nearly , or S. possesses about of the normal R.S. the first method of the equation he would have been supposed to have .
His R.S. calculated by the luminosity method given in my last paper was closely .
A case of green-blindness ( Wn .
) , which gave a fairly large deficiency by the luminosity method , is now given .
His equation to white was 30 white .
At the same time , and the same comparison white beam , a person having normal vision found an equation which gave a factor for the white* [ of 67 .
Applying this factor to Wn. 's equation , we get as the luminosity equation R.S. G.S. 1048493 of normal G.S. His factor of G.S. obtained by the luminosity method was about If we treat Wn. 's equation by the first method , we a factor of These two cases confirm what has been said as to non-recognition of white or colour when added above the 2-per-cent .
limit .
When there is a large deficiency of a colour sensation , the composite white such colour-blind persons would form to match the comparison white indicates to the normal eye the likelihood of the deficient sensation added without being perceived .
To the normal eye the composite white of the deficient green-blind appears as a slightly pale purple , and of the largely deficient rod-blind a slightly pale sea-green .
[ In the examples given , the position of the green slit is not the best one to use , as the ray , besides the white , contains both green and red sensations .
The ideal position is that the ray which passes this slit should only be composed of white and sensations .
The position on my standard scale with the arc light and horizontal carbon is close to S.S.N. 36 .
In any case it is preferable that the ray should contain white , green , and a little blue sensations rather than white , green , and red sensations , as the latter imposes a limit on the green sensation factor .
In the position S.S.N. which the slit has occupied in the above examples the lilnit of the factor is about .
For the red deficiency there is no limit using that position .
] * It is not possible so far to always have an equally luminous white day by day ; it varies according to circumstances , but remains constant during the time the instrument is working , no part of the adjustments being altered .
I am in hopes that any variation in this comparison light be got rid of , as it would be a saving in time .
VOL LXXXVI.\mdash ; A. Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness and the [ Oct. 5 , A favourite plan in Germany for a semi-quantitative measure of colour sensation deficiency is that which I believe originated with Lord Rayleigh .
This method is one of mixing red and green to match the sodium of the spectrum .
There are special instruments extant for this purpose , and note is directed to be made of the quantities and intensities of each colour which is required to give a match to this light , but I am unaware of any means by which the factor of deficiency can be ascertained , though it is now easy to give such a scale when the positions of the red and the green in the spectrum are known .
If we place two slits in the colour patch apparatus in the same positions that we have already used in the red and the reen , we can form a very close approximation to the sensation deficiency by the match made of the light .
The match made will be of the same hue as the light when a little white is added , for there will be white mixed with the match and the white will be the colour of the light forming the spectrum .
In a communication I made to the Royal Society , and which appears in the 'Proceedings , ' I called attention to the fact that from the scarlet to the yellow the addition of white to a colour made its hue yellower , and from the blue-green to the green the same " " yellowing\ldquo ; of hue was apparent .
In matching the light with a green ( every green contains white ) and a pure red the true proportion of R.S. and G.S. in the match will not be quite identical with those in the light itself .
If the colour to be matched be at S.S.N. of my scale , which is where the red and green curves of equal areas cut , there will be no difficulty experienced , since at that point no in hue is found when white light is added to it .
So far this applies to the arc light .
If , however , a light such as the paraffin light is employed as the source for the spectrum , the red and green curves of equal areas will cut very close to in the spectrum , and the white light existing in the green ray , wheIl calculated out , as I have done it for the arc light , will be very nearly the hue of the light , so that there will be no shifting of hue .
It is necessary to mention this , as if the match is to be used for ascertaining colour sensation deficiency , the sensation curves for the light source must be employed in the calculations .
A gauge of accuracy measurement is the closeness with which the mixture of red and green made by a normal eye shall give the hue and the proportion of sensations existing in the light .
My own mean equation for the light with the shts in the same position as before is 447 G. light .
1911 .
] Theory of Colour Vision .
This when worked out with luminosities gives a percentage value of 7723 , as contained in the mixture neglecting the white .
is very slightly ( 03 ) less red than is contained in the light , and is to be accounGed for by the white existing in the green ray .
There is in these equations , as in the equations for white light , the same possibility of their failure when the sensation factor is small owing to the non-perception of added colour , if the luminosity of the light ( or other selected ray ) be measured against the mixed colours , the difficulty , as before , vanishes .
The methods described have depended on measurements made in the spectrum itself , but I wish to call attention to another source of measures which can be used without the spectrum apparatus .
It is true that its accuracy in the first instance depends upon measurements made in the spectrum , but when once made the amount of colour sensation can be determined without further reference to it .
I allude to the colour-disc equations .
Given three discs of equal diameter ( say 4-inch ) , capable of interlacing and of being rotated , one of which is painted with a red pigment , another with a green pigment , and the third with a blue pigment , by altering the angles of the interlacing discs a grey can be formed on their rotation , and this can be matched by a white and a black disc of say 6 inches .
diameter also rotating on the same spindle .
Of course there is nothing new in this method , but I venture to think that the method of treating the equations given by the colour discs will be found new in some details .
I would point out that colour discs can be used in any light , but that to be really useful for calculation the kind of light should be known .
The colours of the discs themselves are the only part of the apparatus which requires careful measurement , and this must be done in the spectrum .
The composition of the colours must be ascertained in terms of the three-colour sensations , and the luminosity of the colours must also be known .
The former and the latter will both vary according to the nature of the light in which they are viewed .
We may proceed in ascertaining the composition of the pigment colours by the method I give in my paper , pp. 351\mdash ; 353 , in the ' Phil. Trans The compositions the pigments are there given for the light of the electric arc , but when the luminosity curve of the spectrum of any other light is known the sensation luminosities in the pigment colours can be at * I have often seen very widely different .
equations formed by the same observer when matches of the light are made .
' ' Nodified Apparatus for the Measurement of Colour Sir W. de W. Abney .
ndness the [ Oct. once calculated from the table at p. 344 , or from that given in this paper , when the amount of each ray which is reflected from the pigmented surface has been measured .
Such a method also gives the luminosities in terms of the total white light used to form the spectrum .
This is an exact method , but a somewhat long one , but it tells more about the pigment than is necessary to know for the purpose that is in view .
All we require to know , as said before , is the sensation luminosity composition and the total luminosity .
The former we can arrive at in a very simple manner .
Let us place a square piece of the pigmented paper in the colour patch apparatus , and side by side with it an equal square of a white surface .
Let the pigment patch be ated by the light in which the discs are to be used , say , gaslight , incandescent light , etc. ( is out of the question , as it is so variable in quality ) , whilst the other is illuminated by the light coming through the three slits in the spectrum , as has already been described .
By placing a rod in the path of the beams the two illuminations may be separated , but can be caused to touch one another .
All we have to do is to match the colour of the pigment as seen in the light by which it is illuminated with the mixture of the rays coming through two three of the slits .
Having done this , the width of slits must be measured as before .
When converted into luminosities , and the luminosities into the respective sensations existing in the rays , the amount of the stimulated by the pigment can be calculated .
* By making the patches equally bright the relative luminosities of the pigments compared with white can also he ascertained with great exactitude if the pigmented paper is removed and a second square of white paper is substituted for it and the light itself matched .
The sensation values of the three coloured eliscs for the light in which they are to be viewed will now be known , as also the luminosity .
To use the discs to true equations the illumination must be that of the same kind of light in which these are determined .
It will not do , for instance , to use the values obtained for the arc light in daylight or in gaslight .
If an incandescent light ( say ) is used for the illumination of the pigment during measurement the discs must be rotated in the same light .
Stress is laid on this , as it is not uncommon for those using colour discs to be lax as to the light they use .
The three discs are placed on the spindle of the whirling apparatus ( I use a small motor for the purpose ) with the interlaced black and white discs behind them .
The coloured discs are altered till a grey is obtained *It may be stated that the two methods of finding the sensations are practically identical .
1911 .
] Trichromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
5 3 which matches the grey of the rotating black and white discs .
* The angular apertures of the exposed parts of the several discs are all measured and the values recorded as reen blue hite black .
The amount of white reflected from the black is measured , and if be the factor the white becomes It is essential in some cases that both the greys should be of exactly the same brightness .
( It need scarcely be said they should be identical in hue .
) Everything depends , for a true determination of the amount of colourindness , on the true matches being made , It may here be emphasised that both luminosity and sensation composition will vary in every light , so that exactitude of match in any light but that in which the measurements have been made is labour thrown away .
I will now give examples of the mode in which the equations should be treated .
The treatment will be identical with that just given .
The in which the rotation of the discs was made is the naked arc light , and all the measures were made in that light .
The following is the equation which I made with the discs:\mdash ; 126 green blue white ( i ) and the black reflected just 5 per cent. of white light , so that the equation on the right-hand side becomes , or The composition of the vermilion-red I had found to be ( in terms of the luminosity of the whole spectrum , and which equalled in area 866 on an empyric scale ) R.S. G.S. White .
, ( ii ) the emerald green was and the blue Multiplying the equation ( i ) by the appropriate factors in ( ii ) , ( iii ) , and ( iv ) , and dividing by 36 we } .
White .
8.55 , * It is well that the matches should be made with the light falling perpendicularly on the and the observer being as nearly as possibls facing them .
Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness the [ Oct. 5 , which when added together R.S. G.S. B.S. White .
Dividing this equation by 866 we get the sensation-luminosities for the mixed colours R.S. G.S. B.S. White .
The ratio of .
to G.S. is 67 to 33 , which is closely that obtained from the spectrum equation , so that my equation derived from the discs may be taken as the normal vision equation .
We do not need to refer to the right-hand member of the ion , but if we take it as 93 the luminosity of the white exposed is 93/ 360 of l , or It will be seen that the luminosities agree to within the third place of decimals .
When a colour-blind person is tried in bhe same his equation is 210 green blue Taking the luminosities of the red , green , and blue as before we get , when multiplying them by the equation numbers , and ( iv)-:360 . .
White .
Dividing by 866 , as before , we get Total R.S. G.S. B.8 .
White .
luminosity .
R.S. is to G.S. as to 33 , the normal equation being as 67 to 33 .
The of red blindness is given by or We may now examine the member of the equation , which is the white in the outer two discs of black and white .
It is 77 , and with the light reflected the black becomes 91 , and We may now subtract the white of the left-hand member from it , and we the following equation left : R.S. .
( R.B. , white ) .
where is the R.S. factor .
As in the second method of using the spectrum equations for the colour blind , we multiply by , as is the normal relation of R.S. to G.S. This worked out gives .
Another colour-blind makes the same equation match with 72 white .
1911 .
] Tnchromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
Proceeding in the same manner we get R.S. G.S. B.S. G.S. of the normal luminosity .
We see , then , that where there is a deficiency in the mixtures due to causes already pointed out , the degree of colour-blindness can still bs calculated out , always supposing that black and white mixture is to the observer a perfect match to the inner grey given by the discs .
The question of other illumination need not be entered into by examples .
They would be carried out in exactly the same manner as that indicated .
The use of colom discs to form equations , as before said , has been known , but I ventul'e to think that the method of the equations in the manner indicated gives them a new value .
As the equations from these give such accurate results , it may be that those interested in colour vision use them .
Let the light used to view the rotating discs matched with the outer grey be , say , the light of an incandescent lllatltle burner , in front of which is a palish yellow glass or cell containing potassium chromate saturated solution , then any difficulty about the amount of pigment in the macula lutea will be reduced to a minimum .
If the three colours be matched by a red , green , and blue* ( passing ) rough three slits ) of known luminosities and known sensation composition when they the ments ) are illuminated by this same light , it would not be impossible to make a scale for both red and green blindness .
If the of the three colours in the discs be calculated out for the different degrees of colour-blindness , say , for , etc. , red sensation , and the same for the green sensation , and also the angle which the whites in the outer ring should have for the same degrees of colour-blindness , miuiature set of 20 discs could be prepared , each representing the 20 factors of .
By a not very difficult arrangement all the discs might bo rotated together , and the colour-blind person would be asked to pick out that one which seemed to him the most perfect match in colour and brightness .
At once the examiner would be able to ascertain the factor ( to the first place of decimals ) of the deficient sensation .
I have mentioned this idea , as it is not everyone who has a complete spectrum apparatus for forming equations , but he obtain the colour di scs from some of the firms which supply ophthalmic apparatus if enquired for .
I may finally mention that colour equations to match a yellow pigment The blue probably not be required .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
A Chemically [ Oct. 11 , can be formed in the same way as for the white , but it entails not only ablack disc in outer ring , but also a white disc , for the mixed colours in the inner discs contain as a rule more white than does the yellow .
It was my intention to have mentioned in this communication the question of the colours which the incompletely colour-blind see , or say they see , but , as the foregoing results are based on measures of colours and not on the colours themselves , I have reserved this subject for possibly another communication .
A Chemically Active Modi.fication of Nitrogen produced by Electric Discharge .
\mdash ; II .
* By the Hon. J. STRUTT , , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received October ll , \mdash ; Read November 9 , 1911 .
) 1 .
Behaviour with Oxygen and Hydrogen .
It was noticed that oxygen destroyed the afterglow .
There is no doubt whatever that this is a positively destructive effect , as opposed to a mere dilution .
For if a stream of oxygen is admitted through a stopcock into the stream of glowing nitrogen , the glow is extinguished : replacing the oxygen with an equal ( inert ) nitrogen feed , the glow reappears , only slightly weakened by dilution .
No oxidation of nitrogen accompanies the destruction of the glow .
The mixed gases were passed through a -tube cooled in liquid air for half-anhour .
No deposit could be seen in the tube .
The condensed gases from the -tube ( if any ) were collected through a Topler pump on warming up .
Nothing was collected beyond about .
of nitrogen , which was presumably derived leakage , since liquid air could not have condensed it .
Any oxide of nitrogen except nitric oxide would be completely collected in the cooled tube .
Nitric oxide , if it had been formed , would have been further acted on by the active nitrogen , forming nitrogen peroxide , which would have been at once detected . .
It can only be concluded that the destruction of active nitrogen by oxygen is catalytic , and analogous to its * In continuation of the Bakerian Lecture for 1911 , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 85 , p. 219 .
, p. 224 .
, p. 227 .

