A paper was also read , entitled " On the connexion of the anterior columns of the Spinal Cord with the Cerebellum ; illustrated by preparations of these parts in the Human subject , the Horse , and the Sheep .
" By Samuel Solly , Esq. , Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology at St. Thomas 's Hospital , M.R.I. , Fellow of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society , and Member of the Hunterian Society .
Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. The exact line of demarcation between the tracts of nervous matter , subservient to motion and to sensation , which compose the spinal cord , has not yet been clearly determined .
The proofs which exist of a power residing in the cerebellum which regulates and controls the 2h actions of muscles , wculd lead us to suppose that the fibres of the motor nerves are continuous with those of the cerebellum ; but hi ?
therto no observations have been made which prove the existence of this connexion ; and it is the object of the author , in this paper , to establish , by a more careful examination of the anatomical structure of this part of the nervous system , such continuity of fibres between the anterior columns of the spinal cord and the cerebellum .
The corpora pyramidalia have been hitherto considered as formed by the entire mass of the anterior , or motor columns of the spinal cord ; but the author shows that not more than one half of the anterior columns enters into the composition of these bodies : and that another portion , which he terms the antcro-lateral column , when traced on each side in its progress upwards , is found to cross the cord below the corpora olivaria , forming , after mutual decussation , the surface of the corpora restiformia ; and ultimately being continuous with the cerebellum .
These fibres are particularly distinct in the medulla oblongata of the sheep and of the horse .
The author conceives that the office of the antero-lateral columns is to minister to the involuntary , as well as to the voluntary movements : that the facial nerve arises from both the voluntary and involuntary tracts ; and that the pneumogastric nerve arises both from the involuntary and the sensory tracts .

