155 Electric Furnace Reactions under High Gaseous Pressures .
By R. S. Hutton and J. E. Petavel .
( Communicated by Professor A. Schuster , F.R.S. Received January 31 , \#151 ; Read March 7 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper gives an account of a detailed study of a number of electric furnace reactions .
The object in view was to investigate the effect of wide variations in the physical conditions .
The experiments were carried out in an air-tight enclosure and , by analysis and measurement of the gaseous as well as of the solid products , every reaction was followed in detail .
A careful measurement of the total energy supplied to the furnace was also made , and the calculated yields per kilowatt hour will be found recorded in the appendix .
Special attention was paid to the effect of the pressure and nature of the gaseous atmosphere in which the reaction was carried out .
The principal processes studied are\#151 ; the formation of calcium carbide , carborundum , and nitric acid , the direct reduction of alumina by carbon , and the fusion of quartz .
A full description is given of the two pressure furnaces in use , as also of the power plant , gas compressing plant , etc. The power employed in the case of the larger furnace was generally 10 to 15 K.W. The furnaces consist essentially of strong steel enclosures provided with the necessary valves , windows , and insulated electrode holders .
Inside these pressure chambers any desired arrangement for arc or resistance heating could be mounted .
The currents used ranged up to 1000 amperes , and special fittings were also provided for very high tensions ( 25,000 volts ) .
Working pressures up to 3000 lb. per square inch were frequently employed , the apparatus being also suitable for use as a vacuum furnace .
The capacity of the larger enclosure was 20 litres , that of the smaller being about one-tenth of this .
Some preliminary experiments dealt with the electrical constants of carbon and metal arcs in air , hydrogen , carbonic acid , nitrogen , and coal gas , which are compared with similar values under ordinary atmospheric conditions .
Tables and curves giving the relation between the E.M.E. , current , and length 156 Messrs. R. S. Hutton and J. E. Petavel .
Electric [ Jan. 31 , of the arc are given .
Marked differences are noticeable in the character of the discharge in neutral and oxidising atmospheres .
The effect of pressure upon the rate of oxidation of heated metals is also considered .
The formation of calcium carbide is the first electric furnace reaction to be studied .
A vertical smothered arc was used , the charge for each experiment amounting to about 10 kilogrammes of lime and carbon , an ingot of carbide weighing about 1 kilogramme being produced .
The experiments were carried out in an atmosphere of carbon monoxide , ( b ) of coal gas , ( c ) of hydrogen at pressures ranging from 7 to 1700 lb. per square inch absolute .
Among the conclusions arrived at the following may be quoted:\#151 ; 1 .
Contrary to the views usually held , the pressure of an atmosphere of carbon monoxide during the reaction does not appreciably decrease the yield .
2 .
If the carbide is cooled in an atmosphere of carbon monoxide , a back reaction occurs at about the freezing point of the substance .
The effect is , however , limited to the surface of the ingot , and when working on a large scale this does not seriously alter the weight of product obtained .
The fusion of quartz under pressure was next undertaken ; the experiments were carried out in air and in hydrogen at pressures up to 2500 lb. per square inch ; they showed inter alia a marked decrease in the vaporisation of the fused product , but no appreciable increase in its fluidity and transparency .
It is generally accepted that carborundum results from interaction of silica vapour and carbon .
The diminished vaporisation of silica , noted above , accounts for the very limited formation of carborundum which occurs under pressure ; the proportion of the amorphous variety was also much lower than is usually the case .
The difficult problem of the direct reduction of alumina by carbon resulted in a lengthy and detailed research .
Briefly stated , the conclusions arrived at are:\#151 ; 1 .
That metallic aluminium can be produced by a purely thermal reaction .
2 .
That the lowest temperature at which this reaction can take place coincides with the melting point of alumina .
3 .
That the metal is first produced in the form of vapour .
Under ordinary conditions , however , carburisation immediately occurs by the interaction of the metal vapour with the carbon monoxide .
To collect the pure metal , two precautions are found to be necessary : ( 1 ) The carbon monoxide must be diluted and removed .
( 2 ) The vaporisation of the metal must be limited by operation under high gaseous pressures .
1907 .
] Furnace Reactions under High Gaseous Pressures .
157 In certain experiments quoted , a small quantity of aluminium ( 40\#151 ; 50 grammes ) was collected , and the working of the process on a large scale is chiefly a matter of the arrangement and construction of the furnace .
The only gaseous reaction referred to in detail is the formation of oxides of nitrogen .
Two distinct series of experiments were carried out : For the first , a high tension ( 25,000 volt ) transformer was employed in conjunction with the smaller furnace .
In the second series , a more powerful but lower tension arc discharge was spread out by a mechanical interrupter actuated by a small air turbine placed inside the larger furnace .
Both series show an increase of efficiency attributable to pressure .
The paper is illustrated by some figures , and followed by an appendix giving a summary of the numerical results .
VOL. lxxix.\#151 ; a. M

