II .
" Preliminary report , " by Dr. WILLIAm B. CARPENTER , V.P.R.S. , " o of Dredging Operations in the Seas to the North of the British Islands , carried on in Her Majesty 's Steam-vessel 'Lightning , ' by Dr. CARPENTER and Dr. WYVILLE TIIOMSON , Professor of Natural History in Queen 's College , Belfast .
" Received October 22 , 1868 .
In accordance with the request of the President and Counlcil of the Royal Society , conveyed in the Letter written by their direction to the Secretary to the Admiralty on the 18th of June ( Appendix ) , the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty were pleased to give their sanction to the scheme for Deep-sea Dredging therein proposed , and to furnish the means of carrying it out as effectively as the advanced period of the season might permit .
2 .
The Surveying-ship 'Lightning ' was assigned for the service , and was furnished with a " donkey-engine , " and with all other appliances iequired for the work , together with the most approved Sounding-apparatus* and Thermometers .
The vessel was placed under the charge of Staff-Comnmander May , who had been much erngaged in exploratory service elsewhere ; and the instructionis given to him were so framed as to enable him to carry out my wishes in every practicable way .
3 .
I was accompanied by my fiiend Professor Wyville Thomson , with whom the idea of this inquiry had originated , and to whose zealous and efficient cooperation I have been greatly indebted in the prosecution of it .
His large previous experience in Dredging-operations , and his extensive knowledge of the Marine Fauina , not merely of Great Britainl , but of the Scandiniavian and Boreal provinices , have supplied much that would otherwise have been deficient on my own part ; and hie has shown hinmself ever ready to relieve me of the more laborious part of the work we had jointly undertaken .
Although it has beenl deemed fitting that , as it was by rue that the proposal for this inquiry was brought before the Royal Society , and as I was enttrusted by the Admiralty withi the direction of it , this IReport of its proceedings should proceed from myself , I have the satisfaction of saying that it has the fuill conicuLrrence of my able Coadjutor.-I was permitted to take with me one of my sonls as an Assistant ; and we were all three considered as in the Public Service , and liberally providled for accordingly .
4 .
It is with great pleasure that I am able to state that the results of 12* 310 e 30 ' : o 30 tt 0 tl§ 3 ' 73 6.5 ) Clhart to rieeompany l^:-@#4r &gt; *:| ~18681Y rL a t.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u .
30 30 ' 30 , 48 46 41 7i im 97 64 4W 160 222 14P 402 4dO so -142 se 260 54 foe 41 t J02 86.58 57 67 : 227 235:.88 71 % IS4 230 299 .
2w 6v a.42i 234 238 .
78 VIE ... ... ... ... . .
302.90 31LO.:90 g. rp iw awe XI 535 x IL 240 m -jo .
50ODr .
33LIL 3X 73 5 " 683 im in 280 80 ... ... ... ... .
497 5a 77 TM IL 84 5WDr .
wF 560 no 04 ko 85 220 78 76 MO 46.5z 72 zu ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
70 A 27 40 2 68 78 52 30 4,50 50 27.2 40 06 23 AM.86 0 80 06 _tB-mL 42 43 W.0 40 48 20 87 iffRENEY IV '24 as a 42 60 4Z .
ii 40 'OS .
" 40 2I-'-46 40 , 4g , ; , v 4w,.V 36 42 42 227.94 ' 42 47 46 M ?
.W 39.0 4.3 -43 40 J7 40 4o 48 r2 as 40 40 22 40 44 27 Jo so 54 %_ " .70 21 2 " 40 43 20 ' ( 33 49 !
-.30 ' e-a Jo 26 3M6 .
87.62 48. .
N. , Nortk46 jo se F5 'M IIEBRIDYS za , S. 70 80 28 30 27 63 66 20 __J.W .
306* 3030,.110 ' 30 ' Eugrwn &amp; by Mal'oy So= our inquiries have been , in all essential particulars , fully as satisfactory as we had ventured to anticipate .
The lateness of the date at which the Expedition started ( its departure from Stornoway having beeni necessarily delayed until August 11 th ) , and the consequent limitation of the time during which deep-sea dredging would be likely to be practicable , precluded the idea that the present inquiry could be more than tentative , anything like a systematic exploration of the Marine Zoology of the area we proposed to traverse being scarcely to be expected .
In poilnt of fact , during the four weeles which elapsed between our first departure from Stornoway and our return to it on September 9th , only nine days were available for dredging in the open ocean ; and on onlyfour of these were we on a bottom exceeding 500 fathoms [ 914 metres ] in depth ; and in our second cruise of a week 's duration , we only dredged once .
Yet , as will hereafter appear , we have been enabled , by this very limnited amount of work , not only to add many new and interesting facts to science , in regard both to the Physics and the Animal Life of the Ocean ; but also to correct serious errors which have been sanctioned by high authority , and to lay a definite foundation for mxiore extended inquiries directed towards the solution of various genleral questionis of the highest importance .
5 .
On the day after our first departure from Stornoway ( August 12 ) we were met by a breeze from the N.E. , so strong that , although a sounding was obtained in lat. 590 20 ' N. and long .
70 5 ' W. , which indicated a depth of at least 500 fathoms [ 914 matres ] , with a minimnum temperatuire of 49 ?
[ 90.4 Cent. ] , the temperature of the surface-water being 5420 [ 12'-5 Cent. , any attempt to dredge was out of the question .
6 .
This breeze lasted with considerable force for three days , dturing which , being compelled to lie-to under canvas , we drifted to the northward of the deep water ; ouir first soundi:lgs after its abatement ( Auguist 15th ) giving depths of 229 and 164 fathoms [ 419 and 300 metres ] respectively , with a minimunm temperature of 480 [ 80.9 Cent. ] , the temperature of the surface-water being 54 [ 12 ` 2 Cent. ] .
As we were then approaching the Faroe Banks , we considered it expedient to devote a couple of days to the examination of the distribution of Animal Life at these comparatively moderate depths , and then to proceed to the Faroe Islands , reserving the deeper water for our retuirn voyage .
7 .
The average depthi of the Faroe Banks is about 60 fathoms [ 110 m'tres ] , and their miniminum temperature was found to be about 50 ?
[ 100.0 Cent. ] when the temperature of the surface was 530 [ 1 ` 6 Cent. ] .
The character of the Marine Invertebrate Faun-a of this region exhibited the admixture of British and of Boreal types , which might be expected from its temperature and geographical position , the former decidedly predominating .
The comu-mon Ophiocomna rosula of our own shores ( Ophiothrix fragilis of Miiller and Trroschel ) presents itself in very great abunldance , and probably furnishes an importanit part of the food of the Cod which frequent these balnks .
8 .
We reached Thorsaven on the morning of August 17th ; and , as the weather was then fine , we applied ourselves without delay to the exploration of the Fiords in its vicinity , using for this purpose the boats of the country , with native boatmen , whose knowledge of the tides and currents was indispensable to us .
Unfortunately the weather again became so unfavourable as to prevent us from extending our inquiries to more distant localities , at the same time that the low state of the barometer rendered it inexpedient to put to sea again for the prosecution of our special object * .
We found , however , that the Shells of the straits and fiords of the Faroes had been carefully collected by Sysellman Muller , who has long been in the habit of availing himself of the opportunities for dredging afforded by his official visits to different parts of the group ; and that a List of the Mollusea found in them has been recently published by Dr. 0 .
A. L. Mdrch t. The result of our own dredgings , taken in connexion with the in-formation obtained from these sources , leads us to believe that furthec exploration in this locality is not likely to bring out facts of any special interest .
The tides and currents in the Straits between the islands are so strong as to render the deepest parts of the mid-channels ( in which alone could any novelty be anticipated ) an unsuitable habitation for Marine Invertebrata ; and in the long narrow fiords which extend from these between the elevated ridges of Trap that traverse the interior of the islands the water is seldom of any considerable depth , and probably contains a large admixture of fresh water from the almost continuous rainfall which here prevails .
The general character of the Marine Zoology of the Faroes , as of their adjacent banks , seems to be just what might be expected from their position on the border between the British , Scandinavian , and Boreal provinces .
9 .
At the first indicationi of improvement in the weather , we left Thorsaven on the 26th of Auigust , with the intenition of reaching the deep channel which we expected to find lying E. and W. , between the North of Scotland and the Faroe Banks , as soorn as possible , and of exploring this channel as completely as we might be able .
At the end of our first day of steaming southwards , however , we encountered a gale from the S.W. , in the course of which the barometer fell to 29 inches , and which was severe enough to do much damage to our ship ; and it was not until the afternoon of August 29th that , after lying-to for nearly three days under canvas and drifting to the N.E. , we were able to obtain a Sounding in lat. 60§ 451 and long .
4049 ? .
This gave us a depth of 510 fathoms [ 933 mnetres ] ; and the two thermometers sent down with the lead gave a minimum of 330 [ 0§ 5 Cent. ] and 34Y ' [ P14 Cent. ] respectively , the temperatuire of the surface-water being 52 ?
[ 110 1 Cent. ] .
10 .
This very remarkable indication was fully colnfirmed the next morning , when we sounded again in lat. 60§ 71 and long .
50 21 ' , and found the depth to be 500 fathoms [ 914 mretres ] , and the minimum temperature , as giveni by the mean of three thermometers* ( showing 31 ?
[ 0 2 Cent. ] , 320 [ 0 " Cent. ] , and 330 [ 00.5 Cent. ] respectively ) , to be 32§ 2 [ 0 ?
1 Cent. ] , the temperature of the surface-water being 510 [ l0`5 Cent. ] .
11 .
We here for the first time had an opportunity of working our Dredge at this great depth , and found no difficulty in doing so .
The bottom consisted of sand and stones ; and it is important to remark that the same kind of bottom was met with in all our subsequent soundings and dredgings in the " cold area " ( §§ 12-14).-As might have been anticipated from the extraordinary reduction of the Temperature , there proved to be a comparative scantiness of Animal life ; and of the forms which did present themselves , several belonged to the Boreal Fauna .
Still there were examples of several different groups ; and there was not that predominance of low forms which some have supposed to characterize the Fauna of great depths .
Indeed the Rlizopoda , of which we afterwards encountered an extraordinary development at the like depth , but in a much warmer temperature , were almost entirely absent .
It is worthy of note that a specimen of Astropecten of a bright red colour came up adherent to the dredge-line at a distance of 250 fathoms [ 457 metres ] from the dredge , about 1200 fathoms [ 2195 metres ) of line being out .
As this animal is entirely unprovided with swimming-organs , and was found to be of such specific gravity as to sink immediately when placed in a jar of sea-water , it can scarcely have been taken up anywhere else than from the sea-bottom ; and if this be admitted , it is obvious that at least 250 fathomns [ 457 metres ] of the dredge-line must have been lying oln that bottom .
Not only on many subsequent occasions did Ophiurida come up on the like part of the dredge-line , but in our last dredging ( § 19 ) , from a depth of 65.0 fathoms [ 1189 metres ] , there came up attached to it , at a distance of abouit 50 fathoms [ 92 mretres ] from the dredge , two pieces of a Siliceous Sponge , which most assuredly could not have been drawn from any other source than the sea-bottom t , and which included many small living Ophiurida .
e It had been our intention to make a careful comparison of each of these Thermometers with an accurate standard on our return , and thus to have determined with greater pre .
cision the temperatures they respectively indicated ; but two of them were unfortunately lost in a subsequent Sounding ( § 19 ) .
t From this it is obvious that the Dredge-rope , so far from buioying up the Dredge , must effectually assist in sinking it , especially when the rope has been solidified by previous repeated immersions at great de-pths .
I find the specific gravity of a portion of our dredge-rope , which has been thus subjected to a pressure of 118 atmospheres , to be 1347 , that of Sea-water being about 1029 .
In our earlier dredgings , we attached one or two couples of 12-lb .
shot to the dredge-line at a short distance from the dredge , so as 12 .
The weather again interfered with the prosecution of our irnqu'iry , which had now become of most unexpected interest ; but we were able on the morning of September 1st to obtain a Sounding , in lat. 60§ 10 ' and long .
5 ' 59 ' , which ftully confirmeed our previous observations .
The depth was here 550 fathoms [ 1006 metres ] , and the minimum temperature indicated by the mean of two thermometers* ( which stood at 3 1i7 and 32 ?
` 5 respectively ) was 32 ?
[ 0 ?
Cent. ] , the surface-temperature being 530 [ 11`6 Cent. ] .
There was , however , too much wiind for dredging on that day .
13 .
On the following day ( Sept. 2 ) , in lat. 60§ 24 ' and long .
6§ 38 ' , our Sounding gave us a depth of oiily 170 fathoms [ 311 metres ] ; but even at this depth we found , with a surface-temperature of 52 ?
[ 11.l1 Cent. ] , a minimum temperature , indicated by the mean of two thermometerst ( which stood at 41k0 and 420 respectively ) , of 41 [ 50.4 Cent. ] , -that is , about 6 ?
[ 30.3 Cent. ] lower than the minimutm temperature we had found at a like depth when approaching the Faroe Banks ( § 6 ) , and 8 ?
[ 40.4 Cent. ] lower than tnat we subsequently encountered at the like depth when approaching the inorth coast of Scotlanid ( § 17 ) .
Our Dredgings here aforded evidence of a great abundance and variety of Animal life , Norwegian forms being mingled in a very marked manlner with British .
In particular we obtained a large number of specimens of Terebratula cranium of uniusual size , a beautiful delicately moulded arenaceous triradiate Foraminifer+ , and very large examples of a coarsely arenaceous Rhizopod closely correspondirig with the Lituola Soldanii of the Silurian Tertiaries .
14 .
On the following day ( Sept. 3 ) we again found ourselves in deep water , our Sounding , taken in lat. 600 28 ' and long .
60 55 ' , giving a depth of 500 fathoms [ 914 metres1 .
The mninimum indicated by the mean of three thermometers ( which registered 31 4 ?
, 33 ?
0 , and 340 respectively ) was 330 [ LO ?
5 Cent. ] , the temperature of the surface being 51 [ 100.5 Cent. ] .
I-Here , again , our Dredgings gave the same general results as those of previous dredgin , gs at the like depth and temperature ( § 11 ) ; and not only was our previous conclusion confirmed , that a pressure of 100 atmospheres is not incompatible with the existenice of num'ierous and varied forms of Animal life , but we had the gratification of obtaining a specimen of the remarkable Echinoderm Bri &amp; inya ( one of the Norwegian types specially mentioned in Prof. Wyville Thomson 's letter ) , part of the arms of which to ensure its , handles being kept down upon the ground , in the position requisite for the ' biting ' of its edge ; but we soon becamne satisfied that this is effectually done by the weight of the dredge-rope itself , when it has once been deeply submerged .
A third Thermometer had been sent down ; but as it registered a minimum of 36§ 2 [ 2§ 3 Cent. ] , we thought it fair to presutme that its index had not been carried down as far as the real miniimum-a circumstance of frequenit occurrence .
t Our third Thermoineter stood on this occasion at 450 [ 70`2 C. ] ; and its reading has not been taken into account , for the reason stated in the preceding note .
+ This we believe to be the Rhabdammniga cabyssorum of Sars ; but as no description of the type has yet ( so far as we can learn ) been published by him , we are unable to identify it with certlainty .
came up on the dredge-rope , whilst other portions , with the body ( apparently belonging to one and the same individual ) , were found in the dredge .
15 .
The weather again occasioned for two days an interruption in our dredging ; and it did not even permit the use of the proper deep-sea sounding-apparatus .
But a sounding was taken on Sept. 5th , in lat. 60§ 30 ' and long .
70 16 ' , with the ordinary deep-sea lead , which showed that there was no bottom at 450 fathoms [ 822 metres ] , and gave a minimnum temperature , indicated by the mean of two thermometers ( which marked 330 and 352k respectively ) , of 334 ?
[ 0§ 7 Cent. ] , the surface-temperature being 500 [ 10 ?
0 .
Cent. ] .
16 .
It was then considered expedient to shape our course in a southerly direction ; and on the morning of September 6th we found ourselves in lat. 590 36 ' and long .
7§ 20 ' .
lIere a very careful Sounding gave a depth of 530 fathoms [ 969 mectres ] ; and the minimum temperature indicated by the mean of three thermometers ( which registered 47 ?
, 47k , ?
and 472 ?
respectively ) was 4730 [ 8§ 5 Cent. ] , the surface-temperature being 522 ?
[ l 104 Cent. ] .
This result fully confirmed that obtained by our first less satisfactory sounding in nearly the same locality ( § 5 ) , which the low ternperatures subsequently obtained with such uniformity in like depths elsewhere had led us to doubt.-We were able on this day to obtain several good casts of the Dredge , the results of which proved of extraordinary interest .
The bottom consisted of a bluish-white tenacious mud , containing but a small admixture of the Glo6igerince so abundantly obtained by previous soundings from various parts of the sea-bottom of the North Atlantic .
Imbedded in this mud there came uip an extraordinary collection of Siliceous Sponges , of new and most remarkable forms ; and with these was associated the Hyalonema Sie6oldii , which appeared to us clearly referable to that Family .
The Rhizopods found in this mud were scarcely less interesting ; for besides numerous specimens of the typically triradiate Rhabidammina alyssorum ( ?
) , presenting a varied range of forms , another large group of gigantic coarsely arenaceous bodies presented themselves , of the most varied shapes , apparently referable to the Astrorhiza limicola * as their fundamental type , together with a large and perfect living specimen of Cristellaria , closely resembling that common in the Siciliani Tertiaries , and a CGorniuspira of extraordinary size .
With these lower forms , our dredgings on this bottom brouight uip a considerable vrariety of higher tie pes , Zooplhytes , Eckizoderms , MIollusks , and Crustaceans ; amongwhich may be mentioned , as of special interest , two specimens of Rhiz-ocrigns , the small Apiocrinoid whose recent discovery by M. Sars on the coast of Norway ( see Appendix ) may be considered as having furnished a principal " ; motive " of our expedition , and a living Oculina prolhfera , of which we had on previous occasions brought up only dead and worn specimelns.-We thus obtained evidence of the existence , not of a degraded or starved-ouit residuum of Animal life , but of a rich and varied Fauna , including elevated as well as humble types , at a depth of 530 fathoms [ 969 metres ] .
This Fauna was essentially British in its general character , but included several types hitherto found only near the coast of Norway .
Since it presented itself on the southern border of the deep channel intervening between the North of Scotland and the Faroe Banks , these types must henceforth be considered to appertain equally to the British province .
17 .
As it was necessary for us to continue our course towards Stornoway , we were not able to prosecute further inquiries in this interesting locality , as we should otherwise have been most glad to do ; and on the morning of September 7th , in lat. 590 5 ' and long .
70 29 ' , a Sounding gave the comparatively small depth of 189 fathoms [ 345 mretres ] .
We found the minimum temperature , indicated by the mean of three thermometers ( respectively marking 49 O , 49 30 , and 49 I ' ) , to be here 49 ?
0 [ 9§ 8 Cent. ] , the surface-temperature being 520 [ 110 1 Cent. ] .
Here our Dredge brought up almost exclusively the ordinary types of the northern shores of Scotland , the chief features of interest being the great abundance of Cidaris papillata , and the occurrence of Antedon celticus ( Comatula celtica of Barrett ) , numerous specimens of which had been previouisly obtained off the coast of Ross-shire by Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys .
As we approached the land , the contents of the dredge became altogether barren of animal life , probably on account of the " scour of the strong currents and tides of this locality , and the stony character of its bottom .
In the Minch ( the channel between the Island of Lewis and the mainland ) the dredge again brought up a considerable number of well-known North British forms ; and at one of our casts it came up full of mud , sticking in which was an extraordinary number of livinog specimens of Pennatula .
18 .
We arrived at Stornoway on the afternoon of September 9 ; and here Prof. Wyville Thomson was obliged to leave us , in order to attend the Meetings of the Commission on Science and Art Instruction , of which he is a member .
As , however , the weather presented an uniusually settled aspect , and as the results we had already obtained led me strongly to desire an opportunity of examining both the Temperature and the Animal life of waters still deeper than any we had hitherto sounded , it was thought by Captain May and myself that , notwithstanding the lateness of the season , it would be worth while to venture another short cruise in a westerly direction , where we knew , from soundings previously taken , that a depth exceeding 1000 fathomxs ( 1829 metres ) is to be met with.-After refitting our ship and our dredging-apparatus at Stornoway , we left that harbour for a second t'ime on September 14 , and proceeded in a N.W. course , with the view of finding , in the latitude of the region which had given us a temperature of 320 [ 0 ?
Cent. ] at a depth of 500 fathoms [ 914 me'tres ] , but at some distance to the westward , still deeper water , and possibly a still lower temperature ( the freezing-point of sea-water being 270.4 [ -20.55 Cent. ] ) , and of then running southwards until we should find ourselves over the deep valley between the Western Hebrides and the Rockall Bank .
In this valley we hoped , from our previous success in working the Dredge at upwards of 500 fathoms , to be able , if weather should permit , to demonstrate the practicability of examining by its means the distribution of Animal life at twice that depth .
19 .
After a very fine run of 140 miles in a N.W. direction from the Butt of Lewis , we took a Sounding on the morning of Sept. 15 in lat. 590 59 ' , long .
90 15 ' , and found at 650 fathoms [ 1189 inetres ] a bottom of bluishwhite unctuous mud , very like that from which we had brought up the Siliceous Sponges ( § 16 ) .
The minimum temperature here indicated by the mean of three thermometers ( registering 450 , 46 ' , and 47 0 respectively ) was 460 [ 70.7 Cent. ] , the surface-temperature being 530 [ 110.6 Cent. ] .
As it was thus evident that we were in the warm , not in the cold area of bottom-temperature , we proceeded about 60 miles still further to the N.W. , and on the morning of Sept. 16 we sounded in lat. 60 ' 38 ' and long .
110 7 ' .
The depth'was here 570 fathoms [ 1043 metres ] ; and the scoop of the Sounding-apparatus brought up an almost pure Globigerina sand .
The minin'mum ' temperature indicated by two thermometers ( registering 46- ?
and 47'0 respectively ) was 470 [ 8 ?
03 Cent. ] , the surface-temperature being 52'.-Still looking for deeper water and a lower temperature , we proceeded about 50 miles further in the same direction ; and on the afternoon of that day took another Sounding in lat. 61§ 2 ' and long , .
120 4 ' , which gave a depth of 650 fathoms [ 1189 metres ] .
On this occasion our Sinker and three Thermometers were unfortunately lost by the parting of the line in winding-up , so that we did not ascertain either the nature of the bottom or the minimum temnperature ; but as we had now reached a latitude far north of that of the cold depths we had previously traversed ( being nearly that of the southern end of the Faroe group ) , we deemed it inexpedient to proceed further in this direction ; and a cast of the Dredge was therefore taken at this point , the depth being greater by 120 fathoms than any at which we had previously worked it .
We found no difficulty in this operation , notwithstanding that the dredge was loaded with about 2cwt .
[ 127 kilog .
] of whitish grey mud , of peculiar viscidity , brought up from a depth ( 3900 ' feet ) nearly equal to the height of the highest mountains in Great Britain .
At some 50 fathoms [ 92 metres ] from the dredge , two whitish tufts were seen on the dredge-rope ; and these proved to consist of portions of a Siliceous Sponge , quite free from the mud with which all the specimens previously obtained had been infiltrated .
As it is obvious that these specimens must have been detached by the dredge-rope in its passage over the surface of the mud ( § 11 ) , it seems clear that these Sponges , in part at least , project above that surface , which the infiltrated condition of those previously obtained had caused us to doubt .
On separating the different parts of the large mass of mud brought up by the dredge , we found it to be everywhere traversed by fibres , which proved to be long siliceous Sponge-spicules ; and our subsequent examination of these has shown them to be the root-fibxres of Sponges , the bodies of which have a siliceous framework of very different structure .
As it thus appears that these Siliceous Spongoes , when growing on the surface of the mud , send root-fibres ( so to speak ) far and wide into its substance , the idea previously suggested by Prof. Love'n , that the elongated flint-rope of HIyalonenza Sieboldii is in reality the mud-imbedded stem , supj)orting the Sponge with which it is connected , instead of beingo imp)llanted in the Sponge and supported by it ( which is the commonly received opinlioIn ) , seems the more likely .
This idea is thought probable by Prof. WVyville Thomson , who has already paid great attenition to the whole group , and by whomi all the niew forms we lave obtained will hereafter be fully described .
-Entangled among the fibres of the Sponge were found several small Opltiocomce , Polyzoa , Grustacea , and tubicolar Annelidt7a , the tulbes of the last being for the most part compose-d of Globigerine cemented together , frequenitly in a most regular and beautiful manlner .
The only living testaceous Mollusk that presented itself was a small specimen of Te elbraldla cr aniun .
Imbedded in the mud were found a specimnen of Kophobelemnnon Miulleri ( a type allied to Pennatula ) in full life , and two headless stems of Ruizocrinus , the perfectly fresh aspect of which leads me to believe that they must have growiv on the spot , and have been munutilated in .
the sifting of the mudl in which they were imbedded .
This mud contained a considerable proportioni ( about 60 per cent. ) of Glo6igerinio , together with some remarkably large Biloculince and other M31ilioline forms .
The general character of this Fauna obvionsly bore a close relationi to that of our previous dredging in a similar bottom ; and though we caninot positively affirm the Temperature of that bottom to be the same , yet we have not merely the evidenlce of a previous Sounding in a locality not far removed from it , but also that of a Sounding subsequently takenl in another locality further to the south , but nearly in the same longitude ( § 20 ) , to this effect .
20 .
Being anixious now to proceed as quickly as possible to the region in which we knew that we slhouled find much deeper water , we steered nearly due south , and on the morning of Sept. 17 reached lat. 590 49 ' and long .
12§ 36 ' .
Ilere a Souniiding gave us a depth of 620 fathoms [ I 134 mretres ] , with a bottom of white mud very similar to that of our last dredging .
The minimumn temperature , as showni by the meain of two there * See his description of Hyolnmerl boreale inI 'U fversigt af K. Veteiuslkaps Alademiens F6rbandlingar , ' 1808 , p. 105 ; translated inI 'Annals of Natural History , ' Fourth Series ( 1808 ) , vol. ii .
p. 8l.-Dr .
J. E. Gray , whilst still maintaining that tho " flint-rope " is a Zoophytic product , and that the Sponge with which it is connected is parasitic , has also com-le to the conelusionthat the brulsh-like terminiation serves as tho root implanted in imiud , above which the Spolnge is borneo .
( See Ann. of Not .
list .
, Fourth Series , vol. ii .
p. 272 .
) t See his Paper on the Vitreous Sponiges , in ' Annals of Natural History , ' Fourti Series , vol. i. ( 1868 ) , p. 114 .
mometers ( registering 45-k0 and 46-IO respectively ) , was 46 ?
[ 70.7 Cent. ] , the temperature of the surface being 52 ?
[ 110 1 Cent. ] .
21 .
Still proceeding southwards , we reached in lat. 58k0 the locality in which we hoped , from soundings previously made and recorded , to be able to extend our inquiries to greater depths ; but unfortunatelv a breeze had now set in from the N.E. , which was strong enough to prevent us not only from dredging but even from sounding ; and this breeze freshened on the night of Sept. 19 to a gale , which made it prudeint to seek the shelter of the land by running to the eastward .
Notwithstanding a partial abatement on the afternoonl of the next day , it was considered by Capt. May that , having due regard to the uncertain aspect of the weather , to the state of the barometer , and to the season of the year , as well as to the fact that the time assignied by the Admiralty for our remaining at sea was on the point of expiring , it would not be prudent to hold on as we were , for the slight chance of being able to accomplish our object .
Our course was therefore directed to Oban , which we reached on the afternoon of Sept. 21 * .
General -Results .
Before proceeding to sum up the general results of our inquiries , and to indicate the conclusions to which these seem to point , I think it desirable to give a brief notice of the researches of those who had preceded us in the same line of inquiry .
The earliest instance I have been able to find in which living Animals were brought up from great depths in the Ocean , occurred in the Arctic Expedition ( 1818 ) of Captain ( afterwards Sir John ) R:oss , and is mentioned in the narrative of his ' Voyage of Discovery ' t. General Sabine , who was a member of that Expedition , has been kind enough to furnish me with the following more ample particulars of this occurrence:- " The ship sounded in 1000 fathoms , mud , between one and two miles off shore ( lat. 730 37 ' N. , long .
750 25 ' W. ) ; a magnificent Asterias caput-medusce was entangled by the line and brought up with very little damage .
The mud was soft and greenish , and contained specimens of Lumbricus tu6icola .
' So far my written journal ; but I can add , from a very distinct recollection , that the heavy deep-sea weight had sunk , drawing the line with it , several feet into the very soft greenish mud , which still adhered to the line when brought to the surface of the water .
The Starfish had been entangled in the line so little above the mud , that fragments of its arms , which had been broken off in the ascent of the line , were picked ouit from amongst the muid .
" It hence seems indubitable that the Asterias ( Astrophyton ) and the Tubicolar Annelids were brought upfromz the bottom ; and the only doubt that can fairly be thrown upon the value of this observation has reference to the precise depth indicated by the Sounding , this having been made according to the old method now abandoned as unreliable .
The circumstances under which this sounding was taken , howeever , render it probable that the actual depth was not much less than that recorded .
In another Sounding , in calm water , and with a smooth sea ( lat. 720 23 ' N. , long .
730 7 ' W. ) , a depth of 1O05 fathoms was obtained with great precision ; and a small Starfish was found attached to the line below the point marking 800 fathoms .
The subsequent explorations of Prof. Edward Forbes* , on which he founded the opinion that a zero of animal life would be found at 300 fathoms [ 548 metres ] , did not themselves go deeper than 230 fathoms [ 420 metres ] ; vet his bigh authority on questions of this nature caused his opinion to be very generally adopted , alike by Zoologists , Physical Geographers , and Geolo0lists .
The fallacy of Prof. E. Forbes 's assumption , however , was demonstrated by the results of Dredgings carried on in Sir James Ross 's Antarctic Expedition , at depths of from 270 to 400 fathoms , which yielded evidence of great abundance and variety of Animal life between those depths .
Dr. J. 1D .
Hooker has kindly placed in my hands some extracts from his Journal , which give much fuller particulars of these results than are to be found in Sir James Ross 's Narrative t. On the 28th of Jurne , 1845 , the ill-fated Mr. Iharry Goodsir , who was a member of Sir John Franklin 's expedition , obtained in Davis 's Straits , from a depth of 300 fathoms , " a capital haul , -Mollusca , Crustacea , Asterida , Sptangi , Corallirtes , &amp;c. " " The bottomn was composed of very fine green mud , apparently corresponding to that mentioned by General Sabine .
I am not aware that between this date and that at which the researches of MM .
Sars commenced , any Dredging was carried on at depths exceeding those now specified ; and the additions to our knowledge of the Life of the deep sea , with one remarkable exceptioni to be presently noticed ( p. 182 ) , were made through the instrumentality of the improved Sounding-apparatus , which brings up a specimen of the superficial deposit ( of whatever nature this may be ) covering the sea-bottom , with such Animals as it may meet " , 11 Report on the Miolluisca and Radiata of the Egean Sea , and on their distribution considered as bearing on Geology ; " in Report of the British Associationi , 1843 , p. 130 .
t 'Voyage of Discovery and Research in the Southern and Antarctic Regions , during the Years 1839-1843 , ' vol. i. p. 207 , and Appendix , p. 334.-It is much to be regretted that the specimenis obtained should never have been systematically catalogued , and that the many novelties which presented themselves ( among them a Pyonoogobid twelve inches across ) shouldr not have been described .
The specimens , with drawings made at the ime by Dr. Hooker , were kept by Sir Jamnes Ross , with a view to their publication ; but he died without carrying that intention inlto efect ; and neither specimens nor drawings are now recoverable .
t See the ' Natural History of the European Seas , ' by Prof. E Forbes and R. Godwin-Austen 1859 , p. 51 .
with on the spot on which it drops .
This method of examination must obviously be very inferior to Dredging in collecting-power ; nevertheless it has yielded some very important results .
In the year 1855 , Prof. Bailey ( of West Point , U.S. ) published a " Microscopic Examination of Deep Soundings from the Atlantic Ocean " * , between lat. 42§ 4 ' and 540 17 ' North , and long .
90 8 ' and 29 ?
0 ' West , and at depths of from 1080 to 2000 fathoms .
He stated that " none of these soundings contain a particle of gravel , sand , or other recognizable Mineral matter ; and that they are all made up of the shells of Globigerine and Orbulince , with a fine calcareous mud derived from the disintegration of those shells , containing a few siliceous skeletons of Polycystina and spicules of Sponges .
" Connecting these results with those furnished by previous Sounidings in the western portions of the Atlantic , Prof. Bailey inferred that with the exception of a spot near the bank of Newfouindland , in which the bottom at 175 fathoms was found to be made up of quartzose sand without any traces of organic forms , " the bottom of the North Atlantic Ocean , so far as examined , from the depth of about 60 fathoms to that of 2000 fathoms , is literally nothing but a mass of microscopic shells ; " and he explicitly likened this deposit to the Chalk of England and the Calcareoiis MaPls of the Upper Missouri .
After stating that examination of samples of ocean-water , taken at different depths in situations in close proximity to the places where the sounidings were made , yielded no trace of Foraminifera , he concludes with the following questions:- " Do they live on the bottom at the immense depths where they are found , or are they borne by submarine currents from their real habitat ?
Has the Gulf-stream any connexion , by means of its temperature or its current , with their distribution ?
" Upon these questions Prof. Bailey does not seem ever to have given a decided opinion ; although he inclined to the belief that the Globigerinaw and Orbulint ?
had not lived on the bottom where they were found , but had either been transported thither by currents , or had lived nearer the surface of the sea , and had fallen to the bottom after death .
On the other hand , Prof. Ehrenberg , to whom specimens of these Soundings were forwarded .
, expressed his conviction ( based on the condition of the organic substance contained in the cavities of the shells ) that these Foraminifera had lived on the bottom from which they were brought up .
Similar conclusions regarding the extensive diffusion of Globigerince over the deep-sea bottom of the North Atlantic were drawn by Prof. Huxley from his examination of the Soundings brought up by Lieut.-Commander Dayman , from depths of from 1700 to 2400 fathoms t. Of the whole mass of the fine mudldy sediment of which these soundings consisted , it is estimated by Prof. Huxley that 85 per cent. conisisted of Globigerine ; 5 per cent. of other Forarninifera , of , at most , not more than four or five species ; and the remaining 10 per cent. partly of Siliceous organisms ( D)iatom8 and Polycystina ) , partly of mineral fragments , and partly of the very minute granular bodies designated by Prof. HEuxley Coecoliths .
These granules he described as appareretly consisting of several concentric layers su-rrounding a minute clear cenitre , and looking at first sight somewhat like single cells of the plant Pr-otococcus ; but as thby are rapidlv and co-mpletely dissolved by dilute acids , their composition cannot be organic .
With referenice to the question whether the Giohigerince actually live at these depths , Prof. H-Iuxley says , " The balance of probabilities seems to me to incline in that direction .
And there is one circumstance which weighs strongly in my mind .
It may be taken as a law that any genus of animals which is found far back in time is capable of living under a great variety of circulmstances as regards light , temperatuire , and pressure .
Now the genius Globigerina is abundantly represented in the Cretaceous epoch , and perhaps earlier " ( op .
cit. p. 67 ) .
The results obtainied by Prof. Bailey and Prof. I-Iuxley , in regard to the prevalence of Glo6igerin6e over a la.rge part of the sea-bottom in the North Atlantic Ocean , were confirnmed and extended by the observations of Dr. Wallich , made during the voyage of the ' Bull-dog ' in 1860 ; and as he was able to examiine the condition of the Globigerince when freshly brought up , his testimony furnishes any important corroboration of Prof. Ebrei berg 's conclusion .
" The Globigerince , " he says * , " have never been detected free-floating in any number in deep , or forming deposits in shallow waters ; a considerable proportion of those met with in deep-sea deposits exhibit every appearance of vitality ; and their maximuim developmeylt is associated with the presence of the Gulf-stream , but only through the operation of collateral conditions prevailing at great depths below the current itself .
" But in addition , the ' Bull-dog ' sounding-line brouLght uip a cluster of Opphiocownce attached to a portion of it which had lain on the bottom at a depth of 1260 fathoms ; and Globigerince were found , with other matters , in their stomachs .
Further , in various localities , at depths ranging from 871 to 1913 fathoms , tubes of small Tubicolar Annelids were brought up ; and some of these were found to be composed of Globigerina-shells cemented together , whilst others were made up of aln admixture of Spongespicules and minute Calcareous debris .
Lastly a living Serpula , Spirorbis , and a group of Polyzoa were brought up from a depth of 680 fathoms , and a couple of living A 2phip)od Crustaceec from a depth of 445 fathoms .
Taking into consideration the arguments adduced to prove that the conditions which prevail on the deep-sea bed are not incompatible with the maintenance of animal life , and the extreme improbability that the creatures heretofore discovered at great depths are merely exceptional or accidental examples , it will , I think , be conceded that the presence of a living Fauna in the deeper abysses of the ocean has been filly established " t. Dr. Wallich 's just conielusions have not by any means commanded the universal assent of Naturalists .
It is still urged* that the Globigerinee lived at or near the suirface , and that they only fell to the bottom after death .
Anid it has been thouight by many to be more probable that the Ophioeomce had been entangled by the Sounding-line during either its descent or its ascent through the water , than that they had lived on the bottoml .
Our Dredge , however , having brought up , from depths of 530 and 650 fathoms , abundance of living Globigerine and Ophiocornce entangled in the recesses of Sponges , with Rotalice attached by shell-substance to the spicules of these Sponges , the statements of Dr. Wallich with regard to these animals , which I had always myself regarded as probable , may now be considered as put beyond reasonable question t. The general bearings of the facts thus brought to light , together with those furnished by the earlier observations of Sir John Ross and others , are fully and ably discuissed by Dr. Wallich ; but I must content myself with the following citation of his conclusions , referring to his Treatise for the arguments on which they rest : " Basinog my arguments , then , on two facts which I venture to hope are unequivocally proved in the preceding pages , namely that h-ighly organized creatures have been captured in a living condition at depths vastly exceeding those to which animal life had previouslv been supposed to extenid , and that their presence , when captured , cannot be regarded as an accidental or exceptional phenomenon , it has been my endeavour to establish the following important propositions : " I. The conditions prevailing at great depths , although differing materially from those which prevail near the suirface of the ocean , are not incompatible with the maintenance of animal life .
" II .
Assuming the doctrine of single specific cenitres to be correct , the occurrence of the same species in shallow water and at great depths proves that it must have undergone the transition from one set of conditions to the other with impunity .
" III .
There is nothing in the nature of the conditions prevailing at great depths to render it impossible that creatures originally , or through acclimatization , adapted to live under them should become capable of living in shallow water , provided the transition be sutfficiently gradual ; and hence it is possible that species now inihabiting shallow water may at some anterior period have been inhabitants of great depths .
" IV .
On the one hand the conditions prevailing near the surface of the ocean render it possible for organisms to subside after death to the greatest depths , provided every portion of their structure is freely pervious to fluid .
On the other hand , the conditions prevailing at great depths render it impossible for organisms still constituted to live under them to rise to the surface , or for the remains of these organisms after death to make their appearance in shallow water .
" 'V .
The discovery of even a single species living normally at great depths warrants the inference that the deep sea has its own special fauna , and that it has always had it in ages past ; and henice that many fossiliferous strata , heretofore regarded as having been deposited in comparatively shallow water , have been deposited at great depth " * .
In 1861 the very importanit fact was made public by M. Alphonse Milne-Edwards t , that when the Submarinie Telegraph-cable between Sardinia and Algiers was taken up for repair , several living Polyparies and Mollusks were attached to portionis of it which had been submerged to a depth of from 2000 to 2800 mictres , or from 1093 to 1577 fathoms .
Of these , some had been previously considered very rare , or had been altogether unknown ; whilst others were only known in a fossil state as belonging to the Fauna of the later Tertiaries of the Mediterraniean basin .
In the Swedish Expedition to Spitzbergen in 1861 , a compact mass of clay was brought up from 1400 fathoms by the " M'Clintock apparatuis , " the temperature of the interior of which was fonind to be 320.5 [ 00.3 Cent. ] , the temperature of the surface-water being 390.2 [ 40 Cenit ] .
" Notwithstanding this low degree of warmth , there were found several marine animals of different types and classes-amongst others a moderately large Polyparium , probably belonging to the Ilydroid class , a bivalved Mussel , some Tunicata attached to the Polyparium , and one Crustacean of bright colours " T. Of the very important researches which have been subsequently carried on by Prof. Sars of Christiania and his Son , we knew little more , whenl we proceeded on our own cruise , than is stated in Prof. Wyville Thomson 's letter ( Appendix ) .
But I have since learned from the recently published Report ?
, which Prof. Sars has been good enough to transmit to me , that their Dredgings have ranged between 200 and 450 fathoms , and that no fewer than 427 species have been collected within this range , which he classifies as follows : Protozoa .
{ Rhizopoda ... ... . .
68 Sponge .
5 Coelenterata ... ... Anthozoa ... ... ... ... 20 Hydrozoa .
2f Crinoidea ... ... ... ... . .
2 Echinodermata.* .
Echinida..5 Holothurida .
8 Vermes.f Gephyrea .
6 Annelida. .
51 rPolyzoa .
35 Tunicata .
4 Mollusca .
- .
Brachiopoda. .
41 Conchifera 37 tCephalophora 53 fArachnida.1 ... ... Arthropoda .
Crustacea.105 427 Of these , 20 species of Rhizopoda , 3 of Echinodermata , 8 of Conchifera , 3 of Cephalophora , and 4 of Crustacea-in all 42-are recorded as having been found at 450 fathoms .
Shortly after our return , I learned that an exploration of the deep sea by means of the Dredge had been very successfully commenced by Count Pourtales , in connexion with the United States Coast Survey ; and I have since received from Mr. Alexander Agassiz the following account of its results:- " He has dredged to 500 fathoms along quite a line of sections betweeni Florida and Cuba ; and under this pressure of nearly 100 atmospheres he has found Echini , Starftshes , Ophiuridans , Crinoids , Corals , many kinds of Crustacea,.4nnelids , Moliusca , Molluscoids , and , in fact , a Fauna as plentifully represented as along the most populous of our marine shore-fauna .
It has been decided to send Mr. Pourtales again this winter ; and with his former experience and additional equipment , we may look for grand results .
The facilities placed at his disposal are very great ; as his dredging-work is done in connexion with regular soundings carried on by the Survey of the Gulf-stream commnenced by Mr. Bache and prosecuted by his successor Prof. Pierce " .
Our own Dredgings , which have extended to a depth of 650 fathoms , are still the deepest of which I have any knowledge .
They were accomplished without any serious difficulty , and with results fully as satisfactory as those of ordinary shore-dredging .
And I have no doubt that similar dredges , worked by adequate enigine-power , would answer equally well at those far greater depths , our knowledge of the living inhabitants of which has beeni hitherto limited ( with the notable exception of the Mediterranean cable , p. 182 ) to the few forms that have beeni brought up by the Soundingapparatus* .
I , The collective results of these recent Dredgings have conclusively established the justice of the inference formerly drawni by Dr. Wallich from the more restricted data he had collected , as to the existenice of a varied and abundant submarine Fauna , at depths which have beeni generally supposed to be either altogether azoic , or occupied only by Animals of very low type .
And a complete disproof has thus been furniished of the doctrine , against which Dr. Wallich argued with great force , that a cert ; ain amouint of bathymetric pressu:-re must be prejuidicial , if not absolutely fatal , to highier forms of Animnal life .
In much that has been put forward upon this subject , two important considerations have been altogeth-er ignlored:-first , that pressure will not act upon an Animnal whose body entirely consists of solid and liquid parts , in the same mannaer as it acts nipon one that includes air-cavities ; and second , that as fluids press equally in all directions , an Animal i-milmersed at any depth is just as free to move one part upon another , as it would be if living near the surface .
The right point from which to look at this subject has long appeared to me to be the conClition of a drop of water , conceived as carried downi from the surface to a depth ( say ) of 1100 fathoms [ 2012 mzetres ] , at which the pressure will be about 200 atmospheres , or 3000 lbs. [ 1360 kilogr .
] upon the square inen .
Let it be coniceived that this drop is enclosed in a pellicle of the thinnest possible membrane , fitted only to separate it from the surrounding mnediumn , but having in itself no power of resistance .
Now it is obvious that this drop would maintain its form , whatever this may have originally been , entirely unchanged , being neither flattened-out into a planie , nor reduced to a sphere , by pressure to any amotunt which acts uponI it equally in all directions ; while its bhlk will only undergo r eduction , under a pressuire of 200 atmospheres , to the extent of less than one-hundredth .
Next , let us suppose , inistead of a drop of water conitained within a pellicle , a particle of the semiflutid " sarcode " of which the body of a 1 ?
/izopod is composed ; in which the more liquid interior ( endosarc ) is contained by a more tenacious external layer ( ectosarc ) , the contractility of which gives rise to continual changes of form , that are subservienit to the movement of the creature from place to place , and also to the ing- , estion of its food .
Now , it will be obvious to any one who follows out the law of flutid pressure in its application to any Animnal of this sirnple constitution , that so long as these changes of form do not involve a change of bellk , pressure to any amouint exerts no anitagonizing itnfluLence ; so that its movements can be performed with the same freedom on the ocean-bottom as they can be niear the surface .
And , further , even when the bulk of the body is augmented by the ingestion of solid or liquid particles ( say the reception of a zoospore of a Protophyte as food , or the filling of the " contractile vesicle " with water from without , which seems to be a sort of respiratory process ) , just as much pressure will be exerted by the superincumbent liquid in forcing those particles into the body as is exerted upon the exterior of the body in resisting its distension ; so that here , again , the influence of that pressure will be practically nil.-If the actions of any purely aquatic Animal of more complex structure be looked at from the same point of view , I am persuiaded that it will be fotund that they are not practically interfered with by fluid pressure to any amount , such pressure not having any tendency to alter either the general form of the body , or the shape of its softest and most delicate parts , and not interfering in the least either with the movements of these parts one upon the other , or with the circulation of fluid in their interior , or with those molecular chaniges which are concerned in their nutrition .
II .
The results we have obtained fully justify the consident expectation we had formed and expressed ( see Appendix ) , on the basis afforded by the observations of M. Alphonse Milne-Edwards on the Mediterranean Cable , and by the results of the dredgings of M. Sars , jun .
, that the systematic exploration of the Ocean-bottom , at depths much greater than are usually to be found near lauid , would bring to light many forms of Animal life , either altogether new to science , or hitherto supposed to be limited to particular localities , or known only as belonging to a Geological epoch supposed to have terminated .
For one and the same cast of the dredge , in the singularly productive locality specified in § 16 , brought up specimens of the highest interest belonging to each of these categories ; so that if we had been able , .
by remaining there even for a few days , to work this ground thoroughly , a much larger addition might have been fairly expected from this one spot , -stiLl more , therefore , if the inquiry should be extended over that much wider area in which , as will presently appear , the like conditions prevail .
For it must have been a strangely fortunate accident that brought together into ouLr drecdge so remarkable a collection of Vitreous S9ponges and gigantic Rhizopods ( many of them altogether new , and the rest known only as inhabitants of very distant localities , -with the Rhizocrinus previously obtained only in one spot more than 600 miles off ) , if these were not diffused tolerably abundantly as well as widely ; and the probability that they are so rises almost to a certainty , when it is borne in mind that the next dredgefull that was obtained from a bottom similar both in character and in temperature , though at a depth of 120 fathoms greater , and at a distance of 200 miles in a straight line , showed distinct evidence of the prevalence of similar types ( § 19 ) .
111 .
Our researches have conclusively established the existence of a minimum Temperature* at least as low as 3 20 [ 00 Cent. ] over a considerable area , where the depth was 500 fathoms [ 914 metres ] and upwards ; notwithstanding that the surface-temperature varied little from 52 ?
[ 110 1 Cent. ] , alike in this region and in neighbouring areas of similar depth , in , which the minimum temperature was only a few degrees beneath that of the surface .
The current doctrine in regard to deep-sea temperatures may be considered to be that expressed by Sir J. Herschel ( Physical Geography , 1861 , p. 45 ) in the following terms:- " In very deep water all over the globe a uniform temperature of 390 Fahr. [ 40 Cent. ] is found to prevail , while above the level , when that temperature is first reached , the ocean may be considered as divided into three great regions or zones-an equatorial and two polar .
In the former of these , warmer , in the latter colder , water is found at the surface .
The lines of demarcation are of course the two isotherms of 390 mean annual temperature .
" This doctrine , which is more fully and explicitly set forth by Dr. Wallich ( The North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' 1862 , pp. 98 , 99 ) , rests , I believe , chiefly on the temperature-observations mad'e in Sir James Ross 's Antarctic Expedition , which were not inconsistent with the prevalent belief that sea-water , like fresh water , has its maximum density at this temperature , and that consequently water at 32 ?
or 330 cannot underlie water at 39 ? .
Several instances , however , had been previously recorded , in which temperatures below 390 had been observed .
Thus Lieut. S. P. Lee , of the United States Coast Survey , in August 1847 found 370 below the Gulf-stream , at the depth of 1000 fathoms [ 1809 mnetres ] , in lat. 350 26 ' N. and long .
730 12 ' W. ; and Lieut. Dayman found the temperature at 1000 fathoms [ 1829 metres ] in lat. 51 ?
N. and long .
40 ' W. to be 320 7 ' [ 00 4 Cent. ] , the surface-temperature being 540.5 [ 120.5 Cent.]* .
" At the very bottom of the Gulf-stream , " says Lieut. Maury ( Physical Geography of the Sea , 1860 , p. 58 ) , " when its surface-temperature was 80 ' [ 260.6 Cent. ] , the deep-sea thermometer of the Coast Survey has recorded a temperature as low as 350 [ 1.'6 Cent. ] .
These cold waters doubtless come down from the north to replace the warm waters sent through the Gulfstream to moderate the cold of Spitzbergen ; for within the Arctic Circle the temperature at corresponding depths off the shores of that island is said to be only one degree colder than in the Caribbean Sea , while on the shores of Labrador and in the Polar Sea the temperature of the water beneath the ice was invariably found by Lieut. De Haven at 280 [ -20.2 Cent. ] , or 40 below the melting-point of freshwater ice .
Capt. Scoresby relates that on the coast of Greenland , in latitude 720 , the temperature of the air was 42 ?
[ 50.5 Cent. ] , of the water 340 [ 01 ?
i Cent. ] , and 290 [ -1l06 Cent. ] at the depth of 118 fathoms " t. That there is no Physical improbability in the 100 atmospheres to which their bulbs were subjected , would prevent them from recording a minimnum as low as the aclual minimum ; and it seems to us not at all improbable that the actual minimurum may have been from 2 ?
to 4 ?
lower than the recorded minimum .
In any renlewal of the inquiry , it will be of course desirable that the Thermometric apparatus used should be specially protected from this source of error .
existence of a stratuim of sea-water at a temperature of 32 ?
or even 280 below a stratum at 390 , is evident from the fact ( whichhas been experimentally established beyond question t ) that Sea-water , in virtue of its salinie impregnation , contracts continuously down to its or dinar ?
y freezing-point , which is bellow 280 Falir .
And the existence of such strata , even in Equiatorial regions , has beea regarded by high scientific authorities t as proving the existeine of deep currents bringing cold water from Polar Regions to replace the warmer water that is continually flowing , as ( notably ) in the Gulf-stream , from the Equiatorial towards the Polar Regions , as well as to make good the immenSe losS which is constantly taking place by evaporation from th surface of Tropical seas .
To such an under-current , probably proceeding from the North or North-east , the low temperatures we Journial of Capt. Ross 's Voyage , which , if there was no error in the instrument employed , gives a lower temperature than any yet recorded : laving sounded , on Sept. 19 , 1818 , in 750 fathoml-s , the registeriu0Thermometer was senit down to 680 fathoms ; and on coming up , the index of greatest cold was at 250 75 .
Niever having known it lower than 280 in former instances ( even at a depth of 1000 fathoms , and at other times when close to the bottom .
) , I was very careful in exaamining the Thermiiometer ; but could discover no other reason for it than the actual coldness of the water .
" * It is stated by M. Despretz , as the result of a series of carefully conducted experiments , that the maxiiztmn density of Sea-water cooled down coniiitnuously without agitation is at -3 67 Cent. , or 250.4 Falir .
; the freezing-point of Sea-water which is a(ritated being -2 ?
55 Cent. , or 270.4 Fahr. See his 'H Recherches sir le Maximumr .
de Densite des Dissolutions Aqueuses , " in Assnales de Cliimie , 1.833 , tom .
lxx .
p. 54 .
t This doctrine , long sinice explicitly stateed by I-IHumboldt ( Cosmos , vol. i. p. 296 ) , is thuls set forth by Prof. Buff in his I Physics of the Earth ' ( p. 194):- " The water of the ocean at great depths lias a temperature , even unider the equtator , nearly approaching to the freezing-point .
Thiis low temperature cannot depend on aly influence of the sea-bottom ... The fact , however , is explained bly a continual cuirrent of cold water flowing from the Polar regions toNvar(ds the Eqtuator .
The following wellkniowin experiment clearly illustrates the manner of this movement .
A glass vessel is to be filled with water with which some powder has been mixed , and is then to be heated at bottom .
It will sooIn be seen , fromii the motion of the particles of powder , that currenlts are set up in opposite directions through the water .
Warmii water rises from the botton , up through the middle ol the vessel , and spreads over the surface , wlsile the colder and therefore heavier liquid falls down at the sides of tlse glass .
Currents like these mrust arise in all water-basins , and eveni int the oceans , if differenit parts of their surface are uniequally heated .
Tlhc water that is cooled in the polar regions sinks and travels frotmi the poles towards the equator , puislhing away the warimer and lighter liquid from the bottom of the sea ; itself to give way in turn , as it gets warm , to the colder water that follows after it .
This continual fw olf the water from the cold zones is replaced in a twofold manner .
The w^arsi water of the tropical seas , since it is the lightest , must spread itself north and soutlth over the surface of the ocean , and thus graduially losing its heat , be carried to the polar regions .
Between the tropics , too , evaporation goes on lllost vigorously , and( a great part of the Vap6UrS formaed fall again in raini and snow only in highler latitudes .
" A. iV set of deep sonudiuc s , takeni across the Arabiasa Sea , between Adeni and Bomlbay , by Capt. Shortland , in I-I.M.S .
' hydra , ' has lately )ee.n received by the IJydrograplier to tlse Admniralty , which give a line of bottom-temnperature of 331-0 [ 00.8 Cent. ] at depths observed between lat. 60§ 45 ' and 60§ 7 ' , as shown in the followin , Table and the accompanying Map ( for which I am indebted to the kindness of the H-vdrographer to the Admiralty ) , may be pretty certainly attributed .
TABLE OF PLACES , DEPTHS , AND TEMPERATURES OF SOUNDINGS .
Warmn rea .
No. LatituLde , N. LongiDepth , in Temperature tude , W. Fathoms .
at surface .
at bottom .
1 59 20 75 At least 500 545 490 2 60 32 0 10 104 54 485 3 60 31 9 18 229 54 48 4 60 44 8 45 72 54 49 5 61 17 48 02 53 50 12 59 36 7 20 530 52 5 47*3 13 59 57 29 189 52 49-3 14 59 59 9 15 050 53 40 15 60 38 11 7 570 52 47 16 61 2 12 4 ( 350 17 59 49 12 36 60 52 46 Gold A4rea .
No. Latitude , N. LonlgiDepth , in Temperature tude , W. Fathoms .
at surface .
at bottom .
6 60 4i5 4 49 510 52 33-7 7 60 75 21 500 51 32-2 8 60 10 5 59 550 53 32 9 60 24 6 38 170 52 41 7 10 60 28 6 55 500 51 33 11 60 30 7 16 At least 4,50 50 33-2 Of its northern limit we are not able to give any account ; but about 50 miles to the southward we found the temperature at the same depth to be 150 higher [ 8§ 3 Cent. ] ; and since the like temperature showed itself at even greater depths to the westward , between lat. 590 59 ' and 600 38 ' , and inferenitially ( § 19 ) as far north as 610 2 ' , at a distance of 175 miles from the most westerly point to which we traced this cold area , it may be presumed that this area was as limited in a westerly as we found it to be in a southerly direction .
HIere , therefore , within a short distance of the Northern Coast of Scotland , an opportunity is piresented for determining with great precision the physical conditions of two opposing currents , having a difference of temnperature of at least 150 .
In such determination it of 1800 fathoms and uipwards , the surface-temperature being 75 ? .
It seems impossible to account for this fact on any other hlypothesis than that of a deep currenit from the Antarctic Polar region , which must have maintainied this extremely low temuperature throughout the vast course it has had to tr'averse .
would be very desiratble to ascertain whether the minimum temperature is that of the botto , n ( a point of fundamental importance as regards the distributioni of Animal life ) , or whether it is that of some intermediate stratum .
The deep-sea Sounding-apparatus with which we were provided only allowed the attachment of the Thermometers to the extremity of the line ; and it is possible , of course , that their minimum may represent , not the temperature of the sea-bottom , but that of some higher stratum .
Independently , however , of the physical improbability ( for the reason already stated ) that Sea-water at 320 should overlie water of any higher temperature , which would be specifically lighter than itself , we have the evidence afforded by our Sounding in 170 fathoms ( § 13 ) within the cold area , that the temperature descends progressively with the depth ; at first ( as elsewhere observed ) more rapidly , afterwards more slowly .
And as this shallow bank is of very limited extent , and the bottom in its neighbourhood must become rapidly deeper , a careful examination of the bottom-temperature of its inclined sides at different depths would furnish satisfactory data on this point .
IV .
A general comparison of the Faunae of the different localities which we had the opportunity of examining seems to warrant the conclusion that the distribution of the Animal life of the seas beyond the Littoral zone* is more closely related to the temperature of the water than to its depth .
The predominance of North British types , not merely on the southern but on the northertn side of the deep valley which separates the Faroe Banks from the coast of Scotland , and in the warm areaof the valley itself , the slight admixture of exclusively Scandinavian or Boreal forms e-ven as far north as the Faroe Islands , the larger admixture of these on the shallow bank in the cold current , the still greater proportion of Boreal forms in the deeper and yet colder waters of that current , and ( in most striking contrast with this ) the presence of forms hitherto known only as inhabitants of the warmer temperate seas at the like depth in the war m area not many mniles off , -all indicate the intimacy of the relationship between Geographical distribution and Temperature .
The existence of Boreal types in the midst of an area whose surface-temperature is 52 ?
[ 1 P1 Cent. ] , and whose bottom-temperature , even at 500 fathoms ' [ 914 metres ] depth , is generally 470 or 48 ' [ 8 ?
` 3 or 80.8 Cent. ] , is obviously a phenomenon parallel to the occurrence of Alpinie plants at a high elevationl on -mountains within the tropics ; and as every Botanist would regard such occurrence as having no relation to elevationper se , but only to eleva* The distribution of marine Aniimal life in the Littoral zone is affected by a great number of conditionis , which place it in altogether a different category from that of the deeper seas .
I aim very glad to find outr views on this point in harmony with those of my friend Mr. J. Gwyn Jeftreys .
" The bathiymetrical zones have been too much divided by Risso and subsequent authors .
There are two pr-incipal zones , littoral and sumauerine ; the nature of the habitat and the supply of food influence the residence and migiration of ta .
, nimals , not the comparative depth of water."-Annals of Natural History , 4th ser. vol. ii .
( 1-868 ) p. 303 .
p tion as affecting Temnper ature , so it is obvious that , with the evidence we are enabled to present of an abundant and varied Fauna at a depth of even 650 fathomns [ 1189 muetres ] , the Zoologist is fully justifned in attributing the far different characteer of the Fauna we encounLtered at 500 fathoms [ 914 mnetres ] with a Temperature of 32 ?
[ 00 Cent. ] to that remarkable reduction .
Further , although the nature of the bottom has doubtless an important influence on the Animal life which it suistains , yet this very condition , as will presently appear , is itself dominated in great degree by Temperature .
V. The results of ouir D3redgings fully confirm the indications afforded by the specimens of the bottom previously brought up by the Soundings already noticed , in regard to the existence , on the sea-bottom of large areas of the North Atlantic , of a stratum of " calcareous mud , " partly composed of living Globigerince , partly of the disintegriated materials of the shells of form-er generationis , and partly of the " coccoliths ' of Prof. Huxley ( loc. cit. ) and the " coccospheres " of Dr. Wallich * , with a greater or less admixture of other constituents .
And they fuLrthier indicate that the prevalence of this deposit is connected with a bottom-temperature of 450 and upwards , which , in latitudes above 560 , can scarcely be attributed to any other influence than that of the Gulf-stream .
The examination which Prof. I-nuxley has been good enough to make of the peculiarly viscid muid brought up in our last dredging at the depth of 650 fathoms [ 1189 mi'tres ] , has afforded him a remarkable confirmation of the concluision he announiiced at the recenit Meeting of the British Association , that the coccoliths and coccosplhieres are imibedded in a living expanise of pirotoplasnic substance , to which they bear the same relation as the spicules of Sponges or of Radiolaria do to the soft parts of those alnimals .
Thus it would seem that the whole myass of this mud is penetrated by a living org-anism of a type even lower , because less definite , than that of Sponges and Rlizopods ; and to this organism Professor huxley has given the name of PBIathybius 1 .
In what manner the materials for its protoplasm , as for that of the Globigerinw which usually , accomnpany it itn larger or sm-naller proportion , are obtained , is a most perplexinproblem .
All the evidence we at present possess in re , ard to the alimentation of Rhizopods , leads to the belief that , in coilmmon with higolher Animals , they depend upon the Organiic Comnpoundcs previously elaborated by Vegetative agency ulnlder the influielnce of the light andi heat of the Sun .
But every form of Vegetable life that is visible to the n-aked eve seems entirely wanlting at great depths in the ocean : and although this deposit is found by the Microscope to contain the siliceous lori-ee of Diatoms , yet these do not present thiemselves in : anything like the abunrdance that would be reouired for the nutrition of so larme a mass of Animal life as that " Remarks on some niovel Phases of Organic Lift at great depth s in the Sea , " ill 'Ann .
of Not .
list .
' ser. 3 , vol. viii .
( 1861 ) p. 52 .
P " On somnfe Organisms ' living at Great Deptls in thLlle North Atlan-tic Ocea-L ; " in Quart , Journi .
of Microse .
Society , vol. viii ; .S .
p 203 .
represented by the GloNigerina-shells ; and there appears good reason to regard them as rather representing Diatom-s which have lived at or niear the surface , and have only subsided to the bottom after death , than organiisms which habitually live and grow in the ocean-depths .
It may be that the Bathybius ( which bears a very striking resemblanice to the iRhizopod-like rnycelitrn of the Myxogastric Fungi ) has so far the attributes of a Vegetable , that it is able to elaborate Or-ganic Compounds out of the materials supplied by the mediumni in which it lives , and thius to provide sustenance for the Animals imbeddedl in its muidst .
But to whichlever of these two Kingdoms we refer it , there seems adequiate reason for regarding this Bakthybius as onie of thie chief instruments whereby the solid material of the Calcareous mud which it perv , ades is separatedc from its solution in , the oceani-waters-@ In colnlnexion with this subject it may be suggested , as a suibject well worthy of experimental inquiry , to wwhat depth the Adetinic rays pen-etrate Sea-water in sufficient intenisity to produce an appreciable effect on a hiighly sensitive surface .
Certain it is that among the Ainimals broug , ht up from great depths , bright colours are not wanting .
This was noticed by Dr. Wallich in the case of the Ophiocoren brought up from 1260 fathoms .
And not only did the Astropecten , which came up on our dredige-linle from.500 fathoms , at once attract attention by its bright orange-red hue , but the small Annelid &amp; which inhabited the Siliceous Sponge brouoht up from 650 fathoms were distian-uished1 by the vividness of their red or gre u colorationi .
VI .
Our researches have brought out with remarkable force the resemblance between this Calcareous deposit and the great Chalk-formation , which had been previously pointed out by Prof. Bailey , Prof. Huxley , and Dr. Wallich , but more particularlv by 1ir .
Sorby t , who identified the * Tle discovery of this indefinito plasmoclium , covering a wide area of the existing Sea-bottom , should afford a remiarkable confirmation , to sicch ( at least ) as still think confirnation necessary , ol the doctrine of the Organiie origin of the Serpentine-Limestono of the Laurentian Formation .
For if Bathlybiius , like the testaceous Rhizopods , could form for itself a sheolly elnvelope , that en-velope would closely resemable Diozoon .
Further , as Prof. Huxley has proved the existence of Beihybiies through a great range not merely of depth but of tenvpereture , I cannot buLt thinlk it probable that it has existed continuouLsly in the deep secs of elI Gcological Epochs .
And so far , therefore , from conisidering that the discovery of Eozoo2dl RPoc in the Liassic or evell in Tertiarry Strata , would ( as asserted by Profs .
Kinog:nd Rowney in a Paper recenitly presenited to the Geological Society ) be a conclesive disproof of its Organ-ie origin , I am fLilly prepared to believe thait Dozoo , as well as Bai'blecs , may have maintained its oxistenice th.rough the whole duration of Geological Time , from its first appearanee to the present Epoch ; and should be not in the least suprisped at bring , ing it up from 1000 or 2000 fathoms , if I should be enabled to dredge at thiose depths .
There must have been deep sects at all periods ; and the , coinsiderLcuions stated in Par. IX .
chow that the coaticlcity of Organic types is perfectly consistent with greet local chaniges .
Of such conitinutity there is niow ample evidence .
O " On the Organic Origin of the so-called Crystalloids of the Chalk , " in I Ann , of Not .
1-list .
' ser. 3 , vol. viii .
( 1861 ) p. 52 .
cc coccoliths " of Prof. Hluxlev and the " coccospheres " of Dr. 'Wallich with bodies observed in Chalk .
While the soundings , on the nature of which this conclusion was based , could Inot inidicate more thau the existence of a mere surface-layer of this material , the fact that our large dredges came up completely filled with it , and the maniier in which massive Siliceous Sponges had obviously been imbedded in it , clearly prove it to possess considerable thickness .
The existeniee of this deposit over a very large area was marked out by our Dredgings at the extreme distance of 200 mniles , and by several intermediate Soundings ; and the variations in its character corresponded closely with those which present themselves in different parts of the same stratum of Chalk .
VIT .
But besides confirming the views already pronmulgated , as to the complete dependence of this Calcareous deposit on the enormous development of low forms of Organic Life , our researches also show that the area over which this deposit is being formed is peopled by a variety of higher types of marine A-nimals , many of which carry us back in a most remarkable manner to the Cretaceous epoch .
Thus among Mollusca we have two Terebratulidee , of which one at least ( Tere6ratulina caput-ser entis ) may be certainly idenitified with a Cretaceous species , whilst the seconld ( 7aldheinia cranium ) may be fairly regarded as representing , if not lineally deseended from , another of the types of that family so abundant in the Chalk .
Among Echinoderms we have the little Rhizocrinus , that carries us back to the Apiocrinite tribe which flourished in the Oolitic period , and was intil lately supposed to have had its last representative in the Bourgetticrinus of the Chalk , to which the Rhizocrinus presents many points of remarkable correspondence e. Among Zoophytes , the OCQeliaza we met with in a living state seems generically allied to a Cretaceous type ( 0 .
explanata of Michelin ) .
Anid the remarkable abundanice of Sponges , which not improbably derive their nutriment from the protoplasmic substance that enters largely into the composition of the calcareous mud wherein they are imbedded ( p. 190 ) , is a preeminently conspicuous feature of resemblance.-We can scarcely doubit that a more systematic examination of the remarkable Formation at present in progress would place in a still stronger light the relationship of its Fauna to that of the Cretaceous period , since the specimens which our few dredgefuls contained can only be considered as a mere sample of the varied forms of Animial life which this part of the Ocean-bottom sustains .
And if ouir notion of the intimacy of ' this relationship should be confirmed by further inquiry , it would go far to prove , what seems on general groLunds highly probable , that the deposit of Globigerina-mud has beeni going on , over some part or other of the North-Atlantic sea-bed , from the Cretaceous epoch to the present time ( as there is niich reason to thinik that it did elsewhere in anterior Geological periodls ) , this mud beig , not merely a Chalk-formation , but a continuation of the Chalk* See the recently pujblished " Memoires pour servir a la coiinaissance des Crinoides vivants , ' by Prof. Sars ( Christiania , 1868 ) .
formation ; so that we may be said to be still livingg in the Cretaceous Epoch * VIII .
It can be scarcely riecessary to point out in detail those various important applications of the foregoing conclusions to Geological Science , whicn will at once occur to every Geologist who endeavours to interpret the past history of our globe by the light of the changes it is at present undergoing .
Bult this Report would not be complete without some notice of these .
In the first place , it may , I think , be conisidered as proved that no valid inference can be drawn from either the absence or the scantiness of Organic Remnains in any unmetamorphosed sedimentary rock , as to the depth at which it was deposited .
So far from the deepest waters being aZoic , it has been shown that they may be peculiarly rich in Animal life .
On the other hand , comparatively shallow waters may be almost azoic , if their temperature be low or their currents be strong ; and thus even littoral fornationis may show but few traces of the life that might be abundant on a deeper bottom at no great distance.-Again , it has been shown that two depqsits may be taking place within a few miles of each other , at the same depth and on the same geological horizon ( the area of one penetrating , so to speak , the area of the other ) , of which the Mineral character and the Fauna are alike different , -that difference being duie on the one hand to the direction of the current which has furniished their materials , and on the other to the temperature of the water brou(ght by that current .
If our " 'cold area " were to be raised above the surface , so that the deposit at present in progress upon its bottom should become the subject of exanmination by some Geologist of the futuire , he would find this to consist of a barren Sandstone , including fragments of older rocks , the scanty Fauna of which would in great degree bear a Boreal character ( ?
H. ) ; whilst if a portion of our " warm area " were elevated at the same time with the " ' cold area , " the Geologist would be perplexed by the stratigraphical continuity of a Cretaceous formation , including not only anl extraordinary abundalnce of Sponges ) but a great variety of other Animal remains , several of them belonging to the warmer Temperate region , with the barren Sandstone whose scanty Faunia indicates a widely different climatic condition , which he would naturally suppose to have prev ailed at a different period .
And yet these two conditions have been shiown to exist simultaneously , at corresponding depths , over wide contigvtons areas of the sea-bottom X in virtue solely of the fact that one area is traversed by anl Equatorial and the other by a Polar current t. Further , in the midst of the land formed by the elevation of the " cold area , " ori Geologist would find a hill somrne 1800 feet high , covered with a Sandstone continuous with that ol the land from -hich it rises , but rich in remains of Animals belonging , to a more temperate province ( § 13 ) and might easily fall into the mistake of supposing that two such differenit Fauna , occurring at differenit levels , must incdicate two distinct climlates separated in time , inistead of indicating , as they have beenl shown to do , two contemporanieous but dissimrilar climates , separated only by a few miles horizontally , and by 300 fathoms verticnlly.-It seems , searcely possible to exa-gerate the inportance of thaese facts , in their Geological and Palseontological relations , especially in regard to those more localized Formation 's which are especially characteristic of the later Geological epochs .
But eveni in regard to those older Boucks , N ; hose wicle rang , e in space and time would seem to indicate a general prevalence of similar coniditions , it may be suggested whether a diicrecilee of bottomn-temiperature , depending upon deep oceanic currenits , was not the chief determining cause of that remarkable contrast betweern the Faumn.e of dinf-erent areas in .
the same Formation , which is inldicated by the abundlance and variety of the Fossils of oue locality , and their scantin:ess and limitation of type in another ; as is seen , for exAample , wleln the " Primordial Zone " of Barrande is compared with its equivalent in North Wales.-Further , in the case of those Calcareous deposits which o we their very existence to the vast development of Organisms that possessed the power of separatinog Ca-rbonatUe of Lime from the ocean-waters , temnperature may be pretty certainly assumed to be the chief conlition , not merely of the character of the Animal remains which those formations may ihclude , but of the very production of their solid material .
IX .
Ilow important a light is thrown by the facts we have brought into view on those changes in .
the Marinie Fauna of any particular area , which cannot be referred to changes in its own geological condition , i neecl scarcely be pointed out .
As there must have been deep seas in all Geological epochs , so there must have been varieties in S'u6nrihne Climante at least as great as tbose we have discovered , depending upon those Equatorial and Polar Currents whose existence Las been shmown to be a Physical necessity .
Hence it is obvious that sinie change s in the direction of slch opposing currents must have been producedl by any upward or downward movement of the sea-bottom ( as , in the areas of clevation and subsidence marked out by Mr. Darwin in our existing seas ) a considerable inodification , or eveni a complete reversal , of the Subrrmaririe Climates of adjacent aireas miglt have beein conseqluent upon alterations in the cointour of the lanid , or in the level of the sea-bottomn at a gry-eat distance .
The effect of such a modification of Temperature upon the respective Paunim of these areas would probably depend upon the rate and degree of the cliange .
If neessary coiise'uience of the difference of surface-tcsnperaturc between Equatorial anicl Polar waters ; and those who raise the objection aro consequently bound to orier some other conceivable bypothesis oln w , , , hich the facts above stated can be accoulnited for .
rapid and considerable , it might cause the extinction over those areas of a large proportion of the species which inhabited them ; whilst others would mnigrate in the direction of the temperature most congenial to them , and transfer to new localities those types which could no longer exist ill their previous habitats , -thus establishing the Colonies of M. Barrande .
If , on the other hand , such a change of Temperature were more gradual , the greater part of the species constituting the Faunie of the areas over which it occurred might adapt thenmselves to it , undergoing such modifications in their structure and habits as might be considered sufficient to differentiate them specifically , whilst retaining so maniy characters of general similarity as to constitute " representative species " @ .
X. The ingenious suggestion of Dr. Wallicht that the nature of the Animal life found on the sea-bottom may not unifrequently afford some clue to the history of its changes of level , -his discovery at great depths of a type ( the Ophioeowa gr agntlata ) which is essentially littoral being indicative of slow progressive subsidence , -may be extenided with some probability to changes of submarine climate ; for where any species is found abulndaantlly as a littoral form , its presence at great depths in the same region wotild seem to inidicate that the suibsidence of the bottom has not been attended with any considerable alteration of tetmperature , whilst its absence on nieighboulring parts of the same area may be fairly taken as evidelnce of such a chan , e. The preparation of a detailed list of , the Species found in each locality , with the depths from wzvhich they were broug , ht up , furnishing the justification of the geiieral statenients imade in this Report , has been kiildly unidertaken by Professor Wyville Thomsoni , who will present it at the earliest practicable dlate ; and he will also describe the new and very remarkable forms of Vitr eous Sponges we have obtainied , this being a group to which he has already given special attention.-I .
shall myself lose no time in , preparing anaccount of the Piizopods we have collected , availing myself of the kinld assistance of Professor I-Huxley , who has undertaken to examine and describe the Organic components of our various specimenis of Chalk-mud , and of Professor Frankland , who will deterimine their Chemical comiposition .
Wecannot but hope that when ourReport shall have been thus completed , it may be found not unlworthy of the Royal Society by which our inquiry was promoted in the first instance , and of the Government which provided the meanls for its prosecution , and that the results we have obtained may be reg , arded as sufficienitly important to justify its extension bot ; h in range * It will be obvious to every one who is conversant with Sir Charles Lyell 's ' Principles , ' that in the views above staLted I have sim)ply extleded the doctrines long since promulgated by that great Mlaster of the Philosophy of GO-cology .
t The North-Atlantic oea-Bed , pp. I19-155 .
and objects .
For we cannot but believe that Pllysicists , Physical Geographers , Naturalists , and Geologists will alike desire such a careful and detailed exploration of the Sea-bottom between the North of Scotland and the Faroe Islands ; as may determinie with precision , -(I ) the depth in every part of that area ; ( 2 ) the temn perature , not merely of every part of the bottom , but also at variotus depths of the water that lies upon it , say , at every 50 fathoms vertically ; ( 3 ) the precise boundaries of the cold area of bottom-temperature which separates the northern and southerni portions of the warm area ; ( 4 ) the direction and rate of any current that may be detected in either or each of these areas ; ( 5 ) the relative composition of the water in these areas respectively ; ( 6 ) the relative proportions of gases contained in the sea-water at different depths , and in the same depth at different temperatures ; ( 7 ) the penetrating power ?
of the Actinic rays in their passage through Sea-water ; ( 8 ) the nature , composition , and sources of the deposits in progress over the several parts of the sea-bottom , especially distinguishing those of its warm and those of its cold tracts , as well as those along the line or band of demarcation between the two ; and ( 8 ) the distribution of Animal and Vegetable Life throughout the whole region , as complete a collection as possible being made by repeated dredgings in every part of it , so as to furnish materials for valid inferences as to the relations of its several forms to the depth , temperature , and character of the sea-bottom on which they respectively occur .
The near proximity of this area to our own shores , and the consequent facility with which a vessel may be kept at sea during the whole of the season most suitable for work of this kind , by runining for supplies to Stornoway , Lerwick , or Kirkwall ( as may be most convenient ) , renclers it peculiarly fitting for such an investigation ; for just as the limited area of the British Islands presenits an epitonme of the whole Geological series , so does this limited Oceanic area presenit such varieties of depth and temperature , and probably of currents , as are only likely to be met with elsewhere at a far greater distance from land , and over a much wider Geographical range.-But it is also greatly to be desirect that these inquiries should be prosecuted at still greater depths ; and such may be reached with no less facility by proceeding westwards from the West of Scotland or the North-west of Ireland , a depth of at least 1300 fathoms being known to exist between these C(oasts and Rockall Batnks .
It only remains for me to tender the grateful acknowledgments of Professor Wyville Thomson and myself to Her Majesty 's Governiment for the readiness with which they acceded to the recommendation of the Presidenit and Council of the Royal Society , and for the liberality with which the means of prosecutingo , ou-r inquivies were furnished by the Admiralty ; and we would in particular express our obligations to the Hydrographer to the Admiralty for the earnestness with which he took up the idea of this Expedition in the first inistaniee , the perseveranice with which he subsequently carried through every arrangement that could promote its scientific efficiency , and the colnsiderate kindness with which he provided all that was needfiul for our welfare and comfort .
Our cordial thaniks are also due to Staff-Commander May for the heartiness with which he threw himself into the work , and the thoughtful considerationi he uniformly showed , alike for the objects of the Expedition and for our personal convenience ; and to Sub-Navigating-Lieutenant Tooker , by whom Captain May 's exertions in both these respects were zealously and efficiently seconded .
We would also record our sense of the friendly reception which we met with on the part of Ilis Excellency the Governor of ' the Faroe Islauds , who , althouogh we were not in any way accredited to him , did his utmost not only to promote the Scientific objects of our visit , but also ( with the aid of his accomplished Ladv ) to render our stay at Thorshaven agreeable to us .
APPENDIX .
From the Minutes of the Council of tke Royal y Society , Jftne 18 , 1868 .
FPromit Dr ) .
Carpenter , V.P.R.S. , to the Pr-esidezt of the Royal Society .
University of London , Burlington House , W. June 18th , 1868 .
DE3AR GE]3NTERAL SABINE , -During a recent visit to Belfast , I had the opportunity of examining some of the specimens ( transmitted by Prof. Sars of Christiania to Prof. Wyville Thomson ) which have been obtained by 1 .
Sars , jun .
, Inspector of Fisheries to the Swedish Governlment , by deep-sea dredgings off the coast of Norway .
These specimens , for reasons stated in the enclosed letter from Prof. Wyville Thomson , are of singular interest alike to the Zoologist and to the PalTontologist ; and the discovery of them can scarcely fail to excite , both among Naturalists and among Geologists , a very strong desire that the zoology of the deep sea , especially in the Northern Atlantic region , sholuld be more thoroughly and systematically explored than it has ever yet beenl .
From what I ktnow of your own early labours in this field , I cannot entertain a doubt of your fuLll concurrence in this desire .
Such an exploration cannot be undertaken by private individuals , even when aided by grants from Scientiric Societies .
For dredging at great depths , a vessel of considerable size is requisite , with a trained crew , such as is only to be found in the Government service .
It was by the aid of such an equipment , furnished by the Swedish Government , that the researches of M. Sars were carried on .
Now as there are understood to be at the present time an unusual nuiLmber of gun-boats and other cruisers on our northern and western coasts , which will probably remain on their stations until the end of the season , it has occurred to Prof. Wyville Tlhomson and ml-yself , that the Admiralty , if moved thereto by the Countcil of thb Royal Society , might be iniduiced to place one of these vessels at the disposal of ourselves and of any other Naturalists who might be willing to accomipany us , for the purpose of carrying on a systematic course of deep-sea dredging for a mnonth or^ six weeks of the present summier , commnencin , early in August .
, Though we desire that this inquLiry should be extended both in geographical range and in depth as far as is proposed in Prof. Wvyville Thon1iso 's letter , we think it preferable to limit ourselves on the present occasion to a request which will not , we believe , inlvolve the extra expense of sending out a coaling-vessel .
We should propose to imake Kirkwall or Lerwick otur port of departure , to explore the sea-bottom between the Sh-etland and the Faroe Islands , dredging aroLnd the shores and in the fiords of the latter ( which have not yet , we believe beenl scienitifically exax ' ined ) , and then to proceed as far north-west into the deep water between the Faroe Islands and Icelanid as may be founid practicable .
It would be desirable that the vessel prov7ided for such a service should be onie capable of umaking way under canlvas , as well as by steam-power ; but as our operationis must necessarily be slow , speed would not be rlecuired .
Considlerable labour would be spared to the crew if the vessel be provided with a " donkeyeng , in " that could be used for pulling up the dredoe .
If the Council of the Royal Society should deem it expedienit to prefer this requLest to the Admiralty , I trust that they may further be willing to place at the disposal of Prof. WAyville T1hom11 , son11 and myself , either from the Douation Fund or the Government-Granllt Funld , a suns of ?
100 for the expenises wAe0 must incur in providing an amiiple supply of spirit and of jars for the preservation of specimens , witn other scientific appliances .
Ve would undertake that the choicest of suLch specimens shotuld be deposited in the British Museum .
I shall be obliged by your bringing this subject before the Council of the Royal Society , and remaini , Dear General Sabine , you1rs faithfully , The Ptresldenlt of the Royal Society .
WILLIAM 13 .
CAi .
PriNTER .
Fro ?
n Prof. TVyville T1tooisonl Belfast , to Dr. Opcnter , T.P.B.S. May 30 , 1868 .
MvY PEA &amp; R C2VR .
PnNrnu,2-WClVeui I last saw you , I suggesteed how very importeant it would be to the advancement of science to determilne with accuracy the conditions and distribLution of Animial Life at great depths in the ocean ; I iow resuume the facts and consideratfions which lead me to believe that rescareises iss this direction promise valuable results .
All recent observations telnd to negative Edward Forbes 's opinion that a , ero of animal life was to be reachled at a depth of a few hundred fiathoms .
Tw\vo years ago , Al .
Sars , Swedish Goverume'n Tns -eto'r of Fisheries had an oppostulnity isl his official capacity of dredgino ofi the toffoden Islahids at a depth of 300 fathosuis .
I visited Norway shortly after his retusrn , a"nd ha ' an opportuniity ' of studyinog with his father , Prof. Sas , r some Oc hiiresLlts Aniisal foriss were abandant ; many of them wet newx to science ; and anmong them was onie of surpassing interest , the snmall Criinoid of welish 0ou0 nave a specimnen , and which we at onice recoonized as a degraded type of the A1piodrhidac , na order lli-therto egca.rdedas extinc7t which attained its naxiusam in the Pear-escerinites of the Jurassic Period , and whose latest represesitative Ihitherto knowsi was the Boo1guctticrfnus of the Clialk .
Somue years previously , M. Absjorusen , dredging in 200 fathomns in the Tlardelnger:rjoid , procured several exalispLes of a Stasfiis ( Brisinga ) wNvhich seems to fisid its nearest ally isi the fossil genus Protester .
These observe , ations place itbeyonid a doubt that assisual life is abundtant in the ocean at depths varying from 200 to 300 fathoms , that the forms at these great depths differ greatly from those met with in ordinary dredg , ings , and that , at all events in some cases , these animals are closely allied to , and wouLld seem to be directly descended from , the fauna of the early Tertiaries .
I think the latter result might alimost have been anticipated ; an probably further investigation will add largely to this class of data , and will give us an opportunity of testin(g ouLr determination of the zoological position of some fossil types by an examination of the soft parts of their recent representatives .
The meain cause of the destruction , the migration , and the extreme modification of Animal types , appears to be change of climate , chiefly depending upon oscillations of the earth 's crust .
These oscillations do not appear to have ranged , in the northern portion of the Northern Hemisphere , much beyond 1000 feet since the commencement of the Tertiary epoch .
The temperature of deep water seems to be constant for all latitudes at 390 ; so that an immnense area of the North Atlanitic iu-st have had its coinditions unaffected by Tertiary or Post-tertiary oscillations .
One or two other quLestions of the highest scienltific interest are to be solved by the proposed investioations : Ist .
The effect of pressure upon Animal life at great depths .
There is great mnisapprehension oln this point .
Probably a perfectly equal pressure to anzy amo-unt would have little or no effect .
Air being highly compressible , and water compressible only to a very slight degree , it is probable that under a pressure of 200 atmospheres , w"ater may be even more a6rated , and in that respect more capable of supporting life , than at the surface .
2nd .
The e-ffect of the great diminution of the stimulus of Light .
From the condition of the Cave Faunia , this latter agent probably affects only the development of colour and of the organs of sight .
I have little doubt that it is quite practicable , with a small heavy drecdge , and a couple of miles of stouIt -Manilla rope , to dredge at a depth of 1000 fathoms .
Such , an undertakino would , however , owingo to the distance , and the labour involved , be quite beyoned the reach of private enterprise .
What I am therefore anxious for is , that the Admiralty may be induceld , perhaps at the instance of the Council of the Royal Society , to send a vessel ( such as one of those which accompanied the Cable EExpedition to take soundings ) to carry out the researclL .
I sho-uLld be ready to go any time after July ; and if you Lwould take part in the investigation , I cannot but believe that it would give good results .
I woould propose to start from Aberdeen , and to go first to the Rockall fishing-bankls , where the depth is moderate , and thence north-westward , towards the coast of Greenland , rather to the north of Ca pe Farewell .
We should thus keep pretty nearly alongw the isotherm of 390 , shortly reaching 1000 fathoms depth , where , allowing 1000 feet for oscillations in level , and 1000 feet for influence of surface-currents , smumrner h-eat , &amp;c. , we should still have 4000 feet of wate-r whose colnditions have probably not varied greatly since the commilelncement of the Eocene epochl .
Your most truly , WYVIILLE Tsro-rseN .
These letters having been considered , it was Resolved , -That the proposal of Drs. Carpeniter and W\yville Thomisona be approved , and recommended to the favourable consideration of the authorities of the Admiiralty ; and that a sum , of not exceeding ?
100 , be advanceed from the Donation Fund to meet the expenses referred to in Dr. Carpenter 's letter .
The following draft of a letter to be written by the Secretary to the Secretary of the Admiralty was approved : MY LoRD , Iam directed to acquiaint youi , for the information of the Lords Commissioners of the Adlmiralty , that the President and Council of the Royal Society have had under their consideration a proposal by Dr. Carpenter , VicePresident of the Royal Society , and Dr. Wyville Tholllson , Professor of Natural IHistory in Queen 's College , Belfast , for conducting dredging operations at greater depths than have heretofore been atteml'pted in the localities wNvhich they desire to explore the miiain purpose of such researchles being to obtain inforlmlation as to the existence , miode of life , and zoological relations of marine animials living at great depths , with a view to the soluition of variotus questions relatin to animal life , and having an important bearing ; on Geology and PaLeontology .
The objects of the operations which they wislh to undertake , and the course which they would propose to follow , as well as the aid they desire to obtain fiem the Admiralty , are lmlore ftully set forth in the letter of Dr. Carpenter to the President , and that of Professor Thomson , copies of which I herewith enclose .
The President and Council are of opinion that important advantages may be expected to accrue to science from the proposed undertaking ; accordingly they strongly recommend it to the favourable consideration of I-Ter Majesty 's Government , and earniestly hope that the Lords Commissioners of the Admiiiralty may be disposed to grant the aid requested .
In such case the scientific appliances required would be provided for from fnlds at the disposal of the Royal Society .
Iam , &amp;c. , W. SHIARPEY , Sec. R.S. Lord H. Lennox , MAP .
, Secretary of the Achnirialty .
Fromn the Minutes of the Council of the Royal Society for October 20 , 1868 .
Admiralty , 14th July , 1868 .
SIn1 In leply to your letter of the 22nd ultimo , submitting a proposition from Dr. Carpenter and Professor Thomson to investigate , by means of dredging , the bottom of the sea in certain localities , with a view to ascertain the existence and zoological relationis of marine animals at great depths , -a research which you and the Coulncil of the Royal Society strongly recommend in the interests of science to the favourable consideration of 17e1r Majesty 's Government , for aid in furtherance of the undertaking , -I am commanded by My Lords Coimmissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that they are pleased to meet your wishes so far as the Service will admit , and have given orders for ITher M &lt; ajesty 's steam-vessel ' Lightning ' to be prepared immediately , at Pembrolke , for the purpose of carrying out such dredg , ing operations .
I am , Sir , Youir obedient Servant , WV .
G. ROirAINE .
To the iPresident of the ioyel Society .
The Society then a(djourined over the Christmas PRecess to 'T'hursday , January 7 , 1869 .

