12 .
" A Comparison of the late Imperial Standard Troy Pound Weight with a Platina copy of the same , and with other Standards of authority .
" Communicated by Professor Schumacher , in a Letter to Francis Bailey , Esq. , V.P. and Treas .
of the Society .
Professor Schumacher being desirous of procuring an accurate copy of the English Imperial Standard Troy pound weight , for the purpose of comparison with the Danish weights , applied to Capt. Kater , requesting him to cause such copy to be made ; which was accordingly done .
It was made of brass by Bate ; but the result of the weighings not being satisfactory to Professor Schumacher , he desired to have a second copy forwarded to him .
As these two copies did not agree in their results , the first was returned to Capt. Kater with a request that be would repeat the weighings .
The result confirmed Professor Schuraacher 's suspicions : and as it was not thought proper that , in an affair of so much importance as the comparison of the standard weights of two nations , any source of discordance should exist , or even be suspected , ( the preceding experiments having been made with a copy of the Imperial standard weight ) the Danish Government sent over Capt. Nehus ( of the Royal Danish Engineers ) to this country for the express purpose of making comparisons with the original standard , in the possession of the Clerk of the House of Commons .
The weighings took place in the Apartments of this Society , and were partly made with Ramsden 's balance , belonging to the Society .
Besides the first brass weight above mentioned , there was another brass weight made by Robinson , a platina weight made by Cary , the brass pound weight belonging to the Royal Mint , and the platina pound weight belonging to this Society .
These were all subjected to a most rigid and accurate series of weighings by Capt. Nehus , in which every precaution was taken to insure the most correct results .
It would be impossible here to follow Capt. Nehus through all his details : but it may be sufficient now to state that upwards of 600 comparisons were made with the English Imperial standard , all of which are apparently very accordant ; but , on account of a singular circumstance connected with the original stand ?
ard , do not possess that degree of precision , nor afford that satisfaction which ought to attach to an affair of so much importance .
For , it appears that not only the specific gravity of the original standard had never been ascertained , but that we are even ignorant of the kind of metal of which it was composed : some persons maintaining that it was of brass , others of copper , and others of bellmetal .
And , as the original was totally destroyed in the late fire which consumed the two Houses of Parliament , we cannot now supply this omission .
It is well known that the specific gravity of brass may vary from 7*5 to 8*5 ; so that a difference of at least -i of 21 a grain might arise from this circumstance alone ; setting aside a number of other particulars that require minute attention , and which do not seem to have been attended to in former experiments of this kind .
In fact , as Professor Schumacher remarks , though we have thus five different pounds in excellent preservation , and com ?
pared with the lost standard , with the greatest care and the best instruments , though the number of these cemparisons exceeds 600 , yet there still remains an uncertainty as to its real weight ; and this solely on account of its specific gravity and expansion not being known .
And , he adds , that it is to be hoped that no pound will in future be declared a legal standard unless these elements ( the knowledge of which is indispensable even for a single comparison with a good balance ) are previously determined with the greatest possible precision .
Besides the account of these numerous weighings , which are stated in detail , Professor Schumacher has given various formulas and tables which will be found of great use and application in any future experiments of a like kind that may be undertaken .

