495 1^71 .
] Dr. J. Casey on Cy elides and from specimens of portions of the skull in the British Museum , and from a cast and photographs of the entire* cranium in the Australian Museum at Sydney , New South Wales .
The descriptions of the mandible , and of the dentition in both upper and lower jaws , are taken from actual specimens in the British Museum , in the Museum of Natural History at Worcester , and in the Museum at Adelaide , S. Australia , all of which have been confided to the author for this purpose. .
The results of comparisons of these fossils of Nototheriumwith the answerable parts in Phascolarctos , and Phascolomys are detailed .
Characters of three species , Nototherium Mitchelli , N. inerme , and N. Victories , are defined chiefly from modifications of the mandible and mandibular molars .
A table of the localities where fossils of Nototherium have been found , with the dates of discovery and names of the finders or donors , is appended .
The paper is illustrated by subjects for nine quarto Plates .
II .
" On Cyclides and Sphero-Quartics .
" By John Casey , LL. D. , M.R.I.A. Communicated by Prof. Cayley , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The curves and surfaces considered in this paper are , I believe , some of the most fertile in properties in the whole range of geometry .
For the pur- , pose of giving a full and comprehensive discussion , I have divided the paper into several chapters .
The following is an outline of the method of investigation pursued , together with a statement of some of the results arrived at .
If we take the most general equation of the second degree in ( a , ft , y , where these variables denote spheres instead of planes , ( a bedlmnpqy\gt ; S , )2=0 , we get the most general form in which the equation of a quartic cyclide can be written .
Setting out with this equation , I have proved that a quartic cyclide is the envelope of a variable sphere , whose centre moves on a given quadric , and which cuts orthogonally the Jacobian of the spheres of reference ( a , / S , y , B ) .
The Jacobian of ( a , ft , y , B ) can be written in a form identical with that of the imaginary circle at infinity in the system of quadriplanar coordinates .
The square of the Jacobian can be expressed by an equation of the second degree in a , ft , y , B. This equation assumes a very simple form when a , ft , y , B are mutually orthogonal .
By means of it I have shown that every quartic cyclide can be written in the canonical form , ace + bft2 + cy2 + + ee2 = 0 , where a , ft , y , B , e are five spheres mutually orthogonal .
These are spheres of inversion of the cyclide , and by incorporating constants their equations are connected by an identical relation , a2 -J- / l2 + ya+o2+12=0 .
496 Dr. J. Casey on Cyclides and Sphero-Quartics .
[ June 15 , From these equations I have shown that in general a quartic can be generated in five different ways as the envelope of a variable sphere which cuts a given sphere orthogonally , and whose centre moves on a given quadric , which , on account of one of its most important properties , I have named the focal quadric of the cyclide .
Every cyclide has , in general , five focal quadrics j these focal quadrics are confocal ; their focal conics are double , or " nodo-foci ** of the cyclide .
I have shown that the locus of the single or ordinary foci of cyclides are sphero-quartics ( curves of intersection of a sphere and a quadric ) .
In general a cyclide has five focal sphero-quartics .
If we call confocal two cyclides having in common one focal sphero-quartic , through any point can be described three cyclides confocal with a given cyclide .
These confocals are mutually orthogonal .
Other methods of generating cyclides are also given j thus three circles in space being given , whose planes are diametral planes of a given sphere , and which are orthogonal to the sphere , a cyclide will be generated by a variable circle in space which rests on these three circles .
This method is analogous to that for describing ruled quadrics by the motion of a line .
The equation of a cyclide may be interpreted in three different ways :\#151 ; 1 , so as to denote a cyclide j 2 , a sphero-quartic ; 3 , a tangent cone to the cyclide .
Hence it follows that sphero-quartics , both in their modes of generation and in many of their properties , bear a striking analogy to cyclides .
Thus the canonical form of the equation of a sphero-quartic is aa2+\#163 ; /32+cy2+ d\lt ; ?=0 , where a , / 3 , y , are circles on a given sphere U ; the poles of the planes of a , / 3 , y , with respect to U are the vertices of the four cones which can be described through the Sphero-quartic .
The equations of a , / 3 , y , are , by incorporating constants , connected by an identical relation , a2 + / 32+y2 + ti2=0 .
By means of this relation , which holds also for bicircular quartics , I have got the equations of the four focal sphero-conics of the sphero-quartic .
These sphero-conics are constructed geometrically as the intersections with U of perpendiculars from its centre on the tangent-planes to the four cones which can be drawn through the sphero-quartic .
The focal sphero-conics are confocal , their foci being the double or nodo-foci of the sphero-quartic .
Sphero-quartics may be inverted into bicirculars ; they may also be projected into bicirculars , and that in two ways .
First , on either plane of circular section of the quadric , whose intersection with the sphere is the sphero-quartic by lines parallel to the greatest or least axis of the quadric ; second , by elliptic projection\#151 ; that is , by lines of curvature of confocal quadrics passing through each point of the sphero-quartic .
The developable formed by tangent planes to the sphere U , at every point of the sphero-quartic , possesses many geometrical properties .
Thus the cone whose vertex is at the centre of U , and which stands on its cuspidal edge , may be generated by the focal lines of a variable cone osculating one cone of the second degree , and having double contact with another .
The cuspidal edge and the nodal lines of the developable may be projected 1871 .
] Dr. J* Casey on Cyelides and into the evolute and the focal conics of a bicircular quartic .
The developable possesses numerous anharmonic properties ; thus all its generators are divided homographically by the nodal lines and the sphere U. In the chapters on the inversion and classification of cyclides , I have proved that the presence or absence of nodes depends on the relative positions of the focal quadric and sphere of inversion ; thus if they touch there will be a conic node , the cyclide being in this case the inverse of a quadric , which is an hyperboloid or ellipsoid according as the node has a real or imaginary cone of contact .
If they osculate , the cyclide will be the inverse of a paraboloid ; the node will be biplanar if the paraboloid be an elliptic or hyperbolic one , and it will be uniplanar if the paraboloid be cylindrical .
If the focal quadric and sphere of inversion have double contact , the cyclide will be the inverse of a cone of the second degree , and will have two nodes , which must be conic nodes .
When a cyclide has nodes , the number of focal quadrics suffers diminution .
I have given in the same chapters the equations and the singularities of the tangent cones , and shown that in general every cyclide has as many double tangent cones as it has focal quadrics ; in fact the double tangent cones are the reciprocals of the asymptotic cones of the focal quadrics .
It is also proved that the lines of intersection of a cyclide , with its spheres of inversion , are lines of curvature on the cyclide , and that the imaginary circle at infinity is a flecnodal curve on its surface of centres .
In the chapter on the classification of sphero-quartics I have given Chasles 's characteristics for the osculating circles of a sphero-quartic .
By inversion we get the characteristics for the osculating circles of bicircular quartics .
Thus V=24 for these circles .
In the same chapter Professor Cayley 's equations , giving the singularities of the cuspidal edges of deve-lopables , are transformed so as to give the singularities of the evolute of a plane curve , any three of the singularities of the curve being given .
The last two chapters contain an account of the substitutions by which , from properties of quadrics , may be inferred corresponding properties of cyclides .
These chapters are in reality an exposition of a new method of geometrical transformation ; in fact , since the general equation in a , / 3 , y , \lt ; 5 which I employ is the same in form as the general equation of a quadric , only that in my method the variables denote spheres in place of planes , it will be readily seen that the theories of invariants , reciprocation , \amp ; c. in the geometry of surfaces of the second degree have their analogues in the theory of cyclides , and , in fact , the modes of proof employed in one apply also in the other .
This method of transformation is very fertile ; I have illustrated it by numerous theorems .
Thus the locus of the centre of a variable sphere cutting in two sphero-quartics having double contact , two cyclides having a common sphere of inversion is the developable circumscribed about the focal quadrics of these cyclides , which correspond to the common sphere of inversion , 2 it VOI , .
XIX ,

