the field of the photometer _m= joo ; ) the intensity of the illumination at the field of the photonleter(=:9 ) will be expressed by the fraction IO02 _ IOOOO ; 0vand the relative intetlsity of any other light which is compared with it , according to the directions before given , may be found btr the followingproportion : calling this light 137 pUttilig S= itis intensity at its sotlrce , and n= its distance from the field of the photonzeter , expressed in Engiish inches , as it is Y2 = mX2 as uras shown in Iny former letter , or instead of mX Writing itS value l 0OOO it will be nz =I woooo and consequent]y y is to z as n2 is to zoooo ; or the intensity of the light B at its source , is to the intensity eJ : the standard light A at its sourcen as the square of the distance of the light B from the tniddle of the field of the instrume2at ?
expressed in jilches , is to soooo ; and hence it is y=n1 oooo Or , if the light of the sun or that of the mooll be compared : with the light of a given lamp or candle C , the result of such comparison may lDest be expressed in rords , by saying , that the light of the celestial lumstlary in question , at the surface of t1pe evrtb , or which is the same thing , at the field of the photorneter , is eqlual to the light of the givell lamp or candle ?
, at the distancefound by t1Je experir^zent ; ots putting a= the intensity of the light of this iamp C at its source , andp -its distance itl inches from the fields when the shadouts corresponding to this light , and that corresponding to the celestial luminary in question-g are found to be of equal detasities ; an{l putting Z the illten sity of the rays of the lulninary at the surface of the earth3 the result of the experiment may be exrpressed thus , Z_ pa &gt; + See my fiormer letter .
or the real rralue of a being determined by a particular experimcat , made expressly for that purpose with the standard lamp , that value may be writtetl insteacl of it .
When the standard lamp itself is inade use of , instead of the lamp C , then the value of a will be o. I have been the : more particular in this account of the instrunzents employed in tlnese inquiries , the manner in which the experiments were conducted , arsd the principles upon which the conclusions drawn from them are foutlded , not only because the subject being newt , the most particular itlformation UpOl1 all these points is absolutely necessary , to enable others to judge snlith certainty of the matter submitted to their exami-nation , buot also because I nvas very desirous of afforcling everyinformation and assistal-lce itl my powerto those utho may be disposed to prosectlte these very curious and elltertaining re sea3nches .
Hoping that this apology may be thought sufficient to excuse the prolixity of these descriptions , I shall now proceed to give a short account ; of such exl)erime ; nts as I have hitherto found leisure to nzalie with this apparatus .
My first attempts were to determine how far it might be-^ possible to ascertain , by direct experiments , ti-le certainty of the assumed law of the dimlnution of the intelasity of the light emitted by Eluminours bodies ; namely , that the intellsity of the light is every where as tl:e squares of the distances from the lutninotls body illversely .
These experiments appeared to me the lmore necessary , as it is quite-evident that this lanv can only hold goocl when the light is propagXated ill perfectly trans parent or unresistirzg spaces , orw where9 sufEering no diminu tion whatever frvt ] the nnediulul its intensity is veakerled merelyin:consequenc-eofthe divergencyoftlleSrays ; ; and as it is more than probable that air , even in its purest state , is fat from being perfectly transparent .
For greater perspicuity I shall arrange all my experiments and inquiries under general heads and shall begirl by prefising to those wthich relat:e to the -suEbject now under considerationa the general title of Experzzents upon the Resistance of the idir to Light .
EXPER IMENT I. Two equal wax-candles well tritnmeds and which &gt; Xvere found by a previous experiment to burn with exactly the salnedegree of brightrless , rear placed together on one side , before the photometer and their united light was couaterbalanced by the light of an ARGAND'S lamps well trimmed , and btlrning very equally , placed on the other side over against them .
The lamp was placed at the distance oiS loo inches from the field of the photometer , andvit was found that the t^^ro burning candles ( Whi-Cla urere placed as near together as possilJlen withlout their flalnes aSectlng each other by the currents of air they prodced ) were just able to counterlealance the light of the lamp at the field of the photometer , when they were placed at the distance of 60,8 inches from that fielciJ One of the candles being now taken au7ay and extirlguished the other Bas brought nearer to the field of the instrulnent , till its light was found to be just able , sitzgly to counterbalance the light of the-lamp ; ard this was found to happen when it hadM arrived at the distance of 4g,4 inches .
In this experiment , as the candles burnt with equal brightness , it isevident that the intensities of their ul}ited and sillgle li ; hts eere as 2 to 1 , and in that proportion ought , according to the assumed theory , the squares of the distanc.es , 60)8 and +S4 to be ; and in fact , 6o,8 = 3696,64 is to 4g , + 188S , $6 as g is to 1 very nearly .
Again , in another experiment ( No. e. ) the distances were ; with two candles _ *54 inches .
Square-29t6 .
with one candle = g8,6 .
= 1489 &gt; 96 Upon another trial ( experiment No. .
) with to candles = $4,6 inches .
Square = 298l , l6 with one caladle = 9)7 .
_ sS76 , oS ?
Atad in the 4th experoinaelat with two candles = ^58n4 incli4s Square = 34lo , S6 with oze candle 421l2 .
=1780 &gt; 84 A &gt; ad taking the mean of the results of these four experiments .
Squares of the distances .
With tvo candles .
With one cElndlee. .
Irl the ex ?
erilnentS No. 1 , g696,64 No. 2 &gt; G9l6 .
No g 2981 , x6 No. 4 ? ?
341 o,56 4 ) 1 3O04 ?
36 WIeans , :3251,09 ... .
sw alen agaln are very neary as 2 to the litnits of the inconsiderable ( listances atwhich the candles were placed from thevphotonaeter , in that case the distance of the two egual lights united ought to be to the distance of one of them single , itl a ratlo less than that of the square roots of 2 to the square root of 1 .
For if the intellsity of a light emitted by a luminous bodyX in a SIJACE void of ait1 reszstance , be dimi ; llshed ila the proportion of the squares of the distances , it must of necessity be dimiaished in a $till higlner ragio when the light passes through a resisting mediun1 , or one which is not perfiectly transparent : and from the diirence of those ratioss llatnelyX that of the squares of t3:ze distances and that other higher ratwio fotlud by the experimel1t , the resistance of thei medium trligllt be ascertailed .
This T have tlke much p-ain$ to do with resp$ec-t to airX bult have tot as yet succeeded ill these edeavours , the transparency of air being so , reat that the ditninution which light suffers in passing through a few inches , war even through several free ?
t of it , is llot sensible .
Harring found , upon repeated trials , that the light of a lampJ properly trimlued , i.s Illcorrlparably more equal than that of a -candle , whose wlck colltinually growing longer renders its light extremely fluctuating , I substituted lalnps tc ) candles in these experiments , and made such other variations in the mantler of conducting them , as I thought bid fair to lead to a discovery of the resistance of the air to lights were it possible to render that resistance setlsible within the confined linzits of. .
my mactllllery .
Having provided two lansps , the one an ARGAND)S amP9 which I made to burn with the greatest possible brilliancy ; the other a small columon larnp with a single , round , and tery small wick which burning with a very clearX steady flames and without any visible smoke , emitted only about 2t5 part as much light as the ARGAND)S lamp f these laulps being placed over against each other before the field of tttle pl-lOtOHReter9 their lights were found to be in equilibriuln when the le$s being placed at the distance of 20 inches from the centre of that field , the greater was removed to the distatlee of loi inches .
I now concluded , that if the less light were to be removed to the distance of 40 inches , it would 13e necessary , in order to restore the equilibrium of lightg or equality Of the shadows in the field of the photo-meterf to remove the greater light to the distance of 202 inches 7 that is to say , if the ditni nutio-n of the ligh.t arising from the imperfect ftra &lt; spvlrency of the air should not be perceptible within the limiis of that dis tance .
But if on the contrary , it should be found UpQN repeated trials7 that the equilibrium was restored wi-len the greater light had arrived at a distance short of 202 itlChes ?
I might thence conclude , that such effect might safely be attributed to the imperfect transparency of the air : for notwithstanding that the light of the srrlaller lamp would of course be diminished as well as that of the greater , yet as there is every reason to suppose that the diminution , whatever it may be mtlst ever be proportional to the distance tilrout , which the ligElt passes in the medium , as the auglneatation of the distance througl ] which the light cf the smaller laltlp passes is no more than go inches , svililet.hat of the greater is made to pass through atl additional ( listance , alalounting to More t]lan ooo inchesn it is evident that the dirninution of the light-of the g-reater lamp- , arising from the imperfect transparency of the medium , must be greater than the aiminution of the light of th@ less lamp , arising from the saKme cause ; and , consequet Jr ; 1mDCCsCIV N that the eiects of such diminlltion would become apparent in the experiment , were they in reality considDerable .
The following table will show the results of theXexperimersts which were made with a view to determirle that fact Distance of the smaller Light .
* inches .
S First dist. 20 2 Second dist. 40 S First di-st .
go } Secorldhdist 40 i , First dist. 20 } Second dist. 40 4 , First dist. 20 2 Second dist. 40 i , First dist. o7 Second ( list .
zoo 2 First dist.,5o }-Seconddlist .
zoo S First dist. o ?
Second dist. zoo S First dist. o No. .
S. 2 Second dist. zoo Second dis tance of the greater light , co ?
Z@uted according to the assumed law : of the squares of the distances inches , .
202 20 In6 so3 200 191 190,2 192 DifFerence between the leSUlt ff5 the experiment and the the -ory .
inches F -2n } .
+1_ 2 .
+1+ ',4 llistance of the greater Light .
w __ inches .
First dist. sol Second dist. 203 First dist. 100n2 Secconddist .
198 , First dList .
loo,8 Second dist. 20221 First dist. Or , Second dist. 2o4 First dist loo Second dist. 198 First dist. 9S , S Second dist. 192,2 First dist. 9S , o Seconddist .
19l,2 First dist. 96 Second dist. 192n4 4. .
, xpersments .
6* 7 No. .
No. NQ .
8 .
No. 9 .
No. 1.Q .
No. No. o. In the four last experimeratsS instead of the small lamp above desc &lt; ibed , a co-mmonfARGAND lamp was made use of , the wick of which sras only drawn out so far as to cause it to emit about N part as much light as these other ARGAN:zD'S lamp , burningf with its greatest brilliancy , hich was placed over against ito In order that : in judging of the equality of the shadows , y mmitixl might be toUlly unblassed lby myoexpectationS or by any probabIe issue of the various experiments-g }eepitig my etre constantly fixed u-pon the field of the photometerg and causing the lighta whose corresponding shadow was to be brout to be of equal density with the standardn to move backw-ards and forwards , by means of the willth which I had constantly in my hand as soon as the shadows appeared to nze to be l ?
er fectly equal I gae notlee to an assistant to observe add si lently to wnte downa the distance of the Iamp or candle , so -that I did not even know what that distance was till the expe. .
riment was ended and till it was too late b attempt to collect anywsupposed ermrs of my eyes by my wishes or bytmy expectationsa had I been weak enough to have had a wisht-Xa a matter of this kind .
Ii do not linow that any predllection I might have had for any farrourite ffieoxyS would have beens able to have operated so strongly upon my minds and upon my senses as to have made black and white appear to me otherwise than as they really were ; but this I know that I was very $1ad to find means to avoid being ledf tntv tenaptatzon .
But to return to the fibregoing experimexlts ; the results of them so fir from a5ording means for ascertaining the resistance of the air to light do not even indicatwe any resstance at all S on the contrary it might almost be infbrred from sc3me of them , that the intensity of the light enlitted by a luminous body in air is diminished in a ratio las than that of the sqvlares of the distances S but as such a conclusion would involve a ) ... evident absurditb namely that l-2ght moving in air ) its abs } lute quantity instead of being diminished actually goes oz +Q SPrease , that conclusion can by no meansXbe admitieu .
N X Besides the experiments above mentioned , I made a great nunber of others similar to them , anal with the same view &gt; but as their results were all nearly the same , I have n.ott thought it worth while to lengthell my letter by illserting a particular ac ' count of thema In generaI theyall conspired to show that the resistallee of the air to light was too incolasiderable to be perceptible X and xthat the asstlmed law of the climinution of the intensity of the light may with safety ; be depended on .
That the tracnsparency of air iz its purest state is very greats is evident from the very considerable distance-s aJc which obiectsX and such everl as are but ; faintly illuminated , are visildle X and I was by no means surprised that its want of transparency could not be rendered sensible in the small distance to which my exeriments were necessarily con-fined : but still I think means may be fotlild for rendering its resistance to light apparent , and even of-subjecting that resistance to some tolerably accu rate measure .
An accurate dete-rmination of the relatlve intensity of the sun 's or moon 's lightvi-hen seen at difFerent heights above the 41orizonn or when seen from the topn and from the botton ] of a very laigh tnountainn in very clear weather , would probably ; lead to a discovery of the real amollnt of the resistance of theair to lightDe .
Of the : S , oss of Light in its Pclssage fthrough Plates or Panes ot dffierent Kinds Qf Glass .
In these experirne-nts I proceeded in the following matlner:l1aving provided tsro equal ARGAND'S lampsn A and B7 well ttimuzedS and burning witha very clear bright flames , they were placed over against each other before the photometer , each at the distance of loo inches from the Seld of the instrument , and the light of B was brought to be of the same intensity as that of-An or the szhadows were brought to be of the same Xdensity , which was done by lengfhening or shortening the wick of the latnp ESS as the occasion requiredX This donen and the two lamps now burning with precisely the same degree of brilliancyn a patle of fine ) clearn transparentv well polishetl -glass , stlch as is commonly made use of in the construction of looking-p ; lasses , sis inches square5 p]aced vertically upon a standn in a small fratne &gt; i was interposed before theW lamp B , at the distance of about four feet from it , and in such a position that the light etnitted by it was obliged to go perpendicularly throli+gh the middle of the pane , in orcter to arrive at the fieId of the photometer The consequence of this was , that the light of the lanlp B being diminished and weakened in its pas sage through the glassw the illuminations of the shadows in the field of the photometer were nolonger equal , the shadow corresporlding to the lamp A being now less enlightened by the light of the lamp B , than the shadowcorresponding to the lamp B was enlightened by the undimillished light of the .
lamp A. To determine precisely the exact amount of this ditmtnution of the light of the lamp B ( which was the malrl obj !
ect of the experiment ) , nothing more was necessary than to-bring this lamp nearer to the field of the photometerj till its light passing though the glass should be in equilibrium with these direct light of the lamp AX or , in other words , till the equality of the shadows should be restored and this I f4UIld actually happened when the lamp B , from oo inches , wa-s-brought to thg distaince of90,2 inches from the field of the photometer .
Now as it has already been shown that the itltbnsities of the lights are as the squares of their distances from the field of the phototneter , the illuminations being equal at that field , it is evident that the light iof the lamp B was diminisheds in this experimenty in its passage through the pane of glass , in ... .t the ratio of zoo to 9o,2* , or as 1 to,8o6 ; so that no more than,8136 parts of the light which impinged against the glass found its way through it ; thet other,864 parts being dispersed and lost .
To assure myself that the lamps still continued to emit the same relative quantities of light as at the beginning of the experiment , I now removed the pane of glass , and found that the equality of the shadows was again restored , when the lamp B arrived at its fornzer station , oo inches from the field of the photometer .
This experiment I repeated no less than to times , and foundt the loss of light in its passage through this pane of glass , taking a mean of all the experiments , to be , l97g parts of the whole quantity that impinged against it ; the variations in the results of the ^7arious experiments being from , l720 to 92108 .
In foalr experiments , with another pane of the same kind of -glass , the loss of light was , l8g6 ; , l732 , ,20S6 , and , l84Sg ; meall,869 .
Wh$ll the two panes of this glass were placed before the lamp B , at the same time , but without touching each other and the light made to pas-s through them both , the loss of light in four different experimentss was,3O89 ; &gt; S259 ; , &gt; 3eog &gt; and,3180 ; mean , X8+ .
With another pane of glass of the same kind , lout a little thinnera the mean loss of l ; i:ght , in four experiments , was , 18 $. .
With a very thin cl-ean ; pane of clear wAiite , or colourless window-glass , not groilrld , the less of light ?
in four exper ; mentsS was 1324 , l218\#162 ; 1Xxt ) ?
and 1297 ; mEean12639 .
When the experiment was made vst11 this salve pane of glass a very little dirty , the loss of light was more ; thang doubled &lt; - , ffi Might not this apparatus be very usefu-lly employed by the optician , to determine the degree of transparency of the glass he emplotrsa and direct his choice in the pr ; ovision of that important article in his trade ?
In making these experiments , a great deal of thetroubl-e-may well be spared , for thereis no 1lse whatever in bfringing thetwo .
i-am-ps A arod B to bu ; rn with the same degree of larilliancy ; all that is necessary being to bring the shadows to be of the same density , with the glass , and without it rloting the distance of the lam-p 13 t-n each case ( the lamp A remai-ning immovable in its place)tX fortlle relative qu-antity of light lost will ever be accurately shown by the ratio of the squares of those di-sta-nces whatever b=e the relative brilliancy with which the two lamps burn .
The experiment is more strikilzg , and the consequences drawn from it rather more obvious when the lamps are madeS to burn with equal flames S otherwise that equality tSof nQ teal aderalltage\#171 ; CRf the Lvss of 8 Light in ils Rection from the Surface fa plane Glass Mirror .
In these experiments the method of proceeding was much the sane as i3:1 those JUst mentioned .
The lamps A and B burnlng with clear3 brights and steady flames , were placed be fore the field of the photolneter , and one of them ras moved backs^7ards and brwards till the illuminations of the shadows in the field of the instrument were found to be precisely equal .
'rlle distance of the lamp B lelng then noted , this lamp was renzoved and a mirror belng put in its placen but nearer the sSLeld of the photometern the larup was so placed that its rays , striking the centre of the mirror were reflected against the field of the photometer ) where , by bringing the laml ) nearer to , or removing it farther from themirror , the illumitlation of the field by those reflected rays was now brought to be in equilibrium with the illunlination of the standard lamp , and then the distance of the lamp from the centre of the mirror , and the distance from thence to the centre of the field , were carefully measured andnoted .
These two distances added together ?
wYas the real distance through which the rays passed in order to arrI-ve at the fielcI of the photometer .
Now as there is always a loss of light in refl-ectiona it is evident that the reflected rays must cotne to the field of the photonleter weaketled , and that in order to illtlminate this field by these reflected rays as strongly as it was illuminated by the direct rays of the same lamp the lamp must be brought nearer to the field .
It is likewise evident from what has already been saidn that the ratio of the squares of those distances of the lamp when its rays pass on directly and when they arrive after having been-reflected , are found to illuminate equally the field of the photometer , will be an accurate meastlre of the loss of the light in reflection .
The following table will show the results of five experio ments with a small , but most excellent glass mirrora made by RAMSDEN This mirror , which makes part of arz optical instrument I caused to be constructed in London about twelve years ago , is 7 inches longS and t ; 2 inches wide , and I suppose is as perfect as ever glass mirror was of that size .
To facilitate the comparison of the results of the experiments , the lamp B , at the beginning of each experiment ; ( when the intensity of its direct rays was compared with the intensity of the standard lamp ) , sYas placed at the distance of\zoo inches , the standard lamp being occasionally moved in order to produce an equality of the shadows ... , The anDistance of they .
Real distance of EXpeligle of centre of the mt Dtstance of the the lamp , sr Light lost in the ments .
detlce .
tree of the fieid ^ tree of the mirr &lt; r length of ghe rereflection .
_s inches .
inc.hes inches .
parts .
1 605 4 ' 4,0,8 230n8 3478 2 85 -41 , 81 , ,344393 45 41 , S 8 l ?
5,33458 4 60 ' 39SS 79)S,3680 S 7 ' { 4'75 8 ' , S ?
SS2O TlRe mean Of theSe fiVe eXPeriine11tS giVeS for the 10SS Of light\#162 ; 3494 3 and from hence it appears that more than 3 part of the light which falls upon the best glass luirror that can be constructed is lost ill-reflection .
The loss with mirrors of indifferent quality is still more con siderable .
With a very bad common lookingglass the loss , in one experimentS appeared to be,4816 parts and with another looking-glass it was,4tS48 parts in one experimentS and 44go in another .
I should certainly have made an experiment to determine the loss of light in its reflection from the surface of a plane metallic mlrrorn but I had no such mirror at handf The difference of the angles of incidence at the surface of the lmirror , within the limits mentioned , namelyn ffom 45 ' to 85 ' , did not appear to affect , in any sensible degree , the results of the experiments .
I also found upon trial , that the of | fact produced by thedifference of the angles at which light impinges against a sheet of transparent glass through which it passes is : within the limits of 4o ' or So ' from the perpendicu-lar , but very triflings Qf the relative Quantitzes of ( )il consamedn and of Light emitteda by an ARGAND'S Lamp and by a I &lt; amp on the sommon Constrv-ction , with a Riband !
Wickf The brilliancy of the ARGAND9S lamp is not only unrivalled , but the invention is in the highest degree ingenious , and the Instrument useful for m any purposesS but still , to judge of its real merits as an illuminator , it was necessary to linow whether it gives more light than another lamp in proportionto the oil consumed .
This pOillt I determined in the following marlner .
Having placed an ARGAND'S Iamp , well trimmeda and lourning with its greatest brilliancy before my photometer and over against it a very excelleIlt common lamp with a riband wick , about an inch wide , and which burnt with a clear , bright flame , without the Ieast appearance of smoke , I found the intensities of the light emitted by the two lamps to be to eaclS other as 179456 to 9063 the densities c)f the shadows being equal when the ARGAND'S being placea at the dista-nce of S4 inches , the common lamp was placed at the distance of 9rn2 inchesS from the field of the photometer .
Both lamps having been very exactly weighed when they were lighteds they were now ( without being removed from their places before the photometer ) caused to burn with the same brilliancy just So minutes ; when they were extinguished and weighed againn and were found to have consumed of oil , the ARGAND'S lamp 821593Z and the common lamp 8tI6932 of a Bavarian pollnd .
Now as the quantity of light produced by the ARGAND'S 1amPS in this experiment , is to the quantity produced by the common Iamp as zy956 to 906gS or as 187 to loo ; while the quantity of oil consutned by the former is to that consumed by the latter only in the ratio of 253 tO 163 , or as s to ooo , it is evident that the quantity of light produced by the combustion of a given quantity of oil in an ARGAND's-lamp is greater than that produced by burning the same quantity in a common lamp , in the ratio of z87 to oSS orase woo to S.S The saving , therefore , of oil which arises from making use of an ARGAND'S larup instead of a common lamp in the production of light , is evident ; and it appears from this experiment that that saving cannot amount to less than per cent How far the advantage of this saving may under certain circumstances , be counterbalataced by inconveniences that may attend the making use of this improved lamp , I will not pretend to determinee Of the relative Quantities of Light ensitted by an ARGAND'S Lamp , and by a common tYax Candle .
I have made a considerable number of experiments to determine this point , and the general result of them is , that a common ARGAND'S lampj burning with its usual-brightnessf gives about as much light as nine good wax candles ; but the sizes and qualities of candles are so various , and the light pro ; duced by the same candle so fluctuating , that it is very difficult to ascertain with any kind of precision , what a carnrnon was candle is , or llow much light it ought to give .
I once found that my ARGAND'S lamp , when it was burning with its great-est brilliancy , gave twelve times -as much light as a gooct xvax candle ^ of an inch in diameter , but never moreQ Of tb-e Flzuctzzatians of the Ligh emitted by ( :andles .
15o determine to what the ordinary variations in the quantsty of light emitted by a common wax candle might amount , I took such a candle , and lghting it , placed it before the photometer , azd over agailast it an ARGAND'S lamp , wh-icla was btlrning with as ery steadyr flame T and nreasuring the intenM sity of the light emitted by the candle from time to time , during an hour the candle being occasionally snuffed when it apeared to stand in need of ity its light was found to v ; ary from woo to about 6O .
Tlle light of a wax candle of ala inferlor qclality was still more-unequal , but earen this was but trifling compared to the inequalities of the light of a tallow caladle .
An ordinary tallolv candle , of rather an inf-erior quality , having been just snuffied , and burlling with its greatest bril liancya its light was as loo , in elenren minutes it was but , gg &lt; ; after eight minutes more had elapseds its li\#171 ; t ras reduced to 2-3 X and in ten minutes more , or tsventy-nine minutes after it had been last snuffUdf its light was reduced to 16 .
Upon be Ing again sllu-ed it recovered its original brilliaxlcy , loo .
Of the relative Quant2tles of Bees Wax , Tallow , Olive Oil Ptate Oz7 , and Linseed Oit consunzed in the Prodactials ) of JLigZM .
In order to ascertain the relative quantities of bees wax and of olive oil c &lt; risulmed in the production of light , I proceeded in the follow7ing manner .
Having provideel all encl of a wax candle of the best qualityS 68 of an inck in diameter , and about four inches in length , and a lamp with five small wicks which I had found upon trial to gi+te the same quantity of ligh.t Mas the candle I weighed very exactly the candlef and the lamp filled wTitla oilS and then placing them at equal distances ( 40 inches ) before tlaefield of the photometer I lighted them both at the same time e and after having caused them to burn with precisely the same degree of brtghtu--ess just one complete hogrS I extinguished them both , and weighing them a second time , t found that 100 parts of wax , and 129 parts of oil had beua cdonsumed .
Hence it appearss that the coalsumption of bees wax is to the consumption of olive oil , in the production of the same g-ven quantity of light , as loo is to 129 .
Ilz this experiment 1lo circumstance utas xglected that could tend to render t}w result of it conclusive .
Care utas taliell toh Sllff the candle very often with a pair of sharp scissors , in order tomake lt bllrn constantly witha the same de$ree of brilliancy * and the light of the larllp was , during the whole time , kept in the naost exact equilibrium with the lighe of the candle ; -which was easily dorle by occasionally drawing out , a little .
more or less , one or more of its five equal wicks .
These wicksg uThich were placed in a right line perpendicular to a line drawn from the middle svick to the lmiddle of the field of the phstometer , were about ItO of an itch in dianaeter each , and + of an inch from each other , and when they wtere lighted , their flames united into one broad , thixl , and very clear , white flame , withrout the least appearance of slnoke .
In order to a-scertain the relative consumption of o]irre oil and rape ctil , in the production of light , tsro lamps , like that just described , were made use of v and the experiment being ; made with all possible care , the consumption of olive oil appeared to be to that of rape oil , in the production of the same quatltity of light as X 29 is to X 25 .
The experiment being afterwards repeated with olive oil and very pure linseed oil , the consumption of olive oil appeared to be to that of the litlseed oil as 129 to 120 .
The experiment being twice made with olive oil , and with a tallow candle ; once whSen the candle , by being often snuSed wras made to burn constantly with the greatest possible brilliancyS and once when it was suSered to burn the whole time wiith a very dim light , owing to the want of snuffing , the re sults of these experiments were very reluarkable .
When the candle burnt with a clear , bright flame , the consutnption of the olive oil was to the consumption of the tallow as 129 is to tol ; but when the candle burnt Witi1 adim lights the coIlsumption of the olive oil was to the consumption of the tallow as 129 is to 229 .
So that it appeared from this last experiment , that the tallow , instead of being nearly as productive o\#163 ; light in its combustion as bees wax , as it appeared to be when the candle was kept coxlstantly well snuied , was now , when the candle was suered to burn with a ditn lightn by far less so than oil .
But this is rzot all ; what is still more extraordinary is , that the very same candle , burning with a long wick and a : dim light actually constlmed more tallow than when being pro-^ perly snuffied , it burnt with a clear , bright flame , and gave near three times as much light !
To be enabled tojudge of the relative quantities of lightactually prod ; uced by the cancilein thetwo experiments , it will sufEce to ; know , that iru order to counterbalance this light at the field of thephotorrleter , it required , in the former experiment !
the consumptiora of 141 partss but in the latter only the consuluption of 64 parts of olive oil .
But in the former experi : meant 11o partsX and in the latter &lt; 14 parts of tallow were actually found to be conslltned .
These parts were 8lgaths of a Bavarian pound .
From the results of all the foregoingexperiments it appears , that the relative expense of the underrnentioned inflammable $ubstances3 in the production of light , isas follow-s .
Equal parts ln welght .
Bees wax .
A good wax candle , kept vell snuffied , and burning with a clear , bright flame , zoo Tallow .
A good tal]ow candle , kept well snuffed , and burning with a brig ; ht flame , lo The same tallow candleg burnilzg very dim for want of snuffing , 229 Olive oil .
Burnt in an ARGAND'S lampy 1 lo the s-arne burnt in a common lanlp , with a clear , bright flame , without smoke , 129 Rape oil .
Burnt in the same manner , t2S Linseed oil .
Likewise burllt iI } the same manner , 120 I should have been very glad to have made the eperiment with whale oil , but there ^vas notle to be had in thecountry I inhabit .
With the foregoing table , and theprices current of the thereinmentioned articles , the relative prices of light produced by those diSerent materials may very readily be computed .
The light of a mrax candle , for instance , costs just nine times more at Munich , than the same quantity of light produced by !
3urning rape oil in atl ARGAND'S lamp .
Of the Transparency of Flames To ascertain the transparency of flame , or the measure of the vesistance it opposes to the passabe of foreign or extrazeous light through it , I placed before the photometer , over against the standard lamp , two burlling slvax candles , ssell trimlned , and pUtting them near together , sometimes by the sides of each other , and sc)metimes in a straight line behind each others I found that when thtir distances from the field of the photosneter srere the same , the intensity of the illumination was to all appearance the same , whether the light of the one was suade to pass through the flame of the other , or not .
And the same held good with very littfle variatiollg w}wen t}areeZ and even whenXfour candles vere made use of-in the experi meant , instead vf two .
I even caused a lamp to be constructed WitTl nine reoula\#163 ; 1 wicks , placed in an horizolltal line , and just so far asunder as to prevent their flames uniting , and no farther .
And ] : found , upon repeating the experiment with this lanapg that the restllt was much the same as with the candles ; twhe intensity of the illumination at the field of the photometer being v-ery nearlLy the same , Whether these nine lights srere placed so as to covert and pass through each other , or not .
But I afterwards found means to denonstrate the xtery great transparency of flarne by a stil1 luc)re simple experiment .
Suspecting that the only reason -why bodies are not visible through a sheet of vivid flatne is , that the light of the flame affects the eye in such a manner as to render : it insensible to the weaker light emitted by , or reflected from the objects placed behind it ?
I conceived that a very strong light would not only be visible through a weak flarne , but also ( as all transparent lSodies -are invisible ) that it might perhaps cause the flame totally to disappear ; to determine that fact , I took a lighted candle at mid-day , the surl shitling moderately bright , and holding it up betxveen my eye and the surl , I found the flame of the candle to disappear entirely .
It was not everl necessary , in order to cause the flame to become invisible , to t ring it to be directly betsseen the eye and the body of the sun , it was sufficient for that:purpose tc ) bring it into the neighbourhood of the-Sun , wlaere the light was very strong : -even in a situation in N71zich the light was not so strong as to dazzle the eye so much as to prevent its seeing very distlnctly the bdody of the candles and the wick , not the least appearance of flame sras discernible , though the candle actually burnt the whole time very .
w vlgorously Muntch .
I am &amp;c. I St March } I 793 0 IX .
An Account of a Mbethod of measuring the comparative -Intensities of the Light emitted by luminous Bodfies .
By Lieute nant-General Sir Benjamin Thompson , Count of Rumford5 F. R. S. In two Letters to Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. P. R. S. Read February 6 , 1:794 .
LETTER Ie DEAR STRS ABOUT two years ago , being employed in making a number of experiments to determine , if possible , the most oecollomical method of lighting up a very large workhouse , or public manufactory , which has been erected in the suburbs of this city under my directions , where the poor , old and young , and all industrious people who are ill want of work , are employed in a great rrariety of different manufactures , a method occurred to me for measuring the relati^7e quazltities of light etnitted by lamps of different constructions , candles , &amp;c. which ls very simple7 and which I have reason to think perfectly accarate I sent you a rerbal account of this little invention about a year and a half ago , by Dr BSADER , who wrote to me that you seemed to be pleased with it ; but as I think it vertr probable , that he might not have been ablFe to give 370U a complete ; dea of the matter from memory , I have determined to senel y)^w short account of it ira writing , which , if you shouicl thir-XX ; \#162 ; &lt; rr worthy of that honour , you will be pleased to lay be-fove t3tC ^Royal Society .
The method is shortly this : K Z Let the two burning candles , lamps , or other lights to be comparedn A and Bn be placed at equal heights upon two light tables ) or moveable stands , in a darkened room S let a sheet of clean white paper be equally spread out , and fasterzed upon the wainscotor side of the room , at the same height from the floor with the lights , -ansl let the li$hts be placed over against this sheet of paper , at the distance of 6 or 8 feet from it7 and 6i or 8 feet from each other , in such a manner , that a lin-e drawlaf kom the centre of the paper , perpendicular to its surface , shallt bisect the-angle formed by lines drawn from the lighsts to that centre ; in which case , considering the sheet of paper as a plarle speculum , the one light will be precisely in the line of reflecti-on of the otheri This may be easily performed , by actually placing a piece of a looking-glass , 6 or 8 inches square , flat upon the paper , irt the midAdle of it , and observing by means of lt the real lines o\#163 ; vreflection of the lights from that plane removing it afterwards as soon as the li-ghtsare properly arranged .
When this is done , a small cylinder of srood , about 4 of art inch in diam-eter , and 6 inches long , mtust be held in a vertical positiorz about 2 or S inches before the centre of the sheet ofv papern and in such a manner , that the two $hadourls of the cylinder corresponding to the tmro lights may be distinctly seen ; pon the paper .
If these shadows should befound to be of unequal densitieso which will almost always bethe case , therz that light whose corresponding shadow is the densest , must -be removed farthert oR , or the other must be brought nearer to the papera till the densities of the shadows appear to be exactly equal ; or in otherwords -till the densities of the xays from the two lights are t equal v the surface of the paper ; when9 the distances of the .
lights ufronl the centre of the paper being measured , the squares of those distances will be 3 ; o each other as the real intensitiqes of the lights in question at their sources .
: If , for example the .
weaker light being placed at the dis tance of + feet from the centre of the papern it shoulcI be found necessary , in order that the shadows may be of the same densityf to remove the stronger light to the distance of 8+ feet from that centre , in that casen the real intensity of the stronger light will be to thats of the : weaker as St to 45 ; or as 64to 6 ; or 4 to 1S and -so for any other distances .
It is well known-that any quality proseeding from a centre in straight lines in all directions , like the light emitted by a luminous body , its inten-slty at any given distance from that centre will be as the square of that distance inversely ?
and hence it is clear that the intensities of the lights ln question at their sources , must be to each other as the squarxs of their distances from that giv-en point where their rays unitzng are Sfound toS he of equal detzsity .
For putting x_ the intensity of l3 ; if P represents the point where the rays from A and from B meeting are found to be of equal density or strengths and if the distance of A from P be = m , and the distance of 13from the same poi-nt P = ; then , as the ifntensity of the light of A at P is-X5 ; g and the intensity of the light of B at the same place-Yn2 , and as it is in ' = Yz by the supposition , it will be ... z. tz* v responding to one of the li\#171 ; ts in question being deeper or fiinter , according as it is more or less : enlightened by the othery when the shadows are equal , the interlsides of the ilIuminating xays must be equal likewise. .
8 , In removing the lightsS ill order to bring the shadows to be of the same density , care must be taken to recede firolnJ or advance towards the centre of the pasper in a straight line , so that the one light may always be found exactly in the-line of reflectionof theother ; otherwise the rays from the-differen\#163 ; lights falling upon the paper , and consequently upon the shadows , at different angles , will render the experiment fallacious When the intensity of one strong light is copared with the intensities of several smaller lights taken together , the smaller lights should be placed in a lille perpendicular to a lineddrawn .
6 to the centre of the papera and as near to each other as possible , and it is likewise-necessary to place them at a:greater distance from the paper than when only single lights are comparee. .
In all cases itis absolu tely necessarJr to take the greatest care that the lights compared be properly trimmed and that they burn clearn and equally , otherwise the results of the ex periments will be extreluely irregular and inconclusive .
It is astonishing what a difference there is itl the quantities of light elmitted by the same candle , when it burnswith its greatest brilliancy , and.when it has grown dim for want of snuffing .
But as this diminlltion of light is progressives and as the eye insensibly conforms to the quantity of light actually present it is not always taken notlce of by the spectators ; _it is nevertheiess very considerable in fact , as will be apparent to anJ , r one nvllo will talie the trouble to make the experiment f and so great is the fluctuation in the quantity of light ernotted by burning bodies , lamps , or candles in all cases , even under the rubst fivourable circumstances , that this is the source of tho. .
^greatest difficulties I have lnet with in determinilzg the relative intensities of lig^hts by the method here proposed .
To ascertain by this method tlwe comparative densities , or intensities of the li-ght of tt1e moonf and of that of : a carldlen the moonvs direct rays must be received upon a planes whit@ surfacea at an angle of incidence of about 60 ' , and the candy placed in the line of the reflection of the moon 's rays from this surfice S when the shadows of the ctrlinder corresponding to the moons light and to that of the candle being brought to le of equa density , by removing the candletfarther oK , or .
e bringing it nearer to the centre of the white planen as the occasion may require the intensity of the lmoons light will beequal to that of the candle at the gzven dzstance xf the candfle Jrom the plane .
To ascertain the intensity of the light of the heavens by day or by nightS this light must-be let into a darkened room through a long tubea blackened on the insiden when its inten sity may be compared with that of a candle or lamp by the nethod above described. .
To detertnine tl:e intensity of the direct rays of the sun compared to the light emitted by any of our artificial illumi nators it may perhaps be necessaries considerlrlg the almost inconceivable intensity of the sunvs light , to make use of seae fbrther contrivances and precautions but Iam convincedf however , that it may be done , and that even with a very considerable degree of precision .
And when the relative inten sity of the sun 's light at the surface of the earth compared with the intensity of the light of a given lamp , placed at a given distance , and burrling with a flame of givez dimensions , shalI be known X it will then be easy , from the known size and distance of the sun , to compute the relatirre density of his light at his surface , comparedl to the density of the light of the flame of the lamp -at the surface of that flame .
The intensity of the l-ight emitted ill the combustion of iron or of phosphorus in dephIogisticated air , as also that of all other burning , or red-hot -bodies , may becotnpared and determined by this method with these greatest facility and. .
exactness .
In my next Ietter I shall endeavour to give you an account of the result of my inquiries with respect to the best and most oecorlomical method of producing light by candles , lamps7 &amp;c. for common use ; together with a comparative view of the ex pence of lights of various kinds , the quantity of light produced remaining the same ; with such further remarks and observa tions as may occur Munich , I am , &amp; c 20th December , 179Z .
LETTER II .
DEAR SIR , Since my letter of the 20th December last I have made ma3 : lie improvements in the apparatus contrived for meast ; ring the : intensity of light , and I have now brought the principal instrument to such a degree of perfection , that , if I might without being suspected of affectation , I should dignify it with a namea and call it a phoZometer .
I have likewise made a considerable number of new experiments ; but before I proceed to gisre an account of thelmf it will be necessary to describe iery particularly the alterations I have foulad it expedient to make in the ilastruments .
Anda in the first place the shadowsa instead of being thrown upon a paper spread out upon the wainscot or side of the roon are now projected upon the inside of the back part of a wooden boxn 74 inches xR7iden log inches -1 &lt; 3ng and 34 inches deepf in the clear , open ill front to receive the light , and painted black on the itlside in every part except the back upon which the wlaite paper is fastenedL which receives the shadows .
To the under part of ti &lt; e box is fitted a ball and socket , by which it is attached to a stand which supports it } and the top or lid of it is fitted with hinges in order that the box may be laid quite open as often as it is necessary to alter any part of the machinery it contains .
The front of the box is likewise firnis}zed with a:falling lid or door moveable upon hinges , by uZlaich the box is closed itl iont when it is not in actual 1lse .
Finding it very inconvenient to compare two sAhadows pro jected by the sazue cylinder , as these were either necessarily too far from each other to be comparedwithcertaintyor when they were nearer they were in part hid frona the eye by the cylindern to relnedy this inconvenience3 I llOW make use of two cylinders ; which being fixed perpendicularly in the bottom of the box just d-escribed in a llrle parallel to tiLle back part of it , distant from this back 2I3O inchesS and frozn each other S incheSf measuring from the centres of the cylillders S when the two lights made use of in the experiment are properly placed these two cylitnders project four shadows upon the white paper upon the inside of the back part of the box , wYllicll I shall henceforth call the jield of the instrument , two of which shadows are in contact precisely in the middle of that field , and it is these two alone that are to be attended to .
To pre4 Wi .
vent the attention being distracted by tl:ze presence of u necessary objects , the two outside shadows are made to disappear which is done by rendering the field of the instrument so narrow , that they -fall withotlt it upon a blackened surface upon which they are not visible .
If the cylinders be each I40 of an inch in diameterS arlXl e 20 inches in height , as in the instrument I have lately constructedn it will be quite sufficientS If the field be 2-I70 inches wide ; and as an unnecessary height of the field is not only useless , but disadvantageous , as a large surface of white paper not covered by the shadows produces too strong a glare of light , the field ought not to be more than I30 of an inch Iligller than the tops of the cylinders .
In ord ; er to be able to place the lights -Xvith facility and pre cision3 a fine bla( &gt; k line is drawn through the middle of the field from the top to th@ bottom of iit , and another ( horizontal ) ; line at right angles to it , at the height of the top of the cylin ders .
When the tops of the shadows touch this last-mentioned lirle , the lights are at a proper height and-wZhen fur there , the two shadows are in contact with each other in themiddle ofthelSeld , the lights are then in their proper directions .
lIn my new-improved instruzuent ( for I have already caused -four to be constoleted)the white paper which forms the field is not fastened immediately 1lpon the inside of the back of the box , but it is pasted upon a small pane of very fine grourldglassX and this glassS thus covered is let down into a groove made to receive it in the back of the bos .
This covered glass is inches long , and as wide a$ the box izs deep , viz. S4 inchesX but the field of the instrument is reduced to its proper size by a screen of black pasteboard interposed before the anterior surface of this covered glass , and resting immediately upon it .
A hole in this pasteboarcl , in the form of an oblollg square , 1 I2O inches wide , and two inches llighn determines the dimensions , and forms the boundarie3 of the fieldl .
This screen should be large enough to cover the whole inside of the back of the box , and it may be fixeCl in its place by means of grooves in the sides of the box , into which it may be made to enter .
The position of the opening above mentioned is deterlmined by the height of the cylinders , the top of it being I3- &lt; , of an inch higher than the tops of the cylinders L and as the height of it is only two inches , while the height of the cylillders is 2I2o inches it is evident that the shadows of the lower parts of the cylinders do not enter the field .
No incorlvenience arises from that circumstance c on the contraryg several advantages are derived from that ar-rangenent .
Instead of the screen just describedn I sometimes make use of another , which differs from it only in this , that the hole in it } which determines the form and dimensions of the field , in stead of being quadrangularn is round , and 1 I60inches in dia meter .
And when this screen is made use of , the shadows are increased in width ( by means which will lsereafter be de scribed ) , oill such a manner as corupletely to fill the field : ap pearing urlder the form of two hexnisphers , or rather half disks , touching each other in a vertical lineO the object I had in viewain reducing the field and the shadows to a circular fortn was this )I imagirled that by diminishing the number of oWects capable of acting upon the mind , and particularIy by removing all straight lines and angles , andL all unnecessary varieties of lights and shades , the attention might be concentrated and fixed in such a manner as to render the sense of sight peculiarly acute in distinguishing any diSerence in the simple objects presented to the eye .
But holvever plausibIt this reasoning may appear , I own the experiment did not an-swer my expectation .
It is true the apparent densities of two equal hemispheres of shade , in contact with each other , may lJe compared with great facilityn and when no discernible difference is to be perceived betw@en themS it is more than probable that they are in fact very nearly equal e but still I have found by experielace , that two equal parallelogramsof shade in contact with each other may be compared with the same easeand , I have reason to thinkn with equal certainty , and that even when these unitea s5jladovvs are bounded on three sides by a perfectly +white surface itluminated by the direct rays of twc : &gt; strong lights r that is to sayn vXthen the screen with the quadrangular opening or field is rrlade use of .
In describing the cylitaders by which the shadows are pro jected , I said they were fixed in the bottom of the box , b11t as the diameters of the shadows of the cylinciers vary ln some Ws , stmall ctegreef in proport-ion as the : Tights are broader or narronYern and as they are brought nLearer to or removed fartEler from the photometerg ill order to be alble in all cases to brilag t:llese shadosns to be of the same diameter , which I have founds by experienceto-be advantageo:usn in order to judge with greater facilityandcertailaty when the sZ:aadows are of the same densi &lt; y &gt; I have rendered the cylinders moveable about their axes , and have acleled ta each a vertical wi-rlg 2o of arl inch widen l ; Itof an inch thicl &lt; , and of equal height with the cylinder itself , and firmly fised to it from the top to the bottom .
This wing commonly lies in the mieldle of the shadow-of the-cylinderS and as long as it remains in that situation it has no effect whatever S but when it is necessary that the diameter of one of the shadows be increased , the corresponding cylinder is moved about its axisf till the wing just described emerging out of the shadow , and intercepting a portion of light , brings the shado-Xv projected tlpon the field of the instrument to be of the width or diameter required .
In this operation it is always necessary to turn the cylinder--outwardsn or in such a mantler thal : t3:e augmentation of the width of the shadow may take place on that side of it which is opposite to the shadow corresponcling to the other light .
The nEceS3ity for that precaution will appear evident tQ any one who has a just idea of the instrument in question , and of the na-anner of luaking use of it .
It is Xby means of these wings attached to the cylinders that the widths of the shaslos are auS.tmented , so as to fill the whole field of the photometern when the screen with the circular opening-is made use of As the lower ends of the cylinders which pass through the holes made to receive them in the bottom of the box are about 210 of an inch less in diameter than their upper parts which cast the shadows , and as they not only go quite through the bottorn of the box ( which is an inch thick3 but project near an inch below its nferior surfacef andn lastly as these cylinders aref not firmly fixed in these holes , it is easy , by taking hold of the enals of them which project below the bottom of ; he box to turn about the cylinders upon their axesn evexl withoaats opening the box .
I said above ) that the height of the vertical wing attached to each of the cylinders was equal to the height of the cylinder itself:-this must be understood to mean , not the total length of the cylinder , comprehending that part of it which passes into , and through the lsottom of the box , but merely its height above the bottom of the box , or part projecting , namely 2-I20+inches As it is absoltltely necessary that the cylinders should constantly remain precisely perpendicular to the bottotn of the tox , or parallel to each other , it will be best to construct them of brass , and instead of fixing them immediately to the bottom of the box ( which being of wood may warp ) , to fix them to a strong , thick piece of srell hamrnered plate brass , which plate of brass nray be afterwards fastened to the bottom of the box by tneaslas of one strorlg screw .
In this manner two of my best instruments are constructed .
AndS in order to senure the cylinders still more firmly in tneir vertical positions , they are furnished with broad flat rings9 or projections , where they rest upon the brass plate 9 which rings are IIO of an inch thick , and equal tn diameter to the projection of the wing of the cylinder , to the bottom of which they afford a firm support .
These cylinders are likewise forcibly pushed , or rather pulled against the brass plate upon which they rest , by means of compressed spiral springsS placed betweerz the under side of that plate and the lower ends of the cylinders .
Of whatever material the cylinders be constructed , ancI whatever be their forms or dimensionsS it is absolutely neces$ary that they , as well as every other part of the photometern except the fieldS should be well painted of a deep black , dead colour .
That will prevent the inconveniences which would otherwisec arise from reflected light , and from the presence of too great a number of visible objects .
In -order to move the lights to and from the photometer with greater ease and precision , I have provided two long and narrow .
, but very strong and steady tables , in the middle of each of which there is a straight groove , in .
which. .
a sliding carriage , upon which the light is placed , is drawn along by mearls of a cord which is fastened to it before and behind , and which passing over pulley .s at each end of the table , goes-round a cylinder , which cylinder is furnished with a winchS and is so placed near the end of the table adjoining the photometer5 .
that the observer can turn it about , without taking his eye .
f:rom the fieldof the instru .
meant .
M[any advantages .
arJe derived from-this arrangeme.at , asfirst , the observer can move the lights as hefinds necessary w.ithout the .
help of an .
assistant , and even without removing liis eye from.the..shadows s sec.ondly , each light is a]ways pre-cisely in the line of dire.ction in which.ll it ought to be in order that the shaclows may be-inicontact in the middle..of theverti cal plane of the. .
photometer X and thirdly , the sliding motion of the .
lightsbeing perfectly soft and gentle , that motion produces little .
or : no effiect upon the 9 lights themselves , either to increase .
or diminish their brilliancy .
These tables , which are o inches wide and g5 inches high , and the..one of them 12 -feet , and the .
othe.r 20 feet lo.ng , are placed at an angle .
o ; f 60 ' from each other , and in such a situat-ion with respect to the photometer that lines.-drawn through their middles in the direction of their lengths , mteet in a poirlt vactly under the middle of thef vertical plane or field of the photometer , and from that point the distances of the lights are measured the sides of the tables bein ; divided into English inchesn and a Vernier ) showing tenths of inches ) being fixed to each of the sliding carriages upon which the lights are placed .
These carriages are so contrived that they can be raised or losrered at pleasure which is absolutely necessary in order thats the lights may be always of a proper heightf namely that they may be in a laorizontal line with the tops of the cylinders of the phototneter .
The method of ascertaining when the lights are at the pro ?
er height has already been described .
In order that the two long and narrow tables or platforms just describedf UpOtl which the lights move may remain immovea-ble in their proper positions they are both firmly fised to the stand which supports the photometer ; and in order that the motion of the carriages which carry the lights may lbe as soft and gentle as possibIea they are made to slide upc)n parallel larass wires g inches asunder about IIO of an inch in diameter and welI apolishedS which are stretched out upon the tables fforn one end to the other .
The pane of glass covered with white paperf which being fixed iil a groove in the back of the box , constitutes the vertical plane upon w}zicll the shadows are proJected is Gg inches long and 34 inches wide as has already beea observed ; which is much larger than the ctitnensions asslgne-d above for the field d tlamelyS X I7o inches wideg and 2 inches tiigh .
I had ; two objects in view in this arrangement ; first7 to render it easier to fix this plane in its proper position e and secondlyf to -be thzle to augment occasionally the dimensions of the fieldn by removing entirely the black pasteboard screen from before th ; is plane , or making use of arlother with a larger aperture &gt; which is sometimies advantageous.# Having MOW , :S 1 imaglne , suffltietltly deseribed ail the es sential pa*ts of these itlstrtlments it retuains for tne to give so-me account of the precautions which , from experience , I have found it neceswry to talie ila making use of them .
And first , with respect to the distance at which liglwts whose illtensities are to be comparel should be placed from the field 3f the photo-meter , I have found tElat wthen the sveakest of the .
lights itl question is about as strong as a common wax-candles that light may most advantageously be placed from So to 36 inches from the Gentre of the field ; and when it is ATeaker -or strongerX proportionally nearer or farther off .
When the lights are too ear , the shadows will not be well defitzed ; and when they are tcyo far oS , they will be too weak .
It will greatly facilitate the calculations necessary in drawing conclusions from experiments of this kitld , if solve steady 3ighe of a ieroper degree of strength for that purpose be assumed as a standard , by which all others may be comparecI .
I have cllosen for that purpose an ARGAND'S lamp ) made in LorldonJ and very well finished ; and though the quantity of light emitted by thisX or any other kil:ad of lamp , is very-varixs + Since writing the above , I haare made a little alteration in the form of the box which contalns my photometer .
The ont of it , instead of being open , is now closed and the light is admitted through two horizontal tubes , which are placed so as to form an angle of 60 ' ; their axes meeting at the centre OIC the Eeld nf the instrument .
The Zeld of the photometer ts viewed through arl operling made for that purpose in the middle of the frollt of the box , between the two tubes abovementioned .
The annexed figures , tT'ab .
X. XI .
XII .
XITI .
will serve to gifire a clearer dea of the instruments as t now is , in its most im-proved statee MDiCCSC IV depellding in a great snea$ ur upon the length to which the wick is drawn out , yet I have found by repeated trials that this latnp , once properly adjusted , continues to emit Xight more equally for a considerable time than any other lamps and much more so than any candle whatelrer .
At the beginning of each experiment I adjust this standard light in the followilog tnanxler .
Having placed the lamp upon its carriage ) at the distance of loo inches from the centre of the field of the photometer , measuring from the centre of the circular flame of the lamp,.a cylindric wax-candle , of known weight and dimensions , and which is kept merely for that pllrpose , being liglXlted and trimmed , and made to burr with the greatest possible-degree of brilliallcy , is placed over against it , at a certain given distance ( gg inches ) , and then the wick of the lamp is drawn ouKt , or shortened , as it is found necessary , till the slaadows corresponding to the lamp and to the candle ) are precisely of theosame density , this done , the proof candle is extinguished ) .
and laid by for further use , and the projected experiment isilulaledi.ate]y commenced .
Here the proof canclle is , properly speaking , the staaldarclj but the lamp is to be preferred to it for the experiments , oll ac : count of the superior constallcy or equality of its light .
- .
The only danger of error ill this matter arises from that difficulty of procuring proof candles , which shall always give precisely the same quarltity of lightX or of making the same candle burn with exactly the same brilliancy at different times ; I flattered myself at otl-e time that even this cause of error and uncertainty , however insurmountable the difficulty appearss might be in a great measure removed .
I c.onceived that if the lsg ; ht from the st ?
ndard lamp and that of the proof candlea brought to be of the same intensity at the surface of the vertical plane , jwere really stronger at one time than at another , the equal shadows of the cylinders would be proportionally deeper , and that by comparingX at different times , the density of those sladows with a painted scale of shades , regularly graduated , anydiffierence in the intensity of the stanclard light might be discovered and compensated ; but upon nzaking the experiment I foud what indeed a little patient reflec-tion. .
would have enabled me to foresee , that the apparent density of the two equal shadows corresponding to the lights compared with a painted scale of shadess exposed z7z the same light , is ever the sae , however the itltensitg of the rays at the surEace upon which those shadows are projected may rary There is hosrever allotller method by hich I thirlk it probable that the standard lamp may be adjusted with the requisite degree of precisionv It ap } ?
ears , from a considerable number of experimellts7 of which I shall hereafter give a more particular accout , that the qualltity of light emitted by a larn-p which burns in the same manner , with a clear flame and uJit7Jout smoke is in all cases as the qualltity of oil consumed .
If ; therefore the standard larnp be so adjustel as always to consurne a certaitl given quantity of oil in a given time , there is much reason to suppose that it may then be depended on as a just standard oI ligit .
In order to abridge the calculations necessary in these inquiries , it will always be advantageous to place the -standard -lamp at t1ln distance of r OQ inches of the photolneter and to a$surne the intensity of its light at its source equal to unity ; in this case ( callitg ; this standard light An the intensity of the light at its source =x= - ; ; and the distance of the lamp from

