" An Account of some Experiments on the Blood in connexion with the Theory of Respiration .
" By John Davy , M.D. , F.R.S. , Assistant Inspector of Army Hospitals .
The author has investigated , experimentally , several of the important questions connected with the theory of respiration and of animal heat ; and arrives at the following results .
He finds that the blood is capable of absorbing oxygen both from atmospheric air , and from oxygen gas , independently of putrefaction .
After blood has been agitated in common air , a trace of carbonic acid , not exceeding one per cent. , is found in the residual air ; but when pure oxygen is employed , no carbonic acid can be detected in it by the most carefully conducted trials .
When pure carbonic acid is brought into contact with blood , or serum , over mercury , and moderately agitated , the absorption of gas exceeds the volume of the fluid .
Both arterial and venous blood are rendered very dark , and serum more liquid by the absorption of this gas to saturation .
Serum , in its healthy state , is incapable of absorbing oxygen , or of immediate ?
lie furnishing carbon to form carbonic acid : and after it has ab ?
sorbed carbonic acid , only one-tenth of the absorbed gas is expelled by successive agitation with atmospheric air , or with hydrogen .
The author is inclined to think that the alkali in the blood , in its healthiest condition , is in the state of a sesquicarbonate .
In the majority of trials manifest indications of the disengagement of air from blood in vacuo were obtained : but as it occasionally happened that no air could be thus extricated , the author is induced to believe that the quantity of air contained in the blood is variable : and he has found this air to consist solely of carbonic acid gas .
It would also appear , from the experiments detailed in this paper , that a portion of oxygen exists in the blood , not capable of being extracted by the air-pump , yet capable of entering into combination with ni ?
trous gas ; and existing in largest proportion in arterial blood .
The absorption of oxygen by blood is attended with an increase of temperature .
The experiments of the author tend to show that the lungs are absorbing and secreting , and perhaps also inhaling organs , and that their peculiar function is to introduce oxygen into the blood and separate carbonic acid from the blood : and they favour the idea that animal heat is owing , first , to the fixation or condensation of oxygen in the blood in the lungs during its conversion from venous to art ?
rial ; and secondly , to the combinations into which it enters in the circulation in connexion with the different secretions and changes essential to animal life .

