" On the relation of the Angular Aperture of the Object-Glasses of Compound Microscopes to their penetrating power and to Oblique Light .
" By J. W. GRIFFITH , M.D. , F.L.S. Communicated by ARTHUR HENFREY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received April 29 , 1854 .
The explanation given by Dr. Goring and others of the advantage of increased angular aperture in microscopic objective-glasses appears to the author to be correct , as applied to the case of opake objects , and accordingly his remarks in the present communication have reference to transparent objects only .
It is known that delicate markings on a transparent object , such as the valve of a Gyrosigma , may be rendered more distinctly visible by using an object-glass of large aperture , by bringing the mirror to one side , and by placing a central stop in the object-glass or the condenser or in both ; the increased distinctness produced in these several ways being due to the illumination of the object by oblique light .
Experiment also shows that the degree of obliquity of the light requisite varies with the delicacy or fineness of the markings , being greater as these are more delicate ; so that the finest markings require the most oblique light which can possibly be obtained to render them evident , and the angular aperture of the object-glass must necessarily be proportionately large , otherwise none of these oblique rays could enter it .
If the parts of an object which refract the light are large in proportion to the power of the object-glass and of irregular form , they will refract a certain number of rays , so that these cannot enter the object-glass ; hence certain parts will become dark , and will map out , as it were , in the image formed of the object , the structural peculiarities of the same .
But if the parts are minute , of a curved form and approximatively symmetrical , they will act upon the light transmitted through them in the manner of lenses , and their luminous or dark appearance will vary according to the relation of the foci of these to that of the object-glass .
Thus the parts of an object may appear dark and defined , from the refraction of the light out of the field of the microscope ; also , from the concentration or dispersion of portions of the light by these parts , all the rays being admitted by the object-glass , or entering the field .
Another condition affecting distinctness consists in the relation which the luminousness or darkness of an object bears to that of the field or back ground upon which it is apparently situated .
The refraction of the light out of the field of the microscope or beyond the angle of aperture of the object-glass is the ordinary cause of the outlines of objects becoming visible ; and in these cases , an increase of the angular aperture of the object-glass will impair their distinctness , because it will allow of the admission of those rays which would otherwise have been refracted from the field , and the margins will become more luminous and less contrasted with the luminous field .
The cause of the distinctness of an object by refraction when all or nearly all the rays enter the field of the microscope , may be investigated in a drop of oil immersed in water , or in a drop of milk , as illuminated by light reflected from an ordinary mirror .
The refractive power of the globules is so great and their form such , that each acts as a minute spherical lens ; and the parts within the margin will appear light or dark according to the relation of the focus of the little lens to that of the object-glass .
Under an object-glass of small aperture and moderate power the outline will appear black , because the marginal rays do not enter the object-glass .
If the object-glass be of sufficient aperture to admit these marginal rays , the black margin will disappear , and the little lens will only be distinguishable by the above focal relation .
Its appearance under oblique light ( thrown from all sides , as when the condenser and a central stop are used ) will vary ; but taking the case of extreme obliquity of the rays , the lens will only be visible by a luminous margin from reflexion , giving it a very beautiful annular appearance .
Hence it is more distinct by direct , or slightly oblique , than by very oblique light .
But in certain objects , the irregularities of structure are of such extreme minuteness , or the difference of the refractive power of the various portions of the structure is so slight , that the course of the rays is but little altered by refraction on passing through them , and , under ordinary illumination , all the rays will enter the object-glass ; neither are the rays accumulated into little cones or parcels , of sufficient intensity to map out the little light or dark spots in the field of the microscope , according to the relation of their foci with that of the object-glass .
Let us take the instance of an object with minute depressions on the surface , as the valve of a Gyrosigma .
These are so minute , that when the light reflected from the ordinary mirror is used , the rays passing through the depressed and the undepressed portions , are not sufficiently refracted to cause either set to be excluded from the object-glass , consequently both sets will enter it .
The slightly oblique and converging rays passing through a portion of the valve become separated into two sets , one passing through the thinner depressed portions , the other through the thicker and undepressed portions : still both sets enter the object-glass .
But on transmitting oblique light through the object , one set of the rays will be refracted so as not to enter the object-glass , whilst the other set will gain admission ; thus the two parts , which have differently refracted the rays , will become distinct .
If the markings were more delicate , or if the difference between the refractive power of the two portions of the valve were less , both sets would enter the object-glass .
But on rendering the light still more oblique , one set would be again excluded by being refracted out of the field .
Hence it is evident why the angular aperture of the object-glass must be larger as the markings are finer , or the difference between the refractive power of the two portions of tissue is less ; because the obliquity of the light requisite will be very great to cause the exclusion of one set of the rays , and the other set will be too oblique to enter the object-glass unless it be of correspondingly large aperture .
This is the explanation of the advantage of oblique light .
It has no peculiar power of rendering objects distinct , as has sometimes been believed , and the following experiment , supposed to show such peculiar power , is really to be explained on different grounds .
A piece of net , or some similar texture , is placed behind a hole made in a window-shutter , and when thus viewed , the fibres are not well seen ; but when the texture is moved on one side , they become very distinctly visible , and this has been erroneously attributed to the illumination by oblique light ; whereas the increased distinctness in the lateral position is owing principally to the circumstance that the object is then viewed on a dark instead of a white ground as in the first instance ; although it is also true that in this position the oblique rays , being reflected in large numbers from the fibres into the eye , contribute to the distinct vision of the object when viewed as it then is upon a dark ground .
The most difficult point has been to explain , how an objectglass of large angular aperture will render markings evident , which were not visible under an object-glass of smaller aperture ; because it would naturally be imagined that the larger aperture would admit both sets of rays , one of which was excluded by the object-glass of smaller aperture , The difficulty vanishes when it is recollected that the additional rays admitted by the object-glass of larger aperture are more oblique ; hence one set of these rays will be refracted from the field of the microscope , whilst the other set will enter the object-glass and will illuminate the more highly refractive parts of the object ; thus the two kinds of differently refractive structure become distinctly separated , one appearing dark , the other luminous ; in fact , by means of the additional rays admitted by the larger aperture we illuminate more highly one part of the object whilst the illumination of the other is not increased .
In short , the object is illuminated , first , by rays corresponding to those admitted by an object-glass of small aperture ; and , secondly , by the additional rays admitted by the object-glass of larger aperture .
The first set not being sufficiently oblique , no part of them is refracted beyond the angular aperture of the object-glass ; the second , being more oblique , are refracted out of the field by certain parts of the object and not by others , and thus contribute to render its different parts distinguishable by contrast of darkness and illumination .
The first set of rays , by illuminating all parts of the object , tend to diminish this contrast , and consequently do not add to but impair the discriminative power of the object-glass for the fine markings of transparent objects , and accordingly these are rendered more distinctly visible by intercepting the less oblique rays by means of a central stop .
It has been here assumed that the oblique light requisite for the display of the markings upon objects is separated into two sets of rays by refraction ; but the author observes that it might be questioned whether they are not separated by reflexion .
There can be no doubt that the latter is not generally the case ; perhaps the most important reason which may be assigned for this is , the considerable comparative breadth of the luminous portions of the valve of the Gyrosigma for instance .
On transmitting unilateral light obliquely through the valve of an Isthmia , in which the depressions are so large , in such manner that part of it is reflected by portions of them , it is easily seen how small the amount of reflected light is ; and this because the surface of the depressions is curved , and thus the portions inclined at the requisite angle for reflexion are also very small .
As the amount of light reflected is so small in this case , it would be inappreciable in that of the Gyrosigma , in which the depressions are so exceedingly minute .
In fact , attention to this point affords a ready means of distinguishing whether an object is illuminated by reflexion or refraction .
The author next considers the relation of the penetrating power of an object-glass to its defining power .
Penetrating power depends upon angular aperture , and consequently on oblique light .
The question whether there be any essential difference between penetrating and defining power is best answered by experiment .
If we take a fragment of the valve of an Isthmia and examine it under a high power of small aperture , all the parts are very distinctly seen by the ordinary light of the mirror ; and the various depths of shadow of the different parts of the depressions and the undepressed portions render these also clearly distinguishable ; and when an objectglass of very large aperture is used , the distinctness is rather impaired than improved .
But if we examine a fragment of the valve of a Gyrosigma , and this requires an object-glass of large aperture to render the markings visible , no distinction of the various parts of the depressions and the undepressed portions is visible ; all we see is , that the depressions as a whole are dark and the undepressed portions are luminous .
Hence the Isthmia requires defining power , whilst the Gyrosigma requires penetrating power or large angle of aperture to exhibit the markings ; yet the structures differ only in size .
And there can be no doubt that if we could examine the valve of the Gyrosigma under a power as high relatively to the size of the depressions , as that under which we can examine the Isthmia , the same relations being preserved between the angle of aperture of the object-glass and the angular inclination of the refracted rays , the various parts of the depressed and undepressed portions would be equally recognizable in both cases .
This is also true of fine lines scratched or etched on glass ; for although the coarser lines upon glass micrometers are well seen with an object-glass of small aperture with good defining power and direct light , yet the finest lines upon Nobert 's test-slide require penetrating power in the object-glass , and oblique light .
Large angular aperture or penetrating power is but a very imperfect substitute for defining power-an important point which the author believes has not hitherto been noticed , and to which he would invite the earnest attention of object-glass makers .
The author concludes by observing that his remarks have been principally confined to one class of objects requiring penetrating power , viz. the valves of the Diatomacee .
This has been done advisedly , because the scales of insects , which may be regarded as forming the type of the other class , involve considerations of a mixed kind , which would have tended to confuse the subject .
The longitudinal ridges upon the scales of insects , in their relation to penetration , may be viewed as representing the undepressed portions of the valves of the Diatomacese ; and the same explanation will apply to the visibility of both under various conditions .
The transverse lines seen upon the scales are not indications of true structure ; but their origin , as also that of the lines seen upon the valves of the Diatomacee , from circular or angular depressions , does not come within the conditions involved in the principle which it has been the object here to elucidate .
It will suffice to say that the true structures producing the appearance of transverse markings upon the scales of insects are best resolved by small angular aperture and good definition .
It has been assumed also , that the markings upon the valves of the Diatomacee arise from depressions .
This can be proved to be the case in the larger ones ( Isthmia , &amp;c. ) ; and there is sufficient evidence to render it at least-highly probable in the remainder .
But this is an unessential point as regards the principle , and therefore it has not been dwelt upon .

