]\gt ; On th of Brrors of .
369 XXVI .
' Ou the Rel tion betwccn the csistanc Metals their \ldquo ; es of Pure The Sociely } the to November 21 , 1901 .
\mdash ; On the heoly of Errors of rment , with Special eferencc 1 the uaCion.\ldquo ; ersity , London .
eceived April , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) In 1896 I , .
Alice .
A. series on the ) isection of lines at .
The )ject of these per ments to development of the theory of errors of obser it steadiness of judgment of to to determine the relative ations of ( instead of as two ) ) servers .
As collpnring the a rule the ) solute error of the ) er is and and I seeking test of steadiness in judgment to ased on ve jndgments .
If the ( Jeviation of the judgnlcnts of the first obscrve the standard tion s of the judgments of the first and thenthe s third , and the third ers respectively , ( i ) ou the basis of the of errors .
Thns it sccmed possible to minc itbsolutc dirless of judgment from tlJc s deviations of / ' judgments , hich { that the physicist or astro , provided thrcc vers not two were To great stlrprisc I results snch as ( i ) llot toly trnc , ( they failed to ) the ments of the ) we.rs were ) .
It did ltor occnr to me first judgments to the midpoints of experimC1lte ] the it is ) not lrlg the line at the , could ) corrc1 I looked jout f sonrce of iu the of the .
) had of isccted them at sight ; nnling the less tional to the of the , I dopted the tion fi om the Prof. Karl Pearson .
true midpoint to the right in terms of the length of the line as the error .
I was then led to realise the importance of what I have termed " " spurious correlation\ldquo ; in this use of indices or ratios , and I published a short notice of the subject in the ' .
Soc. Proc vol. 60 , p. 489 , 1896 .
It seemed necessary accordingly to make our judgments in a difierent manner , and a second series of 520 experiments was made by Dr. Alice Lee , Dr. W. F. , and myself , in which we observed the motion of a narrow beam of light down a uniform strip of fixed length , and recorded its position at the instant , priori unknown to us , at which a hammer struck a bell .
The experiment was made ) means of a pendulum devised ) .
Horace Darwin , and the record required combination of ear , eye , and hand judgment .
In the manipulation of the data there was no room for the appearance of " " spurious correlation but to my great snrprise I gain found snbstantial corrclation in two out of the three cases of what one might reasonably suppose to be absolutely independent judgments .
This led to a thorongh reinvestigation of the bisection experlments , and llot ratio errors ) eing now dealt with .
We found the result , correlation of rently independent judgments .
The absolute personal eqnations based on the average of twenty-five to thirty experimental sets were then plotted , and found to sympathy , and these tions were themselves beyond the order of the probable errors of random sampling .
Nor were the fiuctuat ons explicable solely by likeness of environment .
For in the bright hrle experiments while the judgme1lts of A and were seusibly uncorrelated , those of were ) stantially correlated with those of both A and B. Thus we were forced to the conclusiol that juclgment depends in the some few rather than upon marly personal characteristics , and that while A and had no common characteristics , thers were some common to A and and others common to and C. are iven to infer\mdash ; the ' in personal equation are not of the order of the probable tions due to random mpling .
( ii .
) these fluctmttions in the case of erent o , recording alltel indeendtly , sympathetic , beiIlg dne to the eIlce of the tmosphere of the tion or lment .
ristics , few in lmbcl , or of hlch be common to pair of observe1s .
this way grasp how the judgnlents of ' ' \ldquo ; servcrs may bc found to be ) stantially c. In the memoir ttentlOIl is to the importance of this , not only for the eightiug of combined ) tions , but for the problem of the stress to ] ) on the estimony of rently independent itnesscs to the same phenomenon .
On aticat Tof Errors of The rent theory of the personal equation th modification , and we re us appears to need for the true consideration of relative not only a knowledge of the variability of observers , but also of their correlation judgment as nec.essary supplements to the simple perso1lal cquation .
Having ) from our data twelve series of errors of ol , servati longer those often or even exceptionally dealt withon by , we had a good opportunity for testing the applicability of the ctlrrent of errors , the fitness of the to the of errors of ation .
In a proportio1l of the this cnrve ( to ) quite consi in cxcess and defect of equal magrJitude 1 not ness of ution , sensible ) of the om the mcall , " " ronnd the mean even in the case of symmetry , all existed to such an extent to makc th the error distril ) ntions ) .
random mples from ] odds ainst the of distribution .
It is deviation of the mode from the mean , and the independence of fonr error nloments , must ) featnres the first es of theory which cndcavonrs to describe the frequency of errors of tlon or of judgment lvithin the linlits the theory of random sampling .
The ults reached will serve to still there sisc the conclu , ions I before expressed : ( the rurlcnt of errors been ) ased too cxchlsively on mathematical axloms , not tested snfficiently each ) comparison observations or experiments .
the tlthority of , Poisson\mdash ; has given it an almost cter , so fiud it in rent use physicists , astronomers , And wl.iters kinetic theory of gnses , without a questio as to its fitness to sorts of servations ( and even ltlsensible phenomcI ) ) a high degree of the requisites of an cxtcroled theory arc that it mnst\mdash ; from the three txioms of the and and idcn them .
( ii .
) method of fitting theolcti , 1 to scrved distribntio1lS with as few as these lcqcnClCS easily closely related to the ters of ( iii .
) ) ) the from t mo 372 utions to the of Evolution .
I propose to consider these points in reference to the skew frequency distribntions discussed in a memoir in the ' Phil. Trans. ' for 1595 vol. 186 , et in another place .
The present memoir , however , shows that these skew distribntions give results immenscly more probable than the Gaussian curve , and thus confirms in the case of errors of observation the results reached in the case of organic variation .
Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of tion .
Supplement to a Memoir on Skew Variation By KABL , F. niversity College , London .
eceived M 22 , \mdash ; Read June 20 , 1901 .
stract .
In the second memoir of this series a system of curves suitable for describing skew distributions of frequency was deduced from the solutions of the differential equation ( i ) .
These ions were found to cover satisfactorily a } ery vide range of frequency distributions of all degrees of skewness .
Two forms of solution of this diiterential tion , depending certain relations among its constants , had , however , escaped observation , for the simple reason that all the distributions of actual frequency I had at that time met with fell into one or other of the four types dealt with in that memoir .
A little later the investigation of frequency in various cases of botanical variation showed that none of the four types were , and led me to the discovery I not folmd all the possible solutions of the differential equation above given .
Two new types were found to exist\mdash ; Typc : / ' ( ii ) , with a range from to , and Type : . .
( iii ) , with a range from to These cves were found to be exactly those lired in which my -workcrs and I ill England .
and one or two ists in discoveled led in the -pes I to impossible results , i.e. , to valucs of the staItts .
In the nlemoir the six types are , in their order , a cliteriolt given for ) veen them .
They thrcc examplcs : of ride on for a

