An Account of some Books .
I. GEORGII SINCLARI ARS NOVA &amp; MAGNA GRAVIT ATIS et LEVIT ATIS .
Ro .
terodami in 4~ A. 1669 .
THe Argument of this Book is the Spring and Pressure of the Air , together with some Considerations touching the Weight and Pressure of Water , as also concerning a Vacuum , the effects of Pumps ; item Pendulums , Hygroscopes &amp; c. Whether the Doctrine or Experiments , here delivered , be new and unheard of ( as the Author is pleased to think , they for the most part are ) we leave to the well-read and Intelligent to Judge .
Only we find ourselves obliged to take notice that that excellent Treatise of the Honorable Robert Boyle , entitled , New Experiments Physico-Mechanicall , touching the Spring of the Air and its Effects , was printed two years before that time , about which the Author of this Book saith , in his Preface to the Reader , he came to London , and there committed his then un-printed papers to the Censure of the Philosophical College there , meaning the Royal Society , of whom he complains in the said Preface , page .
2 .
that he expected an Answer from them for almost two years in vain ; adding , that he afterwards found , in divers Books printed in English , many things taken out of his Manuscript .
But to undeceive the Reader in this particular , we shall first desire him , to compare the date of the Edition of Mr Boils Book above-mentioned with that of the Time of this Authors visiting London , and there exposing his Manuscript ; that done , it will easily appear , which party hath the priority in the Explication of this Doctrine touching the Air : where it must not be left un-mentioned , that Mr Sinclair , when he was in London , in his visits of Mr. Boyle discoursed much with him on that subject , and by his own acknowledgment , then made to that Gentleman , received much light from him concerning the same .
Secondly , we shall take notice , that it is so great a mistake , that this Author commended his Manuscript to the Judgment of the R. Society , that it is not so much as mentioned any where in their Register-book , that such papers came ever before them ( which yet is their constant and careful practice to doe of all things of that nature ; ) to which we must add , that the person with whom he left those Papers of his , Sir Robert Moray ( perhaps with a desire to recommend them to that Illustrious Body ) affirms , that he did not at all judge them proper to be exhibited there , because they seemed to him to contain nothing new or extraordinary .
II .
OBSERVATIONES MEDICAE , Mich. Leyseri , Henr .
a Moinichen , Mart .
Bogdani , Jac. Seidelii , e Musaeo Th. Bartolini Hafniae in 8~ .
THough these Observations have been abroad these several years , yet coming but lately to our view , we could take no sooner notice of them .
Divers are not inconsiderable ; e. g. Of a Pleurisy , ending in an Abscess in the Thigh : Of an Abscess in the Thigh evacuated by Urine : Of a great clew of worms voided by crude Mercury taken inwardly : Of a Pleurisy cured without Blood-letting : Of the Bones of a faetus drawn out of the Mothers belly , she surviving and bearing several children afterwards : Of the opening of an Vterus closed from the birth : Of a big Stone found in the Emulgent veins of a Boy of 9 .
years old : of a Pin swallowed and breaking out of the Thigh 4 .
years after : Of a Nose cut off by the hand of Justice , and happily set and healed on again , by receiving it , when it fell off , into a warm loaf of bread cut in the middle , and so sowing it on : Of a Hen , bringing forth 5 well-formed and live chickins immediately out of her belly , which killed her : Of an odd heat in the extremest parts of the body , whilst the intermediat ones betwixt them and the heart were very cold : Of a Quartan cured by drinking very new Beer , and sweating largely upon it .
Of an Eye taken out of the Head of a living man , which being examined had all its humors converted into a tallowy matter : Of strange Convulsion-fits , accompanied with vomitings of odd matter , happily cured : Of an unusual ease of Melancholy , in which the Patient abhorred most kinds of me t , drink , vessels , and almost all people , fancying them to have touched or been touched by Epileptical persons : Of a Stone generated in the Tongue : &amp;c. Having inquired of an observing Correspondent , living in the Country , Whether he had met with any such Instances as was mentioned above , of a Viviparous Hen , he returned this Answer , that at Wackton in Norfolk , 2 .
or 3 .
years since , there was a Hen , which big with Eggs , upon some account could not lay , but after a time dyed ; and then being opened , there was found in the Ovarium a perfect chick , which was offered to a Physician in those parts to preserve .
III .
OTTONISTACHENIIHIPPOCRATES CHYMICU S. Venetiis in 12~ .
ANd this Author , though printed 2 .
or 3 .
years ago , came not to our knowledge , till now : He in this Tract , endeavours to justify the Ancients , blamed by Zwelser in his Pharmacophaea Augustana for having committed sever all faults in the preparation of a certain Salt called Theriacal because extracted out of Vipers and divers other Ingredients composing Theriack .
And having done this , he thence takes occasion to treat of the nature of Salts , especially of the Alcaly 's and Acids , which he , with some other Chymists , holds to be the first Principles of all mixed Bodies .
And being persuaded , that Hippocrates was also of this opinion , and a great Chymist too , he entitles this Book Hippocrates Chymicus .
Though the Salt Alcaly properly signifies that Salt which is drawn out of the Ashes of an Egyptian herb , named Kaly ; yet Chymists take it in a larger sense , and understand by that word all the Salts , which , like that of the said herb , draw and impregnate themselves with Acid ones .
To this Salt our Author refers almost all the Operations of Nature , and having examined its proprieties , relates divers not Un-curious Observations concerning it .
For Example : That nothing pierces so much as Alcaly 's , and that therefore Nature hath stored the Sweat of Animals so plentifully with it .
For , that the ordure , which continually gathers on the skin , would soon stop the pores of it , if the sweat were not furnished with some efficacious dissolvent to open and pierce them .
Where he observes , that the best liquored Boots , and such as are water-proof , will be quickly pierced by the sweat of Horses ; adding , that though Riding Post he had , to avoid that inconvenience , rubbed his Boots with a Vernice , which resisted even to Aqua fortis , yet the sweat of the Horses , he rode on , dissolved that fence after the second day of his voyage .
Next , he holds it to be an error , to use Spirit of Vitriol for Whitening the Teeth , Experience showing , that from the mixture of an Alcaly and the Spirit of Vitriol there results a yellow , and that there is an Alcaly continually transpiring out of the Gumms , as of all the other parts of the Body ; whence it must follow , that the Spirit of Vitriol employed to rubb the Teeth , when mixed with that Salt , must tinge them of the same colour .
Then he affirms , that wood rotten hath no Alcaly in it , and that it rots not but upon the account of the exhaling of that Salt .
Whence 'cis saith he , that the Venetians , to harden the Timber designed for building ofShips , sink it green in water , and there leave it many years ; which is the cause , that the Alcaly have ng been hindred from exhaling , the Timber rots not , and becomes as hard in a manner as stone .
We cannot pretermit taking notice , that this Author finds occasion in this Book to explain the way , by which the famous Turnheisser , a German Chymist , made that celebrated N il , half Gold and half Iron , which is showed at Florence , in the Repository of the Great Duke of Tuscany .
It is said , that that Chymist , having in the presence of that Prince immersed in a certain Oil the one half of a Nail , which appeared to be all Iron , that part , which touched the Oil , was instantly found to be good Gold .
Several persons having examined this Nail , and seeing the Gold and Iron exceeding well conjoined , were persuaded , that that could not be effected but by a true change of one of those two metals into the other , believing it impossible , they could be soder 'd together .
But the Author of this Book makes that a very easy thing , if the Iron be before prepared after a certain manner , which he teaches ; and he pretends , that that was the whole Secret of Turnheisser , the rest being nothing but illusion .
For , after he had by that means sodered together a piece of Gold with half a Nail , he knew so well to give the color of Iron to Gold , that men believed , that the whole Nail was of Iron ; and having afterwards put this Nail into the fire , and held it in the Oil to take off that colour , he made appear that Gold , which was hid before .
IV .
T H. BARTHOLINI Dissertatio de CYGNIANATOM E , nunc aucta aCAS P. BARTHOL IN O F. Hasniae in 8~ .
A. 1668 .
IN this Discourse the Author chiefly observes the wonderfulness of the internal fabric of this Stately B rd ; and more especially of the admirable structure of its Wind-pipe ; which is so framed , that together with the Oesophagus or Weasand it reaches down to the Sternum , into which , as a safe case , it winds it self , and being gone down to the bottom of that cavity is turned up again , and gets out of the streights of the Sternum , and climbing up the intermediate clavicles , on which it leans as on a base , it bends to the thorax .
But before it comes to the Thorax and the Lungs , it forms a kind of Larynx with an Os Hyoides , covered with a large membrane , and resembling a musical pipe , wide above , but with a narrow slit , and stre ght and depressed below .
Under which Larynx , before the Wind-pipe enters into the Lungs , it is divaricated into two branches , like unto bronchiaethicker in the middle , but narrower where they are near the Lungs : In which particular it differs from the human Arteria aspera , which , it is true , is also divided into branches , but not before it be entered into the Lungs .
After this description of the structure of this Organ he considers the fitness of its contrivance for such a Respiration , as was requisite for an Animal , that by long diving and sinking its neck to the bottom of waters was to find its food .
V. AE GIDIISTRAVCHIIBREVI ARE IVMCHRONOLOGICV M. Witebergae in 12~ .
VI .
ABREGECHRONOLOGIQVE DE L ' HISTOIRESACREE et PROPHAN E , par le P. Labbe dela Comp. de Jesus , Paris .
in 12 .
in 5 .
Volumes .
WE put these two Books together , because of the likeness of their Argument ; and we esteem also , that both these may deserve to be Joined to and compared with , that of Mr. Beverige , of which an Account was given in the Transactions of May last .
The former of these two is divided into two parts , a General and a Particular .
The General considers Time in general , and its various denominations and Characters , and especially explains that common Receptacle of all Epocha 's , the Iulian Period , enlarging upon its Uses and Advantages .
The Particular considers time in particular-demonstrating the certainty of Epocha 's , and enumerating the Calendars of the several Nations .
The latter Author , considering with himself , that of the writers of Chronology , some have contented themselves to teach only the Precepts thereof ; others , to reform the dates of it , and to mark the Characters of Times , without rehearsing the considerable passages of them ; others on the contrary confounding Chronology with History , have recited the remarkable Events , without much troubling themselves about the time , wherein they happened ; this Author , I say , hath attempted to join them altogether in this Work .
And , First , He gives an Introduction , in which he explains , what is the Indiction , the Cycle , the Epoch , and all the other terms of Chronology .
Secondly , Forasmuch as the Epocha 's , whence we begin to reckon the Years , are the foundations of Chronology , he treats accurately of the Year of our Saviours Nativity and Death ; of the Years of the Kings of France of the first and second Race , and of the other celebrated Epocha 's .
Thirdly , He delivers in short all the more remarkable passages of every Year since the Creation of the World till the Year 1666 .
indicating the Authors , whence an ampler information may be taken .
And to establish certain principles of Chronology , he places at the beginning of all Years the Names of the Consuls , Cycles , Indictions , Eclipses , and all the other Characters , that distinguish the Years from one another .
And he often does not content himself with marking the Year , in which the more notable things have happened , but he adds also the Month and Day , especially in the latter Ages ; which is a great relief upon many occasions .
Fourthly , He hath a particular Discourse , wherein he examines , in what time Dido lived , and shows , that she was dead before the Birth of AEneas , against the opinion of a modern Author ; and consequently that whatsoever Virgil hath said of the Marriage of that Queen with this Prince , is fabulous FINIS Printed by T. N. for John Martyn Printer to the Royal Society , and are to be sold at the Bell a little without Temple-Bar , 1669

