1894 .
] Contributions to the Life-History of the 155 V " Contributions to the Life-History of the Foraminifera .
" By J. J. Lister , M.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Alfred Newton , F.R.S. Received May 7 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The phenomenon of dimorphism is now known to be presented by many different species of Foraminifera .
The individuals of a species fall into two groups .
In one the central chamber ( the Megasphere of Munier-Chalmas and Schlum-berger ) is of considerable size , while in the other it is small ( sphere ) .
These two forms of a species may be distinguished as the Megalospheric and Microspheric forms .
They have been shown to differ , not only in the size of the central chamber , but , in some instances ( Miliolidse ) , in the plan on which the chambers are arranged , in the size attained by the full-grown shell , and also in the frequency of their occurrence , the megalospheric-form being much the more abundant .
It has been suggested that the different conditions under which Orbulinauniversa is found represent the megalospheric and micro-spheric forms , but the reasons urged in favour of this view appear inconclusive .
Polystomella crispa { Linn. ) .
With the hope of throwing light on the life history of the Foraminifera , a large number of specimens of this species have been examined .
Like so many others , it is dimorphic .
Though the two forms are indistinguishable when the shell is complete , on examining decalcified and stained specimens they may be at once referred to one form 01 the other .
The central chamber of the megalospheric form is generally about 80 / l in diameter , while that of the microspheric form is about 10fi .
Associated with the difference in the size of the central chambers there is a marked difference in the nuclei of the two forms .
The relative frequency of the megalospheric form to the microspheric* in 1812 examples , is as 34 to 1 .
In the Microspheric form numbers of small nuclei are present , scattered through the protoplasm , but not extending into the terminal chambers .
Those in the inner chamber are smaller than those-situated further on .
The nuclei contain nucleoli of different sizes lying in an apparently homogeneous internucleolar substance .
It is shown that the nuclei increase in number by simple division , and it appears probable that they are so derived from a single nucleus. .
Mr. J. J. Lister .
Contributions to [ June 7 .
After maintaining their rounded form for a certain time , the nuclei :give off portions of their substance into the surrounding protoplasm .
This process appears to begin in the innermost chambers , but it ex- 5 tends to the nuclei in the outermost chambers , and ultimately the j whole of the nuclear material is distributed through the protoplasm I in the form , in preserved specimens , of irregularly branched and \#166 ; deeply staining strands .
Of the further history of the microspheric I form I have no clear evidence .
The Megalospheric form during the vegetative period of its life has a single large nuclens , which grows in size with the growth of the I protoplasm , and passes on from chamber to chamber , moving to- i wards the centre of the protoplasm contained in the series of -chambers , though lagging some distance short of it .
It consists of a nuclear reticulum , nucleoli which occupy the nodes of the reticulum , and of a substance occupying the meshes .
The nucleoli appear to increase in number and diminish in size with the advance of the organism .
There is reason to believe that as the nucleus moves on through the chambers portions of its substance are given off into the protoplasm .
It appears that this may occur either by the separation .of considerable portions , sometimes containing several nucleoli , which lie strewn along the track of the nucleus , or by the dispersal of minute fragments into the surrounding protoplasm , causing in stained specimens a flush in the neighbourhood of the nucleus .
In \#171 ; ome specimens the nucleus has lost its rounded form , and sends irregular processes into the protoplasm .
Its staining properties aref .at the same time diminished .
It appears probable that these nuclei are such as have given off a large part of their substances as above described , and are now in process of dissolution .
In the reproductive phase no large nucleus is present , but hosts of minute nuclei ( 1\#151 ; 2 pin diameter ) are found scattered through the ?
protoplasm .
At the same time broad channels of communicationf have become opened up , setting the inner chambers in direct com-* munication with the outer .
At first the small nuclei are most abundant in the terminal chain-1 bers , but ultimately they become uniformly distributed through the* protoplasm .
They then divide by karyokinesis , the protoplasm being 1 .aggregated about them in spherical masses , 3 5/ u , in diameter , each of* which contains a dividing nucleus .
At a later stage each nucleus , presumably the daughter-nuclei of* this division , becomes the centre of a flagellated spore .
These spores* \#166 ; are all of approximately equal size , in other words , they are .
* In one instance spores of a different character were observed I escaping .
These were anisospores .
They consisted of , \#166 ; .globular bodies having a diameter of 11\#151 ; 10 and with indica- * tions of a flagellum , and microspores of a globular or oval shape , from i 1894 .
] f/ te Life-History of the ( 3_1 fi in diameter and provided with two flagella , one longer than the other , rising close together from the body of the spore .
I am unable to say whether the parent of these spores was megalospheric or micro-spheric , but as the isospores are produced by the individuals of the former type it is possible that the anisospores belong to those of the latter .
Orbitolites complanata , Lamb .
In the Microspheric form , the centre of the disc is occupied by small chambers .
Numbers of rounded nuclei are distributed through the protoplasm , often in pairs , and in some cases they may be seen to be united by a constricted band , as though in process of simple division .
Larger solitary nuclei with a well marked reticulum are also present .
In the later stages of growth large brood chambers are formed at the periphery of the disc , which Brady found to be crowded with young ( " primitive discs " ) of the megalospheric form .
Examination of specimens preserved in spirit in which the young are present in the brood chambers , shows that the inner part of the shell is empty , its contents being represented only by the young .
A large nucleus is present in the " primordial chambers " of the young discs .
The centre of the Meg alo spheric form is occupied by the " primitive disc .
" This consists of a large " primordial chamber " ( the megalo-spliere ) , which is usually pyriform , and measures about 100/ t in length , surrounded by the very large " circumambient chamber .
" The small chambers of the remainder of the disc are arranged about the primitive disc in rings .
The nucleus which , as has been said , occupies the primordial chamber in the young form , maintains that position during a large part of the growth of the shell .
Ultimately it appears to break up into irregular fragments , which become dispersed through the adjoining chambers .
The specimens of this form from Celebes have all attained a larger size than those from Tonga and Fiji .
In three cases ( out of 114 ) the protoplasm has left the central region of the disc , and is massed in brood chambers at the periphery in the form of megalospheric young , exactly resembling in shape and size those borne by the microspheric form .
It is thus established that both the megalospheric and microspheric forms of Orbitolites under certain circumstances , produce young of the megalospheric type .
An examination of specimens of beccarii ( Linn. ) , Truncatulina lobatula , Walker and Jacob , Galcarina hispida , Brady , and dlypeus has furnished evidence of the relation of nuclear characters to the two forms of a species analogous to that obtained in Polystomella .
158 Mr. J. J. Lister .
Contributions to [ June 7 Summary and Conclusions .
The following statements relating to the life-history of the For-aminifera appear to be justified :\#151 ; 1 .
The species are in a great number of cases dimorphic .
The dimorphism has been stated to exist in twenty-three genera , belong , ing to four out of the ten families into which Brady divided the .group .
2 .
The two forms differ from one another\#151 ; O ) In the size of the central chamber .
Their difference in this respect is in many cases very marked but may be slight ( Truncatulina ) .
( b ) In the shape and mode of growth of the chambers succeeding j the megalosphere and microsphere .
( c)In the character of their nuclei .
In this paper it is shown i that in several species the microspheric form has many comparatively small nuclei , while the megalospheric form has a single large nucleus .
3 .
The megalospheric form of a species is much more numerous than the microspheric .
4 .
The megalospheric form has been seen to arise in some cases ( at least seven genera ) as a young individual already invested by a shell , produced in the terminal or peripheral chambers of the parent .
While in some cases ( Orbitolites ) the parent of such megalospheric young was microspheric , in others ( , Orbitolites ) it was megalosphei'ic .
5 .
Foraminifera , in certain conditions , give rise to active swarm cells .
These have been previously recorded in and Gymbalopora . .
In Polystomella the protoplasm of a megalospheric form was found broken up into swarm cells of uniform size ( isospores ) , and similar bodies in a flagellated condition have been seen escaping .
The production of anisospores has been recorded in I ( Schneider ) , and it occurs also in Polystomella as stated above .
The question has arisen : are the two forms of the Foraminifera \#166 ; distinct from their origin , or is one a modification of the other ?
; The following reasons may be urged for rejecting the latter hypothesis :\#151 ; Among the Miliolidoe the plan of growth is often entirely different 1 in the two forms .
The hypothesis of modification wrould in this case | require a remodelling of the whole shell .
If such modification were to occur , various stages in the replacement of the megalosphere by small chambers should be found .
So ; far as I am aware such stages have not been found .
1894 .
] the Life-History of the Foraminifera .
While the megalospheric form is not found in process of transition into the microspheric , it is found , either with the protoplasm broken up into swarm cells ( Polystomella ) , or containing megalospheric young in the peripheral chambers , while the central chambers are empty ( Orbitolites ) .
In both cases the megalosphere remained unabsorbed at the centre of the shell .
The microspheric form is found in the young condition .
The nuclear characters of the two forms are , at any rate , in the species which I have examined , quite distinct .
It appears then that it may safely be concluded that the microspheric and megalospheric forms are distinct from their origin .
What then is their relationship P When two forms of a species are met with in animals or plants they generally either represent different sexes , or they are members of a recurring cycle of generations .
The hypothesis that the two forms of the Foraminifera represent the two sexes appears to be disproved by the fact that in Orbitolites complanata , both megalospheric and microspheric forms are found with the young of the megalospheric form ( primitive discs ) in their brood chambers .
Other genera furnish analogous , though less complete evidence .
Hence it is Impossible to regard either form as male .
We turn then to the other hypothesis that the two forms are members of a recurring cycle of generations .
On this view it is necessary to suppose , from the evidence afforded by Orbitolites planata , in which both microspheric and megalospheric forms have been found with the young of the megalospheric form in their brood chambers , that the megalospheric form may , at any rate in some genera , be repeated for one or more generations , before the microspheric form recurs .
Ho evidence of such a repetition has , however , been furnished by the examination of Polystomella .
The view that the life-history of the Foraminifera comprises more than one generation is in harmony with the fact that the nuclear history of the two forms in Polystomella , so far as it has been observed , presents resemblances to that which Brandt has recently described in Thalassicola among the Radiolaria .
In this group , as is well known , the individuals of a species fall into two sets , those producing isospores and those producing anisospores , which are regarded as an asexual generation alternating with a sexual .
The simultaneous division of nuclei by karyokinesis immediately before the formation of the reproductive elements which was observed in the megalospheric form of Polystomella is a phenomenon of very general occurrence .
A similar division has been shown to occur Presents .
--\#151 ; [ June 7 , in several genera of the Mycetozoa immediately before the formation of the spores , and it appears probable that the phenomenon is akin to the division of the micro-nucleus which precedes conjugation in the Infusoria , and to the division of nuclei which occurs in the maturation of the reproductive elements in the higher forms of animals and plants .
Presents , June 7 , 1894 .
Transactions .
Buda-Pesth :\#151 ; Ungarische Geologische Gesellschaft .
Foldtani Kozlony .
Kotet XXIV .
Fiizet 1\#151 ; 5 .
8vo .
Budapest 1894 .
The Society .
Cracow:\#151 ; Academie des Sciences .
Bulletin International .
Avril , 1894 .
8vo .
Cracovie .
The Academy !
KharkofF:\#151 ; Societe des Sciences Experimentales .
Travaux de la Section Medicale .
1893 .
[ Russian .
] 8vo .
1894 .
The Society .
Lausanne : Societe Yaudoise des Sciences Xaturelles .
Bulletin .
Yol .
XXX .
Xo .
114 .
8vo .
Lausanne 1894 .
The Society .
Leipsic : Konigl .
Sachs .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Abhandlungen ( Math.-phys .
Classej .
Bd .
XXI .
Xo .
1 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1894 ; Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen ( Math.-phys .
Class ) .
1894 .
Xo .
1 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1894 .
The Society .
London:\#151 ; British Astronomical Association .
Journal .
Yol .
IY .
Xo .
6 .
8vo .
London 1894 .
The Association .
Geologists ' Association .
Proceedings .
Vol. XIII .
Xo .
7 .
8vo .
London 1894 .
The Association .
Photographic Society of Great Britain .
Journal and Transactions .
Yol .
XYI1I .
Xo .
9 .
8vo .
London 1894 .
The Society .
Xew YorkAmerican Museum of Xatural History .
Bulletin .
Yol .
YI .
Pages 139\#151 ; 160 .
8vo .
[ New ] 1894 .
, The Museum .
; Paris:\#151 ; Ecole Xormale Superieure .
Annals Scientifiques .
Tome XI .
Xo .
5 .
4to .
Paris 1894 .
The School .
Societe de Geography .
Bulletin .
Tome XIY .
Trim .
4 .
8vo .
Paris 1894 .
The Society , j Societe Mathematique .
Bulletin .
Tome XXII .
Xo .
4 .
8vo .
\ Paris [ 1894 ] .
^ The Society .
Santiago : Sociedad Xacional de Mineria .
Boletin .
Aiio XI .
E~o .
65 .
4 to .
Santiago de ( Jliile 1894 .
The Society .

