272 Mr. W. Gardiner .
On Continuity of the [ Nov. 16 structure .
Granting that light is the cause of distension proportionate to functional activity and in excess of the passive properties of the tissue , the pulvinar tissues throughout during the incidence of light will contain a functional excess of liquid , and the withdrawal of light will lead to a general diminution of distension\#151 ; the non-illumi-nated tissues parting with the functional excess of fluid , and retaining merely the amount proportional to their diminished activity .
But those portions of tissue providing the greatest facilities for redistribution of fluids must , other things being alike , tend most rapidly to arrive at their passive condition of tension .
In the pulvini , then , it is quite possible that those portions of tissue which are characterised by excessive diurnal activity and functional distension may attain their passive condition sooner than the others do , due to their respective structural peculiarities .
But from the period at which the one part of the pulvinus has attained its passive condition until the other has also done so , a continuous alteration in their relative tensions must take place .
Those portions of tissue which tend to the assumption of 1 the diurnal position will , according to this , on the onset of darkness , | rapidly attain their maximum relative weakness , and after this will i become relatively stronger until the , opposing portions have also arrived at their passive condition of tension .
An early development of the maximum nocturnal position , and a subsequent reversion towards the diurnal one , such as actually occurs , might therefore be looked for on a priori grounds .
Nocturnal reversion may probably in great measure he thus explained , but , as indeed in the case of other movements , other factors such as variations in the absolute j weight and consequent leverage of various parts of the leaves con- j nected with variations in amount of respiration and assimilation no doubt come more or less into play .
IY .
" On the Continuity of the Protoplasm in the Motile Organs of Leaves .
" By Walter Gardiner , B.A. , late Scholar of Clare College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received November 11 , 1882 .
In a preliminary note published in the " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science , " for October , 1882 , I stated that I had succeeded in demonstrating that the continuity of the protoplasm of adjacent cells in the pulvinus of Mimosa pudica was maintained by protoplasmic filaments , which passed through pits in the cell wall .
1 have since then shown that the same occurs in Robinia and Amiria In Phaseolus the connexion is much less pronounced , and as yet I 1882 .
] Protoplasm , in the Motile Organs of Leaves .
273 mnst withhold any definite decision upon it .
I cannot , however , doubt that protoplasmic continuity is of very frequent occurrence , both in pulvini , stems , roots , and tubers , and I regret that some short time must elapse before I can publish any detailed account of my further researches .
Since the winter season was rapidly advancing , I instituted other ^experiments with fresh material , with a view to confirm , if possible , results obtained by strong reagents , whose action was necessarily attended with grave alteration of the tissues .
As a consequence of j these experiments , some new and important facts bearing on the \ phenomenon of Plasmolysis have come to light .
Hugo deVries , in his work on cell turgescence , has shown that by treating fresh uninjured cells with progressively stronger and stronger solutions of a neutral salt , e.g.,4 per cent , and 6 per cent , of nitre , the protoplasm ( primordial utricle ) will undergo more and more contraction , until with a 10 per cent , solution , it will entirely separate from the cell wall , and appear as a much contracted vesicle lying freely in the cell f cavity .
In repeating these experiments I have , however , found that in a very great number of cases\#151 ; I dare not at present say in all\#151 ; the i contracted primordial utricle is connected to the cell wall by fine j strings of protoplasm .
The phenomenon is very distinctly shown by I the cells of the " main pulvinus of Ro pseudacacia , in which I first | made the discovery .
Very frequently , instead of there being one main mass connected to the cell wall by the fine threads above-men-I tioned , the cell protoplasm becomes divided into two or three globular masses , all of which are united to each other , and to the cell wall .
The connecting threads very generally exhibit nodal thickenings , each node presenting a most perfect spherical form .
Since the sections examined must be somewhat thick to avoid cutting into the cells , observations as to the relation of the threads with the pits present some difficulty .
However , in several well-defined instances I have seen clearly that many threads do go to pits , and also that in two adjoining cells , many threads on different sides of the common cell wall are exactly opposite one another .
When saturated salt solution is added , some of the threads may give way .
Each free | end immediately contracts : the one to the main mass , and the other I to form a minute sphere lying on the side of the cell wall .
I have succeeded fairly well in fixing and staining these plasmolytic figures .
The above plasmolytic phenomena are apparent in all the pulvini I have examined , e.g. , Desmodium , Mimosa , Robinia , Phoseolus , Apios , \amp ; c. I have also observed it in stems and roots , notably in the Reet .
I should also mention here that I have succeeded in showing the passage of the protoplasm through the cell wall when the wall is -274 Dr. A. Ransom . .
On Bacilli in Phthisis .
[ Nov. 16 , left intact , and not swollen by reagents , the method consisting in treating thin sections of fresh material at once with saturated picric acid , washing with alcohol , and staining with aniline blue .
V. " Note on the Discovery of Bacilli in the Condensed Aqueous Vapour of the Breath of Persons affected with Phthisis .
" By Arthur Ransom , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Dr. W. Roberts , F.R.S. Received November 8 , 1882 .
In the year 1869 I communicated to the Literary and Philosophical -Society of Manchester a paper " On the Organic Matter of the Human Breath in Health and Disease " ( Memoirs , vol. iv , 3rd Series , p. 234 ) .
i The method employed was to condense the vapour of the breath in a large glass globe , surrounded by ice and salt ; and the fluid so collected j was then examined chemically and microscopically .
The vapour in1 condensing was found to carry with it all the organic matter con- .
tained in the breath .
Certain chemical variations in this fluid were noted , and in addition to epithelial scales , which were also found in j health , the breath of diseased persons was found to contain certain .organised bodies .
It appeared probable that the breath of persons in advanced stages of phthisis would contain the bacillus of tubercle , and that this organism could be rendered visible by the method of staining .
The aqueous vapour of the breath of certain cases of advanced j phthisis was accordingly condensed in above-mentioned manner , and .each specimen was separately examined .
In order to carry down the I organic particles , and to afford a basis by which the substances obtained could be made to adhere to the microscopic cover-glasses , it was necessary to add some glutinous material to the condensed fluids .
In some instances I used for this purpose fresh white of an egg , in others mucus from the mouth , that had been separately examined by staining , and which had been found free from bacilli .
No attempt was made to sterilise any of the fluids , the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction being left unstained in the process used .
The method of staining employed was that suggested by Dr. Heneage Gribbes , in which magenta and aniline are first used , and then after discharging the colour , from all but the bacilli , by dilute nitric acid , chrysoidin is used to throw them into relief .
( See " Brit. Med. Journal , " August 5 , 1882 .
) It is affirmed that by this method only .the Bacillus tuberculosus is stained red .
I have now to state that in the aqueous vapour obtained from two persons suffering from phthisis , I have found specimens of a bacillus , which takes the staining in the same manner as the bacillus found in

