III .
A Letter from Mr. John Ferguson , Surgeon , to William Chiselden , Esq ; Surgeon to Chelsea College , F. R. S. &amp;c. containing an Account of the Extirpation of part of the Spleen of a Man .
SIR , Strabane , Feb. 18 .
1734-5 .
THOUGHI have not the Honour to be known to you , I make bold to trouble you with the following Case , which lately happened in my Practice .
I imagine it uncommon ; for though you have taken the Spleen out of a Dog , without any remarkable Inconvenience ; yet it has never been attempted , that I know of , in a human Body .
I assure you the Affair is literally true , and , if required , could have it attested by several who were Eye-witnesses .
As I believe you to be a Gentleman that is curious , and fond of any Discovery that is new , I flatter myself you will not be offended with the Freedom I now take ; and that if you think this worth your Notice , you will be pleased to favour me with your Opinion of it , and whether you have known such a Case happen before .
This will add to the Obligations I acknowledge myself under to you , for the Benefit I have already received from your Writings , which I greatly esteem , and am with the greatest Respect , Dear SIR , Your most obedient , humble Servant , John Ferguson .
ON the 5th of January last , I was called to Thomas Conway , who had received a Wound with a Skane or great Knife , which went through the muscular part of his Fore-Arm , and into the Left Hypochondrium ; it was 24 Hours after he had received the Wound before I saw him ( living 12 Miles distant from me ) .
I found the Spleen out at the Wound , and that what by pressing and thrusting of it with the Fingers , endeavouring to return it into its Place , which they that were about him could not accomplish , and by being so long exposed to the Air , it was quite cold , black and mortified .
I considered that cutting away the mortified Part , must be attended with the greatest Danger , and was , to me , an unprecedented Case ; yet that the Patient must inevitably die , if it was not done : I therefore made a Ligature with a strong waxed Thread , above the unsound Part , and cut off three Ounces and a half of the Spleen : Notwithstanding the Ligature , there was a pretty large Artery that sprung with great Violence , which I immediately tied up ; and , after bathing all the Parts with warm Wine , I returned the remaining part of the Spleen into its Place , leaving the Ends of the Threads out of the Wound , to draw them away by when they should digest off , which they did on the 10th Day , and came away with the Dressings : I dressed the Wound with Digestives , and the Abdomen was stuped twice a Day with an emollient Fomentation , and after stuping it was always malaxated with an emollient Liniment , which he told me always gave him Ease .
What he most complained of , was that he could not make Water , for which I every Day gave him a Carminative Clyster , which kept his Belly from swelling ; and always when the Clyster came away , he got some Water made along with it : This Symptom went off on the seventh or eighth Day .
He is now perfectly well recovered , following his Business , and finds no Inconvenience from the want of the Part of the Spleen which he lost .
The Wound through his Arm was also quickly cured .

