None " On the Question of Fractional Activity ( " or Phenomenon ) in Mammalian Reflex Phenomena .
By T. Graham Brown ( Carnegie Fellow).* ( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received June 17 , \#151 ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University of Liverpool .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE I. Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
132 II .
The Experimental Evidence ... ... ... ... .
132 III .
Objections to " all or nothingness " .
134 IV .
Methods here employed ... ... ... ... ... .
136 V. Results ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
137 VI .
Conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 139 VII .
Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
141 I. Introduction .
At the present moment the question whether or not there is a state of " all or nothing " activity in reflex arcs seems to be raised , and it is one of importance to the future of investigation of the functions of the nervous system .
Of the two views which may be held regarding the manner of the activity of reflex arcs one is that in which it is supposed that the efferent neurone may react with different degrees of intensity in different reflex activities , and that the afferent neurones may play with different degrees of intensity upon efferent neurones or upon interposed neurones .
The other view , which seems now to be dawning , is one in which it is supposed that the efferent neurone has no grading in the intensity of its activity\#151 ; it either reacts maximally or not at all ; and if this be demonstrated it may perhaps he inferred that the afferent neurones act in a similar manner\#151 ; that is , that their activity is either " all or none .
" It is obvious that , if either of these views is shown to be the correct one , , the course of research will in the future be modified .
II .
The Experimented Evidence .
There is , at present , little direct experimental evidence bearing upon the question of " all or nothing " activity in reflex arcs .
* The expenses of this research have been defrayed by a grant from the Carnegie Trust .
Fractional Activity in Mammalian Reflex Phenomena .
133 But in 1902 Gotch* showed that the electric organ of Malapterurus , which is served by a single efferent fibre , as compared with that of Torpedo , which is served by many fibres , has a much smaller range of reactions to reflex \#166 ; excitation .
He yet states that within very restricted limits the organ shock is slightly augmented when an effective stimulus applied to its nerve is increased in intensity .
He also notes that the initial shock reflexly evoked is variable in intensity , but he states that a considerable factor in this variation of intensity is probably fatigue of the nerve endings in the organ .
There is , however , some evidence which seems to show that the efferent nerve fibre and the effector organ ( skeletal muscle ) when stimulated artificially by faradic shocks may respond in an " all or nothing " manner to the peripheral stimulus .
In 1905 Keith Lucasf showed that when the exciting current which is applied to the skeletal muscle of the frog is gradually increased in strength the contraction of that muscle increases , not pari passu , but in abrupt steps .
Four years later the same investigator showed^ that in the frog 's cutaneus dorsi muscle , there is an " all or nothing " contraction of the muscle fibres in response to stimulation of the efferent nerve fibres\#151 ; submaximal contraction .of the whole muscle being due to a maximal contraction of less than the whole number of constituent muscle fibres .
Veszi , in 1911 , S made a curious observation which seems to throw doubt upon the " all or nothing " phenomenon in reflex conduction .
He found , in the de-afferented frog , that in the state of strychnine poisoning there is an " all or nothing " contraction of gastrocnemius in response to stimulation of the cut afferent roots .
A threshold stimulus evokes a maximum muscular response .
But when this has fatigued by repetition of stimulation , a stronger stimulus again gives a maximum response .
In the following year the same observer|| came to the conclusion that the fresh amphibian efferent nerve-fibres follow the " all or nothing " rule ; but that when fatigued the value of the excitatory process varies with the value of the exciting stimulus .
Slightly more recently AdrianH has investigated this question .
He finds that a propagated disturbance in the efferent nerve fibres of amphibian nerve which has been reduced in magnitude by passing through a region of * * * S * ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 28 , p. 395 .
t ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1905 , vol. 33 , p. 125 .
X ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1909 , vol. 38 , p. 113 .
S ' Zeitschr .
fur allgem .
Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 12 , p. 358 .
|| ' Zeitschr .
fur allgem .
Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 13 , p. 321 .
IF 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 45 , p. 389 .
Mr. Graham Brown .
decrement regains its original size when it emerges into normal tissue .
He points out that this favours the supposition that the relation between the disturbance and the strength of the evoking stimulus is of an " all or nothing " character .
Quite recently Mines* has given a description of experiments which suggest either that there is no gradation in the response of efferent amphibian nerve fibres to graded stimuli consisting of single induction shocks , or that the smallest excitation is capable of exciting any neuro-muscular synapse which can be excited by single impulses .
These various experiments certainly seem to point to the conclusion that the response both of the peripheral efferent nerve fibres and of the muscle fibres of the skeletal muscles is of an " all or nothing " character when the exciting stimulus is an artificial electrical one .
And there is a temptation to argue from this that the activity of the same efferent nerve fibres and skeletal muscle fibres in the less artificial reflex excitation is also of an " all or nothing " character .
If this view be taken we must suppose the efferent neurone to discharge maximally or not at all .
We must look at the reflex mechanism as one split longitudinally into units ( as indeed we do look at it ) , which are each either maximally active or inactive , but never of intermediate activity .
We must suppose that the grading of the muscular response is due to the differing proportions of its component units which at any one time are in action .
But we must even then admit that a certain sort of grading of activity may occur even in one efferent neurone\#151 ; for it might be supposed that the discharges proceeding from it might vary in frequency .
A subsidiary question is that of the possibility of a similar " all or nothing " character in the activity of the afferent neurones .
III .
Objections to " Al or At first sight it might seem that a strong objection to the " all or none ' ' character of afferent activities is before our eyes on any clear and moonless night .
The stars appear to be of very different brightness , although the size of their images upon the retina is almost infinitely small and , theoretically at any rate , must be looked upon as stimulating only one retinal element each .
It might seem that it is hardly possible to explain the number of distinguishable brightnesses as due to different numbers of retinal elements stimulated\#151 ; for instance , are as many as ten stimulated in the case of a bright star , and as few as one in a star on the limit of visibility ?
* '.Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1913 , vol. 46 , p. 1 .
Fractional Activity in Mammalian Reflex Phenomena .
135 Plausible as this objection to the " all or none " character of a certain specific afferent activity seems , it must be remembered that the imperfections of the eye may condition irradiation and halation sufficient to allow of the explanation of the phenomenon on the " all or nothing " principle .
But again , a wide range of touch sensations of different intensities may be obtained on stimulating the one point on the skin with stimuli of different values\#151 ; and this even when the area of skin stimulated is supplied by a single afferent nerve .
Here there seems to be no " all or none " response to graded stimulation .
Yet again , Sherrington* found for the scratch-reflex of the spinal dog that a dozen or more grades in the reflex response might be obtained on graded punctiform stimulation of the same skin-point\#151 ; that is , of the same afferent nerve fibre .
These two latter observations seem to point very strongly to the conclusion that there must be a grading of the response , at any rate , in certain varieties of afferent nerve fibres of the mammal in reply to graded intensity of stimulation .
And when we examine the possibility that the reflex discharge of the efferent neurone is of an " all or none " character certain difficulties are presented .
In the first place we have Sherrington'sf statement that in a reflex response of the muscles of the hind limb of the mammal all the contractors are active in the minimal reaction , and that grading of the intensity of the reaction in response to grading of the intensity of the stimulus is accomplished by an increase in the activity of each contractor .
If , however , the activity of each individual contractor is conditioned by a fractional activity of its fibres , it is , at any rate , strange that the thresholds of the most excitable fractions should be the same in all the contractors .
Secondly\#151 ; perhaps not a very grave difficulty\#151 ; there is the question of " tonus .
" This slight contraction on the " all or none " theory must be looked upon as due to the activity of a few of the muscle fibres only .
But no sagging or wrinkling is seen in parts of a tonically contracted muscle , and the pull of the muscle where the tendon is a broad one is not seen more at one side than another .
Thirdly\#151 ; and a more formidable difficulty\#151 ; the " beats " of the scratch-reflex are usually " incomplete .
" That is to say , the flexor ( for instance ) exhibits a series of partial relaxations and reconstitutions of contraction .
These may be looked upon as conditioned by a series of incomplete refractory phases .
Now under an " all or nothing " theory each partial relaxation must * 1 Journ. Physiol. , ' 1906 , vol. 34 , p. 1 .
t ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 40 , p. 28 .
Mr. Graham Brown .
be looked upon as produced by the " complete " relaxation of a proportion of the muscle fibres\#151 ; or by the " complete " inhibition of a proportion of the efferent neurones .
But Sherrington* has shown that the refractory phase extends over the whole centre\#151 ; just as Zwaardemakerf showed the same phenomenon for deglutition .
As regards this , the centre is therefore a unit , and in some manner innervated as a whole from each afferent neurone .
It is , however , impossible to suppose that each afferent comes into direct contact with each efferent in the mechanism ; and under any other supposition it is extremely difficult to realise the meaning of this unity if the efferent discharges have an " all or none character .
IV .
Methods here Employed .
If a skeletal muscle exhibits a larger number of degrees of contraction than there are efferent nerve fibres running to it , there must be a very strong supposition that the reflex response has not an " all or none " character .
In such a case the deduction from the result would not need to be influenced by the number of afferent fibres stimulated .
Unfortunately , the large number of efferent fibres which supply most of the skeletal muscles makes this experiment in their cases impossible .
In the cat , however , a most beautiful muscle in the hind limb\#151 ; tenuissimus \#151 ; seems almost to have been made for this experiment .
This muscle is a thin band of only 2 or 3 mm. in breadth , but many centimetres long .
It arises from the caudal vertebrae at the root of the tail , and passes down deep in the thigh , until it ends in the leg by blending with the insertion of biceps .
For the upper part of its length it lies near the great sciatic nerve , from which , near its middle , it receives its nerve supply .
Occasionally it receives more than one nerve twig , and , in any case , its chief nerve divides into two branches ( occasionally into more than two ) before it reaches the muscle .
The number of nerve fibres in each of these branches is small .
The cats used were decerebrate and low spinal .
All the muscles of the left hind limb were destroyed by motor paralysis .
In the right hind limb all were destroyed save tenuissimus .
The great sciatic nerve was ligatured after it had divided into external and internal popliteals .
The biceps muscle was divided transversely to its length about the middle , and tenuissimus was thus exposed .
All but the uppermost of the branches of its motor nerve were severed , * ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 31 , 'Physiol .
Soc. Proc. , ' March 19 , 1904 ; ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1906 , vol. 34 , p. 1 .
t ' Archives Internat .
de Physiol. , ' 1904 , vol. 1 , p. 1 .
Fractional Activity in Mammalian Rejlex Phenomena .
137 and the muscle was cut across a little below the point where its nerve reached it .
A fine silk thread connected it to the recording lever .
This was a fine heart lever pivoted on agate cups .
A fine silk thread was placed loosely round the intact branch of the motor nerve .
Electrodes were placed on the great sciatic nerve , as far as possible peripheral to the point where the motor nerve left it for tenuissimus .
All the exposed surface was then covered , but tenuissimus itself was left free and uncovered .
The reflex stimulus\#151 ; faradic shocks , 30 per second\#151 ; was applied for one second every minute .
The mechanical responses were recorded upon the slow drum , but sometimes every 10th response was recorded on a faster drum .
The intensity of stimulation was varied by changing the angle between primary and secondary coils degree by degree ; sometimes also by sliding up the secondary millimetre by millimetre .
In some cases the strength of stimulation was increased from a minimum , sometimes it was decreased from a maximum .
Between stimuli the muscle was carefully covered up .
V. Results .
The observations here described rarely lasted for less than an hour\#151 ; during which time a reflex contraction was recorded every minute .
In these circumstances it was found that a certain deterioration of the preparation occurred\#151 ; so that a direct muscular contraction was smaller at the end of the series than was one taken with the same strength of stimulation at the commencement of the series .
If a series of reflex contractions commenced with strong stimuli , and was continued with ever weaker stimuli , it is probable that a grading due to muscular " fatigue " might add itself to the true reflex grading .
There might appear a larger number of " steps " than were actually conditioned by a grading in the efferent nerve .
In these experiments , therefore , the reflex stimuli were varied in the reverse order\#151 ; that is , starting with subminimal stimuli , and gradually increasing the strength .
Before and after each series a direct muscle contraction was registered , and , as in every case the contraction was smaller after the series , the number of different degrees of reflex muscular contraction registered was possibly less than the actual number .
That this was so was also shown by the fact that , at the commencement of each experiment , there was a greater range of reflex contractions in a " quick " series ( that is , one in which the graded stimuli were of widely differing intensity ) than in the subsequent " slow " ascending series of reflex VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; B L 138 Mr. Graham Brown .
contractions , from which the estimation of the number of grades of contraction was made .
At the end of each experiment a maximal reflex contraction was registered .
The remaining motor twig to tenuissimus was then divided , and the same reflex stimulus was again applied .
If there was no muscular response it was assumed that that twig contained all the remaining motor fibres , and these were counted after staining with osmic acid .
The number of different heights of reflex contraction was then counted and compared with the number of nerve fibres .
Differences in height of under 05 mm. were neglected , and the heights were measured from the level of contraction which obtained at the commencement of each reflex contraction .
The following table gives details of six experiments:\#151 ; No. Fibres .
Grades .
Kind of series .
1 31-33 27 Ascending series .
2 24-27 47 Descending series .
3 42 40 Ascending series .
54 Descending series .
4 30 27 Ascending series .
5 48 28 ( + 21 ?
) Ascending series ( broken ) .
6 28 31 Ascending series .
In Experiment 5 the series was taken in groups .
Thus first a group of 10 closely graded stimuli was registered .
The stimulus was then increased 10 times more than the increase between each pair of elements of this group , and a second closely graded group wTas registered .
Again the stimulus was more greatly increased , and a third closely graded group was registered\#151 ; and so on .
As in each group there were about seven different grades amongst the 10 contractions , and as there were three " gaps " it is reasonable to suppose that about 21 grades should be added .
The difference in height between the end contraction of a group and the commencing contraction of the next group was nearly the same ( being sometimes greater ) than that between the initial and terminal contractions of a group .
It will be observed that there are more grades in a descending series than in an ascending one .
If the least favourable kind of series\#151 ; that is , the ascending\#151 ; be taken , it is found that the number of grades of reflex contraction corresponds fairly closely with the number of nerve fibres in the efferent nerve .
It is sometimes a few more and sometimes a few less .
If this be the case , then there are more grades of reflex contraction than there are efferent nerve fibres .
For , in the first place , the presence of deterioration of the motor response Fractional Activity in Mammalian Reflex Phenomena .
139 probably means that there should have been more grades than were actually recorded .
And secondly , not all the fibres in the efferent nerve are efferent nerve fibres .
A certain proportion of them are afferent nerve fibres from the sensory end-organs in the muscle .
If tenuissimus conforms to the ordinary rule , about two-thirds to one-half only of the fibres in the motor nerve are efferent\#151 ; for that is the proportion which Sherrington* found for the monkey and cat .
YI .
Conclusions .
The experiments here described seem to show that the number of different mechanical responses with which a specific individual muscle ( a flexor ) answers certain reflex stimuli ( ipsilateral flexion-producing ) of different intensities may be greater than the number of efferent fibres in the motor nerve .
The differences in mechanical response are here measured by estimating the extent of the greatest shortening of the muscle during a reflex tetanus which lasts 1 sec. On the assumption that each difference in shortening of a greater extent than 05 mm. in the tracing as magnified by the lever is a measure of a different degree of reflex activity , it would seem that the activity evoked refiexly in the efferent nerve fibres here investigated has not an " all or none " character ; and that the discharge of any efferent neurone may be graded in resonance with graded afferent stimuli .
But it must be admitted that the mechanical response is a coarse indicator \#151 ; even under the conditions here used .
And it must further be admitted that even if there is a larger number of mechanical responses than is the number of efferent nerve fibres this does not of necesssity exclude the possibility of an " all or none " character in reflex efferent discharges .
It is possible , for instance , to look upon the efferent part of a system as composed of three longitudinal parts\#151 ; A , B , and C\#151 ; each of which consists of efferent neurone and subservient muscle fibres .
Three graded afferent stimuli might discharge : the first , A ; the second , A 4- B ; the third , A + B + C. In such an arrangement it would be expected that there would be three distinct and separable grades of mechanical response .
But it is also possible that a series of graded afferent stimuli might discharge : the first , A ; the second , A + B ; the third , A + 0 ( but not B ) ; the fourth , B -f C ( but not A ) ; the fifth , A + B -f C. In such a case there would , therefore , be five possible mechanical responses if the muscular elements were of different efficiencies .
This is certainly a possibility , but it must appeal to us at present as being too artificial a possibility .
* ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1894 , vol. 17 , p. 211 .
L 2 Mr. Graham Brown .
It seems best at present , in view of the difficulties met with in assuming an " all or none " activity , at any rate , in certain species of reflex arcs , to hold that the efferent neurones may discharge each with graded intensities .
If that be the case then it must appear that there is an essential difference between the activity of efferent nerves aroused by artificial peripheral stimuli and those evoked reflexly through the centres .
The question must arise whether this grading is one in which the amplitude of the discharge of each neurone may be varied , or whether the grading is produced by different speeds of repetition of discharges , the amplitudes of which are not varied .
In the latter case an explanation is offered only if the mechanical response varies with variation in the speed of repetition of nerve impulses .
That this is indeed the case Mines* has recently given some evidence to show .
He points out that the ordinary explanations of the greater tension produced during tetanus than in single muscular twitches do not meet the case .
He notes , for instance , that the fact that the tension set up in amphibian muscle in response to more rapid stimuli is greater than that set up in response to less rapid stimuli ( which yet are sufficiently rapid just for give complete fusion ) is not explained on the von Frey hypothesis .
One more point .
The aspect of the problem which here particularly interests us is the question of an " all or none " response of the efferent neurone to graded reflex stimuli .
Even in the case of peripheral stimulation there is little or no evidence of an " all or none " character of the response to graded stimuli of the efferent nerve fibre considered as a unit .
As Adrianf himself points out , his experiments seem to show that certain longitudinal units of conduction are characterised in their activity by an " all or none " response to graded stimuli , but there is nothing to show that these units are the nerve fibres .
If they are units of a smaller size than the nerve fibres the efferent neurone may still respond in a graded manner to graded stimuli , although the activity of the elements of the discharge may be distinguished by this " all or none " character .
If this be the case the discharge of the efferent neurone might be graded in " steps " from zero to its maximum .
That either the reflex discharge of the efferent neurone has not the character of an " all or none " response to graded stimuli , or that the longitudinal units , the activities of which possess the character of an " all or none " response to graded stimuli , are smaller than the nerve fibre seems to bo shown by the experiments here described for one specific reflex type .
* ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1913 , vol. 46 , p. 1 .
t 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 45 , p. 389 .
Fractional Activity in Mammalian Reflex Phenomena .
141 VII .
Sum The mechanical response of tenuissimus\#151 ; a flexor in the hind limb of the cat\#151 ; to graded reflex stimuli ( tetani , lasting one second ) seems under certain conditions to exhibit grades of difference greater in number than the number of efferent fibres in the motor nerve which supplies it .
On the assumption that the differences here observed denote differences in the activity of reflex discharges , this seems to show that the discharge of the efferent neurone in a specific type of reflex activity has not the character of an " all or none " response to graded stimuli .
This does not , of course , exclude the possibility that within the neurone there are units , the activities of which have this character .
Experiment 24.10.12 ( No. 5 in table ) .
Decerebrate cat ; a record of the mechanical responses of right tenuissimus obtained in response to graded reflex stimulation of the right great sciatic nerve .
Cat decerebrated 10.45 a.m. The series was started at 11.27 a.m. The reactions are obtained in response to tetani lasting 1 sec. ( rate of stimuli 30 per second ) , and they are taken every minute .
The electrical stimuli are graded at first\#151 ; with the primary and secondary induction coils 150 mm. apart\#151 ; by rotating the secondary coil and thus diminishing the angle between its axis and that of the primary by 1 ' for each reaction .
Later in the series the electrical stimuli are graded by pushing the secondary coil 1 mm. nearer the primary for every reaction ( the axes of the coils then are parallel ) .
The series is broken into groups of 10 , and between the groups the electrical stimulus was graded tenfold the grading between the elements of the group by 10 ' or 10 mm. Between the five final reactions the grading is also of this order .
Beneath each tenth reaction the value of the evoking stimulus ( either in degrees divergence of the secondary axis at 150 mm. distance between coils , or in millimetres distance of coils with axes in line ) is recorded .
In the first group there are at least eight different mechanical grades .
In the second group there are at least seven different mechanical grades .
In the third group there are at least seven different mechanical grades .
In the fourth group there are at least five different mechanical grades .
For the fifth group at least two more grades may be added .
This gives a total of at least 29 mechanical grades .
It can hardly be doubted that about the same proportion of grades would have been present in the first three intervals .
On the assumption that in each of these there were seven distinct grades the total number of grades for the series would be about 50 .
" Quick " series registered before and after this record showed deterioration .
This 142 Mr. Graham Brown .
deterioration probably hinders the number of evident grades of contraction in such series .
Tig .
1 .
Fractional Activity in Mammalian Reflex Phenomena .
143 At the end of this experiment the remaining nerve twig of tenuissimus was divided .
Thereafter all reflex contraction was abolished and there were 48 fibres in the twig .
Of these probably not more than 32 were motor .
In this experiment , therefore , a number of motor fibres which probably did not exceed 32 conditioned reflexly a mimber of different mechanical grades of contraction which probably did not fall short of 50 .
144 Fractional Activity in Mammalian Reflex Phenomena .
Experiment , 28.10.12 ( No. 6 in table ) .
Low spinal cat , cord divided at 11 a.m. A record similar to that reproduced in fig. 1 , save that the series is complete .
Series commenced at 12 o'clock , midday .
For the purposes of the experiment the following reactions may be considered to be of different grades : ( marked by degrees ) 1 ' , 0 ' ; ( marked by millimetres ) 149 , 148 , 145 , 147 , 141 , 144 , 143 , 142 , 140 , 139 , 138 , 137 , 135 , 136 , 134 , 133 , 132 , 129 , 130 , 128 , 127 , 126 , 123 , 121 , 117 , 120 , 118 , 116 , 10o ' , 90 = circa 32 grades .
Before this series was taken a " quick " series showed greater grading_ between a minimum of 30 ' at 150 mm. and 90 mm. ( coils in line ) .
But in the figure the grading is over a range of about 150 to 90 mm. only .
After the series here reproduced was taken the remaining intact branch of the motor nerve was ligatured .
Thereafter no reflex contraction was evoked on stimulation with the strongest stimuli here used .
It wras later found that there were about 28 fibres in that branch of the nerve .
Of these probably about nine were afferent fibres .
Here , therefore , a number of grades which is probably about 30 was conditioned by the reflex activity of about 20 efferent nerve fibres .

