474 Dr. C. G. Barkla .
[ Jan. 21 , " Polarised Rontgen Radiation .
" By Charles G. Barkla , D.Sc .
, B.A. , King 's College , Cambridge , Oliver Lodge Fellow , University of Liverpool .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received January 21 , \#151 ; Read February 16 , 1905 .
( Abstract .
) Experiments on secondary radiation from gases and light solids subject to X-rays showed that the character of this radiation differs only very slightly from that of the radiation producing it , and that the energy of this radiation is proportional merely to the quantity of matter through which a beam of Rontgen radiation of definite intensity passes , being independent of the kind of matter .
These results , and the agreement between the energy experimentally determined and that calculated , led to the conclusion that this radiation is due to what may be called a scattering of primary X-rays by the corpuscles or electrons constituting the molecules of the substance .
On the hypothesis that Rontgen rays consist of a succession of electro-magnetic pulses in the ether , each electron in the medium through which these pulses pass has its motion accelerated by the intense electric fields in these pulses , and consequently is the origin of a secondary radiation , which is most intense in the direction perpendicular to that of acceleration of the electron , and vanishes in the direction of that acceleration .
The direction of electric intensity at a point in a secondary pulse is perpendicular to the line joining this point and the origin of the pulse , and is in the plane passing through the direction of acceleration of the electron .
On this theory , a secondary beam whose direction of propagation is perpendicular to that of the primary , will be plane polarised , the direction of electric intensity being parallel to the pulse front in the primary beam .
If the primary beam be plane polarised , the secondary radiation from the charged corpuscles or electrons has a maximum intensity in a direction perpendicular to that of electric displacement in the primary beam , and zero intensity in the direction of electric displacement .
The secondary radiation from light substances was too feeble to allow accurate measurement of the intensity of the tertiary radiation .
A consideration of the.method of production of primary Rontgen rays in an X-ray tube , however , leads one to expect partial polarisation of the primary beam proceeding from the antikathode in a direction perpendicular to that of propagation of the impinging kathode rays , for there is probably at the antikathode a greater acceleration along the line of propagation of the kathode rays than in a direction at right 1905 .
] Polarised Rontgen .
475 angles ; consequently in a beam of X-rays proceeding in a direction perpendicular to that of the kathode stream there should be greater electric intensity parallel to the stream than in a direction at right angles .
Such a beam was therefore used as the primary radiation , and the intensity of secondary radiation proceeding in a direction perpendicular to that of propagation of the primary beam from a radiator placed in that beam , was studied by means of electroscopes .
In the final form of apparatus the intensity of secondary radiation was measured in two directions perpendicular to that of propagation of the primary radiation and to each other , while the intensity of the primary beam was measured by a third electroscope .
Using paper , aluminium , or air as the radiator , as the bulb was turned round the axis of the primary beam studied , the intensity of a secondary beam was found to reach a maximum when the direction of the kathode stream was perpendicular to that of propagation of the secondary beam , and a minimum when these two were parallel , one electroscope recording a maximum rate of deflexion when the other recorded a minimum .
Many experiments were made which proved the evidence of partial polarisation conclusive .
When heavier metals , such as copper , tin , and lead , which emit a secondary radiation differing considerably in character from the primary producing it , were used *as radiators , no variation in intensity of secondary radiation was observed as the bulb was rotated .
This result was not found to be affected by a considerable variation in the penetrating power of the primary radiation .
Experiments were made with several X-ray tubes .

