1878 .
] Rudimentary Head-Kidney in the Embryo Chick .
443 vajue__that is to say , the magnetization of the nickel and cobalt was diminished by pull .
But this effect came to a maximum , and began to diminish markedly as if towards zero , when the magnetizing force was diminished .
Hitherto the critical value , if there is one , has not been reached ; but the experiments are being continued to find it , if it is to be found , with attainable degrees of magnetizing force .
( Addition , May 23 , 1878 .
) It had been reached , for nickel , in Glasgow , about the day on which this abstract was written ; advantage having been taken of a kind loan , by Professor Tait , of a much smaller bar of nickel than those which had been specially made for the investigation , and which alone had been previously available .
Mr. Thomas Gray , by whom the experiments were made , in the Physical Laboratory of the University of Glasgow , in the author 's absence , found the critical value of the magnetizing force for Professor Tait 's thin nickel bar to be about 600 times the Glasgow vertical force .
[ The author is indebted to the celebrated metallurgical chemist , Mr. Joseph Wharton , of Philadelphia , for a splendid and unique set of bars , globes , and disks , of pure nickel and cobalt , which he kindly made , at his request , for this and other proposed investigations of electro-dynamic qualities of those metals .
] X. " On the Existence of a Rudimentary Head-Kidney in the Embryo Chick .
" By F. M. BALFOUR , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , and Adam Sedgwick , B.A. , Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , F.R.S. , Prselector of Physiology in Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received May 20 , 1878 .
We have been for some time engaged in an investigation on the mode of growth of the developing Mullerian duct in the chick , and its possible derivation from the W olffian duct ; and , while carrying on our investigations on this point , were struck by some remarkable features of the abdominal opening of the Mullerian duct in its very early condition .
We did not for some time pay much attention to these features , but finally devoted ourselves to their interpretation , and have been led to the conclusion that they form the rudiment of a head-kidney , " Vomiere " or " Kopfniere , " identical with that present in Amphibia , Marsipobranchii , and Teleostei .
We purpose first to give a short account of our observations , , and then to proceed to state the grounds on which we have been led to compare the structures we have found with the head-kidney of the Ichthyopsida 2 a 2 444 F. M. Balfour and A. Sedgwick on Existence [ May 23 , The first trace* of the Mullerian duct we have met with is a very-shallow groove in the germinal epithelium some little way behind the front end of the Wolffian body , and nearly overlying , though slightly external to , the Wolffian duct .
This stage corresponds with the earliest stage described by Dr. Gasser.f In the next stage , which follows very closely upon the first one , remarkable changes have taken place in the groove , which can best be explained by describing the appearance of a series of successive sections from before backwards through the groove and its continuation .
Anteriorly there appears in section a simple groove , which , after a short distance , is suddenly replaced by an apparently solid thickening of the germinal epithelium .
An open groove again appears in this , which in its turn is succeeded by a thickening , which is next converted into a definite ridge , projecting inwards towards the Wnlfflan duct , in which , we believe , we have observed a rudimentary lumen .
After one or two sections , a slit-like opening appears , placing the lumen in the ridge in communication with the body cavity , and , in fact , a groove somewhat deeper but otherwise exactly similar to that visible in the anterior sections has reappeared .
This groove after being continued for two or three sections again becomes closed , and its walls are prolonged as a nearly solid rod which cannot be traced beyond one or two sections .
In general terms , the change which has taken place is , that the opening of the primitive simple groove has been divided into three , and the three separate grooves are connected by a rod-like structure developed from part of the wall of the original groove , in which a lumen either exists from the first , or very soon appears .
In the next stage , the anterior part of the Mullerian duct is formed of a tube communicating by , at the least , three separate apertures with the body cavity , and the tube connecting these is perhaps slightly convoluted .
The hindermost opening of the duct is continuous with a rod-like body which may be traced backwards for some little distance .
It is hollow in front , and terminates by a solid point , in a manner which we propose describing in detail in a fuller paper , with illustrations .
This peculiar condition of the abdominal opening of the Mullerian duct does not last for long , and before the Mullerian duct has nearly grown back to the cloaca , it opens in front by a single elongated groove .
At this period , its hind end , or growing point , instead of being conical , is rounded , and the lumen of the duct is continued into the rounded extremity .
So far as we know , none of the very divergent accounts which have * We do not give the number of hours of incubation , as we find these are too inconstant to be of any scientific value .
t " Entwicklungsgescliichte d. Allantois d. Muller*schen Gfinge u. d. Afters .
" Frankfurt , 1874 .
1878 .
] of a Rudimentary Head-Kulney in the Embryo Chick .
445 been given of the development of the Mullerian duct in the least resemble what we have described , though the well known and often repeated figure of Waldeyer* * * S ( copied in the " Elements of Embryology , " fig. 51 ) very possibly represents a section of the anterior extremity of the duct in an interval between two openings .
In the above description we have given the more important results of our investigation , and it only remains for us to prove that the peculiarly .modified anterior extremity of the Mullerian duct is in reality a rudimentary head-kidney .
For this purpose it is necessary for us to show , first , that it is in the situation where we might expect to find a head-kidney ; and secondly , that it resembles a head-kidney in structure .
It will be convenient to reverse the logical order , and to attempt to prove , in the first instance , the second of these points .
We will use as our type the head-kidney in the Amphibia .
The head-kidney of Amphibian larvas was discovered by Johannes Muller , t and is often spoken of as the Mullerian body .
Its development has , in recent times , been worked out in a satisfactory manner by W. Muller , J Grotte , S Spengel , ||and Furbringer.^[ It developes from the anterior extremity of what becomes afterwards its duct .
This duct is called by Fiirbringer the duct of the head-kidney , and by one of us** the segmental duct .
This duct , for which we shall retain the name segmental duct , developes as a groove-like invagination of the epithelium of the body cavity , which soon becomes constricted into a duct , blind behind , but ending in front by a groove in free communication with the body cavity .
The open groove at first deepens , still remaining in communication with the body cavity .
It next elongates , and by process of unequal constriction becomes converted into a horizontal , retaining its communication with the body cavity by a number of , varying according to the species from two to four .
The part of the duct following on the horizontal canal next assumes an S-shaped curvature , continuous , however , with the segmental duct behind , which somewhat later acquires an opening into the cloaca .
We need not follow the further development and final atrophy of the head* " Eierstock u. Ei .
" Leipzig , 1870 .
+ " Ueber die Wolff'schen K6rper bei d. Embryonen d. Frosche u. Kroteu .
" | " Meek els Archiv , " 1829 .
+ " XJeber d. Urogenital System der Amphioxus u. d. Cyclostomen .
" " Jenaische Zeitschrift , " Bd .
ix .
S " Entwicklungsgeschichte d. Unke .
" II " Urogenitalsystem d. Ampbibien .
Arbeiten a. d. Zool-zoot .
Institut zu Wurzburg , " Bd .
iy .
" Zur .
Entwicklung der Amphibienniere .
' ' Heidelberg , 1877 .
" Zur verg .
Anat.u .
Entwick .
d. Excretionsorgane d. Vertebraten .
" " Morpbologiscbe Jahrbuch , " Bd .
vi .
*# Balfour , " Origin and History of Urinogenital Organs of Vertebrates .
" I " Journal of Anat .
and Phys. , " yd .
x , and " Monograph on Elasmobranch Fishes .
" 446 Mr. Sedley Taylor .
Note .
[ May 23 , kidney in Amphibia , and consider it only necessary to call attention to the similarity , amounting almost to identity , between our account of the metamorphosis of the anterior part of the Mullerian duct in the bird and the italicised part of our description ( taken from Fiirbringer ) of the changes in the open extremity of the segmental duct in the Amphibia , which results in the formation of the head-kidney .
In this connexion , there is only one point we desire to call attention to , and that is the presence in Amphibia of a peculiar body , usually spoken of as the glomerulus of the head-kidney , which is developed at about the same time as the head-kidney .
We believe , though we have not fully satisfied ourselves on the point , that we have found an homologous body in the chick .
In reference to the identity in the position between our head-kidney in the bird and that in Amphibia , we have only to say that one of us* has already , on other grounds , attempted to show that the abdominal opening of the Mullerian duct in the bird is the homologue of the abdominal opening of the segmental duct in Amphibia , Elasmobrauchii , \amp ; c. , and that we believe that this homology will be admitted by most anatomists .
Should the interpretation we have given of the peculiarities of the abdominal opening of the Mullerian duct in birds be accepted , a further proof of this homology will be afforded .
We may say , in conclusion , that we trust soon to be in a position to publish a fuller account of our observations , with illustrations .
XI .
" Observations on Arctic Sea-water and Ice .
" By Surgeon-Major E. L. Moss , M.D. Communicated by Captain Sir George Nares , R.N. , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 3 , 1878 .
[ Publication deferred .
] " Note to Mr. Sedley Taylor 's ' Experiments on the Colours shown by thin liquid Films under the Action of Sonorous Vibrations .
' " ( " Proceedings , " vol. xxvii , 1878 , pp. 71 , seq. ) Communicated by J. W. L. Glaisher , F.R.S. Received May 20 , 1878 .
The failure to obtain steady resultant-forms for two component sounds , mentioned at p. 74 , proved , on further inquiry , to be due to the imperfect mode of experimenting there described .
I stated this fact in a note , written upon the final revise of my paper ; but , by some inadvertence for which I am not responsible , the paper appeared without it .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day and the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , June 20 .
# Balfour , loc. cit.

