384 On the Action of Ammonia and its Salts , fyc .
[ June IB under maximal , whilst a disturbance of the relationship of auricular and ventricular contractions may be induced .
( c. ) The area of the heart to which stimulation is applied.\#151 ; A refrae tory period demonstrable under stimulation of the ventricle may cease to occur when the sinus venosus is the seat of irritation .
( d. ) The action of heat , cold , and Thus cold prolongs the systole , the refractory period , and the latency of an induced contraction ; whilst strychnia , leaving the curve of systole unaltered , lengthens the refractory period to a marked degree .
VII .
" On the Action of Ammonia and its Salts , and of Hydrocyanic Acid upon Muscle and Nerve .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Theodore Cash , M.D. Received May 26 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) Ammonia.\#151 ; The curve caused by stimulating either muscle or nerve is prolonged .
Fatigue increases this prolongation much more rapidly than it would do in the case of a healthy muscle .
The viscosity , or residual contraction , remaining after active contraction is much more increased in the case of direct ( muscle ) than of indirect ( nerve ) stimulation .
Chloride of Ammonium.\#151 ; A powerful , though slightly lengthened , contraction occurs on direct stimulation .
The muscle , as stimulated from the nerve , yields a few ( if any ) lengthened and feeble contractions , and then ceases to respond altogether to stimulation .
Nitrate of Ammonium.\#151 ; The nerve , in this case , is not more affected by the poison than the muscle .
If the poisoning be very complete , neither direct nor indirect stimulation has any effect ; if it is not so , the curve is observed to be prolonged .
In the case of both , but especially in that of the directly stimulated muscle , the contraction remaining after stimulation is very extensive .
Nitrite of Ammonium.\#151 ; If poisoning be complete , no reaction occurs either on direct or indirect stimulation ; if not , the curves of both are much prolonged , even more so than in the case of the nitrate .
The rapid repetition of stimulation causes the curve to become enormously prolonged , whilst the viscosity after the active contraction is much increased .
Cyanide of Ammonium .
\#151 ; Stimulation of the nerve produces no effect whatever ; whilst that of the muscle causes a considerable though prolonged curve .
Viscosity is much increased .
The curve of hydrocyanic acid alone , yielded by both direct and indirect stimulation , is prolonged , but it neither shows the length nor the viscosity of the jggj j On Stratified Discharges .
385 cyanide muscle curve ; whilst its nervous contraction is still powerful in contrast to the utter loss of excitability in the latter .
The latency varies in the case of the different salts of ammonia .
Thus , in stimulating the nerve , it is much lengthened in the chloride , and still more so in the cyanide\#151 ; if the muscle be examined soon enough to yield response to nerve stimulation\#151 ; it is increased slightly by ammonia , and by its nitrate and nitrite .
In direct stimulation , the latency appears to be increased in the cyanide nitrate and nitrite , unaltered in the chloride and hydrocyanic acid , and unaltered or slightly decreased in the early stages of poisoning by ammonia .
VIII .
" On Stratified Discharges .
VI .
Shadows of Striae .
" By William Spottiswoode , President R.S. , and J. Fletcher Moulton , F.R.S. Received May 27 , 1881 .
One of the most interesting questions connected with the subject of stratified discharges is this : What is the physical , as distinguished from the electrical , nature of the striae themselves ?
Are they , m fact , to be regarded as aggregations of matter possessing greater density than the gas present in the dark spaces , or are they to be considered as indicating merely special local electrical conditions ?
The fact of their having a definite configuration , especially on the side which is turned towards the negative terminal of the tube , that of their temperature being higher than that of the dark spaces , the manner in which they are affected by solid bodies , and other considerations , all tend to give support to the view that the stri\#174 ; are loci of greater density than the dark spaces .
Still it can hardly be said that as yet any experimental proof of this has been given , sufficiently decisive to decide the question conclusively .
And it is in the hope of contributing something towards the solution of this question that the following experiments are submitted to the notice of the Royal Society .
In the former papers of this series ( ** Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vols .
23 , 27 ) , and in our memoirs " On the Sensitive State of Vacuum Discharges ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1879 , p. 155 , and 1880 , p. 561 ) , we have described experiments which show how a discharge through a tube , whether sensitive or non-sensitive , may be affected in various ways by intermittent discharges ab extra .
In the experiments now to be described the problem has been reversed , and- it has been proposed to ascertain how far such an external discharge can itself be affected by the internal one .
The discharge ab ext , however , presents such feeble luminosity , that it is not possible to come to any certain conclusions on this head by direct methods .
But , as has been before pointed out , .

