On the Anatomy and Physiology of the Vascular Fringes in Joints , and the Sheaths of Tendons .
" By George Rainey , Esq. , M.R.C.S. Communicated by John Simon , Esq. , F.R.S. , AssistantSurgeon to the King 's College Hospital , and Demonstrator of Anatomly in King 's College , London .
It has been generally believed that the folds of synovial membrane which project into the articular cavities in the form of fringes , contain merely globules of fat , and are subservient only to the mechanical offices of filling up spaces that would otherwise be left vacant during the movements of the joints .
By a careful examination of their real structure with the aid of the microscope , the author has found that they present an arrangement of vessels quite peculiar to themselves , and bearing no resemblance whatever to that of the vessels which secrete fat ; together with an epithelium , remarkable by its form and disposition , and characteristic of organs endowed with the function of a special secretion .
He has traced the presence of these synovial fringes in all cavities which contain synovia ; that is to say , not only in the joints , but also in the sheaths of tendons , and in the burse mucosae .
When well-injected , they are seen , under the microscope , to consist of two parts ; namely , a convolution of blood-vessels , and an investing epitheliurn .
These convoluted vessels do not enclose , by their anastomoses , spaces like those capillaries which secrete fat , and which are of a much smaller size than the former ; and the epithelial investments , besides enclosing separately each packet of convoluted vessels , sends off from each tubular sheath secondary processes of various shapes , into which no blood-vessels enter .
The lamina itself , forming these folds and processes , consists of a very thin membrane studded with flattish oval cells , a little larger than blood-corpuscles , but destitute of nucleus or nucleoli ; presenting none of the characters of tessellated epithelium , but corresponding more to what Mr. Goodsir has termed germinal membrane .
From all these facts the author concludes that the prdper office of this structure is to secrete synovia ; an office which Clopton Havers had assigned to them as long ago as the year 1691 , although his opinion has not been generally adopted by later physiologists .
,

