XVIII .
An Account of a Calculus from the Human Bladder of uncommon Magnitude .
By Sir James Earl , F. R. 8 .
Read June 15 , 1809 .
SIR WALTER OGILVIE , Bart. of Dundee , an officer in the regiment of Scotch Greys , at the age of twenty-three , active and healthy , was crossing the ferry at Leith , when he received a blow on his back , from the boom of the vessel , which paralized the pelvis and lower extremities .
During two months he was obliged to have his water drawn off ; for fourteen months he remained in bed , or in a horizontal posture , and though he then recovered the use of the bladder , and of his limbs , sufficiently to walk across the room with the help of crutches , and also to ride , when placed on an easy low horse , his health continued many years in a weak and precarious state , while the limbs acquired little additional strength or powers .
About twenty years after the accident , perceiving symptoms of stone in the bladder , he was examined by Mr. BENJAMIN BELL at Edinburgh , and a stone was felt , which was judged to have attained a considerable size ; the operation of extraction was then recommended , but was postponed from time to time , though his health declined , and the irritation and pains in the bladder gradually increased .
Sir WALTER continued to endure this state of existence twenty-eight years from the time of the accident , when he Rr r became unable to make water in an erect position ; this inconvenience increased to such a degree , that latterly he could make none without standing almost on his head , so as to cause the upper part of the bladder to become the lower , and this he was obliged to do frequently , sometimes every ten minutes , as the quantity at each time was less than the measure of a wine glass ; and when he used exercise , it was tinged with blood .
The principal remedies which had been prescribed for him were aqua calcis and uva ursi ; but he never persisted long in the use of either .
At times , when the paiin was violent , he had recourse to opium by the mouth and per anum : this , added to a naturally costive habit of body , rendered necessary the frequent assistance of aperients , At the age of fifty-three , thirty years after the accident , the spasms and fits of pain , from the urgent desire to void urine , became so frequent and violent , and his life so completely miserable , that he was determined to have the stone extracted .
I received a letter , requesting my opinion whether a paralytic state of the lower lim.bs was a prohibition to the operation of lithotomy ; on my reply to the contrary , he was put on board a ship and conveyed to the Thames , brought in a boat to Hungerford Stairs , and in an easy carriage to Hanover-street , without suffering any inconvenience of material consequence .
Toward the latter end of July , 188 , I visited him , when he gave me a clear and distinct account of what has been related , and added , that the stone could be evidently felt above the os pubis .
At first , I much doubted of the large prominent tumor which I saw in the lower part of the belly , being a stone , but on attempting to pass the sound , it would not enter the bladder , being stopped by a solid mass ; and on further examination , I was thoroughly convinced that there was a stone of sufficient size to fill the bladder .
lie said he came to England with a determination to have it extracted , if it were possible , and desired my opinion as to its practicability .
On such an extraordinary and important case I declined an immediate answer , but requested a consultation ; and Mr. CLINE was appointed to meet me .
After mature consideration of every circumstance , we were of opinion that the possibility of extraction must depend on the consistence of the stone ; if it proved soft , as is well known to be frequently the case , it might be taken away ; but if too hard to be broken , it would be too large to be extracted whole , and must be left .
The operation of extracting it above the os pubis was thoroughly considered , and concluded to be uncertain and dangerous , because the bladder , thickened and exquisitely irritable , could not bear to be further distended with fluid , and the stone , although so large , had not raised it sufficiently high to obviate the danger of wounding the peritoneum , and penetrating into the cavity of the abdomen : the usual lateral operation was therefore judged to be the only safe and probable means to be attempted .
After some days consideration , Sir WALTER , thoroughly and perfectly aware of the difficulties which might reasonably be apprehended in the extraction , from the magnitude , and also from the uncertainty of the structure and consistence of the stone , determined to submit to the operation , and Mr. CLINE was requested to perform it .
On Thursday , August lth , he was placed in the usual S05s situation , and the proper ligatures were applied ; but it was soon found that the lower limbs were so incapable of action or resistance , that they were left unconfined .
The staff could be passed in no farther than the neck of the bladder ; the division of the urethra and prostate gland was made with the scalpel and probe-pointed bistouri : when this was accomplished , it was found impossible to introduce any kind of forceps ; but on pressing hard with the finger , part of the stone felt soft , gave way , and made some room for the forceps , which brought away several portions , and with the assistance of a scoop , as much stone was extracted as would have filled a large tea-cup ; but the great mass , beyond what the finger could reach on either side , still remained hard and impenetrable , and after repeated trials with forceps of different kinds , and of the strongest powers , it was found impossible farther to reduce the size of it , or take it away .
The patient bore the several attempts , and the necessarily protracted operation , with great firmness ; probably , from the paralized state of the parts , the natural acuteness of sensation was blunted ; however , as from weakness and fatigue he was becoming much exhausted , and the complete extraction appeared clearly out of our power , it was judged right to relinquish any further endeavours .
No hamorrhage ensued , he became calm and composed , and passed a tolerably good night ; the next day he complained only of the same kind of spasms , and frequent pressing desire to void urine that he had been accustomed to feel , and not in any very great degree more acute .
As some proof of this , he was frequently inquiring when I thought the wound would be in a state to admit of the extraction of the remainder .
$o6 The second night passed nearly the same , without tension of the belly , the urine flowing through the wound , and some by the penis ; the third day he complained much of the tenderness of the abdomen , which was tense and painful , and peritonitis seemed rapidly to be taking place , which , however , was lessened and quieted by bleeding and fomentations , and he again became : no easy : this state continued for several days , but he complained much of the frequent returns of his former spasmts , after each of which a small quantity of urine was evacuated .
He was nourished with broths , jellies , &amp;c. but would take nothing solid , not even bread in any form ; after the fifth day , he ate a few oysters , some fish , or chicken , drank occasionally of porter , and his health and strength were improving ; but though these favourable symptoms continued , with the abdomen soft and easy , so as to bear examination by the hand , and all inflammatory action was subsided , yet the repeated spasms continually broke his rest , and kept him in a constant state of irritation , obliging him to violeln efforts in resisting them , and ; to get instantly on his knees , with his head low on the bed , to enable qim to expel the urine ; and one spasm frequently succeeding , before the former had , well subsided , kept his whole 'rame incoantinual agitation , to the greatest possible degree that nature cou ld bear .
All these sensations and occurrences were very similar to what he had experienced for several months before he left Scotland ; and it was then the opinion of Mr. STEWART , a medical gentlemann who accompanied Sir WALTER to England , that his complaints were increasing to such a degree , that it was scarcely possible for him to exist much longer .
in his present situation , of course , such shocks and disturbances of the whole animal economy acted with increased effect , in proportion as he became less capable of supporting them .
Toward the eighth day from the operation , he was visibly growing weaker , his pulse smaller and quicker , his little inclination for food became less , and he was with difficulty prevailed on to take any ; some cordial medicines , however , in some degree revived him ; but on the ninth day he grew more impatient , feverish , and restless , and on the twenty-first of August , ten days after the operation , he desired not to be teased to take any thing more ; when , covering himself completely with the bed-clothes , he quietly resigned a most singularly miserable existence .
Examination after Death .
On opening the abdomen , the bladder was found much diseased and thickened , firmly embracing a stone of extraordinary magnitude , and appearing to be completely filled with it .
On dividing the bladder from the os pubis backwards to the rectum , the stony mass was uncovered , which I attempted to take away with the largest forceps ; but it was impossible .
It was then raised by getting the hand under it , with considerable difficulty , as the cohesion between the bladder and the stone was very strong , though there did not appear to be any diseased or distinct adhesions .
When taken out , the form of the stone appeared to have been moulded by the bladder ; the lower part , having been confined by the bony pelvis , took the impression of that cavity , and was smaller than the upper part , which having been unrestricted in its growth , except by the soft parts , was larger , and projected so as to lie on the os pubis .
A large excavation Ihad been made in the lower part , which 8o8 lay on the neck of the bladder , by the operation .
The internal structure was thus exposed , in which appeared distinct stones or nuclei , now consolidated into one mass , disposed in layers .
The weight of the stone was forty-four ounces , or three pounds four ounces ( apothecary 's weight ) , the form of it elliptical , the periphery , on the longer axis , sixteen inches , on the shorter fourteen .
The kidneys were altered considerably in their texture , and their pelvis much enlarged , the left was pressed up higher than natural , and adhered firmly to the spleen .
The right was attached to the ascending colon , and general adhesion had obtained between all the surrounding parts .
The ureters were much increased in their dimensions and thickness , and were capable of containing a considerable quantity of fluid ; they were in fact supplemental bladders , the real bladder having become nothing more than a painful and difficult con-ductor of urine , which trickled down in furrows formed by it on the superior surface of the stone .
This clearly explained the cause which obliged the patient , when compelled to evacuate urine , to put himself in that posture which made the upper part of the bladder become the lower , by which means a relaxation or separation was allowed to take place between the bladder and the stone , so that the ureters had an opportunity of discharging their contents ; when the body was erect , their mouths , or valvular openings , must of course have been closed , by the pressure of the abdominal viscera on the bladder against the stone .
His difficulty of voiding urine , appears to have gradually increased as the bladder became more and more filled with the stony matter , and the extremity of his distress did not come on till the whole cavity was nearly choked up .
From the appearances on the examination , it is more than probable that the mouths of the ureters would have been soon completely closed , when a total , and consequently fatal suppression of urine must have taken place .
The disease probably origi'ated when the patient was obliged to continue such a length of time on his back , in which position the surface of the water only may be supposed to have been , as it were , decanted , and the bladder , seldom , if ever , completely emptied ; thus in a constitution , perhaps naturally inclined to form concretions , the earthy particles subsided , and by attraction soon began to lay the rudiments of a stone , which was not felt above the brim of the pelvis till many years after , but from that time the gradual increase of it was perceptible to the patient , and his medical friends : from this circumstance , as well as the shape of it , the stone evidently appears to have commenced within the pelvis , and in the lowest part of the bladder .
The texture of it appeared different from the generality of calculi , and to contain more animal matter .
In a short time it became highly putrid and offensive : after macerating a few hours in fresh water , the saline particles in its composition began to separate , large flakes separated from its surface , and I was convinced , that if the maceration had been continued , the whole of the outer part would have crumbled away ; it was therefore suffered to dry , and the putrid effluvia gradually went off .
As a proof that animal matter abounded , the calculus not having been protected from the flies , maggots were produced in it at the end of a fortnight , which were destroyed by washing it with spirits .
Dr. POWEL examined its chemical composition , and iforms me , that it decidedly consists of the triple phosphat of ammonia and magnesia , with phophat of lime , forming together the fusible calculus of Dr. WOLLASTON ( Phil. Trans. 179 7 ) mixed with a certain portion of animal matter , which was separated and floated under a membrane-like form , on the solution of the salts in diluted acids .
That this compositionis demonstrable by all the usual relations to alkalies and diluted acids , and the precipitates from solutions in the latter , by ammonia , and also by its fusion into enamel under the blow-pipe , and that the general external character of the calculus establishes the same fact by its semi-transparent appearance , and regular prismatic crystals of the triple salt , discoverable by a magnifier , between the more compact layers .
The nuclei were examined solely with the blow-pipe , from a wish not to disturb so fine a specimen beyond what had been done by the operation .
By this examination they were found less fusible than the general mass , and appeared to contain a larger proportion of phosphat of lime , for by admixture of a portion of triple phosphat of magnesia , taken from another part of the same calculus , they were rendered as fusible as the rest .
This calculus accords entirely with the description given by FoURcRoY ( Systeme de Connoisance Chemique ) , and confirms his farther observations on this species .
" Ce sont aussi les concretions urinaires les plus volumineuses de toutes ; else " ont depuis le grosseur d'une ceuf jusqu'a un voiume qui ( occupe tout la vessie , en la distendant me.me considerable6 meant .
" From this passage , it should seem that similar instances had occurred to Monsieur FOURCROY ; but from my Sss f3ii ( o -1I ' 0 , ) .
own observation , and from all the information I have been able to collect , no calculus from the human bladder , of such magnitude , has been hitherto exhibited , or described , in this country .
JAMES EARL .
Hanover Square , Dec. 26 , i80o .
The annexed Plates are representations of its size and figure .
Plate XVI .
shows the cavity which was made by the instruments .
It is preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in Londonm ?
b:42 1 ; 5 BBfs Fii:z a S , ?
: ?
, ; b i ; ii-=-2 , ?
E , =hc , :a " .
, " ` ?
i " , " " 3-- ; =:= .
j st s ; ?- ; -- ? ? ?
?U _5 ; ;=t-u : ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
?`.:= ; ` :'.'j .
r ric-r ; Cii --ji : : : ?
:I ?
i 5 : : ' ; 2 -- ; _______________________________________----------------------------------------------

