A paper was in part read , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" Fifteenth Series . ?
" Note of the Character and Direc ?
tion of the Electric Force of the Gymnotus .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. December 13 , 1838 .
The MARQUESS of NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
The reading of a paper , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" Fifteenth Series . ?
" Note of the Character and Direc ?
tion of the Electric Force of the Gymnotus .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp; c , was resumed and concluded .
The author first briefly refers to what has been done by others in establishing the identity of the peculiar power in the Gymnotus and Torpedo with ordinary electricity , and then in reference to the in ?
tended conveyance to this country of Gymnoti from abroad , gives the instructions which he himself had received from Baron Humboldt for that purpose .
A living Gymnotus , now in the possession of the Proprietors of the Gallery of Science in Adelaide Street , was placed for a time at the disposal of the author for the purpose of research , upon which he proceeded , with suitable apparatus , to compare its power with ordinary and voltaic electricity , and to obtain the direction of the force .
Without removing it from the water he was able to obtain not only the results procured by others , but the other electrical phenomena required so as to leave no gap or deficiency in the evi ?
dence of identity .
The shock , in very varied circumstances of posi ?
tion , was procured : the galvanometer affected ; magnets were made ; a wire was heated ; polar chemical decomposition was effected .
and the spark obtained .
By comparative experiments made with the animal and a powerful Leyden battery , it was concluded that the quantity of force in each shock of the former was very great .
It was also ascertained by all the tests capable of bearing on the point , that the current of electricity was , in every case , from the anterior parts of the animal through the water or surrounding conductors to the posterior parts .
The author then proceeds to express his hope that by means of these organs and the similar parts of the Torpedo , a relation as to action and re-action of the electric and nervous powers may be established experimentally ; and he briefly describes the form of experiment which seems likely to yield positive results of this kind .

