Observations on the Permanency of the Variation of the Compass at Jamaica .
In a Letter from Mr. James Robertson to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. &amp;c. Read June 12 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 348 .
] The object of Mr. Robertson , who resided in Jamaica , as a King 's Surveyor of Land , upwards of twenty years , is to show that , no alteration has , for a considerable period , taken place there in the variation of the compass .
In that island all grants of land have a diagram thereof annexed to the patent , which diagram is delineated from an actual survey of the land to be granted , and has a meridional line , according to the magnetical needle , laid down upon it ; but no notice is taken of the true meridian .
The boundary lines are marked upon the land ; and in all disputes where the keeping up of these lines has been neglected , surveyors are appointed to make actual resurveys , which are compared with those preserved in the secretary of the island 's office ; and it is expected that the lines and meridians of the former will coincide with those of the latter .
It is evident , however , that this coincidence could not happen if any alteration in the variation had taken place in the interval between the two surveys .
Mr. Robertson 's business , as a surveyor , having been very extensive , he has had many opportunities of investigating the fact here treated of ; and it appears from his observations , that the courses of the lines and meridians delineated on diagrams annexed to patents granted so long ago as the year 1660 , coincide with , and are parallel to , the lines and meridians delineated on the re-surveys annexed to deeds , &amp;c. , or on the new diagrams , from recent surveys made by means of the magnetical needle , consequently no variation of the needle could have taken place , in Jamaica , during the above period of time .
Our author subjoins to his paper a short history of the practice of surveying in Jamaica , from the Restoration to the present time , in order to obviate any doubt whether the quantity of the magnetical variation was not ascertained and allowed for in the first diagrams annexed to patents ; and whether the present variation of 6-2 degrees east , might not then have agreed with the true meridian .
He remarks , that until the year 1700 , when Dr. Halley published his theory of the variation of the compass , no observations to ascertain the quantity of the variation in the West Indies had ( so far as he knows ) been published ; and the variation at Jamaica , as laid down by Dr. Halley , appears to have been the same as it is at present .
Besides , had the first surveyors allowed for the variation , in delineating their diagrams , they would not have omitted to mention it ; and the same system of surveying would have been continued , since a difference of 6# ?
would have so totally deranged all boundaries , as to have demanded legislative interference and correction .
But no instance of this kind has occurred .
In the maps of the island made by the direction of Sir Henry Moore , Governor ( about the year 1760 ) , the magnetic meridian only is represented , although that gentleman was considered a great surveyor .
In short , the true meridian , our author says , has never been noticed , nor the quantity of variation ascertained , nor the latitude or longitude observed , by any surveyor or engineer in Jamaica except himself .
He has ascertained the variation to be 6 ?
0 east , and has assumed that as the true quantity , in the maps lately published by him .

