02 Observations on Air found in the Pleura , in a Case of Pneumatothorax ; with Experiments on the Absorption of different kinds of Air introduced into the Pleura .
By John Davy , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 6 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 496 .
] In this paper Dr. Davy gives a detailed account of the symptoms produced by the above disease , and of the appearance after death , in a man of thirty years of age .
He also adverts to the composition of the air found in the lungs , which was collected by immersing the body in water , and puncturing the pleura , when it issued in the enormous quantity of 225 cubic inches .
It was without smell , and extinguished flame , and was not inflammable .
It consisted of 8 carbonic acid , and 92 azotic gas per cent. ; and the author considers it as derived from the atmosphere by a morbid communication , which was discovered on dissection , between the pleura and atmosphere through the medium of the lung .
To determine the mode in which its change of composition had been effected , Dr. Davy inflated the right pleura of a dog with atmospheric air , and killed the animal after 48 hours .
On examining the air , the oxygen was found absorbed in larger proportion than the azote , which accounts for the accumulation of the latter gas in the preceding instance .
To ascertain how far carbonic acid is absorbed by the pleura , a mixture of 80 parts of common air , and 20 of carbonic acid , was injected into the right pleura of a dog .
After two days the animal appeared well , and a mixture of 75 of air and 25 of carbonic acid was thrown into the left pleura .
Twentyfour hours after , the dog was killed , and the result was , that during a sojourn of three days in the pleura the oxygen had been absorbed in greater proportion than the carbonic acid , and the latter in a greater degree than the azote .
The power thus exhibited by the pleura of absorbing one kind of gas more than another , without reference to their solubility in water , induced the author to institute some similar experiments with hydrogen , nitrous oxide , and nitrous gas .
A mixture of carbonic acid and hydrogen thus applied did not appear to affect the health of the animal .
A mixture of azote and nitrous gas killed the animal in five hours .
In the former case the hydrogen disappeared , and its place was supplied by a small quantity of azote .
As the author 's experiments induce him to believe that no air exists in the pleura in a healthy state , he is led to suppose that its appearance in this case is referrible to secretion .
In a note annexed to this paper , Dr. Davy expresses his doubt as to the existence of any free carbonic acid in the blood ; since he could , in two experiments made for the purpose , obtain none by means of the air-pump .

