PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
November 15 , 1888 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair/ In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
Mr. John Ball , Sir James Cockle , Dr. Huggins , Dr. Rae , and Mr. Symons were by ballot elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's accounts on the part of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Combustion in dried Oxygen .
" By H. Brereton Baker , M.A. , Dulwich College , late Scholar of Balliol College , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor H. B. Dixon , F.R.S. Received July 4 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In 1884 some preliminary experiments , published in the 'Journal of the Chemical Society , ' convinced me that moisture exerted an important influence on the combustion of carbon .
Since that time experiments have been made , not only with that element but with several others , and the same influence seems to he exerted on the combustion of some , while no such influence could be detected in the case of other elements .
It was discovered very early in the investigation that hydrogen , both free and combined , aided the union of carbon with dried oxygen , and therefore for the new experiments on this and other elements , special attention was devoted to their purification from hydrogen .
It was found that two of these elements , amorphous phosphorus and bordn , had , like carbon , a very great power of occluding hydrogen .
To eliminate it lime of the elements were heated in a current of pure chlorine , while others were heated in sealed tubes with the chlorides of the elements , special precautions being taken to VOL. XLV .
B 2 Mr. H. B. Baker .
Combustion dried Oxygen .
[ Nov. 15 , free the purified elements from all traces of the agents used in their purification .
In this way the elements\#151 ; carbon , sulphur , boron , and phosphorus , the latter in both red and yellow modifications\#151 ; were found to have their combustion influenced by the dryness of the oxygen .
Some chemical union was found to take place , the extent of which varied with the dryness of the , substances .
In no case , however , did it manifest itself by flame .
Ordinary phosphorus Vas obtained so pore as not to glow in the oxygen dried by phosphorus pentoxide , though the pressure was increased and diminished in every possible way .
If water was added rapid combustion at once set in .
The elements\#151 ; selenium , tellurium , arsenic , and antimony were purified with as much care as was expended on the elements mentioned above .
Their combustion was , however , not found to be affected in any way by the dryness of the gas .
In the course of the investigation two facts were discovered about the combustion : ( i ) of amorphous phosphorus , and ( ii ) of charcoal in oxygen .
Amorphous phosphorus is generally regarded as being incapable of true combustion .
It is asserted that before amorphous phosphorus can be heated to its kindling point , it changes into ordinary phosphorus , which then burns .
This has been proved not to be the case .
Amorphous phosphorus was heated in a current of nitrogen , free from traces of oxygen , to 260 ' , 278 ' , and 300 ' , in three experiments , without undergoing any change to the ordinary modification .
If moist oxygen was substituted for the nitrogen combustion took place at 260 ' .
It seems , therefore , probable that amorphous phosphorus undergoes a true combustion in oxygen without previous change to the ordinary modification .
With regard to the combustion of carbon , it has always been a doubtful question which of the two oxides is first formed .
Is carbon monoxide the first product , undergoing further oxidation to the dioxide , or is carbon dioxide the first and only substance formed ?
The problem seems incapable of direct solution .
It is , however , open to indirect attack .
When carbon is heated in a current of oxygen dried for a short time by phosphorus pentoxide , a slow combustion goes on , and , though the oxygen is in excess , both oxides are produced .
The amount of monoxide , however , is twenty times the amount of the dioxide .
Experiments also show that this occurs at temperatures at which dry carbon dioxide is not reduced by carbon .
The carbon monoxide must , therefore , be produced by the direct union of its elements , its further oxidation being prevented by the dryness of the gases .
Confirmatory experiments were performed in which carbon monoxide was found to be produced by the slow combustion of carbon in air at 440 ' , a temperature too low for the reduction of the dioxide by carbon .
It is probable that the ordinary combustion of carbon goes on in two stages , that carbon monoxide is 1888 .
] Conditions of a Swarm of , Sfe .
3 first produced , and , if circumstances are favourable , this is further oxidised to carbon dioxide .
II .
" On the Mechanical Conditions of a Swarm of Meteorites , and on Theories of Cosmogony .
" By G. H. Darwin , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College and Plumian Professor in the University of Cambridge .
Received July 12 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) Mr. Lockyer writes in bis interesting paper on Meteorites* as follows " The brighter lines in spiral nebulae , and in those in which a rotation has been set up , are in all probability due to streams of meteorites with irregular motions out of the main streams , in which the collisions would be almost nil It has already been suggested by Professor G. Darwin ( 'Nature , 'vol .
31 , p. 25)\#151 ; using the gaseous hypothesis\#151 ; that in such nebulae the great mass of the gas is non-luminous , the luminosity being an evidence of condensation along lines of low velocity according to a well-known hydro dynamical law .
From this point of view the visible nebula may be regarded as a luminous diagram of its own stream-lines .
' " The whole of Mr. Lockyer 's paper , and especially this passage in it , leads me to make a suggestion for the reconciliation of two apparently divergent theories of the origin of planetary systems .
The nebular hypothesis depends essentially on the idea that the primitive nebula is a rotating mass of fluid , which at successive epochs becomes unstable from excess of rotation , and sheds a ring from the equatorial region .
The researches of Rochef ( apparently but little known in this country ) have imparted to this theory a precision which was wanting in Laplace 's original exposition , and have rendered the explanation of the origin of the planets more perfect .
But notwithstanding the high probability that some theory of the kind is true , the acceptance of the nebular hypothesis presents great difficulties .
Sir William Thomson long ago expressed to me his opinion that the most probable origin of the planets was through a gradual accretion of meteoric matter , and the researches of Mr. Lockyer afford actual evidence in favour of the abundancy of meteorites in space .
* 'Nature , ' Nov. 17 , 1887 .
The paper itself is in 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' Nov. 15 , 1887 ( No. 259 , p. 117 ) .
t 4 Montpellier , Acad. Sci. .
Mem. '

