844 Mr. H. N. Moseley on the Structure [ May 21 , May 21 , 1874 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , followed by Dr. SHARPLY , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Structure and Development of Peripatus By H. N. Moseley , M. A. , Naturalist to the f Challenger Expedition .
Communicated by Prof. Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. \amp ; c. , Director of the Scientific Civilian Staff of the Expedition .
Received April 9 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) The author commences by expressing his obligations to Professor Thomson , who gave him assistance in some parts of his work , and every encouragement in the further prosecution of it .
Specimens of Peripatus were collected at the Cape of Good Hope during the stay of H.M.S. ' Challenger ' at Simon 's Bay , with a view to the investigation of the development of the animal .
A specimen was dissected and at once seen to be provided with tracheae , and to contain far developed young .
This led to as careful an examination being made as time would permit , and hence the present paper .
The most modern paper on Peripatus is that of Grube* .
Grube , after examining the anatomy of the animal , came to the conclusion that it was hermaphrodite , and placed it among the " Bristle-Worms " in a separate order , Onychophora .
Grube has been followed in most text-books , such as those of Claus and Schmarda ; but uncertainty on the matter has been generally felt .
De Quatrefages*f* follows Gervais in placing Peripatus in affinity with the Myriopods , and the result of the present investigation is to show that he is not far wrong .
The species made use of appears to be Peripatus capensis , described by Grube in the Zoological Series of the ' Novara ' expedition .
The animal has invariably seventeen pairs of ambulatory members , a pair of oral papillae , and two pairs of horny hooked jaws , shut in by tumid lips .
The specimens found varied in length from 1*6 to centims. , in the contracted condition .
About thirty specimens were found , all of them but one at Wynborg , between Simon 's Bay and Cape Town .
The animals appear to be somewhat local and not very abundant ; they live in damp places under trees , and especially frequent rotten willow-wood .
* Muller 's Archiv , 1853 .
+ Hist , des Anneles .
1874 .
] and Development of Peripatus capensis .
345 They feed on rotten wood .
They are nocturnal in their habits .
They coil themselves up spirally like lulus when injured .
They have a remarkable power of extension of the body , and when walking stretch to nearly twice the length they have when at rest .
They can move with considerable rapidity .
They walk with the body entirely supported on their feet .
Their gait is not in the least like that of worms , but more like that of caterpillars .
When irritated they shoot out with great suddenness from the oral papillae a peculiarly viscid tenacious fluid , which forms a meshwork of fine threads , with viscid globules on them at intervals , the whole resembling a spider 's web with the dew upon it .
The fluid is ejected at any injuring body , and is probably used in defence against enemies , such as insects , which would be held powerless for some time if enveloped in its meshes .
The fluid is not irritant when placed on the tongue , but slightly bitter and astringent ; it is as sticky as birdlime : flies , when they light in it , are held fast at once .
The fluid is structureless , but presents an appearance of fine fibrillation when dry .
The animal is best obtained dead in an extended condition by drowning it in water , which operation takes four or five hours .
Only those points in anatomy are touched on which appear to have hitherto been wrongly or imperfectly described .
The intestinal tract is not straight , as described by Grube , but longer than the body , and usually presents one vertical fold ; it presents numerous irregular sinuous lateral folds , but is not enlarged in every segment , as stated by Grube .
Special regions , a muscular pharynx , short oesophagus , long stomach , and short rectum are distinguished in the tract .
The viscid fluid ejected from the oral papillae is secreted by a pair of ramified tubular glands lying at the sides of the stomach and stretching nearly the whole length of the body .
These glands are those described by Grube as testes ; they show a common glandular structure , but no trace of testicular matter .
A pair of enlargements on the ducts of the glands , provided with spirally arranged muscles , serve as ejaculatory reservoirs .
The lateral elongate bodies lying outside the nerve-cords , considered by Grube to be vessels , show a fatty structure , vary much in extent , and are probably to be regarded as representing the fatty bodies of Tracheata .
No structure like that of the heart of Myriapods was found in the dorsal vessel .
The tracheal system consists of long fine tracheal tubes , which very rarely branch : these arise , in densely packed bunches , from short common tubes , which open all over the body by small outlets in the epidermis ; '.these outlets have no regular structure and are difficult to see .
The whole of the tracheal system , very conspicuous in the fresh condition , becomes almost invisible when the animal examined has been a short time in spirit , and the air has been thus removed from frhe trachea .
Hence the failure of Grube to see them* The trachea 2 e 2 Mr. H. N. Moseley on Structure [ May 21 , are distributed in meshworks to all the viscera .
The spiral filament is very imperfectly developed .
A row of larger oval spiracles exists along the middle line of the under surface , the spiracles being placed opposite the interspaces of the feet , but not quite regularly .
Other large spiracles exist on the inner sides of the bases of the feet .
A large supply of tracheae goes to the rectum and muscular pharnyx .
In many points the structure of the tracheal system resembles that in lulus .
Peripatus is not hermaphrodite .
Out of thirty specimens about ten were males .
No outward distinction of the sexes could be discovered .
The female organs consist of a small oblong ovary situate behind the stomach , about one sixth of the length from the end of the body ; from this lead a pair of oviducts , which , at their terminations , become enlarged and perform a uterine function , appearing , when filled with embryos , like a string of sausages .
In nearly all cases , even when the embryos were far advanced , two large masses of spermatozoa were found in the ovary , and others attached to the ovisacs externally .
A long loop , formed by the oviducts on each side being quite loose in the body , becomes often thrown into a knot through the constant protraction and retraction of the body-wall .
The knot is known to sailors as an overhand knot on a bight .
The knot sometimes becomes drawn very tight , and then prevents the passage of the embryos above it .
A case was met with in which this had occurred .
The upper parts of the oviducts were mortified off at the knot , and remained attached only to the ovary .
The ducts were dilated into large single sacs , the usual constrictions between the embryos having disappeared , and were full of decomposed embryos and fatty tissue .
The knot was met with in many specimens\#151 ; in some cases on both sides of the body , in others ( as in that figured ) on only one .
The oviducts unite in a short common tube to open at the simple vulva .
The male organs consist of a pair of large ovoid testes , surmounted by short tubular prostates .
The vasa deferentia are long and tortuous , forming , near the testes , spiral coils in which the ducts are enlarged , and which may be called vesicul\#174 ; seminales .
A muscular ejaculatory tube , or penis , lies on one side of the body\#151 ; sometimes on one , sometimes on the other .
One vas deferens passes across , at the end of the body , under both nerve-cords to join the penis ; the other takes a more direct course , not passing under the cords at all .
In the original condition both ducts probably passed one under each nerve-cord , to join the centrally placed common terminal tube , homologous with that of the female organs .
The spermatozoa are filamentary , as in insects and in but not in lulus .
Their development is described .
They are very long , and their tails have a spiral movement as well as an undulatory one .
They twist into all sorts of loops .
The muscular tissue of Peripatus is unstriated .
The development of Peripatus was only partially followed .
As a rule , 1874 .
] and Development ofPeripatus capensis .
347 all the embryos found in one mother are of the same age .
In some cases slight differences were found , which were very valuable for determining the development of the parts of the mouth .
The embryos lie coiled up in simple hyaline envelopes , enclosing an ovoid cavity , within the enlargements of the uterine tubes .
In the earliest stage observed the embryo had large round cephalic lobes and was without members , but showed distinct segmentation about its middle ; it was coiled up spirally , the head being free , the tail in the axis of the coil .
Later on the embryo becomes bent round in an oval , with the tip of the tail resting between the antennae .
The front members are formed first : they arise as undulations of the lateral wall of the body , which become pushed further and further outwards , and are at first hollow , formed of two layers of cells , the inner of which is reflected over the intestine .
The members form one after another , from the head downwards .
A line of segmentation is formed across the body before the pair of members swells out , but disappears as they develop .
The wall of the digestive tract is , in the early condition , drawn out laterally at each interspace between the pairs of members , to become attached there to the body-wall .
The cephalic lobes early show traces of a separation into two segments , anterior and posterior ; from them , anteriorly , bud out the antennae , which gradually become more and more jointed .
The mouth forms before the anus .
The full number of body-members is very early attained .
The second pair is the largest at first , but subsequently become the small oral papillae .
The first pair turn inwards towards the primitive mouthopening , and , developing their claws greatly , form the pair of horny jaws ; these are covered by processes which grow down from the lower part of the head , and which eventually unite with the tissues at the bases of the oral tentacles and form the tumid lips , which , eventually closing in , hide all the parts of the mouth in the adult .
The head-processes are probably homologous with the mandibles of higher Tracheata , the horny jaws with the maxillae and the oral papillae with the foot-jaws of Scolopendrcc a regular labrum is formed by a downward growth from the front of the head , but is eventually shut in by the tumid lips .
It is uncertain whether a corresponding structure beneath the mouth represents the second under lip of or a true labium .
The foot-claws are developed in invaginations of the tips of the ambulacra ] members .
The young members develop five joints each , the typical number in insects , and one which seems to be retained in the adult .
In the present state of our knowledge concerning the structure of Peripatus , the most remarkable fact in its structure is the wide divarication of the ventral nerve-cords .
The fact was considered remarkable and dwelt upon in all accounts of Peripatus before the existence of tracheae in the animal was known , and when it was thought 348 Mr. H. N. Moseley on Structure [ May 21 , to be hermaphrodite , but it is doubly remarkable now .
The fact BhutB off at once all idea of Peripatus being a degenerate Myriopod , the evidence against which possibility is overwhelming .
The bilateral symmetry and duplicity of the organs of the body , the absence of stria-tion in the muscles , of periodical moults of the larval skin in development , and of any trace of a primitive three-legged condition , taken in conjunction with the divarication of the nerve-cords , are conclusive .
The parts of the mouth are not to be regarded as degraded to any great degree ; and homologies for some of them , at least , may perhaps be found amongst the higher Annelids .
The structure of the skin is not at all unlike that in some worms , especially in its chitinous epidermic layer , which occasionally strips off in large pieces as a thin transparent pellicle .
The many points of resemblance of Peripatus to Annelids need not be dwelt upon ; they led to its former placing in classification ; but it is difficult to understand how the very unannelid-like structure of the foot-claws did not lead others , beside De Quatrefages , to draw a line between patus and the Annelids .
In being unisexual , is like the higher Annelids , as well as the whole of the higher Traeheata .
To Insects Peripatus shows affinities in the form of the spermatozoa , and the elaboration , structure , and bilateral symmetry of the generative organs , though there is a very slight tendency towards the unilaterality of Myriopods in the male organs .
To Insects , again , it is allied by the five-jointing of the feet and oral papillae and the form and number of its claws .
It should be remembered that spiders ' feet are two-clawed , as are those of some Tardigrades , and that some of these latter forms have two-clawed feet in the early condition even when they possess more claws in the adult state .
In Newport 's well-known figure of the young lulus with three pairs of limbs , the tips of these latter are drawn with two hair-like claws ; these are not mentioned in the text .
To the ordinary lepidopterous larva the resemblances of Peripatus are striking\#151 ; as , for example , the gait , the glands ( so like in their function and position to silk-glands ) , the form of the intestine , and the less perfect concentration of the nervous organs , as in larval insects .
To Myriopods Peripatus is allied by the great variety in number of segments in the various species , in its habits , and in these especially to lulus .
The parts of the mouth perhaps show a form out of which those of Scolopenclrawere derived by modification ; but the resemblance may be superficial .
Our knowledge is not yet sufficient to deter-inine such points .
The usual difficulties occur in the matter .
Segments may have dropped out or fused , and their original condition may not be represented at all in the process of development .
In structure Peripatus is more like Scolopendra than lulus , viz. in the many joints to the antennae ( in Chilognaths never more than fourteen ) , in the form of spermatozoa , and in being viviparous , as are some Scolopendra ; ; further , in the position of the orifices of the generative glands and in 1874 .
] and Development of Peripatus capensis .
the less perfect concentration mesially of the nerve-cords in Scolo-pendrci .
Peripatus thus shows affinities , in some points , to all the main branches of the family tree of Tracheata ; but a gulf is fixed between it and them by the divarication of the nerve-cords : tending in the same direction are such facts as the non-striation of the muscles , the great power of extension of the body , the arrangement of the digestive tract in the early stage , the persistence of metamorphosis , and the nature of the parts of the mouth , the full history of the manner of origin of these being reserved .
There are many speculations as to the mode of origin of the tracheae themselves in the Tracheata .
Professer Hackel ( ' Biologische Studien , ' p. 491 ) follows Gegenbaur , whose opinion is expressed in his ' Grundziige der vergleichenden Anatomy , ' p. 441 .
Gegenbaur concludes that tracheae were developed from originally closed tracheal systems , through the intervention of the tracheal gills of primaeval aquatic insects now represented as larvae .
If Peripatus be as ancient in origin as is here supposed , the condition of the tracheal system in it throws a very different light on the matter .
Peripatus is the only Tracheate wTith tracheal stems opening diffusely all over the body .
The Protracheata probably had their tracheae thus diffused , and the separate small systems afterwards became concentrated along especial lines and formed into wide main branching trunks .
In some forms the spiracular openings concentrated towards a more ventral line { lulus ' ) ; in others they took a more lateral position ( Lepidopterous larvae , \amp ; c. ) .
A concentration along two lines of the body , ventral and lateral , has already commenced in Peripatus .
The original Protracheate being supposed to have had numerous small tracheae diffused all over its body , the question as to their mode of origin again presents itself .
The peculiar form of the tracheal bundles in , which consist of a number of fine tubes opening into the extremity of a single short common duct leading to the exterior of the body , seems to give a clue .
The tracheae are , very probably , modified cutaneous glands , the homologues of those so abundant all over the body in such forms as Bipalium or Hirudo .
The pumping extension and contraction of the body may well have drawn a very little air , to beginrwith , into the mouths of the ducts ; and this having been found beneficial by the ancestor of the Protracheate , further development is easy to imagine .
The exact mode of development of the tracheae iu the present form must be carefully studied ; there was no trace of these organs in the most perfect state of Peripatus which I obtained .
Professor Gegenbaur 's opinion on the position of Peripatus ( ' Gruncl-ziige der- vergleichenclen Anatomy , ' p. 199 ) is , that its place among the worms is not certain , but that , at any rate , it connects ringed worms with Arthropods and flat worms .
The general result of the present inquiry is to bear out Professor Gegenbaur 's opinion ; but it points to the connexion of the ringed and flat worms , by means of this interMr .
John Imray the [ May 21 mediate step , with three classes only of the Arthropods\#151 ; the Myriopods , Spiders , and Insects , i. e. the Tracheata .
From the primitive condition of the tracheae in lulus , and the many relations between and Scolopendra , it would seem that the Myriopods may be most nearly allied to Peripatus , and form a distinct branch arising from it and not passing through Insects .
The early three-legged stage may turn out as of not so much significance as supposed .
If these speculations be correct , the Crustacea have a different origin from the Tracheata .
Peripatus itself may well be placed amongst Professor Hackel 's Protracheata ; G-rube 's term Onychophora becomes no more significant than De Blainville 's Mala-copoda .
Some notions of the actual history of the origin of Peripatus itself may be gathered from its development .
In conclusion I would beg indulgence for the many defects in this paper , due to the hurry with which it was written ( all available time , almost up to the last moment of our sailing for the Antarctic regions , having been consumed in actual examination of the structure of Peripatus ) , and due , further , to the impossibility of referring to original papers in any scientific library .
At all events it is hoped that Peripatus has been shown to be of very great zoological interest , as lying near one of the main stems of the great zoological family tree , and that further examination of the most minute character into the structure of this animal will be well * repaid .
H.M.S. ' Challenger , ' Simon 's Bay , Cape of Good Hope , December 17 , 1873 .
II .
" The 'Uniform Wave of Oscillation.^ By John Imray , M.A. , Memb. Inst. C.E. Communicated by W. Froude , M.A. , F.R.S. Received April 11 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) The results of the investigation worked out in this paper correspond with those previously deduced by other analysts , particularly by Mr. W. Froude , F.R.S. The paper is therefore presented , not because it discloses any novel result , but rather as an example of a method which the author has found useful in the discussion of other dynamical problems .
The object of the paper is to trace the conditions under which the separate molecules of a liquid such as water move , when a body of that liquid is in a state of oscillatory wave-movement .
It is assumed that the wave-movement is established in a channel of uniform width and of length and depth so great that the conditions of motion are not affected by the interference of fixed ends or a fixed bottom .
The wave treated of has as its characteristics permanence of form and uniformity of apparent velocity .
In order that these conditions may be fulfilled , it is assumed , as beiug

