PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
1849 .
No. 73 .
March 1 , 1849 .
GEORGE RENNIE , Esq. , Treasurer , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " ' Minute Examination of the Organ of Taste in Man .
" By Augustus Waller , M.D. Communicated by Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. The author commences by describing his mode of observation , which differs from that followed by previous observers .
It consists in removing from the living tongue one of the papillae , and immediately subjecting it to examination .
He then proceeds to describe , -1st , the epithelium ; 2nd , the fungiform papillan ; 3rd , the conical papillee ; and 4th , the inferior surface with its mucous glands , &amp;c. 1 , The epithelium is of two kinds ; the flat plates with a central nucleus , which are mostly found clothing the stem and other regions of the fungiform papillae ; and the globular cells which compose most of the external parts of the processes of the conical papillee .
2 .
The fungiform papillem are found to consist of numerous small cones seated on a common stem .
These secondary cones , already described by Albinus , are completely hidden by a common investment of epithelium which fills up the irregular spaces between them .
Each of these cones contains capillary vessels , which , at the apex of the cone , either form a simple loop or a complex coil which is covered only by epithelian scales of the most attenuated nature .
The author states that in these capillary vessels the motion of the blood may be observed for several seconds after the removal from the living body , and may be excited for a long time by the application of a slight degree of pressure .
By these means he has been enabled to watch the passage of the red and white globules contained in the blood , and to detect in the human papillae all the various phenomena in the transparent membranes of the lower animals .
By allowing the blood to coagulate in the vessels , beautiful examples of injected papille may be obtained .
The congestion of the vessels is much increased by compressing the point of the tongue before the removal of the 804 , papille .
The capillaries are connected together at the bases of the secondary papillae , and arise from a common trunk immersed in the body of the papilla .
The nerves are found to subdivide in the separate cones , in which they ascend to the apex and terminate in abrupt extremities , as in the frog , toad , &amp;c. In the feetus the fungiform papillie are stated to consist of a simple cone without any secondary papillae .
3 .
The conical or filiform papillae of man are described to be of a compound nature , consisting of numerous secondary cones springing from a common stem .
Each of these secondary cones is clothed with an elongated process which is fitted on the cone like a sheath .
This process consists of elongated epithelial scales ascending towards the summit , and resembling in general appearance the feather of an arrow .
At their summit these processes are clothed with an external zone of granular matter , which considerably adds to their thickness .
This granular matter is often detached after the papilla has been ' removed a short time from the tongue .
The blood-vessels form a simple loop at the summit of the papilla , and the nerves are arranged in a similar manner .
4 .
The inferior surface is described as very smooth , presenting numerous follicles abundantly supplied with blood-vessels and nerves .
These follicles are generally of a conical shape and surrounded with an arch composed of epithelial cells .
The nerves may frequently be detected and followed over the surface of the follicle , but their extremities are hidden amidst the blood-vessels .
The author has illustrated the paper by several drawings .

