F ig .
1.\#151 ; Transverse section through the abdominal chromaphil body of the dog .
Fixed in corrosive sublimate and stained with hsematoxylin .
Section 10 fi in thickness .
Leitz , obj .
6 .
Drawing ocular .
F ig .
2.\#151 ; Section through the medulla of the adrenal of a dog , prepared as in case of previous figure .
Same magnification .
F ig .
3.\#151 ; Section through a group of chromaphil cells in the inferior cervical ganglion of the dog .
Fixed in Kohn 's fluid ( bichromate-formol , see text ) .
Leitz , Tie ' oil immersion .
Drawing ocular .
F ig .
4.\#151 ; Transverse section through the abdominal chromaphil body of the dog .
Fixed in Kohn 's fluid ( v. supra ) , stained with hsematoxylin .
Leitz , oil immersion .
Drawing ocular .
F ig .
5.\#151 ; Section through the medulla of the adrenal of a dog .
Kohn 's fluid .
Hsematoxylin .
Leitz , obj .
6 .
Drawing ocular .
Occurrence o f a Mesoccelic Recess in the Human Brain .
On the Occurrence of a Mesoccelic Recess in the Human Brain , and its Relation to the Sub-Commissural Organ o f Lower Vertebrates ; with special reference to the Distribution o f Reissners Fibre in the Vertebrate Series and its possible Function .
By A rthur D endy , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Zoology in King 's College ( University of London ) , and G. E. N icholls , B.Sc. , Assistant-Lecturer and Demonstrator in Zoology in King 's College .
( Received May 24 , \#151 ; Read June 2 , 1910 .
) [ Plate 14 .
] I. Introductory .
Eight years ago one of us ( Dendy , 1902 ) published in the ' Proceedings ' of the Royal Society a description of a peculiar structure lying $ beneath the posterior commissure in the brain of the Ammoccete , in the shape of a pair of longitudinal grooves lined by greatly elongated and apparently ciliated columnar cells , and evidently formed by specialisation of the ependymal epithelium which lines the cavity of the brain .
Previous to this time there appear to have been , at the most , only a few scattered references to the occurrence of any such structure in the vertebrate brain .
We now know , however , that it occurs throughout the whole vertebrate series , from the lampreys to the primates , it having recently been figured , in the case of Macacus , by Sir Victor Horsley ( 1908 ) .
VOL. lxxxii.\#151 ; b. 2 R 516 Prof. A. B en d y and Mr. G. E. Nicholls .
[ May 24 , Sargent ( 1903 ) has given to this structure the name " Ependymal Groove , " and has described it in a number of Ichthyopsidan types .
He says , however ( 1903 , 1904 ) , that it is inconspicuous in mammals .
We ourselves have recently observed it in a number of different forms .
It is very well developed , for example , in Sphenodon , and we find it also strongly developed in the mouse and the cat .
Sargent showed , further , that the " ependymal groove " is intimately connected with the anterior end of Eeissner 's fibre , and in fact regarded it merely as a kind of attachment plate for the latter .
We also have been able to demonstrate quite clearly its connection with Reissner 's fibre in a large number of types , e.g. Geotria ( Bendy , 1907 ) and Rana ( Nicholls , 1908 ) .
We shall discuss its possible function later on in the present communication ; but , in the meantime , we may state that we do not consider that the term " ependymal groove " is sufficiently distinctive for so remarkable and constant a feature of the vertebrate brain , for it is , of course , not the only ependymal groove present .
Inasmuch as it lies beneath the posterior commissure , we propose to speak of it in future as the " SubCommissural Organ .
" It appears primarily to be made up of two bands of columnar epithelium , usually more or less completely united together in the form of a groove ; but , whereas it remains throughout life in a well developed condition in all the lower vertebrates , in man , as we shall endeavour to show in the present communication , it becomes reduced in the adult to a mere vestige sunk in the brain tissue at the back of the posterior commissure , but unmistakably recognisable as the homologue of the sub-commissural organ of lower types .
Sub-Commissural Ovgctn in the Mouse , Cat , and Chimpanzee .
As the sub-commissural organ is as yet very little known , we propose , for purposes of comparison , to give a short description of it as it occurs in the mouse , the cat , and the chimpanzee , which -form a series leading up to the vestigial condition in the human brain .
We believe the organ in question has never yet been described in any of these types , nor , indeed , has a complete description of it been given for any mammal .
j fouse.\#151 ; In a sagittal section of the brain of the common house-mouse , such as is represented in text-fig .
1 , we see the infra.-pineal recess ( i.p.r. ) projecting upwards and backwards between the posterior and superior ( s.c. ) commissures , and leading to the elongated pineal gland In front of the superior commissure the roof of the third ventricle is produced upwards and backwards to form the supra-pineal recess ( s.p.r. ) , a narrow diverticulum which lies parallel to the infra-pineal recess and pineal gland , an which is doubtless homologous with the dorsal sac of lower types .
The wall of the supra-pineal recess is greatly folded to form a choroid plexus ( c.p. ) , and above and below it lie large veins ( v ) .
The lower surface of the posterior commissure is covered , in the middle line , by the peculiar high columnar 1910 .
] On a Mesoccelic Recess in the Human , etc. c a , Fig. 1.\#151 ; Mouse .
Sagittal Section through the Region of the Posterior Commissure , \amp ; c. x 60 .
( The lines ab , cd , indicate approximately the planes of the transverse sections represented in figs. 2 and 3 .
) c. c. , corpus callosum ; c. p. , choroid plexus ; i.p. r. , infra-pineal recess ; o. lobe ; p. c.t posterior commissure ; p. g. , pineal gland ; pit , isolated invaginated patches of the epithelium of the sub-commissural organ ; r./ .
, Reissner 's fibre ; 8 .
csuperior commissure ; s.c. o. , sub-commissural organ ; s.p. r. , supra-pineal recess ; v. , veins .
epithelium of the sub-commissural organ ( s.c.o. ) , which is continued round the anterior end of the posterior commissure for a short distance on to the floor of the infra-pineal recess , where it gradually loses its columnar character .
Beneath the epithelium are seen portions of Reissner 's fibre ( r./ .
) , whose branches , no doubt , are connected with the epithelial cells as in lower types , and as in the cat to be described later on .
I t will be noticed that the epithelium of the sub-commissural organ is thrown into a transverse fold near its anterior end , just before it turns round over the anterior end of the posterior commissure .
Towards its hinder extremity it appears to become discontinuous , and two little separate islands Prof. A. Dendy and Mr. G. E. Nicholls .
[ May 24 , iter j f ' Fio .
2.\#151 ; Mouse .
Transverse Section through the Region of the Posterior Commissure , taken at about the level of the line ab in fig. 1 .
x 105 .
_ .
c.p. , choroid plexus ; i.p.r.t infra-pineal recess ; p.c. , posterior t.c. o. , sub-commissural organ ; s.p. r. , supra-pineal recess ; v. , veins .
1910 .
] On a Mesoccelic Recess in the Human 51e9tc .
are formed , which have become partially invaginated into the underlying tissues of the brain in the form of small pits ( pit ) .
The transverse sections represented in text-figs .
2 and 3 will serve to further elucidate the relations above described .
The lines ab and in text-fig .
1 indicate approximately the levels at which these two sections are F ig .
3.\#151 ; Mouse .
Transverse Section through the region of the Superior ( Habenular ) Commissure at about the level of the line cd in fig. 1 .
x 60 .
c. c. , corpus callosum ; h. g. , habenular ganglion ; i.p. r. , infra-s .
c. , superior commissure ; s.c. o. , sub-commissural organ ; s.p. r. , supra-pineal recess ; v.t veins .
taken ( all the sections are , of course , drawn from actual preparations ) .
In these sections we may confine our attention to the sub-commissural organ ( s.c.o. ) .
Text-fig .
2 shows this organ in the form of a very conspicuous horseshoe-shaped groove , lined by greatly elongated columnar cells and very sharply marked off from the ordinary ependyma of the iter below it , the latter exhibiting a characteristic fold on either side where it joins the former .
The cells of the sub-commissural organ are probably provided with cilia , but this is not evident in our preparations .
The epithelium shows a strong tendency to split longitudinally at the bend of the horseshoe , which possibly indicates its paired character .
A further indication of this paired character is seen in the section represented in text-fig .
3 , where the epithelium is cut through quite separately and in two almost detached patches , as it projects from the anterior surface of the posterior commissure .
I t is thus evident that in the mouse the sub-commissural organ is a very conspicuous structure , which probably has some important function connected with the associated Eeissner 's fibre .
Prof. A. Dendy and Mr. G. E. Nicholls .
[ May 24 , F ig .
4.\#151 ; Cat. Transverse Section through the Sub-Commissural Organ in the Region of the Posterior Commissure , x 320 .
p. c. , posterior commissure ; r. f. , Reissner 's fibre ' ; s.c. o. , sub-commissural organ .
The Gat.\#151 ; In the cat the sub-commissural organ is not so well defined it is in the mouse , but still very obvious , as will be seen from the transverse section represented in text-fig .
4 .
Here the double character of the organ is very well seen ; it is clearly made up of two bands of greatly elongated ependymal cells , rig h t , and left , and these cells appear to be distinctly ciliated .
Eeissner 's fibre ( r./ .
) , which can be traced for a long distance through this series of sections , is clearly seen lying in the groove between the two halves of the sub-commlssural organ .
Text-fig .
5 represents another section from the same series , but near the anterior end of the sub-commissural organ .
The epithelium is seen to be losing its characteristic columnar appearance , especially in the middle line , but Reissner 's fibre is still present , and , indeed , in this and neighbouring sections may be seen breaking up into branches , which actually run to the epithelium .
1910 .
] On a Mesoccelic Recess in the Human , etc. F ig .
5.\#151 ; Cat. Transverse Section through the Region of the Posterior Commissure considerably anterior to the section shown in fig. 4 .
x 125 .
p. c. , posterior commissure ; r. Reissner 's fibre ; o. , sub-The Chimpanzee.\#151 ; Here , again , we have studied the sub-commissural organ by means of serial transverse sections .
The entire brain had been hardened in situ by means of formalin and alcohol for ordinary anatomical purposes .
I t is naturally not in a good condition for the study of minute histological details , but shows very clearly the general form and relations of the parts under discussion .
The sub-commissural organ commences , as in the mouse , on the anterodorsal aspect of the posterior commissure , where the latter forms the floor of the infra-pineal recess ( compare text-fig .
1 ) , where , however , it is very feebly developed .
I t can be followed backwards beneath the posterior commissure as a broad and very shallow groove ( Plate 14 , fig. 1 , s.c.o. ) , the epithelium of which shows the nuclei arranged in several layers , but does not exhibit the typical differentiation until we come to about the hinder limit of the posterior commissure ( text-fig .
6 ) .
Here the sub-commissural organ takes the form of two separate bands of the characteristic high columnar epithelium , which become invaginated into the roof of the , just behind the posterior commissure .
This invagination ( m.r. ) turns forwards above the posterior commissure , where it is seen in the transverse section represented in Plate 14 , fig. 1 , the two epithelial bands having met together and completely surrounded the recess thus formed .
This recess ends blindly in front at a distance of about 0*225 mm. from the point where it turns forwards above its opening into the It has an internal diameter of about 0*25 mm. The enormously elongated , almost fibre-like cells by which it is surrounded measure about 0*057 mm. in length , and their nuclei are situated towards their inner ends .
Though not in a good state histologically , it is evident that they agree closely in character with the corresponding cells in the cat and mouse .
522 Prof. A. Dendy and Mr. G. E. Nicholls .
[ May 24 , F ig .
6.\#151 ; Chimpanzee .
Transverse Section through the Sub-Commissural Organ at the Posterior End of the Posterior Commissure , x 60 .
m. r. , mesocoelic recess ; s.c. o. , sub-commissural organ .
This recess , which forms a very conspicuous feature in transverse sections of the chimpanzee 's brain , corresponds in position with what Sargent ( 1904 ) has termed the recessus mesoccelicus in the sea lamprey ( marinus ) , where also he regards it as part of the sub-commissural organ ( Ependymal Groove ) .
Stieda long ago ( 1870 , fig. 15 ) figured a similar recess above the posterior commissure in the frog 's brain , but without recognising its significance .
Gaupp ( 1899 , fig. 17 ) also figures this recess in the frog , and terms it the " diverticulum impar .
" We have already noticed in the mouse a tendency on the part of the epithelium of the sub-commissural organ to become invaginated behind the posterior commissure , so that this tendency would appear to be very general throughout the vertebrate series .
I t is possible that in all cases the invagination may be apparent rather than real , and due to overgrowth of the subcommissural organ by the surrounding tissues .
We have found no trace of Reissner 's fibre in the chimpanzee , but it was hardly to be expected in material preserved merely for anatomical purposes .
III .
The Sub-Commissural Organ in Man .
A mesoccelic recess , evidently homologous with that of the chimpanzee , but very much smaller , is readily recognisable in transverse sections of the adult human brain , where it appears to constitute the last vestige of the sub-commissural organ , while in the five months ' foetus this organ is still fairly well developed .
1910 .
] On a Mesoccelic Recess in the Human , etc. F ig .
7.\#151 ; Human foetus of about five months .
Transverse section through the Region of the Posterior Commissure , x 60 .
e.p. e. , ependymal epithelium of iter ; m. r. , mesocoelic recess ; p .
c. , posterior commissure ; 8.c .
o. , sub-commissural organ .
In the foetus the sub-commissural organ is , indeed , rather better developed than in the chimpanzee .
As in that animal , it begins anteriorly in the infrapineal recess , where the characteristic high columnar epithelium , with deeply-seated nuclei , is well marked .
As it is traced backwards around the curve of the posterior commissure its paired nature becomes evident .
The two halves diverge , and come to lie widely separated in the roof of the iter , forming a pair of small shallow grooves , as shown in text-fig .
7. .
Laterally these grooves are not clearly marked off from the general !
ependyma , which , as is well known , is much more strongly developed in the foetus than in the adult , but is distinguished from the epithelium of the grooves by the much more superficially-placed nuclei .
Mesially the edges of the grooves become more sharply defined ( text-fig .
7 ) , the ependyma having practically disappeared from beneath the commissure between the grooves(compare cat , text-fig .
5 ) .
Towards the hinder end of the posterior commissure these two groovesunite again and become invaginated into the roof of the iter to form a mesoccelic recess exactly comparable to that already described in thechimpanzee , but more widely open below ( text-fig .
8 ) .
This recess is lined throughout by the characteristic ependyma of the subcommissural organ , and tunnels forwards into the brain tissue above the posterior commissure for a distance of about 0'35 mm. Its full length is rather greater than this owing to the tube becoming bent back upon itself for about 0-06 mm. to its blind termination .
Prof. A. Dendy and Mr. G. E. Nicholls .
[ May 24 , .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Human foetus of about five months .
Transverse Section through the SubCommissural Organ at the Posterior End of the Posterior Commissure , x 154 .
e.p. e. , ependymal epithelium of the iter ; t.c. o. , sub-commissural organ .
The diameter of the recess , as seen in text-fig .
9 , is only about 0*02 mm. , the recess being in this case much longer than wide\#151 ; in fact , distinctly tubular .
The lumen of the tube is somewhat triangular in transverse section ( text-fig .
9 ) , widening suddenly to its opening behind ( text-fig .
8 ) .
The elongated , radially arranged cells lining the recess are about 0 02 mm. in length .
Behind the recess the ependyma of the sub-commissural organ passes gradually into the general ependyma of the iter .
In sections through the region of the posterior commissure in the brain of the adult human subject the sub-commissural organ is seen to have almost entirely vanished .
The ependyma covering the ventral surface of the 1910 .
] On a Mesoccelic Recess in the Human , etc. F ig .
9.\#151 ; Human foetus of about five months .
Transverse Section through the Mesocoelic Recess , slightly anterior to the section represented in fig. 8 .
x 320 .
m. r. , mesoccelic recess ; s.c. o. , sub-commissural organ , forming the epithelial lining of the mesocoelic recess .
commissure consists apparently of somewhat flattened cells with conspicuous nuclei , and differs very little fr6m the general lining epithelium of the rest , of the iter ; the only difference being that upon the side walls of the iter the nuclei are more crowded , and possibly the epithelium slightly more cubic or columnar , but much less distinctly so than in the foetus .
The ependyma beneath the posterior commissure is continuous round the anterior surface of the latter with that which lines the infra-pineal recess , and in no wise differs from it .
There is thus upon the surface of the commissure nowhere any indication of that characteristic elongatedly columnar epithelium that marks the sub-commissural organ in lower types .
At the hinder limit of the posterior commissure , however , about the middle line , there is an irregular thickening of the ependymal epithelium , and above this an irregular cavity ( Plate 14 , fig. 2 , m.r. ) occurs in the tissue of the brain , lined unevenly by the remains of an epithelium , with numerous scattered nuclei , exactly like that on the roof of the iter beneath it .
No opening could be found putting this cavity into communication with the cavity of the iter , but numerous scattered nuclei connect the two epithelia , and suggest the remains of such a communication .
In successive sections this irregular cavity can be traced forwards and upwards , behind and above the posterior commissure .
It obviously corresponds to the similarly situated mesoccelie recess in the foetus , although lacking its characteristic high columnar ependymal lining .
Anteriorly it again becomes choked with scattered cells , forming an ill-defined tract which passes forwards and then abruptly gives place to a small , but very well defined , sub-spherical chamber ( Plate 14 , fig. 3 , m.r. ) .
This chamber , moreover , is lined by exactly the same type of elongated epithelium as characterises the sub-commissural organ in the foetus and in lower forms .
The photomicrograph reproduced in Plate 14 , fig. 3 , shows this chamber , which we regard as simply the blind anterior termination of the mesocoelic recess ( compare Plate 14 , fig. 1 , and text-fig .
9 ) .
The lumen here has a diameter of about 0*05 mm. , while the cells of the lining epithelium are about 0 02 mm. long , with the nuclei placed as usual towards their inner ends .
In the lumen is a small quantity of coagulum .
In the brain tissue around the posterior portion of the mesocoelic recess ( i.e. that portion where the cavity has become irregular and largely obliterated ) occur numerous small globules ( Plate 14 , fig. 2 , gl .
) which have stained brightly red in the preparations ( which were treated with borax carmine in bulk , followed , upon the slide , by picro-indigo-carmine ) .
Whether these are due to pathological or to post-mortem changes we are unable to say ; that they are normally present seems improbable\#151 ; in any case they are conspicuous in these sections , and interesting as occurring closely adjacent to the last vestiges of the sub-commissural organ .
We have thus found the sub-commissural organ fairly well developed in the human foetus , and in an entirely vestigial condition in the adult .
We have , however , only been able to examine one series of sections in each case .
Probably , like many other vestigial structures , it will be found to vary considerably in the degree to which it persists in different individuals .
IV .
The Function of the Sub-Commissural Organ and Feissner 's Fibre .
Sargent , who has done so much to extend our knowledge of Keissner s fibre , considered ( 1904 ) this structure to be of a nervous nature , forming a kind of short circuit for optic motor reflexes .
Our own histological investigations on many types do not support this view , nor do the physiological experiments of Sir Victor Horsley and I)r .
McNalty ( 1908 ) .
On the other hand , there is every reason to believe that Eeissner 's fibre is a highly elastic structure , for it is well known that it has a strong tendency , when cut across , to spring back and coil itself into knots and spirals .
* Cf .
Nicholls ( 1909 ) .
Prof. A. Dendy and Mr. G. E. Nicholls .
[ May 24 , 1910 .
] On a Mesoccelic Recess in the Human Brain , Moreover , one of us ( Nicholls ) lias been able recently to demonstrate beyond question that at its posterior end ( in the lamprey and various teleosts ) the fibre is not connected with " canal cells " in the canalis centralis of the spinal cord , as maintained by Sargent , but is connected through a terminal foramen in the neural tube with the surrounding connective tissue .
Thus Studnicka 's statements on the subject ( 1899 ) , controverted by Sargent ( 1904 ) , are confirmed .
At its anterior end the fibre appears always to break up into very slender branches , which are connected with the epithelial cells of the subcommissural organ .
Eeissner 's fibre and the sub-commissural organ occur throughout the vertebrate series from the cyclostomes to the primates , and there can be little doubt that where they are ( as in nearly all cases ) well developed they must have some important function .
In a letter recently published in ' Nature ' one of us ( Dendy , 1909 ) has made a suggestion as to the possible function of these organs , which appears to us to be strongly supported by the results recorded in the present communication .
This suggestion was to the effect that Eeissner 's fibre and the sub-commissural organ ( " Ependymal Groove " ) may form part of an apparatus for regulating flexure of the body .
It was pointed out that any such flexure would tend to alter the tension of Eeissner 's fibre , and thereby exert a mechanical stimulus upon the epithelial cells of the subcommissural organ to which it is attached anteriorly .
I t was supposed that the stimulus thus received by the sensory epithelial cells might be transmitted to appropriate nerve-cells in the brain , and that the deviations of the long axis of the body from the normal position might thus be regulated by reflex action ; and a comparison was made with the function of the semicircular canals of vertebrates , and also with that of the " Statocysts " of many invertebrates , which serve by means of mechanical stimuli , due in this case to the action of gravity , automatically to regulate the orientation of the body .
The fact that man , almost the only vertebrate which has assumed the erect posture , and one of the few which have completely lost the tail , also has the sub-commissural organ in a more reduced condition than in any other case known , while the semi-erect and almost tailless chimpanzee is in this respect in an intermediate condition between man and the lower vertebrates , seems clearly to indicate that the function of the sub-commissural organ is in some way connected with the position of the body and the flexibility of the vertebral column ( including of course the tail ) .
Considering that the sub-commissural organ , with which Eeissner 's fibre , when present , is invariably connected , is reduced to a mere vestige in the 528 Occurrence of a Mesoccelic Recess in the Human adult man , it seems extremely improbable that man possesses any Reisaner 's fibre at all .
The only primates in which the presence of Reissner 's fibre has yet been demonstrated are Macacus cynomolgus and M. rhesus ( Horsley , 1908 ) , 'and it is perhaps significant that these are both tailed and nonerect forms .
We may perhaps point out that the suggestion thus put forward as to the possible function of Reissner 's fibre and the sub-commissural organ is not inconsistent with the view previously maintained by one of us ( Dendy , 1902 ) , to the effect that in the Ammocoete the latter may serve by ciliary action to promote the circulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid .
We should like to express our indebtedness to our colleagues Prof. Waterston , Prof. Peter Thompson , and Mr. Frazer , for placing at our disposal some of the material upon which this paper is based , and Mr. R. W. H. Row for making the photomicrographs used in illustration .
LITERATURE REFERRED TO .
1902 .
Dendy , " On a Pair of Ciliated Grooves in the Brain of the Ammoccete apparently serving to promote the Circulation of the Fluid in the Brain-cavity , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 69 .
1907 .
Dendy , " On the Parietal Sense-organs and Associated Structures in the New Zealand Lamprey ( Geotria australis ) , " 'Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. 51 , n.s. 1909 .
Dendy , " The Function of Reissner 's Fibre and the Ependymal Groove , " * Nature , ' vol. 82 , p. 217 .
1899 .
Gaupp , A. Ecker 's und R. Wiedersheim 's ' Anatomy des Frosches , ' vol. 2 .
1908 .
Horsley , " Note on the Existence of Reissner 's Fibre in Higher Vertebrates , " ' Brain , ' vol. 31 .
1908 .
Nicholls , " Reissner 's Fibre in the Frog , " ' Nature , ' vol. 77 , p. 344 .
1909 .
Nicholls , " The Function of Reissner 's Fibre and the ' Ependymal Groove , " 'Nature , ' vol. 82 , pp. 217\#151 ; 8 .
1903 .
Sargent , " The Ependymal Grooves in the Roof of the Diencephalon of Vertebrates , " ' Science , ' vol. 17 , p. 487 .
1904 .
Sargent , " The Optic Reflex Apparatus of Vertebrates for Short-circuit Transmission of Motor Reflexes through Reissner 's Fibre ; its Morphology , Ontogeny , Phylogeny , and Function.\#151 ; The Fish-like Vertebrates , " 'Bull .
Mus. Comp. Zool. , Harvard , ' vol. 45 .
1870 .
Stieda , " Studien liber das centrale Nervensystem der Wirbelthiere , " ' Zeits .
wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 20 .
1899 .
Studnicka , " Der ' Reissner'sche Faden ' aus dem Centralkanal des Riickenmarkes und sein Verhalten in dem Ventriculus ( Sinus ) terminalis , " 'Sitzungsb .
Bohm .
Gesell .
Wiss .
Math , naturw .
Cl. , ' No. 36 .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 14 .
F ig / 1 .\#151 ; Chimpanzee , photomicrograph of part of a Transverse Section through the Posterior End of the Posterior Commissure , showing the Sub-commissural Organ and the Mesoccelic Recess . .
x 34 .
Sc N ic h o lls .
Roy .
S o c .
P ro c .
B. , vol. 82 , PI .
14 .
F ig .
1 .
F ig .
Z. F ig .
3 .
pendy R* W. H. Row , Photo Swan Electric Engraving Co T ig .
2.\#151 ; Man ( adult ) .
Photomicrograph of part of a Transverse Section through the Posterior End of the Posterior Commissure , showing the Irregular Proximal ( posterior ) part of the Mesocoelic Eecess .
x 58 .
3Tig .
3 , \#151 ; Man ( adult ) .
Photomicrograph of part of a Transverse Section through the Posterior Part of the Posterior Commissure at a level slightly anterior to that of the section represented in fig. 2 , to show the terminal ( anterior ) portion of the mesocoelic recess , with its characteristic columnar epithelium , x 300 .
Explanation of Lettering .
b. v. , blood vessels ; gl .
, globular bodies ; m. r. , mesocoelic recess ; p. c. , posterior commissure ; s.c. o. , sub-commissural organ .
Autotoxcemia a Infection .
529 Autotoxcemia and Infection .
Die E. C. Hort , F.R.C.P. Ed. , Assistant Physician to the Italian Hospital .
( Communicated by William Osier , F.R.S. Received June 2 , \#151 ; Read June 23 , 1910 .
) The object of this communication is to show :\#151 ; That fever , * loss of weight , and a rise in the antitryptic values of the blood serum , three results common to infection in man , can be reproduced in animals by the subcutaneous injection of small quantities of distilled water .
Control Observations .
The following precautions were found to be necessary in order to demonstrate these effects , apart from selection of healthy animals for injection , and observance of strict aseptic conditions as to site of injection , instruments used , and water injected:\#151 ; Fever .
1 .
Selection and repeated testing of thermometers of guaranteed accuracy .
2 .
Accurate approximation of the temperature of the water injected to the temperature of the animal receiving the injection .
3 .
Determination of the mean average , and of the upper normal limit of , temperature of the species of animal selected for injection .
4 .
Demonstration that repeated handling and the taking of repeated thermometric observations do not cause a rise of temperature in the control animals .
5 .
Demonstration that mere subcutaneous puncture , or injection of air equivalent in bulk to the volumes of water injected , does not cause fever in the control animals .
* By fever is here meant a rise of temperature , and nothing more .

