278 The Factors in Rhythmic Activity of the Nervous * By T. G-raham Brown ( Carnegie Fellow ) .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received April 11 , _ Read May 16 , 1912 .
) ( From the Physiology Laboratory of the University of Liverpool .
) I. Introduction .
In a communication upon the intrinsic factors in progression presented to the Society in July of last yearf the author drew the conclusion that the rhythm of progression is of central origin .
In then enquiring into the nature of that central origin Re suggested that the movements are determined by a balance between equal and opposite states of excitation\#151 ; flexion producing and extension producing .
} ; An obvious line of research is thus presented by the possibility that reflex stimuli which normally evoke opposite reactions ( flexion and extension ) , that is , opposite states ( of excitation and inhibition ) in one and the same centre , when applied at the same time and with appropriate strengths of stimulus may give a rhythmic response .
When that communication was made such experiments had actually been performed and had yielded positive results .
The facts were not recorded because it was intended to give them in greater detail at a later date .
They have been embodied in a thesis presented to the University of Edinburgh ; but as some time must pass before they can be published in full it is desired to give a brief account of them here .
II .
Methods .
The muscles selected for examination were tibialis anticus and gastrocnemius \#151 ; a flexor and an extensor of the ankle .
These were prepared in a manner already described , J and their movements in response to stimulation of the ipsilateral and contralateral long saphenous nerves examined .
The muscles wrote , by means of levers attached by threads to their tendons , upon the blackened surface carried by a kymograph .
* The expenses of this research have been defrayed by a grant from the Carnegie Trust .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' 1911 , B , vol. 84 , p. 308 .
X 'Quart .
Journ. of Exp. Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 331 .
Rhythmic Activity of the Nervous System .
III .
Rhythmic Responses to Simple Stimuli .
The simple stimulus usually evokes a muscular response characterised by contraction of one muscle and relaxation of its antagonist .
Occasionally in the ipsilateral flexion-reflex the flexor contraction dies down during the process of the stimulus and at the same time an extensor contraction appears .
At the cessation of stimulation there may be a flexor rebound .
In a similar manner the contralateral extension-reflex occasionally exhibits contraction of both the antagonists .
Tracings demonstrating these points have already been published* A third type of reaction is seen in the rhythmic responses which are occasionally evoked .
In the low spinal preparation these are rare but may be evoked after a mechanical stimulation of the upper part of the lumbar portion of the divided spinal cord .
This often evokes a state of maintained extension , and a flexion-reflex then super-added may produce a rhythmic reaction .
This resembles the " balanced " phase of the progression reaction obtained on rapid division of the spinal cord.f So too may a reflex stimulus applied shortly after such a rapid division\#151 ; when the phenomenon is in the third phase of maintained extension .
In the decerebrate preparation there is a much greater tendency to the appearance of rhythmic reactions in response to simple stimuli .
Tracings in which this is evident have already been published.* These may appear when , as was described above in the case of the low spinal preparation , there is no such artificial background of maintained extension .
But it must be remembered that in the decerebrate preparation there is always the background of decerebrate rigidity\#151 ; that is , a maintained extension , and there is usually evident contraction of both antagonists .
These rhythmic reactions resemble the movements of progression and are reciprocal in the two muscles .
It happens very rarely that they resemble the movements of the scratch-reflex .
Both muscles contract together , and the " beats " seem to occur as relaxations of these contractions .
They occur alternately in the two muscles , the point of maximum relaxation in one corresponding to the point of maximum contraction in the other .
Another rhythmic response in the simple reflex is the " rhythmic rebound " already described by the author.* This occurs especially in the decerebrate preparation and after cessation of a stimulus .
The movements undoubtedly resemble those of progression .
* 'Quart .
Journ. of Exp. Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 331 .
+ ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , B , vol. 84 , p. 308 .
Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Apr. 11 , IV .
Rhythmic Responses to Compounded Stimuli .
Sherrington* has pointed out that weak inhibition is often accompanied by tremor .
In this paper he refers to the reflex inhibition of the state of decerebrate tonus by a stimulus which produces a flexion-reflex .
Dr. Forbes has informed me that he observed , some time since , a similar tremor on pitting two opposite reflex stimuli one against the other .
Sherrington has also shown that the tremor is reciprocal.f In the present experiments two opposite reflex stimuli were also pitted against one another , but the rhythmic response which was evoked cannot be described as " tremoT .
" It is far more akin to the rhythmic movements of the act of progression .
The results were obtained in the low spinal and in the decerebrate preparations .
In both kinds of preparation it was found in some cases that although a simple contralateral stimulus when applied alone gave a response of steadily maintained extensor contraction , and although a simple ipsilateral stimulus similarly applied gave pure maintained flexor contraction , yet when these were applied together the response became a rhythmic alternation of flexion and extension .
Thus if the contralateral stimulus was first applied it evoked a maintained contraction of the extensor .
If then an ipsilateral stimulus was applied the extensor response ceased to be steady and became rhythmic .
On then taking the ipsilateral stimulus off again the extensor response again became steady ( figs. 1 and 2 ) .
In a similar manner the steady maintained flexion evoked by the ipsilateral stimulus might become rhythmic on the application of the contralateral .
In some cases there was a contraction of both muscles and each of these was rhythmic .
The rhythmic movements were reciprocal\#151 ; that is to say that one rhythmic " beat " was in process of relaxation while the synchronous " beat " in the other muscle was in process of contraction ( fig. 3 ) .
These phenomena were also seen in muscles after the division of their proprioceptive afferent nerves .
In all these cases the rhythmic phenomenon occurs only when the strengths of stimuli bear a certain fixed relationship to one another .
If one stimulus is progressively increased and compounded with the fixed opposite stimulus a rhythm present gradually decreases in distinctness , and finally disappears .
The rate of the rhythmic movements usually lies between one and two beats per second .
* ' Quart .
Journ. of Exp. Physiol. , ' 1908 , vol. 1 , p. 67 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1909 , B , vol. 81 , p. 249 .
1912 .
] Rhythmic Activity of the Nervous System .
281 a b c d Fig. 1 .
Experiment 30 , 31.3.11.\#151 ; Ordinary decerebrate preparation , a series of four reactions .
In the first of these ( a ) a simple contralateral stimulus is applied between the marks A , B , of the signal line ( ordinates a , a ' ; 6 , b ' ) .
This evokes a simple reaction of maintained extensor contraction\#151 ; the crossed extension-reflex .
In the second of these ( 6 ) a simple ipsilateral stimulus ( signal X , Y\#151 ; ordinates , x ' ; y , y ) evokes a simple reaction of maintained flexor contraction\#151 ; the ipsilateral flexion-reflex* In the third of these ( c ) the contralateral stimulus is first applied ( A\#151 ; B ) and then evokes maintained extensor contraction .
During this stimulus an ipsilateral one is added ( X\#151 ; Y ) .
This gives a smaller flexor contraction than in " 6 , " and at the same time there is a rhythmic movement in the extensor tracing .
In the fourth record ( d ) both stimuli are applied at once , and the extensor movement\#151 ; the latency of which is increased\#151 ; is rhythmic from the first .
The strengths of the ipsilateral and of the contralateral stimuli remain the same throughout this series .
In all the figures the upper tracing is that of the flexor\#151 ; tibialis , and the lower that of the extensor\#151 ; gastrocnemius .
The upper signal line is that of contralateral stimuli , the lower that of ipsilateral .
The lowest line marks seconds and millimetre scales are reduced in proportion with the tracings .
Corresponding ordinates on the tracings mark the beginnings and terminations of the stimuli , and the rise of the levers denotes contraction of a muscle\#151 ; the fall relaxation .
VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; B. U Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Apr. li , Experiment 30 , 31.3.11.\#151 ; A continuation of the last figure .
Two reactions .
In the first of these ( e ) the contralateral stimulus is applied for some time ( about six seconds ) before the ipsilateral stimulus is added .
They then run together for about eight or nine seconda During this time the extensor movements\#151 ; which before were maintained\#151 ; are rhythmic .
In the second reaction ( / ) the ipsilateral stimulus is applied earlier , but is taken off again before the termination of the contralateral .
Here the extensor contraction is maintained before the commencement and after the termination of the ipsilateral stimulus , but when both stimuli run together it is rhythmic .
V. Other Forms of Rhythmic Movements .
The author has previously described movements of progression which occur under narcosis in the rabbit.* Similar movements have been seen in the guinea-pig under suitable circumstances .
These in their rhythm seem to bear the simple relationship of 1 : 4 to the rhythm of the " beats " of the scratching movements which occur under narcosis in the guinea-pig .
In the rabbit the relationship seems to be commonly 1:2 .
Similar movements also occur in the cat .
These are of additional interest , in that they may be observed in the same individuals from which records of the other movements of progression , provoked in other ways\#151 ; e.g. , reflex , central on cutting spinal cord , etc.\#151 ; were subsequently obtained .
* 'Quart .
Journ. of Exp. Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 151 .
a b c d f Fig. 3 .
Experiment 25,15.3.11.\#151 ; Ordinary decerebrate preparation , a series of six reactions .
In this series the second ( b)is a reaction of pure maintained extensor contraction in response to a simple contralateral stimulus .
The other reactions are all in response to compounded ipsilateral and contralateral stimuli .
The strength of the ipsilateral stimulus remains constant , but that of the contralateral is progressively increased .
It will be noticed , for instance , in the first reaction , that before the application of the contralateral stimulus the ipsilateral gives a reaction of pure maintained flexion .
In the first reaction ( a)\#151 ; as well as in the succeeding ones\#151 ; the application of the contralateral stimulus gives an augmentation of the flexor contraction .
This is remarkable , as that stimulus alone ( b ) gives extensor contraction .
This is soon followed ( in " a " ) by a contraction of the extensor , the latency of which is great .
At this point both muscles are contracting together , and a rhythmic movement is seen here in the flexor tracing .
A slighter rhythmic movement is present in the extensor tracing .
In the third reaction ( c ) the strength of the contralateral stimulus has been increased .
The rhythmic phenomenon in both muscles is more marked and a minute examination shows that it is reciprocal\#151 ; so that the contraction phase in one is accompanied by a relaxation phase in the other .
In the fourth reaction ( d ) a still stronger contralateral stimulus gives an increased flexor augmentation .
The rhythmic phenomenon is less ^ marked , and so too is the extensor contraction .
1:0 In the fifth reaction ( e ) a yet stronger contralateral stimulus gives a greater augmentation of the flexor contraction .
This is still less rhythmic .
In the extensor tracing there is first a marked relaxation and then a slight contraction .
In the final reaction ( / ) a stronger contralateral stimulus gives a greater augmentation of the flexor contraction .
This is now arrhythmic , and there is almost no evidence of extensor contraction\#151 ; only of relaxation .
( At the end of this series a pure contralateral stimulus gave a reaction of pure maintained extensor contraction as before .
) to t\#151 ; * K\gt ; \lt ; 5 s* \amp ; Co to 00 CO Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Apr. 11 j The rate of the rhythm of these movements is about one to two beats per second .
Under normal circumstances it has been observed to be as slow as 0*6 beat per second , and as fast as 2-5 beats per second .
In asphyxia the beats become markedly faster ( besides changing in other ways ) , and their rate may then rise to one of 3*3 beats per second , or even more .
The movements have been registered as they occurred in the isolated muscles as well as in the intact hind limbs .
They have then an appearance exactly similar to that of the rhythmic movements seen in some of the other types of progression examined .
Another form of progression is that obtained on electric stimulation of the cut surface of the spinal cord .
This also closely resembles the other forms in appearance and in rate of rhythm .
If the strength of the exciting stimulus he progressively increased the rhythmic reaction becomes less well marked and finally disappears , the reaction becoming one of pure maintained contraction .
YI .
Comparison of the Different Forms .
When one or more of these different forms of progression\#151 ; in narcosis ; on electrical stimulation of the spinal cord ; on rapid section of the lower thoracic spinal cord ; in response to simple peripheral stimulation , either as a direct response or as a " reboupd " ; and in response to compounded peripheral stimuli\#151 ; occur in the same individual , the general appearances of the different reactions are seen strikingly to resemble one another .
Even peculiarities present in one variety may be present in the other .
Thus , in one instance , the rhythmic rebounds ensuing on cessation of a reflex stimulus presented the peculiarity that the " beats " were arranged in groups of two , the second of which was smaller than the first .
The " beats " of the progression movements which were evoked subsequently on section of the spinal cord also presented this peculiarity .
VII .
The Conditioning of Rhythmic Movements .
These experiments seem to show that rhythmic movements similar to those of progression may be evoked on compounding two antagonistic excitabilitieS ) that is , two antagonistic states of excitement and inhibition in each centre .
They therefore seem to confirm the suggestion previously put forward that this is the method of the determination of progression .
In the first place the direct compounding of antagonistic excitations\#151 ; seen in the compounding of stimuli which evoke antagonistic reflexes\#151 ; may in certain cases produce the phenomenon .
Secondly , the application of a simple stimulus may also do so .
But in 1912 .
] Rhythmic Activity of the Nervous System .
these cases there is really a compounding of two antagonistic excitations\#151 ; for there must be a background of maintained extension , as in the decerebrate condition , or as in the experiments in the low spinal preparation in which the mechanical stimulation of the spinal cord produced the maintained extensor contraction .
Even in the case of the simple reflex there may be a compounding of two antagonistic excitations apart from any background present .
This may be the case if the afferent nerve can activate ( excite ) both centres ( extensor and flexor ) , although not with equal effect .
Such a condition may Occur if the nerve split in the spinal cord and one part goes to each centre to excite it .
Or it may occur if the afferent nerve stimulated in these experiments contains fibres some of which pass to one of the antagonistic centres and some to the other .
That such a double reciprocal innervation may occur even with a simple stimulus\#151 ; that is , a stimulus applied to a single afferent nerve\#151 ; seems to be shown by the fact that sometimes contraction of both muscles may occur during the process of the stimulus .
Another point which seems to lend support to this view is the occurrence of flexor and of extensor " rebound contraction after excitation .
" If rebound be a phenomenon associated with a state of inhibition it must seem that even in the efferent centre of the contracting muscle there is a certain factor of inhibition produced by the peripheral stimulus .
It may be stated here that the corresponding phenomenon " flexor ( or extensor ) rebound relaxation after inhibition , " which had not been observed when the above phenomenon was described , * has since been seen by the author in the case of the extensor muscle .
An ipsilateral stimulus which evoked flexor contraction , and along with that a well-marked extensor relaxation , at the cessation of its stimulation was followed by an additional extensor relaxation .
VIII .
Theories oj Rhythmic Activity .
It is not intended here to discuss these in detail .
It may be remarked , however , that certain evidence given in this paper seems to be directly opposed to three well-known theories .
In the first place the occurrence of relaxation in a rhythmic phenomenon may markedly precede the occurrence of the synchronous contraction of the antagonistic muscle .
This phenomenon would not be possible if the state of inhibition was conditioned by a phenomenon of " drainage " as suggested * ' Quart .
Journ. of Exp. Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 331 .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , B , vol. 84 , p. 308 .
Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Apr. 11 , by McDougall , * and a theory of rhythmic movement founded upon this conception can hardly be a correct one .
In the second place the intrinsic factor in the production can hardly be a metabolic one .
That is to say , that it cannot be intrinsically conditioned by the metabolic activity in the moto-neurones .
Were this the case , a rhythmic response would follow each expression of activity of the centres .
But this is not the case .
The application of a continuous stimulus to a single peripheral afferent nerve usually evokes a response in which the one muscle contracts continuously\#151 ; that is ( as regards such coarse rhythms as those of the scratch^ reflex or of progression ) , arrhythmically .
But two such stimuli , which evoke antagonistic activities when compounded together , may give a rhythmic response .
The intrinsic condition of the rhythmic phenomenon lies not in the efferent centres themselves , but in some property of their interdependence and inter-relationship .
The third theory to account for rhythmic activity is that which assumes a peripheral self-generated antagonistic stimulus .
That this is not a correct one is shown by the occurrence of the phenomenon after the de-afferentation of the muscles.f The theory suggested to account for rhythmic activity is the following : The cell-bodies and their processes of the efferent neurones of the antagonistic muscles form centres which mutually inhibit each other .
A stimulus whioh falls upon one will therefore through it inhibit the other .
But if this inhibition reduce the activity of the second centre , that will inhibit the first less , and so the process will proceed until there is a limit set to this " progressive augmentation of excitation .
" But if a stimulus fall more or less equally upon the two antagonistic centres\#151 ; or if two equal stimuli fall upon them\#151 ; that which is most activated will have its excitability increased by " progressive augmentation " up to a certain point .
The limit may be set by a process of inhibitory fatigue .
If this proceeds the balance will turn in the opposite direction , and there will be a progressive augmentation of excitation in the other centre until it too reaches its limit , when the process will set in in the other direction again .
In such a scheme there is , however , no explanation of the occurrence of inhibition before excitation in time .
It is not difficult to overcome the difficulty by postulating a pair of " interposed centres " between the afferent neurone and the efferent centres , and by supposing that these too mutually inhibit , and that , in addition , they inhibit the * ' Brain , ' vol. 26 , p. 163 .
+ 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , B , vol. 84 , p. 308 ; 'Quart .
Journ. of Exp. Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 331 .
1912 .
] Rhythmic Activity of the Nervous System .
287 crossed primary centres .
It will be observed that in this scheme no explanation of the nature of the inhibitory process is given .
Summary .
1 .
In the case of simple peripheral stimulation the reflex response is sometimes of a rhythmic character .
It then resembles the rhythmic movements of progression which sometimes occur in the cat during the state of narcosis .
2 .
The rhythmic reaction occurs sometimes during the application of the stimulus and sometimes at its cessation as a rhythmic rebound .
3 .
In the low spinal preparation the rhythmic reaction during stimulation is rare , It is seen almost alone after the production of an artificial state of maintained extension by mechanical stimulation of the spinal cord , and in response to flexion-producing stimuli .
Here it looks as if the reaction was conditioned by the pitting against one another of two opposite activities .
4 .
In the decerebrate preparation of the cat , rhythmic responses may appear in reaction to flexion-producing stimuli .
Here there is already , in the decerebrate rigidity , a state of maintained extension .
5 .
Both in the normal and in the de-afferented conditions of the low spinal and decerebrate preparations the compounding of reflex stimuli , which , taken singly , produce opposite reactions ( flexion and extension ) , sometimes results in a rhythmic reaction .
The rhythmic movements may occur in both muscles , and they are then reciprocally alternate .
6 .
These rhythmic responses occur , as a rule , only within a restricted range of strength of stimulation .
If either stimulus be increased in strength , the response during the compounding of the two stimuli ceases to be rhythmie .
7 .
As already published , a rhythmic response is obtainable on rapid division of the spinal cord .
The movements of this are exactly similar to the movements of progression .
There is first a phase of maintained flexion , and at the end a phase of maintained extension .
These , on the whole , are arrhythmic , and between them is a phase of " balance " in which the rhythmie movements are most perfect .
8 .
This previously led to the suggestion that the rhythmic phenomenon is conditioned by a balance of two equal and opposite activities , that is to say , by activities which produce in the same centre equal and opposite effects ( excitation and inhibition ) .
In the experiments here given there seems to be evidence that this suggestion is correct .
9 .
The various rhythmic movements\#151 ; during stimulation , rhythmic rebound , on compounding equal and opposite stimuli , on rapid division of the spinal cord , on unipolar electric stimulation of the cut surface of the 288 Rhythmic Activity of the Nervous System .
spinal cord , and the rhythmic movements which occur in narcosis\#151 ; are elosely similar , and seem to be instances of the rhythmic phenomenon of progression^ 10 .
It occasionally happens that a rhythmic response which more resembles the scratch-reflex is obtained on simple peripheral stimulation .
There both antagonistic muscles contract at the same time , and there occur reciprocally alternate " beats " as depressions from the plateaus of maintained contraction .
11 .
The explanation of the occurrence of rhythmic action seems best to be given on the assumption that the two antagonistic centres mutually inhibit each other , and that they are very nearly equally activated by the evoking stimuli .
Ip such a case there will be balanced against each other in each centre antagonistic forces of excitation and inhibition .
And in this balance and a phenomenon of fatigue and recuperation of the mutual inhibition is probably to be found the explanation of rhythmic activity .
12 .
The occurrence in the simple reflex o\#163 ; " rebound contraction after excitation , " described previously , and of the allied " rebound relaxation after inhibition , " here described for the first time , seems to show that even there there may be a double excitation of the two antagonistic centres .
13 .
Evidence given here and in other cases seems to cast doubt upon certain hypotheses of the nature of rhythmic activity :\#151 ; ( a)As the phenomenon of relaxation not infrequently occurs in time before the accompanying phenomenon of contraction in the antagonist it seems hardly possible that the " drainage " theory of inhibition is an adequate one , or that it can serve as a basis for a theory of rhythmic activity .
( b ) That the phenomenon is not conditioned intrinsically by the conditions of metabolic activity in the moto-neurones is shown by the experiments here given , in which two stimuli , when given separately , condition arrhythmic responses , but when compounded in appropriate strengths condition rhythmic responses .
This can only mean that the centres normally discharge arrhythmically\#151 ; as regards such coarse rhythms as that of progression\#151 ; and therefore that the rhythm is conditioned by some property of their interdependence and inter-relationship .
( c ) On the other hand , the present experiments demonstrate\#151 ; as the author has done previously\#151 ; that the rhythm is conditioned centrally and Hot by an " automatic " peripheral proprioceptive interference .
In addition to this the present experiments show that the rhythm on compounding of opposite stimuli may be obtained in the low spinal preparation .
This shows that the rhythm is conditioned at the lowest levels , and is not produced , for instance , by the evocation of the activity of a rhythmically discharging centre in the higher parts of the nervous system\#151 ; a possi- Reflex Rhythm Induced by Excitation and Inhibition .
289 bility that could not be overlooked if the phenomenon occurred alone in the decerebrate preparation .
14 .
A possible explanation of the conditioning of rhythmic activity is given in the present paper in a contracted form .
It has already been presented , along with a more detailed account of these experiments , to the University of Edinburgh .
Reflex Rhythm Induced by Concurrent Excitation and Inhibition .
By Alexander Forbes , M.A. , M.D. , Harvard .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received April 11 , \#151 ; Read May 16 , 1912 .
) ( From the Laboratories of Physiology in the Harvard Medical School and in the University of Liverpool .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE .
I. Introduction ... ... ... . .
, ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
289 II .
Method ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 290 III .
^Observations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
290 ( ?
) Oscillations resulting from Two Opposed Stimuli ... . .
291 ( ?
) Oscillations resulting from a Single Stimulus ... ... 294 IV .
Conclusion ... .
, ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 297 I. Introduction .
In a paper on " Antagonism between Reflex Inhibition and Reflex Excitation , " * Sherrington has shown that the combined effects of excitatory and inhibitory stimuli produce a response intermediate between those of the two stimuli acting singly .
Prof. Cannon , of Harvard , called my attention to certain minute oscillations which occur in Sherrington 's myograph line where it represents the response of muscle to the combined effects of the opposed stimuli , f and suggested that these might have an important significance .
They might mean that the nerve impulses in breaking through the opposition imposed by inhibition were subjected to a condition analogous to a stream of air passing out from a tube under water .
J It seemed possible that just as the air bubbles will be larger and more infrequent if the opening of the tube * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 80 , p. 565 .
+ Cf .
also ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 81 , p. 258 .
+ Of .
Rosenthal , ' Die Atembewegungen und ihre Beziehungen zum Nervus Vagus , ' Berlin , 1862 .

