II .
Joh. Hevelii COMETOGRAPHIA .
Printed at Dantzick A. 1668 .
in large Folio .
IN this curious and learned Volume the Illustrious Author hath with great industry endeavoured to explain the whole Nature of Comets , their Place , Parallaxes , Distances from the Earth , Beginning and End , the several Appearances of their Heads and Trains , together with their admirable motion ; And all this by means of one constant and fit Hypothesis , by which he judges that all the Phenomenon and Questions touching Comets , hitherto known , may be rationally and conveniently explained and demonstrated : All illustrated by 38 Schemes in Folio , engraven by the Author himself ; as the whole Book hath been Printed at his own charges .
To which is added both a Particular explication of the Comets , which appeared A. 1652 , 1661 , 1664 , 1665 ; and an History of all the Comets , recorded by Historians , Philosophers and Astronomers from the Noachical Deluge unto this day , enriched with the Authors Notes and Animadversions , and a general Table , representing , as it were , in one view , the most remarkable particulars observed in all Comets , viz. concerning the time of their first apparition , their duration , place , motion direct or retrograde , slow or swift ; the bigness , figure and colour of their Heads , and the bigness , shape and position of their Tails .
He begins his enumeration and History of the Comets from A. 1656 .
after the Creation of the World , or from A. 2292 .
before the Nativity of our Lord ; where the Reader will meet with a great and pleasant variety of the shapes , colors , brightness , magnitudes , &amp;c. of Comets , together with the various consequences , noted by Authors and Men of an Astrological and Divinatory Genius .
He reckons up about 250 Comets in number ; not as if there had not been many more , but because no more have been Registred in Ages , either negligent of , or less knowing in such matters .
He also takes notice of more Comets than one appearing at once , whereof there are to be found such Examples , that several times have been seen two , sometimes three , and twice four together ; which latter he observes to have happened A. 1509 .
and A. 1618 .
He notes some of the form of a Wheel , some of that of an Horn , others of the shape of a Sword , Dagger , Zable , Javelin , Hallebard , Dragon , Beard , Flaming Pillar , Timber-beam , Dish , Shield , Tube , Pyramid ; others with two or three Tails ; others , Trayn-less ; others so resplendent , as to enlighten the Night considerably , yea as bright as the Sun , obscuring all other Stars ; some round , some oval , some square ; others having their Train discontinued and interrupted in one or more places , as if it were absorbed by the Sky , and emerged again ; others having Tails like Peacocks ; others such , as extended themselves into the length , some of 30 , some of 40 , 45 , 60 , 70 , 100 degrees and above .
He takes notice , that before the Noble Tycho no Comet hath been exactly and fully observed or described ; and he gives a large account not only of the Comets of the said Tycho 's Observation , which appeared A. 1577 .
1590 , but also of that , which was seen A. 1607 , ( accurately described by Longomontanus and Kepler ) and of those of 1618 , especially that famous one of the same year , which at first was 71 Semi-diameters of the Earth distant from the Earth , but at last farther from it than the Sun , in regard it had towards the end a lesser Parallax , than he : besides that it had an extraordinary Train , sometimes 45 , 60 , 75 , yea 104 degr .
long ; as also that for some time it shone all night , and now and then seemed to break out into Lightning .
To all which he adds the Observations of the Comets seen A.1647 , 1652 , 1661 , 1664 , 1665 , of which the last four were diligently observed and are exactly described by himself .
As for the Theory , whereby the Author renders an Account of all the Phenomenon of Comets , he supposes , that they all move in a Straight Line , by which supposition ( first suggested by Kepler ) and no other , that he can imagine , he esteems that all the Appearances of them , how insoluble soever else they seem , may very easily be explicated , especially supposing the Sun in the Center of the Universe , and the Annual motion of the Earth ; though he suggests also a way of saving the said Rectilinear motion even without destroying the systeme of Ptolomy .
But yet he would not be understood so strictly in asserting that straight motion , but that Comets may more or less deviate from that straightness , both in appearance , and really ; the former arising from the various sight of them , and their various distance from the Earth and the Sun , and the Annual motion of the Earth ; the latter , from the matter of their Bodies and Nucleus 's ( as he calls the substance of their Head ) not increasing nor decreasing uniformly on all sides .
To which he adds the consideration of a motion impressed , and that of an Inclination of the Cometick Disk to the Sun , as two other Causes , why Comets may now and then , especially about the beginning and end of their appearance , somewhat digress from their straight course .
Where he alleges , that he hath much laboured to give an account of Comets by a Circular motion , but could not possibly satisfy himself in it , nor answer the Phenomenon of most , though perhaps that Hypothesis may serve to salve some of them .
But then , to explain that Trajectory rectilinear motion , he subjects the Comet of A. 1652 .
to a very rigid calculus , to show , how that line is to be delineated , and how that way is applicable to all other Comets .
Further , to render a Cause of this motion , he supposes , that , as all Celestial Bodies move about their Axes , their Atmosphere wheeling perpetually round about with them ; so the matter , which exhaleth from the Sun and the other Planets , not only issues out of them in a straight way but also , whil'st those Bodies , together with their Atmosphere , move round , turns const~ntly about with them , till it desert the said Atmosphere .
To which he adds , that the matter of those exhalations are of the like nature with our Terrestrial Vapors , in that they are apt to condense , and after a while to be dissolved , and to return again to their first principles .
Having supposed this , he assumes farther , that Bodies turned round , the longer they move , and the greater the Circle is , they move in , the greater impetus and vehemence they acquire , tending always to recede from the Center to the Circumference , and being separated and set at liberty from their vertiginous or circular motion , they continue to be moved ( as long as no stop intervenes , ) but no more in that circulary , but in a straight line , viz. in the Tangent of the Circle .
After this manner he concludes , That as soon as vapors exhale or are expelled out of a Celestial Body , whether it be the Sun or other Planets , into the Atmosphere encompassing it ( which that they do , he endeavours to prove ) they still acquire more and more force to move from the Center or the Planet to the Circumference ( by virtue of the swift circumrotation of the Atmosphere , which together with its Body or Planet is turned round about , ) till at last , being ejected out of their Circle into the free Sky , and more and more supplied with the accession of she like matter , they make up the Bodies of Comets , and then move in a straight line , obverting one side to the Sun , as Clouds do theirs to our Earth .
Having laid down this , he deduceth thence the explication of the Phenomenon , and Questions , hitherto observed and raised in and about Comets , viz. How they increase in bulk , and commonly with much quickness near the Sun ?
Why they are made up of several Kernels ?
Why not all Cometick matter is moved towards the same quarter of the Heavens ?
How it comes to pass , that at one and the same time more Comets than one are produced , and that they meet one another , and by their mutual concourse change one anothers motion ; or break into par s and so constitute several Stars ?
Why all Comets are not visible to us ?
Why there are more Comets in one Age , than another ?
Why they do not always move equal spaces in equal times ; nor always in a Line precisely straight , ( there being almost none such in Nature but sometimes with an Inclination of its Diske , so as to make a Parabola , yet never the Segment of a Circle ?
How they observe two motions , an External , and Internal or Natural ?
How one of the flat sides of the Cometick Diske respects the Sun , as the Magnetic Needle does the North-Pole ?
Why the Motion of Comets is swif~est , where the Sun-beams fall perpendicularly on it ?
Why the motion of a recent Cometick matter is made Spirally ?
Why that Spiral is not the same in all Comets ?
Why one Comet moves much swifter than another ?
Why the motion of one and the same Comet increases and decreases ?
How a new Comet issues out of its Atmosphere ?
That the densest Comets move swiftest .
That , though the motion of Comets be unequal , yet it is not irregular .
WhetherComets always are most vigorous in the middle of their way ?
When Comets describe a Semi-parabola only ?
Why Comets are almost never perceived by Us , when they first emerge out of their Atmosphere ?
That the motion of Comets hath a conformity with that of Ships .
That the Sun does the same in the deviation of Comets , what a Pilot or Ship-master doth by the means of Cables in the direction of Sailing .
That Comets , like Ships , describe sometimes an entire , sometimes a Semi-parabola .
That it appears by the inflexion of the Trajectory line , whether the way of the Comet be Circular or Elliptic or Parabolical .
Why this motion is rather Parabolical , than Hyperbolical ?
That the greatest deviation of Comets from the line of direction is scarce of two degrees ; though it is not altogether improbable , but that in some it may be a little greater , especially in those , that traverse through a much vaster space of the Heavens , than others , and are of a very long duration : That the matter and figure of a Comet , and the impetus at first impressed , make much to its motion : That Comets , which come out of larger Atmospheres , and from about their ~quator , and are of a compact body , are swiftest , and especially those , that have their rise from the Sun .
How the motion of the Spots of the Sun may be compared with that of Comets ?
How the greatest velocity and tardity of the motion of Comets may be limited ?
That there is a Libratory motion in Comets as well as in the Moon , &amp;c. The Curious are hereby advertised , that the Author hath thought fit to lodge with the Publisher a number of Copies both of this Cometography , and of all his former Works , viz. the Selenography , Mercurius in sole visus , Venus in sole visa , Epistclae de motu Libratorio Lunae , and the Prodromus and Mantissa concerning the two Comets of An. 1664 , and An. 1665 .
All which Books being ordered by the Author to be vended here , for an Exchange into the longest and best Telescope , that can be made by English Artists ; those that are desirous to be furnished with them , may please to address themselves to the Publisher , who is ready to give them further information herein .
II .
Renati Des Cartes EPISTOL~ ; Pars I. &amp; II .
Londini A. 1668 .
in 4o .
THough some few of these Letters were by the Author him self written in Latin , yet the far greater part of them having been by him written in French , they are now come abroad all Translated into Latin , for the benefit of those , that are unskilful in the other Language .
They contain very many Philosophical questions and matters , of all sorts , and an Explication of many difficulties , to be met with in the other Works of the Illustrious Author ; and were written to some of the most Eminent persons for knowledge and learning of this Age .
The intelligent Reader will find here an incredible and exceedingly delightful variety of Subjects , Geometrical , Arithmetical , Musical , Optical , Mechanical , Physiological , Medical , Metaphysical and Moral .
There is a Third part of the same Authors Letters yet remaining un-translated , which is like to follow very shortly , with some other Tracts , concerning Man , and the Union of the Rational Soul with the Body ; whereof the former was written by Descartes himself , the latter by the Ingenious D. Dela Forge , upon Cartesian Principles .
III .
Scrutinium Chymicum VITRIOLI , Auth. Joh. Georgio Trumphio , Saxone , Med. Licentiato .
Jenae 1667 .
Consisting but of 8 or 9 sheets in 4o .
THis Author endeavours in this small Tract to show the Nature , Difference , Choice , Qualities and Virtues , ( especially in Physic )of Vitriol , together with the various ways of preparing both dry and liquid Medicins out of that Mineral Juice .
The way of making Vitriol used at Goslar in Germany ( the Authors Native Country ) we shall thence extract and give here vetbatim , as follows ; Fit Fit &amp; Goslariense Vitriolum per cocturam .
Postquam enim terra vitiolata ex vicino monte Rammelo in officinas coctorias delata fuit , facto lixivio , in aheno plumbeo totum Vulcano negotium committunt .
Hic postquam fideliter suam navavit oper am , perque definitum coctioni tempus crepitantes subministravit flammas , liquor ille coctus exhauritur , inque cados ligneos insignis peripheriae &amp; altitudinis transmittitur .
Super haec vasa lignea adornantur , transirorum in morem , trabeculae perforatae .
His foraminibus adaptantur , &amp; firmantur calami arundinis , qui ad fundum usque vasis immittuntur .
Ubi itaque congelascit , post aliquod temporis intervallum adhaerent calamis chrystalli vitriolati , eximium praebentes oculis solamen , pelluciditate sua cum Sapphirina gemma decertantes .
Here he examins , why Vitriol will only be boiled in Leaden Vessels , and alleges divers opinions concerning it .
He also mentions an Experiment , which seems pretty , if true ; viz. that Vitriol , placed close to Amber , will lose its colour and pungency .
He takes notice , when he sets forth the praises and uses of this Mineral , that it alone may well make up the fourth part of an Apothecaries Shop , and cure the fourth part of Diseases .
A Paracelsian assertion !
He forgets not the Sympathetic Powder , made of this substance ; nor its virtue in stopping pertinacious Haemorrhagies ; alleging an Example of a Country-man , who having been sorely wounded in his Skull , so that the bleeding could not be stopped any other way , had by the application of this vitriolate powder present help , and soon after a perfect cure of his wound .
R. Vitrioli Goslar in Solis radiis ad album calcinati uncias VIII , pulv .
Gummi tragac .
purissimi I. unciam .
Misc .
invicem diligenter , ut fiat pulvis subtilissimus sympatheticus .
IV .
Francisci de le Boe Sylvii PRAXIS MEDIC~ Idea novae , Lib. I. Lugd. Batav .
in 12~ 1667 .
THis Treatise was not long since transmitted to the Publisher by the Author himself , and there is perhaps as yet never an other Exemplar of it in England ; which is therefore intimated here , that our Stationers may be invited to send for some Copies of it over , the Book seeming to be both very ingenious , and considerable .
There are in this first part of the Idea considered those Distempers , which respect the diseased Functions Natural , as in the second part he intends to consider those , which regard the diseased Animal Functions , and in the third , such as belong to those , that are appointed for Generation .
Of every Distemper he endeavours to discover its nature , causes , concomitants , remedies , of which last he delivers a great number of prescriptions , which he varies according to the various tempers and humors of Patients .
He intermixes abundance of Philosophical Speculations and Remarkes , among which are some concerning Fermentation ; the noxiousness of all such things , as either destroy or dull the Acid spirit of the Body in the work of Nutrition ; the dominion of the three Humors in the Body of Animals , viz the Gall , the Pancreatic juice , and the Saliva , and their Mixture , either immediate or mediate , with the Blood returning to the Heart ; as also their great influence , when they are vitiated , in disturbing the Effervescence of the Blood , as well as their power and virtue , when they are tempered together in a due proportion , to cause a regular motion in the blood , and to convert meat into good nourishment : Farther , about the Change of the Chyle into Blood , and where that change is begun , where advanced , and where perfected : About the alteration made in the whole body of Animals by the Spermatick Aura , as to their Voice , fatness , sweetness , &amp;c. About Respiration , and how that may cease for a while in Syncope 's and Hypochondriacal Suffocations without death ; about Sneezing , the Hickocke , Yawning , Pandiculation , and their Causes : The alteration , which the blood of the left Ventricle receives in the Lungs by the inspired Air , and the Saliva , or some other glandulous liquor : Of the Pulse ; of the Plenty of Animal Spirits and its cause ; of the return of Feverish fits by intervals , together with the cause thereof , &amp;c.

