]\gt ; On ttering of the from Uranium by Matter .
By J. A. CROWTHER , , St. John 's College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received and Read December 12 , 1907 .
) Introduction .
The absorption of the -rays from radio-active substances during their passage through matter has , at various times , attracted a considerable amount of attentionl from various ysicists .
Strntt , * for example , made some observations on the absorption of the from radium by thi sheets of various substances , and , later , performed similar experiments , using the -rays from uranium .
Subsequently the present author made an nrvey of the subject by the absorp- tion of the -rays from uranium for nearly all the procurable elements , and numerous compounds .
The results obtained may be briefly summarised as follows:\mdash ; ( i ) The absorption for a given substance may be represented by the equation where is the initial intensity of the -radiation , I the intensity after traversing a plate of material of thickness , and the coefficient of absorption for the substance .
( ii ) If is the density of bsorbing substance , then for the chemical elements is a periodic function of the atomic weight , the periods corresponding strictly to those of the chemical pel.iodic classification .
( iii ) The value of the ratio is an additive atomic property , depending only on the nature of the atom , and not upon its state of chemical combination .
The methods employed in all the above experiments were substantially the same .
A uniform layer of the radio-active substance was prepared , and covered with a sufficient thickness of aluminium foil to cut off completely all the -radiation .
Sheets of the different substances of different thicknesses were then placed directly over the plate of radio-active material , and the * Strutt , ' Nature , ' vol. 61 , p. 539 , 1900 .
erford , ' Radio-activity , ' p. 114 , 1904 .
Crowther , ' Phil. Mag October , 1906 , p. 379 .
lllC Cb ' Ullb ' : llb Clbb : amount by which the ionisation in an ionisation chamber placed directly above was reduced was measured in some suitable The incident rays thus enter the absorbing plate over an entire solid angle of , while the emergent rays are measured ovel an which depended upon the shape and position of the ionisation chamber , but which was always .
In the experiments of all the rays , over the whole solid angle of , entered the ionisation chamber .
In those of the present author the angle included amounted about .
The results obtained in the two cases were practically identical .
This method may be correctly said to measure the absorption of the -rays by the absorbing plate , as it does in fact measure the energy lost by the stream of -corpuscles in passing through it , under the conditions of the experiment , assuming that the ionisation produced is a measul.e of the energy of the rays .
If the rays alter appreciably in velocity in matter , this latter assumption is not correct , as the power of the rays depends upon their velocity as well as upon their energy .
Schmidt , *however , wIlo has very recently some direct experiments upon this point , was unable to detect any alterat , ion in the velocity of the -rays after through thin sheet of aluminium , and his experiments are supported by those of Lenard , who obtained a similar for cathode rays .
In addition to the absorption as ured by these methods , there is another quantity of importance in the theory of the of -rays through matter , namely , the of the primary beam during its passage through the substance .
The -corpuscles of the incident beam , owing to their velocity , are able to penetrate the atom , and will thus come into collision with the negative electrons contained in it .
At each collision the moving corpuscle will be more or less detlected from its original path , the amount depending upon its velocity and its distance from the deflecting electron .
In this way , an incident beam , originally parallel , will become scattered or diffused , during its passage through matter .
Some of the incident -corpuscles may , in fact , after one or more collisions , be deflected through more than a , and , on the side of the plate at which they entered , make their appearance as return radiation .
The scattering may be defined and measured as follows:\mdash ; Let ABCD ( .
1 ) 1oe a narrow parallel of -rays , and let be the intensity of -radiation crossing the section CD of the pencil parallel to the beam .
Suppose , now , a thin sheet of the substance is inserted in the path of the beam , at .
Owing to the collisions of he * ' Physik .
, June 1 , 1907 .
Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Dec. -corpuscles in the rays with the corpuscles in the absorbing medium , the rays will be more or less scattered and bent away from their original direction .
Let I represent the intensity of the radiation parallel to the original beam passing through the same area , after the insertion of the absorbing plate at .
Then will a measure of the amount of scattering undergone by the incident beam its passage through the absorbing plate .
An optical may make the idea somewhat clearer .
Suppose ABCD is a parallel beam of , and a plate of ground glass is inserted at in the place of the absorbing medium .
The ground glass will diffuse or scatter the rays , and the ratio of the intensity of the light passing through the small cross section CD of the beam , to the original intensity of the beam at , will give a measure of the amount of scattering produced by the glass .
If , however , instead of measuring the amount of passing through the small area , we measured the total of passing out through the upper face of the plate , we should get a measure of the amount of light absorbed in the glass , and the two results would be in general very different .
The former corresponds to what we have called the " " scattering\ldquo ; of the -rays , the latter to the orption McClelland , *using the -rays from radium , has very recently measured the absorption of these rays , by letting a nearly parallel beam fall upon a metal plate at normal incidence and measuring the whole amount of radiation which emerges the further side of the plate .
The results obtained are very nearly the same as obtained by the earlier methods .
As the whole of emergent rays were measured , this method also measures the absorption and not the scattering of the rays .
Bxperimentd .
It was decided , therefore , to undertake a series of measurements on the scattering of the -rays by the method outlined above .
It is , of course , impossible to obtain an absolutely parallel beam of -rays .
If , however , the radio-active material forms a layer at AB ( fig. 1 ) we can , by limiting the rays by a metal tube ABXY , sufficiently thick-walled to be impenetrable to -rays , obtain an approximation to our theoretical beam , which becomes * McClelland , ' Roy .
Dublin Soc. Trans vol. 9 , part , 1907 .
1907 .
] Scattering the -rays from Uranium by Matter .
more nearly exact as we increase the ratio of the length ( AX ) to the diameter .
In the actual experiments the diameter was rather less than cm .
; the length AX was 3 cm .
, and the greatest possible divergence from the normal was thus about .
The rays from the absorbing plate were limited by an exactly similar tube , so that the rays from the plate into the ionisation chamber over exactly the same angle as that at which the primary beam fell upon the plate .
Uranium was chosen as the source of -radiation .
The intense activity of radium would have rendered it extremely useful for the purposes of the present experiments , and would have enabled the measurements to have been made with the greatest ease .
Unfortunately , the -rays from radium are extremely complex , consisting of rays ranging in velocity from nearly the velocity of light to less than one-tenth of that amount .
As the absorption val.ies very rapidly with the velocity of the rays , it becomes a matter of reat difficulty , and much uncel.tainty , to interpret the results obtained with such a eneous beam .
Uranium , on the other hand , gives a homogeneous beam of -rays , with a velocity , according to the measurements of Becquerel , of about cm .
per second , or about 55 per cent. of the velocity of Thus the results obtained by the use of uranium rays correspond to -corpuscles moving with a definite speed , and are therefore theoretically much more simple than the measurements obtained from the radium rays .
Unfortunately , the amount of racliation given off by uranium is by no means large , and the experimental difliculties involved in its use were therefore considerable .
The theoretical adyantages of a eneous beam of rays are so great , however , that it was decided to employ uranium , and to overcome the smallness of the effects to be measured by increased experimental care .
The amount of radiation entering the ionisation chamber could be increased in two ways : ( 1 ) By using a large number of tubes fastened side by side , to limit the beam , instead of a single tube , as in the theory .
( 2 ) By using uranium X , the active -ray constituent of uranium , as the source of radiation .
In ordinary uranium salts , in radio-active equilibrium , a very large proportion of the -rays by the uranium X are absorbed by the rest of the uranium , which , as it emits only -radiation , may be regarded for our purposes as inactive .
By removing this inactive material , we can greatly reduce the amount of absorption taking place in the radio-active layer , and thus increase the amount of radiation which leaves it .
Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Dec. 12 , Both these methods were employed .
The grid ) was constructed as follows .
A large number of brass tubes , each cm .
in diameter and 6 cm .
, were soldered together side by side , to form a buudle of parallel tubes , about 6 cm .
in diameter .
This bundle was then sawn in half , FIG. 2 .
at right angles to its length , thus giving two exactly similar grids .
These were then mounted , the one over the other , as shown in fig. 2 , in exact register , so that each tube in the upper grid was an exact prolongation of one in the lower , a space of .
being left between the two grids for the insertion of the sheets of absorbing material .
With this arrangement the 190 Scattering of the -rays Uramum by Matter .
191 maximum angle at which the rays could fall upon the absorbin substance , or at which the rays could leave the substance and enter the ionisation chamber above , was about with the normal .
As a measure of the difficulties of making measurements by this method it may be mentioned that the insertion of these grids between the layer of radio-active substance and the ionisation chamber cut down the amount of radiation entering the latter to less than 5 per cent. of its original value .
Various methods were tried for the preparation of uranium from the uranium compound , Levin 's method of a solution of uranium nitrate with animal charcoal , and .
the latter after and washing , and Schlundt and Moore 's 1nethod* of from various organic solvents by means of ferric hydl.ate .
The method which gave the most satisfactory results in my hands was an extension of the process by which Sir W. Crookes first isolated the substance .
A considerable quantity ( about lb. ) of uranium nitrate crystals was dissolved in ether , in a stoppered separating funnel , and the solution yell shaken .
On allowing to stand , the liquid separates into layers , aqueous layer and an upper ) layer .
The former contains a very large proportion of the uranimn X , and is carefully run off into a dish .
About 20 .
or so of water are added to the ethereal solution and well shaken up with it to ensure complete mixing .
The mixture is then allowed to stand , and the aqueous solution settles to the bottom and is drawn off as before .
This ocess was repeated a third time .
In order to check the progress of the separation , each successive washing evaporated and its -ray activity tested .
It was found that after three extractions with water the uranium nitrate remaining behind in the ethereal solution was practically inactive as far as -radiation concerned .
The three aqueous extracts were mixed together and cvaporated down with a few drops of nitric acid until crystallisation occurred .
These crystals were redissolved in a small quantity of ether , the solution obtained placed in small separating funnel , and treated in ex ctly the same as the solution .
The aqueous extracts were evaporated down and the nitrate converted into red oxide by heating over a bunsen flame .
In this way from a large quantity of uranium nitrate there was finally obtained a few grammes of substance nearly the whole of the -ray activity of the uranium nitrate .
The powdered oxide was spread in a uniform layer over the bottom of a aluminium tray ( li , fig. 2 ) the exact diameter of the lower 'Phil .
Mag October , 1906 , p. 377 .
Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Dec. 12 , and covered with a lid of aluminium foil 0 mm. thick , in order to exclude any -radiation .
By repeating the process the uranium X might have been obtained in a still purer form .
As , however , the amount of oxide after the second purification was only just sufficient to form a thin uniform layer over the bottom of the aluminium tray , it was not considered desirable to carry the process any further .
Even when increased in this way the amount of radiation coming through the two grids was so small that special deyices had to be employed to measure it with any degree of accuracy .
The chief difficulty in the measurement of small amounts of -radiation lies not so much , perhaps , in the smallness of the ionisation produced , as in the fact that this ionisation is comparable in amount with the spontaneous .
ionisation in the ionisation chamber employed .
A Wilson inclined electroscope , when carefully adjusted , is an extraordinarily delicate instrument for the detection and measurement of very small currents , and can be made sufficiently sensitive to measure the spontaneous ionisation in a closed vessel of , say , 1 litre capacity to within a few per cent. with ease .
However , on making such measurements , I have always found it difficult to get consistent results .
Successive readings will often difler by 20 per cent. .
or even more in smaller vessels , although to all appearances the apparatus is working perfectly .
Whether this effect is really due to actual variations in the ionisation within the chamber , or whether it is due to some irregularities in the working of the apparatus for very small currents , it is always presentThe discrepancies between the different readings become less and less noticeable as the spontaneous ionisationl becomes a less and less important .
part of the whole .
When , however , as in the present experiments , the spontaneous ionisation is a very appreciable fraction of the total ionisation to be measured , they are a source of considerable difficulty and a possible cause of error .
It was decided , therefore , to employ a compensation method of measurement , and the result was most satisfactory .
Not only was greater sensitiveness attained , but the above trouble was almost completely eliminated .
The two chambers were constructed of exactly the same size , shape , and materials , and the spontaneous ionisation in the two was very nearly the same .
Moreover , the small difference between the ionisatffin in the two vessels remained practically constant ( except for a small diurnal variation , .
studied recently by Campbell and Wood , *which was just perceptible ) , and balances could be obtained with accuracy and regularity .
has described a compensation method which depends upon the * Phil. Mag February , 1907 .
'Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc vol. 13 , p. 132 .
1907 .
] Scattering of the -rays from Uranium by Matter .
variation produced in the current through a vessel containing uranium oxide , when the pressure in it is altered .
This method is very suitable , when used , as by Campbell , for the measurement of small variations in a fairly large ionisation current .
It is , however , only sensitive over a small range .
It was thus unsuitable for the present experiment .
The principle finally adopted was as follows .
A layer of uranium oxide was formed , about 2 mm. in thickness , and covered with sufficient aluminium foil to cut off the -rays .
This was placed beneath a shutter , sufficiently thick to stop all the -radiation .
The amount of radiation from the uranium layer which entered an ionisation chamber placed above could be regulated by opening or closing the shutter so as to expose a greater or smaller area of the radiating layer .
This method was found to be not only easy to work , but also very accurate .
It may be worth while , therefore , to describe the apparatus more fully .
It is shown in section in fig. 2 .
are the pair of grids which have been already described .
uranium X forms a thin layer over the bottom of the shallow aluminiu11 tray , and is covered with a lid of aluminium foil , to cut off all -raya The sheets of absorbing substance are inserted at .
The rays pass upwards through into the ionisation chamber B. two cylindrical chambers exactly the same construction .
They are closed at the bottom with thin alunlinitlm foil .
The central wire electrodes pass out through earthed uard r , from which they are insulated by sulphur .
The guard rings themselves are insulated from the rest of the chamber , which is kept to a sufficiently high potential to produce saturation in the ionisation current , by ebonite stoppers , , S. is the ionisation chamber of the compensator ; the shutter arrangement is shown below .
is the utter itself , constructed of brass of sufficient thickness to cut off all the -rays from the layer of uranium oxide placed )elow .
This layer was contained in a shallow depression / , 2 mm. deep , in a brass plate and covered with sufficient aluminium foil to cut off all -radiation .
The shutter could be moved backwards and forwards across the layer , by means of the screw .
The screw was accurately cut with nlnl .
pitch , and the wheel was graduated into 100 divisions .
The shutter could therefore be set , if necessary , to mm. The shutter was screwed on to an insulating ring of ebonite , to which the ionisation chamber was also idly attached by means of a projecting flange The ionisation in , when the shutter was open to its full extent , was many times the maximum ionisation to be measured in B. The radiation VOL. LXXX.\mdash ; A. 194 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Dec. 12 , from the uranium oxide layer was therefore cut down by aluminium screens , until the radiation in was equal to in , when the shutter was open to a suitable extent , say about 3 cm .
The compensator was , of course , carefully calibrated , by measuring the actual rate of leak through the chamber , with the shutter open to different .
The rate of leak was , in fact , found to be very nearly proportional to the area of uranium oxide exposed .
It seemed clear , from the construction of the compensator , that the shape of the calibration curve would depend only upon the arrangement of the shutter , and would be independent of the radiating power of the layer of uranium oxide below .
It should thus have the same shape , whether the layer was covered by only thin foil , or whether it was screened by a considerable thickness of aluminium .
This was found experimentally to be the case .
This fact added greatly to the accuracy attainable with the compensator , as the latter could thus be calibrated , using the full amount of -radiation from the uranium oxide layer ( a process which , on account of the amount of ionisation produced , was both easy and accurate ) and the adiatio could then be screened down to an amount suitable for the purposes of the experiment .
Had it been necessary to calibrate the compensator , under the actual conditions under which it was used , those same difficulties would have arisen in the calibration curve which it was the object of the compensation method to ayoid .
The two ionisation chambers were kept charged to equal , and opposite , potentials , by means of a cabinet of LQmall storage cells , : 400 volts were found amply sufficient to produce saturation .
The electrodes of the two ionisation chambers were connected to the same Wilson electroscope , by wires dipping into a metal cup containing calcium chloride solution , connected to the gold leaf system .
The system could be earthed , charged to any required potential , or left insulated by means of the key , dipping into the cup , which could be operated from a distance .
solution of calcium chloride has been found , in practice , to be preferable to mercury in electroscope koys , as the mercury very rapidly becomes contaminated , and , when not perfectly clean , is very apt to cause a " " kick or displacement of ths gold leaf , on breaking contact .
Calcium chloride solution appears to be quite free from this objectionable property .
The electroscope , of the ordinary Wilson inclined type , was made as sensitive as possible , by a careful adjustment of the potential of the plate , the position of the point of suspension of the gold leaf , and the tilt of the , instrument .
These electroscopes are somewhat difficult to adjust to sensi1907 .
] Scattering of the Uranium by Matter .
tiveness , but when once the proper adjustments have beeu made , they form very delicate detectors of small ionisation currents .
The particular electroscope used in these experiments gave a deflection of from 5 to 10 divisions for 1/ 50 volt .
The capacity of the electroscope and the two electrodes was less than 10 cm .
, and , using the null method , a movement of the leaf of one division in 10 minutes could be easily detected .
It follows , therefore , that a difference in the currents through the two cbambers of about 5 ampere would produce a noticeable disturbance in the balance .
It was in practice possible to obtain a balance between the two chambers to an accuracy of about 1 or 2 per cent. , except in the case of the thicker sheets , where the radiation was very much reduced .
The method of making an observation was as follows .
The sheet whose scattering power was to be measured was placed at yeen the grids , and the shutter was opened out , until , when the system was insulated , there was no appreciable movement of the gold leaf in 10 minutes .
The ionisations in the two chambers are then equal and the reading of the shutter is obtained from the scale and the aduated wheel The sheet was then removed from and a balance obtained .
Finally , a thick sheet of lead , sufficient to stop all the -rays , was placed at and the adjustment .
The spontaneous ionisation in was slightly freater than in , and hence a balance could be obtained by slightly opening the shutter .
The elative amounts of ionisation corresponding to each of these three shutter could then be read off on the calibration curve .
The final , giving the small excess of the spontaneous ionisation in over that in , was subtracted from each of the first two readings .
The results when thus corrected gave the relative amounts of radiation entering the chamber , with and without the .
sheet at .
The ratio , where I is the of radiation when the absorbing sheet is at , and the intensity of radiation when there no substance between the grids , is plotted against the thickness of the sheet .
The curves thus obtained are given in Various thicknesses of material were used in every case .
It was found that the falling off in the intensity of the radiation was much more iu this method than in the case of the measurements of the absorption .
In fact , the results showed that the scattering of the incident beam was practically complete after passing through a thickness of about 1/ 10 .
of aluminium , and thus very thin foil had to be used for the measurements .
The number of substances which could be utilised , therefore , was strictly limited .
The thickness of any particular sheet of the material was determined by Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Dec. 12 , finding the weight of a known area of it .
The thickness is then given by the formula , where is the weight of a sheet of area , and is the density of the substance .
In this way , using an accurate balance , the thickness of even the thinnest leaf could be determined with considerable accuracy .
Mass FIG. 3 .
It was thought just possible that the shape of the curves obtained might be due to the presence in the uranium rays of some very soft radiation .
If the -rays used contained any considerable quantity of very soft radiation , tlJe absorption curve would very much resemble the curves which were actually obtained .
It would , in fact , be the sum of two exponential curves , one of which had a considerably higher index than the other .
If this was the cause , however , we should be able to eliminate the preliminary rapid decrease by placing over the uranium X , but underneath the bottom grid , a thickness of foil sutficienb to cut off all the softer rays .
We can see from the curve for aluminium that , if the rapid decrease is due to the presence of soft rays , these rays must be all absorbed in a thickness of about mm. of aluminium .
Accordingly a sheet of aluminium , mm. thick , was inserted between the uranium X and the bottom grid 1907 .
] Scattering of the -rays from Uran , ium by Watter .
and the experiments repeated .
It was found that the insertion of this thickness of aluminium did not make the slightest difference to the results obtained .
The curves bad exactly the same shape , whether the aluminium plate was present below the grid or not .
It is thus clear that the results are not due to any want of homogeneity in the -radiation employed .
One possible source of error has yet to be mentioned , and is connected with the use of the grids .
The -rays which come from the radio-active layer and fall upon the walls of the tubes of which the rids are composed produce a certain amount of secondary radiation , some of which may fall upon the plate at at a greater angle than that of the primary beam .
This would tend to diffuse the beam falling upon and thus cause departure from the simple theory .
unable to discover any method of eliminating this effect , without at the same time reducing the radiation to such an extent as to be quite unmeasurable .
The effect is , however , in all probability extremely small .
The total return radiation from a plate exposed to uranium -rays has been shown by the author*to be only a few per cent. of the primary beam for copper , of which the tubes were made .
From the nature of the case , only a small fraction of this call fall upon the plate at ; while a large proportion of the secondary radiation which does fall upon the plate does so at an angle not greater than that of the primary beam .
The effec .
G , therefore , cannot be large .
It was possible also that the air in the tubes composing the grid have some similar effect in scattering the incident beam .
In order to investigate these effects , a second pair rids was constructed , as different as possible in these respects from the original rids .
In order to reduce the secondary radiation to a minimum , aluminium was used as the material of the grids .
Two aluminium plates , each cm .
thick , were fastened together by screws , and a large number of holes , each .
in diameter , were drilled through the two plates .
The plates were then separated by about 3 mm. to allow of the introduction of the metal sheets between them .
In this way the total length of the rids was reduced from cm .
in the case of the first pair to cm .
, while at the same time the secondary radiation from the walls was considerably reduced by aluminium for copper as the material of the grid .
The angle of the was somewhat greater than that of the original , amounting to about It will thus be seen that the second grids differed in every possible way from the first .
The results obtained with the second grid are iven in 'fable .
It will be seen that they very closely with the results obtained with the first grids .
* Crowther , ' Phil. Mag October , , p. 391 .
Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Dec. 12 , The difference between the two sets of values for , the coefficient of scattering , does not exceed about 10 per cent. Considering the difficulties of the experiment , and the fact that neither of the grids gives a truly parallel pencil of rays , the agreement is quite satisfactory .
We may fairly assume , therefore , that the results obtained are not due to any peculiarities in the construction or materials of the grid .
Results .
Experiments have been made on various thicknesses mica , aluminium , copper , silver , and gold .
It was found that in order to obtain the desired measurements it was necessary to use very thin foil or leaf .
In gold , for example , the scattering of the -rays was found to be practically complete after passing through a thickness of only cm .
The number of substances which could be investigated was therefore very limited .
Attempts were made to obtain sufficiently thin sheets of other metals , but without success .
The results obtained are plotted in fig. 3 .
The ordinates give the values of the ratio , where I is the intensity of the -radiation entering the ionisation chamber after passing through a thickness of material , and the initial intensity of the radiation in the absence of the absorbing plate .
In order conveniently to represent all the curves on the same diagram , the abscissae represent not the thickness directly , but the corresponding mass per unit area , of the absorbing foil .
In order to obtain the thickness , it is merely necessary to divide these values by the density of the particular stance to which they refer .
The curve for mica is not given , as it is almost indistinguishable from the curve for aluminium .
All the curves are similar in type .
We will consider the curve for aluminium as typical of the rest .
On looking at the curve ( fig. 3 ) it will be seen that it consists of two portions .
In the first part , the curve descends very steeply , showing that the amount of radiation entering the ionisation chamber falls off at first very rapidly as the thickness of the foil is increased .
After a certain thickness is reached , however , this effect rapidly dies away , and the curve finally assumes a much more gentle slope .
It can easily be shown , by plotting the logarithm of the ratio against the corresponding thickness , that the portion of the curve is exponential in form and may be represented by the equation where is the thickness of material traversed by the -rays , and and are constants .
1907 .
] of the -rays from by On the values of these constants for the curve , it is found that the coefficient is approximately the same as the " " coefficient of absorpbion as measured by the earlier methods .
It seems clear , therefore , that this final portion of the curve represents a true absorption of the of the rays .
The earlier , and much steeper portions of the CUlVe , equally clearly due to some other cause , and represent , according to the theory of this experiment , the " " scattering\ldquo ; of the rays .
It is evident from the shape of the ctlrve that the " " scattering\ldquo ; takes place in a much less thickness of foil than the absorption .
In order to the way in which it varies with the thickness , it is necessary to co1Tect the experime1ltal values for the loss of intensity due to the absorption of the of the rays in through the particular thickness of foil used .
The amount of this absorption can easily be calculated from the later exponential portion of the curve , assuming that the absorption obeys this exponential law for the thinner sheets also .
The scattering effect for an incident pencil of rays of given intensity I and for a tcriven substance , is a function only of the thickness of material passed through by the rays .
Thus if I ' is the intensity of the transmitted beam which vould enter the ionisation chamber in the absence of loss due to absorption of energy , and considering only the loss due to the scattering , we should have I ' , where represents some function , at present undetermined , of the thickness of material passed by the rays .
The intensity of the transmitted beam I ' in the absence of any loss due to scattering of the rays , and considering only the absorption of energy , is , as shown above , represented by the equation I ' The actual experimental curve in the presence of both and absorption is , therefore , given by the equation , where I represents the intensity of the beam transmitted through the apparatus , when both the scattering and the absorption of the rays are considered .
Thus representing the experimental value of taken from the curve by we have , or Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Dec. 12 , But is known , from the final exponential portion of the curve , and hence we can easily find the values of for any given value of , from a table of exponentials .
Dividing the values of from the curve , by the values of the exponential so obtained , we can find the value of for different values of Table I.\mdash ; Aluminium .
The results of these operations are given in full in Table I for the case of aluminium ; the value of for alumimultl , as obtained from the last portion of the curve , The first column ives the thickness of the absorbing foil in centimetres ; I , he second column the ondinrr e values of .
The third column gives the values of for the thicknesses given in the first column , being the coefficient of absorption calculated from the final portions of the curve .
The fourth column gives the values of , and thus , on the previous theory , shows the true scattering effect of the foil .
corrected for the loss due to the absorption of the rays .
It will } ) seen that the value of the ratio , where I ' has the same significance as before , diminishes rapidly at first , but finally , after passing through a thickness of about cm .
, becomes constant at about , and is not further diminished by through additional thicknesses of the foil .
The scattering , in fact , becomes complete .
The magnitude of his constant , which we will call , has no theoretical importance , its value depending upon the construction of apparatus .
If it were possible to work with an infinitely narrow , and accurately parallel , pencil of -rays , the value of the ratio would decrease practically to zero .
Owing to the necessities of experiment , the construction of the grid allows the rays to emerge into the ionisation chamber , over a finite angle , and hence a finite , 1907 .
] Scattering of the from Uranium by but constant , proportion of the rays enter the ionisation chamber , even when the scattering is complete .
The larger the angle over which the rays can emerge into the ionisation chamber , the larger will be the value of C. Thus in the case of the aluulinium grids the value of is nearly twice as great as in the case of the first rrid of copper tubes .
In order to obtain an approximate idea of the way in which the scattering would vary , in the absence of the effects due to the finite angle of the grid , we may subtract the constant final value ( which yives the intensity of the radiation which would enter the ionisation chamber when the rays are completely scattered , the absence of any absorption of the rays ) from each of the values of in the table .
The results so obtained are given in the fifth column of Table I. If the logarithms of these numbers are plotted against the corresponding thicknesses , as given in the first column of the table , the resulting curve is very approximately a straight line .
The curves thus obtained for the substances are given in fig. 4 .
It will be seen that in every case we approximately a straight line .
It appears , therefore , that the scattering , like the absorption , is approximately an exponential function of the thickness , and that it may be expressed by the equation I ' is the initial intensity of the -radiation passing a small cross section of a parallel pencil of the rays , I ' is the intensity of the radiation passing the same small cross section , when a sheet metal of thickness is interposed in the path of the beam ( corrections been made for the diminution in the radiation due to the absorption of energy ) ; and is a constant which we may , by analogy , call the " " of scatte " " of the rays for the given metal .
The departures of the curve from the exponential are possibly somewhat greater than the probable erl.ors of the .
They are , however , not greater than might be accounted for by the inevitable departures of the apparatus from the theoretical form .
Assuming that the scattering follows this exponential law , and taking the absorption into account , it is easy to show that the experimental curves should be represented by the equation For we have from the above , which , since where , leads directly to the above expression .
The values of and for aluminium have already been obtained , and can Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Dec. readily be calculated from the last column of Table I. It is about 270 .
By substituting these values in equation 2 , we can calculate the values of for different thicknesses of aluminium .
A comparison of the values so Mass per aoea FIG. 4 .
calculated , with the actual experimental values , is given in Table II , and affords a test of the accuracy with which the eory fits the experimental results .
It will be seen that the divergence does not amount at most to more than a few per cent. of the initial radiation .
Considering the departures of the apparatus from the theoretical form , and the difficulties of the experiment , the agreement is very satisfactory .
So far have been considering the case of aluminium .
The curves for the other substances investigated are , however , exactly the same in form , with different constants , and may be resolved into the sum of two exponential curves in exactly the way as the curve for aluminium .
It will not be necessary , therefore , to describe them in further detail .
The 1907 .
] Scattering of the Uranium by .
203 Table Aluminium .
values of , and , for the different substances investigated are given in Table III .
It may be mentioned that the reement in all cases was at least as good as in that of aluminium .
Table III .
Table III gives the values of the coefficients and as calculated from the experimental results ; and also the of , where is the density of the absorbing medium .
A further column gives the value of It will be seen at once that is much greater than in general about 13 times as great , the ratio being very nearly the same for all substances .
As the determinations of have to be made from the last observations on the curve where the radiation is very much reduced , and the proportional experimental error , , considerably increased , the rences do not amount to much more than the probable error of experiment .
In this case we should expect to variations the value of with atomic weight similar to those obtained for the ratio , that is to say , it should be a periodic function of the atomic weight .
Sufficient elements have not been measured to test this very thoroughly .
It may be pointed out that copper , silver , and gold , which to the same chemical group , give nearly the same value for the ratio 204 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Dec. 12 , It may be noticed in passing that the values given by this method for the coefficient of absorption are somewhat higher than those given by the earlier methods .
It was shown in a former paper*that for the heavier elements , such as silver and gold , the absorption in thin sheets was greater than would be expected from the final exponential value calculated from sheets of greater thickness .
As the foil used in these experiments was much thinner than that employed in the previous measurements , it seems possible that had it been possible to measure thicker sheets by the present method the values obtained for in the two cases might have been more nearly equal .
Table \mdash ; Aluminium Plate Grids .
It will be noticed , howevel\ldquo ; that the values obtained for with the aluminium grid are inctl lower than those obtained when the copper grid was used .
It seems probable therefore that at any rate part of the difference is due to the different arrangement of the apparatus in the two series of experiments .
The above results show that a pencil of -rays is completely scattered in a thickness of matter which is quite small compared with the thickness required to completely absorb them .
Thus , taking gold as an example , the rays are practically completely scattered in a thickness of only cm .
The absorption in a layer of this thickness only amounts to about 20 per cent. of the initial of the rays .
It seems evident , therefore , that an appreciable portion of the primary -rays must emerge on the same side of the foil and reappear as return radiation .
It seems possible that a large proportion , if not the whole , of the return -radiation ( neglecting that set up by -rays ) may arise from this effect , and may thus consist principally , if not entirely , of scattered primary radiation .
The fact that the return radiation from a metal piate has practically the same velocity as the primary rays seems to lend some support to this conjecture .
While it may thus be possible to explain the return -radiation from a metal plate , on the hypothesis that it is due to the scattering of the primary rays , it does not appear to be possible to explain the results of the present experiments on the theory that they are due to secondary radiation .
McClelland , * Crowther , 'Phil .
Mag October , 1906 .
1907 .
] Scattering of the -rays from Uranvum by Matter .
who has worked out the theory of secondary -radiation very completely in various recent papers in the ' Transactions of the Royal Society of Dublin , ' has shown that the effect of secondary radiation would be to produce an increase in the slope of the curve for very thin sheets .
On the amount , however , it is at once seen to be mnch too small to account for the results of the present experiments .
} the case of lead , which gives the largest effect of any of the metals , and plotting the arithm of the ratio for differenb thicknesses , McClelland has shown that the effect of the secondary radiation would be to cause an increase in the slope of this curve in its initial portions to about times the final exponential value .
* For aluminium the of the secondary radiation would be less .
In the present experiments , however , the slope of the initial portions or Che logarithmic curve is at least 12 times its final vftlue .
We must consider , therefore , that the present results are mainly due to the scatterin0 of the primary -rays , by collisions with the -corpuscles iu the atoms of the absorbing plate , and not to secondary radiation .
In conclusion , we may mention that the results of the present experiments remove what was apparently a serious discrepancy between the absorption of the -rays of uranium and radio-active materials enerally , and the -rays .
the cathode stream .
has measured the absorption for various ases of very fast cathode rays , due to a fall of potential of about 35,000 volts , and having a velocity , therefore , of about cm .
per second .
The values he obtained for the ratio , where is the coefficient of absorption and the density , between 1000 and 3000 .
values obtained for the same ratio , using uranium -rays , which according to Becqnerel have a velocity of about cm .
per second , ranged from about 4 to 10 .
The difference is thus considerably more than can be accounted for by the mere difference in velocity of the rays in the cases .
The " " \ldquo ; of the cathode rays is always measured by the falling off in intensity of the rays a small fixed area ( namely , the aperture of the Faraday cylinder used in the nents ) various thicknesses of the substance are interposed in the path of the beam , the original beam , always a nearly parallel pencil of rays .
will thus be seen that what is actually measured in these experiments corresponds not to the ' absorption\ldquo ; of the -rays , but to quantity which we have calJed scattering .
Comparing the results of Becker for the cathode rays with the values * McClelland , ' Roy .
Dublin Soc. Trans vol. 9 , part , p. 41 , 190 'Ann .
der Phys , p. 381 , 1905 .
Scattering of the -rays from by Matter .
obtained in the present paper for , the coefficient of scattering of the -rays , the apparent discrepancy is at once removed .
It can be shown on theoretical grounds*that the scattering should inversely as the fourth power of the velocity .
The -rays from uranium have a velocity of about times that of the cathode rays of Becker .
Multiplying the results obtained for in the present experiments , therefore , by , to allow for the difference on velocity of the two kinds of rays , we obtain results varying between 650 and 2100 .
These numbers agree well with the values , ranging from 1000 to 3000 , obtained by Becker for the cathode rays .
Summary .
The results of the present experiments may be briefly summarised as follows:\mdash ; ( i ) A parallel pencil of -rays is scattered in its passage through matter , the scattering being practically complete after the rays have traversed a thickness of material which from cm .
for aluminium to cm .
for gold .
scattering , after correction for the loss of , due to the absorption of the rays , may be represented by an equation of the form , where is the thickness of the material traversed by the rays , and is the coefficient of scattering for the rays , being the initial intensity of a narrow parallel pencil of -radiation , crossing a small fixed cross section of the pencil , and 1 the intensity crossing the same cross section , when a thickness of material is placed in the path of the beam at a considerable distance from the fixed cross section .
( iii ) The ratio , of the coefficient of scattering to the coefficient of absorption is approximately constant for all the substances its average value being about 13 .
The value of the ratio , where is the density , shows similar variations to those for In conclusion , I wish to express my best thanks to Professor J. J. Thomson for his kindness in suggesting to me the subject of this research , and for his helpful and inspiring interest during the course of the experiments .
* See J. J. Thomson , ' Phil. Mag vol. 11 , p. 781 ,

