On the secondary Deflections produced in a Magnetized Needle by an Iron Shell , in consequence of an unequal Distribution of Magnetism in its two Branches .
First noticed by Captain .
J. P. Wilson , of the Honourable East India Conmpany 's Ship HIythe .
By Peter Barlow , Esq. F.R.S. Memn .
Imp .
Sc. Petrop .
Read May 17 , 1827 .
[ Phil. T'rans .
1827 , p. 276 .
] Captain Wilson being engaged in the prosecution of Mr. Barlow 's inquiries as to the laws of the deflection of a needle by an iron shell , had remarked , while in China , that when a magnetic needle was placed in the equator of an iron shell , though no deviation arose when the compass was in its natural state , yet -when one end of the needle was deteriorated , by touching it with the pole , of its own name , of a magnet , a deviation then arose ; and communicating the facts to Mr. Barlow , he proceeded to investigate the laws and amount of the deviation so arising .
He distinguishes the action into three several cases:1st .
When the needle is on any part of the magnetic meridian of the ball .
In this case there is no deviation caused by the primary of the shell , nor any secondary deflection produced by deteriorating one pole of the needle .
2nd .
When the needle is in the magnetic equator of the ball .
In this case he observed , that whichever end of the needle is weakened approaches the ball .
3rd .
In every other position , one branch of the needle is nearer to the centre of the ball than the other .
Here it is observed , that if the near end is deteriorated , the needle approaches its natural magnetic situation ; but if the more distant , then the reverse takes place ; and this represents the general law of the phenomenon .
From this law , Mr. Barlow is led to the explanation of the facts , on the principle of induced magnetism in the shell ; for in the second case above enumerated , the equilibrium of the needle is produced by equal and opposite repulsions on its equal and equally magnetized ends .
When , therefore , the repulsion on one end is weakened by deteriorating that end , that on the other obtains the advantage , and the deteriorated end is drawn towards the ball .
In the general case , the reasoning is equally simple ; and Mr. Barlow shows that its results are precisely those which observation affords .
These results he considers as decisive in favour of that theory which regards the magnetism of an iron shell as induced in it by the action of the earth .
He concludes this paper with an account of some experiments instituted for the purpose of determining numerically the amount of the secondary deflections , arising from a given extent of deterioration in the needles .
This was estimated by the increase of the times of oscillation in the needle , freely suspended , and the deflections estimated by making the deviations produced by the shell in a series of situations all around it , in various planes ; the results of which are stated in a table .

