]\gt ; 444 Mr. J. W. L. Glaisher .
[ June 16 , Iron , cobalt , nickel , copper , magnesium , and potsssium have , up to the present , given negative results , but will be examined again .
XXI .
" " Formulae for , cn , dn 8 , in terms of sn By ERNEST H. GLAISHER , B.A. , rinity College , Cambridge .
Communlcated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) In Grunert 's " " Archiv der Mathema , tik und Physik vol. xxxvi ( 1861 ) , pp. 125-176 , Baehr has given the formulae for sn , cn dn in terms of sn for the cases , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 .
These expres- sions are reproduced in a tabular form in Cayley 's " " Treatise on EUiptic Functions Art .
109 .
The present paper contains the corresponding formuIae for the case of .
Denoting the numerators and common denominator of sn , cn , dn by respectively , then the numerators and common denominator of sn , cn , dn are respectively PQRS , ; and the paper contains the values of these quantities and also of in terms of sn , arranged in a tabular form .
XX .
" " On Riccati 's Equation and its Transformations , and on some Definite Integrals which satisfy them By J. W. L. GLAISHER , , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity ColJege , Cambridge .
Received June 16 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir relates chiefly to the different forms of the particular integrals of the differential equation ( 1 ) , and to the evaluation of certain definite integrals which are conneoted with this equation .
Transforming ( 1 ) by assuming and putting , it becomes ( 2 ) , and this may be transformed into Riccati 's equation , 1881 .
] On Riccati 's Equation and its Transformations .
by the substitution where It is well known that these equations admit of integration in a finite form if an integer , an uneven integer , and reciprocal of an uneven integer .
The memoir consists of an introduction and eight sections , the head ings of which are : ( 1 ) Dire integration of the differential equat on in series and connexion between the particular integrals ; ( 2 ) New integration of the 1erentla uation when an integer ; ( 3 ) Transformations of the original differential equation ; Riccati 's equation ; ( 4 ) Special forms the articular integrals in the cases in which the differential equations admil lntegr inte ration in a finite form ; ( 5 ) Evaluation of definite integrals satisfying the diflerent a equations ; ( 6 ) Symbolic forms of the parbicular integrals the cases in which the differential equations admit of integrat on tion a finite form ; ( 7 ) Connexion with Bessel 's Functions ; ( 8 ) Writings connected with the contents of the memoir .
In the first section six particular integrals of the equation ( 1 ) are obtained and the relations between them are examined .
When not an integer all the six particular integrals extend to infinity and the relations between them present no special peculiarity .
When an integer two of the series terminate , and we thus obtain two particular integrals of ( 1 ) , which contam a finite number terms The series terminate in consequence of the occurrence of zero factors the coefficients of the terms , but if they be continued , zero factors occur also in the denominators , so that , after a finite number of terms , the series may be regarded as recommencing and extendmg.to nfinity .
If the terminating series are supposed to recommence this manner , so that all the series extend to infinity , then the relations between the particnlar integrals are the same as when is not an integer ; but if the series are supposed to termlnate abso eyw lutel when the zero terms occur , the relations are quite different .
As the finite portions of the particular integrals satisfy the diiferential equation , it is more natural to regard the series as terminating absolutely , an on 1 and this supposition the relations between the particular integrals exhibit a remarkable diversity of form , according as is or is not an eager .
The second section contains what is believed to be a new form of the solution of ( 1 ) in the case of an inleger .
It is shown that this equation is satisfied by the coefficient of in the expansion of ' in ascending of .
The six particular integrals given in the first section and the relations connecting them are also obtained by different expansions of this expression .
446 On Equation and its Transformations .
[ June 16 , The third section contains the six particular integrals of ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , corresponding to those of ( 1 ) , from which they are deduced .
The fourth section relates to the particular cases in which the differential equations admit of integration in a finite .
If a differential equation is satisfied by an infinite series , and if for certain values of a quantity involved in it the series terminates , then in this case we may present the integral in a different form by commencing the finite series at the other end and writing the terms in the reverse order .
These reverse forms in the case , of ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 8 ) are given in this section .
The fifth section contains the evaluations of the definite integrals\mdash ; where denotes any real quantity and any positive quantity .
These integrals have been evaluated when is of the form and when is a positive inte .
, but the general formulae are , the author believes , new .
The results exhibit changes of form similar to thoss referred to in the account of the contents of the first section .
Certain formulae of Cauchy 's and Boole 's are also considered in this section .
The sixth section , which is the longest in the memoir , relates to the different symbolic solutions of ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) in the cases in which they are integrable finite terms .
In this section these symbolic solutions are derived from the definits integrals considered in the fifth section ; and the various symbolic theorems to which they lsad , by comparing different forms of the results , are examined .
A great many symbolic solutions of these differential equa , tions have been given by Gaskin , R. L. Ellis , Boole , Lebesgue , Hargrgave , Williamson , Donkin , and others , and these briefly noticed and connected with one another .
The seventh section relates to the connexion between the results contained in this memoir and the formulae of Bessel 's Functions .
The equation ( 1 ) may , as is well known , be transformed into Bessel 's equation by the substitutions , so tlJat the theorems relating to the solutions of ( 1 ) have analogues in the solutions of Bessel 's equation .
The eighth section contains ] of writings which are closely connected with the subject of the memoir , with short accounts of their contents .

