381 Absorption of Helium and other Gases under the Electric Discharge .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received July 10 , 1912 .
) Berthelot announced in 1896 that he had succeeded in observing an absorption of argon , and later of helium , when these gases were submitted to the silent electric discharge , in the presence of either benzene or bisulphide of carbon : further , that the gases could be extracted by heat from the solid substances deposited on the walls of the vessel .
The experiments were regarded as proving that argon and helium were after all capable of entering into chemical combination .
I shall confine discussion to the supposed interaction of helium and carbon bisulphide .
Berthelot obtained more definite results with this reagent than with benzene.* ' At the time they were published , these accepted , and , so far as I have been able to learn , they have not been more favourably regarded since .
Berthelot , however , adhered to them in his ' Traite Pratique de l'Analyse des Gaz , ' published in 1906 , about the time of his death , and other experimenters have not produced definite evidence against them .
The subject cannot be considered unimportant , and I have long felt that the experiments ought to be repeated .
This has now been done , with results altogether negative .
The helium used was freed from hydrogen by explosion with excess of oxygen , and then purified by cooled charcoal .
The gas stood over mercury in a Siemens tube as shown in the figure .
This tube was graduated , and on the mercury floated a layer of bisulphide of carbon .
The induction coil used was worked by a mercury turbine interrupter , and resistances were interposed in the primary circuit to reduce the spark it was capable of giving to about \#163 ; inch .
This was to avoid danger of piercing the * ' Annals de Chimie et de Physique , ' 1897 , Series 7 , vol. 11 , p. 15 .
VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; A. 2 D results were not generally 382 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Absorption of Helium and [ July 10 , glass .
When the discharge is passed , solid decomposition products of disulphide of carbon are deposited on the walls of the glass tube , and the quantity of liquid bisulphide diminishes .
In the final and most prolonged experiment , on which reliance is chiefly placed , about 2'5 c.c. of pure helium was placed in a small Siemens tube with bisulphide of carbon , which brought up the volume ( at room temperature ) to 4 c.c. The coil was kept in continuous action for 120 hours ; during this period the volume reading oscillated a little around its initial value owing to inevitable variations of temperature , to which of course the vapour-tension of the bisulphide is very sensitive .
These variations , however , did not show any tendency to one direction rather than the other , and at the end of the 120 hours ' sparking the volume actually read was 4*2 c.c. There was no tendency whatever to contraction .
In the course of this experiment about 0-75 c.c. of liquid bisulphide of carbon was converted into solid products .
Since no contraction had occurred , there did not seem much prospect of extracting helium from this solid material .
It was thought desirable , however , to test the point independently .
The Siemens tube was well washed out with air , and attached to a small vacuum tube and charcoal reservoir and exhausted .
The deposit was heated to the softening point of the glass containing it , but when the charcoal was cooled all gas was absorbed , so that the spectrum tube could not be excited .
The charcoal was allowed to warm up , and the spectrum watched as it was cooled again .
Nothing could be seen of the helium line at any stage .
It was not thought necessary to estimate precisely the sensitiveness of this test as carried out , for it was certainly more than enough .
Nothing like 1/ 10 e.c. of helium can have been extracted , for any such quantity would have been glaringly conspicuous .
Asa test of the methods of manipulation employed , I tried the absorption of nitrogen by bisulphide of carbon under the same conditions .
The initial volume ( nitrogen-f carbon disulphide vapour ) was 4 c.c. On passing the discharge , a slow but steady contraction occurred , the volume diminishing in 29 hours to 2'4 c.c. The mercury had then risen to a level in the tube which was obscured by the black deposit of decomposition-products , and the experiment was discontinued .
The rate of contraction with helium ( if any ) was certainly not more than one-seventieth part of this .
My results are , then , quite definitely negative , and the conditions apparently not materially different from those of Berthelot 's experiments .
Yet the latter are so minutely described , and so apparently conclusive , that even with this experience it is difficult not to feel some hesitation in 1912 .
] other Gases under Electric Discharge .
rejecting them .
If any future experimenter should succeed in getting the absorption , I should be disposed to regard it as mechanical rather than chemical , like the undoubted absorption of helium by aluminium scattered from the cathode of a vacuum discharge tube.* The solid decomposition-products of carbon bisulphide are deposited on the glass in a compact film , and gas may be absorbed mechanically as in the case mentioned .
It is known that phosphorus under the influence of electric discharge is capable of absorbing gases .
The method has been used by Sir Oliver Lodge for exhausting his vacuum valves.]* The considerations just mentioned raise the question whether this action is chemical or mechanical .
For the discharge passing through phosphorus vapour converts it into the red modification , which is deposited as a coherent film on the glass , and mechanical retention of gas under these circumstances is quite conceivable .
I pass to some experiments designed to test the question .
The discharge vessels used were oval bulbs of about 50 c.c. capacity .
These were provided with aluminium wire electrodes , and were connected to an apparatus for admitting any desired gas in small successive doses , and to a siphon vacuum gauge reading to 1 mm. The first experiments were made with nitrogen ; 50 mgrm .
of phosphorus were placed in the discharge vessel , which was highly exhausted , and a dose of nitrogen ( L43 c.c. ) admitted .
The discharge was passed , and in about five minutes the manometer indicated that all gas had been absorbed .
This was repeated till four doses had been absorbed .
The action had then become slower , and the bulb was strongly heated with a Bunsen flame .
This did not liberate any of the absorbed gas , but it reconverted the red phosphorus deposited on the walls to yellow phosphorus .
Two more doses of nitrogen were admitted and absorbed .
Heating was repeated .
Finally , one more dose was admitted , and could only partially be absorbed .
The total absorption amounted to 10 c.c. , or 200 c.c. per gramme of phosphorus .
The tube was finally heated to incipient softening of the glass , but the manometer did not indicate any liberation of gas .
Similar experiments were made with hydrogen .
The amount of absorption effected was at the rate of 84 c.c. of hydrogen per gramme .
Here , again , the gas could not be extracted by heat .
This circumstance , considered in connection with the comparatively large quantity of gas absorbed , justifies the conclusion that nitrogen and hydrogen both enter into chemical union with phosphorus under these conditions .
There is scope for an interesting chemical research in examining the solid products .
* Soddy and Mackenzie , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1907 , A , vol. 80 , p. 92 .
t British Patent No. 25047 , 1905 .
Absorption of Helium and other Gases .
Experiments of a similar kind were made with pure helium in place of hydrogen or nitrogen .
In this case , too , a distinct absorption of gas was observed , but it was very slight , and of a smaller order of magnitude than in the previous case .
Four grammes of phosphorus were placed in a 50 c.c. discharge vessel , which was provided with a manometer .
Helium was admitted to 13 mm. pressure , and the tube sealed off .
After 70 hours ' run the pressure had fallen to 3 mm. , and could not be made to fall further .
This represents an absorption of 0T6 c.c. per gramme , as compared with 84 c.c. for hydrogen , and 200 c.c. for nitrogen .
On heating the helium was nearly all liberated again , as indicated by the manometer .
The behaviour of helium is , then , sharply distinguished from that of hydrogen or nitrogen .
The absorption is only 1/ 500 part , or less , and the gas can be liberated by heat , whereas nitrogen or hydrogen are firmly retained .
I conclude , then , that helium is mechanically , and hydrogen or nitrogen chemically , retained by phosphorus .
Summary .
Attempts to repeat Berthelot 's absorption of helium by carbon bisulphide under the influence of the silent discharge have given absolutely negative results .
Helium is slightly absorbed by phosphorus under electric discharge , though in much less quantity than nitrogen or hydrogen .
The absorption in the former case is regarded as mechanical , in the latter as chemical .

