290 Prof. Balfour Stewart and Mr. W. L. Carpenter .
upon a galvanometer needle , a permanent source of power must exist ; and as corrosion of metal does not occur , this source of power must be different from that of the voltaic current ; such currents have heeu attributed to capillary action .
" Report to the Solar Physics Committee on a Comparison between apparent Inequalities of Short Period in Sun-spot Areas and in Diurnal Temperature-ranges at Toronto and Kew .
" By Balfour Stewart , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and William Lant Carpenter , B.A. , B.Sc. Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Solar Physics Committee .
Received April 21 .
Read May 1 , 1884 .
1 .
It has been known for some time , through the researches of Sabine and others , that there is a close connexion between the Inequalities in the state of the sun 's surface as denoted by sun-spot areas and those in terrestrial magnetism as denoted by the diurnal ranges of oscillation of the declination magnet ; and moreover , the observations , of Baxendell , Meldrum , and various other meteorologists have induced ?
us to suspect* that there may likewise be a connexion between solar yinequalities and-those in terrestrial meteorology .
This latter connexion , however , assuming it to exist , is not so well established as* the former\#151 ; at least if we compare together Inequalities of long period .
Attempts have been made to explain this by imagining that for long periods the state of the atmosphere , as regards absorption , may change in such a manner as to diminish or even cloak the effects of solar variation by increasing the absorption when the sun is strongest and diminishing the absorption when the sun is weakest .
On this account it has seemed to us desirable to make a comparison of this kind between short-period Inequalities , since for these the length of period could not so easily be deemed sufficient to produce a great alteration of the above nature in the state of the atmosphere .
The meteorological element which we have selected for comparison with sun-spots has been the diurnal range of atmospheric temperature\#151 ; an element which presents in its variations a very strong analogy to diurnal declination-range .
2 .
There are two ways in which a comparison might be made between solar and terrestrial Inequalities .
We might take each individual valuation in sun-spot areas and find the value of the terrestrial element corresponding in time to the maximum and the minimum of the solar wave .
If we were to perform this operation for every individual solar Inequality and add together the results , we might

