VI .
A Second Letter from Mr. Antony Van Leeuwenhoek , F. R. S. to John Chamberlain , Esq ; F. R. S. upon the same Subject as the former .
SIR , SINCE the Communicating to You my last Thoughts and Observations concerning Razors some Weeks ago , I have often viewed the Hairs of my Chin with a Microscope after they were cut off , and always observed upon the White or Grey Hairs the Streaks which are made by the small Notches that , as I told you in my former , I had discovered in my Razor , especially when those Hairs were Cut more obliquely than usual ; for in such Hairs I have often seen above twelve Streaks , occasioned by so many Notches that were in the Razor , all within the Compass of a Hair 's breadth .
Because I would not trust wholly to my own Judgment , I caused a Man of good Understanding to view several Hairs through a Microscope ; and I asked him , how many little Straeks he observed in the Cut of one of those Hairs ?
Who answered me , Twelve .
Among some of those little Hairs I had shaved off my Chin , I discovered several whose Roots were entire , but cou 'd not perceive that they had been touched by the Razor : this seemed to me at first very strange , because I had always imagined , that the Hair of the Head and Face did not change or fall off , like that of other Parts of the Body .
But I considered how much the Skin is softned by warm Water and hard rubbing , and that the Notches in the Razor , which by reason of their smallness escaped the naked Eye , when they meet with such Hairs , are not capable of Cutting off the Hair , but rather tear it out by the Root ; which also may be the Cause of the Pain or Smart that one feels , when one is shaved with an indifferent Razor .
I viewed some of those little Hairs that had the Roots on , and observed the sides of them to be a little Tore or Mangled ; which I suppose might be occasioned by the Notch of the Razor , that had laid hold of the Hair in that Part , and so pulled it out .
I have moreover busied my self in observing the Muscles of the Cod-fish , and observed that none of the small Particles , that compose the said Muscles , were thicker than the single Hair of a Man 's Chin ; but they were of several sizes , some of them being not half so big as others .
When the Parts of the Fish were dry , I cut some of these Muscles across with a Razor , which I set and prepared after the manner mentioned in my former Letter ; and I observed in some of those Muscles so cut , as many small Streaks as there were Notches ( invisible indeed to the naked Eye ) in the aforesaid Razor , insomuch that we who observed it were amazed at it .
And as every Particle of the Muscle of the aforesaid Fish is composed , as I have formerly observed , of an unspeakable number of long slender Particles , so every little Notch of the Razor , did not only make a little Streak in the Muscle , to which it was applied , but also caused such a Roughness in it , that one might discover the exceeding slender Particles , of which one of the long Particles , no thicker than a course Hair , is composed : Notwithstanding that the small long Particles , dried up so quick , that one shou 'd have taken them for a solid Body .
For my further satisfaction , I sent a clean Towel to a Burgher of this Place , who being about Fifty Years old , had grey Hairs on his Chin , entreating him that when he was next Shaved , he wou 'd let his Barber wipe the Razor upon the said Towel .
Having viewed some of these Hairs thro ' my Microscope , I discovered the Streaks that the Razor had made therein , as plainly as those which I mentioned before of my own , although the said Burgher told me , that he had not been shaved in a long time so softly and easily as then .
I observed in the said Hair a great many little ones whose Roots were complete ; and amongst a great many of them of different Figures , I observed one Hair that had three sides with roundish Angles , and that all the three sides bended inwardly .
I sent another Towel to another Burgher of about Sixty Years , to the end that I might likewise observe his Hairs ; in which also I discovered the little Streaks occasioned by the Notches of another Razor , but with this Difference , that the Streaks in the last Hair were finer than the former , which I only attribute to the last Razor 's being set upon a better Hone : Among these Hairs also I~ found some that had their complete Roots .
I shall conclude here , and remain , Honoured Sir , Delft , Nov. 22 .
1709 .
Your most Humble Servant , Antony van Leeuwenhoek .

