III .
Observations on the Affinitty between Basaltes and Granite .
By Thomas Beddoes , M. D. ; communicated by Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. P. R. S. Read January 27 , 1791 .
ALL our opinions on the formation of rocks and mountains , except volcanic mountains , must of necessity rest upon analogical reasoning , since we have no direct testimony concerning their origin .
Hence , whatever portion of the mineral kingdom is but little connected with our experience of the action of fire or water , must be slightly passed over , or set aside for future investigation , while the partisans of the two opposite hypotheses , which at present divide the philosophical observers of fossils , fix their whole attention , and lay all the stress of their arguments , on such particulars as they are able to connect by some analogy with the chemical operations in which either fire or water are principally concerned .
For this reason , basaltes has been much more the subject of disputation than granite ; the former species of rock offering appearances that coincide in some degree with both kinds of chemical processes , while the latter seems to stand aloof from the experiments that have given birth to our sciences .
We do , indeed , find opinions on the production of granite by one or other of the causes above mentioned ; but they are generally * loose conjectures , thrown out at random , rather than philosophical propositions , laid down in precise * The only exceptions known to me are , Phil. Trans. Vol. LXV .
p. 5-47 .
and Edinburgh Transactions , Vol. I. p. 255-257 .
terms , and supported by proper evidence .
In consequence of information obtained from various sources , I have been led to consider this question in a light somewhat new ; and although I cannot but expect my conclusions to be controverted , however strong may be my own conviction of their justness , I am encouraged by the hope of communicating some original observations on the physical geography of our own country , and of bringing forward to public notice some facts not generally known among us , though they are such as cannot be overlooked in a theory of granite .
Notwithstanding the recent objections of Mr. WERNER * , I shall assume the origin of basaltes from subterraneous fusion as thoroughly established by various authors ~ .
Several observations of my own , which I intend soon to offer to the public , will , I flatter myself , corroborate the evidence , though already sufficiently strong to remove all reasonable doubt , and add a considerable tract to those where the effects of ancient fire have * Bergmannisches Journal , March 1789 .
Among the facts adduced by this celebrated mineralogist to prove the watery origin of basaltes , I cannot discover any very new or striking .
The appearance of basaltes between strata is his great argument .
But the same , or a similar appearance had been noticed by Dr. HUTTON ( Edinb .
Tr. I. p. 279 .
) ; WHITEHURST ( Chap. XVI .
) : FERBER ( Italy , p. 51 .
) mentions the insertion of lava between calcareous strata ; and in LESKE ( Reise durch Sachsen , 4to , 1785 , p. 517 .
) , we have basaltic columns in sandstone .
Mr. WERNER also insists upon the gradual approximation of the adjacent stratum towards the nature of basaltes .
~ DESMAREST , in his well-known Paper in the French Memoirs ; RASPE , Extinct Volcanos near Cassel ; FAUJAS , Volcans eteints , &amp;c. and Mineralogie des Volcans ; Sir W. HAMILTON , Campi Phlegraei , and Phil. Trans. ; FERBER , Travels through Italy ; DOLOMIEU , in his Account of the Lipari and Pontian Isles ; LESKE , l. c. ; BEROLDINGEN , in his Account of the Quicksilver Mines in the Palatinate , &amp;c. ; HAMILTON , Letters on the Coast of Antrim ; HUTTON , l. c. ; VELTHEIM , Etwas uber die Basalt , Leipsig , 1787 ; are among the chief of these authors .
been traced in our times .
It may be proper to premise , that under the term basaltes I comprehend that vast natural family of rocks which is frequently cracked into regular colonnades , and may be followed in an unbroken series from this perfect form through endless modifications to the most shapeless mass of trapp or whinstone .
Though frequently of an iron-grey colour and uniform texture , this species of stone varies greatly in both these characters , even in the same rock .
In particular , it passes , by the most insensible gradations , both to the porphyries , with which it coincides in appearance , in composition , and doubtless also in origin , and to the hornstein of the Germans ; a term including petrosilex and several sorts of close grained whinstone , of which I have found in England varieties with a conchoidal fracture , semi-transparent at the edges , and in other respects fast approaching * to a siliceous nature .
Lilleshall Hill near Shifnal , in Shropshire , to mention a single instance , affords such siliceous , besides semi-granitic , porphyritic , and common whinstone , containing agate .
But basaltes , of which a right knowledge is conducting us fast to a just theory of the earth , is not less connected with granite ; insomuch that we may trace these rocks gradually approaching and changing into one another .
I have myself had an opportunity of examining many connecting links in this gradual succession ; and this opinion , which has since been confirmed by other considerations , was first forced upon me by specimens in great variety from volcanic and basaltic countries .
But as it is a point by far too important to be admitted on the mere authority of any mineralogist , I shall endeavour to support it by the testimony of observers , who cannot be suspected * DOLOMIEU , Isles Ponces , p. 111 .
185 .
&amp;c. describes just such lavas .
of any bias towards such an hypothesis .
The first step in the progression appears at the Giant 's Causeway in Ireland .
Many of the pillars there consist of fine-grained , dark-coloured whinstone ; that variety which may be considered as most perfect , and as equidistant from porphyry , petrosilex , and granite ; but at the promontory of Fairhead , the character of the stone is seen to alter , and it has lately been described as an imperfect kind of granite * .
Hence we are led by regular approaches to perfect prisms of granite , accompanied by prisms of common whinstone , and not less obviously than the different ranges on the Coast of Antrim betraying a common origin .
The pillars of Les Rameaux , though they rather incline towards the dark colour and uniform hard substance ; yet , when broken , are unequal both in colour and texture , and sometimes interspersed with irregular pieces and patches , as it were , of an heterogeneous hard substance , which , by its micae and small rhomboidal crystallizations , much resembles a sort of granite I have frequently seen .
The mass on which these columns stand is of the same mixed character ~ .
' ' Other examples will occur afterwards ; and for basaltiform colonnades of granite it is only necessary to refer to Mr. STRANGE 's description of Monte Rosso ~ .
The general shape of the Euganean hills , as if suddenly raised by * HAMILTON , 2d edition of his Letters , p. 37 .
says , it ` ` resembles an imperfect compact granite .
' ' I have specimens from an hill near Mallwhyd , in the vicinity of Cader Idris , where the texture insensibly changes from an uniform whinstone ground to grains of mica , feldspath , shoerl , and , I think , sometimes quartz .
They are , I fancy , like those dense lavas of Etna , ` ` Qui , vues a la loupe , laissent appercevoir des ebauches de crystallization de shorl , de quarz , ou de feld-spath .
DOLOMIEU , l. c. p. 182 .
~STRANG E , Phil. Trans. LXV .
p. 13 .
~ Ibid. the expansive and effervescent force of heat * from the surrounding plain , the lava intermixed with granite , as if both had concreted together , the columns of an uniform texture in the adjacent parts of these hills , and the rest of the phenomenon , even then led the author to suspect , ` ` a strong analogy between granites and many particular volcanic concretions .
' ' From the mountain of Esterelles , in the South of France , on the road from Frejus to Antibes , I have before me granite , gneiss , and specimens , in which feldspath and grains of transparent quartz are diffused through a paste of the same brownish red colour and texture as the basaltic columns at Dunbar in Scotland .
Nothing is indeed more common , or more variously modified , than fossils of this intermediate character ~ .
We frequently find a ground of jasper , and no doubt also of different varieties of whinstone , as will hereafter appear , with feldspath and shoerl at the same time imbedded in them ~ ; and again with grains of feldspath and quartz in such a manner as to leave it extremely doubtful , whether the rock ought to be named granite or porphyry ~ .
The varieties of such rocks will conduct us , by easy steps , from uniform basaltes through the porphyries to granite .
A chemical examination of the basis of a number of these porphyries would be very interesting ; yet I would not rest the theory of their formation altogether on the result of analysis .
* The sight of them impressed FERBER also with the same idea .
~ Il n'y a point de naturalistes qui no connoissent le genre de roches , place entre le granit , les gneiss , et les porphyres , qui tiennent un peu des trois especes .
Isles Ponces , p. 90 , ~ HAIDINGER , Tract quoted below , p. 47 .
~ CHARPENTIER ( Mineralogical Geography of Saxony , 410 , 1778 .
in German ) , p. 50 .
and elsewhere , finds himself in this state of uncertainty .
The same stratum is perpetually varying in its mixture ; and we should not too rigorously adhere to the proportion of ingredients discovered by the chemist in the hundred grains upon which his experiments may chance to be made .
The sensible qualities , the stile of fissure , the accompanying fossils , and the form of whole rocks , when surveyed by an experienced eye , are as good criterions of basaltes as a certain proportion of iron , and the black glass which it yields on fusion .
Should the matter of any given rock contain too little iron to be fusible by the blow-pipe , and yet have other striking features of whinstone , would this be a sufficient reason to conclude , that its formation has been different ?
Chemistry , if thus strictly followed , would perplex mineralogy , instead of reducing it to order .
Characters of minerals , purely chemical , would separate those whose natural history is alike , and bring together such as differ widely in their formation .
The late Mr. FERBER'S letters from Italy furnish so many facts , conspiring in one way or another to show the affinity between basaltes as well as other products of subterraneous fire and granite , that whoever reads them with this view will , I am persuaded , find himself more interested and instructed .
The following are among the most striking of these facts .
4th species of basaltes .
Oriental basaltes through which the constituent parts of granite are equably diffused .
Separate particles of red feldspath , quartz , and mica , are dispersed through the substance of this species : they seem to have been distributed through an aqueous solution , and to prove , that this species had rather an aqueous than a fiery origin .
' ' I see neither proof nor presumption in favour of this supposition ; but in a series of specimens , collected with a view to show the transition from black basaltes to granite , this species and the granite from Esterelles would form two contiguous links .
5th Oriental basaltes , with stripes of granite .
The common black basaltes , fasciated with large stripes of red granite , blended and joined to the basaltes without any visible separation ; not as the pebbles in a breccia , or as fissures healed up and filled with granite , but as if both the basaltes and granite had been fluid together * .
' ' Those specimens , which show how copiously volcanos produce feldspath , shoerl , and mica , especially the two former ( substances common both to basaltes and granite ) , tend greatly to establish the near relation between these two kinds of rock .
I was surprised , at this day , to find an excellent observer seriously maintaining , that these earthy crystallizations are merely ejected , and not generated , by these fires ~ .
Attempts , I am aware , have been made to set up boundaries between the columnar granite of the Euganean hills , the granite of the volcanic provinces of France , the granitello of the Italians , and such granite as is found to constitute high and extensive ranges of mountains .
As to a difference in the size of particles , and hardness of the stone , the first distinction is neither constant , nor by any means calculated to persuade us , that a cause , capable of producing the one , is inadequate to the production of the other .
It may probably be explained from the quantity of matter , more or less perfect fusion , a different length of time in cooling ; and in the latter character I suspect the observers to have been deceived by the * See FERBER'S Travels in Italy , pp. 231 , 232 .
English translation .
~ DOLOMIEU , Isles Ponces , and Laves de l'Etna , passim .
decay of the rocks they inspected * .
At all events , lavas in abundance show , that fire is capable of producing any required degree of compactness ~ .
I shall conclude this induction of particulars with an observation lately published by one of our most intelligent mineralogical travellers .
` ` Among the ancient black stones , the compound species are most frequent .
They often consist of a kind of granite , in which the scaly black shoerl predominates so much , that the whole mass appears black .
It is accompanied by white feldspath of so small a grain , and so entangled among the shoerl , as to be sometimes scarcely distinguishable .
The feldspath itself is sometimes transparent , and by transmitting the colour of the shoerl , in which it is imbedded ( empate ) appears black ... . .
Sometimes scales of black mica occur .
The constituent parts do not always observe the same proportion ; and when the quantity of feldspath increases , the appearance of a real grey or red granite is produced .
Hence we have veins and spots of grey granite in almost all the dark-coloured rocks that pass under the denomination of basaltes .
These veins have very much embarrassed those naturalists who maintain that all basaltes has been produced by fire .
' ' This circumstance , however , according to my view of the subject , is far from embarrassing : I consider it as a strong proof of my opinion , since it seems to involve this consequence , that , if basaltes proceed from susion , granite also must .
Specimens , such as those here described , I should place near granular basaltes , like that of Cape Fairhead .
` ` In blocks of ancient basaltes , ' ' proceeds M. DOLO* ` ` Though partial spots of this granite are often friable , especially about the surface , yet in general it is very hard .
' ' STRANGE , ubi supra , p. 9 .
~ See DOLOMIEU , Isles Ponces , p. 139 .
MIEU , ` ` I have observed the transition from shoerl in a mass nearly homogeneous ( I say , nearly homogeneous , because I know of no stones , belonging , as these do , to the primitive mountains , without indications of a separation of several substances which were incorporated together in a paste , or rather which are generated in that paste ) to black and white granites , with large grains , and composed of nearly equal quantities of white feldspath and black shoerl .
The transition depends altogether on an increased proportion of feldspath and on the enlargement of its grains ; a phenomenon which leaves no room to doubt , that all these stones belong to the same system of mountains * .
' ' By observations like these , which the specimens I either possess , or have examined , corroborate and complete , I am persuaded , that when once it becomes an object of attention , persons who have an opportunity of exploring countries where basaltes and granite abound , will easily find a succession of specimens beginning at the former and terminating at the latter .
Nor is it perhaps difficult to assign highly probable reasons , why a mixture of different earths with more or less of metallic matter , in returning from a state of fusion to a solid consistence , may assume sometimes the homogeneous basaltic , and sometimes the heterogeneous granitic internal structure .
No fact is more familiar than that it depends altogether on the management of the fire , and the time of cooling , whether a mass shall have the uniform vitreous fracture , or an earthy broken grain , arising from a confused crystallization .
The art of making REAUMUR'S procelain consists en* Journal de Physique , September 1790 , p. 196 .
I have several specimens from the whin rocks about Edinburgh prefectly answering to this description , and so like some Vesuvian lavas that it is impossible to distinguish them .
tirely in allowing the black glass time to crystallize by a slow refrigeration ; and the very same mass , according as the heat is conducted , may , without any alteration of its chemical constitution , be successively exhibited any number of times as glass , or as a stony matter with a broken grain .
In the slag of the iron furnaces , the same piece generally exhibits both these appearances ; the upper surface cools fast , and is glass ; what lies deeper , loses its heat more gradually , and is allowed time to take on the crystalline arrangement peculiar to its nature , in as far as a number of crystals , starting from various points at once , and crowding each other , will admit of it .
Here indeed the crystals are uniform , and not of a different form and composition , as in granite ; so that this analogy applies closely only to basaltes ; and it perfectly explains why this body in congealing has assumed an earthy and not a vitreous grain .
But it is easy to conceive how , under certain variations of heat and mixture , a melted mass may coagulate into quartz , feldspath and shoerl , or mica * .
The most permanent difference between basaltes and granite , as to mixture , consists in the quantity of iron ; for the earths in the innumerable varieties of each vary indefinitely in their proportions ; and as to heat , that the latter having been perhaps in general raised from a greater depth , and consisting of more * ` ` Il est certain que dans les porphyres les cristaux de feld-spath n'existoient pas avaunt l'epoque de la precipitation de leur base .
' ' He supposes them to be of aqueous origin ; but the fact is much to my present purpose .
` ` On y suit les progres successifs de leur formation : on voit que peu a peu les substances qui leur sont propres se rapprochent , s'epurent et prennent les forms qui conviennent a leurs molecules ; ils etoient comme en dissolution dans leurs matrices et ils ont d'autant plus de facilite a se joindre que la fluidite a ete plus parfaite et que le dessechement a ete plus long .
' ' Isles Ponces , 247 , 248 .
huge masses , must have cooled more slowly , and perhaps they have undergone different degrees of fusion .
Besides toadstone , basaltes enclosing feldspath , zeolite , &amp;c. , various lavas clearly demonstrate that heterogeneous earthy crystals do separate from a fused paste , once undoubtedly as uniform as a metallic calx and its reducing flux before the Ssubsidence of the metallic particles .
We shall , I imagine , be much deceived by a narrow analogy if , because in our processes for glass-making an homogeneous product is obtained from heterogeneous materials , we conclude , that an heterogeneous product may not , under other circumstances , result from fusion ; and that fire keeps inseparably blended whatever it has once reduced to an uniform liquid paste .
It must also be carefully remembered , that this difficulty does not press the igneous more than the opposite hypothesis .
Since the constituent parts of granite are crystals , the whole mass must once have existed in that state of entire disunion of ita particles which is necessary to crystallization .
Now , whether such a solution have been effected by the repulsive power of fire , or the intervention of water , it is just as easy to conceive heterogeneous earthy crystals shooting from different points of an uniform liquid , according to the former supposition , as the latter .
In the natural history of granite and basaltes , another striking circumstance occurs : they lie so contiguous , and are so involved in one another , that we cannot but suppose both to have undergone the same operations of nature at the same time .
This is seen with the utmost frequency upon every possible scale , and under a vast variety of modifications .
The facts already quoted afford instances in point .
I have before me a specimen from the park at Stockholm , consisting partly of trapp and partly of granite .
The adjacent parts are as firmly united as the other parts of the specimen ; and when a violent blow is struck , the trapp and granite do not separate , but the fracture takes some other direction .
They seem in several places of the boundary to run into one another .
The whole mountainous district surveyed by Mr. LESKE * with such scrupulous accuracy affords multiplied examples of the contiguity and connection between these different rocks .
` ` From all these minute descriptions , ' ' says the Author , ` ` it appears , that the base of the whole range consists of granite .
On the declivity of the highest elevations , and on the solitary summits of the external chain , corneous porphyry lies upon the granite , out of which as well as the granite itself , and the sandstone at its foot , basaltes has been protruded by the force of subterraneous fire ~ .
' ' The manner of connection will appear from a few examples .
The basaltes of the Spizberg ~ has a granulated structure , and is imbedded in granite .
The substance of the pillars of the Gikelsberg ~ is close and granular ~ in some pieces ` ` I found the constituent grains of granite little altered .
' ' Of the columns of the Knorberg , ` ` the substance is close , uneven , and consists of distinct grains : ... large pieces of imperfectly fused granite are diffused through its substance .
In the Whinstone of the Hochwald there are found pieces consisting of a mixture of white feldspath , quartz , and black shoerl ~ .
' ' Again , in the Rauberg , the constituent parts of granite are so diffused through the basaltes , * Reise durch Sachsen .
~ Ibid. p. 513 .
` ` It is also remarkable , that granite in general throughout Velay and Auvergne is frequently intermixed with the basaltine and other common volcanic hills .
I have observed the same in Italy .
' ' STRANGE , p. 14 .
~ Reise durch Sachsen , p. 328 .
~ Ibid. p. 498 .
~ Ibid. p. 515 .
that the Author imagines the rock to be an imperfectly fused granite * .
I rather consider these as instances of imperfectly crystallized granite , where some unfavourable circumstance has prevented the constituent parts from receding completely from one another .
Experiments show , that almost all granites melt into a black glass ~ ; and perhaps it is no abuse of analogy , nor inconsistent with what I have already remarked , to conclude , that granite , in the state of imperfect fusion , should present a glassy substance , involving the more infusible parts of which this stone consists .
The Scheibenberg , near Konigsbruck , consists of a stone which Mr. LESKE knows not whether to call hornslate ~ , or corneous porphyry ~ .
From the description it appears plainly to be a whinstone .
The colour is dark grey ; it breaks into columnar fragments ; is hard , fine-grained , and sonorous ; little veins of quartz cross it in all directions , and it frequently becomes porphyritic , as enclosing crystals of feldspath .
The Author himself is afterwards aware ~ of its affinity to basaltes , both in substance and from its assuming the columnar form .
In this hill a mass of granite is found imbedded in the whinstone , and on all sides surrounded by it , and the mass of granite is in its turn in all directions intersected with veins and stripes of whinstone .
Mr. LESKE is much struck by this mutual and intimate incorporation ; but he makes no attempt to explain it .
In some instances , he thinks an eruption has * Reise durch Sachsen , p. 330 .
~ HAIDINGER'S Eintheilung der Gebirgsarten .
Wien , 1787 , p. 11 .
and the Authors quoted there .
~ Hornschiefer .
~ Ibid. p. 24-29 .
No chemical characters are given .
~ Ibid. p. 513 , 514 1 broke broke out through the granite ; and in others , is at pains to show , that these substances are not thoroughly blended , as in the last example , and in that described by FERBER .
It may be said , and no doubt it sometimes happens , that shivers of granite , broken off by the violence of explosion , are licked up by melted matter as it moves along ; thus , in volcanic breccias an older lava is enclosed in one more recent , and thus what is called primary is sometimes encased in secondary granite .
But such an hypothesis is too narrow to embrace all the phenomenon .
It does not explain the incipient coagulation of the uniform paste into grains , and those the different grains of granite ; nor the diffusion of the constituent parts of granite through the substance of basaltes ; nor the fifth species described by Mr. FERBER .
In the whinstone rocks of England , which are far more numerous than is commonly supposed , I have frequently observed in the same hill , 1 .
homogeneous dark grey stone ; 2 .
feldspath enclosed in this as in a paste ; and , 3 .
the paste disappearing , and the whole becoming granular , and the grains heterogeneous .
Besides feldspath , quartz is found in innumerable masses of varying magnitude * in many whinstone rocks , and as proper basaltes is but a confused mass of crystals of shoerl , we have all the ingredients of granite ; and why * In the Wrekin , Cader Idris , &amp;c. numerous and large veins filled with quartz occur ; but these have not been secreted from the substance of the rocks in which they lie .
They , perhaps , show this most siliceous ingredient of granite to have been near and in fusion at the same time .
About Cader Idris I suspect an incorporation of granite and basaltes may be found .
I have seen pieces of granite about that mountain which did not seem to have been far removed from the rock to which they belonged ; but I had then no particular inducement to make an accurate examination .
may we not expect to find them incorporated together , and in every state of diffusion and separation ?
Under this head I shall only remark further , that several late observations , from which it has been inferred , that certain extinct volcanos have been seated in the heart of granite * , seem to admit of a much more easy explanation , on the supposition that granite has crystallized from fusion .
~ .
Volcanic fires reach to a much greater depth than any at which we have had an opportunity of making observations .
The focus in different instances may be seated at a different distance from the surface ; but none are probably less than several miles at least deep .
2 .
The currents of granitic lava ~ in the Pontian isles leave little room to doubt of the power of subterraneous fire to produce this substance .
To suppose them to be rocks of granite fused , but otherwise unchanged , and that even fissile rocks may be made to flow without losing their laminated structure ; is as bold an assumption as can easily be taken up .
In the great igneous processes of nature fire need not be imagined to act otherwise ~ * DOLOMIEU , Isles Ponces , p. 30 , 31 .
and Isles de Lipari , in various parts .
~ DOLOMIEU , l. c. passim , and particularly p. 89-97 .
Instructive as the particular facts described by this excellent mineralogist always are , I must dissent from him both on the mode of action of volcanic fires , and on the production of zeolite and other crystals , in glandular rocks , for the reasons assigned here and below .
~ ` ` Le feu produit , dans les laves , un fluidite qui n'a aucun rapport avec la fluidite vitreuse que nous operons ... . .
Celui des volcans n'a point d'intensite ; il no peut pas meme vitrifier les substances les plus fusibles ... .
il produit la fluidite par un espece de dissolution , par un simple dilatation qui permet aux parties de glisser les unes sir les autres ( DOLOMIEU , Avant-propos , p. 8 .
) .
See also p. 84 .
Fire in a crucible produces fluidity no otherwise ; and when there is this freedom of motion among the partieles , how can we suppose the crystals of granite and the leaves of schistus to remain unmixed even in a current of lava ?
than in our small experiments ; we actually see it producing glass and cellular spongy scoriae : when the products are of a different character , we must have recourse to accessory circumstances , and not violate the plainest rules of philosophising by attributing different effects to the same cause .
The latent motive for such an extraordinary hypothesis may easily be divined ; the observer took it for granted , that all granite is of aqueous formation ; hence he was obliged to reason backwards from the unknown , that of the Alps for instance , to the known , instead of proceeding from the palpable effects of subterraneous fire by easy steps to a general theory of granite .
When it is taken for granted , before examination , that granite cannot be formed by fire , there remains no resource but to say , that granitic * lavas are granite rocks fused , but not altered in the arrangement of their constituent parts .
3 .
Though the heat of volcanos be sometimes and in some places moderate ; in others we have good reason to believe , that it exceeds any degree we can produce , except by means of factitious air ; we are certain that it forms molten currents of petrosilex and flint exactly the same as our gun flints ~ .
If we admit this reasoning , the appearance of granite in the bosom of volcanic desolation may , if duly examined in all its circumstances , afford strong evidence of its production by fusion ; and it is reasonable to conclude , that it was once covered to a considerable depth by erupted matters , which the course of * ` ` Les laves blanches de l'Ile Ponce paroissent appartenir plus particulierement au granit et aux roches feuilletees granitiques .
On reconnoit les substances qui constituent ordinairement ce genre de roche composee dans presques toutes les matieres blanches ( volcaniques ) de cette isle ; savoir , le quartz en grain , le mica noir ecailleux et le feldspath plus ou moins pur .
DOLOMIEU , l. c. p. 89 .
~ Idem ibid. p. 107 .
time , and the injuries of the atmosphere , have removed ; though I by no means deny that a volcano may force its way through pre-existing rocks of granite .
There is still another analogy between basaltes and granite , more important to the theory of the earth , and less liable to controversy than either of the preceding .
In their situation , with respect to other rocks , we may observe the same law .
The general rule of super-position , reckoning from below upwards , is , 1 .
granite ; 2 .
schistus ; 3 .
limestone .
This rule has been found to hold good by so many mineralogical travellers that , though it may not be absolutely universal , it must be allowed to prevail very extensively .
Now , in this island there are numerous instances where basaltes is substituted in the series instead of granite , and where it seems to alternate with granite as the substratum of other rocks .
On the road from Dolgelly in Merionethshire , by Mallwhyd and Cann 's Office , through Llanfair to Welchpool , schistus appears always incumbent on whinstone , except sometimes when the latter is interjected between the strata , or squeezed up through fissures .
In Wales the country is so hilly , that the limestone , if it existed , has probably been washed away ; but on the confines of England it comes in .
The road from Welchpool to Shrewsbury passes over the side of the Long Mountain , which consists of schistus ; on the left , or towards the east , rise some considerable basaltic hills .
The strata of the Long Mountain point towards the summit of these hills , as if the narrow valley that intervenes had been cut by water upon the lifted edge of the schistus .
At a small distance from the north and south sides of the basaltic hills calcareous strata are found .
Beyond Shrewsbury , on the road to London , we have , instead of the continued ridges of Wales , a number of insulated , and generally rugged , points , rising over the face of Shropshire and the adjacent counties .
Were the plains covered with water a few yards in depth , these eminences would appear from distance to distance like so many stepping stones .
They all , except the Malvern Hills , which , though composed of granite , I consider as part of the same system , consist of whinstone .
Among these stepping stones I reckon the basaltic hills near Welshpool , the Wrekin , Lilleshall Hill , and , at a greater distance towards the East , the rising grounds near Newcastle in Staffordshire , whence the whin rock , perhaps , communicates by the toadstone of Derbyshire , through the hills in the North of England with the whinstone towards the South of Scotland .
In a south or south-west direction from the Wrekin , a number of craggy eminences arise .
They are basaltes , and form a striking contrast with the smooth , rounded , and lumpish swells of schistus in their neighbourhood .
From the whin rocks near Stretton we may pass by the Brown and Titterstone Clee Hills ( on the latter of which are regular prismatic columns ) to the Malvern Hills .
About these hills lie strata of schistus and limestone , as is seen on the road from Much Wenlock to Stretton .
To the south-east an extensive field of whinstone , with occasional elevations , is spread over the confines of Worcestershire , Warwickshire , and Staffordshire .
Here we have the Rowley ragstone .
Whether the basaltes proceeds southward by such interruptions till it join the Elvin or whinstone , and granite of Devonshire and Cornwall , where I imagine they may be found incorporated , I wish for an opportunity to examine .
In the plain part of this whole district , the whin rock appears frequently at the surface , or a little below the strata , so that the hills have probably a subterraneous communication with one another , and there needed but a little more lifting force to form continued ranges of mountains .
The road from Welshpool to Birmingham , above threescore miles , is repaired in a great measure with whinstone .
A colonnade of basaltes has been lately exposed in digging the Shropshire canal ; and in the mining country around , levels have been driven in the black rock , as it is sometimes called .
As I have seen whinstone and slate in various other parts of North and South Wales , the whole western side of our island has probably been raised by the basaltes on which the superficial strata now rest , though from particular circumstances the fused mass has now and then crystallized into granite ; and as it has been conjectured , that the basaltes of Ireland once joined that of the Scotch isles and the main land itself , so perhaps the basaltes of North Wales joined the Irish coast till the sea worked its way or broke in , and destroyed the continuation .
As limestone is sometimes said to rest immediately on granite * , so at the foot of the Wrekin , and at Lilleshall Hill , no slate is interposed between the limestone and basaltes ; so that the analogy extends even to the exceptions .
But another-series has been observed , which seems to connect granite by a closer the with the operations of subterraneous fire .
In Italy lava stands to slate and limestone in the same relation as granite and whinstone in other countries ~ .
Whole ridges of mountains in the Venetian territory consist of solid lava , sometimes almost bare , sometimes retaining the superincumbent strata , with several local variations ; all of which are reducible to a greater or less degree of lifting force .
These * BORN'S Letters , p. 207 .
~ FERBER , l. c. pp. 42 .
51 .
; and especially STRANGE , l. c. p. 24-32 .
chains have a totally different form from the common conical shape of volcanos or heaps of loose ejected matters .
They seem to afford a clear instance of the manner in which long continuations of mountains have been elevated ; for it is not easy to admit the supposition of the observer , who has so accurately described them , that the limestone has been converted into lava ; and that the ridges existed , such as they appear at this day , before this change was produced by subterraneous fire .
Chemical and mechanical considerations are unfavourable to this hypothesis ; and ` ` since most of these branches , whether marine , volcanic , or mixed , preserve nearly the same external characters , directions , and parallelism ; ' ' it appears highly probable , that they have not pre-existed as hills in another state , but owe their elevation to the expansive force of fire ; and that the same lava which appears in so many places lies also under all the limestone hills , of which indeed there are evident indications .
Several modern travellers have described the strata of granite mountains ; but neither in their descriptions nor drawings have I been able to find satisfactory evidence of this arrangement ; nor have I observed it in nature .
A liquid mass swelled by heat must crack in cooling .
Granite seems to me to have cracked most frequently like the basalte en tables ; and these flat masses have been taken for strata .
A stratum , consisting of proper materials to form whinstone or granite , may have been exposed to the necessary degree of heat , and possibly have undergone this change without much relative local derangement .
Should such a stratum be discovered , it would afford no proof of the stratification of the great mountains of granite or shapeless whinstone , which , in consequence of its nuK 2 merous merous sissures in all directions , sometimes assumes enough of this appearance to impose on an unwary eye .
One consequence of these observations is too important to be omitted .
They lead us to reject the common division of mountains into primary and secondary .
The chains of granite , schistus , and limestone , must be all coeval ; for if the central chain of the Alps burst as a body expanded by heat from the bowels of the earth , it reared the bordering chains at the same effort .
But it must be recollected , that the mountains no longer wear their original form , vallies having been cut between and through them , and various other effects of dilapidation having taken place .
It is by no means difficult to understand why no exuviae of organized bodies are found in these imaginary primitive mountains .
Rising from a great depth , they threw aside the superficial accumulations of the ancient ocean .
What was deepest is therefore now most central ; and what lay on the surface now skirts the high interior chains .
Hence the strata rest indifferently on granite , basaltes , or lava ; all which substances derive from their situation an equal claim to be regarded as primordial materials .
It is a little surprising , that this inveterate error , which has effectually barred the way to all great discoveries in geology till of late * , should have prevailed so long : for , 1 .
it is well known , that granite is sometimes found enclosing pieces of schistus ~ ; nor are long stretches of slate uncommon in mountains of granite ~ .
Now , how can a secondary be so enveloped in a primitive rock ?
and how easy is this to be understood , if we suppose granite as a fused mass raising , rending , * Till Dr. HUTTON'S Theory of the Earth , Edinb .
Trans. Vol. I. appeared .
~ BORN'S Letters , p. 207 , 208 .
~ HAIDINGER , l. c. p. 18 .
and shivering the incumbent strata , while its heat hardened them into laminated stone .
2 .
Supposing granite mountains previously existing in the ancient ocean , the inclination of the incumbent strata , and their disarrangement is such that they could never have been deposited as they appear at present ; they would have been much more horizontal in their direction .
It seems impossible to attribute the disorderly deviation , which is so general in the mountains of slate , &amp;c. from that position which all sediments from water assume , to any thing but a force lifting from below , and sometimes bursting through .
It is moreover certain , that all these lifting masses , from granite to acknowledged lava * , are found squeezed up through fissures formed in the strata by their own expansion .
This , and not the infiltration of water , as M. DE SAUSSURE would persuade us ~ , appears to be the true origin of such veins of granite .
* FERBER , l. c. p. 51 .
~ Voyages dans les Alps , 4to , I. 532-536 .
The whole passage well deserves the notice of those who are interested in these enquiries .
Vertical strata , in one instance , lying against the foot of a granite mountain , are divided by oblique fissures , full of granite .
This naturalist supposes them to have filled up gradually by the rain water dissolving particles of granite , carrying them down and depositing them in the form of granite again ; two operations which one may safely deny to rain water the power of performing .
Other insuperable objections to this theory start up at every step in the description .
If water can dissolve any , it is surely but a very small part of all the ingredients of granite .
Now , suppose a fissure full of such a solution ; the water is , I suppose , to evaporate , and the crystallization to take place ; the crystals must be small , on account of the small quantity of matter to form them , and a succeeding solution can only yield another crop of small crystals , it will not enlarge those already formed ; but we are told , that the crystals of granite in the crevices in question are remarkably large .
This has always appeared to me a chemical demonstration of the falsehood of a very common supposition , that the crystals often occurring in the cavities of the amygdaloides rocks have been formed by the infiltration of water .
The crystals are frequently of so large a size that you can by no means suppose the quantity of water , at any one time existing in the cavity , could have held the solid matter , of which they consist , in solution .
Now , I think , it is contrary to all our experience in chemistry , to suppose crystals built up by successive operations .
If upon crystals of nitre I pour a solution of the same salt , the former crystals will not be enlarged and amended , but a new set will be formed ; so successive quantities of water , passing through these cavities , ought to form successive sets of very small crystals .
Neither can I imagine , what causes can produce within these cavities a deposition of the matter once dissolved by the water .
It is not cooled ; it does not evaporate ; it loses no fixed air ; it comes in contact with no new matter , whose attraction may overpower the attraction of the water .
The divisions , ` ` rather marked out than formed , which cross each other irregularly ( p. 533 .
) , and indicate an incipient retraction , ' ' are much more consistent with a simultaneous congelation than a gradual apposition ; and the granite is the same as that of the contiguous hill in the colour and appearance of its constituent parts .
This coincidence is a striking fact .
In truth , the philosophers who attribute the formation of granite to water seem not to have advanced a step in their proof beyond the equivocal circumstance of its being a crystallized mass .

