1881.1 On the Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
33 3 June 16 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
rpjje Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Professor William Edward Ayrton , Mr. Henry Walter Bates , Dr. John Syer Bristowe , Mr. William Henry Mahoney Christie , Professor Herbert McLeod , Mr. John Arthur Phillips , Mr. William Henry Preece , Rev. Henry William Watson , and Dr. Charles R. Alder Wright were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Differences in the Physiological Effects produced by the Poisons of certain species of Indian Venomous Snakes .
" By A. J. Wall , M.D. ( Lond. ) , Surgeon H.M. Tndia.n Army .
Communicated by Sir Joseph Fairer , M.D. , K.C.S.I. , F.R.S. Received May 2 , 1881 .
Hitherto no clear distinction has been recognised to exist between the actions of the poisons of the various species of venomous reptiles .
It will be the object of this paper to examine closely the symptoms produced by these poisons in order to detect any differences that may be present , and to see if the poisonous agents can be classified according to their physiological effects .
As poisonous reptiles admit of a simple anatomical classification into colubrine and viperine , one member of each group will he taken .
It will be convenient to begin with the cobra , which is one of the most virulent and best known of colubrine venomous snakes .
I.\#151 ; The Physiological Effects of the Poison of the Cobra ( Naja Tripudians ) .
In order to exhibit the effect of this venom , it will he necessary to detail the results that follow when animals of different classes have been poisoned by this snake .
Experiment I. At 10.46 a.m. , a pariah dog was bitten in the thigh by a cobra .
11.14 a.m. Very lame in the bitten limb .
2 a 2 334 Dr. A. J. Wall. .
On [ June 1 ( \gt ; , 11.27 A.M. Affected by the poison .
Staggers when he attempts to walk .
Chewing movement of the jaw and lips .
11.28 A.M. Salivation .
11.30 a.m. Pupils somewhat small .
11.31 a.m. Attempting to vomit .
11.35 a.m. Respiration becoming slower .
11.37 a.m. Respirations 16 per minute .
11.38 a.m. Copious salivation .
11.39 A.M. Respirations fallen to 12 per minute .
11.42 a.m. Tongue hanging out of the mouth .
11.43 to 11.46 .
Convulsions .
11.47^ a.m. Respiration completely ceased .
Pupils dilating .
11.49 a.m. Heart stopped .
Dead .
Experiment A fine large cock had 2 mgrms .
of dried cobra poison in solution injected into its leg .
3.13 p.m. Injection .
3.20 p.m. Respirations 30 per minute .
3.38 p.m. Head drooping as if the neck were too weak to support it ; but from time to time the head is raised with a jerk .
3.41 p.m. Respirations 25 ; can barely stand .
3.48 p.m. Respiratory movement very slight .
3.50 p.m. Cannot stand .
3.55 p.m. Respirations 19 ; pupils somewhat contracted .
4.3 p.m. Respirations 16 ; movement exaggerated .
4.5 p.m. Comb has become of a dusky purple colour ; slight convulsive movements of the body .
4.9 p.m. Respirations 9 .
4.17 p.m !
Convulsions .
4.20 to 4.22 p.m. Convulsions continuing , but gradually becoming less violent .
4 25 p.m. Pupils widely dilated .
Dead .
Experiment III .
A medium-sized frog ( liana tigrina ' ) had 5 cgrms .
of dried cobra poison dissolved in water , injected into its dorsal sac :\#151 ; 12.42 p.m. Injection .
1.23 p.m. Struggling violently to escape .
1.40 P.M. Becoming paralysed .
1.53 p.m. Dead .
In these three experiments the effects of cobra poison on mammals , birds , and amphibia , are well shown .
But as the symptoms in man , owing to the differences in his nervous system , are peculiar , it is requisite to give an outline of the results of cobra poisoning in his 1881 .
] Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
335 ^e .
The one selected is condensed from Dr. Hilson 's account Indian Medical Gazette , " October , 1873 ) . .
' , , 1 a -punkah coolie was bitten by a cobra on the right shoulder about half-past 12 o'clock at night .
He immediately felt an acute burning pain on the spot , which increased in severity .
A quarter of an hour afterwards he said he was beginning to feel intoxicated , but seemed auite rational , and answered questions intelligently .
The pupils were natural , the pulse normal , and the respiration was easy .
He next began to lose power in his legs , and staggered .
Half an hour after .
he was bitten his lower jaw began to fall , and frothy and viscid saliva to run from his mouth , and he spoke indistinctly , like a man under the influence of liquor , and the paralysis of the legs increased .
Forty minutes after the bite he began to moan and shake his head from side to side , and the pulse and respiration were somewhat accelerated .
He was unable to answer questions , but appeared to be quite conscious , and his arms were not paralysed .
The breathing then became slower and slower , and finally ceased about one hour and ten minutes after the bite , the heart beating for about one minute longer .
From these cases , and from the evidence given by other experiments , we can draw up a summary of the chief facts to be noticed during cobra poisoning .
The first manifestation of cobra poison having been injected beneath the skin is a sensation of pain in the bitten5part .
The evidence of pain occurring in animals is very clear ; the animal turns and licks the spot , and if it is the leg that is wounded it either limps on that leg or , what is more usual , draws it up so as to ease it .
^ This action has been termed paralysis of the bitten leg , due to the local contact of the poison with the muscles .
Now , though it can be proved that the local effect of cobra poison on muscle is to weaken it , yet after the bite of a cobra a very small extent indeed of muscle comes in contact with the poison\#151 ; very often none at all ; and if the limb were really paralysed it would hang uselessly down , dragging upon the ground , instead of heing drawn up .
This pain is accompanied by , or rather is dependent on , a very characteristic local condition , that is worthy of careful attention .
If the body of a man or animal killed by snake-bite be examined , there may be scarcely a sign to mark the spot where the snake bit a scratch or puncture may apparently be the extent of the injury .
If an incision be made through the skin and carried through the punctures , very little change will be found in the true skin .
It may be somewhat more injected with blood than normal , and the punctures will be found to be intensely so just at their edges , and a small quantity of blood may be effused there .
But the areolar tissue lying beneath the true skin is the site of the chief changes .
It will frequently be found to be of a purple colour , and to be infiltrated with a large quantity of 336 Dr. A. J. Wall .
the [ June 16 , coagulable purple blood-like fluid .
In addition the whole of the neighbouring vessels are intensely injected .
This injection gradually lessens as the site of the poisoned part is receded from , so that a bright scarlet ring surrounds the purple area , and this , in its turn , fades into the normal colour of the neighbouring tissue .
At the margin also the purple blood-like fluid is replaced by a pinkish serum , which may often be traced up in the tissues surrounding the vessels that convey the poison to the system .
In one case in which the ' victim was bitten on the hand , I traced this effusion around the veins as high as the elbow .
The local appearances differ considerably in different cases , varying from those excessive ones just described to a mere hyperaemia .
It has been asserted that these changes are merely the result of haemorrhage from the divided vessels .
But this will not account for the pain or for the intense injection of the surrounding parts , or for the fact that should the bite not prove fatal the site of it nearly always suppurates .
The real explanation is that cobra poison is an intense irritant and produces acute inflammation .
Thus , if a small quantity be placed in the eye , the most severe inflammation of the conjunctiva follows .
The existence of this local inflammation is of great value .
It takes place with startling rapidity , one minute or less producing marked hypersemia .
This local hypersemia is , therefore , the first indication that we can obtain that snake poison has really entered the system .
As life itself depends upon the rapidity with which snake poisoning can be recognised , it will be seen that this is a matter of the greatest practical importance .
' An interval now occurs before any fresh symptom is noticed , but the length of it varies greatly in different cases .
In dogs bitten by cobras the average of four experiments gave*18-2 minutes as the length of this interval .
It is not possible to determine with exactitude the average length of this period in man , but in the case given it was fifteen minutes , in another instance reported by the same observer it was an hour and fifteen minutes ; and an eye-witness , who evidently described a case with great accuracy as to details , stated four hours passed before any change was noticed .
The evidence available on the subject makes it probable that an interval of an hour is the average of this period in man .
This pause , it can be proved , depends on two separate factors .
The one factor is the time required for the absorption of the poison ; for it is lessened by the poison being injected simultaneously into several different sites .
The other is ' clearly dependent on some secondary change produced by the poison for which time is necessary ; for if the part into which the poison has been injected be excised before the occurrence of a single constitutional symptom , yet , nevertheless , the animal may die apparently as rapidly as if no interference had been 1881 .
] Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
337 \#166 ; attempted ; showing that the mere presence of the poison in the blood , eren in sufficient quantity to kill , is not capable of producing directly a physiological effect .
On the other hand , to prevent grave misconception , it should be stated that it is quite possible to save life by .excision of the bitten part , if it be done sufficiently quickly to prevent any considerable absorption .
The symptoms once developed follow one another with great rapidity .
In man a feeing 'f intoxication appears to be the first constitutional effect of the poison .
It is very generally complained of , but not universally , as it would require some intelligence on the victim s part to mention it .
It is not possible to get evidence of a purely subjective condition in animals .
In man the next symptom is loss of power in the legs .
There is first staggering , then inability to support the body , and finally there is complete incapacity to move the lower limbs .
At the same time there is scarcely any loss of power in the arms , which may remain completely under the influence of the will .
The exact nature of the action of cobra poison on the nervous system is , however , a very difficult subject .
Sir Joseph Fairer and Dr. Brunton , m their valuable series of papers on the subject , maintain that though the greater part of the nervous system is affected , yet the terminations of the motor nerves suffer especially , and in a very marked manner .
They base their reasoning on the results produced by experiments m which the excitability of two nerves of the same animal is tested , one of which has been subjected to the action of the poison , and the ot er has been kept from the contact with the poisoned blood by the limb to which it is distributed being ligatured , the nerve , however , being left intact .
These experiments I have repeated with , however , some differences in the arrangements , with the result that though the poisoned limb lost its excitability to a very much greater extent than the non-poisoned limb , yet the spinal cord , as long as it was capable of stimulation at all , could convey stimulation to the poisoned and tin-poisoned nerve , but that the excitability of the cord was exceedingly quickly lost .
These results would imply that the terminations of the motor nerves only suffered , pari passu , with the cord itself , and that there is no special elective affinity for the endings of the nerves .
Nor are the/ results of the experiments of Sir Joseph Fairer and Dr. Brunton incompatible with this view .
For when one thigh of the subject of the experiment was ligatured , and the other was poisoned , when the cord was excited by a current , the stimulus had to be transmitted to the non-poisoned leg through the trunk of the nerve which was unaffected ; whereas on the other leg it had to ^ overcome the resistance induced by the paralysing poison .
There is no need to suppose a special effect of the poison on the ends of the motor nerves , the different lengths of the trunks affected would account for a con333 Dr. A. J- Wall .
On the [ June 16 siderable difference .
To this we have also to add the paralysing effect on muscle , which , though not so great as on the nerve , is yet not unimportant , and would tell on the same side .
Moreover , it does not follow that because a nerve to which poison has had access conveys electrical stimuli in a very imperfect manner , or not at all , therefore the effect of that poison has been to paralyse the nerve .
It is unfortunate that the only test we have of the vitality of a nerve is its power of causing contraction in a muscle when irritated by electricity or mechanically .
It would be going too far to say , therefore , that because a nerve did not transmit such rude stimuli it was dead ; and when an animal loses the power of withdrawing a member that is being painfully stimulated , , the break in the power of conducting impressions or stimuli may be-in any part of the nervous chain involved , or may be distributed equally throughout .
A poison also that produces death by totally different means than paralysis may yet cause in the nerves a complete deadness to stimuli .
Experiment The right thigh of a frog ( Bana tigrina ) was ligatured , so as to completely prevent circulation through the limb , the nerve being included in the ligature .
Two cgrms .
of strychnia in solution were then injected into its dorsal sac .
12.53 p.m. Injection .
12.56 p.m. Tetanus .
1.10 p.m. Reflex action ceased .
1.23 p.m. Muscles of right leg infinitely sensitive .
1.25 p.m. Muscles of left ( poisoned ) leg contract with 0'75 volt .
1.39 p.m. Right ( unpoisoned ) sciatic nerve infinitely sensitive , , causes muscular contraction with less than '0001 volt .
How strychnia certainly does not kill by paralysis , and yet the difference between the poisoned and the non-poisoned sides in regard to their nerves was more marked than was recorded in similar experiments made with cobra poison .
In another frog this difference was very pronounced before the strychnia had ceased to produce tetanus , o that it occurs long before exhaustion has taken place .
The complete interference with the vital functions produced by tetanus is the real cause of death , and the deadening of the nerves is simply the result of the excessive nervous discharges that have taken place through them .
Thus , though the trunk or extremity of a nerve may be found paralysed , it does not follow that it is the direct action of a poison that may be present , or that it was the paralysis that caused death .
In cobra poisoning also it is possible to get very distinct evidence of sensation long after the nervous centres of organic life have been so Ii88l .
] Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
339 completely destroyed by poison , as to render the animal dependent on artificial respiration for life .
q In this direction another point must be taken into account , it has salready been stated that one of the most characteristic features of cobra poisoning in the human subject is paralysis of the legs .
The { patient is unable to walk or to stand , though his arms have not as yet Experienced any loss of power .
Now , it would be difficult to suppose Sthat this was due to the terminations of the motor nerves of the legs S becoming paralysed , while those of the arms remain unaffected .
It is much more probable that the spinal cord is becoming paralysed , one of the first effects of which would be that it would lose the power of [ maintaining the tone and necessary contraction in the many complex !
groups of muscles on which the upright posture is dependent .
But in cobra poisoning in dogs paralysis of the hind limbs without the fore is rarely seen .
In the vast majority of cases power is lost simultaneously in all four members .
In those few cases in which it has been noticed that the hind legs have suffered first , the animal has been bitten on the hind leg , which would always cause a certain | amount of lameness and difficulty in walking with the hind quarters , | due to the local effect of the poison .
But even with this source of I fallacy it holds good that in men suffering from cobra poisoning paraplegia is a most constant symptom , whereas it is very exceptional in dogs .
The reason of this great dissimilarity is to be found in the different functions of the inferior portion of the spinal cord in the two cases .
In man the lower portion of the cord is , to a great extent , a distinct nervous centre .
The ganglia there not only are the centres on which the lower limbs rely for their nerve power to maintain the upright posture , but the sensation of contact with the ground of one foot in walking is translated in these lower centres into a motor stimulus to excite movement in the other leg , and paralysis affecting these centres would at once destroy the process .
But in dogs the mechanism is very different .
They move the foreleg of one side with the hindleg of the other .
It is necessary , then , that the centres | governing the movements in these limbs should be coupled so to | speak\#151 ; together .
The stimulus that moves the foreleg of one side has to excite simultaneous movement in the hind leg of the other .
Therefor^ the posterior extremity of the cord has in the dog merely to transmit the motor impulse from the forepart , whereas in man it has to translate sensations into stimuli to excite movement , and this in man is the first faculty destroyed by cobra poison .
It is , therefore , probable that the earliest injury inflicted on the nervous system by cobra poison is a paralysis of the centres in the lower part of the spinal cord .
The next symptoms of cobra poisoning are very characteristic .
The patient loses power of speech , of swallowing , of moving the lips , the Dr. A. J. Wall .
the [ June 16 tongue becomes motionless and bangs out of the mouth , and the saliva which is secreted in large quantities runs down the face , the patient being equally unable to swallow it or to eject it .
It is singular that the striking resemblance of these symptoms to the disease known as glosso-laryngeal paralysis has not been previously noticed .
Now , the preponderance of opinion attributes this latter disease to lesion of certain tracts in the medulla oblongata .
It cannot , therefore , be thought anything but reasonable to connect both diseases with paralysis of those centres in the medulla oblongata which are so closely associated together , and which are in connexion with the roots of the vagus , the spinal accessory , and the hypoglossal nerves , and the lower nucleus of the facial .
But the resemblance does not end here .
In both diseases the respiration becomes feebler and feebler , and the victim at last dies suffocated .
In other words the lesion in the one case , and the paralysing poison in the other , have invaded the respiratory nucleus so near to the centres they have already destroyed , and have thus rendered the respiratory act difficult , and at last impossible .
Lastly , after all the lower centres have been completely paralysed , the one by which connexion is made with the second , fifth , and seventh nerves still acts , and the eye is closed when touched , and even when approached , after the animal is dependent on artificial respiration for life .
For these reasons it seems natural to conclude that the principal action of cobra poison on the nervous system consists of an extinction of function , extending from below upwards , of the various nerve-centres constituting the cerebrospinal system ; but in addition to this , there is a special and rapid action on the respiratory and allied nuclei , and it is to this special action that death is to be attributed in most cases of cobra poisoning .
In very rapid cases of poisoning , when a very large quantity of poison has entered the circulation at once , instead of the gradual extinction of function of the cerebro-spinal centres , the poison appears to act almost immediately by stopping the action of the respiratory centre .
There is , of course , no time then to watch the gradual extension of the influence of the poison on the nervous system .
In these cases , the slight stimulation of the centres which almost always precedes the paralysis , instead of being represented by slight irregular contractions of the muscles , is exaggerated into violent clonic convulsions , but they are almost instantly followed by complete paralysis .
The action of the cobra poison on the respiration is of the deepest importance in the light it throws on the special action of the poison , and its relation to other poisons .
The first change that is noticed in the breathing of an animal after the introduction of cobra poison , is a decided quickening and deepening of the respiratory movements .
Sir Joseph Fairer and Dr. Brunton have shown that this effect is no longer to be perceived after section of both vagi .
The inhibitory effect of section of the vagi may be too power1881 .
] Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
No. 1 .
I .Tracings of Respiratory Movements of a Fowl under gradual Cobra Poisoning .
Slightly exaggerated breathing .
Commencing slowing .
Slowing greater .
Sudden and abrupt inspiration and expiration .
Great slowness .
Convulsions commencing .
Dr. A. J. Wall .
On [ June I6r No. 2.\#151 ; Respiratory Tracings from a Fowl that died very rapidly from a large dose of Cobra Poison .
The tracings are nearly continuous .
Quickened .
Slightly lessened excursus .
Eespiration ceased\#151 ; Convulsions .
[ Sgqi Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes.343 L , to allow of the accelerating action of the poison hemg perceived .
Quickening , however produced , is merely temporary , and is Xtd by rtmrdaUon .
The Amplest form in which to see the effect of cobra poisoning on respiration is afforded by the common fow .
; le stethometric chart , marked No. 1 , gives in a concise manner the effects of cobra poisoning when the action is very gradua .
' The main points to be noticed are the slight qmckenmg first periled , and the increase of the excursus .
These are followed by Oto increasing retardation with a certain amount of lessening of ae excursus , though the excursus is less affected than the frequency .
It is also to be noticed that inspiration becomes sudden and abrupt , and is immediately followed by an expiration equally sudden The movement that remains is , therefore , peculiarly unfavourable for respiration .
In the end the respiratory movement is entirely abolished , and after a panse the convulsions of asphyxia terminate life .
Chart No. 2 presents some contrasts of interest .
It gives nearly the whole course of the respiratory movements of a fowl from the injection of the poison tiU death , in a case in which a large amount of cobra poison was given , causing death very rapidly .
From it will be seen how very much more pronounced the acceleration is when a large quantity of poison is given , and that when the stage of acceleration is passed the excursus is lessened quite as rapidly as the frequency .
The respirations before the administration of the poison bear to the respirations at their greatest degree of acceleration in the tracing TV a ratio of 4 to 7 .
Chart No. 3 is a series of tracings from a large pariah dog , the acceleration followed by retardation , and the accompanying diminution of excursus are well shown , but the chief points of interest are in the tracings of the occurrence of convulsions ; they beg1* 7 regular contractions of the inspiratory muscles , in the penod ot_t ear greatest violence they lose all respiratory character , and then gradua y fade away in gentler and gentler attempts at inspiration , he cat is an animal that shows a peculiar power of resisting cobra poison , presenting a marked contrast to the dog .
Chart No. 4 is from a cat m whom this resisting power was well shown .
After the retardation of I respiration is accomplished , it will be noticed that an occasional deep respiration occurred ; it is as if the animal , aware o its essenmg breathing power , made conscious efforts to assist respira ion .
S similar feature appears to have been frequently notice in e subject under like circumstances .
The series of tracings m O ar No. 5 shows graphically the instantly destructive character o co poison on the respiratory function . .
They were taken from a dog on whom the following observations were made .
Experiment .
A powerful pariah dog had 1 cub. centim. of fresh cobra poison 344 Dr. A. J. Wall .
On the [ June 1( ; No. 3.\#151 ; Tracings of Respiratory Movements of a Dog with Cobra Poisoning .
Normal but deep respiration .
Quickened .
Movement greatly lessened .
Convulsions .
Termination of convulsions .
Ujggji Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
345 4___Tracings of the Respiratory Movements of a Cat under the Influence of Cobra Poison .
Commencing slowing .
Occasional deep inspiration .
Bespiration barely perceptible .
Convulsions .
346 Dr. A. J. Wall .
[ June 16 injected into its saphena vein .
No change was noticed for thirt seconds , at the end of that time normal respiration abruptly stopped i its place being taken by violent and irregular contractions of the respiratory muscles .
The heart 's action continued strong , but increased greatly in frequency .
Very soon all movement ceased , with the exception of that of the heart , which continued acting for about ten seconds longer .
The whole time from injection to death was under 100 seconds .
Chart No. 5 is a continuous tracing of the respiration of this animal from the administration of the poison till death .
It will be seen that the normal respiratory rhythm is suddenly displaced by violent alternate upheavings and depressions of the chest walls , and that then all movement ceases suddenly .
But it will be noticed that the convulsions , though of course irregular , have a distinct respiratory character .
When cobra poison enters the blood rapidly and in large quantity , its first action is to stimulate the respiratory centre so as to cause more irregular respiratory movements , and then one might almost say simultaneously it paralyses it completely , the heart acting for a short time longer .
This , however , is not the usual course of -events .
A much more common method is the one depicted in the stethometric charts , Nos. 1 , 2 , and 3 , where a fair amount of cobra poison is gradually absorbed , as from the bite of a cobra , and where there is in consequence gentle primary acceleration of respiration , with gradual lessening of its rapidity and excursus , and death with convulsions .
In still more gradual cases , the primary acceleration is very faint , and the diminution of the respiratory function very gradual , and there is often an attempt\#151 ; half conscious\#151 ; to fight against the poison by occasional deep inspirations ; at last respiration is arrested , and generally without convulsions , the heart stops after a short interval .
This appears to be the usual course in man .
On the circulation , cobra poison cannot be said to exercise a very great influence .
The heart nearly always acts for some little time after respiration has ceased , and if the place of normal respiration be supplied by artificial means , the heart will continue acting for very many hours .
On the temperature , also , no decided effect can be determined .
There may be a slight rise or even fall , but in several cases , watched carefully for the purpose , no change was observed .
Nor is there any noticeable effect on the special senses , the poisoned animal appears to hear and see perfectly .
The pupil of the eye is also unaffected , and answers to light .
If life be preserved by artificial respiration , the pupil remains somewhat contracted .
I once noticed the pupil remain contracted after death from cobra poisoning , in which long continued artificial respiration had been resorted to .
On secretion , generally , cobra poison has great influence ; nearly all secreting tissues are stimulated by it .
The lachrymal glands act Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
5.__Continuous Tracing of Respiratory Movements of Dog from the moment of Intravenous Injection of Cobra Poison till Death .
freely , and salivation is a most marked and constant symptom .
It is rarely absent either in men or in dogs .
Saliva often runs in streams from the mouth .
The whole of the mucous tract is also in an active state of secretion .
After the stomach has been thoroughly emptied by vomiting , the animal will often bi*ing up repeatedly large quantities of mucus , and mucous discharges are also frequently evacuated from the rectum .
The respiratory mucous membrane is also similarly affected .
Little can be known of its action on the liver or kidneys , the time of observation being so short ; in the more chronic cases the kidneys often-act freely , but sometimes there is a diminution of urine .
There is but little evidence of the effect of cobra poisoning on the blood .
The blood is clearly the carrier of the poison to the system , and it is necessary for it to be some short time present in the blood VOL. XXXII .
2 B Dr. A. J. Wall .
On the [ June 16 , before a physiological effect is produced , except in those rare cases in which an overwhelming quantity of poison is injected into a vein directly .
In man , after cobra poisoning , the blood is nearly always found incoagulable , though in animals , especially dogs , the blood generally coagulates as usual .
That there is no great change in the blood is evident from the fact that , when an animal has survived the nerve symptoms produced by cobra poison , it is found to be quite well and to suffer no further inconvenience from blood poisoning or other causes .
Experiment VI .
A large pariah dog had 5 mgrms .
of dried cobra poison dissolved in water injected into its hind leg .
12.12 .
p.m. Injection .
4 p.m. Vomited , 7.30 p.m. Salivated .
Looks depressed .
10.15 p.m. Still depressed ; salivation slight ; respirations 14 .
12.5 a.m. Still salivated ; very depressed .
8 a.m , Very weak , hardly able to walk ; all the legs equally affected .
8.25 a.m. Respirations 12 ; pupils somewhat dilated , but contract to light .
Site of injection very red , hot , and swollen .
11.30 A.M. Respirations 15 ; frothy salivation , 12 p.m. Rectal temperature , 39 ' C. 12.38 p.m. Pulse about 120 , extremely irregular ; chewing movement of jaw and lips ; salivation considerable .
2.21 p.m. Better , can walk , salivation ceased ; ate sparingly .
7.30 P.M- Recovering fast .
Urinated\#151 ; no albumen in the urine .
8 a.m. Seems quite well .
Purulent discharge from the site of the injection ; respirations 20 , pulse 120 .
The dog was kept under observation but remained quite well .
The normal pulse rate was 90 and respirations 28 .
Here , though the most severe nerve symptoms were present , when they passed off the animal was quite well , and suffered no further inconvenience .
The same also occurs in the human subject .
Dr. Vincent Richards relates a case of cobra poisoning , from his own observation , in which a man lost completely all power over his legs , was unable to speak , to move the lips , or to swallow , and where there was profuse salivation , and yet after a few hours complete recovery ensued , the man by the next day being well .
The microscope also gives no evidence of structural change in the blood .
In cobra poisoning , also , albumen in the urine is unknown .
In animals that have suffered most severely from nerve symptoms in which I have tested the urine , albumen has not been present in a single case either fatal or non-fatal .
When , however , artificial respiration has been performed for some fPJl.l Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
349 time after apparent death , it is not unusual for blood to be present m the urine ; but if the kidneys are examined in these cases the wonder will be not that blood was found in the urine , but that any urine was secreted at all , so great is the renal congestion .
This circumstance can , therefore , hardly be taken as evidence of blood change , *nd coupled with the fact of the rapid recovery that ensues m cobra poisoning after the nerve symptoms have passed off , leads us to the conclusion that all cases of death from cobra poisoning have their origin in the direct action of the poison on the nerve-centres .
IX.___The Physiological Effects of the Poison of the Daboia Russellii .
The Daboia Russellii , or Russell 's viper , is selected as being an \#166 ; extremely deadly member of the viperine family , and is the best known of the Indian vipers .
The following experiments show the course of the symptoms produced by this snake .
Experiment VII .
A somewhat small pariah dog had a pulse o\#163 ; 88 per minute , respi-rations 30 , rectal temperature 39 C. 3.24 p.m. Bitten by a Dciboia Russellii in the tbigb .
3.28 p.m. General muscular spasm of the most violent character , rail parts of the body taking part .
The animal fell down and rolled .about in convulsions , even the muscles of the eyeballs being affected __jerking the eyes about in the strangest way .
3.30 p.m. Convulsions ceased , complete paralysis of both hindlegs , tries to stand , but can only rest on his forelegs .
3.311 p.M. Contractions of muscles of eyeball continue ; respirations very shallow , 68 ; pupils somewhat dilated .
3.37 P.M. Muscles of eyeball at rest ; seems utterly prostrate and unable to move ; respirations 40 , chiefly abdominal .
3.40 p.m. Respirations 56 , shallow , occasionally a deep sigh .
3.44 p.m. Pupils somewhat dilated but contract to light .
3.47 p.m. Respirations 67 , about every tenth one is very deep .
3.53 p.m. Pulse 156 .
3.56 p.m. Moaning .
Temperature 39''5 C. 4.1 p.m. Respirations 32 ; sighing and moaning , lying '^n Para lysed , sanious discharge from the rectum , pupils widely dilated .
4.9 p.m. Respirations 36 .
, 4.12 p.m. Respiration reduced to a quick inspiratory spasm , o o we by relaxation .
4.15 p.m. Respirations 16 .
4.17 p.m. Dead .
Temperature 39'"4 C. 2 b 2 Dr. A. J. Wall .
On [ June 16 , Experiment VIII .
A small quantity of fresh daboia poison ( about 0*1 cub. centim. ) was injected into the thigh of a pariah dog .
12.20 p.m. Injection .
12.25 p.m. Very lame in the leg in which the injection was made .
12.52 p.m. Very drowsy , unsteady in walking .
12.54 p.m. Pupils widely dilated ; iris only just visible .
12.56 p.m. Moaning .
1 p.m. Panting ; raised himself to a standing posture , but his legs gave way under him , and he fell to the ground .
1.5 p.m. Violent respiratory movements ; respirations 28 .
1.6 p.m. Still able to move his head freely .
1.15 p.m. Tries occasionally to rise .
1.17 P.M. Moaning .
1.20 p.m. Moderately loud screams .
1.25 p.m. Convulsions .
1.34 p.m. Dead .
Experiment IX .
A pariah dog had 5 mgrms .
of dried daboia poison injected subcutaneously , dissolved in 1 cub. centim. of water .
12.56 p.m. Injection .
1.54 p.m. Quite well .
Respirations 44 .
7 p.m. Ate freely .
6 a.m. Looks a good deal depressed .
Respirations 48 a minute .
7.20 A.M. Pupils contracted , panting ; respirations 60 a minute .
8.15 A.M. Panting excessively .
8.30 a.m. Passed a sanious discharge per rectum .
8.45 a.m. Respirations 80 , excessive dyspnoea , blood oozing from mouth .
9.30 a.m. Dead .
After death the fatal dyspnoea was found to be dependent on oedema of the lungs .
Experiment X. A small pariah dog was bitten in the thigh by a small Daboia Russellii .
12.34 p.m. Bitten .
12.35 p.m. Slightly panting .
12.35-g- p.m. Pell over suddenly in violent convulsions , the hindlegs being especially strongly convulsed , pupils contracted .
12.36 p.m. Slight attempt at respiration .
12-39 p.m. Dead .
Prom these experiments it will be seen that there is a great 1881 .
] Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
diversity in the symptoms between different cases of daboia poisoning .
The animal may fall down at once in convulsions and expire as in Experiment X , or it may never have any nerve symptoms at all , but die many hours after from a remote affection as in Experiment IX .
The following experiments throw light on the causes of these differences .
Experiment XI .
A pariah pup had about 01 cub. centim. of fresh daboia poison injected subcutaneously into the shoulder .
12.52 p.m. Injection .
1 p.m. Vomiting .
1.4 p.m. Can stand but cannot walk .
1.8 P.M. Cannot stand ; moaning .
1.11 p.m. Slight sanious discharge from the rectum .
1.15 p.m. Short rapid respiration with an occasional deep inspiration .
1.30 p.m. Respiration very slight .
2.6 p.m. Dead .
Experiment XII .
A pariah pup of the same litter as the one in the last experiment , and as nearly as possible of the same size , had 03 cub. centim. of fresh daboia poison injected into its shoulder subcutaneously .
1.31 p.m. Injection .
1.35 p.m. Fell over in convulsions .
1.37 p.m. Unable to stand .
1.45 p.m. Lying down , is quite paralysed , but occasionally groans .
2.1 p.m. Totally unconscious .
2.16 p.m. Respiration failing .
2.29 p.m. Dead .
In these two dogs , which were of the same age and size , the daboia poison was injected into exactly the corresponding part of each , and subcutaneously ; but , in the latter experiment , three times as much poison was injected as in the former case .
This was the only difference in the two experiments , and the result was that the animal which had the larger quantity of poison suffered in four minutes from violent convulsions , and from that time was quite paralysed ; whilst the other only gradually became paralysed , and had no sign of convulsions at all .
The poison in both cases was from the same viper , and extracted at the same time .
In the same way it can be proved that an equal quantity of poison injected into two animals of different sizes will kill the small one almost instantly in convulsions , but will only cause death after a long interval , and without violent symptoms , in the larger one .
Daboia poison , therefore , commences its constitutional 352 Dr. A. J. Wall .
the [ Jim\#169 ; X6 action by causing convulsions , though a certain proportion of animals will escape them through an insufficient quantity of poison having been injected .
It should be stated here , that the preliminary effects of the poison differ only in degree from those of cobra poisoning .
The local pain appears to be peculiarly acute , and the accompanying inflammation exceedingly severe ; and , from the amount of bloodstained serum effused , might almost be said to have a " specific " character .
The contrast between the effects of the two poisons comes out singularly clearly when birds are selected as the subject of experiment .
J ExperimentXIII .
1 cgrm .
of dried daboia poison was dissolved in 1 cub. centim. of distilled water , and the solution was injected with great care just beneath the skin of the leg of a fowl .
3.10 p.m. Injection .
3.11 p.m* Slightly lame in the leg in which the injection was made .
3.12 p.m. Violent convulsions .
3.12f p.m. Dead .
Experiment XIV .
1 cgrm .
of dried cobra poison dissolved in 1 cub. centim. of distilled water was injected just beneath the skin of a fowl .
3.30 p.m. Injection .
3.34 p.m. Drowsy .
3.36 p.m. Beak resting on the ground ; unable to stand ; eyelids closed , pupils contracted .
3.37 p.m. Unable to lift its head from the ground .
3.40 p.m. Convulsions .
3.42 p.m. Dead .
In these two experiments the greatest care was taken to ensure the conditions being exactly the same ; yet , with daboia poison , the bird died in two and three-quarter minutes with only the occurrence of convulsions ; while , with cobra poison , it died after twelve minutes , and went through the regular course of paralysis .
The convulsions , therefore , are not dependent upon the injection of a large quantity of poison directly into a vein .
The next point to be determined is whether the convulsions are due to asphyxia , like those that often occur after the cessation of respiration from paralysis in cobra poisoning .
Experiment XV .
A fowl had its trachea opened , and a tube in connexion with a bellows for artificial respiration inserted into it .
2 cgrms .
of dried 1881 ] Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
353 daboia poison in solution were then injected subcutaneously into its leg .
Immediately on the injection being completed , artificial respiration was commenced .
2.28 p.m. Injection .
2.23^ p.m. Artificial respiration commenced .
2.26 p.m. Convulsions , in which the bird died .
Here , though ample means were employed to keep the blood oxygenated , the bird died at once in convulsions .
The convulsions of asphyxia that occur after the paralysis of cobra poisoning are removed by artificial respiration .
It is clear , therefore , that the convulsions of daboia poisoning are primary , and in no way due to defective aeration of the blood . . .
, x , , , , .
The convulsions are exceedingly violent in character , the whole ox the voluntary muscular system being affected , even to the muscles of the eyeball .
Sometimes , but rarely , the convulsion is tonic , the muscles clasping , as it were , the frame of the victim .
The convulsions may be due either to the direct action of the poison on the muscles , or on the muscular terminations of the nerves , or on the central nervous ganglia .
The following experiment determines this .
Experiment XVI .
A fowl was placed under the influence of chloroform , and its right crural nerve divided ; the left crural nerve was then isolated , and a ligature placed round all the other structures so as completely to obstruct the circulation , but the nerve was left uninjured .
The moment the bird became conscious , a small quantity of solution of daboia poison was subcutaneously injected into the tissues at the back of the neck .
Almost directly after , convulsions occurred , but , in these convulsions , the muscles supplied by the right or divided nerve took no part , remaining perfectly flaccid , while the muscles of the left leg were violently tetanized .
Here the muscles of the right leg which were freely supplied with the poisoned blood , but the nerve to which was divided , escaped the convulsions ; while those of the left leg , which had no contact with the poisoned blood , but whose nerve was still in communication with the central nervous system , took part in them .
It is evident , therefore , that the convulsions depend upon the direct irritation of the central nervous system by the poison , and in no way on the contact of the poison with the muscles or with the terminations of the nerves .
These primary convulsions occur , in from one to ten minutes after the infliction of the bite , and they may have any degree of severity , from those producing almost instant death to merely a few muscular twitchings .
The course of the symptoms after the convulsions also varies .
Respiration may never be thoroughly re-established , the Dr. A. J. Wall .
[ June lg animal dying very soon , or respiration may recommence , but com-plete general paralysis is found to have supervened , and the animal dies of consequent asphyxia .
It may happen that , for a short time the victim recovers completely from the convulsions , walking about for a few minutes as if nothing had occurred , but the fatal paralysis is only delayed for a short time .
It appears as if daboia poison acted somewhat differently in different classes of the animal kingdom .
Birds are most easily affected , and next to them come the Lacertilia .
Experiment XVII .
About 0-4 cub. centim. of fresh daboia was injected beneath the skin of the upper surface of the tail of a large specimen of versicolor .
The respirations were 54 per minute .
3.49 p.m. Injection .
3.51 p.m. Convulsions .
3.52 p.m. Quite paralysed .
3.53 p.m. Respirations 12 per minute .
3.56 p.m. Respirations 4 per minute .
3.59 p.m. Dead .
Mammals also are very easily affected by the convulsion-producing property of the poison , whereas the Amphibia only have symptoms of gradual paralysis .
Experiment XVIII .
A medium sized frog ( liana , tigri had 1 cgrm .
of dried daboia poison in solution injected into its dorsal sac .
1.12 p.m. Injection .
Violent respiratory efforts .
Fast becoming paralysed .
Completely paralysed .
Dead .
Though birds are so sensitive to the agent in the poison that produces these nervous discharges , that it is difficult to poison them at all without the occurrence of primary convulsions\#151 ; 1 mgrm .
often producing them\#151 ; yet by heating daboia poison in solution to 100 ' C. it loses completely the power of causing this symptom even in them .
4.30 p.m. 4.39 p.m. 4.53 p.m. 5.11 p.m. Experiment XIX .
5 cgrms .
of dried daboia poison in solution were heated for a short time to 100 ' C. The solution was then injected subcutaneously into the leg of a fowl .
12.27 p.m. Injection .
12.34 p.m. Seems drowsy ; eyes closed .
1881.1 Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
12.45 p.m. Breathing rapid .
12.47 p.m. Respiration failing , comb becoming purple .
12.49 p.m. Lying down , head drooping .
12.50 P.M. Fallen over on its side ; respiration fainter .
12.53 p.m. Gasping .
12.56 p.m. Convulsions .
12.58 P.M. Convulsions lessening , f 12.59 p.m. Dead .
Here , though the amount of poison injected was more than fifteen times that required to cause almost instant death from convulsions , simple exposure to a heat of 100 ' C. completely altered the symptoms .
They were those of gradual paralysis which caused the respirations to cease , and the convulsions which occurred at the end of the paralysis were simply the expression of carbonic acid poisoning .
They were secondary , and no longer primary .
Even with the abolition of primary convulsions , however , the symptoms differed materially from those of cobra poisoning .
Should primary convulsions not occur the history is that of advancing paralysis .
The respirations and pulse become greatly accelerated , and there is gradual loss of power in all the limbs ; vomiting may \#166 ; occur .
Sanious discharges issue from the rectum and other parts .
The pupils are usually widely dilated , and the respirations become less and less , and may cease with or without convulsions .
Bat there is a third form of death from daboia poisoning , quite unlike anything that is seen in cobra poisoning .
It occurs in those cases in which but a very small quantity of poison indeed has been injected .
The animal has very few nervous symptoms , very likely none at all ; but on the second day he appears ill , refuses food , has diarrhoea , his urine contains albumen , and he may linger on in this state for days , dying exhausted , or some acute complication may supervene as in Experiment IX , causing death rapidly .
In that case it was an oedematous condition of the lung that proved fatal , whereas in a case recorded in the " Indian Medical Gazette " ( June 1 , 1872 ) , it was a haemorrhagic condition of the system generally .
The snake was evidently from its description the Daboia Russellii , or its congener the Echis carinata .
A Mahomedan , forty years of age , was bitten by a snake on the finger .
The bite was soon after incised , and stimulants given .
The hand and arm became much swollen , and on the same day he passed blood by the rectum , with his urine , and he also vomited blood .
The next day he was sick , and was still passing blood from all the channels .
In this state he remained eight days , losing blood constantly , and dying in consequence exhausted on the ninth day .
In this case no symptoms occurred for many hours , but when they did supervene they increased in severity till the man died from Dr. A. J. Wall .
On the [ June 16 , hemorrhage .
There was no paralysis or any other special symptom The case presents in every detail a complete contrast to Dr. Richards case of cobra poisoning , where for some honrs the patient was in the greatest danger from nerve symptoms , and yet the next day made a full and complete recovery .
This chronic form of dahoia poisoning occurs whenever only a small quantity of dahoia poison is injected .
Experiment A cat had about 5 mgrms .
of daboia poison in solution injected into its leg .
No symptom was noticed for about twelve hours , when it became ill , refused food , had diarrhoea , and remained in this state till the fourth day , when it died .
In regard to the paralysis caused by daboia poison , there a few points to be observed .
It certainly supervenes earlier than in cobra poisoning , but it does not extinguish the respiratory function nearly so soon .
Paraplegia is occasionally noticed in dogs , especially if the hind legs have been much convulsed .
It is probably due to exhaustion of the conducting elements of the cord by the violence of the convulsion-producing discharges .
Care , however , should be taken not to confound it with inability to use the hind quarters occasioned by the pain of the local injection , which appears to be peculiarly severe .
Again , the paralysis of the lips , tongue , larynx , and pharynx , which is so marked a feature in cobra poisoning , is absent in daboia poisoning .
The tongue , instead of being pendulous , is retracted , and the larynx , so far from being paralysed , gives utterance to loud screams , often as long as life lasts , as in Experiment VIII .
It is as if the poison exerted its paralysing influence on the main motor tract , and had not that marked affinity for the respiratory and allied centres that cobra poison has ; a conclusion borne out by the way in which it commences its action , and by the time it takes to extinguish the respiratory function .
The course of the respiration in daboia poisoning is of necessity as varied as there are modes of death from the poison .
Chart No. 6 , from a fowl , gives a typical example of respiration when the primary convulsions are fatal .
It contains nearly all the chest movements from the moment of injection till death .
The first sixteen respirations are normal , the excursus is then slightly increased , and a slight retardation is to be observed ; then without further warning , the most violent convulsions took place , and with them life was extinguished .
It affords corroborative evidence of the fact , that asphyxia has nothing to do with the causation of the convulsions , as respiration is perfectly well performed up to the moment of their occurrence .
Chart No. 7 is from a fowl that was poisoned by daboia poison , which had been heated in solution to 100 ' C. , and so deprived of its power of causing 1881 .
] Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
35T No. g.\#151 ; Tracing of Respiratory Movements in Fowl under the Influence of Daboia Poison .
Respiration after the injection of the poison , but still normal .
Slightly exaggerated breathing , suddenly interrupted by convulsions .
End of convulsions .
convulsions .
The acceleration of the respiratory movements is most remarkable , as is also the way in which the excursus is exaggerated and maintained ; it is only at the very end of life that the respiratory movement is diminished .
Chart No. 8 is from a dog , to which sufficient poison was not given to cause convulsions .
The very much greater acceleration of the Dr. A. J. Wall .
On [ June 16 , No. 7.\#151 ; Tracing of Respiratory Movement in a Fowl under the Influence of Daboia Poison that had been heated to 100 ' C. Normal .
3E Great acceleration .
JSL VAAAAAAAA/ VVVXAAA/ VVVWVVVVVVV -V\ Ayvv\j\A/ \J'AAAAAAAAAA/ VAAAAAAAA Great acceleration with increased excursus .
Lessened excursus .
respiration than can be caused by cobra poisoning is seen , the respirations in I and III being as two to five .
But in IV , a singular condition is to be noticed , that is exceedingly common in daboia poisoning .
It is a , peculiarly deep inspiration , followed immediately by expiration .
It .occurs generally once in every ten or fifteen respirations , and at a 1881* ] Poisons of certain Indian \enomous Snakes .
8\#151 ; Tracings of Respiratory Movements of Dog under Daboia Poisoning .
Normal respiration .
Acceleration .
Respiration still quicker .
Irregular respiration .
Respiration slowing .
End of respiratory movements .
360 Dr. A. J. Wall .
On the [ June 16 time when the animal is often profoundly unconscious .
It is quite characteristic of daboia poisoning , though it is not always present sometimes the whole body taking part in the movement .
After the primary convulsions have occurred , it is exceedingly rare for death to he preceded by the convulsions of asphyxia , the respiratory function appearing gradually to fade away , as in the tracing VI .
In its influence on the temperature and circulation , daboia poison .does not differ materially from cobra poison .
But while cobra poison has no effect on the pupil of the eye , wide dilatation is always , or nearly always , to be seen during some stage of daboia poisoning .
The iris is sometimes barely visible during the primary convulsions .
Over secretion , daboia poison has also some power , though less than cobra poison , and the mucous discharges are nearly always largely mixed with blood .
But salivation , the constant accompaniment of cobra poisoning , is almost unknown in daboia poisoning .
Out of a large number of experiments , I have only seen it once , and in this case it was by no means marked , and might easily have been overlooked , unless special attention had been paid to its occurrence .
In daboia poisoning there is a good deal of evidence to be considered as to the effect of the poison on the blood .
It is almost universally found after death , that the blood has been rendered uncoagulable , the only exceptions being when the animal has died almost instantly in .convulsions , or in those cases where the animal has struggled for a long time against the poison , when the coagulation will be found to be imperfect , as if an attempt towards restoring the normal condition of the blood had been made .
Even in rapid cases of daboia poisoning , we have proof that the relation of the blood to the tissues is altered .
In Experiment VII a sanious discharge occurred thirty-seven minutes after the infliction of the bite .
So grave are these changes in the blood , that they are by far the most frequent causes of death in daboia poisoning ( Experiments IX and XX ) .
The haemorrhages chiefly take place from the rectum and kidneys , but I have seen them from the mouth , and even the skin .
In cobra poisoning albuminuria is unknown , but in- every case of daboia poisoning in which symptoms were present , and in which six hours elapsed before death , I have detected albumen in the urine .
It is generally not in large quantity , but it is quite unmistakeable .
Experiment A solution of about 5 mgrms .
of daboia poison was injected into a .dog .
4 p.m. Injection .
8 a.m. No symptom .
4 p.m. 5 mgrms .
more of daboia poison injected .
9.30 p.m. Affected ; respirations 50 ; pupils widely dilated .
S\amp ; 81.1 Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes .
361 6 a.m. Depressed and ill .
3 p.m. Passed some albuminous urine .
9 p.m. Diarrhoea .
12 p.m. Urine albuminous ; still very ill .
As it was clear that the animal would suffer the usual prolonged course of blood-poisoning , more poison was injected to shorten life .
1.30 p.m. Injection .
3.17 p.m. Cannot stand .
3.20 p.m. Respiration failing .
3.29 p.m. Dead .
There is evidence , therefore , that daboia venom is a most severe blood poison , producing death when not administered in sufficient quantities to cause serious nerve symptoms , and that it is even possible for death to occur early from this cause alone , nerve symptoms not having supervened .
Conclusions\#151 ; The regular course of the symptoms of cobra poisoning is slowly advancing general paralysis , coming on after a well-marked interval without symptoms , with special paralysis of the lips , tongue , larynx , and pharynx , and complete destruction of the respiratory function .
Death is often attended by convulsions , which depend on asphyxia . . .
Daboia poison commences its action by inducing violent general convulsions , which are often at once fatal , or may be followed immediately by paralysis and death , or may also be for a short time recovered from , paralysis and death following later .
These convulsions do not depend on asphyxia , and they may be absent if only a small quantity of poison has been injected .
The paralysis that succeeds is general , and lasts a considerable time before respiration is extinguished , and there is no special paralysis of the lips , tongue , larynx , and pharynx .
^ Cobra poison very quickly destroys respiration ; after slight acceleration the respiration becomes slower , and the excursus is lessened .
Daboia poison at first quickens the respiration very much more than cobra poison does , and the lessening of the excursus , and the retarda-tion of the respiratory movements do not occur so soon .
Daboia poison invariably kills birds and reptiles at once in convulsions ; cobra poisoning only after paralysis .
The effect of cobra poison on the pupil is so small as to be a matter of doubt ; daboia poison causes wide dilatation of the pupil .
Salivation is a constant symptom in cobra poisoning ; it is exceedingly rare in daboia poisoning .
* The effect of cobra poison on the blood is not great , sanious discharges are rare , albuminuria has not been seen , and should the patient not die from the paralysis , recovery is perfect and complete , no symptom being left in a few hours .
362 Mr. A. M. Worthington .
[ June ljJP In daboia poisoning , sanions discharges are the rule ; albuminuria is always found , should the victim live any time , and after the nerve symptoms pass over , the subject has to go through a period of blood poisoning little , if at all , less dangerous than the primary symptoms from which he may die as late as the end of the second week .
Lastly , the physiological properties of daboia poison undergo great change by its being heated to 100 ' C. in solution , whereas cobra poison remains unaltered .
II .
" On Pendent Drops .
" By A. M. Worthington , M.A. Communicated by Professor B. Stewart , F.R.S Received May 16 , 1881 .
[ Plate 7 .
] About two years ago I was led to examine the forms of pendent drops of liquid by a method of great simplicity , which seems capable of being used with considerable accuracy for determining the value of the surface tension .
Previous observers , so far as I am aware , have observed only the weight of drops which fall , and , making this the basis of calculation , have endeavoured to find the influence on the size of such drops , of the rate of influx of liquid , shape of terminal , as in the case of Dr. F. Guthrie , * or to ascertain the value of the surface tension of the liquid as in the case of Professor Quinckef and M. Dupre , f Under no circumstances , however , is the weight of the drop which falls exactly the weight of the volume which it is necessary to know in order to ascertain the value of the surface tension , though under certain circumstances it approximates thereto .
Hence we find that Prof. Quincke rejects this method of finding the tension , or recommends it only where other methods fail ; S albeit all his results obtained by this method are vitiated by an assumption to which I shall have occasion to draw attention .
The principle of the method which I will now describe is simply to project a magnified image ox a drop pendent from a cylindrical tube on to a screen , and .
there to trace its outline at any required stage of its development .
A vertical cylindrical glass tube , A , whose lower end is ground truly flat and with a sharp edge , communicates by means of a bulb or wider tube , B , and a piece of india-rubber or lead tubing , C , with an air-tight syringe , D , some 10 or 12 feet away .
For the usual syringe piston a cup of mercury , E , is substituted , which can be gradually * " On Drops .
" By Dr. F. Guthrie .
" Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 13 , p. 444 .
f " PoggendorTs Annalen , " vol. cxxxv , p. 621 .
" Phil. Mag. , " 1869 .
t " Theory Meeanique de la Chaleur , " p. 332 .
S Loc .
tit .
, p. 637 , S 12 .

