II .
An Account of the Evaporation of Water , as it was Experimented in Gresham College in the Year 1693 .
With some Observations thereon .
By Edm .
Halley .
IN order to explain the Circulation of Vapour Experimentally , I caused an Experiment of the Quantity of Vapour arising simply from the warmth of the Water , without being exposed either to Sun or Wind , to be made in Gresham College , which has been performed with great Care and Accuracy by Mr. Hunt , Operator to the Society : Having added up into one Sum the Evaporations of the whole Year , I find that , from a Surface as near as could be measured of 8 Square Inches , there did Evaporate during the Year , 16292 Grains of Water , which is 64 Cube Inches of Water , and that divided by 8 Inches the Area of the Water 's Surface , shows that the depth of Water evaporated in one Year amounts to 8 Inches .
But this is much too little to answer to the Experiments of the French , who found that it rained 19 Inches Water in a Year at Paris .
Or those of Mr. Townley , who by a long continued Series of Observations has sufficiently proved that , in Lancashire at the foot of the Hills , there falls above 40 Inches of Water in the Years time .
Whence it is very obvious , that the Sun and Wind are much more the causes of Evaporation , than any internal heat , or agitation of the Water .
The same Observations do likewise show an odd quality in the Vapours of Water , which is that of adhering to the Surface that exhaled them , which they cloath as it were with a Fleece of Vaporous Air , which once investing it , the Vapour rises afterwards in much less quantity : which was showed by the small quantity of Water that was lost in 24 hours time , when the Air was very still from Wind , in proportion to what went away when there blew a strong gale , although the Experiment were made , as I said , in a place as close from the Wind as could well be contrived .
For which reason I do not at all doubt , that had the Experiment been made where the Wind had come freely , it would have carried away at least three times as much as we found , without the assistance of the Sun , which might perhaps have doubled it .
By the same Experiment it likewise appears , that the Evaporations in May , June , July , and August , which are nearly equal , are about three times as much as what evaporated in the four Months of November , December , January , and February , which are likewise nearly equal : March and April answering nearly to September and October .
This Fleece of Vapour in still Weather hanging on the surface of the Water , is the occasion of very strange Appearances by the refraction of the said Vapours differing from that of the Common Air , whereby every thing appears raised ; as Houses like Steeples , Ships as on Land above the Water , and the Land raised , and as it were lifted from the Sea , and many times seeming to over-hang .
And this may give a tolerable Account of what I have heard of seeing the Cattle at High-water-time in the Isle of Dogs from Greenwich , when none are to be seen at Low-water , ( which some have endeavoured to explain by supposing the Isle of Dogs to have been lifted by the Tide coming under it .
) But the evaporous effluvia of Water , having a greater degree of refraction than the Common Air , may suffice to bring those Beams down to the Eye , which when the Water is retired , and the Vapours subsided with it , pass above , and consequently the Objects seen at the one time , may be conceived to disappear at the other .

