]\gt ; Professor Alexander , who was elected a Foreign Memhr in 1891 , was admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and ordered for them .
into the Measurable cteristics of Planfs , .
361 dimensions chosen were : ) the " " breadth\ldquo ; \mdash ; the distance in a straight line between the tips of the extra-orbital teeth of the carapace ( from the point , fig. 1 , to the corresponding point on opposite side ) ; and ( 2 ) the " " right denfary measured in a straight line from the apex of the first to that of the last lateral tooth from .
The " " length\ldquo ; of each crab was taken \amp ; s the length of the carapace , the tip of the middle interorbital tooth the posterior margin from .
This is , of course , not the total length of the body ; but the curvature and flexibility of the abdomen render an exact determination of the real body length very difficult .
FIG. 1 .
In order to compare the variability of a dimension in crabs whose carapace is only 7 mm. long with that of the corresponding dimenon iu adult crabs , whose carapace length is from 40\mdash ; 50 mm. or mors , it is evidently necessary to adopt some method of picturing the erabs as of one standard size ; and accordingly the measures have always been expressed in terms of the carapace-length of the to which they belong , laken as 1000 .
The measurements were by means of a screw , of 1 mm. pitcb , ( jarrying the object acl'OSS results was therefore 0004 of the carapace-length ; but in follows the resulbs are expressed , for the greater convenience of reader , in thonsandths of the carapace-length .
It will bs notioed that the principal effect of this upon the results is diminish their apparent regularity\mdash ; an aberration of one measurement appearing as four units in the tables below .
1 .
Variation in Frontal Breadth .
group ately .
As the difference in size between the largest and the the growing crabs was 7 mm. , it follows that the matevial was into -five groups .
This subdivision of the material had disadvantages , because , instead of a single group of over 7000 viduals , varying about the same mean , from which a fairly indication of the law governing frequency of deviation might been expected , the number of individuals in any one able groups was only 200 ; and from so small a number of Mean HBreadth ( expressed iandths oength , corresponding tarious Cengths ( ether with the Number of Individuals on which each Deterination is based .
[ Note.\mdash ; The carapace-length given in the table is the mean of all lengths induded in each group .
For example , the entry includes all crabs measuled in which the carapace-length was between mm. and mm. , and so on .
] vations no satisfactory demonstration of the law of variation at any givem moinent of growth could be obtained .
Nevertheless it was necessary , before proceeding further , to ascertain with some tie what the law of variation through the whole series really was .
The belief in which the work was undertaken was , that tho law of variation would be found throughout to be that of the ordinary probability equation ; and this belief was tested in the each of ths thirty-five groups , the arithmetic mean of the fi.ontal breadbhs , the mean of all the deviations from it , were determined ; and from the " " mean error\ldquo ; found in this way the modulu of the Probability function was calculated .
Then , by calling the mean of eaoh group zero , and expressing the deviations from the mean ill terms of the modulus , a number of curves were obtained , in each of wbkh the modulus was unity and the mean zero ; a similar curve of was constructed , and corresponding ordinates of all the -six curves ) obtained were added togethcr .
lt is evident that , if the chance function really expresses the law of variation throughout bhe series , then the curve resulting from the treatment described will be a curve of unit modulus .
The actual 1V11 .
into the of Plants , as the quartile deviation mm. of growth .
The rebults shown in Table III .
able III.\mdash ; Quartile Deviation of Frontal Breadths ( Q ) for various lIagnitndes of -length ( C ) .
The values here given are probably very l'eliable , but they show that in the youngest individuals the quartile deviation is distinctly less at ; that it eases with increase of size , until a time arrives when it is distinctly greater than in aduIt ; and that finally it diminishes again .
The initial features of this result , \mdash ; the smallness of the rtilc at a young age , indicating relative infi'equency of deviations , the increase during , have been by Bowditch in the case of human stature .
The result obbained by Dr. vdil cb and that here described are both simply confirmations of 1)arwin 's Statement , that many variations appear at a period of development .
The initial incl.ease in the quartile error may be to { act that upon the whole adults , while animals which exhibit a deviation of known in the state , exhibit on the whole a .
deviation with Vanc n .
If this view be the true one it is hoped next it may be possible to test it by observation of living crabs , which can be measured at various periods of growth ) , then , in a crab , which is of unit deviation when its pace is 7 mm. long , the mosf Probable deviation when it has grown to be mm. in will be about units .
probable .
of this expectation is the expression of irregularities in the rate of growlh , annot at present , want of , be adequately discussed .
From the age represented by a of mm. , lartile * Of the four very valucs in the , thrce occnrred in this pouP .
They have been omitted jn the detcrlnination of rtilc deviation , which would ise become ) .
It is , of course , possible that the deviation of " " abnormal\ldquo ; young may in each individual case first attain a maximum and then diminish with advanoing age ; if this is the case , we oannot know without experiment .
In the absence of such experiment , tho hypo .
thesis may be provisionally adopted that the diminution in the M. quency of individuals of given deviation is due to aselectiv tion , and the consequences of this hypothesis will be examined .
Consider a population of crabs , measured at the of their maximum , and suppose the distribution of tioIN among the .
population to be accurately represented , for a paMoulw organ , by a probability equation of modulus .
Now , let the number of individuals of deviation lying between be represented by the area abgd ( fig. 4 ) ; then , if be small , compared with served range of variation , and , in other if be the lIeight of the median ordinate BD of the generalised ourve , then the whole number of individuals in the population will be , suppose any destrucbion , which acts unselectively with to the organ in question , to reduce the number of individuals whose deviation lies between , to cdef , and let the arsu , or the height of the median ordinate .
Since this ohon is unselective , it will destroy an equal tage of animals of every deviation , and will therefore not alter the modulus .
The will therefore be reduced to in number .
This ] do struction cannot be directly measured .
The selective destruction is most ] conceived as In fig. represent a curve of modulus , and , so that the area of the whole curve the population left after unselective destruction has occurrod .
uppose the modulus to be reduced during growth to 4 wh less than , and let be a curve of modulus .
The mrun number of individuaIs which it is necessary to destroy , in aifect this reduction in the modulus , is evidently is , a quantity which can be experimentally determined .
From the data given in Table III , this ratio , for frontal of Plymouth crabs , becomes or about that the hypothesis of sslective dest uction involves a death-rate of about 77 thousand between the age corresponding to mm. in pace-length and maturity , as a consequence of deviation in frontl breadths , and in the group of structures , whatever these may be , which are directly correlated with it .
This total death-rate does not affect individuals of all deviations alike ; an inspection of the figure will show that the death-rate is $ function of the deviation , and that function is quite simply deter .
mined .
Consider any ordinate Eg of the curve ABEC , and let its abscissa , DG , be of magnitude ; then the lengh of is and the number of of deviation between and is .
In the way , the height of the ordinate Fg is and the number of individuals of abnormality within unit distance of after selection is The ratio between the number of animals of abnormality which survive the unselective destruction and those which are destroyed is therefore So that if is the selective death-rate animals of abnormality , then that death-rate increases as increases accordihg to the equation where is the numerical of and being values of the modulus at the time of its maximum value and maturity respectively .
For the frontal breadth of Plymouth crabs , the value of abol } ; so that of the whole number of animals which attain the mm. , having an abnormality of their frontal breadth , th which natural selection must be assumed to act , if it acts at all , has been determined , and the selective death-rate has been exhibited as a function of the abnormality , while a numerical estimate which is at least of the same order as the amount of the selective uction has been obtained .
The method by which the resuIt desoribed has been arrived at is likely to be capable of application to a very considerable number of cases .
Mathematically considel'ed , the conditions which were at first assumed and then proved to obtain in the organ discussed are by no means general .
It is necessary for the employment of this method that the val'iations should be distributed on side of mean with sensible symmetry , and that the position of minimum selechve destruction should be sensibly coincident with the mean of the whole system .
Such statistical information as is at present available leads to the belief that these conditions may be expected to hold for a large uumber species , which are sensibly in equil with their present surroundings , so that their mean character is sensibly the best , and the change of mean from generation to generation is at least very small .
They cannot be expected to hold in of rapid change such as those induced artificially by selection under domestication , or naturally by rapid migration or other phenomena resulting in a rapid change of environment .
For the investigation of such rapid change , it would be necessary the more general case , in which the chances of deviations of 0Pposibe sign are not sensibly symmetrical , and in which the mean is not necessarily ths position of minimum destruction .
The treatment of this case requires the help of a professional mathematician .
It will be well to mention here a curious indirect of the result just described , based on evidence derived a quite different source .
An attempt has been made to show that physiological accidents of a kind leading to change in the lcngbh of a porbion of the carapace affect acrab at a rate measured by the value of the quantity Th ymmetrical distribution of variations from the mean which has been 8hown , especially by Mr. Galton , to occur in dimellsions of ight , length , muscular strength , and other characters of various indicated by the ordinates of the points ; the intensity of responding stimuIus , minus the subliminal slimulus , being along the abscissa .
The dotted curve is by into the Measurable Characteristics of Plants , being the " " modulus\ldquo ; of the system of ordinates , determined : their moments about the axis of .
The coincidence between two , rough as it is , is surely more than accidental !
FIG. of three Muscle-curves from Cyboulski and Zanietowski 's paper .
Each ordinate represents the sum of three muscle-contractions in milli- metres : abscissae represent stimulus applied to the , explessed in ergs , and eckoned from the close of the subliminal period .
The most interesting relation to be investigated in the ht of this result would undoubtedly be the relation between sensation and ntimulus in man ; but existing data seem too fact to give any II .
Variabion in the Right IIIargin .
The mean size of tlJe right dentary margin was found to with increase of carapace-length , at such a rate as to render sary the same subdivision of the material as thab adopted in the of frontal breadths .
The change of mean will be gathered from Table , where it is seen that the change is sliglJtly slower and regular than in the frontal bl.eadths , while its direction is rever6e\amp ; the right dentary margin becoming larger , the frontal smaller with increase of size .
Table \mdash ; Mean Lsngth of Right Dentary Margin ( D ) expreffi in thousandths of the Carapace-length ( C ) corresponding to various observed Carapace-lengths .
These observations treated in the same way as those of frontd breadths ; and the result of expressing the deviations from the in terms of the modulus of every group , and then summing tions of corresponding magnitude , is shown in Table V , and graphk ally in fig. 6 .
into the Measurable xracteristics of Plants , .
375 V.\mdash ; Frequency of all observed Deviations from the Mean length of the Right lvIargin in 8020 Female Crabs , .
Young and Adult , from Plymouth .
Deviations in tsrms of the Modulus .
The symmetry of these is fairly good , the number of positively abnormal individufiJs being 4030 , the nunlber of negatively abnormal 3 .
The of the squares of the negative deviations ; the sum of the squares of the positive deviations being difference of about 2 .
cent. This difference is greatel than in the case of the frontal breadths ; but a reference to the table will show that the removal of a single individual , namcly , the FIG. 6.\mdash ; Deviations of 8020 measures of Right Dentary Margin in Female Crabs , and young , from Plymouth Sound , expressed in terms of the Modulus .
Eleven individuals of deviation greater than three times the Modulus are omitted .
vidual of deviation equal to -7 times the modulus , would make ihe of the positive and negative squares almost exactly equal .
The mean error of the whole system is instead of , or nearly 1 per cent. too great .
The error of mean squares is instead of , or per cent. too great .
these values of the mean error and error of mean square , as well as from the presence of a deviation so great as seven times t modulus , it is evident that some cause ] been at work , producing large abnormalities with a frequency greater than that indicated by theory of chance .
Reference to the table shows that more that times the modulus do in fact occur twenty instead of five or six times , as they should do So that ot this magnibude occur about three and a half times too often .
The sporadic occurrence of considerable deviations , which do n4 obey the general law of frequency of varia , tion , is a phenomenr in this case the little tubercle which indicates the positio1l of the fifth tooth is the point from which the measurement should be taken ; but if the obliteration of the fifth tooth had progressed but a little furbher , no indication of its presence would l.emain ; and the dentary of material was felt to be so dangerous a proceeding thb all cases in which there was any doubt as to the occurrence rn ury were included .
The wrongful inclusion of a dozen such would account for the excess of positive abnormalities : for it evident that a breakage of the tip of the last tooth would the distance AB in fig. 1 .
While , therefore , observations admit of the etat that about oltce in 500 cases a " " sport\ldquo ; of magnitude greater than that provided for by the theory of chance does regularly occur , the siderations which have been submitted make this interpretation at least doubtful .
The value of the error , as an indication of percentage abnormality , is diminisbed by the existence of the large deviabons discussed ; but the values obained are of considerable interest : they as follows : .
\mdash ; Mean Value of Quartile Deviation ( Q ) of Right Dentary Margin for various Lengths of Carapace ( C ) .
It will be seen this table that the error of distribution at lges measured is always less than in adult life , except among crabS , hose carapace is between 9 and 10 mm. Of the fourtoen supezfluous deviations of great magnitude , bhree occul in this group , the result is a quite ustwortLy determination .
* Remarks on in .
379 Bvidently , therefol.e , in spite of the abnormally great frequency yith which large deviations occur , the whole percentage of abnormahties , among crabs between 7 and 14 mm. in length , is less than it is in adult crabs ; and is a rough agreement between the result obtained from these measurements and that obtained by Bowditch from the measurements of human stature already referred to .
So that among female in Plymouth Sound , during tho period of life to which these observations refer , there is no indication of any destructive agency which acts seIectively upon the margin .
Whether such selective occurs amoItg maIes , or among females at a later period of lifc , is for the prcsent an opcll question .
riation in frontal breadth may , therefore , for the present be considered to be of more importance in the economy of female than variation in the length of the dentary margin\mdash ; a vicw which receives confirmation from the dimorphism already shown to exist ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 54 , p. 324 ) in the frontal breadth of crabs from Naples , while it is a striking justification of the acccpted system of classification , in which the characters of the great oups into which the Brachyura are divided are almost entirely those associated with changes in this dimension .
In nsion , an importaut of the method , ed may be pointed out .
The increase of death-rate , associated with a given abnormality of frontal breadth , has here been roughly determined ; in ths previous paper , already referred to , the effect of abnormality in this dimension upon several other organs of the body was determined ; and by the method of that paper it would be possible to the fact of parental abnormality upon the offspring .
These are ftll the data are , in order to determine tbc direction and rate of evoIution ; and they be obtained without introducing any theory of the physiological function of the organs jnvestigated .
The advantage of eliminating from the problem of evolution ideas which must often , from the nature of the case , rest chiefly lpon guess-work , need hardly be insisted upon . .
" " Remarks on atit ) Plants .
To the first of the Committee for conducting lnquiries into the Measurable istics of Aninlals By Professor .
F. R. WELDON , .
Received , 1895 .
1 .
The importance of iation as a factor in organic evolnbion is not Scrousl ) uted ; but , if one may judge from cxprcssions contained in rocent cssays , are not agl.ocd as to V0L .
LV11 .

