III .
A Paper about Magnetism , or concerning the changing and fixing the Polarity of a Piece of Iron .
By Mr. J. C. October 14th .
1694 .
SIR , HAving but little Matter from abroad , I will here give you something of my own : Being a Breviate of some Experiments of the Loadstone , or rather of Magnetism , which I lately made .
It is known that a Rod of Iron held Perpendicular to the Horizon , or inclining , the lower end is its North Pole , or attracts the South end of a Magnetic Needle ; and that the same end held upwards becomes a South Pole , sc .
attracts the North end of a Needle , and repels the South end .
The South I call a mutable Pole , which may be North or South , according as you hold it .
I call a Fixed Pole that which does not change however you hold it , particularly that is a fixed North Pole , which though held upwards , attracts the Needles South end , and repells the North end : And that is a fixed South Pole , which held downwards attracts the Needles North end , and repells the South end .
It is known that the Magnet does make such fixed Poles .
But to do it without the Magnet , is what I here chiefly consider .
1 .
The Species of the Pole , whether North or South , may be found by passing the Iron Rod through Cork or Wood , and then leaving it to swim on Water , it will turn to its proper Pole .
But this way is not nice , but in some cases so slow , that you would think it to be at rest when it is in motion towards its Pole .
A better way to try for Instance a North Pole , is to hold the Iron Perpendicular to the Horizon , and to try whether , being held under the North end of the Needle , it attracts it .
But a yet better way is to try whether the upper end of the Rod attracts the South end of the Needle , for Attraction is more sensible than Expulsion .
2 .
A fixed North Pole may be made with all the ways and Rods that you can make a sixt South Pole , but not vice versa ; for there are many cases wherein you can make a fixed North Pole , but not a fixed South Pole ; and whatever way you get a fixed South Pole , it is weaker than a fixed North Pole made the same way .
Applying a Needle to an erect Bar , beginning at the top , and so down , the Needle turns not at the middle , but nearer .
Of some Rods you cannot make a fixed South primarily , yet you may consequentially ; so you may make one end a North Pole , and then the other end of those Rods may without more to do become a fixed South Pole : But this does not always hold , for the one may be a fixed North Pole , the other may be a Mutable Pole .
3 .
Fire destroys all fixed Poles , sc .
whether made by the Magnet , or otherways ; but it increases , or rather less hinders that Magnetism which proceeds from the Earth : Sc. a Wire or Rod of Iron heated at one end , that end is a Mutable Pole , but more vigorous while hot than if cold , sc .
the ignited end held downwards , will attract the said end of the Needle more vigorous , than if cold ; and so if held upwards , it more attracts the North end .
The vigour of Mutable Poles is more in great than little Rods , but it is otherways in fixed Poles .
4 .
Heat the end of a Rod of Iron red-hot ( or heat all the Rod ) and cool that ignited end Northward , it will be a ( fixed ) North Pole ; if cooled South , it becomes a ( fixed ) South Pole .
This say Gilbert and others from Experience .
But I say , this holds but in some cases ; sc .
if the Rod is short , you cannot make a fixed Pole that way : Take a round Wyre whose Diameter is ~ Inch , and length 10 Inches , you cannot produce a fixed Pole by Ignition ; but if this Wyre were longer , as suppose 30 Inches long , or never so much longer , it is capable of a fixed Pole by Ignition : Again , take a round Rod 30 Inches long , and one Inch diameter , this Rod is not capable of a fixed Pole at that length , though the lesser was capable at that length .
And so my Experiments give me reason to think that there is no Rod or Bar of Iron ever so thick , but which if it had length enough , would be capable of a fixed Pole by bare Ignition , for of that I only speak in this Paragraph ; and there is no Rod ever so short , but which if you make it sufficiently thin , is capable of a fixed Pole .
So when in a Rod I could not obtain a fixed Pole at 21 Inches length in that thickness , I could by making the Rod thinner produce a fixed Pole even in the length of one Inch and less , and the Pole should be of which kind I pleased .
The terminus , or necessary length for every thickness increases more than you would be apt to think .
5 .
Heat a Rod or its end red-hot , and thoroughly cool this end downwards , or towards the Nadir , it will have somewhat more Magnetism than if cooled Horizontally towards the North .
But the better way is to cool it a little inclining towards the North .
I cannot find that Multiplicity of Ignitions does produce more Magnetism than one good Ignition ; but it must be thoroughly ignited .
Nor can I find by many Experiments that quenching in Water signifies to the producing or hindering Magnetism , but many Ignitions may accidentally promote it by purifying the Iron .
6 .
Dr. Power says , That if we hold a Rod Northward , and hammer in that position the North end , that will become a North Pole , i. e. a fixed North Pole ; contrarily if you hammer the South end .
Now this is true only in some cases , sc .
it holds in Rods only of a certain length : Sc. I say here again , as before of Ignitions , that of round Bars of the same Diameter there is required a certain length , under which a fixed Pole ca n't be produced by hammering , but of any length more than that certain length , you may make it ; and then if you take a Bar shorter than that length of which you ca n't make a fixed Pole , while you keep that Diameter ; if you take a Rod of the same length but less Diameter , you may by blows produce a fixed Pole : Or if you only beat that thicker Bar thinner , you may produce a fixed Pole , tho ' the Rod is never so short , provided you beat it thin enough .
7 .
What is said of Hammering , is to be understood of Filing , Grinding , Drilling , Sawing : yea , a hard Rubbing , yea , a sost Rubbing , provided it is long , will produce fixed Poles ; the more heavy the blows are , caeteris paribus , the Magnetism is more : I say , caeteris paribus , as when the blows be not so heavy in either case as to flat , for flatting the Iron produces more Magnetism , though other things do n't vary .
A few hard blows will produce as much Magnetism as many , as to sense , as if you give never so many blows ; yet a soft blow , may produce but little Magnetism .
The utmost Magnetism that I could produce in ordinary Rods this way , did not exceed that which an ordinary Loadstone would have infused .
8 .
Beating many Rods Northward , whose lengths I knew sufficient , I never failed of producing a fixed North Pole ; but hammering the same or like Rods Southward , I found that I could not produce a fixed South Pole , only a mutable Pole ; nay , hammering one full South , I produced a fixed North Pole : Then I thought the reason might be , that the hammered South end on the Anvil was a little lower than the end which I held in my hand .
Then I held the end higher , and South upward , and so hammering it South upwards , I never failed producing fixed South Poles in proper Rods .
9 .
Old Drills and Punches are fixed North Poles , because almost constantly used downwards , but new Drills are either Mutable Poles , or weak North Poles ; when Isay a new Drill , I do n't mean one made on the spot , for that is probably a North Pole , because quenched downwards in Water ; but then such Polarity made by bare Ignition is a weak Pole , and soon decays , and turns to a Mutable Pole : But I mean a Drill , which though never or little used , yet has been made some Days or Weeks ; Drill with this Southward Horizontally , and it is a chance if you produce a fixed South Pole , but much less if you Drill South downwards , but if you Drill South upwards , you may make it a fixed South Pole .
10 .
The stronger the Polarity is , the longer it will last ; a weak fixed Pole may degenerate into a Mutable Pole in a days time ; yea , I have known it in a few Minutes , while exposed to the Air , and held in a position contrary to its Pole : On the contrary we find Needles touched with good Loadstones hold that Virtue a great while , if kept from Air , and in a Meridian site .
11 .
The Loadstone it self will not make a fixed Pole of any Iron , only it must have a proper length if it is thick ; or if it is short , it must have a sufficient thinness : So , ordinary or weak Loadstones cannot fix a Pole in a thick short Key , which yet they will do in a little Key .
So in a short thick Iron tapering , a Loadstone may fix a Pole in the little end , when it cannot in the great end .
12 .
When Ignition , Hammering , or a Loadstone cannot make fixed Poles , it must not be thought that it can do absolutely nothing on such Rods , for even then it may be found that there 's an Effect of Magnetism in them discernable enough otherways , though not enough to make fixed Poles .
13 .
When you have the due length for making a fixed Pole , you will find the making one a fixed North , will consequently render the other a fixed South Pole ; but if keeping the same Diameter of this Rod , you increase its length enough , the making one end a fixed North Pole , will not necessarily make the other a fixed South Pole , but leave it a Mutable Pole .
So if you by a like Primary Operation make the second end a fixed Pole , the first end will lose its fixity , and become mutable .
I say , there 's a certain length suited to every thickness of Iron , to leave one end mutable , while the other is fixed , and the thicker the Iron is , the greater is this length .
14 .
If you further increase the length of the same Rod , you will attain such length , that the oftner you have fixed a Pole on one end , and then go to fix the other end , the fixity of the first will not be destroyed , and that end become mutable as before , but the fixity of the first end will remain , and so you make both ends two fixed North Poles , or two fixed South Poles .
I say , the shortest length ( for there 's no terminus of the greatest length ) for this is more in thick than in thin Iron .
15 .
The aforesaid lengths are less , according to the strength of Magnetism , sc .
Ignition requires a greater length than when a Rod is actuated by a Loadstone ; and a Rod touched with a strong Loadstone requires less length than one touched with a weak one .
I have some Years since read Kircher , Gilbert , and Dr. Power , who mention nothing of this , nor any other Author as far as I remember ; I am sure it was new to me .
I hear Dr. Plot has a Manuscript of Monsieur Chamar 's Magnetical Experiments ; also there 's a French Author published not many Years since on this Subject : Also Dr. Wallis thinks the Royal Society has made Experiments of Magnetism .
I have seen neither of these , perhaps they have done this Subject to much better purpose than your

