Philosoph. Transact. Number , 165 B Fig.1 .
P GAC T FH Fig.2 .
Fig.3 .
RS E1W KO Fig.4 .
Fig.5 .
Fig.6 .
B1C O ACHKBD Fig.7 .
NLDEA DM Fig.8 .
Fig.9 A Letter from Mr. Anthony Leewenhoeck Fellow of the Royal Society , dat .
Apr.14 .
1684 .
containing Observations about the Cristallin humor of the Eye , &amp; c. IN mine of September the 7th , 1674 .
I communicated my Observations concerning the Cristallin humour of the Eye ; which I find to have been inserted by Mr. Oldenburg , in the Phil. Transactions Num. 108 .
p. 178 .
where I say , that the Cristallin Body ( or humour ) of the Eye , is in hardness much like a preserved Nut meg ; which with a Razor I cut in too , and so observed the same in parcels , and found it to consist of many Orbicular scaly parts , lying one on the other , which had their beginnings from the Center ; all which parts consisted again of Cristallin Globules : And having suffered the said Cristallin humor to dry for 3 days , it became so hard , that in the cutting , it broke in pieces : as if it had been hard Rosin .
And observing again , these parts , I found therein , not only the aforesaid Orbicular scaly substance ; but further , that each scale , was again composed , of other Ring-like parts , and that these second were contrary posited to the other : Thus much I observed , on the Cristallin part of the Eye ; to which , I add , that I compared the scaly parts to a Globe , made out of a number of thin papers , laid the one on the other , and that every paper or scale , was again constituted out of so many parts , as there may be lines drawn upon a Globc , reaching from one Pole to the other .
I have sometime since , again made several observations , concerning the Eyes of Oxen and Cows ; for that often since my first observations , I have thought , that I had not yet discovered the make of the Cristallin humor of the Eye , so thoroughly as I might have done .
I therefore first examined the Film or Membrane which encloses it , and separates it , from the other humors of the Eye ; and conceived that it was constituted of Threads ; but at another time , tho there were great diligence used , I could observe none at all .
In these Inquiries , I have seen ( though seldom ) the impressions of the thred-like substance , of the outermost scales , of the Cristallin humor , in the forementioned Membrane ; whence I concluded , that one use thereof might be , to fill up all the unevennesses caused by the threads in the superficies of the Cristal , and so to constitute a perfect Round .
Another use of it , may be , by compressing the Cristallin humor to alter its figure , and make it part of a greater or lesser Circle : and this being so , it may not improperly be called a Muscle .
Although ( as before is said ) it did not plainly appear , that the Film is constituted of threads woven together ; I notwithstanding , make but little doubt thereof ; because formerly , in the thinnest Membranes I have seen these thred-like appearances , and also for that I examined the parts thereabout and found a great many streakes or Lines , seeming to be Lymphatick Vessels , designed for the nourishment of the humours of the Eye ; these I traced till they entered into the coat of the Cristallin humour , and then they grew so small that I lost the fight of them .
I further observed , that the aforesaid Cristallin body , was compounded of thin scales , placed upon one another : These seemed about 2000 thick , for the Axis , where it was longest , was ~ of an Inch , so that the distance from the Center to the Circumference is as ~ of an Inch : now the length of an Inch being fix hundred hairs breadth , ( as I have often said ) ~ must be 200 hairs breadth , which being multiplied by 10 .
( the number of Scales equal to the breadth of a hair ) make 2000 .
Scales , the thickness of this Cristallin body .
I have further observed , that each of these scales , is constituted of threads , which in a very neat order , lye by one another , so that each of these scales , is the thickness of one of the threads , the appearance hereof to view , I have represented , as well as I could , by Lines drawn in a Circle , Fig. 1 .
ABC .
is the Cristallin Body , of the bigness it appears to the naked Eye , B , is the part lying next the Cornea Tunica ; but these I have magnified , that I might the better represent the threads constituting every scale .
Fig. 2 .
KEFGHIL is represented , as if the aforementioned Fig. Num. 1 .
lay with the round B next the Eye : and altho I have here drawn many Lines , which represent as many threads , yet is their number nothing to those , in the Circumference of the Christallin humor Of an Ox , which are above 12000 .
For 10 threads lying close together side by side , making not out one Diameter of an hairs breadth , now if the whole Axis ( as before is said ) is 400 hairs breadth long , then is it long 4000 of those threads .
And this computed by the common Rules , amounteth to 12571~ .
the number of the threads lying side by side , and which make out the whole circumference of the Cristallin Body .
Hence may be perceived how thin these threads are , and how wonderfully they run not through the Axis , as I heretofore conceived , but taking 3 several ways out of the point L , ( the imagined Axis .
) These threads do not approach the Axis , on the other side of the Cristallin body , as they do on this , but turn back , with a small bent making there the shortest threads .
For example , the shortest threads here , viz. MK .
HN .
and OF .
reach up to the Axis on the other side , and fill up the place ; ( as is here represented at L , ) now the threads MK , having filled up their place , in the Axis of the other side , ( as the threads ELI doe here ) they return from thence back , and are here the shortest threads HN .
These HN place themselves again , on the other side near the Axis , and returning back again , are then OF .
and OF coming from the other side nigh the Axis , is here again KM .
To conclude , those which are here the shortest threads , are on the other side the longest ; and the longest on the other side , are here the shortest .
To present this yet clearer to view , I have drawn with lines , the threads composing one of the scales of the Cristallin body , seen on one side , as Fig.3 .
RTPSWQ , and notwithstanding it is a flattish round , I have here made it Globular , with consideration , that in this Representation , the threads constituting each scale , may be the better discerned .
P and Q are the middle points or Axes , of which P in the foregoing Fig.2 .
is denoted by L , the threads issuing out of the point P , in the foregoing Figure 2 .
L extend to V , where they are the shortest threads , from whence they again extend back to P , where again they are the longest , and from P they again extend to W , where they are again the shortest ; and thus also are extended the threads from T to Q and from thence again to X , and from X to Q , and thus half the course of every one of the threads ( since we must suppose this for an half round ) is demonstrated .
In short the threads LI , in the foregoing Fig.2 .
are here PS ; and the threads between L and M in the foregoing figure 2 .
are here the threads between P and X ; and the threads between L and O in the foregoing Fig. 2 .
are here , the threads between P and T. So that the threads in the foregoing Fig. 2 .
between FOLIKE , are here in Fig. 3 .
the same with RTPS .
Here is further to be observed , that the threads constituting the Cristallin Body , are thickest about R and S , and the nearer they approach to P or Q , they are the thinner .
To conclude , when we view the foresaid Cristallin body with attention , as it comes fresh out of the Eye , we find it to excel in transparency the purest Glass , not withstanding it is composed of so many thousand threads , and that they lye very close compact together , so that one might justly wonder , how the light can pass through them in right lines , which is absolutely neB cessary ; cessary ; for if it were otherwise , the Cristallin body would appear white , but not transparent .
To please some curious persons , and to represent this Cristallin body , yet plainer to their sight , I have taken a small Tennis Ball , and wound the same about , with a very fine Cord , having before stuck in many small pins , in the places where it was to be kept from slipping ; then I smeer 'd the Ball over with strong Glem , and when it was well dried , took out all the Pins , and this Ball , with the cord wound about it , representeth the Cristallin Body of the Eye .
I have heretofore said , that the parts , which I now plainly perceive as threads ; are again constituted of Globules ; which now in some of the threads I clearly discern .
But , for that I always discern it not , I conceived , that as the threads ( as here before is said ) are very small , and clotted one to the other , that so in the separating of them , some parts of one thread remain fastned to the other , which may appear to my fight Globules : I conceived it might better agree with their Fabric , to suppose that each thread , was again composed of many other smaller threads joined together , as I have heretofore said , that the Flesh threads although 9 .
times thinner then a hair of our head , are again constituted of other threads .
I further took out of the Eyes of Sheep , Hogs , Dogs , and Cats , the Cristallin bodies , and ordered them , as I had done those of an Ox ; but have found not the least variation , either in the scaly parts , or in the course of the threads , composing each of those scales .
The same agreement I found also , in the Eyes of Hares , and Rabbits ; except that whereas the threads constituting the before-mentioned Cristallin bodies , spread themselves from the Center , in three distant courses ; here the threads of each scale , spread themselves but in two courses .
Fig. 4 .
ABCD representeth half the round of the Cristallin body of the Eye of a Hare or a Rabbit ; E is the Center , which lies extended to the Apple of the Eye ; these threads constituting each scale , which run as through the Center E , are on the other side , the shortest , and appear like unto F or G. likewise F and G , on the other side run through the center .
I have also caused the foregoing Figure to be drawn side-wise , the better to represent the thred-like appearance of each scale .
I suppose then , that the threads , which in fig. 4 .
are represented between E and F , are the same with those in Fig. 5 .
represented by I O. so that the threads , which come from the point I ( the same with E in the former figure .
) end here , in N and L ; where they are the shortest ; and those which extend to O , through , or close to the center M , where they are the longest , end there , or bend again on the other side , as the same do here .
In short those which here approach the center I , are on the other side furthest from the center .
In the aforementioned Observations , I have for the most part , endeavoured also to discover the nature of the Vitreous humour of the Eye ; and which surroundeth for the most part the said Cristallin humor , for that I concluded , it was no watery matter , but rather a transparent Muscle ; But notwithstanding all the means I thereto used , I could not make the least discovery thereof , for that this matter always changed into a watery substance .
I further examined the Cristallin body of the Eyes of Fishes , which are perfect Globes ; and found them also constituted of like thin scales , lying one upon the other , as in those other Animals before noted : and each scale also composed of threads , but these threads run not in the same manner , as those of other Animals ; yet , notwithstanding all the industry by me used , I could not discover the true course of them , for when the threads approach the center , they appear so thin , and so close joined together , that the sight cannot trace them , and cause such a confusion , that I cannot be certain , whether they end in the center , or return again from thence .
By Fig. 6 .
ABC D. I represent the Cristallin body of the Eye of a Cod-fish , and although the circular lines representing the threads constituting each scale , be only drawn by a pair of Compasses , from the center A , to the center C , and therefore lye more distant one from the other , then in the foregoing figures ; yet are the threads composing each scale , not thicker , except in the middle , as here B and D they are somewhat thicker ; and the nearer they approach to A and C , they are the thinner .
Fig. 7 .
is the true bigness of the Cristallin body of the Eye of a Codfish .
I have also examined , the Cristallin bodies out of the Eyes of Birds , only to view how the threads of the scales , constituting also the Cristallin body , run ; and after many observations , I have discerned , that the threads constituting the Cristallin body of a Turky-cock , are extended like those in Fish ; but as the Cristallin body of a Fish 's Eye is perfectly Globular ; those of Birds are a flattish round : as Fig. 8 .
posited with its flattish side D towards the Cornea Tunica .
And when from without the Crisiallin body of the Eye of a Turky-Cook , I had with a very sharp knife , taken off many of the scaly parts , to bring it to a smaller Globe , it changed its Figure , and became an Oval ; as Fig. 9 .
where E , is the same point with D , in fig. 8 .
the threads being , where they meet , so thin and small , that at last they are not distinguishable .
From whence we may conclude , that the threads of the scales , which lye nearest the center , are in the midst thin ; as in Fig 6 .
at B and D is showed , and make thus an Oval figure : and that when the Cristallin body increases in magnitude , the threads become then in the midst thicker ; and thus constitute a flat round ; as I have perceived it , for the threads in the Cristallin body of a Turky cock , in their thickest part , were thicker than those in an Ox , Hog , Sheep , &amp;c. Before I leave this discourse , I cannot but mention , that I have by several ways and means , seen with my naked Eye , a threddy substance , like that whereof the Cristallin humor consists : I shall only mention two of them , viz. I take a clean wine Glass , and hold the Rim thereof close against the Pupil of one of my Eyes , while my other Eye is closed ; and looking thus , firmly through the Rim of the Glass , against the flame of a Candle , or other light , I perceive the thred-like appearance above named ; as if through a Microscope , I had beheld a piece of a scale of the Cristallin Body of the Eye .
Or closing one Eye , I hold the fingers of my hand , before the other Eye , so close together , that they leave but a small opening between them : this small space between the fingers , through which the Eye receives the light of the Candle , will represent a like thred-like appearance , as in the former instance .
I have often been aware , of a moisture lying on the out side of the Pupil of the Eye , containing some few very small Globules ; which as oft as we close our Eye Lids~ change place : From hence may be learnt , the necessity of the Eye Lids in us ; and why Fishes which continually live under water , need them not , but should Men and other Animals , that live out of the water , not have them , they would soon be blind : For if the Eye Lids by their closing , did not constantly moisten the Eye , the superficies thereof , would dry up and Rumple : and that chiefly in the Sun , or before a hot fire .
Also it is not improbable , that from the inner part of the Eye a moisture continnually issues through the Cornea Tunica , which by Eye lids is cleansed off ; for when I had examined several Hogs Eyes , which had been scalded with hot water , to get of the hair , I for the most part observed , that a thin Film , which was on the Cornea Tunica of the Eye , was somewhat signed ; whereby it was easily separated , from that film , that was immediately under it ; and when I then pressed the Eye , a little , between my fingers , I perceived in several places , a thin watery matter to soak through the Horny film , and lye like a watery damp on a Glass ; and when I continnued this pressing for some time , this watery damp increased into small Drops , and at length run like water in a stream .
This ought not to seem strange , considering the parts of the Horny Coat to be made of hollow vessels , like veins ; very thin , and spread about in Branches .
I have lately taken the Horny coat of an Oxe 's Eye , and have separated from it , seven films , extremely thin , in each of which , were a number of interwoven , very clear , and transparent streakes ; which I judge to be , many of them , blood Vessels ; but so small , that they contain none of the Globules , which cause the redness in the blood .
By the rubbing of our Eyes , with our hand , we may so press these blood vessels , until they become so stretched out , that some of these bloody Globules , may get in , and remain there , for some time , which may cause that redness in our Eyes ; which comes by our rubbing of them .
But to return again , to the Eye lids .
As our Muscles and other parts of our bodies rest not , unless posited as they lay , when we were yet in the Womb ; ( as I formerly said ) in like manner , the Eye lids , are not at rest , till the Eyes are closed , and therefore we cannot long continue the Eye lids open , but with force ; and , that the same might not be wearied , we often close them , although we mind it not .
I have seen People , that listning with attention , to a Discourse , have closed their Eye lids according to my Calculation 6000 .
times in an hour ; whereas others , standing by them , closed them not , above 2000 .
times in the same time .
Since I wrote unto Mr. Oldenburg , in the year 1673 .
that the matter , causing the redness of our Blood , was constituted of Globules ; I examined the blood of Oxen , Sheep , and Rabbits ; and observed no difference in magnitude , between the Globules of those Animals , and those of Men : so that I conceived , that that matter which in general made all blood red , was Globules .
But , aster I had tried the blood of a Salmon , a Cod , of Frogs , &amp;c. and found that the matter , which caused the redness therein , was made of parts oval , and flattish , ( as I have before said ) I examined the blood of several Birds ; and have also observed , that the matter causing the redness of their blood , was also composed of like Oval flattish parts , with those of Fishes : so that I now concluded , that all Animals , whether Birds , Fish , or other Creatures that live in the water ; have the parts causing the redness of their blood , consisting of the said Oval flattish parts , and if hereafter I chance to find the contrary , I will advise you thereof .

