An Account of some organic Remains found near Brentford , Middlesex .
By the late Mr. William Kirby Trimmer .
Communicated in a Letter from Mr. James R. Trimmer to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read March 4 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 131 .
] The greatest part of this account had , in fact , been drawni up by Mr. William Kirby Trimmer himself , for the purpose of communicating it , through the President , to the Society ; so that very little has been added to what he had written , excepting the descriptive explanation of some sketches of several bones and teeth that accompany the paper .
The specimens had been collected at different times from two fields at some distance from each other , that have been dug for the purpose of making bricks .
The first of these fields is about half a mile north of the Thames at Kew Bridge , and its surface about twenty-five feet above low water-mark .
The first six or seven feet are sandy loam , rather calcareous towards the bottom , but containing no organic remains .
The next stratum is sandy gravel , a few inches thick , containing shells of snails and of fresh-water fish , and a few bones of land animals .
Under this is loam of variable thickness , from one to five feet , containing horns , bones , and teeth of oxen and of deer , with some shells also of snails and of freshwater fish .
The fourth stratum is gravel , from two to ten feet in thickness , covered at its surface with occasional thin patches of peat , and always thickest at those parts , and inhaling a disagreeable muddy odour .
In this stratum were found teeth and bones of both the African and Asiatic elephant , of the hippopotamus , with bones , horns , and teeth of oxen .
One tusk of an elephant measured as much as nine feet three inches , but was broken into small pieces in attempting to remove it .
The fifth and main stratum , which follows , is the same blue clay which passes under London and its vicinity to the depth of two hundred feet and more .
This contains many detached nodules of pyrites , principally at the depth of about twenty feet from its surface , and many of them of considerable size .
The extraneous fossils in this stratum are entirely marine , with the exception of some fruits and pieces of wood , which , however , appear to have been in the sea , as they are always pierced with Teredines .
The shells are those of Nautili , Oysters , Pinnie marinse , and Crabs , with a great variety of smaller shells , and some teeth and bones of fish .
The second field mentioned by Mr. Trimmer is about a mile to the westward of the former , and at the distance of a mile from the Thames , from which it is elevated about forty feet .
The first stratum here is sandy loam , to the depth of eight or nine feet , without any appearance of organic remains .
Next lies sand , varying in depth from three to eight feet , and in coarseness from fine sand to sandy gravel at its lowest part .
In this coarsest part are found a considerable quantity 'of teeth and bones of the hippopotamus and of the elephant ; horns , bones , and teeth of deer and of oxen ; with shells of river fish .
The remains of the hippopotamus , in particular , are so frequent , that in an area of 120 square yards , as many as six tusks of that animal were found along with various others of the bones , tusks , and horns that have been mentioned .
One horn of an ox measured as much as four feet six inches in length , and five inches in diameter at the base ; and the size of this , it is observed , is the more remarkable , as another horn of an ox was found near it , only six inches long ; but it is added , that they all appear to have been deposited as mere bones without the flesh ; for in no instance have two bones that are connected in the living animal been found together .
Although these bones have lost their cohesion , as if perished by lying long in a moist stratum , they do not seem worn in any degree , as would have happened if they had been washed by the sea for any length of time .
The third stratum in this field is sandy loam , highly calcareous , containing horns , bones , and teeth of deer and oxen , with snail-shells , and shells of river fish .
Below this stratum follow the gravel and clay corresponding to those of the other field ; but as the existence of these has been ascertained solely in digging for water , it is not known , by actual examination , whether the organic remains which they may contain are of the same kinds .

