OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. XC.-A .
b CONTENTS .
PAGE , ALEXANDER BUCHAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
i Sr\amp ; WALTER NOEL HARTLEY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
vi HUGH MARSHALL xiv ALEXANDER Ross CLARKE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
xvi . . . .
ALEXANDER BUCHAN , * 1829-1907 .
ALEXANDER BUCHAN , meteorol-0gist , was born at Kinnesswood , Kinrossshire , on April 11 , 1829 .
Of his early days his son , Dr. Hill Buchan , writes : " His father , Alexander Buchan , died within a day of my father 's birth .
He was engaged in the weaving trade .
His mother 's maiden name .was Margaret Day Hill .
She lived to old age .
They had four children , of whom my father was the youngest , two boys and two girls , who survived to a good age , but predeceased my father .
The sisters lived at home at Kinnesswood .
" His brother 's daughter , Jessie Hill Buchan , was for many years , until her death in 1905 , the greatly esteemed assistant of her uncle .
" Shortly after the fathei\#183 ; 's death , the family removed to the neighbouring village of Milnathort , and remained there for some years , but afterwardsduring at least part of my father 's boyhood-returned to Kinnesswood .
" Kinnesswood was then a small village whose sole industry was hand-loom weaving ; but the standard of education and intelligence among the people was very remarkable .
I have seen old note books kept by some of the villagers in beautiful penmanship , which showed that they both read and thought .
Michael Bruce , the poet , author of The Cuckoo ' ( so often seen in old collections ) , was born and bred in the village .
I have often heard my father say that some of the ablest men he had ever met were among this class there .
My father attended a local school in Milnathort , I think , but I am not certain on this point .
This education was supplemented by private tuition in Latin , which he got from his minister , Rev. Dr. Laird , to whom for his kindness in this matter my father always felt himself to be under a lasting debt .
" When he went to Edinburgh he entered the Free Church Normal College , which met in Moray House-of many historical associations-in the Canongate .
This was not a school in the ordinary sense of the term , but a nonresidential college for the training of the teachers for Free Clnirch Day Schools in Scotland ( at that period the Free Church had sep !
J , rate schools ) .
The education given at Moray House was very good .
I do not know the exact dates of his attendance at Moray House , nor when he entered the University .
The two courses were sometimes ( in part at least ) taken at one time .
I think his University course may have been t'.1ken in two parts ; but , again , ram uncertain .
" He took the ordinary old regulation Master of Arts course at Edinburgh University-Latin , Greek , Mathematics , Physics , Logic and Metaphysics , Moral Philosophy , and English Literature .
He took prizes in the classes of Logic and Metaphysics under Campbell Fraser , Moral Philosophy under Macdougall , Mathematics under Kelland , and Physics under Tait .
Though * This notice is based largely upon " Contributions towards a Memorial Notice of Alexander Buchan , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , " 'Journal of the Scottish Meteorological Society , ' 3rd series , 1907 , vol. 14 , No. 24 .
b 2 \#183 ; 11 Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
not actually a. student in the Philosophy class when Sir William Hamilton held the chair , he frequently went to hear him , and was very much impressed by Hamilton .
" He also took out the Botany class , which was not in the Arts curriculum , under the late Professor Balfour , who became a life-long friend .
In August , 1858 , he accompanied Balfour and some of his more enthusiastic students on a walking tour through Switzerland , the chief object being to botanise the district round Zermatt .
Mr. ( afterwards ) Sir Joseph Fairer was one of the company .
This was my father 's first introduction to the Continent , and left lasting impressions .
" He collected a large herbarium in Scotland and Switzerland .
Botany , especially field botany , had great attractions for him as a life work ; but the vacancy in the Scottish Meteorological Society turned his life in another direction .
His interest in field botany continued through life .
He never seemed to have any difficulty in naming any plant he saw .
This knowledge extended to grasses , mosses , and seaweeds , of which he made collections .
" He held teaching appointments in schools in Blackford , Banchory , and Dunblane ( not Dunkeld , as appeared in many papers ) .
At these places he extended his knowledge of botany and had also time for general reading .
At Dunblane he was Keeper of the Leighton Library , which comprised Archbishop Leighton 's original collection as well as modern books .
My father was very fond of teaching , and it was a great regret to him to have to relinquish it on account of throat weakness .
" At Christmas , 1860 , he left school work to take up the appointment of Secretary of the Scottish Meteorological Society , which had been founded in 1855 through the instrumentality of Dr. James Stark , head of the Statistical Department of the Office of the Scottish Registrar-General .
In 1887 , he was appointed by the Royal Society of London a member of the Meteorological Council , which , from 1877 to 1905 , administered the Parliamentary \#183 ; Grant for Meteorology and directed the operations of the Meteorological Office .
From the time of his appointment by the Scottish Society Buchan devoted his life to the work of his office and to meteorological research or discussion , in the congenial society of Sir Arthur Mitchell , David MilneHolme , the Marquis of Tweeddale , Thomas Stevenson , Sir John Murray , and other distinguished Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , of which he became a prominent figure as Librarian and Curator of the Museum from 1878 to 1906 , and Vice-President .
He was Secretary of the Royal Society Club , the social rendezvous of the Society , from 1883 till his death .
\#183 ; His tall figure , long thin Scottish face , straight , dark , rather lank hair and long beard , were associated with a suggestion of humour about the eyes that made for sociability and good company .
" He worked for the love of J ' , ork .
" He was , above all , tenacious and resourceful .
A close friend of Robert Louis Stevenson , his colleague Thomas Stevenson 's son , he had a profound appreciation for and knowledge of literature , Alexander Buchan .
111 particularly old English poets , dramatists , and historians .
He was an office bearer in the Free Church .
" His deeply pious nature , his entire freedom from cant of every kind , his liberality of thought , his clear outlook on all subjects , always gave the impression ... .
of a good man .
" He married in 1864 Sarah , daughter of David Ritchie of Musselburgh , who died on May 13 , 1900 , leaving a son A. Hill Buchan , who took up the profession of medicine and was his father 's companion on many journeys for the inspection of meteorological stations .
Buchan died on May 13 , 1907 , at 2 , Dean Terrace , Edinburgh , whither he had removed some years previously in order to share a house with his son in a position convenient for medical practice .
He was buried at the Warriston Cemetery .
In his scientific work Buchan was naturally the mainstay of the Scottish Meteorological Society and was the chief contributor to its journal ; sixty-six of its published papers are from his pen .
The work of the Society included not only the holding of meetings and the discussion and publication of scientific papers but also the collection of data , and consequently the organisation and superintendence of a network of stations with a view to the compilation of a body of meteorological statistics .
The immediate object of this organisation was the regular supply of information to the RegistrarGeneral of Births , Deaths , and Marriages , for Scotland for whom particulars of all the meteorological elements were required .
To these were added the weather journals of the Lighthouses of the Board of Northern Lights , of which Buchan 's friend Thomas Stevenson , the designer of the thermometer screen now generally adopted , was engineer , and a separate series of rainfall stations was organised to do for Scotland what G. J. Symons attempted , with conspicuous success , for the British Isles .
Except the lighthouses the Scottish stations were maintained by voluntary observers , generally the noblemen and country gentlemen , for whom Buchan 's periodical visits of inspection formed a connection with the Society .
The papers published by the Society were often preliminary to more complete discussions published by the Royal Society of Edinburgh or to publication in book form .
His best known books are as follows:(1 ) The Handy Book of Meteorology , ' first published in 1867 , second edition 1868 ( Blackwood and Sons ) , which has become a recognised text-book of meteorology all over the world .
( 2 ) 'Introductory Text-book of Meteorology .
' ( :3 ) " Report on Atmospheric Circulation , based on Observations made on board H.M.S. Challenger and other Meteorological Observations , " ' Reports of the Expedition of H.M.S. Challenger , Physics and Chemistry , ' vol. 2 , part 5 , 1889 ( H.M._ Stationery Office ) .
( -\#177 ; ) " Oceanic Circulation .
" 'Challenger Reports .
Summary of Results , ' 1895 .
( 5 ) 'Bartholomew 's Physical Atlas , ' vol. 3 , Meteorology ( with Dr. A. J. Herbertson ) , 1899 .
Buchan 's chief work , The Atmospheric Circulation , ' is the final form of IV Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the discussion of observations of pressure and temperature collected from all parts of the world .
Of its precursor , the work on mean pressure , published in the 'Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , ' 1869 , von Hann says : " It is ev.en more important than the celebrated work of Dove , ' The Distribution of Heat over the Surface of the Earth , ' Berlin ( 1852 ) .
" It is the document which justifies what Buchan wrote in his preface to the second edition of The Handy Book of Meteorology ' : " Now that meteorology has discarded all pretensions and theories , except in so far as the latter are the legitimate result of observation , it has acquired rapid development and established its claim to be regarded as the youngest of the sciences .
" The Challenger volume extends to 347 pages of text , including tables giving the mean diurnal variation of atmospheric pressure , the mean monthly and annual height of the barometer , the prevailing winds for each month and for the year , as well as tables showing from the Challenger observations the deviations each two hours from the mean daily temperature of the surface of the sea , from the mean daily temperature of the air , and from the mean daily atmospheric pressure , and a table for reducing observations of the barometer to sea-level .
This report is illustrated by a series of fifty-two coloured maps , showing the mean temperature , isobaric lines , and prevailing winds over the globe for each month of the year and for the year , and by two plates of curves showing deviations at different hours of the day from the mean daily temperature , mean daily atmospheric pressure , wind velocity , etc. " Dr. Buchan 's 'Report on Oceanic Circulation , based on Observations made on board H.M.S. Challenger and Other Observations , ' appeared in 1895 , and extends to thirty-eight pages of text , illustrated by sixteen coloured maps , showing the mean annual specific gravity and \#183 ; the mean annual temperature at the surface , as well as the temperature at various depths beneath the surface and at the bottom of the ocean .
His paper on ' Specific Gravities and Oceanic Circulation , ' published in the 'Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , ' 1896 , runs to twenty-six pages of text , illustrated by nine maps , showing the specific gravities observed at the surface and at various depths beneath the surface of the ocean .
" Every part of climatology is touched upon in the papers contributed to the Society , and every part of meteorology representable by maps is represented in Bartholomew 's Atlas .
Dr. von Hann in his memorial notice calls special attention to Buchan 's numerous discussions of the relations between the distribution of atmospheric pressure and long-continued weather anomalies as " breaking new ground for a sound advance of meteorology in Central Europe .
' ' Another group of papers which deserves special mention is that which includes the tw.o papers upon the influence of weather on mortality from different diseases and at different ages , and those on influenza and weather in London , all of which were written in conjuncti'on with Sir Arthur Mitchell , and which display a singular felicity in the grouping of statisLic\#183 ; s Alexander Buchan .
V to elicit unsuspected relationships between phenomena which are indirectly connected .
A celebrated enterprise for which the Scottish Meteorological Society was responsible under Buchan 's direction was the observatory at the summit of Ben Nevis , the highest point of the British Isles , 4406 feet above the sealevel , for which permanent buildings were finished in November , 1883 , after some preliminary daily observations by Mr. Clement Wragge in 1881-82 .
The buildings were vested in the Royal Society of Edinburgh , but the observatory was controlled and managed by a committee of the Meteorological Society .
The observations at the summit were made by eye readings at each hour , day and night , from 1883 till the close of September , 1904 , and , at the same time , observations were made at Fort William for comparison , until an observatory , with self-recording instruments , was established there by the Meteorological Council in 1890 .
In 1900 it was found that the funds available were insufficient for continued maintenance of the two observatories , and an appeal for additional assistance from Government funds ended in 1905 , after prolonged discussion , in a misunderstanding , and to the regret of many meteorologists in all countries the observatories were closed .
The results obtained fill a series of volumes of the 'Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , ' and form a very notable example of meteorological enterprise and industry ; the enthusiasm for the collection of data from all parts of the world which was stimulated by the successes of Buchan 's first ten years at the Society had led to the collection of more material than the actual workers could deal with .
The British meteorologists of the sixties of the last century-Buchan , Mitchell , Milne-Holme , and Stevenson , in Scotland ; with Strachey , Galton , Baxendell , in England had grown old or passed away without any apparent suycessors , and in the meantime various circumstances had led to the disassociation of what Buchan had called a new science from the established sciences as recognised by universities .
There is on that account a note of sadness about the close of the careers of the British meteorologists of the nineteenth century who survived until the twentieth , among whom Buchan had achieved most .
His merits were recognised in many ways .
.From the Royal Society of Edinburgh he received the Makdougall-Brisbane Medal in 1876 , and the Gunning Prize in 1893 ; Glasgow conferred upon him the honorary degree of LL. D. in 1887 ; he was elected F.R.S. in 1898 ; and in 1901 he was the first recipient of the medal founded by the Royal Meteorological Society of London in commemoration of G. J. Symons .
He was honorary member of the Royal Society of Sciences of Upsala , the Philosophical Societies of Glasgow , Manchester , and Emden , and of the Meteorological Societies of Austria , Germany , Algiers , Mauritius , and elsewhere .
He was President of the Edinburgh Botanical Society in 1870-71 .
W.N.S. Vl SIR WALTER NOEL HARTLEY , 1846-1913 .
WALTER NOEL HARTLEY was born at Lichfield on February 3 , 1846 .
His father , Thomas Hartley , was a portrait painter , some of whose works are in the collection of works by Yorkshire artists at the York Museum , and his mother 's maiden name was Caroline Lockwood .
He was educated privately and in 1863 he went to the Edin burgh University with the intention of studying medicine .
With this object he attended the usual first year 's classes , including chemistry under Prof. Lyon Playfair , whose laboratory he also attended .
Here he nJtade the acquaintance of the late Dr. Arthur Gamgee , who advised him to devote himself entirely to chemistry .
This suggestion he adopted , and in later years he often expressed to me his gratitude \#163 ; or the interest which Gamgee took and the influence which he exercised over his early studies .
It was doubtless under Gamgee 's advice that he determined to go abroad to continue his studies in one of the numerous German laboratories which were already famous .
Consequently his stay at Edinburgh did not extend beyond one year .
In the autumn of 1864 , Hartley went to Germany with the intention of working in Bunsen 's laboratory .
Unfortunately , when he arrived at Heidelberg , he found that every place in the laboratory was already occupied .
In these circumstances he consulted Bunsen as to what he should do , and was recommended by him to Kolbe , his successor in the Chair of Chemistry at Marburg .
Here he spent the winter of 1864-5 , and it was as his fellowstudent in Kolbe 's laboratory in the summer session of 1865 that I made his , acquaintance , which ripened into a lifelong friendship .
In later years we frequently looked back on the days spent in Marburg as an opportunity of knowing , by living and working in it , the conditions of student life as it had been for generations in a small German university .
The picturesque little town of Marburg had , in 1865 , a population of about 7500 inhabitants and the University numbered no more than 200 students .
According to 'Minerva ' of 1913 , in the summer session of 1912 the students numbered 2238 , including 129 women .
It would be difficult to express more shortly or more clearly than by these figures , the change of conditions which has taken place in less than half a century and in the lifetime of one man .
To spend a year at the student-age working in a laboratory rendered famous by the names of Bunsen and Kolbe , and in such picturesque and old-world surroundings , appealed to Hartley 's scientific and artistic tastes in a way that nothing else could .
In our intercourse , Marburg memories never lost their freshnese .
In contrast to the town , Kolbe 's laboratory was almost cosmopolitan .
In the summer of 1865 there worked in it \#163 ; our British subjects , four Russians including Menschutkin , afterwards professor in Petersburg , and Saytseff , professor'\n Kasan , besides other nationalities , so that not more than one-half of the students were of German nationality .
Kolbe did not interest Sir Walter Noel Hartley .
Ill himself in his students outside of their work , but in it he was painstaking and always illuminating .
His somewhat stiff appearance and manner were most conspicuous in his lectures , delivered with all the crisp precision of his Hanoverian pronunciation .
He was called to Leipzig in the autumn of 1865 , and within a year afterwards Kurhessen had ceased to exist and Marburg was no longer a Landes- Universitat .
After returning to England Hartley filled several different posts .
He was for some time assistant to Dr. Angus Smith in Manchester , and the experience which he gained there bore fruit in his later work on ventilation and sanitation .
He was also for some time assistant to Dr. Thudicum when be was occupied with the investigation of wines .
In connection with this work he became an enthusiastic student of Pasteur 's researches , which were only then beginning to attract general attention out of France .
Afterwards he was assistant to Prof. Odling at the Royal Institution , and to the time which he spent there he always looked back as the happiest period of his life .
It was here that he did his first great experimental research .
For it he had been well prepared by his work on wine in Thudicum 's laboratory and his reading in connection with it .
At the Royal Institution , in constant association with so inspiring a personality as Dr. Odling , and under the same roof with Tyndall elaborating his work and delivering his lectures on Dust and Disease , he found himself in the environment most favourable for the production of a masterpiece like his " Experiments concerning the Evolution of Life from Lifeless Matter " which was communicated to the Royal Society by Dr. Odling and was published in its ' Proceedings , ' vol. 20 , pp. 140-157 ( 1872 ) .
This investigation was undertaken in order to test the validity of the conclusion arrived at by Dr. Charlton Bastian in a paper published in 'Nature ' of June 30 , 1870 , entitled " Facts and Reasonings concerning the Heterogeneous Evolution of Living Things .
" According to Hartley the most remarkable case described in this paper was that of Experiment 19 , in which Bastian gave a drawing of a large organised mass obtained from a solution of sodium phosphate and ammonium tartrate , which had been exposed to a temperature varying between 146 ' C. and 153 ' C. , for four hours .
This organism was seen to grow within the flask till it attained a certain size , beyond which it did not increase .
Hartley proceeds : " Now a fact so distinctly stated as the production of an organism , and its development to a considerable size , from a liquid containing nothing fnrther than phosphate of soda and tartrate of ammonia , in a flask from which the air had been most thoroughly withdrawn , and which when containing the liquid and hermetically sealed , had been heated to so high a temperature , was ( admitting the conditions and performance of the experiments to be faultless ) an absolute proof of the evolution of living matter de novo .
For my own satisfaction I determined to commence a series of careful experiments in some cases adhering strictly to the conditions of those made by Dr. Bastian ; but it was necessary to devise some refinement on the mode of examining the liquids experimented on without exposure to atmospheric air .
" Sir Walter Noel Hartley .
1-X and 'Flitters , Tatters , and the Councillor .
' He remained in Dublin until he was retired under the age limit , when he received the honour of Knighthood .
While at King 's College .
he did much important original work , including his remarkable researches on the fluid cavities in minerals , in which he was the first to utilise Andrews ' discovery of the critical point of gases for the determination of the nature of the liquids found in even microscopic cavities .
The experimental method which he devised for this purpose was , as all his methods were , simple , ingenious , and effective .
It was when he had finished this work , and while still at King 's College , that he began in earnest the spectrographic studies which he pursued to the very end and by which he is principally known.* The value attached abroad to his work in this field is well shown by the invitation extended to him by Prof. Kayser , of Bonn , to wr1te the part relating to absorption spectra in his well-known 'Handbuch der Spectroscopie , ' 1905 .
In the preface to the third volume he writes : " Das dritte .
Kapitel dank ich Prof. W. N. Hartley in Dublin der mehr als alle ubrigen Forscher zusammen uber die Frage des Zusammenhanges zwischen Constitution und absorption gearbeitet hat , und der mir daher in erster Linie berufen schien eine zusammenfassende Darstellung zu geben , etc. " If Hartley 's work had been confined to absorption spectra this would be sufficient testimony to its value for the present purpose : but this was only one part of his spectroscopic work , and , though important , perhaps not the most important part of it .
I am indebted to Dr. W. E. Adeney , who was so intimately associated with Hartley , for a summary of his spectrographic work in general .
It is taken from the report submitted l'\gt ; y Dr. Adeney to the Senate of the Royal University of Ireland in support of a motion\#183 ; to confer on him the degree of D.Sc .
honoris causa .
" Prof. Hartley discovered a method by which , with unachromatised lenses , he was able to photograph entire spectra on a single plate including red rays and those far in the ultra-violet .
He was the first to apply dry plate photography to the purposes of studying spectra in 1877 .
During the succeeding twenty years he carried out a series of researches establishing the relationship between the molecular structure of carbon compounds and their absorption spectra .
He has applied the knowledge thus acquired to determining the molecular constitution of complex organic substances , the identification of poisonous alkaloids , an important matter in medico-legal analysis , and to the solution of various difficult and abstruse problems in the subject of organic chemistry .
" He demonstrated the physical relationship of such derivatives of coal tar as benzene and naphthalene to the brilliant dyes which are derived from * It is more than probable that the finding of several pieces of the apparatus used at an earlier date in similar work by Dr. William Allen Millar finally dirPcted Hartley 's mind towards this line of research .
Some of this earlier photographic apparatus he actually employed in his first experiments at King 's College , and it was wli.en there that he got his first grant from the Royal Society for the purpose of the investigation .
Vlll Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
In this research Hartley showed perhaps for the first time his extraordinary resources as an experimenter , which became afterwards so well known .
In those days the experimenter had to make all his own apparatus , and this paper is worthy of being read for the clever way in which the innumerable difficulties to be met with in such an investigation were overcome .
It will be sufficient here to refer to his use of hydrogen gas as a sterile atmosphere , in which he transferred the liquids from the heated tubes to the slides for microscopic examination .
The tubes .
containing sodium phosphate and ammonium tartrate were heated for a number of hours to temperatures lying between 110 ' C. and 150 ' C. They were then kept unopened at temperatures ranging from 24 ' to 34 ' C. , for different intervals of time ranging from two months to a year , without any form of life being visible in their contents .
'After opening the tubes and transferring some of their contents , in the sterilised atmosphere to the plates , nothing living was discovered .
When the liquids after prolonged preservation in sealed tubes were exposed to air filtered through cotton wool and kept at a temperature of 30 ' to 34 ' C. during the day-time and not below 24 ' U. at night , they remained quite unaltered , although kept for over a month .
When , however , the liquids which , after prolonged keeping without development of life , were afterwards exposed to ordinary air at a temperature ranging between 24 ' and 34 ' C. , they rapidly became turbid and full of living organisms .
Although Hartley thus showed that when he repeated Bastian 's experiments , taking those precautions which hi'\gt ; experience and study taught him were necessary to exclude all contamination by the atmosphere , no living organisms appeared , and that when these lifeless liquids were allowed to come in contact with unfiltered air , living organisms quickly appeared and multiplied , this did not prove that the organisms which appeared in Bastian 's tubes were not spontaneously evolved in them , because , in logic , it is impossible to prove a universal negative ; but it did raise the question-is it less likely that Bastian was not quite successful in completely protecting his solutions from contact with the air , admittedly a difficult experimental operation , than that living organisms were generated in a sterile liquid by some power or process which is not specified ?
Considered simply as a question of probability the chance of the accidental contamination of the contents of the tubes by air is so much greater than that of the production of life out of lifeless matter , which had never before been observed , that it must be accepted as equivalent almost to a certainty .
The publication of this paper was delayed for nearly a year by a very serious illness , to which Hartley nearly succumbed .
In the year 1871 Hartley became Senior Demonstrator in the laboratory of King 's College , London , under Prof. Bloxam , where he remained until 1879 , when he was made Professor of Chemistry in the Royal College of Science , Dublin , In 1882 he married Mary Laffan , the well-known writer of Irish fiction , and daughter of the late Michael Laffan , of Blackrock , co .
Dublin .
Among her most successful books may be cited ' Hogan , M.P. , ' _ , X Obituary Not , ices of Fellows deceased .
them , and explained that the former substances , which to the human eye are colourless , are in reality coloured , but the vibrations are so rapid that the eye cannot perceive them , though by retarding the vibrations visible colour is developed .
Hence we have colours visible and invisible .
He has explained the cause of the absorption spectra of organic bodies to l ; ie due to their molecular and intramolecular vibrations and has calculated from the velocity of light the mean rates of vibration of the molecules of benzene , naphthalene , and anthracene .
He has studied the absorption spectra of the different constituents of the atmosphere , and shown that the abrupt limitations of the sun 's spectrum , which is short as compared with that of electric light , can be caused by no other constituent of the atmosphere than ozone , which exerts an extraordinary absorptional power on the ultra-violet rays .
" He was the first to show in 1883 the inter-relationship of the spectra of the elements , when classified according to the periodic law ; and by the discovery that the spectra of magnesium , zinc , and cadmium are the result of three series of harmonic vibrations with similar intervals , the fundamental vibrations of which differ only in pitch , he was the first to recognise the law of homologues in the spectra of the elements .
This law was recognised independently iu 1885 by Prof. J. R. Rydberg , of Stockholm , and has since been elaborately studied by him and by Profs .
Kayser and Rung .
" Prof. Hartley 's facts pointed to the conclusion that metallic elements , having certain chemical properties in common and whose atomic weights differ by approximately constant quantities , and whose spectra are similarly constituted , are molecules of the same kind of matter but in different states of condensation .
" He applied his observations to deciding the question as to the true position of the metal beryllium in the classification of the elements .
In association with some of his students he carried out a series of original investigations on the spectra of some thirty of the elements and amongst the wave-lengths of the spark spectra , which he published in conjunction with Dr. W. E. Adeney , are those of the lines due to air , which are of such importance in all spark spectra observations .
He devised simple and extremely delicate methods of analysis which have led to the discovery of the wide distribution of several rare substances and of their mode of occurrence in minute proportions in a large number of common ores and minerals , in meteorites and metallurgical materials and products .
He was the first to discover the presence of the rare earth yttria in any British mineral .
" By exact investigations on the spectra of the flame seen in the manufacture of steel by the Bessemer process he has shown that the metals iron and manganese are largely vaporised in the operation , which is evidence of the very high temperature attained .
He took several series of photographs of spec~a during intervals of half a minute during the entire course of the process , and explained , from a study of them , the thermochemistry of the changes brought about in the refining of iron .
Sir Walter Noel Hartley .
Xl " He has applied the study of the spectra of starch , sugars , and the albuminoids from grain , to the decision of questions connected with the industries of brewing and distilling .
" The work executed by Prof. Hartley and Mr. Ramage with the great spectrometer of the Royal University , namely , the proof of the existence of gallium in the sun , has recently been confirmed in the United States by Prof. Rowland , of Baltimore."* I am much indebted to Messrs. Adeney and Dobbie for supplying these notes ; it would have been outside my competence to do so .
The bulk of Hartley 's spectroscopic work was done after he went to Dublin in 1879 , and from that time onwards I saw him only in the holidays .
From 1878 to 1881 I was fortunate in usually getting him to spend part of the summer with me while carrying out sounding and dredging operations in the steam yacht " Mallard , " which I had built after the return of the " Challenger " \#183 ; for the study of the Scottish seas .
During the voyage of the " Challenger " Hartley was my only regular correspondent outside of my family , and he hardly ever missed a mail .
In August , 1913 , while at Braemar for his health , I had to make the voyage to the Cape for my own health , and I asked him to let me have a letter from him when at the Cape as a remembrance of old times .
I got the letter , cheerful and hopeful ; but , before I received it , he was no more .
During the long summer days on the West Coast of Scotland he interested * In supplement of the above report by Dr. Adeney the following notes regarding later work have been kindly supply \lt ; l by Dr. James J. Dobbie , F.R.S. : " In 1898 Hartley commenced a study of the relation between the spectra and constitution of tautomeric substances in conjunction with James J. Dobbie . !
satin and carbostyril were first selected for investigation.\#183 ; Each of these bodies gives rise to two stable methyl-derivatives , one of which had been proved by satisfactory chemical evidence to possess the 'lactam , ' the other the 'lactime ' constitution .
The constitution of isatin and carbostyril themselves , l\#171 ; :\gt ; wever , had not been determined with certainty , the chemical evidence pointing partly in one direction , partly in the other .
By comparing the absorption spectra of the parent substances with those of their methylderivatives it was at once obvious that they were practically identical with the spectra of the derivatives to which the lactam constitution had been assigned , viz. methylpseudoisatin and methyl-pseudo-carbostyril .
Convincing evidence was thus afforded that isatin and carbostyril are themselves lactams and not lactimes .
This method of investigation was afterwards applied to a large number of substances , including the ethyl esters of dibenzoylsuccinic acid , o-oxycarbanil , and phloroglucinol , and has proved a valuable aid to the chemist in the study of the obscure phenomena of tautomerism .
It possesses the great advantage over the usual chemical methods of attacking constitutional problems , that the possibility of molecular rearrangement occurring during the examination is practically excluded .
" In the course of these investigations the optical isomerides benzanti- and benzsynaldoxine were examined and found to possess the same absorption spectra .
This observation has proved to be of considerable practical value especially in the investigation of alkaloids , as it provides a ready means of deciding whether two alkaloids having the same composition and molecular weight are structural or optical isomerides .
" Xll Obituary Not1:ces of Fellows deceased .
himself much in my work , and was entertaining as well as instructive when talking of his own work .
His many-sidedness made him a particularly interesting companion .
It was during one of these cruises that he told me about his experiments with chlorophyll and its absorption spectrum .
During the expedition of the " Dacia " in 1883 , I obtained from one of the " oceanic shoals , " the discovery of which marked a change of view and of practice in deep-sea sounding , fragments of shell and calcareous rock , coloured green , and , when preserved in spirit , the green colouring matter transferred itself to the spirit and coloured it green .
On my return home I sent the spirit to Hartley , thinking it would interest him .
He examined it spectroscopically and found that the colouring matter was chlorophyll .
He then experimented on some spirit rendered purple by the colouring matter of Holothurians from great depths and found that this also was a variety of chlorophyll .
This was a most important discovery of Hartley 's , for which he has not received sufficient credit .
It at once explained the colour of the band of \#183 ; green water found on the western oceanic shores of continents in tropical regions , where the water is abnormally cold and generally of an intensely green colour .
The low temperature and the green colour are characteristic of the abysmal water , which in these regions rises to the surface , in order to make good the drain of warm surface water , removed by the Trade winds blowing off shore .
Of equal importance with his work on absorption-spectra was that on the spectra of the elements in the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe and its application to the study of the Bessemer flame .
The importance of the latter was very farreaching .
In all his experimental work the primary interest for Hartley was the trustworthiness of his methods and the exactness of his results .
But there were interests for him beyond these .
All that he did was illuminated by his inherited artistic feeling and by his conception of the place which the results of his work would take in general Natural History .
Hartley was a follower of Lord Kelvin , who always used to call himself a Naturalist .
He held that Inorganic Natural History is as extensive and as important as Organic Natural History .
The importance of his Bessemer work for Natural History was fixed in my memory by the picturesque account which he gave of a day 's excursion from Malvern , where he was staying for the benefit of his health .
The weather being fine and clear , he walked up to the high ground in the neighbourhood , whence there was an uninterrupted view in the direction of the great centres of the Midland steel industry .
There he sat down and waited until , from his familiarity with the routine in such works , he knew that the " Bessemer blow " would be started .
Then one metallic eruption after another appeared on the horizon , each forming its own " pillar of cloud , " which gra.dually drifted over the plain , getting thinner as it spread out , and shedding by degrees its metallic contents over the surface of the ground .
His graphic description of this scene made a great impression on . .
Sir Walter Noel Hartley .
Xlll me , and it furnished a fresh illustration of bow manifold are the ways in which strange matter can be distributed over the snrface of the earth .
Incidents such as these show how informing Hartley was in ordinary intercourse , especially when artistic influences made themselves felt .
He was very reserved , and this was perhaps due to a slight deafness , which troubled him all his life .
Though reserved , he was full of human sympathy , and never forgot any act of kindness in others .
Although hampered all his life by frail health and by none too easy circumstances , he turned out an amount of first-rate work that the most robust might be proud of .
He was a rapid worker .
Helped largely by his keen insight and full knowledge , he obtained results from which he deduced accurate conclusions without loss of time over minute details .
It will be some time before all his work has been completely assimilated by Science .
In 1906 he received the Longstaff medal from the Chemical Society , in recognition of the great value of his scientific work .
With his retirement from the active duties of his professorship his experimental work ceased , and at the same time his health became more and more uncertain .
For this he tried various changes of scene , but without much success .
Finally , in the summer of 1913 , he went to the Aberdeenshire Highlands , a district which he knew well and with which he had old associations .
While there the fine mountain climate relieved his suffering and raised his spirits , and , being naturally very sanguine , he was looking forward to a more lasting relief of his troubles than he had experienced .
This feeling seemed to give him too much confidence , and , in his enjoyment of the exhilaratmg air and scenery he overstrained his bodily powers , but not so as to cause any anxiety .
It was fatigue which would be dissipated by a night 's rest .
He went to bed and passed away peacefully in his sleep .
He is survived by Lady Hartley and by their only son , W. J. Hartley , teacher in Agricultural Bacteriology in the University College , Cardiff .
It is , perhaps , more than a coincidence that the son should devote himself for life to the subject in which his father first made a name in Science .
But at that date the subject was new and the word " Bacteriology " had not been coined .
If circumstances had been different , I have Hartley 's own word for it that his career would certainly have been different .
When talking recently about his early work in the laboratory of the Royal Institution he said to me : " If I could have afforded it I should have stuck to Bacteriology .
" Unfortunately , in 1872 there was not the possibility of earning a livelihood in it .
What Bacteriology lost Chemistry and Physics gained .
J. Y.B .
XIV HUGH MARSHALL , 1868-1913 .
HUGH MARSHALL was born in Edinburgh , January 7 , 1868 , and was educated at the Moray House Normal School .
On leaving school he applied himself to the study of Chemistry , at first under Dr. Drinkwater , and afterwards in the Chemistry Department of the University of Edinburgh .
He also attended the classes in the curriculum for Degrees in , Science , and in 1886 graduated as B.Sc. In 1887 the Gunning " Joseph Black " Prize and the Mackay Smith Scholarship in Chemistry were awarded to him .
In the same year he was appointed one of the assistants in the Chemistry Department .
On two occasions he obtained leave of absence for a summer session and spent the time at Munich with Profs .
Groth and Kruss , and in Ghent with Prof. Renard , in the further study of Mineralogy and Crystallography .
In 1890 he graduated as D.Sc .
, the subject of his thesis being the work on the electrolytic oxidation of cobaltous salts described below .
In 1894 he was appointed Lecturer on Mineralogy and Crystallography , and in 1902 Lecturer on Chemistry .
On the appointment of Prof. Walker , in 1908 , to the Chair of Chemistry in Edinburgh , Dr. Marshall succeeded him in Dundee .
Dr. Marshall became a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1888 , of the Chemical Society in 1889 , and of this Society in 1904 .
He was also a corresponding Member of the Mexican Scientific Society " Antonio Alzate .
" In 1904 the Council of the Royal Society of Edinburgh awarded to _him the Keith Prize for the discovery of the persulphates .
He also held the Keith Medal of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts , and a Medal of the Edinburgh Association of Science and Arts for his invention of the " Petrolite " lamp , an ingenious arrangement for the safe burning of volatile hydrocarbons .
At the close of the summer session of 1913 , he went , as captain of the Dundee company of the St. Andrews University Officers ' Training Corps , to camp at Ilkley .
After the training he went to Paris , but not feeling well returned to London .
There it was discovered that he was suffering from enteric fever .
He died in London on September 5 .
Prof. Marshall was a very able and successful teacher , and gave a great deal of time and thought to this part of his work , but yet was able to make important contributions to our knowledge of Chemistry .
\#183 ; He took a great interest in the application of electrolysis to the separation and quantitative determination of metals , and , in repeating Classen 's separation of copper and cobalt , observed that after all the copper must have been deposited , the solution was green , and that further electrolysis did not change the colour .
To this green liquid he added sulphuretted hydrogen , which produced !
!'white cloudiness due to separated sulphur , while the liquid became pink : it was obvious that there was no copper in the solution and \#183 ; Hugh Marshall .
xv that some of the cobaltous salt had been oxidifed .
This observation led him to examine the electrolytic oxidation of cobaltous salts .
By using a divided cell , with dilute sulphuric acid in the cathode compartment , and solution of cobaltous sulphate and sulphuric acid in the anode compartment , he obtained pure crystallised cobaltic sulphate , and from this prepared potassium and ammonium cobaltic alums , in blue octahedra , with 24 molecules of water , exactly as in the well \#183 ; known alums .
While engaged in this investigation , he observed that in the electrolysis of a solution containing potassium hydrogen sulphate along with cobaltous sulphate and sulphuric acid , there were deposited in the anode compartment not only crystals of potassium cobaltic alum , but also small colourless crystals . .
These he collected and examined , and found that they consisted of potassium persulphate .
He followed up this incidental discov ery , and prepared directly by electrolysis potassium and ammonium persulphates , and from them , by double decomposition , other persulphates .
Bertheiot had , in 1878 , obtained persulphuric anhydride , S20 7 , by the action of the silent electric discharge on a mixture of sulphurous anhydride and oxygen .
When dissolved in water this gave an acid solution which quickly decomposed giving off oxygen and leaving sulphuric acid .
Berthelot obtained a similar solution by the electrolysis of sulphuric acid .
By cautiously neutralising this unstable solution with baryta , he obtained , besides a precipitate of barium sulphate , a solution gradually decomposing into oxygen , barium sulphate and sulphuric acid .
This soluble barium salt could be nothing but barium persulphate , but Berthelot was unable to isolate it , and fourteen years later , in welcoming Marshall 's discovery , speaks of the persulphates as hitherto only dimly seen .
Dr. 'Marshall studied the oxidising action of the persulphates , showing its analogy to that of the halogens , in giving , for instance , tetrathionates from thiosulphates .
He showed the remarkable modification of the oxidising action caused by the presence of even a small quantity of a soluble silver salt .
Persulphates precipitate peroxide of manganese from a solution of a manganous salt , but in the presence of a soluble silver salt the manganese is oxidised to permanganic acid .
Marshall referred this action to silver peroxide continuously formed and reduced , the action of the silver peroxide on the manganous salt being similar to that of lead peroxide in Walter Crum 's test for manganese .
He further showed how persulphate with silver nitrate can be used for the colorimetric determination of even very minute quantities of manganese .
Dr. Marshall at first , misled by an error in the published results of conductivity measurements in the case of potassium perchlorate , preferred the simple formula KS04 , but when the error was pointed out and corrected , he at once adopted the double formula K 2S20 8 , which as Bredig and also Moeller showed agrees with other physical properties .
The work on the oxidation of cobaltous salts was published in the Chemical Society 's 'Transactions , ' September , 1891 .
A note on the persulphates was VOL. XC.-A , c XVI Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh on February 16 , 1891 , and printed in the ' Proceedings .
' A much fuller account of this work is contained in the Chemical Society 's 'Transactions , ' September , 1891 .
In 1897 Dr. Marshall published in the 'Journal of the \#183 ; society of Chemical Industry ' a paper on the manufacture and industrial uses of the persulphates .
He wrote the report on Inorganic Chemistry for the Chemical Society in 1896 and 1897 .
He translated into English Prof. Groth 's 'Introduction to Chemical Crystallography .
' By Prof. Marshall 's death Science has lost an acute and original investigator and a zealous and sound teacher : all who knew him personally mourn a very true and hearty friend .
A. C. B. ALEXANDER ROSS CLARKE , 1828-1914 .
ALEXANDER Ross CLARD~ was born on December 16 , 1828 ; he came of an old Highland family in Sutherlandshire .
After an ordinary school education he , somewhat suddenly , formed the desire to join the Army and presented himself for the entrance examination for the Royal Military Academy , Woolwich .
The time allowed him for preparation , only about , three weeks , naturally did not permit him to take his just place ; he was successful but his name was somewhat low on the list .
Once at Woolwich , however , he rapidly worked his way up and in the passing out examination gained the first place and obtained his commission as a second lie\#183 ; utenant in the Royal Engineers in 1847 .
He was posted to the Ordnance Survey at Southampton in 1850 ; he was quartered in Canada from 1851 to 1854 , in which latter year he returned to the Ordnance Survey and spent in it the whole remainder of his service until his retirement as lieutenant-colonel in 1881 .
In 1856 he took charge of the Trigonometrical and Levelling departments .
The work of the Principal Triangulation had been completed in the field in 1851 and Clarke 's first task was to reduce the observations and discuss and publish the results .
This he accomplished with extraordinary rapidity ; the great volume on the " Account of the Observations and Calculations of the Principal Triangulation and of the ~igure , Dimensions and Mean Specific Gravity of the Earth as derived therefrorn " was published in 1858 .
To appreciate the magnitude of this achievement it must be remembered that the metho~ of geodetical calculation were then by no means in the comparatively simple form they have since assumed .
The first half of the nineteenth century had seen a great development in the practice both of Alexander Ross Clarke . . .
XVll observation and of reduction of geodesy .
The work of Gauss , Bessel and later of St , ruve had perfected the system of calculation , at the same time rendering it more laborious , by the introduction of least square adjustments .
Struve 's work was , however , not published , except in part , and the account of the Great Triangulation of India was in such a cumbrous form and the calculations were so voluminous , clerical labour being then very cheap in India , that the precedent of Indian work was of little value when applied to British conditions .
Clarke followed Bessel ( Grad11iessu1w in Ostpreussen ) closely and the whole network of triangles covering the British Isles was broken up into a series of 21 figures , the most complicated figure involving the solution of 64 equations of condition and the average figure of 44 .
This is not the place to undertake any discussion of the technical details , but as directly bearing upon Clarke 's work it may be briefly stated that the results of modern re-observation most amply justify his procedure and seem to show that his method of reduction got out of the observed quantities a final result as accurate as could possibly be obtained .
Though modern practice has in certain particulars greatly simplified such work , and though the rigorous reduction of such a complex network will probably never again be undertaken , Clarke 's volume must always remain a model .
In 1860 the Russian Government invited the co-operation of the Governments of England , France , Germany and Belgium in the measurement of a longitudinal arc from Valentia , inlreland , to Orsk .
An essential preliminary was the comparison of the various national standards of length , a task which was entrusted to Clarke and was carried out by him in a specially designed room built at the Ordnance Survey Office .
The results of this , which included also the standardisation of 10-foot bars for India and Australia , was published in 1866 and Clarke took the opportunity of rediscussing the figure of the earth .
In this he exhibited the same genius for calculation already evident in his previous work .
In 1878 he again returned to this subject and incorporated further elements in the form of longitudinal arcs observed in India , as well as improved values for Indian , Anglo-French , and Russian meridional arcs .
The result showed that the Indian and European elements were not very consistent , that is to say they could not be combined into a spheroid of revolution , and though they could be better harmonised by an ellipsoid of three unequal axes it was not quite clear how far this concordance was due to actual ellipticity of the equator and how far to the apparent diminution of the residuals which would necessarily follow the substitution of three unequal axes for two axes in the computations .
However this may be , and modern geodesists would say that the earth , that is to say the geoid or surface to which the plumb line is everywhere normal , is neither a spheroid nor an ellipsoid , for all practical purposes Clarke 's results stand good .
In 1861 he published the abstracts of spirit levelling in England , Wales , and Scotland .
In this same year it was decided to re-observe the connection between the English and Continental triangulations , a necessary link in the XVlll Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
longitudinal arc already mentioned .
The junction of England and France , in order to determine the difference of position between Greenwich and Paris Observatories , had been originally made in 1783-87 and repeated in 1821-23 .
Now that the principal triangulation of England was completed it appeared .probable that the connection might be considerably improved , and to that end the British , French , and Belgian Governments co-operated and three English stations were connected with two French and four Belgian .
Clarke was 'mainly responsible for the arrangement of the work and himself observed at the English stations .
In 1863 he published the account and reductions .
In 1880 he embodied his accumulated experience in his " Geodesy , " which remains still , on the whole , the best book ou the subject in any language .
In 1881 he retired from the Ordnance Survey and from the Army .
His retirement was nothing short of a disaster to the national survey , there being no other member of the staff who had Clarke 's scientific attainments or mathematical knowledge .
Clarke is credited with seventeen entries in the Royal Society 's 'Catalogue of Scientific Paper~ , ' all on his own subject with the exception of one slight incursion into the theory of music .
He was elected a Fellow in 1862 and received the Royal Medal in 1887 for his comparison of the standards of length and his determination of the figure of the earth .
He was created a Companion of the Bath in 1870 .
In 1883 he and the Astronomer Royal were appointed delegates to the .
International Geodetic Congress .
From that \#183 ; time up to his death on February 11 , 1914 , he lived a retired life , taking no share in any public scientific activities .
He married in 1853 Frances , daughter of the late Major-General Dixon , R.E. ; she died in 1888 , leaving eight children , five daughters and three sons , who survive their father .
- .
E. H. H .

