1902 .
] Seed-fungus of Lolimn temulentum , L. , the Darnel .
27 glow coincide with these two systems .
For all those lines which disappear in the negative glow , 7065 , 4713 , 4472 , and the yellow line 5876 which nearly does so , belong to that system which , according to Rung and Paschen , is due to the gas helium ; whilst these which can be seen at the negative glow with their full brilliance , 6677 , 5016 , and 4922 , belong to the second system .
This differentiation of the helium spectrum brought about by the presence of mercury vapour might at first sight appear as a confirmation of the idea of Rung and Paschen that helium is a mixed gas , consisting of two different elements .
But taken in conjunction with the fact that the spectra of argon , neon , and krypton are all altered by the same treatment , no reliance necessarily can be placed on the argument .
In conclusion it is worth while pointing out that a helium-mercury tube containing the merest trace of hydrogen should be of value as a standard tube for spectroscopic measurements .
For it contains fourteen standard lines , amongst them ( C and F ) .
Moreover all these lines are of brilliance ten , very equally spaced from the extreme red to the violet , and with dark spaces between them .
He Red 7065 Hg Green 5461 He Red 6677 He Green 5016 H Red 6563 C He Green 4922 Hg Orange 6151 H Green 4861 F He Yellow 5876 He Blue 4713 Hg Yellow 5790 He Violet 4472 Hg Yellow 5769 Hg Violet 4359 " The Seed-fungus of Loliumtemulentum , L. , the Darnel .
" By E. M. Freeman , M.S. , University of Minnesota .
Communicated by Professor Marshall Ward , F.E.S. Received June 6 \#151 ; Read June 19 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) Darnel ( Lolium temulentum , L. ) has been known since Roman times for the poisonous properties of its grain .
It was not , however , until 1898 that the presence of an often considerable layer of hyphse was discovered just exterior to the aleurone layer of the grain ; to the action of this fungus-layer the poisonous properties are presumably due.* Nothing had hitherto been known regarding the method of # How far ergot and other fungi may be concerned is a disputed point.\#151 ; [ June 24 .
] Mr. E. M. Freeman .
[ June 6 , infection of the plant , although the presence of hyphse in the growing point from about the 8th day of germination to the formation of the fruit had been observed by one investigator , and but little positive evidence as to the real nature of the fungus has been produced .
In addition to the now known hyphal layer outside the aleurone of the grain the author has discovered a hitherto unnoticed patch of hyphae , just outside of and contiguous to the base of the scutellum .
From this patch hyphae can be found penetrating to the growing point of the embryo in the seed , and an abundant mycelium can usually be detected in the young growing point .
The hyphae continue their growth , always intercellular , in the growing point and in the leaf-bases until the formation of the inflorescence , when every young ovule contains an abundance of hyphae throughout the nucellus , and extending to within two cells of its exterior .
When the ovule elongates and assumes the ovoid form , there is formed a tongue of hyphae extending in the nucellus , from the funicular side to the micropyle on the inner or axial side of the embryo-sac .
This patch becomes isolated by the further elongation of the ovule , and by the cessation of growth of the hyphae in the funicle , and remains vigorous , forming an infection layer .
When the embryo has attained a length of about 3/ 10 mm. and the rudiments of a lateral growing point and a terminal scutellum have been formed , the hyphae penetrate from the infection layer into the growing point , and can be found here in abundance in the mature grain .
No trace of any formation of spores can be found anywhere , and they seem therefore unnecessary for the ordinary life-cycle of the fungus .
The bulk of the nucellar hyphae of the ovule are crowded into the layer occupying the now well-known position in the grain , by the growth of the endosperm .
They sometimes penetrate the latter , but have never been seen to form either sclerotia or spores .
This layer disintegrates during the germination of the grain .
Other varieties or species of Lolium also contain such a hyphal layer occasionally , probably identical with that of Darnel .
I have found it in L. temulentum , var .
arvense , With .
, and ; L. Br .
, very abundantly , and rarely in L. perenne , L. , L. Lam .
, and L. Br .
, besides in several doubtful species .
Several facts\#151 ; prominent among which are the ordinary sterility of the fungus and the apparent stimulation of the Darnel plant , as shown in the germination efficiency and the large size of the grains\#151 ; point strongly to this being a remarkable instance of symbiosis .
Such a symbiosis can be conceived as derived through a sclerotial or spore-forming condition by the substitution of an intra-seminal infection of the embryo after failure to reproduce in the usual way .
The principal points dealt with in the full paper , which is illustrated by figures , may be shortly summarised as follows :\#151 ; 1902 .
] Seed-fungus o/ Lolium temulentum , L. , the Darnel .
29 Summary .
1 The proportion of grains without to those with the fungus layer outside of the aleurone of L. temulentum varies , hut is usually from g0____jqq per cent. In some cases the microscopic differences are sufficient for diagnostic purposes .
2 The hyphse sometimes penetrate the aleurone at any point and invade the starch-endosperm , but no fructification or spores of any kind have been seen .
3 There exists in the nucellus , at the base of the scutellum and at the lower end of the inner groove of the grain , a layer of hyphse which lies directly against the embryo , constituting an infection layer .
4 .
Embryos of the grain of L. temu in a proportion approximately equal to that of the occurrence of the fungus in the grains , always contain hyphse in the growing point , and these hyphse can be traced to their origin in the infection layer .
They remain in the growing point throughout the life of the plant .
5 .
The course of the hyphse is always intercellular .
6 .
There is no reason for the supposition of any so-called " myco-plasm " in the embryo : the fungus always exists as distinct hyphse .
7 .
In the growing plant the fungus forms networks in the leaf-bases , of which the function has not yet been determined .
8 .
The nucellar hyphse of the grain undergo degeneration during germination without the formation of spores .
9 .
All attempts to obtain cultures of the nucellar hyphse have failed , indicating either that the hyphse here have lost their vitality or else , as is more probable , that they are too closely adapted to a parasitic ( or symbiotic ) life to allow of artificial culture .
10 .
In the young ovary a tongue of hyphse reaching from the funicle to the micropyle on the inner side of the grain , becomes detached from the remaining nucellar hyphse by the elongation of the ovule and the cessation of hyphal growth in the funicle .
11 .
Infection takes place from this layer as soon as the growing point of the embryo has appeared as a recognisable rudiment .
12 .
The fungus of other species seems very probably identical with that of L. temulentum , as cross-infections seem to be possible by grafting .
L. multiflwum , Lam .
, and L. italicum , Braun .
, also contain a hyphal layer .
13 .
There are serious objections to the reference of this fungus to the Ustilaginese , to the ergot-forming Pyrenomycetes or the Hypho-mycetes ( such as Woronin and Prillieux and Delacroix have described for poisonous rye ) , or to the suggestion that it is a Uredine .
14 .
The effect of the fungus upon its host seems rather beneficial than detrimental , and several facts point toward the confirmation of Mr. G. Barlow .
Effects of Magnetisation [ June 18 , Guerin 's suggestion of a symbiotic relationship .
Such can be conceived of as arising from a former sclerotium- ( or spore- ) forming habit by the adoption of a new intra-seminal mode of infection .
" On the Effects of Magnetisation on the Electric Conductivity of Iron and Nickel .
" By Guy Barlow , B.Sc. , Research Fellow of the University of Wales .
Communicated by Professor A. Gray , F.R.S. Received February 20 , \#151 ; Read March 6 , \#151 ; Received in revised form June 18 , 1902 .
That magnetisation has an effect on the electric conductivity of metals was first noticed in 1856 by William Thomson* * * S ( Lord Kelvin ) , and since then , on account of its very great theoretical interest , this phenomenon has formed the subject of numerous experiments .
These later investigations have been made by Tomlinson , !
Righi , Hurion , S Leduc , || Ettingshausen and Nernst , U Ettingshausen , ** * * SS Goldhammer , tt Lenard and Howard , Lenard , SS Henderson , |||| Beattie , HUE Gray and Jones , *** and others .
Two cases of the phenomenon must be carefully distinguished\#151 ; ( i. ) Longitudinal effect , when the direction of the electric current is parallel to the lines of magnetic force , ( ii .
) Transverse effect , when the current is perpendicular to the lines of force .
The latter effect is closely connected with the Hall phenomenon , and has received the name of Longitudinal Hall Effect .
The following results obtained by previous experimenters are of interest in connection with the present investigation .
For bismuth , Goldhammer found the change of resistance to vary as the square of the magnetic field , and since in this metal the magnetisation I is proportional to the field , this result may be written A\lt ; \#163 ; = \#171 ; I2 , where A\lt ; \#163 ; denotes the fractional increase of resistance , i.e. , the increase of resist* ' Math , and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 307 .
f * Phil. Trans. , ' 1883 .
J ' Journ. de Physique , ' vol. 3 , p. 355 ( 1884 ) .
S * Count .
Rend .
, ' vol. 98 , p. 1257 ( 1884 ) .
|| * Count .
Rend .
, ' vol. 98 , p. 673 ( 1884 ) .
f ' Wien .
Ber .
, ' vol. 94 , part 2 , p. 560 ( 1886 ) .
## \lt ; Wien .
Ber .
, ' vol. 95 , p. 714 ( 1887 ) .
ft ' Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 31 , p. 360 ( 18S7 ) ; vol. 36 , p. 804 .
' Electro-technisehe Zeitschrift , ' vol. 9 , p. 341 .
SS ' Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 39 , p. 619 ( 1890 ) .
1111 ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 2 , p. 488 ( 1894 ) .
flT ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 1 , p. 243 ( 1898 ) .
##* \lt ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * 1900 , vol. 67 .

