The Araucciriece , Recent and Extinct .
of the anthers , are considered to indicate a closer relationship between Welwitschia and Gnetum than between Welwitschia and Ephedra .
Female Flovjers.\#151 ; Observations are recorded on the development of the macrosporangia and macrospores ; the nature of the prothallial tubes is discussed , and the conclusion is that the true interpretation of the extraordinary behaviour of the fertile end of the Welwitschia prothallus will be founded upon a comparison with the corresponding portion of the embryo-sac of Gnetum gnemon .
The Araucaviece , Recent and Extinct .
By A. C. Seward , F.R.S. , Fellow ' of Emmanuel College , and Sibille 0 .
Ford , formerly Bathurst Student of Newnham College , Cambridge .
( Received November 13 , 1905 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper includes the following sections:\#151 ; I. Introduction.\#151 ; The work was undertaken primarily with a view to ascertain whether the genera Agathis and Araucaria exhibit any of those features which are often associated with survivals from the past ; our aim was to obtain an answer to the question : Do the existing Araucarieae afford evidence of primitive characters or do they throw light on the phylogeny of the Araucarian phylum ?
II .
Distribution.\#151 ; A brief account is given of the present distribution of existing species .
Agathis is for the most part an island type .
Araucaria is met with in the same area as that occupied by Agathis , but occurs also in Chili , S. Brazil , and Bolivia ; the most widely spread species\#151 ; A. Cunninghamii\#151 ; extends over an area 900 miles long in Queensland and New ' South Wales , and is recorded from New Guinea .
Five species of the genus have been described from New Caledonia .
III .
Generic Diagnosis and Synonomy of Species.\#151 ; In this section an attempt is made to give a concise account of the more striking characteristics of each species with a list of references to descriptions and records of the several types .
IV .
Seedlings.\#151 ; The seedlings described belong exclusively to the genus Araucaria ; those of A. Bidwillii and A. imbricatd , characterised by the swollen food-storing liypocotyl , are described in detail .
In one case the steal 164 The Araucariece , Recent and Extinct .
of the young root of A. Bidwilliiwas found to branch into two steles of equal size .
Y and YI .
Hoot and Stem Anatomy.\#151 ; A general account is given of the characteristic features of the anatomy of both genera based partly on the work of others and in part on our own investigations .
YII and VIII .
Leaves and Leaf-traces.\#151 ; Several types of leaves are described with special reference to the relative abundance of centripetal and centrifugal xylem in the veins .
The relation of the leaf-traces to the stem-wood is discussed at length , and some account is given of the behaviour of the traces during the growth in thickness of the stem .
IX .
Reproductive Shoots.\#151 ; This section includes an account of the male and female flowers of Agatliisand Araucaria , special attention being paid to the course of the vascular bundles in the sporophylls .
We are led to the conclusion that the cone-scales of the female flowers are simple structures homologous with foliage leaves .
A description is given of the ovules and embryos of Araucaria imbricata .
X. Fossil Araucariece.\#151 ; The records of fossil representatives of the two surviving genera are critically examined , and evidence is adduced in support of our contention that the Araucarieae constitute one of the oldest sections of the Coniferales .
XI .
Phylogenetic Considerations and Conclusion.\#151 ; A comparison is made between the Araucariea ; and Lycopodiales ; arguments are advanced in favour of the view that this group of Gymnosperms , unlike the Cycaclales , was probably derived from Lyeopodiaceous ancestors .
We draw attention to the various characters in which the Araucarieae differ from other members of the Coniferales , and suggest the advisability of giving more definite expression to their somewhat isolated position by substituting the designation Araucariales for Araucariete .
Our contention is that the general consent which has deservedly been given to the view that the Cycadales and Eilicales are intimately connected by descent , may have the effect of inducing an attitude too prone to over-estimate the value of the arguments advanced in support of an extension of the idea of a filicinean ancestry to other sections of the Gymnosperms .

