]\gt ; Velocity of a-Partides in through Matter .
443 It is therefore clear that the large alteration produced by the acid in the value of the ratio of the final to the initial rotation in the experiments on : the hydrolysis of cane sugar oan be completely and satisfactorily explained by the changes produced by the acid in the rotatory powers of the three sugars involved .
The Decrease in yelocity of a-Partides in through Matter .
By E. MARSDEN , M.Sc .
, Lcturer , and T. S. TAYLOR , Ph. D. , John Harling Fellow , University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received Apri122 , \mdash ; Read May 1 , 1913 .
) It is becoming recognised that one of the most fruitful sources of information as to the internal structure of atoms is provided by the phenomena attendin the passage of swift electrified particles through them .
In particular from a consideration of the scattering of -particles it has been found that the atom consists essentially of a very concentrated charge at the centre of the atom*surrounded by electricity of the opposite sign , probably electrons , distributed throughout the remainder of the atom .
Further , Darwin and have attempted to obtain information as to the number and distribution of electrons in the atom by a consideration of the absorption or loss of velocity of the -particles in passing through matter .
The only data for this purpose so far obtainable aoe provided by the velocity curves , or relations between velocity and thickness of matter traversed , in aluminium as determined by Rutherford , S and in mica as determined by It seemed , therefore , of interest to make a more complete investigation of the velocity curves in various ances , more particularly as the earlier observations are subject to slight errors due to the assumption that equal thicknesses of matter have the same air equivalent at different parts range of -particles .
In the present experiments the velocity curves in gold , copper , aluminium , mica and air have been determined , using as source the -particles of E. Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag 1911 , vol. 21 , p. 669 .
C. G. Darwin , ' Phil. Mag 1912 , vol. 23 , p. 907 .
N. Bohr , ' Phil. Mag 1913 , vol. 26 , p. 10 .
S E. Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag 1906 , vol. 12 , p. 138 .
Geiger , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1910 , , vol. 83 , p. 605 .
VOL LXXXVIIL\mdash ; A. 2 I The source consisted of a fine platinum wire cm .
in length and mm. in diameter which had been exposed to a strong source of radium emanation so as to become activated with a deposit of about 20 millicuries radium C. Twenty minutes after the wire was withdrawn from the emanation the radium A had practically disappeared , so that the -particles emitted came from radium only .
The source fitted with its ends in a support attached to the pIatform , which also held the slit wire being adjusted so as to be parallel to the slit and about 8 cm .
from it .
The platform could be slipped into the brass chamber and against a stop as shown in the figure , the opening being closed by a ground glaSs plate I , and the whole evacuated through a tube by means of a Fleuss pump and cooled charcoal : The foils whose absorption was under inveitigation were placed over windows in a " " laddtr\ldquo ; , and by means of a pie66 of thread attached 3 1913 .
] Velocity of rticles in passing through Matter .
445 round a tube projecting from a ground-glass joint any particular window : could be placed opposite the source without altering the exhaustion in any way .
The absorption foils were weighed in the form of single sheets and a number of layers taken , so that successive windows differed from one another by convenient amounts .
In all cases the air equivalents of the windows were also obtained by the scintillation method , these measurements affording a useful .
check on the weighings .
The pencil of -particles passed through the slit and fell on the zinc sulphide screen , producing a fine line of scintillations , the position of which could be easily read to 1/ 20 mm. by means of a travelling microscope K. The magnetic field was then applied perpendicular to the plane of the diagram and the position of the line of scintillations again read .
The successive windows were then moved in front of the source and the new positions of the line of scintillations determined .
Similar observations were made with the same value of the magnetic field , but reversed , and the double deflections obtained by subtracting the corresponding readings .
Measurements were continuedwith different field strengths up to9000 gauss , until the radium had decayed to such a small activity that observations were difficult to make .
The relative velocities were calculated by substituting in the formula , where , and are the respective values of the mass , velocity , and charge of the -particles , the field strength and the radius of curvatule of the path of the particles obtained from the relation .
In the latter formula is the deflection produced by the magnetic field as measured on the screen , and and the distances of the slit from the source and screen respectively .
This formula applies to th .
experiments , as the whole of the path of the particles was in the magnetic field , which was uniform to less than 1 per cent. throughout the whole of its length .
In all cases the ratios of the velocities , with and without absorption sheets , were ted , and these are practically inversely proportional to the double deflections in the same magnetic field , a small correction being necessary , depending on the tudes of the deflections .
An example of a set of readings is given in Table I. The velocity curve obtained in the case of gold is shown in fig. 2 , the ordinates represent relative velocities and abscissae the mass per unit area , or thickness density , of the foils used .
For foils greater than about 6 cm .
air equivalent the velocity changes rapidly with thickness , and the method generally adopted was to place a foil of about cm .
air equivalent directly over the source , and to use additional foils for the windows of the " " ladder\ldquo ; increasing thickness by very small amounts .
446 Mr. Marsden and Dr. Taylor .
The Decrease in [ Apr. 22 , : Mass of gold per sq .
cm .
FIG. 2 .
The curve shown is seen to be smooth down to a velocity of of the initial velocity corresponding to a mass per square centimetre of or an air equivalent of cm .
at C. and 76 cm .
Hg .
Here a somewhat unexpected difficulty was encountered , for with additional thickness of foil no further diminution in velocity could be detected .
The line of scintillaiions apparently remained stationary although steadily decreasing in intensity with increasing thickness .
Similar results were obtained with Cu , Al , and mica ; in no case could we obtain with certainty a velocity less than about of the initial velocity of expulsion .
This question will be discussed more fully in a later section of the paper .
Table II gives the results of the experiments , the masses per unit area of arious meing given which wsary tVelocity ortides ihrough M velocity of the -particles to the fractions given in column 1 .
The values are taken from smooth curves drawn through the experimental points .
For gold and mica the values are probably correct to 1 per cent. , although the t$ results for copper and aluminium are not quite so reliable , owing to the unhomogeneity of the foils used .
As the velocity changes comparatively [ slowly with the thickness , especially for thicknesses up to about 3 cm .
air @ equivalent , the values of the velocity corresponding to any given thickness ' will have a considerably greater percentage accuracy .
The foils were in all cases commercially pure .
The values given for velocity are taken from the curves as the smallest mass per square centimetre necessary to give this velocity .
The values given in the last line of the table are the masses per square centimetre necessary to completely absorb the -particles in the various materials .
These numbers were not determined directly , but by extrapolation from the values necessary to cut down the range by about cm .
in air , using for the remainder of the range the numbers given by Richardson and one of u The method by which the values for air given in the last column were obtained is given in the next section .
Table II .
In connection with the above experiments the value of for the unabsorbed -particles was determined by substitution of the various values in the formulae given above .
The distances of the source from the slit and screen were and cm .
respectively .
With six values of the field varying between 4000 and 8500 gauss , the values of determined * Marsden and Richardson , ' Phil. Mag 1913 , vol. 25 , p. 184 .
*Cf .
Geiger and Nuttall , ' Phil. Mag October , 1912 , vol. 24 , p. 647 .
: rtides ihrough Mssumed ising tbove dparticles absorbed similarly by the various materials , i.e. either that the emergent -particles @# are homogeneous in velocity or that they are " " straggled\ldquo ; or sorted out in velocities to the same extent .
This question has been discussed by Richardson and one of us ( loc. cit and further evidence will be given in the next section of this paper .
It appears to us that we are justified in obtaining the air velocity curve in this way , at any rate to an accuracy within the .
possible experimental error , especially for velocities above of the initial velocity .
A difficulty arises measuring the air equivalents of foils greater than that corresponding to about cm .
If the experiment is done in air at ordinary pressure either by ionisation or by the scintillation method this difficulty is due to the large variation in intensity of the -particles at the end of the range with the source uncovered ( i.e. at about 7 cm .
distance ) , and the end of the range when such a thick foil is interposed ( i.e. less than 1 cm .
distance ) .
In our experiments the scintillation method was used , with radium as source .
A zinc sulphide screen was adjusted at the end of the range with and without the various foils interposed .
For the very thick foils the source was sometimes allowed to decay to a small intensity before making the adjustment with the foil covering the source .
The difference between the distances of the zinc sulphide screen from the source with and without the foil over it gives the air equivalent required .
As a check on the values for the thicker foils the source , foils , and screen were enclosed in a chamber which could be evacuated .
A constant distance separated the source and the screen , and the pressure was adjusted until the -particles just failed to reach the screen .
Even with these precautions a difficulty was encountered owing to the unhomogeneity of the foils , and for this reason more reliance is placed on the values obtained with mica .
The values are all reduced to C. and 76 cm . .
The masses per unit area corresponding to any air equivalent are in general a few psr cent. less than the values determined by Richardson and one of us from the variation of air equivalent along the range of foils of the order of 1 cm .
air equivalent .
For this reason the masses given by these authors for the equivalents per centimetre at various points of the range will require diminishing by a factor constant for each substance .
A direct determination of the air velocity curve was also made , although owing to the nature of the experiment the values obtained are probably not quite so accurate as those deduced by the above method .
The apparatus of fig. 1 was used , the slide holding the source and slit being modified as shown in fig. 3 .
The plate held a fine slit covered airtight by a thin mica window equivalent to about cm .
air , and the whole was waxed so as to The main chamber was evacuated completely , and the pressure varied in the bell-jar .
In this way the range of the -particles entering the magnetic deflecting chambe could be varied .
The air equivalent of the mica window was known at different parts of the range , and by adding the equivalent at and 76 cm .
Hg .
of the air between and at the various pressures the exact reduction of range could be calculated .
The reason that two slits were necessary arose from the considerable " " compound\ldquo ; scattering of the beam of -particles , which would otherwise cau se a spreading out of the pencil received on the zinc sulphide screen .
Even with the above arrange- ment a certain amount of spreading of the beam due to scattering is unavoidable , and also for the same reason there is a considerable reduction in the intensity of the -particles for low velocities where the scattering becomes considerable .
Thus measurements of a high degree of accuracy could not be obtained by this method .
The results are given in Column 4 of Table III , and they prove the substantial accuracy of the values calculated by the former method .
As in the expeliments with metal foils no certain evidence could be obtained of velocities below of the initial velocity .
Attempts to Obtain Velocities below of the Initial Velocity .
It has already been mentioned that with foils of any material , of thickness from cm .
air equivalent upwards , no reduction in velocity could be obtained below of the initial velocity .
This result is in agreement with Prof. Rutherford 's original experiments ( loc. cit in which a lower limit was obtained .
Rutherford used aluminium foils and a photographic plate to register the deflected bands of -particles , and it has generally been assumed that his failure to obtain low velocities arose from the want of uniformity of his foils .
Geiger ( loc. cit using mica as absorbing substance and the scintmation method , obtained two values of velocity as low as and of the initial velocity respectively .
1913 .
] Velocity of a-Particles in passing through .
451 ncreasi gfraction oheorder 2cattering wthen increase wheets otraversed iique direction through teeth phenomena oompound scattering , there jreater tbout 6This decrease arises f Observations at the end of the range are difficult owing to several causes : expected that there would be a variation in velocity in the -particles ' which do emerge .
Further , not only is the number of -particles in the beam greatly reduced , but the brightness of the scintillations themselves decreases considerably , and observation becomes difficult .
: From these considerations it will be seen that for low velocities it is necessary to use a very intense source , and to place uniform absorption sheets directly over it so as to keep the spreading of the beam at a minimum .
However , with these precautions , and using the arrangement of sliding absorption windows , we were unable , as has already been stated , to obtain velocities below of the initial velocity .
In all cases the deflection caused by a netic field remained constant for foils greater than cm .
air equivalent .
An experiment was tried in which the increase of thickness was obtained by rotating a sheet of mica of about 6 cm .
airequivalent about an axis parallel and very near to the source .
The same result was obtained ; after a certain rotation the deflected beam remained stationary until it was too faint to observe .
This result was obtained whether the whole of the apparatus was in the magnetic field or only that part from the slit to the zinc sulphide screen .
In another experiment the apparatus was cut down to half its length , and a source of radium equivalent to the amount in equilibrium with 15 millicuries of radium emanation was used , on a wire of 1/ 10 mm. diameter , with a slit 1/ 10 mm. wide .
Three foils of mica , equivalent to , and cm .
of air , were employed successively and placed directly over the source with a separate evacuation for each experiment .
The resultant double deflectiqns were and mm. respectively , and the double deflection for the bare wire was mm. These values are constant within the limits of experimental error due to the extreme faintness of the bands , the mean value of the velocity being of the velocity with the source uncovered .
The cross wire in the microscope was set in each case on the centre of the band of scintillations .
* H. Geiger , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1910 , , vol. 83 , p. 492 .
452 Mr. Marsden and Dr. Taylor .
The Decrease in [ Apr. Owing to the faintness of the bands there was some difficulty in estimating appeared narrower freater thicknesses.quivalent toany possible unhomogeneity ielocity.eflected b cm .
the measurements indicated that -particles of 39 to 47 per cent. of the initial velocity were present .
However , a lower limit of velocity was not at all evident even with the thicker micas .
Discussion of Results .
It will be more convenient first to discuss the results of the last section .
It is possible that in the beam of -particles after passing through cm .
air-equivalent , the velocities are distributed within the limits 39 to 47 per cent. , just mentioned .
With further absorption the particles of higher velocities may become degraded in velocity .
However , we are faced with the difficulty of accounting for the absence of -particles of lower velocities .
It is possible that they no longer produce scintillations .
This point was investigated with different zinc sulphide screens but with negative results .
But even if they no longer produce scintillations then it is probable that they also no longer ionise , for the ranges of -particles determined by the scintillation method are the same as those determined by the ionisation method .
The results may possibly be explained by assuming that when the velocity of an -particle falls below a certain value it is subject to a new special type of scattering , possibly by some kind of sub-central arge present in the atom .
From an examination of the large number of -particles in the photographs of C. T. R. Wilson*which exhibit large angle deflections in the last 2 mm. of the range as shown by the cloud trails we have calculated that this number is far in excess of the number to be expected on the laws of single scattering of Rutherford , experimentally proved by and one of us .
However , with such an hypothesis one might expect some difference in the limiting velocity with different substances unless it is supposed that the sub-centres are present in all atoms .
An alternative explanation may , of course , be obtained on the assumption that at this particular velocity the -particle takes on an electron and then has only one positive charge .
This would account for the limiting velocity coming practically the same in all the substances .
An attempt was made to detect such singly charged -particles but only one line of scintillations in the magnetically deflected beam could be observed .
It must be remembered , however , that Geiger apparently obtained one * C. T. R Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , p. 277 .
E. Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag 1911 , vol. 21 , p. 669 .
H. Geiger and E. , ' Phil. Mag 1913 , vol. 26 , p. 604 .
Velocity ohrough M there mdoes nurve ahing morea reement wWith aocit cuand ixcept focities 1they socity curve Geiger deduced fwhereV iocity , constant aange omergingfrom tbsorbing fPutting iotal range aiven ieducedthe paper focity curves iarious mocity radium Crrect ohere mchang.companying thewere ubtain socity .
Whether Geiger srove xpressed bubstances oncreasin.tomicweight .
This indicated bnergy curve fhown iDarwin ( firstattemptedtodeduceexpressionsforthevelocity S curve in various materials , the assumption being that the -particle loses energy by setting in motion the electrons in the atoms of the absorbing substance .
To avoid , as far as possible , any hypotheses as to the structure of atoms Darwin also assumed that an -particle only acts on the electrons in : an atom when it actually passes through the atom .
Bohr has extended Darwin 's results and removed the objection of limiting the action of the -particle .
Bohr arrives at a formula which may be reduced to where is the velocity of an electrified particle , the distance traversed through the absorbing material and A and are constants .
We have applied this formula to our results , but the agreement is only good for velocities greater than about of the initial velocity .
This , however , does not altogether contradict the theory , for certain assumptions used by Bohr in integrating his formula do not hold for low velocities .
For instance , the formula depends on the assumption that a certain distance exists , which is very small in comparison with * Bohr 's actual formula is ) .
and are the charge and mass of the electrified particle , and the corresponding quantities for an electron .
is the number of atoms per unit volume , and a constant .
The frequencies of the electrons in each atom are denoted by 454 Velocity of rtides in passing through Matter . .
This assumption comes in in the consideration of the effect of the atomic forces on the motion of the electrons disturbed by an -particle .
If we consider the variation in the velocity of an -particle when , say , i.e. , it can be calculated that must be extremely small compared with for this assumption to hold .
For oxygen , Bohr calculates from data of Planck and of Whiddington that for some electrons in the atom , and that for materials of higher atomic weight electrons of much higher frequencies must exist .
Thus Eohr 's conditions probably do not hold for low velocities , and this possibility he has himself already pointed out .
It is interesting to note that no theoretical explanation has so far been given for Bragg 's law that the absorption of -particles per atom of different substances is proportional to the square root of the atomic weight .
This law is not strictly accurate , as it cannot hold for all velocities of -particles , yet its wide range of approximate application seems to suggest that it has some simple theoretical foundation .
We are deeply indebted to Prof. Rutherford for his helpful encouraging interest in these experiments , and for supplying us with the large quantities of radium emanation necessary .

