230 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
[ Mar 31 wire has previously received permanent torsion in the opposite direction .
44 .
There is for all but very large magnetising forces a critical point of torsion , for which temporary torsion does not affect the temporary magnetic permeability .
45 .
When the critical point of torsion is passed , the temporary permeability increases with the torsion at first more rapidly than the torsion , and afterwards more slowly until a maximum is reached and the permeability begins to decline .
46 .
When the wire has previously suffered excessive permanent torsion , temporary torsion which has before produced increase of permeability now produces decrease .
47 .
The effect of temporary torsion on the temporary permeability of unannealed piano-steel wire is in the same direction as with annealed iron which has suffered excessive permanent torsion ( see 46 ) .
48 .
For a wide range of torsion the temporary permeability and the permanent permeability of annealed iron are oppositely affected by temporary torsion .
49 .
Fluid pressure does not temporarily affect either the temporary magnetic permeability of annealed iron , or the permanent magnetisation of hard steel , except , it may be , to a degree which is not comparable with that of the effect of stress applied in any one direction .
50 .
The application , however , or the removal of fluid stress like that of the stresses of compression , extension , and torsion , shakes out from annealed iron a certain amount of residual magnetism .
IV .
" Note on a New Constituent of Blood Seram .
" By L. C. Wooldridge , M.D. , D.Sc .
, Research Scholar to the Grocers ' Company .
Communicated by Dr. Pye- Smith , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1887 .
I wish in the present note to draw attention to a proteid substance which exists in very small quantity in blood serum .
Owing to the difficulty of obtaining a sufficient amount , I shall not attempt to give a complete description of its chemical characters , but shall confine myself chiefly to its physiological properties which , I venture to suggest , possess considerable interest .
It is obtained by rendering undiluted serum distinctly acid by means of dilute acetic or very dilute ( 4 pro mille ) sulphuric acid .
Neutralisation does not cause its precipitation ; the serum must have a strong acid reaction .
It is constantly present in the serum of dog 's blood , and when collected by the centrifuge it is precisely similar in physical characters to ordinary 1887 .
] On a New Constituent of Blood Serum .
fibrin , and only differs from the latter chemically by being more easily soluble in dilute alkali .
It is totally different from the soft granular precipitate of paraglobulin , the latter substance being extremely easily soluble in the slightest excess of acid .
It is also constantly present in serum of sheep 's blood .
In the case both of dog 's blood and sheep 's blood it is only present in very small amount , and in the serum from horse blood and bullock 's blood it was absent in the specimens I have examined .
The physiological interest of this substance will be seen from the following .
It is well known that Schmidt regarded two proteid substances as being essential for coagulation .
One of these bodies was paraglobulin , a substance existing in large quantity in blood serum .
Subsequent investigation has failed to confirm this view , and there can be no doubt that paraglobulin is not essential to the process .
But Schmidt has obtained results , the correctness of which we are in no way entitled to dispute , which apparently clearly show that the quantity of fibrin formed can be largely increased by the addition of paraglobulin .
I think this discrepancy can be explained by the help of this new substance , and this will be best shown by describing the following experiments .
Two portions of peptone plasma were taken , and To No. 1 , an equal quantity of sheep 's serum was added .
" No. 2 , a small quantity of a solution of the new substance .
No. 1 , after many hours only presented a scarcely perceptible flocculus of fibrin .
No. 2 was quite solid in 15 minutes ; on squeezing out the fluid from the clot and again adding a solution of the new substance , the mixture again clotted through and through .
Now Schmidt 's experiments were very much of this nature .
He found in certain specimens of hydrocele fluid that the addition of fibrin ferment produced very slight clotting , whereas on the further addition of a substance which he regarded as paraglobulin a decided clotting took place .
Now sheep 's serum contains plenty of paraglobulin and plenty of fibrin ferment , but it has no appreciable effect in my experiments .
But this new substance , which it must be remembered is only present in very small quantity in serum , had the most marked influence , and hence I conclude that it is the new substance , and not paraglobulin , which increases the amount of fibrin .
It may be mentioned that in preparing paraglobulin a certain amount of the new substance is always precipitated with the former substance .
A second physiological property of this new substance is the effect it exerts when injected into the circulation of a living animal .
It is very exceptional to find that the injection of blood serum Prof. T. H. Huxley .
On [ Mar. 31 ; produces any effect , serum containing plenty of paraglobulin and ferment but only traces of the new substance .
But the injection of a solution of this body prevents the coagulation of the shed blood .
Occasionally as the result of the injection very small thrombi are formed ; possibly if more could be obtained con .
siderable intravascular clotting might be set up .
The following is an example .
A quantity of the new substance obtained from 300 c.c sheep 's serum and well washed was dissolved in dilute alkali and salt solution .
( The amount of substance was I estimate 02 gram ) This solution was injected into the jugular vein of a rabbit .
The blood of this rabbit previous to the injection clotted in two minutes ; after the injection the blood drawn off remained quite fluid for three hours\#151 ; time of observation .
It clotted , however , directly on adding some of the solution injected .
The injection of considerable quantities of serum or of paraglobulin I have not found to have any appreciable effect . .
[ tself tlns substance , since it exists in so small amount , is of little interest , but as it appears to vary in quantity in different animals and under different circumstances , it is easy to see that misapprehensions as to the influence of paraglobulin on coagulation might easily arise .
These observations also throw great doubt on the power of fibrin ferment to produce a so-called intoxication .
This substance has an extremely feeble influence on dilute MgS04 plasma , and hence contains but a trace of fibrin ferment .
Since it is closely related to the fibrin-yielding matters of the plasma , and to the tissue fibrinogens I have elsewhere described , I should propose to call it serum fibrinogen .
V. " Preliminary Note on the Fossil Remains of a Ohelonian Reptile , Ceratochelys sthenurus , from Lord Howe 's Island , ' Australia .
" By Thomas H. Huxley , F.R.8 .
Received March 24 , 1887 , , interesting remains of which I propose to give a brief notice in the present communication , are contained in a friable sandstone ( apparently formed of concreted blown sand ) , and they have a very recent appearance .
The age of the deposit in which they are found is unknown , but it is probably quaternary .
The specimens have been for some years in the palaeontological collection of the British Museum ; and , for the most part , they have not yet been submitted to careful examination* But I learn that the greater number of them

