VIII .
Account of the repetition of Mr. Christie 's experiments on the magnetic properties imparted to an iron plate by rotation , at Port Bowen , in May and June , 1825 .
By Lieutenant Henry Foster , jR .
N. F. R. S. ; together with Mr. Christie 's remarks thereon .
Jl REvious to our leaving England in 1824 , Mr. Christie stated to me that he had some time ago discovered singular magnetic properties to be imparted to iron by simply making it revolve about an axis , and that these properties were exhibited in the different deviations which a plate of that metal would cause in a horizontal needle , according as it was made to revolve gently by the hand in one direction or the opposite : wishing me also to pursue these experiments as opportunites offered , in the high magnetic latitudes we were likely to visit in H. M. S. Hecla .
The memorandum with which he furnished me on this subject , suggested that the plate should be placed in certain magnetic positions to the compass ; for which purpose , unfortunately , I had no proper instrument .
Through the kindness , however , of Captains Parry and Hoppner , I was enabled to employ the carpenter of the Fury in constructing a suitable apparatus ; and I feel much satisfaction in acknowledging my obligations to them , for the ready assistance they afforded me on this , as well as on other occasions .
The instrument , which answered the purpose extremely well , is briefly described as follows .
Plate V. AB , fig. 1 , is the stand of the instrument , CDE F a wooden frame , across the upper part of which passes a copper bolt , G H , with clamping screws at s s. This bolt was flattened and bent down in the middle , as shown at K , where the compass was placed , LMNO is a copper frame , with two pins , T and V , inserted into it , to carry the circular iron plate , as shown also in the figure .
It is obvious , that with this instrument I was enabled to place the iron plate in any latitude by means of the graduated circle aa and plummet/ * , while by turning the frame CDEF in azimuth , it might , in like manner , be placed in any longitude : in all these cases the plane of the plate being a tangent to the sphere .
When it was required to place the plate , with its edge pointing to the centre of the meedde , or its plane in the plane of the secondary to the equator and meridian , I then employed the small stand shown in fig. 2 , whioh might be elevated to any height to bring the compass , whioh was placed on its ftop , to the required position .
It was also\#9830 ; employed when the plane of the plate coincided with that of the equator .
in order to imderstand the [ particular positions in question , it ^will be best to refer to figures 3 , 4 and 5 .
Fig.:S , represents the sphere circumscribing the needle viewed on the plane of the meridian ; 4 , on the plane of the secondary ; and 5 , on\#357 ; he plane of the equator .
In fig. 3 , C is the centre of the compass , SN the magnetic axis or line of the dip , Ew &lt; Q and e the equator , SEN Q the meridian , SeNw the secondary , n*wse the horizon , ns the horizontal magnetic meridian or axis of\#357 ; he horizontal needle , and^cw the east and tvest line .
The fpointsat which Mr. Christie wished observations ito be made , were at E , -S , Q , N , \#191 ; and z &lt; withtke , plane of the plate a tangent to the sphere at each ; that is , at E and Q the plate would revolve about the line E Q , and at S and N about the line S N , &amp;c. But with the plane of the plate in the plane of the secondary , he was most desirous that observations should be made ; and at the points s , w , N and e , fig. 4 .
I also made a set of observations at the points e , w , E , Q , fig. 5 , the plane of the plate being in the plane of the equator .
In consequence of the extent of the changes in the daily variation , I was under the necessity of making the observations in a different manner from that adopted by Mr. Christie ; they were in general made as follows .
The circular iron plate before mentioned , being divided into six equal parts , marked o , 60 , 120 , 180 , 240 , 300 , and the instrument above described so adjusted , that when the plate was placed on the copper pin T or V , its centre would occupy the position required ; the plate was then placed on the pin , with the point o , coinciding with the fixed mark or index , and the direction of the north end of the needle noted ; after which the plate was made to revolve three times for instance , gently by the hand , its upper edge moving from east to west , and o , being again brought to coincide with the index , the direction of the north end of the needle was again noted ; and the same was done , after making the plate revolve in like manner from west to east : the difference between the first and second reading , gave the deviation due to rotation from east to west ; and the difference between the first and third , that due to rotation from west to east The plate was then moved to a distance , in order that an allowance , if necessary , might be made for the change in the direction of the needle caused by the daily variation .
After this , the plate Was again fixed in its proper position , with its point 60 coinciding with the index , and the deviation caused by rotation obtained in the same way , and in like manner for the rest of the points 120 , 180 , 240 , 300 , o , in their order , and likewise in the order of succession 300 , 240 , 180 , 120 , 60 , o. The various effects due to the rotation of the plate , when placed in the different magnetic positions above specified , are noted in the tabulated experiments at each : it may nevertheless be proper here to state the nature of these deviations , in the different adjustments of the plate to the compass ; as for instance , in the experiments with its plane in the plane of the secondary , placed at Sand N , fig. 4 , 16,4 inches from the centre of the needle , the deviations were invariably to the east ; when its upper edge was made to revolve from west to east , and to the west in the opposite rotation : at the points e and w effects just the contrary were produced , viz. that while the upper edge of the plate revolved from west to east , the deflections were to the west , and in the opposite rotation to the east ; from which circumstance it was inferred , that there must be an intermediate latitude where no deviations of the needle would be produced by rotation , and this by experiment was ascertained to be latitude 52e\#191 ; North and south , as stated in the observations .
The effects of rotation of the plate on the needle when placed with its plane a tangent to the sphere , at the points E and Q , fig. 3 , were considerable , and always to the west , the upper edge revolving from east to west ; but at the other positions NSe and w , no effect due to rotation was observable .
The maximum effect of rotation ( amounting to 108o in one instance ) was produced with the plate in lat , 52o y N , long .
270o , thirteen inches from the centre of the needle , and also in lat. 52o fS , long .
90o .
These unusual quantities are doubtless attributable to a circumstance I had previously noticed in the voyage of H. M. S. Griper to Spitsbergen , where it was found , that with the ship 's head to the southward , the iron in the vessel neutralized the needle , or nearly so , and thereby left it free to obey any new force impressed upon it ; and so in these cases .
In both the positions specified , it will be seen that the needle was nearly neutralized by the plate , and therefore the effect of rotation was more strongly exhibited ; the character of these deflections were generally to the east of zero , or reading previous to rotation : .
but when the action of the plate co-operates with that of the earth , the contrary to the above effect of rotation of course takes place .
In this case the horizontal intensity rof the needle being increased , the effect produced by rotation is diminished , as will be seen when the plate was placed in lat. 5a'|N , long .
90o , and in lat 52 ' !
S , long .
270o : in both these positions the upper edge being made to revolve from east to west , the needle was deflected to the west .
The centre of the plate placed in lat. 52o ~N , long .
o ' , and in lat.\#163 ; 2'f S , long .
180o , the upper edge revolving from south to north , the deviations were to the west , and of greater amount than those to the east , caused by the rotation of the plate in the opposite direction .
Effects , however , precisely contrary to these last mentioned were produced by the revolutions of the plate , when fixed with its centre in lat. 52o !
S , long .
o ' , and in lat. 52'|N , long .
180o .
When the plate was adjusted with its plane in that of the equator , and its centre in the various magnetic positions specified in the experiments , very trifling deviations due to rotation were produced , and those probably arose from errors in the adjustments themselves .
The following effects were also noticed in the course of these experiments , viz. ( ist .
) In the different adjustments of the plate , it was found in general that the amount of the deviation from zero , due to rotation in the same direction , when the several points on the plate coincided with the fixed mark , was greater or less , according as the plate had been adjusted on the pin in the successive observations , with the several points coinciding with the fixed mark in the order o , 60 , 120 , 180 , 240 , 300 , or in the order of succession 300 , 240 , 180 , 120 , 60 , o ; although the whole amount of deviation due to rotation in opposite directions , was not sensibly affected by this circumstance .
This effect is fully pointed out in Table I. and its probable cause suggested .
( 2nd .
) One slow revolution of the plate produced as much deviation as three or more turns ; quick revolutions were always attended with comparative trifling deflections of the needle .
The plate retained the magnetic properties imparted to it by rotation , while remaining on the axis , round which it was made to revolve ; * but on its being placed horizontally on the ground , ( which in this place was nearly in the plane of the magnetic equator ) , the effect was destroyed in the course of 10 or 15 minutes ; implying that time is requisite for the complete developement of magnetism in the plate , as well as for the displacement of it , after it has been produced. .
This is inferred from the observations of i^ hour only , during which time the direction of the daily variation needle was noted , and compared with that under the influence of the plate .
( 3rd .
) Oscillating the plate in different arcs , with its plane a tangent to the magnetic sphere , after the manner of the balance wheel of a watch , caused considerable deviations of the needleIn this experiment also , quick vibrations produced the least effect .
In Table I. the observations are given at length , in order to exhibit the peculiar effect , already noticed , arising from the order of succession in which the points o , 60 , 120 , &amp;c. were in the first instance brought to coincide with the fixed mark .
The second column shows this order , and the third column , the zero or reading of the north end of the needle when the plate was placed on the pin previous to rotation .
II .
Table of the mean deviations due to the rotation of the plate , its plane being in the secondary to the equator and meridian , and its centre at the distance of 16,5 inches from the centre of the needle .
^ '5 Mean of readings of Mean deviation of , g g* S " c 2 north end of needle north end of needle ca Position of the a JJ g after plate had redue to rotation of.jS\#171 ; S -|\#191 ; ^ plate 's centre .
g|\#171 ; sj volred , its upper plate , its upper edge.g SS2 *jj Remarki ~a* edge from from\#171 ; .*{ ^ggoo -2 .
____________ 2\#171 ; c_\#163 ; l'I S East to West to East to West to |^ " S J\#163 ; Lat Long. $ -5\#171 ; ~ West East .
West East S~ * .
' O/ O ' O/ O/ O ' O ' Oooo 35W io 26 E4 42W11 iE4 jW +15 8 +16J i turn in 1 min. o 180 1 24 E7 39 E5 40W 6 15 E7 4W+13 J9+13I 3 turns , slow .
52$ .
So 69 6W68 51W68 57W o 15 Eo 9E+ o 6+12 1 turn in i min. 52J S 180 69 7E 69 12 E 69 12 Eo5Eo5Eo 0+12 1 turn in 1 min. 52I-N o 71 4E 70 59 E 70 47 Eo 5W o 17W+ o 12+18 2 turns in 2 min. 52^Ni8o 71 15W71 6W71 8W 'o 9Eo7E -fo 2+18 1 turn in 1 min. 90 S1 00 Eo 55W 4 37 Ei 55W 3 37 E5 32+17 3 turns , slow .
90 No 22 E3 19W 46E3 41W 3 44 E7 25 +12 i turn in 1 min. It appears from these observations , that in latitude 52o y North or South , the deviation due to rotation nearly vanished ; but I do not profess to have got the latitude of this point to any great degree of accuracy , the nature of the construction of the instrument used , not admitting of the measure ments from the centre of the plate , to that of the needle , being taken sufficiently near for that purpose ; but I think it is obtained within the limits of a degree .
Foster , at Port Bowen , in 1825 .
Having a considerable time previous to the sailing of the late North-Western Expedition , in 1824 , discovered that peculiar magnetic effects were produced in iron by rotation , I was desirous of having some of the experiments which I had made , repeated under the very interesting circumstances , as connected with magnetic phenomena , in which that expedition was likely to be placed .
Mr. Foster readily offered to do this ; and I feel happy in having this opportunity of acknowledging my obligations to him for the zealous and careful manner in which he performed the task which he had so kindly undertaken .
The peculiar effects produced on the magnetic needle by the rotation of an iron plate , of which I have given an account in a Paper published in the last volume of the Transactions , are in this latitude ( magnetic ) rather minute ; but I expected that in the high magnetic latitudes likely to be visited by the expedition , these effects being increased in the inverse ratio of the cosine of the dip , they would become very conspicuous ; and that some phenomena which here , from their extreme minuteness , would escape observation , in those latitudes would be easily observable .
The result has fully answered the expectations which I formed : at Port Bowen , where the dip is more than 88 ' , the phenomena were exhibited on so striking a scale , and the interest which they excited was such , that Mr. Foster devoted much more time to their investigation than I could have at all contemplated , knowing hov/ fully his time must be otherwise occupied .
To those who have previously read my Paper on this subject in the Transactions , the general accordance of the results in the foregoing tables , and those which I obtained , must be quite manifest ; as however they exhibit some differences , I shall here briefly point out the agreement between the original experiments and this repetition of them , and likewise those discordances , and at the same time indicate what I consider to be the cause of some of these apparent discrepances .
In all the observations which I made , the deviations of the needle due to the rotation of the plate , depended both in extent and character , not upon the situation of the plate with respect to the axis and equator of the horizontal needle itself , but upon its situation with reference to the axis and equator of an imaginary dipping needle having its centre coinciding with that of the horizontal needle ; and this appears most clearly to have been the case at Port Bo wen .
In every instance the direction of the deviation due to rotation was the same at Port Bowen as I had found it here , the relative positions of the plate and needle , and the direction of rotation being the same in the two cases .
When the plane of the plate was in the secondary to the equator and meridian , I had found that the mean deviation due to rotation in latitude o was + i ' 36 ' and in latitude 9 ' &gt; o ' 45 ' : at Port Bowen the corresponding deviations were + 14o 14 ' and 6 ' 28 ' , which are as nearly in the same ratio as we could expect , considering the irregularities which take place in the individual observations in the latter case .
The situation of the point where the deviation due to rotation vanishes , is somewhat different in the two cases ; Mr. Foster 's observations giving its latitude 52'f and mine 54'^ .
The method by which Mr. Foster was under the necessity of determining the situation of the plate 's centre , as referred to that of the needle , did not , as he states , admit of considerable accuracy , but the errors to which it was liable would scarcely account for the difference in the two cases .
I cannot attribute this difference to errors in estimating the situation of the plate 's centre in my own observations , since this was determined on the graduated limb of the instrument by the index on the arm jon which the plate was carried , and the effect of any error of centering in the compass would be counteracted by the opposite readings .
As , however , the situation of this point is by no means an indifferent question in the theoretical investigation of the phenomena dependant upon rotation , I shall , when I have sufficient leisure , repeat my observations .
When the plane of the plate was a tangent to the sphere , and its centre in the meridian , I had found that the deviation due to rotation vanished when the plate 's centre was at the pole , and was a maximum when in the equator : according to Mr. Foster 's observations it likewise vanishes at the pole , but the maximum takes place at a point intermediate to the equator and south pole in longitude 90o , and to the equator and north pole in longitude 270o .
The situation of the point of maximum deviation at Port Bowenx I have no doubt arose , as I pointed out to Mr. Foster , from this circumstance , that when the centre of the plate is in south latitude in longitude 90 ' , or in north latitude in longitude 470 ' , the directive intensity of the horizontal needle is diminished bythe attraction of the iron plate ; and although this diminution would produce effects scarcely observable here , where the intensity of the horizontal needle is great , and the deviation due to rotation very small , yet when the case is reversed , as in the Port Bowen observations , the effect will be so sensible , that the increase in deviation from this cause will much more than counterbalance the diminution which arises from the centre of the plate being nearer to the pole .
The effects that would be produced under these circumstances will be most evident , by considering how a dipping needle would be affected , and referring its deviations to the horizontal plane , remembering that in all cases an increase of dip caiises an increase in horizontal deviation , and the contrary .
When the centre of the plate is in south latitude longitude 90o , and in north latitude longitude 270o , the attraction of the plate tends to increase the dip , and to diminish it when in south latitude longitude 270'* and north latitude longitude 90o ; so that in the former cases the deviation will be increased from this cause , and in the latter diminished .
This effect was so great that in one instance the zero , or reading of the north end of the needle previous to rotation , corresponding to the point 240 on the plate , was 97 ' W , 36 ' E , after rotation in one direction , and 144o E , after rotation in the other , giving no less than 108o for the deviation due to rotation in opposite directions : corresponding to the point 180 on the plate , these were 86 ' 40 ' E , 42o 10 ' W , and 20o 10 ' W , giving only 22o for the deviation due to rotation .
By referring to Table I. in my Paper , it will be seen that there are indications of the same effect , since in longitude 90o , the deviations in south latitude are greater than the corresponding ones in north latitude , and the reverse takes place in longitude 270o ; but as the differences are very small , I , at the time of making the observations , rather attributed them to errors in the adjustment , than to any other cause .
When the centre of the plate was in the secondary to the equator and meridian , and its plane a tangent to the sphere , I had found the deviation due to rotation so small , that it might be considered to vanish : at Port Bowen , however , the absolute deviation was so great , that in some parts of this circle the deviation due to rotation became sensible ; and it would appear that the locus of the points where this deviation vanishes is a line of double curvature , passing from the south pole on each side , a little north of the secondary , down to its intersection with the equator , and then a little south of the secondary to the north pole .
The signs which I have prefixed to the deviations in Table IV .
of Mr. Foster 's observations , indicate the course of this curve .
The whole of the results in Mr. Foster 's observations perfectly agree with the law which I have given in my Paper as embracing all the phenomena dependant upon rotation , and even the differences which I have noticed between my own observations and these , are precisely such as we should expect , according to this law , to be observable in a change of the complement of the dip from 200 to 20 .
The results obtained by the repetition of my experiments at Port Bowen , prove that the phenomena depending on rotation are by no means unimportant as connected with the practical problem of correcting the attraction of a ship on the compass by means of an iron plate .
Having observed the effects that were produced on the needle by the rotation of an iron plate previous to the sailing of the Leven and Barracouta , in the spring of 1822 , these vessels being furnished with correcting plates , I communicated the discovery to Mr. Barlow , and stated that probably the correction might be sensibly affected by it , unless rotation , in applying the plate , were prevented , by having the pin so formed that the plate could only be slid on .
The preceding observations prove clearly the importance of attending to this , especially in high magnetic latitudes , should circumstances require the removal and replacing of the plate , since there can be no doubt , from the magnitude of the deviations arising from rotation , observed by Mr. Foster , that if in replacing the plate , it were made to revolve , although it might be in precisely the same situation as before , its magnetism would be so materially changed , that the attraction of the ship would no longer be corrected by it .
Should such a circumstance take place , it may be proper to mention that the plate would be restored nearly to its original state , by allowing it to remain for some time with its plane in that of the magnetic equator .
S. H. CHRISTIE .
Koyai Military Academy , 10th January , 1826 .

