550 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
On Knee-jerk and the [ Feb. 9 , DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 14 .
Diagram to show the connexions of\#151 ; ( a. ) The spinal nerves with the ganglia of the sympathetic chain .
( b. ) The grey rami of the ganglia with the skin .
The diagram also shows the distribution of the sensory fibres of the spinal nerves with the skin of the mid-dorsal line ; leaving out of account any overlapping of the areas that may occur .
The meaning of the several parts of the diagram is , for the most part , explained by the lettering .
In addition it must be noted that\#151 ; 1 .
The broken lines indicate that the connexion shown by the line has been determined by experiments on some other than pilo-motor fibres , e.g. , by pupilio-dilator or by sweat-nerve fibres .
2 .
The connexion of the several spinal nerves with the sympathetic ganglia is not in all cases as it is represented in the diagram .
There are individual variations .
3 .
Any one spinal nerve is connected with certain of its ganglia by a considerable number of fibres , and with others by very few .
It is connected by few fibres with either the uppermost or the lowermost , or with both uppermost and lowermost , of its series of ganglia .
Thus the 7th thoracic nerve sends comparatively few fibres to the superior cervical ganglion , and the 3rd lumbar nerve sends comparatively few fibres to the 5th lumbar sympathetic ganglion .
4 .
The distribution of the several grey rami to the skin also varies ; the extent of this variation has been described in the text .
In the scheme given here , the case is taken when the 7th and 8th thoracic and the 6th lumbar nerves do not run to the mid-line of the back .
5 .
The dotted line stretching from the upper end of the skin area of the grey ramus of the 1st coccygeal ganglion indicates that the area of the 3rd sacral grey ramus is usually supplied by fibres from the coccygeal ganglion .
It will be noticed that only the base and tip of the tail are represented .
II .
" Note on the Knee-jerk and the Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Professor M. FOSTER , Sec. R.S. Received February 1 , 1893 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , St. Thomas 's Hospital .
) The muscular reaction known as the knee-jerk is notoriously affected by conditions obtaining in what is often described as a reflex arc , consisting of afferent and efferent paths , and a centre situate in the lumbar portion of the spinal cord .
I recently* described experiments determining more particularly than hitherto the locality of the muscular and nervous mechanism on which the jerk depends .
I showed that the muscular portion of this mechanism consists mainly * ' Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 13 , p. 666 .
Vlll Sehorlemmer at once saw the importance of the question , and not only seized upon the correct method of solution , hut carried it out successfully .
If , said he , the radical methyl , CH3\#151 ; CH3 , is identical with ethyl hydride , C2H5H , not only must they have the same properties , hut must yield the same product on treatment with chlorine .
This identity he proved , experimentally , not only in the above , the most simple instances , hut also in the more complicated cases of ethyl-amyl and di-amyl , C2H5\#151 ; C5HU and C5HU\#151 ; CsHn , these hydrocarbons being shown to yield , respectively , chloride of heptyl and chloride of decatyl , C7H15CI and Ci0H21C1 .
It is difficult to overestimate the importance of this discovery , for it proved the nonexistence of two sets of isomeric hydrocarbons of the paraffin series , and , therefore , placed the theory of carbon combination on a firm basis .
This , though the most important of Schorlemmer 's researches , is only one amongst many , a list of thirty-two separate papers being found in the Royal Society 's Catalogue .
In 1871 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society , and in 1874 his position in the scientific world was acknowledged by the creation by the Council of Owens College of a distinct Chair of Organic Chemistry , the only one at present in England , of which he was the first occupant .
It was , however , not only as an expert experimentalist that Schorlemmer excelled .
He possessed an exhaustive knowledge , uncommon even amongst professional chemists , of the extensive literature , not only of the chemical science of his day , but also of that from the earliest times .
His acquaintance with other subjects was also considerable ; thus , if he had not been a distinguished chemist , he would have been an equally remarkable botanist .
Moreover , he possessed , in full measure , that dogged power of work which distinguishes the German , and which has placed that people in the front as a nation of investigators .
He became joint author with Professor Roscoe in the ' Treatise of Chemistry , ' and in the organic portion of that work especially , he has shown both a perfect knowledge of the science , and remarkable literary power .
Only those who have attempted to write , even a moderately complete treatise on modern organic chemistry , can know what serious labour such work entails .
Several distinguished chemists have given up the task as hopeless , and have not completed what they had begun .
If Schorlemmer 's life had been spared , nothing would have prevented him from bringing his work to a satisfactory conclusion .
As a laboratory teacher Schorlemmer was excelled by few , merely as a lecturer by many .
But , although , like some eminent lecturers , his diction may have been faulty , the staple article was there , and no real student who passed through his hands can be named who does not express his admiration for the man , and the sense of obligation 1833 .
] Correlation of Action of .
557 of the vastus internusand part of the divisions of the great quadriceps extensor muscle of the thigh .
The spinal centre was found located in the 5th and 4th lumbar segments of the cord of the Rhesus Monkey ( 4th and 3rd lumbar of Man ) .
The efferent path was found in the anterior roots of the 5th and 4th lumbar nerves , and was traceable along the anterior crural nerve into those of the muscular branches of that trunk which supply the above-mentioned portions of the quadriceps extensor max .
The efferent side of the path corresponds accurately with the course of the motor nerve fibres to the muscles in question , and there is little reason to doubt that it consists of nothing more or less than of those motor fibres themselves .
The afferent path was found to lie in the posterior root of the 5th lumbar of Rhesus ( 4th of Man , bth of Cat ) , and was not usually demonstrable at all in the posterior root of the 4th lumbar , but a small portion of it may , perhaps , lie within that root .
The posterior root in which exists the afferent path on which the jerk is dependent receives afferent fibres from the obturator and anterior crural nerves , and from the external and internal popliteal nerves , and sometimes from the division of the great sciatic which may be called the hamstring nerve , because distributed to the hamstring muscles .
Of the fibres entering the root from these various sources , those on which the " jerk " depends are not from anj except the anterior crural nerve .
Further , in the anterior crural nerve , they are those fibres of the nerve which issue from the vastus internus and crureus muscles .
Thus the afferent fibres on which the jerk depends seem to arise within muscles , and from exactly those muscles , to which belong the efferent fibres with which the " jerk is concerned .
The rapid abolition of the jerk produced by severing the posterior root of the 5th lumbar of Rhesus may conceivably be due less to mere interruption of an afferent path than to excitation of an afferent path by the " current of injury " set up in the injured fibres ( demarcation current " ) of it .
This doubt has frequently been strengthened in my mind by the fact that section of one half the root often 'suffices to abolish the " jerk , " although the remaining half can , when tested , still be shown able to conduct centripetal impulses from the skin ; and further , by the fact that it appears immaterial whether the anterior or the posterior part of the posterior root be selected for the section .
The " jerk I have seen then abolished in a manner not obviously different from that in which section of the whole root abolishes it .
Against such an explanation is , however , the permanence of the effect upon the " jerk " produced by section of the whole root , for the effect continues at least for many days .
Regarding the permanence of the effect of section of half the root I have no observation .
558 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
On Knee-jerk and the [ Feb. 9 I have repeated the observation substituting for severance other modes of destruction of the conductivity of the root .
The root is a fairly long one , longer in the Monkey than in the Cat , and it is not difficult to apply reagents to it .
I find the jerk immediately abolished by cooling the root to near the freezing point .
To do this I pass under the posterior root , well lifted from the anterior , one end of a copper strip , the other end of which lies in an ice and salt mixture .
The application of C02 vapour to the root has a similar effect , and on removing the vapour the " jerk " returns .
The vapour I have applied through a thin-walled india-rubber tube , made to enclose the root .
Cocain I have also applied , and found it abolish the jerk in about 70 secs .
, when used as a 1 per cent , solution in 0-6 per cent , sodium chloride solution .
I place under the root , before applying the cocain , a thin strip of india-rubber sheeting , and apply the solution with a fine camel's-hair brush by painting on the filaments of the root .
There seems , therefore , no doubt that abolition of the jerk can be produced by lowering the conductivity of the fibres of this posterior root .
Whatever the nature of these afferent fibres which thus come up from part of the quadriceps extensor of the thigh , and keep the " knee-jerk " going , facts show that they are less hardy under experimental interference than are those from the skin which carry centripetal impulses subserving tactile sensation .
A very little interference with this posterior root abolishes the knee-jerk ; a very great deal will often not obviously impair cutaneous reflexes elicited through it .
To lift the posterior root by a thread passed under it will often suffice to interrupt the afferent fibres for " the jerk , " but at the same time leaves the afferents of tactile sense not obviously impaired .
Probably the former fibres are much the smaller and more delicate .
The irritation of this root , when cut , by its own demarcation current does not cause inhibition of the jerk .
I have tried on three occasions to recover the " jerk , " after its disappearance on section of this root , by electrical excitation of the central end of the divided root .
The excitation , when too feeble to elicit any reflex contraction of the muscles , did not obviously influence the briskness of the jerk in either direction .
The excitation very readily , however , causes contraction of the hamstring muscles , which so alters the position of the knee that the condition of the " jerk " can no longer be satisfactorily compared with what it was before .
Excitation of the central end of the divided hamstring nerve does at once abolish , or greatly reduce , the briskness of the " jerk .
" I have elsewhere* described a curious fact concerning the " jerk , " namely , that it can be rendered brisk by section of afferent , or of * ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' loc. cit. 1893 .
] Correlation of Action of Antagonistic efferent , spinal roots immediately below that one on which the jerk itself depends .
I added , with regard to it , " Its explanation appears to lie in the abolition of the tone of the hamstring muscles by section of the afferent roots belonging to them .
" I wish now to support , and somewhat enlarge , the explanation then offered .
Severance of the great sciatic trunk produces , as Tschiriew* has pointed out in the Cat , an increased briskness the " jerk .
" This I find to depend scarcely at all , if indeed at all , on section of the external or internal popliteal divisions of the trunk , either singly or together ; but to depend upon the cutting that portion of the trunk which is destined for the hamstring muscles\#151 ; the portion referred to in my previous paper as " the hamstring nerve .
" In Macacus this " hamstring " division of the sciatic sends afferent fibres into the spinal cord by the posterior roots of the 8th , 7th , and 6th sub-thoracic nerves .
In Cat , the 8th and 7th posterior roots are those in question .
On severance of these afferent roots , the " tonus " of the hamstring muscles is broken , and the " jerk " becomes more brisk ; sometimes there is a short interval of depression immediately succeeding the operation .
The motor fibres of the hamstring muscles leave the cord by the anterior roots , correspondent with the above-mentioned posterior .
Severance of these anterior roots causes immediate increase in the briskness of the jerk .
As to the manner in which the loss of tonus of the hamstring muscles gives rise to increase of the knee-jerk , two possibilities at once present themselves .
One is purely mechanical ; the other is of a. physiological nature .
The loss of tension accompanying the loss of " tone " will leave the leg more free to swing at the knee joint .
It is for that reason that the posture of limb usually employed as the most favourable when the jerk is to be elicited is with the hamstrings relaxed and the leg at a right angle with the thigh .
In this way the points of bony attachment of the hamstring muscles are approximated , and the knee can swing through a greater arc to that point at which it is cut short by the mechanical check of the flexor muscles passively tightened by the movement .
The extensor movement during the " jerk " has , in this way , further scope before the hamstrings break it .
As far as this explanation goes , the above-mentioned increase of the jerk would occur even if the hamstring muscles were replaced by india-rubber cords , the effect produced by severance of the hamstring nerve being equivalent to any arrangement which rendered those india-rubber cords less tight .
I should have considered this simple explanation sufficient had it not been for certain additional facts .
During experiments on the effects of stimulating the motor spinal roots of the lumbo-saeral nerves there is much risk of being deceived by escape of the excit-* 1 Arcli .
f. Psycli .
, ' vol. 8 .
560 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
On Knee-jerk and the [ Feb. 9 , ing current to other motor roots besides the one to which the electrodes are applied .
When stimulating the motor root of the 7th lumbar , I frequently observed contraction of the extensor muscles of the knee as well as of the flexors , and imagining that the phenomenon must he due to escape of the exciting current to the 5th lumbar root , I was accustomed to reduce the strength of the exciting current until the contraction of the extensors of the knee no longer occurred .
To avoid this supposed escape of current , it was necessary to reduce the strength of stimulus sometimes to very slightly indeed above minimal efficiency for the motor fibres to which the electrodes were applied .
The use of such weak currents has serious disadvantages , and was extremely embarrassing for the experiment .
It was not until I had discarded a number of experiments on the ground of escape of current , that three points concerning the contraction of the extensor muscles produced by stimulating the motor nerve to the flexors attracted my attention .
( 1 .
) If for the excitation of the motor root to the flexors a series of induced currents are employed , succeeding each other at a rate slow enough to produce not perfect tetanisation , but tremulent contraction of the muscles , the contraction obtained in the extensor muscles coincidently was , nevertheless , perfectly steady and tetanic , although not vigorous .
( 2 .
) If the flexor muscles are severed from connexion with the knee joint , so that their contraction cannot affect the joint , and if the " knee-jerk " be elicited before , during , and after stimulation of the motor root to the flexor muscles , during the excitation , when those flexor muscles were contracting , the knee-jerk , brisk previously and brisk later , disappeared , or almost disappeared .
( 3 .
) If the sensory spinal roots belonging to the hamstring nerve are severed , the stimulation of a motor root to the hamstring muscles is no longer accompanied by contraction of the extensor muscles of the knee , even when strong stimulation is employed .
One next observed the effect on the extensors of the knee of excitation of the central end of the nerve to the hamstring muscles after that nerve had been ligated and cut through .
It was found that excitation with currents just perceptible at the tip of the tongue causes immediate disappearance or diminution of the u knee-jerk .
" " Exaltation " of the jerk follows the depression by the excitation .
If the excitation be continuously maintained for a time , the jerk tends to return in spite of the continuance of the stimulation .
By use of stronger currents the extensors are immediately thrown into a tonic contraction , lasting so long as the stimulus is continued .
The same effects on the knee-jerk , and on the activity of the extensor muscles , are elicited by exciting the central ends of the divided posterior roots of the 7th or 8th subthoracic nerve .
1893 .
] Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
X'^k\Sc U.c. External cutaneous nerve trunk .
A.c. Anterior crural nerve trunk , with c , cutaneous , and muscular , branches .
Ob .
Obturator nerve-trunk .
Sc. Sciatic nerve trunk , with I.P. , internal popliteal , 2\#163 ; .P.\gt ; external popliteal , divisions , and the division going to the hamstring muscles , which gives a cutaneous branch cf. Va. Cr .
The vasti and the crureus muscles , the internal portion being especially referred to .
I then attempted to determine if mere tension of the hamstring muscles could give the same result as electrical excitation of the central ends of their nerves .
It is , of course , essential that the production of increased tension in the muscles should not alter the 562 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
On Knee-jerk and the [ Feb. 9 , position of the knee joint or affect it mechanically .
This precaution was observed by isolating the two inner hamstrings from their attachments , except at their origin , from the tuber and simul- taneously cutting through all nerve branches to the outer hamstrings and to the adductor muscles .
The nerves to the inner hamstrings were carefully preserved although the muscles were otherwise dissected out .
It was found that by pulling on the inner hamstring muscles sufficiently to stretch them out of the doubled-up shape they assumed after being freed from their lower attachments , the knee-jerk , previously brisk , was at once abolished or greatly , and on relaxing the strain on the hamstring muscles at once reappeared , and was apparently somewhat more brisk than before the diminution .
It is often sufficient to merely compress the hamstring muscles , as they lie flaccid on the hand , between fingers and thumb .
A kneading of the muscle as in massage has the same effect .
On two occasions , at the end of an experiment , when the muscles had suffered from exposure , I have seen the curious phenomenon that excitation of a motor root supplying them of strength insufficient to throw the injured muscles into obvious contraction yet suffices to at once cut out the " knee-jerk , " although before and after the excitation the " jerk " was very brisk indeed .
The effect was obtained several times in succession , and immediately disappeared on dividing the sensory roots coming in from the exposed muscles .
The current of injury in the muscles must have been considerable , and this suggests that the mere negative variation of the current of injury in the muscles might originate centripetal impulses .
Certainly there was on neither occasion any obvious contraction in the muscles .
The most efficient mode of excitation of the afferent fibres from these muscles appears to be the mechanical above described , i.e. , the myotatic ( Gowers).* Excitation of the central end of the divided popliteal or peroneal nerves does not produce this effect upon the jerk .
Neither does stretching of the crural triceps by pulling on the tendo Achillis , nor stretching of the rectus femoris muscle .
Stretching of the rectus femoris can easily be employed without interference to the movement of the knee joint .
It appears to me neither to increase nor to diminish the jerk .
Excitation of the central end of the divided nerve to the rectus femoris exerts likewise no obvious influence on the jerk ; nor does excitation of the central end of the cutaneous divisions of the anterior crural , viz. , the internal saphenous and the internal and middle cutaneous nerves of the thigh .
Excitation of the central * ' Diagnosis of Diseases of the Spinal Cord , ' 2nd edit .
, 1881 , p. 29 .
See also the same author 's " Diseases of the Spinal Cord , ' vol. i , p. 21 ; also pp. 202\#151 ; 205 , 428 , 429 , 2nd edit .
, 1892 .
1893 .
] Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
end of the cutaneous branch of the hamstring nerve itself also appears without effect upon the jerk .
Tension produced in the crural triceps muscle bj pulling on the Achilles tendon does not appear to influence the brisk flexor movement of the ankle joint evoked by tapping the subcutaneous face of the tibia , and related chiefly to the 6th lumbar spinal segment of Macacus and to the 7th lumbar segment of the Cat. It would thus seem clear that the exaggeration of the knee-jerk produced by severance of the branches given from the great sciatic nerve to the hamstring muscles is not due to the fact that the resulting relaxation of those muscles simply leaves the joint mechanically more free to move .
The exaggeration would seem due rather to the severance of the nerves in question interxmpting a stream of centripetal impulses that passes up from the hamstring muscles and enters the spinal cord by certain afferent roots , and in the cord exerts a depressing or restraining influence on the jerk .
It further appears that a stream of impulses similarly efficient can be set up by moderate electrical excitation of the central ends of the divided nerves of the hamstring muscles ; or by simply stretching or kneading those muscles when they are released from one of their fixed points ; or , finally , by simply throwing those muscles into contraction through excitation of motor roots supplying them , so long as the sensory roots remain intact .
The physician , when he , in order the better to elicit the jerk , flexes the knee and reduces the strain in the flexor muscles , by doing so removes , with relaxation of the flexors , a physiological depression which the tension of those muscles normally exerts upon the jerk obtainable from their antagonistic group .
Further , it would seem that at the knee joint excitation of the afferent fibres coming from one set of the antagonistic muscles induces reflex tonic contraction of the opposing set with extreme facility , despite the fact that the opponent muscles are not innervated from the same spinal segments .
The reflex is obtainable with extraordinary facility , even across intervening segments of the cord .
Thus the degree of tension in one muscle of an antagonistic couple intimately affects the degree of " tonus " in its opponent , not only mechanically , but also reflexly , through afferent and efferent channels and the spinal cord .
It is obvious that the correlation of action thus existing between the antagonistic muscular groups of the thigh and knee may be not widely different from that originally pointed out by Hearing and Brener as regulative of the movements of respiration .
One is tempted to institute a comparison also between it and the physiological arrangement studied by Biedermann in the antagonism of the muscles of the forceps of Astacus .
I would , however , reserve further details until I have been able to perform a larger number ot voi. .
ui .
2 p 564 Dr. A. E. Wright .
On the Leucocytes of Peptone [ Feb. 9 , experiments .
Anatomical evidence is at present so scanty regarding afferent nerve fibres from muscle that investigation of their anatomical relation seems absolutely requisite for examining the problem further .
[ Just as the lumbo-sacral region of the cord may be split along the median plane without interference to the jerk of either side , * so the same may be done without hindering the above ascending reflex abolition of the jerk .
Extinction of the jerk by exciting the central end of the 8th root ( from hamstrings ) affects the jerk four segments higher without in that distance spreading over to the opposite side .
But the excitation affects the jerk of the opposite side if the scope of a considerable length of cord be allowed it .
If in the Cat the cord be transversely divided at the 11th thoracic segment , excitation of the afferent fibres from a hamstring muscle of one side ( right ) applies chiefly to the jerk on the same side ( right ) , but also to the jerk on the opposite .
If , however , in the Cat ( in which jerk belongs to the 6th and 5th lumbar segments ) the cord be transversely cut at or below the 3rd , the extinction from the hamstring nerve is confined to the same side only .
In other words , the presence of additional higher segments seems requisite before the passage of the impulses in question across the median plane of the cord , a fact in curious harmony with an observation by Hallstenf regarding the elicitation of " crossed reflexes " in the frog .
The median posterior column between the 8th and 4th lumbar levels can be removed in toto without impairing the influence of the hamstring nerve on the jerk .
It is clear also that those fibres of the posterior root which pass to Clarke 's column cannot be the requisite afferents , either from the extensor or flexor thigh muscles , because the jerk and the above-described extinction of it are unaffected in the Cat by transverse section of the cord just below the 4th lumbar segment , i.e. , the segment where Clarke 's column stops short.\#151 ; February 8 , 1893 .
] III .
" On the Leucocytes of Peptone and other Varieties of Liquid Extra vascular Blood .
" By A. E. Wright , M.D. , Professor of Pathology , Army Medical School , Netley .
Communicated by A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. Received January 30 , 1893 .
In the course of some investigations on the subject of blood-coagulation , I was led to enumerate the white blood corpuscles in the different varieties of extravascular blood .
I propose to report the * Sherrington , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 13 , p. 666 .
f ' Archiv f. Physiol. , ' 1885 .

