VI .
On the anomaly in the variation of the magnetic needle as observed on ship-board .
By William Scoresby , jun .
Esq. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G. C. B. P. R. S. Read February 4 , 1819 .
TH E anomalies discovered in magnetical observations conducted on ship-board , were usually attributed to the imperfection of the azimuth compass , until Captain FLINDERS , in his modest and enlightened paper on this subject , published in the Philosophical Transactions , suggested that they were probably owing to the concentration of the magnetic influence of the iron , made use of in the construction of the ship .
The truth of this suggestion , and the accuracy of his observations , have since met with full confirmation , and his practical rules founded thereon have received additional support , from the " Essay " of Mr. BAIN " on the variation of the Compass , " published last year .
As I have been materially anticipated by Mr. BAIN , in a series of observations on the variation of the compass , * which X The azimuths contained in the following table were taken , either by the needle of a theodolite , or by a compass fitted up at sea , for the purpose , with a card made extremely light , and a bar fastened edgewise to it , by two brass screws , a a , as in the annexed sketch .
The compass being small , the card light , and the needle very powerful , owing to the thickness of its ends , it performed considerably better than an expensive azimuth compass of larger dimensions , which indeed was so sluggish and erroneous in its indications , that I could make no good use of it .
G2 ' 'II IIBi I conducted on the coast of Spitzbergen , in the years 181 , and 1817 , it will be unnecessary here to enter into the detail of these observations or enlarge upon the probable cause of the anomalies observed ; it may be sufficient to give a table of the most accurate of my observations , and annex to it the few general inferences which were drawn from it , during the voyage in which most of the bservations were made , together with such remarks on each inference as seemed to me calculated for its elucidation .
I shall , however , just premise , that I am not unconscious of the great liability to error in observations of this kind , and of the variety of causs ( arising out of the unequal distribution of iron in different ships , whereby numerous local attractions are formed ) which coltribute to the multiplication of those errors : it is , therefore , with the greatest deference that I submit these deductions , particularly as I conceive it will require observations to be made under a vast variety of circumstances , and in many different vessels , before correct and satisfactory conclusions can be drawn .
It is only then as a step towards facilitating such general conclusions , the importance of which to our maritime concerns is so obvious , that I presume to offer these observations and remarks .
Table of Magnetical Observations , made on board of the shzp Esk , in v'oyages to the Greenland or Spitzbergen Whale Fishery ; with a view to investigate the laws by which the anomalies , or errors , discovered in the indications of the Mariner 's Compass on ship-board , are regulated .
I J~ Sun 's Azimuth .
Variation .
Errors produced in the observed variation by ' , ~~~~Su ' Aiuh Vrain the attraction of the ship on compass needle .
, ~~~~~~~~ [ Ch. ChronoErs , Differences pro- , Differences proShip 's head ~~~~~No .
Date .
Latitude .
Longitude , meter.]:A~Enrrors attributduced by a duced by a by binnacle Situation of the compass by which the Latitude .
Longttude .
meter .
] , Apaet No Date .
LL de..ppan ed to teposTrchange in posichage in the deompass .
Sun 's azimuth was observed .
[ Col. vi .
] L4. .
APpaObserved .
True .
'or Supposed tionof the ship 's thipih rent.]~~ tion of theship s positon of the : rn ] observed .
, true , head .
[ Diff. of head .
[ From compass .
[ From ; ~ : : ~^~~~~~~col .
v.m. &amp; ix .
] col vri .
] col .
vim .
] 733 35 W.AP.u 38 II 20 12 34 45 W. Cb .
734 i~ ~~73 XI .
XILl .
310 '7 ' 15 ' 26 06 30 3o 13 91 1 24 } 851 3 24 25 6 } 0 ' 0{{ -i 1 45 -{ 28 30 { 26 15 1n 45 { 12 1i5 28 30 { XIII .
S. by E. S. by E. S. by E. W. iS .
} East .
East .
w. is.t E. S. E. I S. E. by S. N. NO .
| E. NNE .
NNE .
South .
South .
South .
South .
South .
South 00 Starboard side of the main deck .
Larboard ditto .
Centre of main hatches .
On the binnacle amidships of the quarter-deck , ioft .
from taffrail .
Compass on a stand on the middle of the quarter-deck , 6 feet abaft capstern spindle .
Starboard side of the main-deck .
Larboard side of the main-deck .
On the binnacle , io ft. from taffrail .
Ditto .
Ditto .
Starboard side of the main-deck .
Larboard ditto .
Starboard side of the main-deck .
Larboard ditto .
Centre of main-hatches .
Centre of fore-hatches .
Larboard side fore-castle near the wintdlass end .
Starboard ditto .
" a. It , ir~ IV .
2 ? ?
15 ' E. II .
1815 .
June 30 1817 .
June 6 V. Ap. Noon .
III .
77 ?
i9'N .
77 0 i ' N. 77 56 0 15 W. P.M. Cb .
6h54 ' 7 28 7 28 6 54 732 June I. I23456789 10 11 II 12 13 '+ is i6 17 x8 920 20 '9 77 36 X. 146 ol 17 o0 0 } 430 3 45 i 13 0 13 200 Is 5 3 ?
' !
O0 } 2 01 !
4 49 13 411 13 6 VI .
S. 7 W. " 38 -21 N. 36 W. 3i 354 45 271 33 3I S. 25 W. 27 N. 46 W. i66j 60 33 46 53 41 470 70 VII .
South .
South .
South .
N.730 W ' .
' 64 3 ?
0 6430 73 o 63 30 63 i5 S5 3o E. 10 0 S. o 45 WN.68 II W. 67 It 7954 79 9 80 24 77 9 77 24 77 54 28 76 July 16 76 vil .
7*W .
38 21 37 28.45 19,30 45.30 30.30 32.15 30-3o 37 .
0 34 .
o0 22.1 !
50.41 19.54+ 46 .
9 34.24 24 .
9 36.24 7-54 24 6 IX .
zIl W. 21 21 32,30 3230 32.30 32.30 32.30 32.30 36 .
o 36 .
o 36 .
o 37 .
o 37 .
o 330 33 .
o 33 .
o 33 .
0 33o 33 .
oo 3oW .
738 Cb .
6 33 636 631 6 44 643 641 I ?
'0fIII i From these observations , and from the assistance afforded by the lucid remarks of Captain FLINDERS , the inferences which follow are deduced .
1 .
In the construction of every ship , a large quantity of iron being used , the portions thereof which have a perpendicular position , such as standard and hanging knees , the nails and bolts in the deck , the capstern spindle , flukes of the anchors(when at sea ) , chain-plates , iron stanchions and riders ; the eye bolts , transom bolts , joint bolts , &amp;c. of gun carriages , and possibly the upper surfaces of the guns themselves , &amp;c. &amp;c. have a tendency to become magnetical , the upper ends being south poles and the lower north poles , in this hemisphere , where the north end of the needle dips , but the contrary in the southern hemisphere , where the south end of the needle dips .
2 .
The combined influence of the iron distributed through all parts of the ship , seems to be concentred into a kind of magnetic focus of attraction , the principal south pole of which being upward in the northern hemisphere , is probably situated , ,in general , near the middle of the upper deck , but nearer to the stem than the stern .
Wrought iron having a much greater attraction for the magnetic needle than cast iron , the anchors , which usually lie about the bows , possess much more influence than guns ; hence , the focus of attraction lies nearer to the bows than to the stern .
3 .
This focus of attraction so influences the compass needle , that it is subject to an anomaly , or variation from the true meridian , different from what is observed by a compass on shore ; the north point of the compass being constantly drawn towards the focus of attraction , which appears to be a 99 south pole in north dip ; and the south point being attracted in south dip , where the focus of attraction probably becomes a north pole .
The phenomenon of a ship appearing to lie nearer the wind when beating to the northward , with the wind at north , than when beating to the southward , with a southerly wind , was observed by my father at least 20 years ago , which phenomenon he attributed to the " attraction of the ship upon the compass ; " and ever since the year i805 , I have been in the habit of allowing only 2 to -L points variation on the passage outward to Greenland , with a northerly or northeasterly course , but generally $ points variation on the homeward passage when the course steered was S. W. or S. W. b. W. Without this difference of allowance , a Greenland ship outward bound will be generally found to be to the eastward of the reckoing , and homeward bound will be even 4 or 5 degrees to the eastward of it .
4 .
This anomaly in the variation of the compass , occasioned by the attraction of the iron in the ship , is liable to change with every alteration in the dip of the needle , in the position of the compass , or in the direction of the ship 's head .
If the intensity of the terrestrial magnetism be not equal in all parts of the globe , then the anomaly in the variation of the compass will be also liable to change with every alteration in the magnetic influence of the earth .
This is a point of such importance , I conceive , in the science of magnetism , that I was very anxious to procure a dipping needle on my last voyage to Greenland , to ascertain whether the magnetism of the earth , by which the dipping needle is influenced , be not greater near the magnetic pole , than it is in EnglandIf it be equal , the oscillations of the same dipping needle woould be performed , circumstances as to temperature and local attraction " being the same , in equal spaces of time in both places ; but if the magnetic power in either place be greater , the oscillations of the needle would there be quicker .
The number of vibrations of a horizontal needle , performed in a certain space of time in Greenland , is to the number per .
formed in an equal space of time in England as 5 to 6 , each longer vibration in England being performed in 5 seconds , and in Greenland in 6 .
No alteration was observed in the time required for each vibration , whether the temperature was high or low , but I think in a low temperature the vibrations performed by the needle before it stopped were fewer .
g. The anomaly of variation bears a certait proportion to the dip of the needle , being greatest where the dip is greatest , diminishing as the dip decreases , and disappearing altogether on the magnetic equator .
Captain FLINDERS ascertained , that the medium error or anomaly for 8 points deviation of the Investigator 's head , on either side of the magnetic meridian , was very nearly of the dip,.05 the decimal expression of which , he considered to be the common multiplier to the dip , for obtaining the radius of error at any situation in the southern hemisphere ; and.o53 to be the common multiplier , from England to the magnetic equator .
This , however , can only be correct within certain limits , as on the magnetic pole , where the anomaly would probably be equal to the dip , or go ?
, the decimal multiplier would require to be increased to 1.o .
Hence it has been suggested , by an officer on board one of the vessels now in search of a north-west passage , that in those parts of the globe where the dip is 9o ?
, the compass needle would probably always stand N. and S. , by the attraction of the ship .
This position clearly follows from the inference above , provided the compass be placed near the ship 's stern in midships ; but if placed as described in inference No. 8 , the ship 's head by the compass on the starboard side of the main deck , would always appear to be east , and on the larboard side west .
6 .
A compass placed near the stern , amidships of the quarter-deck , is subject to the greatest anomaly or deflection from the magnetical meridian , when the ship 's course is about west or east ; because the focus of attraction then operates at right angles to the position of the compass needle ; but the anomaly disappears when the course is about north or south , because the focus of attraction is then in a line with , or parallel to , the compass needle , and consequently has no power to deflect it from its direct position .
[ See Observations , No. 4 , o1 , ii , and 12 of the prefixed table .
This situation for the binnacle is deemed one of the best in the ship , and is very properly preferred .
Being abaft the focus of attraction , the north point of the compass , in this magnetic hemisphere , is always attracted forward , and the errors at equal distances from the magnetic meridian , in the same dip , are alike in quantity both on easterly and westerly courses , and always towards the north ; the correction , when applied to the apparent course , must therefore be towards the south , to give the true course steered .
Thus in high northern latitudes , where the anomaly is great , ( say 0o ?
, or o1 degrees on each side of the magnetic meridian ) a ship steering west by the compass oo leagues , and then east loo leagues , instead of coming to the , place from whence she started , will be 104 miles to the southward of it .
70 The greatest anomaly with the compass in the position 10 , last described , being ascertained by observation , the error on every other point of the compass may be easily calculated ; the anomalies produced by the attraction of the iron in the ship , being found to be proportionate to the sines of the angles between the ship 's head and the magnetic meridian .
Captain FLINDERS 's rule is-As the sine of eight points ( or radius ) is to the sine of the angle between the ship 's head and the magnetic meridian ( or sine of the course reckoned from south or north ) so is the anomaly found at east or west by observation , to the anomaly on the course steered ; or , the anomaly on any other course being found by observation , the error on that position of the ship 's head ' " would be to the error at east or west , at the same dip , as the sine of the angle between the ship 's head and the magnetic meridian , to the sine of eight points , or radius .
" 8 .
A compass placed on either side of the ship 's deck , directly opposite to , or abreast of , the focus of attraction , gives a correct indication on an east or west course , but is subject to the greatest anomaly when the ship 's head is north or south ; and being here nearer the focus of attraction , the anomaly is much greater than that observed on an east or west course with the compass placed in the binnacle near the ship 's stern .
This inference is founded on observations , No. i , 2,3 , 8 , 9 , 1i , 14 , i5 , 16 , and 17 , of the prefixed table .
The latter part of the inference , namely , that the greatest anomaly occurs here when the ship 's head is north or south , is fully and uniformly established ; but the former part rests only on the authority of observations No. 8 and 9 , though it derived o ?
5 additional support from several observations which I have excluded , because neither the sun , nor any other distant object , calculated for proving the accuracy of the observations and determining the clear effect of the " local attraction , " was visible .
9 .
A compass placed within six or eight feet of a capstern spindle , or anchor , or other large mass of wrought iron , foregoes , in a great measure , the influence of the focus of attraction , and submits to that of the nearer body of iron .
The effect of this is various , according to the relative position of the compass and the iron .
When the compass is placed directly abaft the body of iron , the influence is similar to , but greater than , that of the focus of attraction on a compass placed near the stern , as described in inference No. 6 .
[ See Table of observations prefixed , No. 6 and 7 .
] When placed directly before it , the anomaly is similar in quantity , but has its sign reversed ; and when placed on either side of the mass of iron , the influence corresponds more nearly with that of the focus of attraction on a compass placed in the sides of the ship opposite to it , as described in inference No. 8 .
A compass placed upon the drum head of the capstern , any where out of the centre , will have its north point so forc !
bly attracted by the upper end or south pole of the spindle , that the ship 's head may be made to appear to be directed to any point whatever , at the pleasure of the experimenter .
I have sometimes excited the astonishment of my officers by taking the binnacle compass and so placing it on the capstern head , that the ship has appeared to be steering a course directly contrary to that intended .
1o .
When the iron in a ship is pretty equally distributed 104 throughout both sides , so that the focus of attraction occurs in midships , a compass placed on the midship line of the deck ( drawn longitudinally ) will be free from any anomaly from one end of the ship to the other , when the course is north or south ; but on every other course an anomaly will generally appear , increasing as the angle between the ship 's head and the magnetic meridian increases , until the error is at a maximum , when the course is east or west .
The unequal distribution of iron in the ship , on board of which I made all my experiments , prevented the above effect from being realized .
A blacksmith 's shop was situated between decks , on the larboard side of the fore hatchway .
It was lined with sheet iron , and besides the armourer 's forge , vice , &amp;c. contained a large quantity of other iron .
The effect of this , together with the anchors , windlass necks , and other iron , was very remarkable on a compass placed in different parts of the deck near the foremast .
CSee Observations , 18 , 19 , and 2o of the prefixed table .
J lI .
As a compass placed on the midship line of the deck is subject to no anomaly fore and aft , in certain ships , on a north or south course [ Inference No. 1o0 , and as a compass in either side of the ship , opposite to the focus of attraction , shows no anomaly on a west or east course [ Inference No. 8 ] , the intersection of the line joining the two situations in opposite sides of the ship with the midship line traced fore and aft , will probably point out a situation directly over the top of the focus of attraction , where no anomaly on any course whatever will appear .
The Esk , in which I made my magnetical observations , had , as above stated , an armourer 's forge near the larboard bow , which with the varying position of large quantities of iron work , composing our whale fishing apparatus , contributed to vary this point where no anomaly is supposed to exist , and prevented me from ascertaining satisfactorily , at any time , its precise situation .
I made indeed but very few observations with this view , and these I find neither establish nor refute the inference .
12 .
The anomaly of variation is probably the greatest in men of war , and in ships which contain large quantities of iron ; but it exists in a very considerable degree also in merchantmen , where iron forms no part of the cargo , especially in high latitudes , where the dip of the needle is great .
WILLIAM SCORESBY , Jun. Whitby , 3d November , x818 .

