486 Sir John Evans .
" Palaeolithic Man in Africa .
" By Sir John Evans , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 15 , \#151 ; Read May 31 , 1900 .
In April , 1896 , just four years ago , I ventured to call the attention of the Society* to some palaeolithic implements found in Somaliland by Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr .
In doing so , I pointed out the absolute identity in form of these implements with those from the valley of the Somme and numerous other pleistocene deposits in North-western Europe and elsewhere ; and I cited others from the high land adjoining the valley of the Nile and from other places in Northern and Southern Africa .
I was at the same time careful to point out that though there could be no doubt as to this identity in form , no fossil mammalian or other remains had been found with these African implements .
I did not , however , hesitate in claiming them as palaeolithic .
Since the publication of my short note , an extensive collection of stone implements formed in Egypt by Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr has been acquired by the Mayer Museum at Liverpool .
I have not had an opportunity of examining the specimens , but a detailed account !
of them , with numerous illustrations , has been published by the Director of the Liverpool Museums , Dr. H. 0 .
Forbes .
The majority of the implements are of Neolithic Age or even of more recent date , and with the account of these I need not here concern myself ; but the author is at considerable pains to dispute my view that the instruments of palaeolithic forms belong to the Palaeolithic Period .
As he says , Mr. Seton-Karr 's statement that he sometimes found spear-heads " on the ground surrounded by a mass of flakes and chips as though the people had dropped their work and fled , " is very suggestive and important .
He adds , however , that " one such occurrence is almost sufficient in itself* I venture to think , to disprove the high antiquity claimed by Sir John Evans for these implements .
" Were it certain that the so-called spear-heads were really of palaeolithic form , and had the flakes and chips been fitted on to them so as to reconstitute the original blocks of flint , as has been done in the case of undoubted palaeolithic specimens by Mr. Spurred and Mr. Worthington Smith , the question would still remain to be discussed as to the condition of the localities in relation to subaerial denudation .
It is , however , hardly necessary to discuss these points , as some recent discoveries made in Algeria will , I venture to think , go a long way towards settling the question .
I propose , therefore , very briefly to state their nature .
About sixty miles to the south-west of the town * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' yoI .
60 , p. 19 .
+ 'Bull .
Lirerp .
Mus. , ' II , Nos. 3 and 4 ( Jan. 20 , 1900 ) ; ' Nature , ' April 19 , .
1900 , p. 597 .
Palaeolithic Man in .
of Oran , and about ten miles to the north of Tlemcen , on the plateau of Remchi , about a mile to the south of the River Isser , lies a sma lake known as Lac Karar .
It occupies a depression m lacustrine limestone of comparatively recent geological date , superimposed on beds of Lower Miocene Age .
The level of the water , which is some 15 ' centigrade warmer than that of the ordinary springs of the district , and appears to be derived from some deep-seated source , seems to be about 600 feet higher than that of the River Isser .
The lake originally filled a much larger part of the depression than it now does , and from its old bed a considerable amount of material has of late years been extracted for the Service des Ponts et Chaussees .
This material consists of sand and gravel rich in iron pyrites , m the midst of which lie , pell-mell , bones of animals and stone implements fashioned by the hand of man .
These have for some years been diligently collected by M. Lotus Gentil , a geologist , and form the subject of a memoir that has just appeared in ' l'Anthropologie '* by my friend M. Marcellin Bottle , of the Gallery de PaHontologie at the Jardin des Plants , Pans .
Some 200 specimens of implements have been submitted to him , of various sizes and all or nearly all of well-known palaeolithic forms , including several with a broad chisel-like end , of which examples have been found in the laterite of Madras and the gravels of Madrid .
They are for the most part formed of an eocene quartzite , though some smaller specimens of the type known as that of " le Moustier " are formed of flint .
The facies of these latter is not so distinctly palaeolithic as that of the former , of which some , through the kindness of M. Marcellin Boule , are exhibited .
The most important part of the discovery is that which relates to the mammalian remains found with the implements .
These are of elephant , rhinoceros , horse , hippopotamus , pig , ox , sheep , and certain eervidse .
I will not detain the Society with the details given m M. Boule 's memoir , but I may call attention to the fact that the elephant is not the African elephant , but one more nearly related to the quaternary or even pliocene elephants of Europe , to which the designation Atlanticus has been given .
Some teeth seem closely allied to those of E. meridionalisand even E. Having legal d to the whole fauna , M. Boule arrives at the conclusion that it is identical with that of the fossiliferous deposits of Algeria , which from their topographical or stratigraphical characteristics have been assigned to the Quaternary or Pleistocene Period .
He also cites othei instances in Algeria , such as Ternifine and a station near Aboukir , in which palaeolithic implements have been found associated with the remains of a similar pleistocene fauna .
Altogether , these recent discoveries in Northern Africa tend immensely * Tome XI , 1900 .
488 Influence of Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Bacteria .
to strengthen my position with regard to the truly palaeolithic character of the implements found in other parts of that vast continent , and I am tempted to bring for comparison some few specimens from South Africa .
One of these , found by Mr. J. C. Rickard at the junction of the Riet and Modder twenty years ago , is almost indistinguishable from those of the Lac Karar , as is also one from the valley of the Embabaan in Swaziland .
But the most remarkable is an implement of typically palaeolithic character found in 1873 under 9 feet of stratified beds at Process-fontein , Victoria West , by Mr. E. J. Dunn.* May the day be not long distant when researches for the implements of palaeolithic man may again be carried on , and trenches be dug in South Africa for peaceful instead of warlike purposes .
" Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Bacteria .
" By Allan Macfadyen , M.D. , and Sydney Rowland , M.A. Communicated by Lord Lister , P.R.S. Received and read May 31 , 1900 .
In a previous communication we have shown that the temperature of liquid air has no appreciable effect upon the vitality of microorganisms , even when they were exposed to this temperature for one week ( about - 190 ' C.).f We have now been able to execute preliminary experiments projected in our last paper as to the effect of a temperature as low as that of liquid hydrogen on bacterial life .
As the approximate temperature of the air may be taken as 300 ' absolute , and liquid air as 80 ' absolute , hydrogen as 21 ' absolute , the ratio of these temperatures roughly is respectively as 15 : 4 : 1 .
In other words , then , the temperature of liquid hydrogen is about one-quarter that of liquid air , just as that of liquid air is about one-quarter of that of the average mean temperature .
In subjecting bacteria , therefore , to the temperature of liquid hydrogen , iv place them under conditions which , in severity of temperature , are as far removed from those of liquid air as are those of liquid air from that of the average summer temperature .
By the kindness of Professor Dewar , the specimens of bacteria were cooled in liquid hydrogen at the Royal Institution .
The following organisms were employed : Bac .
acidi lactici , B. B. diphtherial , Proteus vulgaris , B. anthracis , B. coli communis , Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus , Spirillum cholera } , B. phosphorescens , B. pyocyaneus , a Sarcina , and a yeast .
The above organisms in broth culture were sealed in thin glass tubes * See also a paper by M. E. T. Hamy in the ' Bulletin du Museum d'Histoire-Naturelle , ' 1899 , No. 6 , p. 270 .
t ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' February 1 , 1900 ; ibid. , April 5 , 1900 .

