218 On a New Gyroscopic Phenomenon .
By E. E. Tournay Hjnde.* ( Communicated by Arthur Schuster , Sec. E.S. Eeceived November 9 , 1917 .
) I should like to submit to the Eoyal Society an experimental phenomenon connected with gyration , which I believe to be novel .
The accompanying diagram and description will explain the circumstances under which the phenomenon takes place .
ABCD represents a wooden frame , which must be firmly secured in a vertical position ; fixed in this frame is a 0T5-inch diameter smooth vertical rod E. G is an eye or ring of round metal , having an internal diameter of about 0T65 inch ; to this ring is securely attached a spindle carrying the fly-wheel of a gyroscope F ( a well known type of small toy gyroscope , weighing about 3f oz. , and altered as required , was used ) , the gyroscope and its spindle being thus so arranged that they together can slide freely up and down the rod E , and also freely revolve , horizontally , round the same .
The axis of the ring G is slightly inclined to the axis of the spindle , so that the latter becomes more approximately horizontal when at rest ( see enlarged section ) .
H1 and H2 are fixed sleeves on the rod E , and serve merely as stops , to prevent the gyroscope striking the wooden frame when experimenting , and I is a small loose washer to reduce friction .
In order to observe the phenomenon to which I wish to draw attention , the gyroscope is ( by means of a cord on its hub ) first spun as rapidly as possible , say in the direction marked J ( see elevation ) , and then a slight horizontal motion is imparted to the free end of the spindle at K , in the direction of L ( see plan ) , i.e. , in the reverse direction to the corresponding gravitational precession .
The gyroscope will at first slowly , and then with an accelerated action , continue to revolve round the vertical rod , and at the same time rise bodily up the rod , with a steady spiral and vibratory motion , until it arrives at the upper stop H2 , as shown by dotted lines , where it will continue to revolve until , the momentum of the fly-wheel becoming exhausted , it falls back to its starting point .
The experiment described was the first among a series of many to give such a definite rising action , and subsequently I have found , by making further investigation , that\#151 ; * A communication in the form of a letter , dated March 8 , from Sydney , N.S.W. , reached the Royal Society in the course of the spring .
The present paper contains the essential parts of the letter.\#151 ; A. S. On a New Gyroscopic Phenomenon .
2J9 Diagram of apparatus Scale : ^ size Full-size ^ section of ring G etc. Elevation ( a ) The horizontal rotation of the gyroscope round the vertical rod is not essential to the production of the peculiar rising action described , for , if in place of the vertical round rod E and the ring G ( see diagram ) a fixed Mr. E. E. T. Hind .
square vertical rod and a square eye be substituted , so as to prevent any horizontal rotation , the rising action can still be obtained .
( b ) By varying the intensity of the gyroscope 's vibrations , the rising action may be accelerated or retarded , or , if the vibrations are eliminated as far as practicable , the rising action also ceases .
Note on Mr. Hind s Paper .
By Andrew Gray , F.B.S. The arm shown in Mr. Hinde 's figure revolves round the vertical rod with moderate angular speed / x in the direction opposed to the slower of the two precessions which the gravity couple could produce in an ordinary top .
The precession therefore tends to increase the inclination of the arm to the upward vertical , that is , to tilt the outer end of the arm down .
The ring is therefore tilted so as to bear on the vertical rod with its upper edge on the side remote from the gyroscope , and with its lower edge on the same side as the gyroscope .
The arm is thus locked on the stem as regards tilting .
Apart from the variations to be dealt with presently , it is prevented from further tilting by a couple , and its sliding down is impeded by an upward force due to friction at the contacts with the rod . .
We have now to show how the upward motion is produced .
With the model constructed in my workshop I have been able to confirm Mr. Hinde 's statements on the whole .
I have also been able to try different small gyroscopes on the arm , and have found that if the wheel of the gyroscope is perfectly balanced about the axis of rotation , no climbing takes place .
There seems therefore no doubt that the effect is due to the centrifugal couples which arise from want of exact balance .
The action of these may be assisted also by lateral vibration of the vertical stem and the corresponding vibration of the gyroscope .
As the wheel revolves the plane of the centrifugal couple revolves with it about the arm , while the arm turns , of course comparatively slowly , about the vertical stem .
If the turnings be as in Mr. Hinde 's figure , the side of excess mass of the wheel will be successively on the right , at the top , on the left , and at the bottom , to an observer looking at the arm from the outside beyond the wheel .
The axis of the centrifugal couple is then to be drawn upwards , to the left , downwards , and to the right respectively , for the four positions specified .
We shall call these positions 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 .
Take position 1 .
The couple produces angular momentum ( A.M. ) about the axis of the couple , and hence the arm begins to tilt upwards , so that , relative to the former condition of things , an upward component of the A.M. of the fly-wheel may be brought into existence .
On a New Gyroscopic Phenomenon .
But as the fly-wheel passes on to position 2 , in which the couple axis is towards the left , the arm is accelerated in the precessional motion so as to cause a component of A.M. towards the left to grow up to correspond to the growing couple .
But the couple is to be regarded as the accompaniment of an upward force applied at the centroid of the revolving arm and attached wheel , and the system slides upward a certain distance , while retaining its upward tilted position , in which the locking action of the ring has been relieved .
As the wheel passes on through the next two positions the same actions as before take place , but in the contrary directions .
The downward tilting in position 3 locks the ring , and so there is no sliding down in position 4 .
The oscillatory variations of speed of the azimuthal motion are essential to the action .
On the whole the centre of the wheel is raised in each revolution about the axis of rotation , and this rise takes place in the main when the excess mass of the wheel is rising in the rotational motion .
This produces a slowing of the rotation , and the rotational kinetic energy therefore falls off as the arm rises .
The gain of potential energy of the arm is thus at the expense of the energy of rotation of the wheel .
Mr. Hind states that he has found the continued precessional motion unnecessary , that , in fact , he has been able to cause the arm to rise along a vertical rod of square section , when the continuous precessional motion is prevented by a loosely-fitting square ring .
This I have also verified with my model .
I find it necessary , however , to provide in this case additional locking action by pressing down with my fingers the outer end of the arm .
This locking action might , of course , be furnished by gravity , and probably was in Mr. Hinde 's model .
When the necessary locking action is supplied , the explanation given above holds , with only slight modifications .
The ring fits loosely , and to-and-fro azimuthal motions take place , corresponding to the alternate acceleration and retardation of the continuous azimuthal motion described above .
I may mention that some years ago , Dr. J. G. Gray devised a " climbing gyrostat , " which was one of a series of interesting examples of gyrostatic action invented by him , and made in my workshop in the University of Glasgow .
This gyrostat was hung by two cords passing over pulleys and carrying weights which only partly counterpoised the weight of the gyrostat .
The arrangement was such that when the gyrostat oscillated in azimuth , it slowly ascended with , of course , descent of the smaller counterpoising weight .
It is to be observed that in this device the wheel was balanced , and that , 222 Messrs. H. J. Channon , F. F. Renwick , and B. Y. Storr .
though the play of forces was very similar to that in Mr. Hinde 's experiment , energy was fed in from outside by the agent maintaining the azimuthal oscillations .
Another example of progressive motion obtained by oscillatory motion of the axis of the spin of a gyrostat is Dr. Gray 's " walking gyrostat .
" I have described some of these devices in a work on ' Gyrostatics , ' now in the press .
The Behaviour of Scattering Media in Fully Diffused Light .
By H. J. Channon , F. F. Renwick , and B. Y. Storr .
( Communicated by Dr. T. M. Lowry , F.R.S. Received April 10 , \#151 ; Received in revised form October 10 , 1917 .
) Introduction .
The present paper is the outcome of a discussion which arose between the authors after the publication of a paper by 0 .
Bloch and F. F. Renwick , * which dealt with the subject of the opacity of diffusing media , chiefly from the practical standpoint , and included also lengthy extracts from the Reports of a Committee of the American Society of Illuminating Engineers . !
On finding that we were unable to reconcile the experimental data with the theory included in the above paper , we were gradually led into the attempt to find solutions of some of the problems involved in this complex subject , starting only with the indisputable fact that when light falls upon a finite thickness of a scattering medium , part is rejected , part extinguished , and part transmitted .
In the present communication we have confined ourselves to a study of the action of such media upon light which is assumed to be already completely diffused .
Definitions .
Let MN represent a large sheet of a diffusing medium of uniform thickness and quality , upon which completely diffused light of intensity I0 falls .
Let the intensity of the light returned in directions opposed to I0 be and the intensity of the light which escapes after passage through the sheet * ' Photo .
Journ. , ' vol. 56 , pp. 49-65 .
t ' Trans. Amer .
Soc. 111 .
Eng. , ' vol. 10 , No. 5 , pp. 353-402 ( 1915 ) .
i

