1903 .
] On Central American Earthquakes , etc. 403 picked up and recorded precisely as they are emitted , as has been tested by intercalating a siphon recorder in a much diluted tapping 'circuit at the sending end , so as to get a record with which to make comparison .
The traces obtained at the two ends are identical to a surprising degree .
The mercury level has an adjustment which is easily made .
One precaution is to keep the rim of the wheel clear of dust , which is done by a cork or leather pad pressed lightly against it by a spring .
The instrument is not at all sensitive to tremor , and requires no particular delicacy of adjustment .
The wheel has to be positive , the mercury negative .
A telephone in circuit , through a transformer or otherwise , affords an easy method of discriminating the signals by ear .
The speed of the wheel gives another convenient adjustment to suit various circumstances .
" On Central American Earthquakes , particularly the Earthquake of 1838 .
" By Admiral Sir John Dalkymple Hay , Bart. , G.C.B. , F.R S. Received March 6 , \#151 ; Read March 19 , 1903 .
The very interesting report of Dr. Tempest Anderson and Dr. J. S. Flett on " Recent Volcanic Eruptions in the West Indies , " induces me to suggest that inquiries should be made in Colombia and in Central America as to disturbances in those regions , in order to trace the connection existing between the earthquakes and volcanic eruptions which are there so prevalent , and those in the West Indies .
Doubtless Mr. Welby , who has just returned to his post at Sta .
Fe de Bogota , might be able to obtain thence some information on this matter .
In the British Association Report , of 1858 , upon Earthquakes , those of 1835 and of 1841 are given ; but , unfortunately , no information is given as to the effect of those disturbances from any British source .
The British Association in both cases seem to have been mainly indebted for their information to the Academy , and hence the effects in Martinique and Guadeloupe are quoted , but nothing is reported from our West India Islands .
One of the most terrible disturbances in its effects , that of 1838 , is not even alluded to .
The only record of it is in the work of E. G. Squier , late Charge d'Affaires from the U.S. of America to the Republics of Central America ( 2 vols .
, Appleton , New York , 1852 ) , who was commissioned by his Government to report upon that region in reference to the Nicaraguan Canal .
Vol. 1 has the map ; vol. 2 , pp. 114 , 115 , and p. 162 alludes to the eruptions of Cosequina in 1838 , 404 On Centred American Earthquakes , etc. [ Mar. 6 , and in describing the earthquakes and disturbances and eruptions of 1835 , speaks of their effects in New Granada , Nicaragua , Popayan , Bogota , Sta .
Marta , Caracas , Hayti , Curasao , and Jamaica .
I think it may be of interest to record my personal observations of the earthquakes and eruptions of 1838 as given in the log of H.M.S. " Imogene , " Captain ( afterwards Sir Henry ) Bruce , in which I was then serving .
On Friday , November 16,1838 , noon , Lat. 6 ' 2 ' N. , Long. , 82 ' 9 ' W. Bio Lejo ( to which we were bound from Panama ) bearing N. 38 , W. 490 miles .
At 10 p.m. we felt the shock of an earthquake .
Tuesday , November 20 , 1838 , at 3.5 A.M. , noon of that day , Lat. , 9 ' 17 ' N. , Long. 85 ' 2 ' W. Three heavy shocks in succession .
Calm c. r. The topsails were lowered on the cap , and the ship lay till daylight , uncertain whether she had struck on a wreck or whether she was damaged .
She rolled over to the limit of her capacity on three successive occasions .
At daylight ( 6 A.M. ) all hands were sent for to see an extraordinary spectacle .
The sea was white , as if it had been mixed with marl , and , as far as the eye could reach , the sea was covered with fish of various kinds stunned by the concussion .
The boats picked up a sufficient supply for the ship 's company , principally albacore , bonita , and dolphin .
Some turtle were also captured .
We anchored in Bio Lejo on November 25 , and remained there till November 30 , 1838 .
On the 1st December , we communicated with H.M.S , " Sulphur , " Captain E. Belcher , then surveying the Gulf of Fonseca .
Cosequina was in eruption , but El Viejo was quiescent .
Belcher had ascended El Viejo on February 10 , 1838 , without difficulty , but Cosequina was in active eruption .
No record , so far as I know , has been published of this seismic disturbance ; and although newspapers , received sometime after at Guaymas , reported synchronous disturbances at Tobago and elsewhere , no information except that contained in Mr. Squier 's report is to be found on the subject .
It would seem desirable that the inquiry , so well carried out by Dr. Tempest Anderson and Dr. Flett should be extended into Colombia and Central America .
The disturbance to which I have alluded above is traceable for more than 1500 miles .
The Colonial Office informs me that an earthquake was reported at St. Lucia on January 11 , 1839 , doing much damage .
No information is recorded as to Tobago .

