5 .
" On the Respiration of Insects .
" By George Newport , Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. Although a multitude of facts has been collected relating to the physiology of respiration in insects , attention has seldom been directed to the variations exhibited in this function in the different periods of their existence .
The author gives an account , in this paper , of the anatomical and physiological peculiarities which he has noticed in various insects , in their three states of larva , pupa , and imago .
He traces all the several changes which the trachese and spiracles undergo during their transformations ; describing particularly the successive development of the air vesicles in connexion with the power of flight .
The system of muscles , both of inspiration and of expiration , is minutely detailed , and their various modes of action examined .
He next investigates the series of nerves appropriated to the exerci.se of the respiratory function , and establishes a distinction in the offices of these nerves , corresponding to the sources from which they derive their origin , and presenting remarkable analogies with similar distinctions in the nerves of vertebrate animals .
The manner in which re ?
spiration is performed , and the phenomena presented with regard to this function under various circumstances , such as submersion , and confinement in unrespirable or deleterious gases , are next considered .
An account is then given of a series of experiments made with a view to determine the quantity of oxygen consumed , and of carbonic acid produced , by the respiration of various kinds of insects in different states , from which the conclusion is drawn that the quantity of air deteriorated is governed by several circumstances not necessarily connected with the natural habits of the species .
When the insect is in its pupa state , and in complete hybernation , its respiration is at its minimum of energy : and , on the contrary , it is at its maximum when the insect is in the imago state , and in the condition of greatest ac ?
tivity .
In the concluding section of the paper the author institutes an inquiry into the capabilities which insects possess of supporting life , during longer or shorter periods , when immersed in different media : and gives a tabular view of the results of numerous experiments which he made on this subject .
It appears from these observations that the order in which these media possess the power of extinguishing vitality is the following : viz. hydrogen , water , carbonic acid , nitrous acid gas , chlorine , and cyanogen .
Some of these agents , however , affect respiration much more rapidly than others , which , though their action is slower , are eventually more fatal to the insect .

