1903 .
] On the Sensation of Light 'produced by Rays .
393 shows that the constant term in the curvature is , in general , increased numerically by the correction .
Further , this constant term involves the two elastic constants .
The general conclusions drawn with regard to the beam under a uniform load are in no way affected .
\#171 ; On the Sensation of Light produced by Radium Rays and its Relation to the Visual Purple .
" By W , B. Hakdy , F.R.S. , Caius College , Cambridge , and H. K. Andekson , M.D. , Caius College , Cambridge .
Received September 20 , 1903 .
It is now well known that when a few milligrammes of a salt of radium are brought near the head in the dark a sensation of diffuse light is produced .
We have examined this phenomenon with the object ( 1 ) of determining the place of origin of the sensation ; ( 2 ) of identifying the particular rays which cause it .
The rays from radium falling upon the skin produce no sensation , and we failed in evoking sensations of sound , smell , or taste by their agency .
The only response immediately traceable to them seems to be this one of diffuse luminosity .
It may be described as an appearance of diffuse light of steady intensity disposed in the external space in front of the head and filling that space fairly or quite uniformly .
If the radium , covered of course with some opaque screen such as , for instance , black cardboard , to cut off the pale light which it emits , be held in front of one eye , one notices that the intensity of the glow is considerably reduced by closing the eyelid .
When the eye is open it is possible in a very general way to locate the radium from the fact that the sensation is strongest when the axis of vision is directed to it and diminishes when the head is turned to one side .
The sense of direction arises solely from variations in the intensity of the glow and not from variations in its quality .
When the eye is closed the sense of locality is completely lost .
This is due to the fact , to be dealt with more fully presently , that the glow is due to the ( 3 and y rays , and that the eyelid is peculiarly opaque to the former , stopping apparently the whole of them .
The y rays , on the other hand , having a very great penetrating power , pass almost equally well through the eyelid or through the bones and other tissues forming the orbit .
There is , therefore , no possibility of a differential screening action when once the eyelids are closed and the ( 3 rays stopped , with the result that all sense of the direction of the source of light is lost .
The sensation of light is purely of retinal origin .
It is not due to 394 Mr. W. B. Hardy and Dr. H. K. Anderson .
[ Sept. 20 , a response to the rays on the part of the optic nerve , the optic tract , or the brain itself .
We were led to this conclusion in the following way .
When the crystals of radium bromide are spread out so as to form a layer about 1 mm. deep , covering a circle of about 5 mm. diameter , the glow is very intense when the flat face of the layer is presented to the eye , * and practically vanishes when the layer is turned edgeways .
This must be due to the fact that the volume of the stream of rays is roughly proportional to the surface of the mass of the salt , and that the stream is densest in a plane normal to the surface .
The effect of rapidly rotating the little plate of crystals before the eye is very striking ; it is as though a series of blinding flashes of light were thrown on to the retina .
If now the radium be moved about over the surface of the head , one notices that for the sensation of light to be present the axis of greatest ray density must cut one or other eyeball , and that the further the radium is removed from an eyeball the weaker is the sensation .
This statement can be illustrated by the following case .
When the radium is held with the face of the crystals opposite the middle of the forehead , there is at most , a luminosity so feeble as to be detected with difficulty ; at the same time no other sensations are evoked .
If , however , the plate of crystals be rotated downwards and outwards so as to face towards one eyeball , a strong light is at once seen with that eye .
Experimenting in this way , we convinced ourselves that no sensa-tions are directly produced by the rays reaching the brain substance , !
and that the origin of the sensation of light lies solely in the eyes themselves .
On passing directly from daylight into a dark room one 's eyes are at first almost completely insensitive to the rays , and sensitiveness grows only slowly .
In the evening , after exposure for some hours to yellow artificial light , the sensation of light is felt almost immediately the ordinary sources of light are extinguished .
Radium vision , if we may so call it , will continue to increase for a full hour in the dark\#151 ; in other words , it is a phenomenon of the dark-adapted eye- , Radium vision , therefore , resembles the response to light of low intensity , and as a great many facts go to show that this is connected with the visual purple , we examined the effect of the rays upon that substance .
To our surprise we were unable to detect any * To avoid repetition , it must be understood that the crystals are always covered with opaque paper or cardboard , so as to exclude the actual light rays .
f This statement is of course limited to the stream of rays from 50 milligrammes of radium bromide .
It is possible that a more powerful stream might evoke direct response from the brain .
1903 .
] On the Sensation of Light produced by Radium Rays .
395 bleaching action whatever on the visual purple of the eye of the frog or rabbit .
The method we adopted was to keep the animal in the dark for some hours , to kill it and dissect out the retinae in sodium light , and to expose one retina to the rays from 50 milligrammes of pure radium bromide in a moist dark chamber , while the other retina remained in a similar dark chamber as a control .
The retinae , when removed , were spread on to thin sheets of mica and placed over the radium at about 3 mm. distance , in such a way that either the mica alone was between the radium and the retina , or the mica and a layer of opaque black paper to screen off the light rays .
In a few cases the retina was so placed that nothing more than about 2 mm. of air separated it from the radium .
The time of exposure was , as a rule , 20 hours .
In no case was there any difference in tint between the exposed and the unexposed retinse , while both control and exposed retinse were found to bleach in full daylight in a few seconds .
It will be noticed that in those experiments in which the light rays from the radium were allowed to fall on the retina , no bleaching could be detected .
This does not prove that they were wholly without action since , as Kuhne showed , even the excised retina has a feeble power of reproducing the purple .
The experiments prove merely that the ' a , / 3 , and y rays , either alone or with the light rays , fail to overcome this recuperative power sufficiently to effect a detectable decrease in the quantity of pigment in 20 hours .
When one considers the density and activity of the stream of " invisible " rays at 3 mm. distance from 50 mm. of radium bromide , we may fairly conclude that these rays have no action on the pigment .
This conclusion led us to consider whether the sensation of light which is caused by the invisible rays , is , indeed , due to the direct response of the retina .
When one considers how limited in extent is that portion of the spectrum to which the retina responds , it would be a matter of surprise if so specialised an instrument were found to respond to rays as different from light-waves as are the radium rays .
The evidence we have been able to obtain points to the conclusion that the retina probably does not respond directly to the radium rays , but to light rays , which are given out by the tissues of the eyeball -chiefly the cornea and lens\#151 ; when they are traversed by the ft and y rays .
The fresh lens of a sheep , ox , or rabbit was found to glow strongly when exposed to the rays .
The cornea and vitreous humour also glow , but to a less extent , and the retina itself gives a strong glow .
The sclerotic , on the other hand , glows very slightly .
The glow of the lens alone is so striking as fully to account for the sensation of light produced by the rays .
-396 Mr. W. B. Hardy and Dr. H. K. Anderson .
[ Sept. 20 , This quality of emitting light under the influence of the rays is not at all peculiar to the tissues of the eyeball .
The skin glows , as may readily be seen by bringing the hand near to radium covered by opaque paper .
Bat and muscle glow strongly .
The fact that direct stimulation of the retina contributes at most but little to the sensation of light , comes out clearly when the nature of the rays which cause the sensation and their power of penetrating the .eyeball are examined .
From this investigation the a rays were always .excluded .
They possess so little penetrating power that they are arrested by the thickness of opaque paper which is necessary in order to screen off the light rays .
The ( 3 and y rays , therefore , remain for consideration , and they both contribute to the production of the sensation of light .
The following experiment proves this :\#151 ; Fifty milligrammes of radium bromide , covered with opaque paper , were placed at the bottom of a thick-walled lead tube 6 cm .
in length , on each side of which were the poles of an electric magnet giving a field of more than 5000 lines over nearly the entire length of the lead tube .
The physical effect of this field would be to divert the rays into the lead .
The optical effect was very striking .
When the field was .established while the eye was applied to the .
tube , the glow suddenly diminished to wdiat appeared to be about a-fifth or less of its previous intensity .
The change resembles the sudden turning down of a gas light .
The persistent or residual glow must be that due to the y rays .
The effect of the y rays can be demonstrated by screening off the J3 rays with lead screens .
A plate of lead 2'3 mm. thick was found to reduce the intensity of the glow very much .
Such a plate cuts off the f3 rays .
The further addition of four more such screens , thus increasing the thickness of the lead to 11'5 mm. , scarcely diminishes the remaining glow , for they arrest only a small fraction of the y rays .
In these screen experiments it is , of course , necessary to keep the distance between the radium and the eye constant .
This was effected by a simple apparatus designed for the purpose which does not need description .
The glow is still quite strong when 4 cm .
of lead are interposed between the eye and the radium ( 50 milligrammes ) , but it is faint with more than 5 cm .
Similarly the fluorescence of the excised lens of the eye which is .excited by those rays which traverse lead 2 3 mm. in thickness is not .sensibly diminished by adding two more such screens , thereby increasing the thickness to 6*9 mm. So far as the ( 3 rays are concerned , it is certain that they cause a sensation of light solely by inducing fluorescence of the tissues of the eyeball in front of the retina .
Taking the eyeball of the sheep as corre1903 .
] On the Sensation of Light 'produced by Hadium Mays .
397* sponding in size fairly well with the human eyeball , it was found by measurement with the electroscope that the cornea , lens , and front half of the vitreous humour taken together had the same screening action as 6 '6 mm. of lead .
That is to say , they arrested all the ( i rays and a measurable fraction of the y rays .
Therefore the fS rays do not penetrate to the retina , except perhaps in small quantity to the most anterior portion .
The part played by the y rays is not so obvious .
It is certain that they can excite the excised lens to become luminous , since a lens separated from the radium by a centimetre of lead emits light enough to be visible .
The fluorescence is , however , exceedingly faint , much less for instance than that excited in a piece of glass of about th\amp ; same size .
On the other hand , the sensation of light evoked by those rays which traverse even 4 cm .
of lead is quite considerable , and no-one can fail to be struck with the fact that the fluorescence of an excised lens and the sensation of light produced by the y rays are very dissimilar values .
It is , therefore , possible that the y rays produce the sensation of light in part only when they actually strike the retina .
Here again , however , the response need not be directly to the y rays but to light-waves started in the retina itself , for , as has been already pointed out , the excised retina glows strongly when brought near radium .
The following experiment helps to prove that the y rays produce the-sensation of light in great part when they actually strike the retina .
The radium was covered with 5 mm. of lead to cut off " the / 3 rays , and a vertical plate of lead 40 mm. deep and 2 mm. thick was moved backwards and forwards over the radium so as to form a bar-like-screen 40 mm. thick and 2 mm. wide between it and the eye .
The effect produced was that of a bar of shadow moving across the glow .
Now the y rays are not refrangible , and therefore the vertical lead screen would cast a partial shadow its own breadth upon the lens and retina .
The effect upon the lens would be to diminish its fluorescence , but as the light-waves are given off in all directions from the lens , there would not be a definite shadow on the retina .
Therefore this barlike shadow must be due to the shadow on the retina itself .
Reference was made in passing to the remarkable stopping power of tho eyelid .
The human eyelid seems to be capable of arresting all the / ?
rays .
With the eyelid closed the insertion of a lead screen 9'2 mm. thick makes no* difference in the intensity of the sensation of light .
This , however , is true only when the eyelids are tightly closed .
If they are-stretched by raising the eyebrows , and their thickness thereby reduced , the interposition of the lead screen produces a detectable decrease .
* Many trials with six different individuals resulted in a strong balance of opinion in favour of the screen producing no diminution .
Only one person thought he-could detect a lessening of the glow .
398 Sensation of Light 'produced by Radium Rays .
[ Sept. 20 , Some measurements of the screening power of various tissues were made with a Curie electroscope .
The numbers give the rate of leak in divisions of the scale per second .
The tissues were from a freshly-killed rabbit .
5 milligrammes of radium bromide were used , enclosed in a lead capsule having an aperture 4 mm. in diameter on one side .
Lead , 0'2 mm. thick ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
25'0 " 0-4 " 18-0 " 2-3 " 11-3 Skin of back , 08 mm. thick ... ... ... ... . .
20-5 " ( shaved ) , 0-8 mm. thick ... 22'Q Eyelid , 0*7 mm. thick ... ... ... ... ... ... .
17'2 Nictitating membrane , 0'8 mm. thick ... 28-6 Iris ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
28-6 Lens , 7*5 mm. thick ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
14'0 Sclerotic " | Choroid ?
\#166 ; ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
234 ) Retina J Sclerotic \lt ; 0'5 mm. thick ... ... ... ... ... 36'3 Entire eyeball ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
11 *5 Muscle ( skeletal ) , 34 ) mm. thick ... ... .
19'0 These figures show a remarkable difference in stopping power between the eyelid and the nictitating membrane , in favour of the former , which equals 0*4 mm. of lead .
The screening power of the eyelid is also noticeably greater than that of the skin of the back , although the latter is the thicker .

