]\gt ; Mr. .
Boys .
[ Apr. 19 , April 19 , 1888 .
Admiral Sir G. H. RICHARDS , K.C.B. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordeled for them .
The Right Hon. Lord Sudeley was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " The \ldquo ; By C. BOYS , A.R.S.M. Communicated by Professor A. W. RUCKER , F.R.S. Received March 8 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In the paper I have treated the subject of the radio-micrometer in such a manner as to arrive at the best proportions of the instru- ment .
I have first referred to the fact that the invention of an i-nstrument of the kind was originally made by M. d'Arsonval , and it was in ignorance of this that I sent in my preliminary note .
The instrument consists essentially of a thermo-electric circuit suspended by a torsion fibre in a strong magnetic field .
At first I have shown that the parts cannot be too thin nor the circuit too small until the limils imposed by practical considerations make further rednction objectionable .
I have made the circuit of a bar of antimony and bismnth , with the ends joined by a hoop of copper wire .
I have at first taken the bar as an invariable , and shown how the copper wire may be proportioned to it to give the best results .
By " " best\ldquo ; may be meant that which will give the greatest deflection , either for the weight or for the moment of inertia of the suspemded parts .
Calling the weight of the bar and mirror ( invariable ) , the of the copper wire ( variable ) , the resistance of the bar ( invariable ) , the resistance of the copper wire ( variable ) , the length of the rectangle of copper , supposed 1 cm .
wide , the weight of a piece of copper of unit dimenslons , the resistanco of a piece of copper of unit dimensions , the sectional area of the copper wire , 1888 .
] The 1 have shown that\mdash ; The best sectional area , , vice the best , and that the best number of turns of wire is 1 .
The numerical values for a particular bar mm. are\mdash ; sq .
cm .
, cm .
If the breadth be also a variable , the best rectangle is a square of infinite size made of the samo wire , which is always the best , whatover shape , size , or of turns the circuit may have .
The best cuit with respect to moment of inertia is that which is ractically r , because a convenient period of oscillation must be made use of , and so the torsion must be supposed to vary as the moment of inertia .
A difficulty was found in working the expression for this , which was entirely overcome by supposing the wire where it crosses the axis to have a sectional proporbional to its distance from the axis , except in its immediate neighbotlrhood .
On this supposition the resistance and the moment of inertia of the upper side of the rectangle each to that of half the same length of copper wire on the hides , and not only has the best variation been found , but , is moro important , the coefficients for resistance moment of boen made identical , which is required in order to put the equations into a simplc form .
The exprcssions found with respect to are now applicable to moment of inortia if certain changes are made .
Thus , the gure 1 in the expression for length must be replaced by .
The mome1lt of of the active bar must replace its weight , and the moment of inertia of a unit piece of copper at 5 mm. from the axis must replace its weight It is thus found that the expressions for The best sectional area , .
And is true whatever length or number of turns the circuit may have .
Twice the best length , .
As before , the best number of urns is 1 .
The numerical values are\mdash ; sq .
cm. .
cm .
The Radio-Micrometer .
[ Apr. 19 , These expressions give the pp.tions which will produce the greatest deflection .
But in case of a strong magnet the resistance to the motion is so great as to be more than sufficient to make the movement dead beat , and this is incouvenieut .
I have therefore introduced the effect of this resisbancs inbo the equations , and found expressions for the best circuit that is just dead beat .
Calling the least magnetic field that will make the circuit dead beat , the conductivity of the whole circuit , the moment of inertia of the circuit , I have shown that\mdash ; and that the greatest sensibility of a circnit tbab is just dead beat is\mdash ; From these it is found that the best seclional area is reduced to about three-fourths its previous value , but that the shorier the rectangle of copper the better , until the greatest magnetic field that can be made use of practically is reached .
On considering variations of breadth in the circuit , it is found that if the upper side of the rectangle\mdash ; that which crosses tho axis\mdash ; is neglected , the sensibility is independent of the breadtt ] , and that the following relations hold : \mdash ; Best Best when is the breadth , and that what I have called the greatest efficacy , i.e. , sensibility in a given field , is\mdash ; Since the cross wire becomes increasingly with an increasing breadth of cuit , cannot be made too small .
Further , it appears that the copper wire should have the same moment of inertia and resistance as the invariable parts of the circuit .
Other expressions are given , but it may be sufficient to state here 1888 .
] On Hamilto 's Nnmbers .
that the circuit which is best according to the rules given by these equations is seven times as good as the best previously found .
I then shown that the mirror must be of such a size as to have a moment of inertia one-third of thab of the active bar .
In the particular case considered , where the active bar consists of two pieces , one antimony and one mm. , at a mean distance of 1 .
apart , the diameter of the mirro .
should be mm. This size both theoretically should , and practically does , enable one with certainty to observe a deflection of mm. on a scale 1 metre distant .
General considerations show that the antimony-bismuth bars cannot ve too small a sectional area , but that the length when already short is only involved in a secondary manner .
It is shown that the heat in the circuit is equalised mainly by conduction , which is thirty times as as the Peltier action .
It is found necessary to screen the antimony and bismuth from the magnetic field by letting them swing in hole in a piece of soft iron buried in the brass work .
I have shown that the instrument imagiued in the preliminary note would be so much more than dead beat that it would not be possible to use it advantageously , but on making a calculation for the circuit , now found , usiug conditions which have been proved by practice to well togcther , a difference of tempel.ature of one of a centigrade is by no means beyond the power of observntion .
figures givell by an actual comparison between the newest and ono of the pattcrn is very favourable to the former .
In conclusion , I have explained the pcculiar action of tlJe rotating pile , and have shown that it is different from that figured in Noad 's ' Electricity and Magnetism .
' .
" " On Numbers .
Part II By J. J. SyLVESTER , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford , and JAMES HAbIMOND , , Cantab .
Reccived Iarch 9 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) S4 .
Continuation , to on infinite of terms , of the Asymp totic Development for Hypothenusal In the third section of this paper ( ' Phil. Trans A. , vol. 178 , p. 311 ) it was stated , on what is now seen to be insufficient evidence , that the asymptotic development of , the half of any hypothenusal

