1881 ] On some Effects of Transmitting Electric Currents .
151 shorter .
Inadequate currents , if directed downwards , produce negativity of the upper surface , which lasts for several seconds after the current is broken .
This effect is limited to the surfaces through which the current is led .
Its direction shows it is not dependent on polarisation .
By opening induction currents , if their strength does not much exceed the limit of adequacy , a leaf may be excited at intervals for several hours without failure .
Weaker currents are more effectual when directed downwards than when directed upwards .
If two inadequate induction currents follow one another at any interval less than 0"-4 and greater than 0"-02 , they may evoke a response .
In this case a response follows the second excitation .
When a leaf is subjected to a series of induction currents at short intervals ( *V " ) the response occurs after a greater or less number of excitations .
If the temperature is gradually diminished , the number is increased by each diminution .
All of the above statements relating to excitability refer to plants kept in a moist atmosphere at 32\#151 ; 35 ' C. From the preceding facts , and others which are stated in the paper , the author infers ( 1 ) that the " cross difference " is the expression of electromotive forces which have their seat in the living protoplasm of the parenchyma cells , and that it is due to the contact of cells in different states of physiological activity ; ( 2 ) that the second phase of the excitatory variation is probably dependent on the diminution of turgor of the excited cells , and therefore on the migration of liquid ; ( 3 ) but that no such explanation can possibly be accepted of the phenomena of the first phase , the time relations of which , particularly its sudden accession and rapid propagation , show it to be the analogue of the " negative variation " or " action current " of animal physiology .
II .
" On some Effects of Transmitting ] Electric Currents through Magnetised Electrolytes .
" By Dr. G. Gore , F.R.S. Received November 29 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This communication treats of a class of electro-magnetic rotations observed and examined by the author .
The rotations are produced in liquids by means of axial electric currents , either in the interior of vertical magnets , electro or permanent , or near the poles of such magnets , and differ from rotations previously produced in liquids placed in those positions , by the absence of radial currents , to the VOL. xxxm .
M 152 Dr. G. Gore .
On some Effects of Transmitting [ [ Dec. 15 , influence of which rotations in the interior of hollow magnets have hitherto been ascribed.* It is here shown that a column of an electrolyte placed under similar conditions to an iron wire or rod , when subjected to electro-magnetic torsion ( i.e. , enclosed by an electro-magnetic helix , and traversed axially by an electric current ) , is twisted in a similar manner to the wire or bar .
This effect , however , in the case of a liquid is not limited to paramagnetic substances , nor is the direction of torsion altered by the magnetic character of the liquid .
The rotations produced in liquids by means of axial currents arc opposite in direction at the two ends of the voltaic helix , are strongest at the poles , and at a little distance beyond them , and null at the centre of the tube ; they may be produced at a distance of several inches beyond the poles .
The directions of rotation within the tube , and to a short distance beyond the poles , are in the case of an electro-or permanent magnet opposite to those produced by a voltaic selenoid .
A magnet tube , therefore , has three points of no rotation with an axial current , viz. , one at its centre , and one near each end , whilst a selenoid has only the former one .
The existence of the outer neutral points produced by a magnet depends upon the position of the latter to the liquid , and the distances of those points from the poles of the magnet are affected by various circumstances , which are described in the communication .
If the magnet is wholly above or below the portion of liquid traversed by the axial current , the outer neutral points do not occur .
By the influence of a vertical current , the liquid as a whole may be made to rotate in either single direction ; the motion at one end of the column , therefore , is not dependent upon the opposite direction of motion at the other , and torsion is not a necessary form of the effect .
The reaction of the liquid in the production of the rotation is neither upon another portion of the liquid , nor upon the electrodes , nor upon the walls of the containing vessel , but upon the adjacent magnetised body , and the rotation of the liquid is confined to the portion traversed by the vertical current .
Under suitable conditions , the phenomenon of rotation is definite , conspicuous , and strong , and is usually more powerful with a tubular electro-magnet than with a voltaic coil alone .
A very thin iron tube weakens the effect of the coil , whilst a thick one reverses the motion and makes it stronger .
The system of rotations , either with a coil or magnet , is also perfectly symmetrical .
The directions of rotation produced by a coil alone are independent of the magnetic nature of the wire of the coil .
Like other electro-magnetic effects , the rotations are not prevented by the interposition of metallic screens , provided * In the full paper it is stated that " The whole of the results may be explained by the well-known principles of electro-magnetism .
" 1881 .
] Electric Currents through Magnetised Electrolytes .
153 they are non-magnetic .
The rotations may be easily produced by the aid of a current from three or four Groves elements , especially if permanent bar-magnets are used instead of a voltaic coil .
The rotations by means of vertical currents in the liquid may be produced by the influence of coils or magnets , either above or below the liquids , as well as around it ; with magnets , however , in the former positions , no external reversal points occur .
A magnet placed entirely above or below the liquid produces the same direction of rotation as a coil placed either above , below , or around it .
The direction of rotation produced in a liquid above or within a coil by an upward current in the liquid agrees with that produced by a radial centripetal one within the coil .
A rotation apparatus of the same kind , interposed as a screen , does not prevent or appear to affect the movements .
Each electrode may be made to separately revolve in the presence of a coil or magnet by the well-known influence of the radial currents in them ; and the directions of rotation are the same with a tubular magnet as with a coil .
In this respect the motion produced by radial currents differs from that produced by axial ones .
With each electrode diverging currents within the coil or magnet produce dextro , and converging ones lsevo , rotation when the north pole is above .
The rotation of the electrodes by means of radial currents appears to be independent of that produced in the liquid by means of axial ones .
The rotation also of the vessel containing the liquid may be obtained independently of that of the electrodes , by means of the vertical current in the liquid , without the aid of the radial currents in the electrodes .
The rotations produced by a vertical axis current are not confined to liquids , but may also be produced in a solid conductor , and probably , therefore , with any body conveying an electric current or discharge .
If we regard a coil as a collection of currents , with a vertical current proceeding upwards or downwards from the centre of the coil , either on its inside or outside , the flow of the liquid is in the same direction as the current in the coil ; and similarly with a vertical current proceeding in like manner from the central parts of a tubular iron or steel magnet , the flow of liquid is in the same direction as that of the nearest layer of hypothetical electric currents in the iron .
The directions of rotation produced in liquids by means of radial currents inside a magnet or coil are the same as in the solid electrodes , and are laevo at all positions with centripetal currents , and dextro with centrifugal ones , when the north pole is above .
A given direction of radial current , whether in the electrodes or electrolytes , or above or below a given pole , provided that the pole was not reversed in position , produced the same direction of rotation .
The direction of rotation produced by a radial current approaching a vertical coil or magnet 154 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
Preliminary Report to the [ Dec. 15 , from the outside is the same as that produced by such a current approaching it from the inside .
Various other phenomena , such as temporary reversals of the direction of rotation , successive action of the coil and iron tube , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , are recorded in the paper .
With a Selenoid.\#151 ; An axial current flowing upwards from a south to a north seeking pole , produces dextro rotation at the former and laevo rotation at the latter .
With a Tubular h\#163 ; agnet.\#151 ; These two directions are reversed at all distances between the two neutral points near the poles of the magnets , but not beyond .
The phenomena , therefore , of .
rotation are more complex with a tubular magnet than with a selenoid .
The directions of rotation produced by a vertical current outside a vertical coil or magnet are the same as those produced by it inside a coil alone .
The reversals of direction of rotation near the poles , which occur when a tubular magnet is employed , appear to be due to the inner surface of the magnet , and to the position of that surface in relation to the vertical current in the liquid .
The direction of rotation and the points of reversal appear to be all independent of each other .
The action of radial currents is more simple than that of axial ones , especially near the poles of a magnet .
With radial currents , either in the liquid or electrodes , there is no reversal , either at the centre of the magnet or coil , or at the poles or beyond them , or near the outside of the coil or magnet .
The experiments show the entire group of rotations produced inside and outside a vertical coil ( with and without an iron core ) , and near its poles , by radial currents ; also the group of rotations produced by vertical currents inside and outside a vertical coil and near its poles , and also those produced inside and outside and near the poles of a vertical coil with a tubular iron core , by such currents .
The experiments show in a conspicuous manner the difference of property of the interior surface of a hollow magnet and of that of a voltaic selenoid having the same kind of poles at their corresponding ends .
This difference of property is well known , but is illustrated in the paper in a new way experimentally .
III .
" Preliminary Report to the Solar Physics Committee on the Sun-spot Observations made at Kensington .
" By J. N. Lockyer .
Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Solar Physics Committee .
Received November 29 , 1881 .
Since the commencement of the observations , in November , 1879 , of the twelve most widened lines in sun-spots , about 220 observations have

