PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
" On the Combining Properties of Serum-Complements and on Complementoids .
" By Robert Muir , M.D. , Professor of Pathology , University of Glasgow , and Carl H. Browning , M.B. , Ch. B. , Joseph Coats Research Scholar , University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Sir J. S. Burdon-Sanderson , Bari ? .
, F.R.S. Received May 17 , \#151 ; Read June 9 , 1904 .
The combining properties of serum-complement have been studied in two chief relationships .
In the first place , its combination with red corpuscles or bacteria , through the medium of the appropriate immune-body , has been investigated to a certain extent , and facts of considerable importance have been obtained .
Taking the case of haemolytic sera , we may for the present put aside the question whether the immune-body acts as a link ( amboceptor ) between the molecule of the red corpuscle and complement ( Ehrlich 's view ) , or whether complement enters into direct combination with the molecules of the red corpuscles through the influence of the immune-body .
If we represent the combining molecules or receptors of the red corpuscles by R , and the immune-body by IB , it is sufficient for our present purpose to recognise that C combines with R + IB .
In the second place , complement enters into combination with the anti-complement developed in the serum of an animal of different species by injection of complement into that animal ; we may thus speak of the combination of C with anti-C .
It may be recalled that .Ehrlich regards complement as consisting of two chief atom groups , viz. , a haptophore or combining group , and a zymotoxic , by which it produces its characteristic effect .
He also concludes , as the result of an ingenious series of experiments* in conjunction with Morgenroth , that the anti-complement fills up the haptophore group of complement , and thus prevents combination with red corpuscles united to immune-body , .
, with R + IB molecules .
* Ehrlich and Morgenroth , Berlin , ' Klin .
Woch .
, ' 1900 , No. 31 .
VOL. LXXIV .
B Prof. R. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ May 17 , A particular anti-complement has , as a rule , the greatest neutralising effect on the complement used for its production , though it may have an action also on the complements of some'other animals , whilst on others still it has little or no effect .
This would point to a difference in the haptophore groups of the several complements .
Yet these may be effective in haemolysis , i.e. , they may combine with the R + IB molecules , and therefore the haptophore groups of these different complements would appear to be the same .
This apparent contradiction has been discussed by Bordet* and by Ehrlich and Morgenroth , t and the latter observers suggest -that there may be more than one immune-body , one combining with the complement of animal A and another combining that of animal B. It seemed to us that this and other questions might be investigated by the method devised by one of us , J by means of which the amount of complement taken up by the R + IB molecules can be estimated .
We can thus determine whether these molecules saturated for the complement of one species are also saturated for that of another species .
The present paper falls into two chief parts , the first dealing with the combining affinities of complement for anti-complement and for R + IB molecules respectively , the second dealing with complementoids .
The methods used of estimating the value of immune-body and of complement are those of Ehrlich and Y. Dungern , as explained in a previous paper .
We shall use the following abbreviations:\#151 ; C = complement , anti-C = anti-complement , IB = immune body , R = the receptors of the red corpuscles which combine with immunerbody , M.H.D. = minimum haemolytic dose .
When we are speaking of doses , a numeral is placed before the symbol , thus , 3IB will mean three times the amount of immune-body necessary for haemolysis in presence of excess of complement , and 3R + 3IB will signify three doses of IB , combined with the corresponding number of receptors of the red corpuscles ; R + IB + C will , of course , indicate a condition leading to complete haemolysis .
I.\#151 ; On the Combining ( Haptophore ) Group of Complement .
( a ) On the Firmness of the Combinations of Complement.\#151 ; In the first place we may consider the relative stability of the combination C + R + IB on the one hand and the combination C + anti-C on the other hand .
It has been shown by one of us in a previous communication that in the particular instance studiedS there is no evidence that C after * * * S * Bordet , ' Annales de l'lnst .
Pasteur , ' 1901 , p. 303 .
t Ehrlich , and Morgenroth , op .
cit. X Muir , ' The Lancet , ' 1903 , vol. 2 , p. 446 .
S It must be noted that the results obtained apply only to the particular conditions investigated , and must be interpreted in that light .
1904 .
] Combining Properties of Serum-Complements , etc. 3 combination with R + IB can be dissociated , but it will be well to give a detailed experiment in illustration .
The red corpuscles of the ox saturated with the corresponding IB obtained from the rabbit can take up about 8\#151 ; 9 haemolytic doses of guinea-pig 's C , and if we make the suspension of red corpuscles four times the usual strength , i.e. , 20 per cent. , then 1 c.c. of such a suspension will take up more than 30 doses of C. We can then test whether any of the C is recoverable .
The following are the details:\#151 ; 1 .
1 c.c. of a 20-per-cent , suspension of ox 's corpuscles in salt solution is placed in a test-tube , and there are adjled ( a)more than sufficient IB to saturate the corpuscles , ( 6 ) 1 c.c. of guinea-pig 's C ( the M.H.D. is 0*055 c.c. ) , so that nearly twenty doses are added .
2 .
The tube is placed in the incubator for 2 hours at C. , the contents being well shaken from time to time .
3i At the end of 2 hours 0*5 c.c. of a 5-per-ceht .
suspension of ox corpuscles , treated with IB , is added ( the haemolytic dose of 0 for this is , of course , 0*027 c.c. ) ; the tube is placed in the incubator for another hour .
4 .
The contents of the tube are then centrifugalised , and the corpuscles are washed with salt solution to remove the red fluid .
The corpuscles are then laked with water , and compared with 0*5 c.c. suspension of red corpuscles similarly treated .
The result is that no perceptible haemolysis of the added corpuscles has taken place .
By the method employed the haemolysis of less than a fifth of the corpuscles is readily detected , i.e. , if 0 ; 005 c.c. of C were recoverable , this would be shown by the resulting haemolysis .
Such an experiment , therefore , shows ( a ) that practically complete combination of the added complement takes place , and ( b ) that of the combined complement not 1 per cent , can be dissociated .
* When the saturation point has been reached , i.e. , when C is first obtainable , any C then added remains free to a large extent .
In a former paper it was stated that , as a rule , a single dose of C added remains free , but further experiments show that this is rather the exception .
It sometimes occurs , but usually after the saturation point more than one dose of C requires to be added to give one dose free .
Considerable variations occur in this respect , and we are unable to explain them , though possibly the presence of a certain proportion of complementoid mixed with the complement may be the cause .
This , however , does not affect the statement regarding the firmness of the union of G with ft + IB after combination has taken place .
When we come to the combination of C with anti-C , we find that quite another condition obtains .
Here we have an exaggerated instance of what Ehrlich found in the case of a toxin and anti-toxin , viz. , that when a neutral mixture of these substances is made , and time is allowed for combination , the addition of several lethal doses of toxin may be necessary before a lethal dose remains free .
The following may be taken as examples:\#151 ; B 2 Prof. R. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ May 17 , 1 .
C of guinea-pig ; M.H.D. = 0*03 c.c. Anti-C to guinea-pig 's C obtained by injecting a rabbit with guinea-pig 's serum .
To each of a series of tubes containing 0*5 c.c. salt solution 0*1 c.c. anti-C is added , and to the several tubes 0*03 , 0*04 , 0*5 c.c. , etc. , of guinea-pig 's C is added .
The tubes are placed in the incubator at 37 ' 0 .
for an hour .
The amount of C obtainable in each tube is tested by adding to each 1 c.c. suspension of red corpuscles , treated with IB , and incubating for an hour , the tubes being afterwards placed in a cool chamber for 16 hours .
It is found that in the tube containing 0*03 c.c. C a mere trace of lysis has occurred , in the tube 0*04 c.c. C half the corpuscles have undergone solution , but it is not till the tube containing 0*12 c.c. C is reached that complete haemolysis of the corpuscles has occurred .
In other words , if we take the tube where C'is first obtainable from the mixture of C and anti-C , three additional doses of C must be added before a full haemolytic dose is obtainable .
2 .
In this case 0*05 c.c. anti-C is used , and the M.H.D. of C is 0*05 c.c. The procedure is the same as before .
The result is that even from the tube containing 0*03 c.c. of C a trace of C is obtainable , but a full haemolytic dose is got first in the tube containing 0*1 c.c. of C , i.e. , one-and-a-half haemolytic doses must be added ere one remains free .
( It is to be noted that here the amount of anti-C is only half of what it was in the previous case .
) Such results , which agree with those of Bordet , clearly show that with a mixture of C and anti-C there is no sharp line of neutralisation .
On the contrary , even with relatively small amounts of C and anti-C , if we determine the point at which C is first obtainable , then several doses of C must be added before a full dose is obtainable .
We have avoided using the term " free C " with reference to the C which is obtainable from such mixtures , because we believe that part of the C is got by dissociation .
Of this there is distinct evidence .
In every case where red corpuscles treated with IB are added to a mixture of C and anti-C , and complete lysis has not occurred , it is found that after the corpuscles have been allowed to settle , a zone of diffusion of haemoglobin is seen above the sedimented corpuscles .
This is evidently to be explained on the supposition that in such a tube there is , in addition to the combined C , a minute trace of free C. This latter combines with the red corpuscles , and according to the law regarding substances loosely combined , a small quantity of C is dissociated from the combination C + anti-C to take its place .
This process is repeated during the sedimentation of the red corpuscles , and the result is an additional amount of solution of haemoglobin .
Such a phenomenon is not seen in ordinary test-tube experiments , where there is incomplete lysis with a mixture merely of C and IB .
It follows from what we have said that we consider it to be impossible to determine by such methods the exact point at which C remains free in a mixture of C and anti-C ; we can 1904 .
] Combining Properties of Serum-Components , etc. 5 only determine how much C is obtainable , and this amount will be in excess of the free C , because part of it is got by dissociation .
As is well known , Ehrlich explained the analogous phenomenon in the case of diphtheria toxin and anti-toxin by supposing that in the " toxin " there is a mixture of toxin in the proper sense and degenerated toxin or toxoid , the latter having little toxic action and also , as a rule , a feebler combining affinity .
Bordet , * on the other hand , explains the phenomenon in the case of complement and anti-complement by the hypothesis that an anti-complement molecule has no fixed combining relationship , but may become united to one , two , three , etc. , complement molecules , so that we have AC1 , AC2 , AC3 combinations .
Madsen , Dreyer , and Arrhenius , t from a number of very important researches on tetanolysin and diphtheria toxin , come to the conclusion that the union of toxin and anti-toxin follows the chemical law of Guldberg and Waage for substances whose combining affinity is somewhat feeble .
In other words , the combination belongs to the category of reversible actions , the amount of the two substances in combination having always a definite relationship to the amount of each of the two substances free .
We have not worked out with sufficient fullness the behaviour of C and anti-C to make a definite statement on this point ; we may , however , state that the results which we have got present a close analogy to those of the Danish observers .
It should be noted , however , that the nature of the union of toxin or complement with its anti-substance is one matter , the question as to the existence of toxoids and complementoids is another .
( b ) On the Specific Affinities of the \#151 ; There is another way in which the combinations of C with anti-C and B + IB molecules respectively may be compared , namely , as regards specific affinities .
1 .
Using the anti-C to guinea-pig 's C obtained from the rabbit , we find in confirmation of Ehrlich and Morgenroth that this anti-C has some effect on rabbit 's C , though it is very slight .
In a given case , for example , we found that the addition of OT c.c. anti-C to the M.H.D. of rabbit 's C scarcely diminishes the amount of lysis which follows when the test amount of red corpuscles treated with IB is added ; there is merely a slight deposit in the tube as compared with the control , and 0'6 of a M.H.D. of C has to be added before this disappears , i.e. , 1*6 M.H.D. treated with OT c.c. anti-C produces quite complete haemolysis .
With guinea-pig 's complement OT c.c. anti-C with a little more than the M.H.D. of C prevents lysis almost completely , and three additional doses of C must be added to the mixture before complete lysis occurs when the test is made in the same way # Bordet , ' Annalcs de l'lnst .
Pasteur , ' vol. 17 , 1903 , p. 161 .
t Vide 'Festskrif t ved Indvielsen af Statens Serum Institut , ' Copenhagen , 1902 ; also Madsen , ' Centralbl .
f. Bakteriol .
, ' vol. 34 , p. 630 .
Prof. R. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ May 17 , { vide supra ) , i.e. , 4M.H.D .
treated with 0*1 c.c. anti-C produces lysis .
The anti-C has thus a marked effect on guinea-pig 's C as compared with that on rabbit 's C. One would conclude that while some of the molecules in the rabbit 's C and in the guinea-pig 's C have the same combining affinity , most of the molecules in the rabbit 's C do not combine with the anti-C , i.e. , have a different haptophore group from that of the molecules of guinea-pig 's complement .
2 .
How do the complements behave towards the same R + IB molecules 1 As is well known , ox 's corpuscles , treated with IB from the rabbit , are lysed on the addition either of guinea-pig 's C or of rabbit 's C. This would point to the haptophore groups of the two complements being the same .
Ehrlich and Morgenroth have supposed in the corresponding case of the IB to-rabbit 's Corpuscles obtained from the guinea-pig , that there are really two IB 's present , one of which combines with the rabbit 's complement and one with the guinea-pig 's , and point out in favour of this view that when rabbit 's C is used , the M.H.D. of IB is about ten times greater than when guinea-pig 's C is used .
We have accordingly investigated the case of the immune-body obtained by injecting the rabbit with ox 's corpuscles .
As both rabbit 's and guinea-pig 's complements are taken lip by ox 's corpuscles combined with immune-body , the question comes to be whether both complements combine with the same molecules .
Does the combination of guinea-pig 's complement prevent the combination of rabbit 's complement and vice versd 1 We have conducted a large number of experiments of this nature , and the result has always been to give an answer in the affirmative .
The experiments are on the same lines as those already described .
Suppose we wish to test how much guinea-pig 's complement is kept from combination by the previous combination of a given amount of rabbit 's complement .
To one series ( A ) of tubes , each containing the test amount of corpuscles combined with the same amount of IB ( generally 3\#151 ; 4 D ) , we add increasing amounts of guinea-pig 's complement and test how much the treated corpuscles will take up .
In another series ( B ) of similar tubes , we add a given amount of rabbit 's C , allow combination to take place for an hour at 37 ' C. , and then test as before how much guinea-pig 's C will be taken up .
( It is convenient in such experiments to produce lysis first of all in all the tubes , in a case such as the present by guinea-pig 's 0 .
The amount of C used , of course , is added to the final result .
) The excess in the amount of guinea-pig 's 0 taken up in series A over that taken up in series B gives the amount which has been kept out by the amount of rabbit 's C used .
The following may be cited as examples:\#151 ; 1 .
No.'3 .
M.H.D. of guinea-pig 's C = 0 05 c.c. ; M.H.D. of rabbit 's 0 = 0'22 c.c. About 3D of IB added to each of two series of tubes , each tube containing 1 c.c. suspension of red corpuscles .
1904.1 Combining Properties of Serum-Complements , .
7 % Series A. Guinea-pig 's C alone added .
Amount taken up = 0*24 c.c. Series B. 0*25 c.c. rabbit 's C first , and then guinea-pig 's 0 .
Amount of guinea-pig 's C taken up = 0*19 c.c. Therefore , 0'25 c.c. of rabbit 's C has kept from combination about 0'05 c.c. guinea-pig 's C. 2 .
No. 24 .
M.H.D. of guinea-pig 's C = 0*04 c.c. ; M.H.D. of rabbit 's C = 0'3 c.c. About 3D of IB added to each tube as before .
Series A. Rabbit 's C alone added ; amount taken up = 1'35 c.c. Series B. 0*04 c.c. of guinea-pig 's Cfirst , and then rabbit 's C. Amount of rabbit 's C taken up = 0'9 c.c. Therefore , 0'04 c.c. df guinea-pig 's C has kept out 0'45 rabbit 's C. 3 .
No. 31 .
M.H.D. of guinea-pig 's C = 0*0175 c.c. ; M.H.D. of rabbit 's C = 0*1 c.c. , 4D of IB added to each tube .
Series A. Guinea-pig 's C alone added .
Amount taken up = 0*11 c.c. Series B. 0*1 c.c. of rabbit 's C first , and then guinea-pig 's C. Amount of guinea-pig 's C taken up = 0*09 c.c. Therefore , 0*1 c.c. rabbit 's C has kept out 0*02 c.c. guinea-pig 's C. Another method is to determine whether R + IB molecules saturated , say , for rabbit 's complement are also saturated for guinea-pig 's complement .
To one series ( A ) of tubes , each containing the same amount of red corpuscles and the same amount of IB , complement of rabbit is added in increasing amounts , and the tubes are placed in the incubator for 2 hours at 37 ' C. The same procedure is carried out in another series ( B ) , but at the end of the 2 hours a haemolytic dose of guinea-pig 's C is added to each tube .
The tubes of both series are placed in the incubator for another hour , and the presence of free C is tested for in the usual way .
It is evident that the first series will give the point of saturation with rabbit 's C , and the corresponding tube in the second series will show whether such a tube can still take up guinea-pig 's complement .
As an example , in one experiment it is found that in series A the tube with 0*2 c.c. rabbit 's C added gives a fifth of a haemolytic dose of free C , whilst in series B the tube containing 0*2 c.c. rabbit 's C gives a full haemolytic dose of free C. Thus it is shown that the tube - saturated with rabbit 's C took up not more than a fifth of a dose of guinea-pig 's C. ( A separate estimation carried out at the same time gave 0*14 c.c. as the amount of guinea-pig 's C taken up by the same amount of red corpuscles treated with IB .
) It will be shown below that a corresponding result is obtained by saturation with complementoids .
We have , therefore , shown that in the case studied practically all the molecules of .
the guinea-pig 's complement combine with the same R + IB molecules of the ox as the molecules of the rabbit 's complement combine with .
Another interesting point which presents itself is whether the haemolytic value of a complement corresponds with the combining value .
The haemolytic dose of normal rabbit 's serum in the case Prof. B. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ May 17 , studied is always several times that of guinea-pig 's complement .
This may be because there are fewer complement molecules in a given amount of rabbit 's serum or because the zymotoxic group of the rabbit 's complement is less active than that of the guinea-pig 's complement .
In the former case a haemolytic dose of rabbit 's complement will prevent the combination of a haemolytic dose of guinea-pig 's complement ; in the latter it will prevent the combination of more .
Our experiments are not sufficiently extensive to give a definite statement on this point , especially in view of the fact that during the progress of an experiment the haemolytic action of complement may diminish , and this change in the value does not always occur in the two complements in the same proportion .
We may say , however , that we have obtained in several instances a correspondence between the combining and the haemolytic ratio , a haemolytic dose of guinea-pig 's complement keeps out a dose of rabbit 's , and We are inclined to think that this may be the rule in the case before us , and that probably the divergences in these ratios which we have also met with are the result of accidental disturbing causes .
We do not consider this point as satisfactorily settled .
It is to be noted that the M.H.D. of the IB is practically the same , with the two complements used , provided that the natural IB of the guinea-pig 's serum for the ox 's corpuscles be first removed .
In other cases recently investigated by us where this does not hold , a distinct difference between combining relationships and haemolytic action has been brought out .
Conclusion .
It is seen ( 1 ) that the firmness of combination is much greater in the case of C with R + IB molecules than of C with anti-C , and ( 2 ) that differences in the combining affinities of the C 's of two animals brought out when tested with anti-C may not obtain when tested with R + IB .
The latter result involves an apparent contradiction , but is probably to be explained by the energy of combination in the two cases .
It is quite intelligible that differences shown to exist where the chemical union is of a loose nature may not be detectable when the combining affinity is strong .
The relation of a toxin or complement to its corresponding anti-substance is often compared to that of a key to a lock , but the above results show that this is not accurate , as the comparison would involve that two different keys can be forced into the same lock .
Complements which may be shown by their behaviour to anti-complements to be different , may still act as if they were similar in the processes of haemolysis and , probably , of bacteriolysis .
II.\#151 ; On Complementoidsand their Combination .
Ehrlich has pointed out the analogy which exists between complements and toxins of various kinds .
Looked at from the point of view 1904.1 Combining Properties of Serum-Complements , etc. 9 of the red corpuscle or bacterium , the complement is the toxic agent which leads to its partial or complete destruction , the auxiliary action of the immune-body being , however , necessary .
From his study of changes which occur in toxins and their neutralisation by anti-toxin , he came to the conclusion that the toxophore group might undergo degeneration while the haptophore group survived , though its combining energy might be weakened .
To such an altered toxin he gave the name toxoid .
The results of haemolytic studies led him to the conclusion that a similar change might occur in complements , the result being complementoids .
The chief evidence for the existence of com-plementoids is the following :\#151 ; In most cases when normal sera are heated to 55 C. for an hour , the characteristic action ( haemolysis , bacteriolysis ) of complement is lost , but such a serum when injected into an animal of different species has the faculty of leading to the formation of anti-complement .
Hence , .apparently the zymotoxic group of the complement has been destroyed , while the haptophore remains .
Again , Ehrlich and Sachs* showed in the case of the haemolytic action which the dog 's serum normally possesses towards the guinea-pig 's corpuscles , that the combining group of the R + IB molecules might be filled up by complementoid , and thus the action of complement , i.e. , haemolysis , might be prevented .
In most instances , however , this is not the case , and we must conclude either that complementoid does not usually combine with R + IB , or that if it does , it can be displaced by complement .
So far as we know , the existence of complementoids in such heated sera has not been shown by test-tube experiments , though the production of anticomplements by them is strong presumptive evidence in favour of their .existence .
We accordingly bring forward the following methods which prove their existence:\#151 ; Is Complementoid present in Serum heated at 55 ' C. t We have demonstrated the existence of complementoids by two methods , viz. : ( 1 ) by showing that they combine with R + IB molecules after lysis , and thus prevent a certain amount of C from being taken up ; ( 2 ) by showing that they combine with anti-C , and thus diminish the amount of C which can be neutralised by a given amount of anti-C .
We may state that the complement to be tested has usually been heated for 1^ hours at 57 ' C. , and in every case a test was made , to show that it was devoid of haemolytic power .
( 1 ) As was shown by Ehrlich and Morgenroth , the addition of Cd to red corpuscles treated with IB does not prevent the combination of C and the occurrence of lysis .
We may represent this as follows , the .small circle indicating a red corpuscle :\#151 ; * Ehrlich and Sachs , * Berlin Klin .
Woch1902 , No. 21 .
Prof. E. Muir and Mr. C. , H. Browning .
[ May 17 , Eesult = lysis .
The vertical dotted line indicates a period of incubation far 1 houry unless when otherwise stated .
After , lysis has occurred , however , Cd can combine with the E + IB molecules .
It has been shown that a large amount of C can be taken up through the medium of multiple doses of IB , and that the combination of C is a firm one .
Thus :\#151 ; 2 hrs .
04 { ib+4C + o f E .
Eesult = no lysis in added \ IB .
corpuscles .
If , however , we add in the same case 3Cd after lysis by 1C , but before the addition of the other 3C , the result is different , thus :\#151 ; .
2 hrs .
o*{5+o Lysis + 3Cd + 3C Result = lysis in added corpuscles .
In other words , the Cd molecules have united with the R + IR molecules after lysis , and have prevented the added C from being taken up ; this is shown by the test corpuscles undergoing lysis by means of the free C. To avoid repetition , we may here state that the stages of all such experiments are the following:\#151 ; 1 .
To each of a series of tubes containing the standard amount of corpuscles , a certain amount of IB is added , usually three to four haemolytic doses .
2 .
To each tube is added a little more than the haemolytic dose of complement* and a certain amount of complementoid ( heated serum ) .
The tubes are placed in the incubator for an hour at 37 ' C. Haemolysis , of course , occurs , and time ia allowed for the Cd to combine with the It + IB molecules .
3 .
To the several tubes in series complement is then added in increasing amount .
Experience shows how much C is likely to be taken up , and the last tubes should* of course , contain more than this .
The tubes are incubated at 37 ' C. for 2 hours .
4 .
To each tube is added the standard amount of red corpuscles , treated previously with 3D of IB , and the tubes are placed in the incubator for another hour .
Haemolysis will , of course , take place in the added corpuscles according to the amount of uncombined C present in each tube .
The tubes are then placed in a cool chamber till next morning ; the red fluid in each tube is pipetted off , and the-amount of sedimented corpuscles left is estimated as above described .
In a control set of tubes complement only is added , and we thus ascertain how much C is taken up when ito Cd is present .
It is then seen how much C has been 1904.1 CombiningPvopwtios of etc. 11 prevented from combining with the R + IB molecules by means of a given amount of Cd .
( 2 ) Complementoid combines with anti-complement , and prevents the union of the latter with complement .
If the ordinary action of anti-complement is shown thus , Anti-C + C +o{\#163 ; Result = no lysis , then we may represent the effect of Cd by the following schemeAnti-C + Cd + C +o{\#163 ; Result = partial lysis .
The following are the details of such an experiment:\#151 ; Two series ( A and B ) , of nine tubes , each containing 0*5 c.c. salt * solution .
C of guinea-pig M.H.D. = 0'03 c.c. , Cd = the same serum heated .
Anti-C is the serum ( heated at 57 ' C. ) of a rabbit injected with guinea-pig 's serum .
Series A. Each tube receives 0*1 c.c. anti-C and 0*1 c.c. Cd .
Series B. To each tube , 0*1 c.c. anti-C alone is added .
All the tubes are placed in the incubator for an hour at 37 ' C. To the several tubes of both series alike are then added increasing amounts of C , viz. , 0*03 , 0*04 , 0*05 c.c. , etc. Incubation for another hour .
To each tube the standard amount of red corpuscles treated with IB is then added , and the tubes are incubated for , another hour .
The results are shown in the following table :\#151 ; j Amount of C added in c.c. . .
Series A\#151 ; Amount of lysis in added corpuscles ... ... ... . .
Series B , ditto ... 1 .
2 .
3 .
to it 1 6 .
0-03 9 o 0*05 1 10-06 0*03 0*1 V Y~ j 0*78 0-88 0*9 Almost con 1 lplete 0-1 0-55 0*62 0-7 0-77 1 [ 0*80 7 .
0*12 8 .
I 9 .
| 10 .
0*14 0-16 Complete 0*88 Almost complete 0-18 Com- plete The effect of Cd in preventing the combination of C is thus seen throughout .
If we take the first tube , it is seen that the previous addition of 0*1 c.c. Cd has kept out sufficient C to produce lysis of 0'68 of the added corpuscles , i.e. , about 0*02 c.c. C. Prof. R. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ May 17 , On the Amount of Complementoid derived from Complement .
We have seen that the evidence for the existence of complementoid is supplied by its preventing complement from combining with certain molecules ( R + IB and anti-C respectively ) .
The amount of complementoid present may be measured by the amount of complement which is thus kept out of combination .
Thus , if each molecule of complement gives rise to one molecule of complementoid , then OT c.c. of heated serum ( Cd ) should prevent the combination of the complement in 0-1 c.c. of the same serum unheated , provided , however , that the complement cannot displace the complementoid after it has combined .
Suppose we wish to estimate how much complement will be kept out by a given amount of complementoid , we proceed as follows .
Two series of tubes ( A and B ) are taken , and to each tube is added the same amount of IB ( say four doses ) ; lysis is produced in all the tubes by a dose of C. To each tube in series A a given amount of Cd is added , and 1 hour at 37 ' C. is allowed for combination .
We then add increasing amounts of C to the tubes in each series , and find , by the method described above , how much C is taken up in the two series .
The difference between the amounts in the two series gives , of course , the amount of C which has been prevented from combining by the Cd used. .
We can in the same way compare the amount of guinea-pig 's C , kept out by a given amount of rabbit 's C and Cd respectively , and the amount of rabbit 's C kept out by guinea-pig 's C and Cd .
Of course , in every experiment of this kind , the Cd is a heated portion of the same C as that used for comparison .
A considerable number of experiments of this kind have been performed both with rabbit 's and guinea-pig 's complementoids , and differences are found in the two cases .
In five experiments in which rabbit 's complementoid was used , it was found that there was kept out of combination a quantity of complement , approximately equal to the amount of complementoid used .
In the case of the guinea-pig 's complement , on the other hand , the amount of complement kept out was always distinctly less ; on the average , 0'6 c.c. of C corresponded to 1 c.c. of .
complementoid .
We may therefore say that a molecule of rabbit 's C gives rise to a molecule of Cd , which has an affinity for the R + IB molecules after lysis , practically equal to that of C ; whereas , with the guinea-pig , in the process of heating , either some of the C becomes entirely destroyed , or the Cd formed has a lower combining affinity , and some of it can be displaced by C. On the Relative Firmness of Union of C and Cd respectively with R + IB Molecules after Lysis .
To determine this , we have compared in the usual way the amount of unaltered C which can be taken up , with the amount of a mixture 1904 .
] Combining Properties of Serum-Complements , etc. of C and Cd in equal parts .
If the C and Cd molecules have the same combining power , it is evident that the saturation of the R + IB molecules will occur after the addition of the same amounts in the two cases .
After the saturation point has been reached , however , twice as much of the C + Cd mixture as of the undiluted C would have to be added before a free dose of C would be obtained .
As a matter of fact , this is pretty much what happens .
The following may be taken as examples :\#151 ; I. Two series of tubes , A and B , 3D of IB added to each tube , and lysis is produced in all by ID of C = 0-05 c.c. C is then added in increasing amounts .
A. i. 2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
7 .
Amount of C added in e.c ... Amount of C left over 0*1 0 0-15 0 0*2 trace 0-25 much .
+ 1 O iH 0*35 1D + 0*4 1D + B. Amount of 0 and Cd mixed in equal parts Amount of 0 left over 0*1 0 0-15 0 0*2 first trace 0-25 ( race 0*3 more 0*35 ID- 0-4 ID + II .
5D of IB to each tube .
M.H.D. of C = O'OS .
A. i. 2 .
, 3 .
4 .
5 .
e. 8- 9 .
Amount of C added in c.c. 0*08 0-12 0-16 0-2 0-24 !
0*28 0 32 0 -36 0*4 Amount of C left over in doses 0 0 065D 1D.+ ID + ID + ID + 1 ID + ID + B. Amount of mixture of | 1 C and Cd , equal parts added jo-08 0*12 0*16 0-2 0*24 0-23 0-32 0-36 \#151 ; i Amount of C left over in I doses 0 0 0-l7D|065D ID + i 1D + 1 ID + ID + \#151 ; It appears from these examples that the points at which free C appears in the two cases ( ( a ) , where pure C is used , and ( b ) where a mixture of C and Cd in equal parts is used ) approximately correspond \#151 ; only a little more of the mixture of C and Cd has to be added before saturation of the R + IB molecules occurs .
It is also seen that , after the saturation point has been reached , fully twice as much of the 14 Prof. R Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ May 17 , mixture as of pure C has to be added before a free dose of C is obtained .
Of course , if the C molecules had a much greater affinity than the Cd molecules , the actual amount of C added would be approximately the same in the two instances .
This , however , is very far from being the case .
In other experiments we have found , when lysis is produced first , then a small quantity of Cd added and allowed to combine , and then increasing amounts of C , that the surplus C appears to come off less sharply than when C alone has been added .
This would appear to indicate that a certain amount of Cd is displaced by C ; it must , however , be a small amount .
We may therefore conclude that the C and Cd have approximately the same combining affinity for the R + IB molecules after lysis .
If there is a difference in favour of the energy of combination of the former , it is a slight one .
On the Relative Firmness of Union of C and Cd with Anti-C .
Here the mode of procedure is of the same nature .
A given amount of anti-C is added to salt solution in two series of tubes .
To the A tubes increasing amounts of pure C are added ; to the B tubes the same amounts of a mixture of C and Cd in equal parts .
One and a-half hours at 37 ' C. are allowed for combination , and then red corpuscles treated with IB are added to each tube to find how much C is obtainable .
Examples:\#151 ; 1.\#151 ; OT c.c. anti-C in each tube .
A. Amount of 0 added in Amount of 0 obtain-able from the mixture in doses ( D ) ... 1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
6 .
1 i 6 .
7 .
8 .
9 .
10 .
11 .
\#166 ; | !
0 -04 0 -05 0 iO 1 ?
o o_ 0 -07 0 -08 first 0 *12 trace , 0 *09 0 -1 \#166 ; | 0*27 0/ 27 1 0*12 0 -4 0-14 0-73 1 0*16 0*82 , 1 0-18 0-88 Amount of 0 and Cd 1 in equal parts added Amount of C obtainable 0-04 0 0-05 0 0*06 0 0-07 0 0 -08 0 0-09 first 01 0-15 0-12 X* jO *14 0-3 0-16 0-55 0'18 0-68 trace * This tube was accidentally broken .
1904 .
] Combining Properties of etc. 15 2.\#151 ; 0*05 c.c. anti-Cin each tube .
A. l. 2 .
3 .
4 .
4 .
1 5- 7 .
8 .
9 .
10 .
Amount of C added in c.c. . .
Amount of C 0*03 0 04 0*05 0*06 0-07 0*08 0 09 0*1 0*12 0*14 obtainable , in doses ( D ) 0*09 0*12 0*4 0*48 0*65 0*73 0*9 1*0 1 + 1 + B. Amount of C and Cd in equal parts added ... 0-05 0*06 0*07 0*09 0*1 0*12 0*14 0*16 0*18 0*2 Amount of C ob- tainable 0*05 0-15 0*28 0*4 0*5 0*73 0*88 1 1 + 1 + In this case of course , as already explained , the surplus C comes off much more gradually , and a more accurate result might be expected .
The theoretical consideration of all the factors , however , is one of much complexity , and we do not claim to explain it fully .
The following points are to be noted however:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The amount of C obtainable has been estimated by the amount of lysis\#151 ; the two , how- .
ever , only approximately correspond\#151 ; it is not possible to detect the smallest amount of C , we can only note the first appreciable lysis ; ( 2 ) as has been stated , the combining value of C ( fresh serum ) usually falls somewhat when converted into Cd .
( Unfortunately a separate estimation of the exact value of Cd in the experiments before us was not made ) ; ( 3 ) when there is a surplus , of C and Cd molecules the former are taken up by the intact corpuscles treated with IB , the latter not at all ; the balance of dissociation may thus be affected .
Looking , however , at the results in a general way , we see that C is kept out of combination by Cd , that the points at which surplus C is obtained are not far distant from each other in the two series , and that the interval from the point at which C is first obtainable to that at which a full dose is got is much lengthened in series B , though it is not quite doubled .
If we take the tube in series B ( mixture of C and Cd added ) , which gives a third lysis in the added corpuscles , we find that the corresponding tube in series A ( C alone added ) gives about two-thirds lysis .
We may thus conclude that with anti-C also the firmness of union of Cd does not differ greatly from that of C. On the Union of Complementoid with R + IB Molecules before Lysis .
As has been mentioned above , the addition of complementoid to red corpuscles treated with IB does not prevent the subsequent action of 16 Prof. R Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ May 17 , complement and the production of lysis .
This may be due either ( a ) to complementoid failing to combine with the R + IB molecules , or ( b ) to its being displaced by complement after it has combined ; both factors may be partly concerned .
There are two methods by which the question may be investigated , and we have carried out both of them .
In the first place we may add a given amount of heated serum ( Cd ) to red corpuscles treated with IB , allow time for combination , then remove the fluid by centrifugalisation , and then test the amount of Cd present in the fluid by finding how much C it will prevent from combining with R + IB molecules after lysis .
We shall call the Cd treated in this way Cdx .
A control is made with the same amount of heated serum ( Cd ) which has not been in contact with red corpuscles treated with IB .
We have performed a number of experiments of this kind , and the result has always been to show that only a fraction of the Cd combines with the R + IB molecules .
In one experiment it was found that the Cdx of the rabbit kept out two-thirds of the amount of guinea-pig 's C kept out by rabbit 's Cd , i.e. , only one-third of the Cd molecules had combined with the intact red corpuscles treated with IB .
With guinea-pig 's Cdx , in one case a similar result was obtained , whilst in another a half of the Cd molecules had been removed by combination .
Another method is to bring Cd into contact for a given time with red corpuscles treated with IB ( say , 3IB ) , then to centrifugalise and wash these corpuscles , and then test how much C they will take up .
The control will be red corpuscles treated with the same amount of IB , but not with Cd .
Similar results emerge from experiments of this kind .
The following may be taken as an example :\#151 ; Three sets of tubes containing the standard amount of red corpuscles , fully 3D of IB added to each tube .
1 .
Series A -\#151 ; We estimate how much guinea-pig 's C will be taken up .
2 .
Series B.\#151 ; We estimate how much C will be taken up after the addition of 004 c.c. Cd ( lysis having beey first produced ) .
3 .
Series C.\#151 ; The corpuscles are treated with 0*6 c.c. Cd for an hour at 37 ' C. , then centrifugalised and washed to remove the free Cd .
We then estimate how much C the corpuscles will take up .
The result is that in\#151 ; Series A ... ... . .
0T75 c.c. of C is taken up .
, , B ... ... i ... 0T5 , , , , \#187 ; ) " C ... ... ... .
0-165 " In other words , after lysis the addition of 0'04 c.c. of Cd has kept out 0*025 c.c. of C , whereas before lysis the addition of 0-6 c.c. of Cd ( fifteen times the amount ) has only kept out 0*015 c.c. of C. It is 1904 .
] Combining Properties of Serum-Complements , etc. 17 thus seen that a mere fraction of Cd entered into combination with the R + IB molecules before lysis .
We may add that the largest amount observed was in an experiment with rabbit 's Cd , where it came out that of 0*25 c.c. of Cd added before lysis an amount was taken up equal to 04 c.c. of Cd added after lysis .
From all these experiments it is shown that before lysis Cd has a weak affinity for R + IB molecules , and that in any given case only a fraction of the amount added enters into combination .
This result is of high importance in connection with the general question as to the action of these substances , since it implies that the action of one substance\#151 ; complement\#151 ; increases the combining affinity of another substance\#151 ; complementoid .
On the Saturation of the R+ IB Molecules with , after Lysis has occurred .
Seeing that red corpuscles treated with multiple haemolytic doses of IB take up multiple doses of C , we may produce lysis by a single dose of C , and then find whether the affinities of the remaining R + IB molecules can be satisfied with Cd .
The different stages of such experiments are ( a ) The addition of several doses of IB to the corpuscles , time being allowed for combination ; ( )Lysis by a single dose of C ; ( c ) The addition of Cd in excess ; 2 hours at 37^ C. are allowed for combination ; ( d ) The addition of about one dose of C ; 1 hour at 37 ' C. for combination ; ( e ) The addition of red corpuscles treated with IB to test for the presence of free C. ( In case the haemolytic value of C should fall during the experiment , the same amount of C as that used in ( d)should be added to a little salt solution and placed in the incubator at the same time for an hour ; its value is then tested by adding red corpuscles treated with IB .
) We can in this way test the saturating power of rabbit 's or guinea-pig 's Cd with rabbit 's or guinea-pig 's C\#151 ; four possible combinations .
A considerable number of experiments of this kind have been ' carried out , but the general result may be stated that after saturation with Cd not more than a fraction of a dose of the added C has been taken up .
Examples 1 and 2.\#151 ; Saturation with Rabbit 's Cd .
Test with Rabbit 's and Guinea-pig 's C. M.H.D. of IB = 0*002 c.c. " guinea-pig 's C = 0*045 c.c. " rabbit 's C = 0*11 c.c. ( 0*5 c.c. of suspension of red corpuscles is used , so that the doses will be half the amount .
) 5D of IB added to 4 tubes , A , B , C , D. VOL. lxxiv .
c Prof. K. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ May 17 , Lysis in all with 0*07 c.c. , rabbit 's C. 0*6 c.c. rabbit 's Cd added to each tube ; 2 hours at 37 ' C. , then add A. B. C. D. 0*065 c.c. 0-09 c.c. 0*03 c.c. 0-05 c.c. Babbit 's C. Guinea-pig 's C. 1 hour in incubator .
Add to each the test amount of red corpuscles treated with IB .
The result is that complete lysis of all the added corpuscles occurs .
This shows that at most not more than a fifth of a M.H.D. of rabbit 's C and not more than a third of a M.H.D. of guinea-pig 's C has been taken up .
3 .
Saturation with Guinea-pig 's Cd .
Test unth Guinea-pig 's C. M.H.D. of guinea-pig 's C = 0*04 c.c. ( at beginning of experiment ) , 5D of IB added to 1 c.c. corpuscles , tysis with C and addition of 0*5 c.c. of Cd , 2 hours at 37 ' C. ; 0*06 c.c. of C added , 1 hour at 37 ' C. ; red corpuscles treated with IB added , 1 hour at 37 ' C. Besult , 0-8 of the corpuscles underwent lysis , but in a control with 0-06 c.c. of C alone 0*1 remained undissolved .
Here , accordingly , not more than about a tenth of a dose of C entered into combination with the B + IB molecules .
4 .
Saturation with Guinea-pig 's Cd .
Test with Rabbit 's C. M.H.D. of guinea-pig 's C = O07 c.c. , , rabbit 's C = 0*27 c.c. Three tubes taken containing 1 c.c. suspension of red corpuscles , treated with 6 IB .
Lysis with 0*09 c.c. guinea-pig 's C ; 1 hour in incubator .
Addition of 0*5 c.c. , 0'75 c.c. and 1 c.c. of guinea-pig 's Cd to the several tubes ; 2 hours in incubator .
Addition of 0*3 c.c. rabbit 's C ; 1 hour for combination .
Addition of the test amount of corpuscles treated with IB .
Besult in the tube with 05 c.c. Cd , two-thirds of the corpuscles underwent lysis ; in the other tubes with 0*75 c.c. and 1 c.c. Cd , complete lysis took place .
Complete saturation had not occurred with 0'5 c.c. Cd , but with the other amounts it had , so that at most about a tenth of a dose of the rabbit 's C was taken up .
It is thus seen that it is possible to practically saturate with Cd the surplus B + IB molecules after lysis .
Other experiments have indicated that probably a certain amount of Cd is displaced by C added afterwards .
But the above results show that when an excess of Cd is used , the amount displaced is reduced to a trifling amount .
1904 .
] Combining Properties of Serum-Complements , etc. These results also confirm the result already obtained , namely , that in the case under consideration the haptophore groups of the rabbit 's and guinea-pig 's complements unite with the same R + IB molecules ( videsupra ) .
Conclusions .
The following are the chief results obtained from the experiments described .
It is , of course , to be understood that they are held to apply only to the cases investigated , viz. , the immune-body for ox 's corpuscles obtained from the rabbit , used along with rabbit 's and guinea-pig 's complements and complementoids .
Further observations will be necessary to determine whether they obtain generally .
( 1 ) The existence of complementoids in heated sera can be shown in ordinary test-tube experiments , by their preventing ( a ) the union of complement with anti-complement , the union of complement with R + IB molecules after lysis .
( 2 ) The amount of complementoid derived from complement , as tested by the combining relationships , varies ; in the case of the rabbit it is approximately equal to the original amount of complement ; in \#187 ; the case of the guinea-pig it is considerably less than that amount .
( 3 ) The combining affinity of complementoid , both for anti-complement and for R+IB molecules after lysis , is not much inferior to that of complement .
( 4 ) On the other hand , complementoid has a feeble affinity for R + IB molecules before lysis , i.e. , for intact red corpuscles treated with immune-body ; of the complementoid added only a small quantity enters into combination ; hence complementoid does not prevent lysis by complement .
( 5 ) When red corpuscles united with multiple doses of immune-body are lysed by a single dose of complement , the surplus R + IB molecules can be saturated with excess of complementoid , so that almost no complement can subsequently be taken up .
This result is obtained also with rabbit 's complementoid arid guinea-pig 's complement , and with guinea-pig 's complementoid and rabbit 's complement .

