Observations on the Heights of Mountains in the North of England .
By Thomas Greatorex , Esq. F.L.S. In a Letter to Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. Read May 7 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 395 .
] Wishing to measure Skiddaw geometrically , the author employed a staff about 28 feet long .
Its graduation commenced at 0 ?
0 , placed about 3 feet above its lower enrd , from which to the top was exactly 25 feet .
A stationary barometer was next placed 10 yards above the lake , and its variation and that of a thermometer were noted every half hour .
Another barometer and thermometer were then set upon the summit of the mountain , and their respective heights accurately observed .
A telescope , with cross wires , was then carefully levelled , and the wires made to intersect the highest point of the mountain .
It was then pointed in the direction of the most convenient descent , and the staff carried down the hill till its top exactly coincided with the cross wires , the level of the telescope being carefully preserved .
The perpendicularity of the staff was ascertained by plumb lines ; and as it was seldom more than 40 feet from the telescope , no allowance was necessary for the earth 's curvature .
The -most exact mode of managing the pole , says the author , was to stop my assistant when I observed its top to be about an inch above the cross wires , and then it was pressed gradually into the earth till an exact coincidence was obtained .
The telescope was then carried down to the pole , levelled and placed in exact correspondence with zero .
The pole was again carried to a new station , and this mode continued for fifty yards of descent .
The barometer was then again set up and examiined , and the process continued to the foot of the mountain .
The height of Skiddaw , by levelling , was 1012 yards 3inches .
Annexed to this paper are the results of several barometrical observations made on the summit of Skiddaw , and continued at different distances of fifty yards each down to the foot of the mountain .

