III .
" On the Posterior Lobes of the Cerebrum of the Quadrumana .
" By WILLVr T IENRY FLOWER , Esq. , F.R.C.S. , Conservator of the HIunterian Museum , Royal College of Surgeons .
Communicated by Dr. SAIARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received November 20 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) The substance of this paper is contained in one presented to the SocietyJune 20th , 1861 ( see Abstract in 'Proceedings , 'vol .
xi.p .
376 ) , with which further observations since made have been incorporated .
A more detailed description of the posterior lobes of the brain of Cereopitleecus , Iacaccus , and Cebus is given , as well as an account of the same parts in Presbytes and Ilapale .
It is shown that the brain of the last-named and that of Man , placed at the opposite ends of an extensive series , present in the posterior lobes certain well-marked common characters , but that in the Marmoset this portion of the brain is proportionally more elongated , the calcarine fissure is more deeply cut , the hippocampus minor more prominent , and the posterior cornu patent to a greater extent .
The author having had an opportunity of dissecting the brain of a Lemur in a recent condition , has substituted a description of the cerebral characters of this animal for that of the Galago previously given , which having been long preserved in spirit , was not so well adapted for the purpose .
In possessing a well-marked Sylvian fissure , a median lobe , a calcarine sulcus , and in the general character of the convolutions , the brains of members of this family are evidently formed upon the type common to the brain of Mail and the higher families of Quadrumana ; but while the gradations of this type are tolerably regular and unbroken between Homo and Hapale , the Lemurs do not follow in the same line of degradation , and should rather be placed as a small subseries parallel to the lower part of the large series , but separated from it by the shortness of the posterior lobes , large size of the olfactory bulbs , and inferior characters of the cerebellum .
A Table is added , showing the comparative length of the posterior lobes in certain Quadrumana and other Mammalia , measured upon a plan described in the paper .

