]\gt ; XIII .
Addition to Memoir on the of Elliptic Functions .
A. CAYLEY , Sadlerian Professor of fathematics in the of Cambridge .
Received February 6 , \mdash ; Read March 7 , 1878 .
I HAVE recently succeeded in completing a theory considered in my ' Memoir on Transformation of Elliptic lnctions , ' Phil. , vol. ( 1874 ) , pp. 397-456\mdash ; that of the septic transformation , .
We have here a solution of ' where ; and the ratios : : S , and the -modular equation are determined by the equations , , ; or , what is the same thing , writing ] , the first equation may be replaced by S ' and then , , S having these values , the last three equations determine and the modular equation .
If instead of we introduce , by means of the , that is , then the last equation gives ; and , S having these values , we have the residual two equations , , viz. , each of these is a quadric equation in ; hence eliminating , we have the modular eqnation ; and also linearly ) value of thence the of , S in terms of Before going further it is proper to remark that , writing as above , then if @ , we have , , and the equation of transformation becomes viz. , this belongs to the cubic transformation .
The value of in the cubic transformation was taken to be , but for the present purpose it is necessary to pay attention to an omitted double sign , and write ; this being so , S , and giving to the value , S will have its foregoing value .
And from the theory of the cubic equation , according as or , the modular equation must be , or We thus see priori , and it is easy to verify that the equations of the septic transformation are satisfied by the values , and ?
; , and ; and it hence follows that in obtaining the modular equation for the septic transformation , we shall meet with the factors .
Writing for shortness , these factors are , the factor for the proper modular equation is where [ viz. , the equation is ] , and the modular equation as obtained by the elimination from the two quadric equations in fact presents itself in the form Proceeding to the investigation , we substitute the values in the residual two equations , which thus become TRANSFORMATION OF ELLIPTIC FUNCTIONS the first of which is given p. 432 of the ' Memoir .
' Calling them we have : : \mdash ; b'c : ca'-c'a : ab ' and the result of the elimination therefore is Write as before .
In forming the expressions ca'\mdash ; c'a , \amp ; c. , to avoid fractions we must in the first instance introduce the factor , thus ; but instead of writing , the expression on the right hand side becomes divisible by ; and we find , and thence and similarly we have , ; PROFESSOR A. CAYLEY THE say these values are The required equation is thus , viz. , the function is or say it is .
Supposing that this has a factor , the form is ; and comparing coefficients we have where has the before-mentioned value ; from the first , second , and fifth equations , ; and the third and fourth equations should then be verified identically .
Writing down the coefficients of the different powers of we find , , , , , , TRANSFORMATION OF ELLIPTIC FUNCTIONb ' .
that is ; and in precisely the same way the fifth equation gives We find similarly from the equation : writing down first the coefficients of , and , the sum of these gives the coefficients of ; and then writing underneath these the coefficients of and , the final sum the coefficients of : the coefficients of each line belong to .
S6 - - 1 00 0\mdash ; 48 0\mdash ; 48 that is and in precisely the same way this value of would be found from the fourh equation .
There remains to be verified only the fourth equation that is and this can be effected without difficulty .
The factor of the modular equation thus is viz. , this is that is ; or the modular equation is ; viz. , the first and second factors belong to the cubic transformation ; and we have for the proper modular equation in the septic transformation or what is the same thing , that is , the known result ; or as it may also be written The value of is given by the foregoing relations : : ; but these can be , by virtue of the proper modular equation , , reduced into the form -riz .
, the equality of these two sets of ratios depends upon the identities , , , , which can be vel.iiied without difficulty : from the last-mentioned system of values , replacing by its value , we then have : : : : , which agree with the vahnes given p. 482 of the ' Memoir , ' and the analytical theory is thus completed .

