IX .
" On the Occurrenec of Flinit-implements , associated with the Remains of Extinct Mammalia , in Undisturbed Beds of a late Geological Period .
" By JOSEPH PRESTWICH , Esq. , FKR .
S. , F.G.S. &amp;c. Received May 26 , 1859e ( Abstract .
) The author commences by lnoticing how comparatively rare are the cases even of the alleged discovery of the remains of man or of his works in the various superficial drifts , notwithstanding the extent to which these deposits are worked ; and of these few cases so many have been disproved , that man 's non-existence on the earth until after the latest geological changes , and the extinction of the Mammoth , Tichorhine Rhinoceros , and other great mammals , had come to be considered almost in the light of an established fact .
Instances , however , have from time to time occurred to throw some doubt on this view , as the well-known cases of the humani bones founid by Dr. Schmerling in a cavern near Liege , the remnains of man , instanced by M. Marcel de Serres and others in several caverns in France , the flint-implements in Kent 's Cave , and many more .
Some uncertainty , however , has always attached to cave-evidence , from the circumstance that man has often inhabited such places at a comparatively late period , and may have disturbed the original cave-deposit ; or , after the period of his residelnce , the stalagmitic floor may have been broken up by natural causes , and the remailns above and below it may have thus become mixed together , and afterwards sealed up by a second floor of stalagmite .
Such instances of an imbedded broken stalagmitic floor are in fact known to occur ; at the same time the author does not pretend to say that this will explain all cases of intermixture in caves , but that it lessens the value of the evidence from such sources .
The subject has , however , been latterly revived , and the evidence more carefully sifted by Dr. Falconer ; and his preliminary reports on the Brixham Cave* , presented last year to the Royal Society , announcing the carefully determined occurrence of worked flints mixed indliscriminately with the bones of the extinct Cave Bear and the Rhinoceros , attracted great and general attention amongst geologists .
This remarkable discovery , and a letter written to him by Dr. Falconer on the occasion of his subsequent visit to Abbeville last autumn , instigated the author to turn his attention to other grounid , which , from the interest of its later geological phenomena alone , as described by M. Buteux in his " Esquisse Ge'ologique du Departement de la Somme , " he had long wished and intended to visit .
In 1849 M. Boucher de Perthes , President of the " Societe d'1Emulation " of Abbeville , published the first volume of a work entitled " Antiquites Celtiques et Antediluviennes , " in which he announced the important discovery of worked flints in beds of undisturbed sand and gravel containing the remains of extinct mammalia .
Although treated from an antiquarian point of view , still the statement of the geological facts by this gentleman , with good sections by M. Ravin , is perfectly clear and consistent .
Nevertheless , both in France and in England , his conclusions were generally considered erroneous ; nor has he since obtained such verification of the phenomena as to cause so unexpected a fact to be accepted by men of science .
There have , however , been some few exceptions to the general incredulity .
The late Dr. Rigollot , of Amiens , urged by M. Boucher de Perthes , not only satisfied himself of the truth of the fact , but corroborated it , in 1855 , by his " Memoir sir des Instrumenits en Silex trouves a St. Acheul .
" Some few geologists suggested further inquiry ; whilst Dr. Falconer , himself convinced by M. de Perthes ' explaniations and specimens , warmly engaged Mr. Prestwich to examine the sections .
The author , who confesses that he undertook the inquiry full of doubt , went last Easter , first to Amiens , where he found , as described by Dr. Rigollot , the gravel-beds of St. Acheul capping a low chalk-hill a mile S.E. of the city , about 100 feet above the level of the Somme , and not commnanded by any higher ground .
The following is the succession of the beds in descending order : Average thickness .
1 .
Brown brick-earth ( many old tombs and some coins ) , with an irregular bed of flint-gravel .
No organic remains .
10 to 15 ft. Divisionalplane between I and 2a very uneven and indented .
2a .
Whitish marl and sand with small chalk debris .
Land E Average thickness and freshwater shells ( Lyrnea , Succinea , Helix , Buithynia , Planorbis , Pupa , Pisidium , and incylus , all of recent species ) are comiimon , and mammalian bones and teeth are occasionally found ... ... ... ... 2 to 8 ft , 2b .
Coarse subangular flint-gravel , -white with irregnlar ochreous and ferruginous seams , -with tertiary flint pebbles and small sandstone blocks .
Remains of shells as above , in patches of sand .
Teeth and bones of the elephant , and of a species of horse , ox , and deer , -generally near base .
This bed is further remarkable for containing worked flints ( " Haches " of M. de Perthes , and " Langnes de Chat " of the workmen ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6 to 12 ft. Uneven suirface of chalk .
The flint-implements are founid in considerable numbers in 24 .
On1 his first visit , the author obtained several specimens from the workmen , but he was not successful in findinany himself .
On his arrival , however , at Abbeville , he received a message from M. Pinsard of Amiens , to whose cooperation he expresses himself much indebted , to inform him that one had been disco-vered the following day , and was left in situ for his inspection .
On returning to the spot , this time with his friend Mr. Evans , he satisfied himself that it was truly in situ , 17 feet from the surface , in undisturbed ground , and he had a photographic sketch of the section taken* , Dr. Rigollot also mentions the occurrence in the gravel of rouind pieces of hard chalk , pierced through with a hole , which lie considers were used as beads .
The author found several , and recognized in them a small fossil sponge , the Coscinopora glohularis , D'Orb .
, from the chalk , but does not feel quite satisfied about their artificial dressing .
Some specimens do certainly appear as though the hole had been enlarged and completed .
The only mammalian remains the author here obtained , were some specimens of the teeth of a horse , but whether recent or extinct , the specimens were too imperfect to determine ; and part of the tooth of an elephant ( Elephas primigenius ?
) .
In the gravel-pit of St. Roch , 1H mile distant , and on a lower level , mammalian remains are far more abundant , and include Elephas priinigenius , Rhinoceros tichorhinus , Cervus somonensis , Bos priscus , and Equus* ; but the workmen said that no worked flints were found there , although they are mentioned by Dr. Rigollot .
At Abbeville the author was much struck with the extent and beauty of M. Boucher de Perthes ' collection .
There were many forms of flints , in which he , however , failed to see traces of design or work , and which he should only consider as accidental ; but with regard to those flint-instruments termed " axes " ( " haches " ) by M. de Perthes , he entertains not the slightest doubt of their artificial make .
They are of two forms , generally from 4 to 10 inches long : the outlines of two specimens are represented in the following dia. gram .
They are very rudely imade , without any grounid surface , Fig. 2 .
Fig. 1 .
Front section .
Side section .
, Side section .
Front sectioiu .
Oe-thired the na1eiral size .
and were the work of a people probably unacquainted with the use of metals .
These implements are much rarer at Abbeville than at Amiens , fig. 1 being the commoln form at the former , and fig. 2 at the latter place .
The author was not fortunate enough to find any specimens himself ; but from the experience of M. de Perthes , and the evidence of the workmen , as well as from the condition of the specimens themselves , he is fully satisfied of the correctness of that gentleman 's opinion , that they there also occur in beds of undisturbed sand and gravel .
At Moulin Quignon , and at St. Gills , to the S.E. of Abbeville , the deposit occurs , as at St. Acheul , on the top of a low hill , and consists of a subangular , ochreous and ferruginous flint-gravel , with a few irregular seams of sand , 12 to 15 feet thick , reposing upon an uneven surface of chalk .
It contains no shells , and very few bones .
M. de Perthes states that he has found fragments of the teeth of the elephant here .
The worked flints and the bonies occur generally in the lower part of the gravel .
In the bed of gravel also on which Abbeville stauds , a number of flint-implements have beeni found , together with several teeth of the Elephas priniygenius , and , at places , fragments of freshwater shells .
The section , however , of greatest interest is that at Menchecourt , a suburb to the N.W. of Abbeville .
The deposit there is very distinict in its character ; it occurs patched on the side of a ehalk hill , which commands it to the northward ; and it slopes down under the peat-beds of the valley of the Somme to the southward .
The deposit consists , in descending order , ofAverage thickness .
1 .
A mass of brown sandy clay , with angular fragments of flints and chalk rubble .
No organic remains .
Base very irregular and irndented into bed No. 2 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 to 12 ft. 2 .
A light-coloured sandy clay ( " sable gras " of the workmen ) , analogous to the loess , containing land shells , Pupa , I-elia- , Clausilia of recent species .
Flint-axes and miammalian remains are said to occulr occasionally in this bed ... ... .
8 to 25 ft. 3 .
White sand ( " salile aigre " ) , with 1 to 2 feet of subangular flint-gravel at base .
This bed abounids in land and freshwater shells of r ecent species of the genera I-Ielix , Succinea , Cyclas , Pisidium , Valvata , Bithynia , and Planorbis , together with the marine Buccinum undalum , Cardium edule , Tellina solidula , and Purpura lapillus .
The author has also found the Cyrena consobrina and Littorina rudis .
With them are associated numrerous mammalian remains , and , it is said , flint-implemiients ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 to 6 ft , 4 .
Light-coloured sandy marl , in places very hard , with lielix , Zonzites , Succinea , and Pupa .
Not traversed ... ... 3 + The Mammalian remains enumerated by M. Buteux from this pit are , -Elephas prirnigenius , Rhinoceros tichorhinus , Cervus somonensis ?
, Cervus tarandus priscus , Ursus speleus , Iycena spelcea , Bos primigenius , Equus adamaticus , and a FIelis .
It would be essential to determine how these fossils are distributed-which occur in bed No. 2 , and which in bed No. 3 .
This has not hitherto been done .
The few marine shells occur mixed inidiscriminately with the freshwater species , chiefly amongst the flints at the base of No. 3 .
They are very friable and somewhat scarce .
It is on the top of this bed of flints that the greater number of bones are found , and also , it is said , the greater number of flint-implements .
The author , however , only saw some e long flint flakes ( considered by M. de Perthes as flint knives ) turned out of this bed in his presence , but the workmanship was not very clear or apparent ; still it was as much so as in some of the so-called flint knives from the peat-beds and barrows .
There are specimens , however , of true implements ( " baches " ) in M. de Perthes ' collection from Menehecourt ; one noticed by the author was from a depth of 5 , and another of 7 metres .
This would take them out from bed No. 1 , but would leave it uncertain whether they came from No. 2 or No. 3 .
From their general appearance , and traces of the matrix , the author would be disposed to place them in bed No. 2 , but M. de Perthes believes them to be from No. 3 ; if so , it must have been in some of the subordinate clay seams occasionally intercalated in the white sand .
Besides the concurrent testimony of all the workmen at the different pits , which the author after careful examination saw no reason to doubt , the flint-implements ( " haches " ) bear upon themselves internal evidence of the truth of M. de Perthes ' opinion .
It is a peculiarity of fractured chalk flints to become deeply and permanently stained and coloured , or to be left unchanged , according to the nature of the matrix in which they are imbedded .
In most clay beds they become outside of a bright opaque white or porcelainic ; in white calcareous or siliceous sand their fractured black surfaces remain almost unchanged ; whilst in beds of ochreous and ferruginous sands , the flints are stained of the light yellow and deep brown colours so well exhibited in the common ochreous gravel of the neighbourhood of London .
This change is the work of very loiig time , and of moisture before the opening out of the beds .
Now in looking over the large series of flint-implements in M. de Perthes ' collection , it cannot fail to strike the most casual observer that those from Menchecourt are almost always white and bright , whilst those from Moulin Quignon have a diull yellow and brown surface ; and it may be noticed that whenever ( as is often the case ) any of the matrix adheres to the flint , it is invariably of the same nature , texture , and colour as that of the respective beds themselves .
In the same way at St. Acheul , where there are beds of white and others of ochreous gravel , the flint-implements exhibit corresponding variations in colour and adhering matrix ; added to which , as the white gravel contairns chalk debris , there are portions of the gravel in which the flints are more or less coated with a film of deposited carbonate of lime ; and so it is with the flint-implements which occur in those portions of the gravel .
Further , the surface of many specimens is covered with fine dendritic markings .
Some few implements also show , like the fractured flints , traces of wear , their sharp edges being blunted .
In fact , the flint-implements form just as much a constituenit part of the gravel itself , -exhibiting the action of the same later influences and in the same force and degree .
, -as the rough mass of flinat fragments with which they are associated .
With regard to the geological age of these beds , the author refers them to those usually designated as post-plioceiie , and notices their agreement with many beds of that age in England .
The Menchecourt deposit much resembles that of Fisherton near Salisbury ; the gravel of St. Acheul is like some on the Sussex coast ; and that of Moulin Quignon resembles the gravel at East Croydon , Wandsworth Common , and many places near London .
The author eveni sees reason , from the general physical phenomena , to question whether the beds of St. Acheul and Moulin Quignon .
may not possibly be of an age one stage older than those of Menchecourt and St. Roch ; but before that point can be determined , a more extended knowledge of all the organic remainis of the several deposits is indispensable .
The author next proceeds to inquire into the causes which led to the rejection of thils and the cases before mentioned , and shows that in the case of M. de Perthes ' discovery , it was in a great degree the small size and indifferent execution of the figures and the introduction of many forms about which there might reasonably be a difference of opinion ; ^--in the case of the arrow-heads in Kent 's Cave a hidden error was merely suspected ; -and in the case of the Liege caverni he considers that the question was discussed on a false issue .
I-le therefore is of opinion that these and many similar cases require reconsiderationi ; and that not onliy may some of these prove true , but that many others , kept back by doubt or supposed error , will be forthcoming .
One very remarkable instance has already beeni brought under the author 's ootice by Mr. Evans since their return from France .
In the 13th volume of the 'Archoeologia , ' published in 1800 , is a paper by Mr. John Frere , F.R.S. and F.S.A. , entitled " An Account of Flint-Weapons discovered at iHoxne in Suffolk , " wherein that genitleman gives a section of a brick-pit in which numerous flint-implements had been found , at a depth of 11 feet , in a bed of gravel colltaining bones of some unknown animal ; and concludes from the ground being undisturbed and above the valley , that the specimens muist be of very great anitiquity , and anterior to the last changes of the surface of the country , -a very remarkable ainnouncement , hitherto overlooked .
The author at onice proceeded in search of this interesting locality , and found a section now exposed to consist offeet .
1 .
Earth and a few flints ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 2 .
Brown brick-earth , a carbonaceous seam in middle and one of gravel at base ; no organic remains .
The workmeni stated that two flint-implements ( one of which they shortly picked up in the author 's presence ) had been found about 10 feet from the surface during the last winter .
12 3 .
Grey clay , in places carlbonaceous and in others sandy , with recent land and freshwater shells ( Planorbis , Valvata , Succinea , Pisidium , Ilelix , and Cyclas ) and bones of Mammalia .
4 4 .
Small subangular flint-gravel and chalk pebbles .
212 5 .
Carbonaceous clay ( stopped by water ) ... ... . .
I+ The weapons referred to by Mr. Frere are described by him as being found abunidantly in bed No. 4 ; but at the spot where the work has now arrived , this bed is much thinner , and is not worked .
In the small trench which the author caused to be dug , he found no remainis either of weaponis or of bonies .
Ile saw , however , in the collection of Mr. T. E. Amyot , of Diss , specimenJs of the weapons , also an astragalus of the elephant from , it was supposed , this bed , and , from bed No. 3 , the teeth of a horse , closely resembling those from the elephant-bed of Brightoin .
The specimens of the weapons figured by Mr. Frere , and those now in the British Museum and elsewhere , present a singular similarity in work and shape to the more pointed forms from St. Acheul .
Onie very important fact connected with this section , is that it shows the relative age of the bone and implement-bearing beds .
They form a thin lacustrine deposit , which seems to be superimposed on the Boulder Clay , and to pass under a bed of the ochreous sanid and flint-gravel belonging to the great and latest drift-beds of the district .
The author purposely abstains for the present from all theoretical considerations , confining himself to the corroboration of the facts 1 .
That the flint-implements are the work of man .
2 .
That they were found in undisturbed ground .
3 .
That they are associated with the remainis of extinct Mammalia .
4 .
That the period was a late geological one , and anterior to the surface assuming its present outline , so far as some of its minor features are concerned .
le does not , however , consider that the facts , as they at present stand , of necessity carry back Man in past time more than they bring forward the great extinct Mammals towar(ds our own time , the evidence having referenlce only to relative and not to absolute time ; and he is of opinion that many of the later geological changes may have been sudden or of shorter duration than generally considered .
In fact , from the evidence here exhibited , and from all that he knows regarding drift phenomena generally , the author sees no reason against the conclusion that this period of Man and the extinct Mammals-supposing their contemporaneity to be provedwas brought to a sudden end by a temporary inundation of the lalud ; on the contrary , he sees much to support such a view on purely geological considerations .
The paper concludes with a letter from Mr. John Evans , F.S.A. and F.G.S. , regarding these implements from an antiquarian rather than a geological point of view , and dividing them into three classes:1 .
Flint flakes , -arrow-heads or knives .
2 .
Pointed weapons truncated at onie end , and probably lance or sp)ear heads ( fig. 2 ) .
3 .
Oval or almond-shaped implements with a cutting edge all round , possibly used as sling-stones or as axes ( fig. 1 ) .
Mr. Evains points out , that in form and workmanship those of the two last classes differed essentially from the implements of the socalled Celtic period , which are usually more or less ground and polished , and cut at the wide and not the narrow end ; and that had they been found under any circumstances , they must have been regarded as the work of some other race than the Celts , or known aboriginal tribes .
He fuilly concurs with Mr. Prestwich , that the beds of drift in which they were found were entirely undisturbed .

