463 On the Cytology of Apogamy and Apospory .
against the osmotic attraction of the dissolved salts ; while the maintenance of equilibrium along the vessels of the balanced osmotic column , with its semi-permeable partitions , demands that an equal amount of water must rise spontaneously to take the place of what is thus removed .
The subject might , perhaps , be further elucidated by observation of the manner in which the flow is first established at the beginning of the season , or possibly by experiments on the rate at which water would be absorbed by a wounded stem high above the ground .
On the Cytology of Apogamy and Apospory.\#151 ; II .
Preliminary Note on Apospory .
By Miss L. Digby .
( Communicated by Professor J. B. Farmer , F.R.S. Received April 15 , \#151 ; Read May 11 , 1905 .
) Apospory is the direct vegetative process which leads from the sporophyte to the gametophyte without the intervention of spores .
This phenomenon has for a long time been known to occur in mosses* and ferns , f and several writers have described its morphological characters , but its cytological history has hitherto remained unrecorded .
In a previous notef the cellular features of apogamy were briefly described , and it is here proposed to treat the problem of apospory in a similar manner .
The following remarks are limited to the study of apospory in Nephrodium pseudo-mas Rich .
var .
cristata apospora , Druery , S but it is of interest to note that within the limits of a ( probably ) single , but highly variable species , almost all grades of apospory and * N. Pringsheim , " Vegetative Sprossung der Moosfriichte , " 'Monatsb .
Akad .
" Wiss .
, Berlin , ' July 10 , 1876 , pp. 425 to 429 .
E. Stahl , " Ueber kunstlich hervorgerufene Protonema-bildung an dem Sporogonium der Laubmoose , " ' Bot. Zeitg .
, ' vol. 34 , 1876 , pp. 689 to 695 .
N. Pringsheim , " Ueber Sprossung der Moosfriichte und den Generationweebsel der Thallophyten , " ' Jahrb .
fiir wiss .
Bot. , ' vol. 11 , 1878 , pp. 1 to 46 .
t C. T. Druery , " Observations on a Singular Mode of Development in the Lady Fern ( Athyrium Filix-fcemina ) , " 'Jour .
Linn. Soc. Bot. , ' vol. 21 , 1884 , pp. 354 to 358 and Pp .
358 to 360 .
F. O. Bower , " Apospory and Allied Phenomena , " ' Trans. Linn. Soc. Bot. , ' 2nd series , v'f 2 , Part 14 , July , 1887 , pp. 301 to 326 .
t J. B. Farmer , J. E. S. Moore , and L. Digby , " Preliminary Note on Apogamy , " Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 71 , 1903 , pp. 453 to 457 .
S See " Lastreapseudo-mas var .
cristata a , " C. T. Druery , 'Book of British Ferns , ' p. 99 .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; B. 2 I Miss L. Digby .
[ Apr. 15 } apogamy , with the exception of true parthenogenesis , have been encountered .
Our thanks are especially due to Mr. C. T. Druery , who has kindly supplied us with the original fronds , and to the Curator of the Chelsea Physic Garden , who has most carefully cultivated the plants with excellent results .
The aposporal character of Nephrodium pseudo-mas var .
cristata apospora appears to have been first noted by Dr. F. W. Stansfield .
It occurred as a sport in a very damp fernery .
Our fronds were pegged down in pans of moist earth , and the cultures have been grown in a greenhouse kept at an average temperature of 55 ' to 60 ' Fahr. in the winter and of 65 ' to 70 ' Fahr. in the summer .
It was found that no aposporous growths appear until the fronds have been pegged down , and in each case the fronds were severed from the plant , as this was found to greatly encourage the production of the growths .
The aposporous growth is rapid and prolific ; fronds treated during the spring and summer showed prothalli , bearing embryos , in three weeks ' time .
By the autumn these young plants were sufficiently matured to have their leaves layered , and these shortly exhibited the same characteristic feature .
It is immaterial as to which surface of the frond is in contact with the soil .
So far as has been ascertained this fern remains very constant in character , and continues to breed true .
In the plants grown at Chelsea , no trace of a sporangium or sorus has appeared on any of the leaves .
The prothallial growth originates either from the surface , or more frequently from the edge ( fig. 1 ) of the frond .
It is at first discernible as a small out- biG .
1 .
Prothallial growth from apices of pinnule , p.g. , prothallial growth .
pin .
, pinnule .
1905 .
] On the Cytology of Ap and growth caused by the division both of the marginal cells of the leaf and of those cells lying immediately within the margin .
As the growth proceeds , it is clearly distinguished as a more or less continuous sheet of delicate tissue formed of somewhat rectangular cells .
In due course , owing to rapid growth at certain points , the typical prothalloid shape is assumed .
The study of many pinnules shows the apex either produced into a single prothallus ( fig. 2 ) I Fig. 2.\#151 ; Prothallus grown from tip of pinnule .
prothallus , pin .
, pinnule , v.b. , vascular bundle .
or crowned by a cluster of prothalli , or else the edge is beset with isolated groups .
The prothalli on the surface of the leaf may be closely approximated to , or independent of , the vascular tissue .
The majority of the prothalli are typically regular in shape , but irregular ones are by no means uncommon .
The regular prothalli are normal in appearance , except that they have no well-developed cushion .
Antheridia are frequently found , even wThen the prothalli are comparatively young , but archegonia have never been seen .
The prothalli generally show the presence of an embryo in various stages of growth .
It is situated in the position normally occupied by the cushion .
The irregular prothalli already alluded to vary greatly in shape , and apparently seldom bear antheridia , and never give rise to an embryo .
The principal cytological interest in the prothalli centres in the number 'f the chromosomes , and in a comparison between the prothallus and the Miss L. Digby .
[ Apr. 15 } sporophyte in this respect .
The mean of a considerable number of actual countings in the gametophvte is 43 ( fig. 3 , a , c ) .
This calculation is certainly too low owing to the difficulty of realising every individual when dealing with high numbers ; 50 is probably nearer the actual figure .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Diagrams of nuclear divisions .
in prothallus .
a ' b ' in embryo .
The embryo arises as a direct vegetative outgrowth from the prothallus , and , when very young , consists of a rounded mass of cells in which the apical cells of the cotyledon , stem and root , are clearly recognisable .
The longitudinal section of an older plant is of a normal type , except for the absence of a foot .
The nuclear divisions have been carefully worked out , and , as in the prothallus , the average number of chromosomes present at each mitosis has been taken from several countings .
The mean of the numbers obtained is 41 , but as in the case of the prothallial nuclei , this is certainly too low ( fig. 3 , a ' , bc ' ) .
The absolute number is not , however , of great importance , but the close approximation in the results of the chromosome countings of the prothallial and sporophytic nuclear divisions , undoubtedly proves that there is no reduction during the transition of the sporophyte to the gameto-phyte generation .
A similar result has been obtained in fcemina var .
clarissima Jones , where the aposporous growth is formed in relation to young but abortive sporangia* Here , however , the absence of reduction is accompanied by cytological features , indicating a transient * Bower , loc. cit. 1905 .
] On the Cytology of Apogamy and Apospory .
condition characteristic of an earlier phase of the heterotypical mitosis , which may throw some light on the anomaly .
A discussion of these results will appear in the final memoir .
It is interesting to note that Professor Strasburger has placed a similar interpretation on the phenomenon of apogamy in Eualchemilla*which was first described byMurbeck .
Here , too , there is no reduction either in the formation of the embryo sac or of the ovum , the latter giving rise , without fertilisation , to the apogamously formed embryo .
The prothalli of the two apogamous varieties , Nephrodium pseudo-mas Rich , var .
polydactyla Wills , and Nephr odium pseudo-mas Rich .
var .
apospora Druery , exhibit two striking differences .
Whereas in the former nearly all the prothalli , except very young ones , have a strand of vascular tissue extending throughout the greater part of their length , in the latter only two cases of feebly-developed tracheides have been seen .
Again , in Nephrodium pseudo-mas var .
polydactyla , migrating nuclei , some of which have been seen to fuse , are a characteristic feature.f Out of a large number of prothalli it was found that about 73 per cent , of the young ones exhibit phases of nuclei passing from one cell to another .
As this fern produces fertile spores , it is almost certain ( it is hoped shortly to settle this point ) that there is a true reduction during the division of the spore mother cells , the doubled number characterising the sporophyte is apparently brought about by the migration and fusion of prothallial nuclei .
In Nephrodium pseudo-mas var .
cristata apospora , out of 80 prothalli examined , only two showed possible cases of nuclear migration , and these were open to doubt as regards their interpretation .
The reason for the absence of fusion in other cases is obvious , for the prothalli of Nephrodium pseudo-mas var .
cristata apospora , as we have seen , already possess the full complement of somatic chromosomes .
Hence there is no need for the fusion of two nuclei which , by their union , double the number of chromosomes .
I am deeply indebted to Professor J. Bretland Farmer , and to Mr. J. E. S Moore for their constant help and advice .
Professor Farmer has most kindly allowed me to use his material , and has superintended the work throughout .
* E. Strasburger , " Die Apogamie der Eualchimillen , " 1 Jahrb .
fur wiss .
Bot. , ' Leipzig , vol. 41 , 1904 , pp. 88 to 164 , PI .
I to IY .
t Farmer , Moore , and Digby , loc. cit.

