]\gt ; Some Results in the Theory of By A. L. DIXON , M.A. , Fellow of Merton College , Oxford .
Communicated by Prof. Love , F.R.S. Received May 1 , \mdash ; Read May 27 , 1909 .
) In two recent papers , have given expressions , in the form of determinants , for the eliminants ( i ) of two quantics in one variable and ( ii ) of three quantics in two variables .
My present purpose is to show how from these expressions may be derived others which give the eliminants as a sum of terms .
In the case of two quantics , , each of the decree in one variable , I obtained the result APffi , where is the pure etiminant , is a determinant of order , whose elements are denoted by , where is written for , , , being two sets of arbitrary quantities , and A and denote respectively the determinants whose rows are and 1 , , This is easy to prove , for if we write , it is well known that , according to Cayley 's statement of Bezout 's method , one form of is the determinant whose elements , and if we multiply this determinant successively by A and we get the determinant For three quantics in two variables ( and for quantics in variables ) an expression analogous to Bezout 's determinant may be obtained for the eliminant of , , , if these are all of the form , where are the same for all three quantics , This form I denote by saying that are of degree in , and in For , consider the function given by The determinant on the right-hand side is obviously divisible by and , so that is of degree in , and in , and of degree in , and in Also obviously vanishes if is a common root of 'Procedings of the London Mathematical Society , ' ser. 2 , vol. 6 , pp. 468\mdash ; 478 , and vol. 7 , pp. 49\mdash ; 69 .
, whatever value we give to .
Thus the coefficients of for all values of !
and will all vanish for a common root , and we derive from equations in and , the number of terms in each being .
also 2 From these equations we can at once write down the eliminant as a determinant of order , whose elements are the coefficients of ?
in , and being the same for any row , and and ?
the same for .any column .
From this we may derive , by multiplication , the result where is pure eliminant in the form just obtained , is a determinant of order whose elements are , , ; , two sets of of arbitrary quantities , and denote respectively the determinants whose rows are and , the terms that occur .
those of and of respectively .
To obtain corresponding results for three quantics of the ordinary : standard form , we take equations derived from by to zero the coefficients of for , and add to these [ or equations by multiplying by for or , thus obtaining a determinant of order , and by suitable modifications it is possible to adapt this method to quantics of diHerent drees .
My present object is to obtain the eliminant of three quantics of the ordinary standard form of degree , as a sum of products , at a time , of various values of , and in order to make the process , and also for the sake of the result obtained , I by finding the corresponding 'expression for the eliminant of two quantics in one variable .
If in and I change the variable from to , the result of eliminating between and , considered as functions of , will obviously be the square of the eliminant of and .
Thus the 'equation already obtained may be written for this case being a determinant of order whose elements are .
In this , as the 's and 's are arbitrary quantities , we may put Some Resutts in the Theory of Elimination .
for all values of , and we obviously get , so that is now a skew symmetrical determinant , whilst A and are identical .
But the expression for the square root of a skew symmetrical determinant is a known formula , so that , using this formula , and putting , where , are arbitrary quantities , I get AE , 2 [ , 4 ] [ 5 , 6 ] A being the product of the differences of the To obtain a similar result for the eliminant of three quantics , , , of the ordinary standard form , of degree , make the substitution .
When this is done , the new functions .
are of the form , and their eliminant is the square of the eliminant of the original quantics , since there is correspondence .
Thus the formula already obtained may be written where the numbers of pairs of quantities and is , and is the kGerminant order whose elements , given by If in this we put for all values of , result is a skew symmetrical determinant , and , taking the square root , we have , 2 [ 3 , , 6 where is , as defined above , that is , and is the determinant whose row is A curious corollaly is the expansion of itself in the form , whele , which is at once obtained by taking all of the form

