]\gt ; 1873 .
] On an Erroneous Extension of Jacobi 's Theorem .
II .
' Note on an Erroneous Extension of Theorem By TODHUNTER , M.A. , F.R.S. Received October 25 , 1 .
It is well that Jttcobi ered the possibility of the relntis equilibrilun of mass of homogeneous fluid hich is in the form of ellipsoid and rofates uniform nguhr velocity round the least cipal axis .
A days since , in reading over for the press a miLnuscript which had beeu ritten last year , I observed I had tion to the circumstance that such relntive equilibrium old be impossible if the ellipsoid lotated round any other straight line .
Ahuost vards I was accidentally glancing for he first tin1e the el treatise on Mechanics published in by Dr. chell , nnder th ' , title of ' ' Theory der der \ldquo ; of Jacobi 's theorem .
Dr. Schell records Jacobi to the of his theolem by reason of all by Pontecoulant , that suoh a resuIt ible ; Jncobi took th , as he , b.y virtue of " " spirit of diction hich he his most crics \ldquo ; ( see OG6 of Dr. ( { chell 's volume ) .
It should be remarked , , that as to the Pontecouhnt nlerely 2 .
I much surprised to find that on the same page Dr. Schell the -ing assertion:\mdash ; " " It has been lately by nder that the reIative ilibrium of the rotating ellipsoid subsist hen the axis of rotation docs coincide a pliIlcipal axis of the ] soid A reference is ) to memoir by nder i 's ' Anmalen , ' .
cxxix .
) p. 443 .
Ulding this tion of authority the is 3 .
I assumc thnt hell a : of fluid is ith velocity Jund a hxed axis , the problem of determining the pressurc of the fluid and the of the free surface may be changed from a micaI form to a statical in the mamler : Suppose the tion stopped , and supply at every an accelerntion right angleb to the axis nrds from the equal to here is the angular and is the of the from axis of .
This bc easily demonstrated , and is , ill fact , vays t for grnllted on the subject .
4 .
I confine myself for inphcity to the case which the axis of rotation passes through { celltle of the ellipsoid ; but it } easily seen that the process is ) heu fhis is nof filled .
uppose that an ellipsoid , of hich the , rotntes bout a diameter which with the princip111 ngles hosc direction cosines .
Take for the eqnation to the ellipsoid ( 1 ) On an Erroneous Extension of Theorem .
[ Jan. 16 , Let denote the centre of the ellipsoid , any point of the mass whose coordinates are the point where the from on the axis of meets that axis .
Let be the coordinates of N. Then the acceleration , when resolved parallel to the axes , gives rise to the components respectively .
We must now determine We know that MON ; hence OM MON , that is .
Denote this by ; then have The attractions of the ellipsoid at parallel to the axes will be respectively ; where are certain constants , in the form of definite integrals , which depend on the ratios of the axes of the ellipsoid .
Hence if denote the pressure , and the density of the fluid , we have Therefore the form of the free surface will be determined by the equation constant .
( 2 ) By supposition , ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) must represent the same surface .
But this is obviously impossible , unless two out of the three vanish .
Thus the axis of rotation must coincide with one of the principal axes ; and then it follows in the known way that this must be the least principal axis .
5 .
Now let us turn to the memoir by Dahlander in Poggendorffs ' Annalen .
' The process is this .
Dahlander supposes that there are three simultaneous angular velocities , round the axes of respectively ; and then he assumes the equation This equation , however , is .
Dahlander does not say how he obtained it , so that it is impossible to point out exactly where his error lies .
the equation was supposed to hold in virtue of some unwarranted extension of the princip ] in article 3 .
To show that the equation is rong , it is sufhcient to observe that it makes involve only the 1873 .
] On a supposed Alteration in the Aberration of Light .
121 valiable.x ; but the three angular velocities are ivaleJlt to a single angular velocity , and then , as we see article 4 , we shall have .
mvolving 6 .
The which Dahlander discusses is in much ] it amounts to this : in estigate the conditions lder hich a ) fluid ill be in equilibrium in the of an ellipsoid , ) , besides the attraction of the , there are forces parallel to the axes , hich may be denoted by races of such a problem appear in other , for exalnple , in tique , is , vever , different f'rom the problem of il hich it wns proposed to discuss . .
There is uothin to call for in the ork of the memoir , except a wrong value is to the deiiuite integral The correct value is oCtober 2 III .
Additional Note to the Paper On a supposed Alteration in the Amount of Astronomical ) erration of Light produced by the of the Light through a considcrable of Medium By the .
Received November 2 , 1872 .
months sinco , ( fo the Roy.al ) { he result of ou mndc the ) the cxprcsbl.y for the of the coellioieut of sidereal hethel .
the ) of escopc be filled ifh , as ustlaJ , or ) the spring nnll oimilar ations hat been mnde the spring ltnlnn of now place before the ociefy the colleetrd nlts .
lt -ill bc bered , from the ation i the former the of results for the ]atitude of rily proves the of the coefficient of ployed in 1871 .
Spring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Autumn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
) 1872 .
kSpring . . . . . . . . .
5128 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I propose , lvhen the risk of frost shall have passed , to reverify the scale of the micrometer , and theu to dismount the VOL. XXI .

