93 1890 .
] A Bacteria-killing Globulin .
and in which the friction is reduced to a minimum , the mercury column appears to acquire a certain momentum , so that the statement in ( 3 ) no longer applies , and the instrument is not dead beat in its action .
It may , however , be made so by the introduction of a sufficiently large resistance .
There is also another form of overshooting , due to the elasticity of the meniscus itself , the effect of which upon the curve is distinct , and different .
Both these forms of error are rare .
( c. ) Variations of Resistance during an Excursion.\#151 ; The principal seat of the internal resistance of the capillary electrometer being the slender column of dilute acid in the tube , the length of which varies with the movement of the meniscus , it is evident that the total resistance must vary during an excursion .
The effect of this variation of resistance may be detected in excursions of considerable extent , and the amount of it measured .
I have found that the error due to this cause is seldom more in practice than one per cent. The method of applying these corrections , together with a description of the apparatus employed , and a discussion of the points of theory involved , I hope to publish at no distant date .
The investigations of which the results are given above were made in the Physiological Laboratory , Oxford , the resources of which were placed at my disposal for the purpose by Professor Burdon Sanderson .
V. " A Bacteria-killing Globulin .
" By E. H. HANKIN , B.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge , Junior George Henry Lewes Student .
Communicated by Professor Roy , F.R.S. ( From the Pathological Laboratory , Cambridge .
) Received May 21 , 1890 .
The results described in the present paper were arrived at by the author while trying to discover the nature of the substance to which the bacteria-killing powers of the blood serum were due.* The results obtained by hTuttall , f Buchner , J and hTissenS have shown that the blood serum , independently of any cellular elements , has a certain power of killing bacteria .
The method used by these * * * S * My work was aided by grants from the British .
Medical Association and from the John Lucas Walker Fund .
t " Experiments liber die bakterienfeindlichen Einfliisse des thierischen Korpers , " ' Zeitschrift fur Hygiene , ' vol. 4 , 1888 , p. 353 .
t " Ueber die bakterientodtende Wirkung des zellenfreien Blutserums , " ' Central-blatt fur Bakteriologie und Parasitenkunde , ' vol. 5 , p. 817 , and vol. 6 , p. 1 , 1889 .
S " Sir Kenntniss der bakterienvernichtenden Eigenschaf t des Elutes , " * Zeitschrift fur Hygiene , ' vol. 6 , 1889 , p. 487 .
Mr. E , H. Hankin .
[ May 22 , authors , and which I have applied to this research , is to mix a small quantity of a culture with a few cubic centimeters of blood serum .
A drop of this serrim is immediately taken , and a gelatine plate culture made with it .
Again , at intervals varying from a half to twenty-four hours , plate cultures are made containing drops of the serum .
The first plate culture serves as control .
The number of colonies that appear in it is observed .
A progressively decreasing number of colonies will be found in the succeeding plate cultures , owing to the gradual decrease in the number of bacilli that remain in a living condition in the blood serum .
A curious point about this property of blood serum is that it vanishes in the act of killing the microbes .
That is to say , a given quantity of blood serum can only kill a limited number of microbes .
If the number of microbes added to the serum is beyond this limit , the survivors find the blood serum to be an excellent food medium , and , after a time , begin to grow and reproduce .
This fact , together with the comparatively low temperature ( six hours ' heating to 52 ' or half an hour 's heating to 55 ' ) at which the bacteria-killing power vanishes , has led some of the above-quoted authors to ascribe it to a " sort of ferment-like activity .
" Buchner* found that the bacteria-killing power vanished on dialysing the serum into distilled water , not , however , if it was dialysed into 75 per cent , sodium chloride solution which had been brought to the same degree of alkalinity as the serum .
From this and other facts , Buchner is brought to believe that the property in question is connected with the intactness of " Hageli 's hypothetical Micellae " present in the serum , and is due to a residuum of the " life " possessed by the plasma from which it is derived .
Surely , an equally obvious conclusion would be that it was connected with the presence of some unknown globulin , which , like other globulins , is only soluble in dilute salt solutions , and , therefore , would be precipitated after dialysing into water , and remain in solution on dialysing into physiological salt solution .
The experiments of Lubarschf have shown that this power practically does not exist in the living blood plasma ; consequently ( on the hypothesis that it is due to some specific germicide ) , it must be due to a substance present in blood serum absent from the plasma .
Further , the above-mentioned observations suggest that it is due to a substance of the nature of a ferment .
Can it be fibrin ferment ?
The facts that a bacteria-killing power is possessed by peptone plasma , but not by magnesium sulphate plasma , are not in complete disaccord with this suggestion .
A * I. OC .
cit. .f " Ueber die bakterienvernichtenden Eigenschaften des Elutes und ill re Beziehungen zur Immunitat , " ' Centralblatt fur Bakteriologie und Parasitenkunde , ' vol. 6 , 1889 , p. 528 .
1890 .
] .A Bacteria-killing Globulin .
watery solution of fibrin ferment loses its power of coagulating blood when heated to 75 ' .
When , however , fibrin ferment is dissolved in serum it is destroyed , according to Halliburton , * at a temperature somewhere between 50 ' and 60 ' , which agrees with the temperature at which Buchner found the bacteria-killing power of serum to vanish .
On testing the effect on anthrax bacilli of a solution of fibrin ferment by the above-described method , I occasionally found a gradual diminution in the numbers of the bacilli , but , even in the most successful experiment , it was so small as to come well within the limits of experimental error .
For instance , in one experiment , the control plate showed 175 colonies .
A plate culture made half-an-hour later showed 40 colonies , and the plate culture made one hour after mixture showed 111 colonies .
Thus my results , though of themselves too few to decide this matter , agree with those of Buchner , who also found that fibrin ferment has no bacteria-killing power .
Can the substance in question be some other ferment , absent from the plasma and present in the serum , possibly owing to the breaking down of white blood-corpuscles ?
Halliburton has recently succeeded in extracting from the leucocytes of lymphatic glands a globulin which he believes to be fibrin ferment , or else inseparably connected with it .
The power of causing blood to clot , the temperature at which it loses this property , and its solubilities in different salt solutions agree perfectly with what is known of fibrin ferment .
In fact , the only respect in which it differs from fibrin ferment is that it always responds to the general , proteid reactions ; while Lea and Green have obtained solutions , apparently of fibrin ferment , which caused blood to clot rapidly , but which responded not even to the most delicate tests for proteids .
The following experiments show that it has the power of killing anthrax bacilli , a power which , as yet , cannot be ascribed to fibrin ferment , Methods Employed.\#151 ; The lymphatic glands of an animal ( cat or dog ) are cut out , finely chopped up , and extracted with \#151 ; th saturated sodium sulphate for twenty-four hours .
The liquid is then filtered , and precipitated by the addition of several times its volume of alcohol .
The precipitate consists chiefly of Halliburton 's cell globulin-/ 3 , for the other proteids of lymph cells ( cell globulin and nucleo-albumen ) are only extracted in small quantities by the sodium sulphate solution.f-The precipitate is kept under alcohol till required .
It settles to the * " On the Nature of Fibrin-ferment , " * Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 9 , 1888 , p. 229 ; and " On the Coagulation of the Blood , " Roy , Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , 1888 , p. 255 .
T I learnt this in a verbal communication from Dr. Halliburton .
I shall in the rest of my paper refer to Halliburton 's cell globulin-/ ?
as cell globulin , or simply globulin .
Mr. E. H. Hankin .
[ May 22 , bottom of the vessel , and , before using it , the superabundant spirit is poured off .
The bottle is then shaken , and 5 to 10 c.c , of the turbid liquid is poured out and filtered .
The precipitate remaining on the filter paper is washed with distilled water and then extracted with about 15 c.c. of a -j^th saturated sodium sulphate solution .
In other cases it was at once extracted with 75 per cent , sodium chloride , or with distilled water , the adherent salt enabling the precipitated globulin to dissolve .
Always the distilled water or other solvent employed had been previously carefully sterilised .
Only a very small part of the coagulated mass of proteids was redissolved , the solution containing the ferment-like cell globulin , while probably the other proteids present were permanently coagulated by the action of the alcohol .
To the solution thus obtained a small quantity of anthrax culture is added .
The culture is generally in bouillon and not more than twenty-four hours old .
Before being added it has been violently shaken in order to separate and break up the filaments .
As soon as the anthrax bacilli have been added to the globulin solution and shaken so as to distribute them uniformly through the liquid , a sample of the latter is taken , and with it a gelatine culture ( which serves as control ) is made .
This sample is not taken out with a platinum wire , but with a capillary pipette .
A kink is made in the pipette about 3 inches from the end , and while removing samples of the liquid care is taken that it should in each case be filled exactly to the kink .
In this way , as the same pipette is used throughout each experiment , it is easy to abstract exactly the same quantity of liquid each time.* As soon as the pipette has been emptied into the gelatine , the end that has been used is placed in a test tube plugged with sterilised cotton-wool and containing sterilised normal salt solution .
This is immediately boiled for a few minutes .
Since the young culture of anthrax employed contains no spores , the pipette can be thus easily sterilised .
During the experiment the globulin solution is kept at a temperature of 37 ' .
The following table shows some of my experiments in a tabular form:\#151 ; * A separate pipette was used to inoculate the globulin solution with anthrax .
VOL. XLV Number of colonies in plate cultures .
No. of experiment .
Gfiobulin dissolved in :\#151 ; i. Control made 1 immediately after inoculation .
2 .
Made after \ an hour .
3 .
I After 1 hour .
4 .
After 2 hours .
5 .
After 3 hours .
I. a. Dilute sodium sulphate ( = ^th saturated solution ) . .
3962 1022 \#151 ; 366 \#151 ; h. Distilled water made faintly alkaline with KOH 44 24 1 ~ in .
a. Dilute sodium sulphate after washing with distilled 6256 \#151 ; 1330 \#151 ; \#151 ; water .
hi Same solution as in a , but diluted with 0'75 NaCl About 7000 \#151 ; 953 \#151 ; solution .
IV .
a. Globulin extracted with 0 75 NaCl solution 2079 457 \#151 ; 30 0 1 b. Ditto diluted 10 times .
868 494 535 After 24 hrs .
V. a. Globulin twice precipitated by alcohol , then dissolved 14,798 22* \#151 ; 0 0 in 0*75 NaCl solution .
b. In dilute Na^SC^ solution after washing precipitated 1174 12* \#151 ; 0 1 globulin with water VII .
a. Globulin from spleen of dog extracted with distilled 2269 317 water .
b. Ditto boiled for 10 minutes 3078 3543 c. Globulin from lymphatic glands of same animal 657 222 J | I 1 * Colonies retarded in growth .
^ 1890 .
] A Bacteria-killing Globuli\ 98 Mr. E. H. Hankin .
[ May 22 , ' From this table it is obvious that a decrease took place in the number of living bacilli present in the samples that , were successively taken from the globulin solution .
That is to say , the bacilli were gradually killed until in some experiments ( as shown by the plate cultures remaining sterile ) no survivors were left .
In these cases the gelatine was , after a few days , inoculated with anthrax , when it always produced a copious growth , showing that the result was in no way due to any imperfection in the gelatine employed .
That the destruction was not due to sodium sulphate or other salts present is shown by Experiment VII , for here the liquid is seen to lose its bacteria-killing power by being simply boiled , a treatment capable of destroying the globulin but not the salts .
In other cases the globulin solution was boiled after the plate cultures had been inoculated from it .
Then it was re-inoculated with anthrax with or without addition of a small quantity of bouillon , and always produced atypical growth .
In Experiment VII , after two days , the test tubes containing the solutions B and 0 were found to contain anthrax growths , the one in C being somewhat scanty .
Solution A , however , had remained sterile , all the bacilli in it having been killed .
Then , without previous boiling or any other treatment , it was inoculated with anthrax spores , and in twenty-four hours had produced a copious growth .
This proves conclusively that the destruction of bacilli that had taken place was due to a similar cause to that which is operative in the Analogous experiments with blood serum .
For Lubarsch* has pointed out that , although the serum is capable of killing the bacilli added to it , the spores ( of anthrax ) not only are unharmed by it , but immediately begin to develop , producing a crop of bacilli , which seem to have acquired tolerance against the bacteria-killing power of the medium .
It is interesting to notice that , as .
shown in Experiment VII , the cell globulin obtained from the spleen was more energetic in killing bacteria than that derived from lymphatic glands .
In this experiment the spleen and the lymphatic glands wore taken from the same dog , left under alcohol for the same time ( twenty-four hours ) , and otherwise subjected to exactly similar treatment .
In Experiment V the globulin was derived from the lymphatic glands and spleen of a cat , which were chopped up and extracted together .
Here the bacteria-killing action was morp energetic than in the previous experiments .
I generally noticed that the bacteria-killing power is less , the longer the globulin is kept under alcohol , which agrees with Halliburton 's assertion , f that by very prolonged action of alcohol the cell globulin is rendered permanently insoluble , as is the case with other proteids .
* Loc .
cit. .f " On the Nature of the Fibrin Ferment , " ' Proceedings of Physiological Society , ' 1888 ( in 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 9 ) .
2390 .
] d Bacteria-killingGlobulin .
I have as yet made no systematic observations on the degenerative appearances that anthrax bacilli may show when subjected to the action of cell globulin .
On one occasion , however , I found that the bacilli , twenty-four hours after being added to a dilute cell globulin solution , had broken up into extremely short segments .
Czaplewski** found a similar change to occur as a stage in the degeneration of virulent anthrax bacilli when injected into pigeons , which were naturally immune against this disease , and Gamaleiaf met with a like mode of degeneration during the " vaccinal " fever which follows the inoculation of attenuated anthrax into rabbits or sheep .
My experiments on the effects of injections of cell globulin intf\gt ; animals before or after anthrax infection in modifyirig the course of the disease , though entirely of a preliminary nature , are of some interest .
The cell globulin was not prepared by the above-described method , but the sodium sulphate extract was dialysed to remove the excess of the salt , and heated to 50 ' or 51 ' for half-an-hour to coagulate any traces of cell globulin-at or nucleo-albumen that might be present .
J A few cubic Centimeters of a solution thus prepared were injected into the lateral ear vein of a rabbit , which , either at the same time or on the day before , had been inoculated with anthrax .
The results were extremely variable , and showed no relation to the quantity of cell globulin employed .
In some cases no effect was produced , the animal dying in the same time as , or even before , the control .
S In other caSfes the animal lived two or three days longer , and showed slight diarrhoea .
In such cases the spleen was nearly always greatly enlarged .
The bacilli were generally in long chains ( consisting of occasionally twenty or thirty joints ) , as is usually the case after inoculation with attenuated anthrax .
' Sometimes , however , they appeared to be exceptionally short .
Further , a large number of phagocytes ( macrophages ) , containing bacilli in different stages of degeneration , could be seen .
In the control animal phagocytes containing bacilli could but rarely be found .
Fig. 1 shows the temperature chart of three rabbits , of which two ( A and B ) received a succession of doses of cell globulin .
The three rabbits were very young , and did not weigh more than 400 grams each ; C was the control , and died in thirty-six hours .
A and B showed well-marked diarrhoea forty-eight hours after inoculation , and died after ninety * " Ueber die Immunitiit der Tauben gegen Milzbrand , " ' Konigsberg Dies .
Inaug .
, ' 1889 .
t " Sir la Destruction des Microbes dans les Corps des Animaux febricitants , " ' Annals de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' 1889 , p. 229 .
J " Report of a Committee consisting of Professors Schafer ( secretary ) , Foster , and Lankester , and Dr. W. B. Halliburton , appointed for the purpose of investigating the physiology of the lymphatic system " ( ' Brit. Assoc. Rep. , ' 1888 , p. 363 ) .
S In these experiments , the control rabbit nearly always died within thirty-six hours .
A Bacteria-killing .
[ May 22 , Fig. I. three and ninety-nine hours respectively .
The spleen of A contained rather few bacilli , either isolated or arranged in chains , which were never longer than are occasionally met with in control rabbits after simple inoculation with anthrax .
In the lymph gland near the seat of inoculation , however , they were often found in much longer chains , or arranged in thiek clusters .
Of these chains , individual joints often were swollen up or refused to take the stain .
The bacilli in B exhibited precisely similar appearances , but the chains of bacilli were somewhat longer , occasionally consisting of twenty-seven or twenty-eight joints .
In another series of experiments the rabbits were infected by intravenous injection of the blood of a rabbit dead of virulent anthrax and diluted with normal salt solution .
Before or after this treatment , 5-\#151 ; 10 c.c. of cell globulin solution were injected intravenously .
After infection in this way the control rabbit died in twelve to eighteen hours .
The rabbits treated with the globulin occasionally lived for a few hours longer , more often died at about the same time as the control .
The chains of bacilli in the spleen sometimes exhibited a Presents .
1890 .
] curious appearance .
They were surrounded by a transparent sheath , which was thickened at each junction between each two neighbouring bacilli .
The chain of bacilli could be compared to a bamboo in which the nodes are swollen to nearly twice the diameter of the rest of the stick .
A precisely similar appearance has been described and figured by Petruschky.* He found that anthrax bacilli undergo this change , which he regards as degenerative , when placed under the skin of frogs for several hours .
Gamaleiaf describes a somewhat similar condition as occasionally happening to anthrax vaccina in different organs of sheep and rabbits during the " vaccinal fever .
" The above-described experiments would seem to lead to the following conclusions\#151 ; * 1 .
That Halliburton 's cell globulin-^ possesses a bacteria-killing power .
2 .
That this power appears to distinguish it from fibrin ferment .
3 ; That this bacteria-killing power is of the same nature as that possessed by blood serum , as described by Buchner , Nissen , and Nuttall .
4 .
That this power of the serum is probably due to the same or some allied substance .
5 .
That , inasmuch as it is possible to obtain from cells that are , or can become , phagocytes a substance having bacteria-killing powers , we may suppose that phagocytes can not only kill microbes that they have ingested , but also do this , or tend to do this , by breaking down and liberating their contents .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , June 5th .
Presents , May 22 , 1890 .
Transactions .
Baltimore '.\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Studies ( Historical and Political Science ) .
Eighth Series .
No. 4 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1890 .
The University .
Bordeaux:\#151 ; Socfete de M4decine et de Chirnrgie .
Memoires et Bulletins .
1889 .
Fasc .
1\#151 ; 2 .
8vo .
Bordeaux .
The Society .
Soci6t6 des Sciences Physiques et Natnrelles .
M^moires Ser. 8 .
Tome IV .
Tome V. Cahier 1 .
8VOv Bordeaux Die Eitiwirkimgen des lebendeii Froachkbrpera suf dten Milzbrandbacillua , " ' Zeitaehrift fftr Hygiene/ vol. 7 , 1889 , p. 75 .
t Loc .
c it .

