XXIII .
" On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in Motion."-Part IV .
By J. P. JOULE , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Professor W. TIIOMISON , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1862 .
( Abstract ) .
A brief notice of some of the experiments contained in this paper has already appeared in the 'Proceedings .
' Their object was to ascertain with accuracy the lowering of temperature , in atmospheric air and other gases , which takes place on passing them through a porous plug from a state of high to one of low pressure .
Various pressures were employed , with the result ( indicated by the authors in their Part II .
) that the thermal effect is approximately proportional to the difference of pressure on the two sides of the plug .
The experiments were also tried at various temperatures , ranging from 5 ?
to 98 ?
Cent. , and have shown that the thermal effect , if one of cooling , is approximately proportional to the inverse square of the absolute temperature .
Thus , for example , the refrigeration at the freezing temperature is about twice that at 100 ?
Cent. In the case of hydrogen , the reverse phenomenon of a rise of temperature on passing through the plug was observed , the rise being doubled in quantity when the temperature of the gas was raised to 100 ? .
This result is conformable with the experiments of Regnault , who found that hydrogen , unlike other gases , has its elasticity increased more rapidly than in the inverse ratio of the volume .
The authors have also made numerous experiments with mixtures of gases , the remarkable result being that the thermal effect ( cooling ) of the compound gas is less than it would be if the gases after mixture retained in integrity the physical characters they possessed while in a pure state .
XXIV .
" On the Spectra of Electric Light , as modified by the Nature of the Electrodes and the Media of Discharge .
" By the Rev. T. R. ROBINSON , D.D. , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after referring briefly to the researches of previous inquirers , and the hypothesis now generally adopted , that the bright lines observed in these spectra depend so absolutely on the chemical nature of the substances present that their occurrence is an unerring test of that presence , expresses his belief that it cannot be admitted in its full extent without much more decisive proof than has yet been afforded .
It assumes , 1 .
That each substance has a set of lines peculiar to itself .
2 .
That those lines are not produced or modified by any molecular agent except heat .
3 .
That the spectrum of one substance is in nowise modified by the presence of another ; and in such cases both spectra coexist independently , and are merely superposed .
4 .
As may be inferred from 2 , that electricity does not make matter luminous directly , but only by heating it ; so that the electric spectrum differs in nothing from that produced by heat of sufficient intensity .
I-lis attention was directed to this subject several years ago by the difference of colour of discharges in carbonic oxide at common and diminished pressure ; and the results of his experiments appear to show that none of these four points is universally true .
His apparatus consisted of a powerful induction machine , with which a Leyden jar was connected ; of prisms , first one of 45 ?
, afterwards one of 60 ?
( whose deviations were reduced to the scale of the first ) ; and of an optical theodolite , in which a collimator with a variable slit gives the beam whose spectrum is observed .
He points out an important defect of this arrangement , and discusses the probable liabilities to error proceeding from the graduation reading only to minutes , and from other sources of uncertainty .
The media of discharge were air , nitrogen , oxygen , hydrogen , and carbonic oxide , to which were added in some instances the vapours of mercury , phosphorus , and bisulphuret of carbon .
For electrodes , 23 metals and graphite were used-15 with each of the five gases at common pressure and at one of 0 ?
'2 , the others only with some of them .
In all , 185 different spectra were measured , of which 93 were at common pressure .
At common pressure the spectra show a number of bright lines on a coloured ground , the light of which is in general stronger towards the red than the violet end , and strongest in the green .
In some this ground is so bright as to efface all but the most luminous lines : this is especially the case with hydrogen .
Of the lines , some are very brilliant ; but they range in light down to the very lowest degree of faintness , such that ( at least with the author 's apparatus ) they can only be seen when the room is entirely dark , and are bisected with great difficulty .
They vary also in width , from a mere hair 's breadth to six or seven times the apparent width of the slit .
On exhausting the tube in which the discharge is made , at first the only change is that the brilliant lines lose a little of their lustre , till at pressures varying from 3 ?
to 0 ?
'5 the spectrum rather suddenly fades away , sometimes leaving only a suspicion of one or two lines ; with others the least-refrangible rays vanish , while the violet remain , though very faint , especially with aluminium .
In hydrogen spectra the three bright bands of this gas vanish at unequal densities ; and it is remarkable that this occurs when the gas is diluted to the same proportions by mixing air with it .
Exhausting yet further , this transition spectrum becomes again bright ; fresh lines appear , and it is changed into a new one , which , however , is never as splendid as that at common pressure , especially at the red end , and in which the very brilliant lines are less frequent .
This want makes the difference between the two kinds of spectra seem greater than it really is .
Fewer lines are visible in the rarefied media , and of these about four-tenths are not found in the spectra of common pressure .
If the tables in which the measures are given be examined in reference to the points alluded to as doubtful , it will be obvious , 1 .
That many lines are found in all the gases , and in many , perhaps all the metals : the existence of such lines must be independent of the chemical nature of electrodes or media ; it is otherwise with their brightness , which may be intense with one substance and feeble with another .
This unchemical origin is still more clearly shown by a modified experiment of Pliicker , where the discharge is made by the induction of glass without the presence of any metal .
When the same glass vessel was filled in succession with nitrogen , oxygen , and hydrogen , though not above twenty-three lines were seen in its capillary tube , and those very faint , yet more than half the number were common to two of the gases , or to the three .
These might perhaps be referred to soda or lead detached from the glass ; but some of them are not found in those spectra .
2 .
The difference between the common-pressure , transition , and rarefied spectrum shows that the character and even the existence of certain lines depend on the mere density of the medium , the chemical circumstances remaining unchanged .
3 .
That the spectra are not merely superposed without change is evident from several facts .
The spectra of air do not in every case show all the lines of oxygen and nitrogen , and occasionally have some not visible in either of them : the spectrum of graphite in oxygen is quite different from those of carbonic oxide .
There is even reason to believe that for certain lines the actions of bodies may be antagonistic .
The spectrum of mercury electrodes and mercury vapour showed 48 lines , and the author expected that the spectra for any gas with mercury electrodes would add to those of mercury the peculiar lines of that gas , which could thus be certainly determined .
In the nitrogen spectrum , however , 20 of the mercurial lines had disappeared , in the hydrogen 18 , and in the carbonic oxide 13 .
4 .
The brilliancy or visibility of the lines is very little increased by greatly augmenting the heating power of the discharge .
The two halves of the induction machine can be made to act either consecutively for tension , or collaterally for quantity .
In the latter case the quantity is doubled , and therefore the heating power quadrupled .
When the apparatus is so used , the violet bands are somethingbrighter , but not so much so as to be noticed by an unpractised observer .
The red and green show no appreciable difference ; but the author is inclined to think the change may be greater in the ultra-violet part .
HIe proposes , however , to repeat the experiment with coils of much greater power as to quantity .
If electricity can produce thermic vibrations by its transmission , there seems no apriori reason why it cannot produce luminous ones ; and no evidence that it cannot is known to him .
It seems to follow from these observations that the tendency to show such lines belongs to matter in general , but that different forms of it have different powers of manifesting that tendency , and that those powers may sometimes interfere .
If this be confirmed by further research , the result will be that , though the electric spectrum may give useful indications to the analyst , it should never be his sole dependence , or be trusted without full cognisance of the conditions which may affect its indications .

