X. " On the Distal Communication of the Blood-vessels with the Lymphatics ; and on a Diaplasmatic System of Vessels .
" By THIOMAS ALBERT CARTER , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , Physician to the Leamington Hospital and Warwick Dispensary .
Communicated by W , S. SAVORY , Esq. Received June 2 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author has recorded the results at which he has arrived concerning the distal intercomm-uLnication of the bkemal with the lymphatic system by means of injectionis thrown into blood-vessels ; he also describes certain minlute vessels and networks of vessels which can be shown by the same means to exist in certain mucous membranes and elsewhere .
These he has named diaplasmatics .
Tue auithor 's attention was first particularly called to the relation which the lymphatics bear to the blood-vessels , by observing that when the latter are fully distended with a very penetrating inijection , such injection often finds its way into the lymphatics without the occurrence of ordiniary extravasation .
Ile has thus injected the livers of three human beings and of three pigs from the portal and hepatic vessels , the former ( vessels ) being filled with Turnbull 's blue precipitated in gelatine , and the latter with carmine similtrly treated ; and in each inistance he has founid that the injection had gained entrance to the superficial lympliatics .
Ili sections takenfrom the surface of the pig 's liver , these vessels ( which may readily be distilnguLished from the blood-vessels by their knotted irregular appearance and ra)id increase and diminiution in size ) are observed in maniy instances to sturrouniid a lobutle , thirowing ouit loops and prolongations towards its centre .
A certaini number of these prolongations , both in the humani liver and in the pig 's , when traced are seen to diminish in size so much as to be considerably less in diameter than the capillaries of the organi , in which they appear to lose themselves or rather originate .
Their coinmencements in this part , it is acknowledge , ed , are extremely difficult to determine by simple inspection , on account of the underlying capillaries being filled with inijection of the same colour ; but in some instances ( as , e. y. , where the pigment in the capillaries has faded ) the author believes that he has seen the actual aniastomoses of the two sets of vessels .
The eircumstance , however , which renders exact miiicroseopic observation so very difficult , is the one which affords the best evidence of the communication of the two systems , viz. that the minutest lymphatics are almost invariably filled with injection of the particular tinit seen in the capillaries in close relation to them .
Thus if the capillaries be red or blue , or any of the intermediate shades of purple , the smallest lymphatics in the immediate neighbourhood will be of a precisely similar colour ; which would appear distinictly to show whence the lymphatics derive their supply of fluid .
A human thyroid body which the author injected with carmine and gelatine from the blood-vessels , also exhibited a phenomenon similar to that observed in the organs just mentioned .
Sections taken from this gland and examined with the 4-inch objective , showed that from the capillaries are given off fine processes which break up into a network amonig the cell-elements of the vesicles , and , furthermore , that this network is in communication with the lymphatics which lie in the intervesicular parts of the gland .
In addition to this , however , there are communications between the capillaries and lymphatics in the stroma itself .
The processes which emerge from the capillaries in the stroma of the thyroid as well as in the fibrous tissues of other parts , such as the membrana nictitans of the cat , bear a very strong resemblance to connective-tissue corpuscles ; and such the author considers them to be in these parts .
But as these tubular processes can be shown by injection to form a plexus in the retina ( cat ) , to be connected with the nuclei of the capillaries , the corpuscles of bone ( perch and mouse ) , and the fusiform bodies found among the fibrillae of muscle ( frog ) , as well as with the cells of connective tissue and its modifications , it has appeared that the whole of these structures belong to one system of vessels .
This system the author has named , provisionally at least , " Diaplasmatic , " because , on account of the extreme minuteness of its channels , it can only allow of the passage of the liquor sanguinis .
To designate the whole of these minute vessels lymplhatics would , he considers , at the present time be somewhat premature , because those of muscular fibre and of bones , and others which will be mentioned immediately , have not been observed to join recognizable lymphatic trunks ; and moreover it would seem by no means improbable that some of them may both com. mence and terminate in the blood-vessels , thus constituting what might be styled an intercapillary plexus ; or they may even have a triple connexion , viz. with the arterial capillaries , the lymphatics , and with the venous capillaries or the veins .
The position in which the diaplasmatic network may be most readily demonstrated , both with and without injection , is in the mucous membrane of the palate of the frog or toad .
In this part , when the viscid mucus and the ciliated epitheliurn have been removed , there may be seen with the '-inch objective , a very minute granular nucleated network , in each mesh of which is placed a globular nucleated cell .
The membrane consists , therefore , of three layers-of a superficial ciliated layer , next of a granular nucleated plasmatic network , and lower still of a basement layer of globular nucleated cells .
The processes of the middle granular plexus extend not only in the horizontal direction , but also upwards between the ciliated cells , and downwards between those of the basement layer , where they become continuous with the blood-vessels lying in the fibrous tissue beneath .
This connexion with the blood-vessels , the author says , he has been able to make out by means of injection in the palate and oesophagus of the i'rog and toad , as well as in the mucous membrane of the eyelid of the latter animal .
Ee has also demonstrated by injection that a network similar to the one just described is present in the web-membrane of the pectoral fin of the perch .
The lung of the toad also exhibits a modification of the plasmatic network in the form of extremely fine hollow prDcesses , which either stretch completely across the mesh from capillary to capillary , or terminate in finely pointed or blunt extremities among the epithelia or nuclei which stud the membrane of the air-vesicle .
In the proper epithelial portion of the skin of batrachians or of mammals , the author has not yet been able to prove distinctly that the plexuses are to be found , but he has been so far successful in this direction as to have displayed them satisfactorily in the follicles and bulbs of the whisker hairs of the mole , mouse , and kitten .
From certain observations , however , which cannot here be detailed , he thinks it more than probable , not only that plasma-networks are present in the epithelial layer of the batrachian skin , but also in a corresponding part of the human cutis .
I With regard to the offices performed by these networks , the author thinks it probable that all those found in the epidermal or mucous tissues are intimately connected with the function of secretion , and in a minor degree also perhaps with that of absorption ; while those situated in the deeper parts of the organism , such as muscle and fibrous tissue , are employed in conveying blood-plasma to , and effete matters from , the tissues through which they pass or with which they may be in contact .

