145 Further Researches on the Temperature Classification of Stars .
No. 2 .
By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , Hon. LL.13 .
( Glasgow ) , Hon. Sc. D. ( Camb .
) , F.RS .
( Received February 13 , 1905 , \#151 ; Read March 2 , 1905 .
) [ Plate 3 .
] CONTENTS .
PAGE 1 .
Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 145 2 .
Object of the Present Research ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
145 3 .
Order of Procedure ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
146 4 .
Results ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
147 5 .
Discussion of Photographs ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
147 6 .
General Remarks ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
150 7 .
Conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
151 8 .
Description of Plate ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 151 1 .
Introduction .
In a previous paper * discussing the photographs of stellar spectra taken with the calcite prismatic camera , I showed that the variation of the position of maximum intensity , when we dealt with the various genera of stars , corresponded with the temperature change\#151 ; including in that term the possible results of electrical energy f\#151 ; suggested by the Chemical Classification .
2 .
Object of the Present Research .
Obviously the next test to apply to the temperature curve based upon the Chemical Classification was to compare , under similar conditions , the relative temperatures of those genera placed on the same temperature horizon but on * 4 Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' vol. 73 , pp. 227\#151 ; 238 , 1904 .
t In reference to the possible effects of the variation of electrical conditions , I wish to point out that , whilst employing the general term " temperature variation , " I have always made a reservation for the inclusion of possible electrical effects .
I take this opportunity of emphasising this " caveat " because I find that in his f Handbucli der Spectroscopic , ' Professor Kayser states ( see vol. 2 , p. 275 ) that I have always only considered temperature effects .
His exact words are \lt ; c spricht Lockyer immer nur von einem Einfluss der Xemperatur , fiber welche wir beim Funken nichts wissen .
" This is certainly not in accordance with my published statements , for more than 30 years ago , whilst discussing the dissociation effects of increasing " temperature , " I especially mentioned ( see 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 22 , p. 372 , section 2 , June , 1874 ) that the action of electricity must be included in the term " temperature , " and I have , on many occasions , repeated this statement .
Sir Norman Lockyer .
[ Feb. 13 , the opposite sides of the curve , since the chemical evidence indicated that , while there are differences in the conditions of absorption in such genera , their temperatures are approximately the same.* 3 .
Order of Procedure .
This second test has now been applied to the Chemical Classification with the results given below .
The peculiar difficulties of a research of this kind were enumerated in the former paper , but they were increased in the present case by the restriction of the number of combinations possible when the selection of suitable pairs of stars for comparison was confined to the same temperature horizon .
The following table shows the number of pairs on each horizon available for comparison , and also the number which has been dealt with in each case .
Table I. Horizon .
Types .
Number of pairs readily comparable throughout the year .
Number of pairs photographed .
8 Crucian-Achernian 2 1 7 Taurian-Algolian 2 1 6 Rigelian-Markabian 4 1 3 Polarian-Procyonian 9 6 2 Aldebarian-Arcturian 16 4 Although the Argonian ( Stage 10 ) and Alnitamian ( Stage 9 ) groups , from their position at the apex of the curve , offer no comparisons , their spectra should show them to be nearly alike .
As there is no Argonian star in the northern hemisphere , with the possible exception of A Cephei , which Mrs. Fleming has recently found to be identical in its spectrum with \#163 ; Puppis , f but which is too faint to be photographed with the present instrument , this point has not been tested .
The Cygnian ( Stage 5 ) and Sirian ( Stage 4 ) groups * The existence of such a difference in the absorbing conditions was pointed out by me from theoretical considerations in 1887 ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 146 ) , but Professor E. C. Pickering was the first to demonstrate its actual presence .
In the " Spectra of Bright Stars " ( ' Harvard College Observatory Annals , ' vol. 28 , Part I , p. 5 ) he found it necessary when classifying the spectra to divide them into two classes according to the relative widths of the hydrogen and metallic lines .
f " Harvard College Observatory ' Circulars , " No. 92 .
On the Temperature Classification of Stars .
have no analogues on the opposite sides of the curve , and cannot , therefore , enter into the present discussion , whilst the Piscian stars ( Stage 1 , descending are both too faint to be available with the present camera , and therefore the lowest stage ( the Antarian-Piscian ) cannot be considered .
Long periods of bad observing weather have greatly hindered the work .
4 .
Results .
A brief description of each of the negatives discussed is given in Table II .
It will be remarked from the seventh column that the same make of plates has not been used throughout , but , as each pair of spectra compared are on the same plate , and have , therefore , been subjected to exactly the same treatment in development , etc. , this can in no way affect the results .
On the publication of the former paper Sir William Abney kindly sent me two plates especially sensitised for the red end of the spectrum , and a number of exposures was made , under test conditions , with several different makes of plates , in order to obtain , if possible , a greater length of spectrum at the red end .
5 .
Discussion of Photographs .
In no case among the present photographs has the variation of the position of greatest intensity in any pair been found so marked as the variations recorded in the previous paper .
A detailed discussion of each negative follows .
Stage 8 .
Negative 65 ( See No. I , Plate 3 ) 7 Cassiopeia ; ( Cruc .
, ascending)\#151 ; e Cassio-peise ( Achern .
, descending ) .
As a result of relatively shorter exposure , the spectrum of e is very slightly weaker throughout .
The bright lines in 7 are very faint , too faint to show on the enlarged reproduction , but the measurement of their positions on the negative relative to the lines in the e spectrum , shows that on the reproduction ( No. 1 , Plate 3 ) they will be 0'25 of an inch nearer the right hand side of the plate .
Notwithstanding a relatively sudden decrease of intensity in the spectrum of e at the more refrangible end of the hydrogen series\#151 ; whereas the spectrum of 7 fades gradually to extinction\#151 ; both spectra extend to about the same distance into the ultra-violet and their red portions are equally intense .
Note.\#151 ; There is evidence for assuming that the presence of bright hydrogen in 7 Cassiopeia ; does not materially affect the absolute extension of the spectrum into the ultra-violet .
This point will be dealt with in a subsequent \#166 ; communication .
Table II .
Catalogue number of negative .
Date .
Star .
Type .
Stage .
A = ascending .
D = descending .
Altitude .
Plate used .
65 1.10.04 y Cassiopeiae Crucian 8 A o 68 Cadett * Achernian 8 D 64 " Spectrum " 71 11.11.04 rj Tauri Algolian 40 s " Taurian 7 A 38 68 8.10.04 a Andromedae Markabian 56 P Tauri Rigelian 6 A 57 60 3.9.04 P Cassiopeiae Procyonian 3 D 77 Edwards 's a Persei Polarian ** A 79 " Isochromatie " 62 9.9.04 P Draconis Polarian o A 63 P Cassiopeiae Procyonian 3 D 71 64 19.9.04 *1 Cassiopeiae Procyonian 3 D 76 Cadett a Persei Polarian 3 A 87 " Spectrum " 67 3.10.04 7 Cygni Polarian o A 71 P Cassiopeiae Procyonian 3 I ) 74 74 12.1.05 a Persei Polarian Q A 38 a Canis Minor Procyonian 3 D 32 46 21.7.04 7 Draconis Aldebarian 9 A 68 Edwards 's s Arcturian 2 D 67 66 Isochromatic " 72 7.12.04 a Arietis Arcturian 9 D 57 Cadett a Tauri Aldebarian 2 A 55 " Spectrum " 00 Description .
e very slightly weaker throughout with stronger absorption beyond the hydrogen series ; no evidence for any difference of temperature .
Mixed up with other Pleiades spectra , \#163 ; weaker throughout , but no indications of temperature difference .
Exactly similar as regards extension into the red and ultra-violet : both extend far beyond the end of the hydrogen series .
Equally exposed : extended equally into both red and ultra-violet .
P Draconis less exposed and , therefore , weaker throughout , but the reduction of intensity is equal at both ends .
yj Cassiopeise fainter throughout the whole spectrum , but extends practically as far into the ultra-violet .
Almost identical intensities throughout the entire length of the spectrum .
Exj:\gt ; osures approximately equal .
Red extensions equally intense .
Both spectra extend equally far into the ultra-violet , but that of a Persei shows a sudden decrease of intensity at the end of the hydrogen series .
Spectra both faint but of about equal intensity in Gr to D region , 5 , however , extends a little further into the ultra-violet .
a Tauri slightly stronger in red and blue regions but extends no further into the ultra-violet .
GO M * O p p o o pr a [ Feb. 13 , 1905 .
] On the Temperature Classification of Stars .
Stage 7 .
Negative 71 , \#163 ; Tauri ( Taur .
, ascending)\#151 ; Tauri ( Algol .
, descending).\#151 ; The comparison in this case is rendered somewhat difficult owing to the superposition of the spectra of the other Pleiades stars , whilst that of ( Alcyone ) was being photographed .
Unfortunately the spectrum of \#163 ; is partially covered by that of Maia , and , owing to relative under-exposure , is weaker , than that of g throughout the whole length .
Notwithstanding this latter fact , a close examination reveals no inversion of intensity , such as is given by stars of different temperature horizons , in either the red or the ultra-violet ends of the spectra .
It may be remarked here that this negative shows the temperature conditions obtaining in each of the Pleiades stars , Atlas\#151 ; Pleione , Alcyone , Maia and Electro to be about the same .
Stage 6 .
Negative 68 ( No. 2 , Plate 3 ) , a Andronredae ( Mark .
, descending)\#151 ; ft Tauri ( Kig .
, ascending).\#151 ; We find both spectra extending equally far into the ultraviolet , and the closest inspection does not bring to light the slightest difference in the red portions .
Stage 3 .
Negative 60 ( No. 3 , Plate 3 ) , ft Cassiopeiae ( Proc. , descending)\#151 ; a Persei ( Pol .
, ascending).\#151 ; The relative exposures on these two stars were equal , and the extensions of the spectra into the ultra-violet show no perceptible difference .
A very slight difference does exist , however , between their intensities in the red portions , that of the Polarian star being very slightly the stronger .
Negative 62 , ft Draconis ( Pol .
, ascending)\#151 ; ft Cassiopeiae ( Proc. , descending ) .
\#151 ; Whilst the spectrum of ft Draconis is fainter throughout , the relative intensities of similar radiations in the two spectra vary together , thereby indicating an equality of temperature conditions in the two stars .
Negative 64 , g Cassiopeiae ( Proc. , descending)\#151 ; a Persei ( Pol .
, ascending).\#151 ; In this case the spectra extend equally far into the ultra-violet , although that of gCassiopeiae is fainter in the violet , blue , and red regions .
The difference is slight but points to a probable , very small , superiority of temperature for the Procyonian star .
Negative 67 , 7 Cygni ( Pol .
, ascending)\#151 ; ft Cassiopeiae ( Proc. , descending).\#151 ; The two spectra are about equally bright in the \#151 ; H6 region , but that of 7 Cygni is slightly brighter in the orange-red and does not extend quite so far into the ultra-violet , again showing a slight superiority of temperature for the Procyonian star .
150 Sir Norman Lockyer .
[ Feb. 13 , A slight overlap of the spectra on this negative renders the comparison somewhat uncertain .
Negative 74 , a Persei ( Pol .
, ascending)\#151 ; a CanisMinoris ( Proc. , descending ) .
\#151 ; The exposures on this negative are nearly equal , and the intensities in the orange-red are the same .
Although the spectrum of a Persei shows a sudden decrease in intensity at the end of the hydrogen series , it extends very nearly as far into the ultra-violet as does that of Procyon .
On this negative the ultra-violet extremities of the two spectra are the same distance from the end of the plate but , as may be seen from the relative positions of the H and K lines , the spectrum of a Persei should be shifted bodily a small distance to the right , thus rendering its absolute extension into the ultra-violet a little less than that of Procyon .
Stage 2 .
Negative 46 , y Draconis ( Aid .
, ascending)\#151 ; Draconis ( Arct. , descending ) .
Both spectra are faint , and , as we should expect , neither extends very far beyond K into the ultra-violet .
The intensities between Hp and He are approximately equal , but the spectrum of y Draconis is slightly stronger in the red and does not extend quite so far into the ultra-violet .
Negative 72 ( No. 4 , Plate 3 ) a Arietis ( Arct. , descending)\#151 ; a Tauri ( Aid .
, ascending ) .
Very good spectra although rather faint .
The detached orange-red section and the portion between and Hy in the spectrum of Alde-baran are slightly stronger than the corresponding parts of the a Arietis .spectrum , but the latter extends quite as far , or even a little farther , into the ultra-violet , thereby indicating a slightly higher temperature for the Arcturian star .
6 .
General Remarks .
It must be noted that the slight differences existing between some of the pairs of spectra discussed are only specific , and are not comparable with the generic differences cited in the previous paper .
For instance , if we compare the photograph shown on No. 3 , Plate 3 of the present paper\#151 ; and this shows as great a difference as any disclosed during this research\#151 ; with the first photograph ( No. 1 , Plate 7 ) of the previous paper , * we see at once that in the present case there is no indication of the absolute inversion of intensity between the red and ultra-violet ends of the two spectra , such as is shown on the former photograph .
The differences must , at the most , be considered as indicating the existence of species within the limits of the genera proposed in the Chemical Classification , and as justifying the " caveat " entered when discussing the terms of that classification , f # Loc .
cit. f 'Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 65 , p. 191 , 1899 .
Stage 8 .
V CASSIOPE1AE ' ( CRUC : ASC : ) \#163 ; CASSiOPEIAE ( ACHERN : DESC : ) STAGE 6 .
OC ANDROMEDAE ( MARK : DESC : ) / 3 TAURI ( RIG : ASC .
) STAGE 3 .
CASSIOPEIAE ( PROC : DESC : ) OC PERSEI ( POL : ASC : ) STAGE OC ARIETIS ( ARCT : DESC : ) OC TAURI ( ALD : ASC : ) CO Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. a 76 , 1905 .
] On the Temperature Classification of .
These photographs also indicate , very clearly in some cases , the existence of the different conditions in the absorbing atmospheres of those stars placed on equal horizons , but on the opposite arms of the temperature curve , such as was suggested in former papers .
For example , in the spectrum of a Persei ( Polarian , stage 3 , ascending ) there is a very abrupt decrease of the general intensity of the spectrum at the end of the hydrogen series , whilst in the spectrum of Procyon ( Procyonian , stage 3 , descending ) , which extends to about the same distance in the ultra-violet , the decrease of intensity is gradual throughout .
This point will be discussed further in a subsequent communication .
7 Conclusions .
( 1 ) The present results affirm the equality of temperature of those genera placed at equal heights on , but on the opposite sides of , the temperature curve suggested by the Chemical Classification .
( 2 ) The suggestion that the " genera " resulting from the Chemical Classification would require a subdivision into " species , " is shown by the present results to be correct .
( 3 ) The photographs obtained during the present research prove the existence of different absorbing conditions in the atmospheres of those stars which are equal in temperature but were placed on the opposite arms of the temperature curve .
My best thanks are due to Messrs. W. E. Eolston and H. E. Goodson , who have secured the photographs discussed in the present paper , to the former for assisting in the preparation of the paper , and to Mr. Wilkie , who has prepared the enlargements shown on the accompanying plate .
8 .
Description of Plate .
No. No. of negative .
Stars .
Type .
Stage .
1 65 y Cassiopeise Crucian ~l o f Ascending " " Achernian J 1_ Descending 1 g f Descending J \Ascending 1 o f Descending J Ascending 1 9 J Descending j *J \ Ascending 2 68 a Andromedse Markabian f3Tauri Eigelian Procyonian Polarian 3 60 / 3Cassiopeise a Persei 4 72 a Arietis Arcturian a Tauri Aldebarian The original negatives have been enlarged 3-8 times in making the reproductions .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; A. M

