]\gt ; Power of Alcohol , Ether , Chlorojorm , etc. 545 .
No differences have been detected between the hexosephosphoric acids their salts , whether derived from glucose , fructose , or mannose .
6 .
On hydrolysis of the acid by boiling , phosphoric acid is set free and fructose formed .
No other hexose could be identified , but the solution , after hydrolysis , was always less laevorotatory than a solution of pure fructose of the same power .
7 .
The salts of lead , ) arium , silver , and calcium have been prepared .
[ The compound containing phosphorus , which was considered to be phenylhydrazine phosphate , has since been examined by von Lebedew ( ' Biochem. Zeits 1909 , vol. , p. 113 ) , who regards it as a phenyl hydrazido-phosphoric acid compound of hexosazone .
A re-examination of this substance by the author leads to the conclusion that it is in reality a derivative of hexosephosphoric acid , but decisive results as to its constitution have not yet been obtained .
, 1909 .
The Comparative Power of Alcohol , Ether , as measured by Action Isolated By AUGUSTUS D. WALLER , M.D. , F.P.S. Received Read Junc The object of the following communication is twofold : ( 1 ) to prescnt the results of a careful comparison of the physiological effectiveness of certain narcotics , and ( 2 ) to illustrate the degree of accuracy of which such comparisons are susceptible by the systematic use of the sartorius muscle of the frog as an indicator .
Method.\mdash ; The two sal.torius muscles of a frog are dissected out and the portions of bone to which they are attached arc with fine copper wires serving as conductol .
S. The muscles set up in the two vessels and connected with two myographic levers that record their movements on two smoked plates .
The connections with t coil of inductorium ( Berne model ) are as given in the , so that both muscles traversed in series by the same current in same direction .
The muscles are directly excited once every 10 bGcollds by maximal break induction shocks .
Each observation consists of three : a first part consisting of the normal responses of the nltsclc ersed in normal saline ( per 100 in tap water ) ; a second pal'st1l of the responses while the muscle is immersed in an experimental solution ; a third parf Dr. A. D. Waller .
Comparative Power of [ June 24 , consisting of the responses while the muscle is replaced in normal saline .
The solutions are changed by being run off through a tap and run in from a pipette , care taken that the volume of fluid is always the same .
The induction currents are kept going automatically throughout an experiment , excepting during the short periods required for changing the solution .
The apparatus used for this purpose consists of : ( 1 ) a Berne coil fed by a -volt accumulator ; ( 2 ) a Brodie clock with interruptions set at six per minute ; and 3 ) a relay key , .
that shown G. .
Mines at the July , , meeting of the Physiological Society .
As a of procedure in any comparison between the effects upoIl two muscles and of two solutions A and , a first comparison is made between the effects of A on and of on , and a second comparison of the effects of on and of A on R. Each complete experiment thus comprises two pairs of simultaneous trials of two solutions in reversed order of action , and constitutes an in the strict sense of the telm .
Electrical excitation of the muscles while immersed in the experimental solutions\mdash ; in spite of the fact that the induction currents are in large measure short-circuited by the solution\mdash ; was systematically adopted in preference to excitation of the muscle after the solutions had been run off , because it affords a more complete picture of the gradual effects of such solutions .
Currents of sufficient strength are taken to give maximal tion in spite of the derivation .
Double Myograph to test Action of Substances in Solution .
diameter of the muscle vessel was less than cm .
, so that 30 .
of fluid gave in it a column about 5 cm .
long , more than sufficient to keep the mnscle wholly immersed .
1909 .
] Alcohol Ether , and Chloroform , etc. The exciting currents passed through the muscle and solution\mdash ; principally through the former by reason of the ) wires by which it is attached\mdash ; are taken of such as to give assuredly maximal efl'ects .
Their direction is not a matter of indifference , the contractions being always unequal to the two directions of excitation ; as a rule , but not always , the more effective direction was from to pelvic end , and this was therefore taken as the ordinary direction of exciting currents .
But this is not a very essential point , all that is really necessary is to keep to one direction experiment .
Unpolarisable elect , rodes are also unnecessary , as , indeed , may be readily seen from the records obtained .
The magnification of contraction by the lever was ( From Octobel 9 ouwards I used narrower muscle tubes , in order to nse up less fluid for each bath , and to have a reater density of current through the immersed muscle .
) Alterations of current distribution caused by alterations of resistance of the experimental fluids , : the oligodynamic action attributable to the use of copper wire ; small differences of room temperature ; the possible excitation of intramuscular nerve as well as of the muscle itself , are the principal circumstances that have been considered and recognised to be negligible in the present co1mection .
On the other hand , every care has been taken secure constant strength of stimulation and constant pressure of the myographic levers against the recording surfaces , which are moved past the levers in tandem by the same clockwork .
The influence of considerable diffelences of temperature was specially examined .
By preliminary experiments it was found that convenielltly graded upon muscular excitability were produced by a 5 per 100 solution of alcohol , by a 1 per 100 solution of ether , and by a 1 per 1000 solution of ( by volume in each case ) .
These trengths are of the order of molecular ( .
per 100 ) in the case of alcohol , decimolecular ( per 100 ) in that of ethel , and centimolecnlal ( per 1000 ) in that of chloroform .
ereafter solutious were made up a molecular scale , as stalldard of reference a molecular solution of absolute alcohol , and the tirst of comparison a decimolecular solution of ether a centilnolecular solution of chloroform as tabulated below .
Dr. A. D. Waller .
Comparative of [ June 24 , omparisons were systematically made ( 1 ) between alcohol and chlorobetween alcohol and ether ; and ( 3 ) between ether and chloroform .
Such comparisons were , whenever possible , made upon the same muscle , preliminary experiments having shown that two or more successive intoxications , if not too profound , by the same strength of solution , are of equal ravity .
The principal indication of the comparative effects of reagents consists in the rate at which the contractility is abolished in solutions ( in per cent. in tap water ) of various strengths .
The rate and amount of return of contractility in per cent. affords eonfirmatory eyidence , of which , however , we have not made systematic use , having done no more than note the facts : ( 1 ) that at equal times of immersion the time required for recovery augments with angmented strength of solution , and ( 2 ) that at equal of solution the required for recovery ents with augmented time of immersion .
Comparisons may be established between : the effects of two solutions upon the same muscle successively ; or between the effects of two solutions upon two muscles simultaneously ; and each kind of comparison has its own obvious and disadvantage .
By the method we have adopted of simultaneously the contractions of two muscles in series , we secure the advantage of both plans , and minimise the disadvantage of successive comparison by reyersing the solutions on the two muscles .
Other obvious of the double method are that we get double the number of observations , and that we can readily tell whether an accidental irregularity is due to the stimulus or to the muscle or to the solution .
We may also compare the effects of different solutions upon different muscles , but in such comparisons from muscle to muscle we must take care that the conditions of observation are , as far as possible , identical .
We may not , e.cJ , compare fresh with stale muscle , nor muscles reatly unequal bulk , nor muscles taken from healthy and unhealthy frogs , nor results obtained at different temperatures .
, comparisons of this order are practically available , for under similar conditions the results of experiment with a given solution are closely similar upon different muscles ; the " " crasies \ldquo ; of different rouscles are not a very disturbing factor , although , as might be expected , effects are more rapidly produced with very small than with very muscles .
The two chief fallacies in their order of importance are : ( 1 ) a variation in length of the coltunn of fluid , and ( 2 ) a considerable variation of temperature .
As regards the column of fluid , it is evident that this must be kept of constant length during an observation , since the fluid forms a derivation circuit 1909 .
] Alcohol Ether , Chloroform , etc. surrounding the muscle , which is traversed by only a small fraction of current .
The effect of varying the of column is easily shown by adding or taking away fluid while a series of contractions is in ress .
I have , therefore , always been careful to replace fluids by pipette as exactly as possible .
If , as has sometimes happened , the difference of excitability and contraction in two muscles has been grossly even more so than in the case of the pair of muscles used for the record of fig. have it permissible to adjust the tubes in their holders upwards or downwards so as to alter the current lines in suitable degree .
But once fixed in position , the tubes must not be shifted ; the level of fluid must be kept unaltered throughout experiment .
Differences of resistance between different fluids are in most cases of little moment , e.g. a cubic centimetre of chloroform does not the resistance of a litre of saline enough to influence the e current traversing the muscle .
In some cases , however , differences of resistance be such as to affect the current distribution and the response of the muscle , a 10-percent .
solution of alcohol in saline has an appreciably higher resistance than saline alone .
It may be objected to the method that excitation is not restricted to the muscular substance , but includes intramuscular nerve tissues .
To meet this objection I compared the effects on fully curarised and on uncurarised muscle , and found that they were tJuishable .
This fact , however , is of little , inasmuch as immersion in normal saline is of itself sufficient to remove the effect of curarisation .
But , on reflection , the objection itself is of little .
As is well known , the direct excitability of lscle outlasts its indirect excitability nerve ; loss of all contractility is of necessity loss of direct excitability , and whatever ) be said as to the of an observation , there can be no doubt that at its cnd we with muscle and muscle only ; even the of an ation , siltce we are using a of current more than to cite nscle ; as nve , the contraction must be by direct excitation ; and eveu if it were not , if it by direct excitation the co1lpsrative resuIts action acquired .
To use as a tcst ob , excitation 01 uLhe 1 of nerve nlusclc1 preparation of conrse , bc a different , by } the specially under vould ) the .
Tu minimal of contl ctio would be method , by which at first direct c later ility ) bc investigated .
I avoided ) these ) ) follow the nlethod described uecansc ) it is more and nous VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; B. Dr. A. D. Waller .
Power 1909 .
] Alcohol Ether , Chloroform , etc. in its results .
I felt justified in making this choice by the results of experiments made many years ago on direct and indirect excitability , and on the junction between nerve and muscle .
* 0 . .
2.\mdash ; August 21 , 1908 .
Effect of Solution at Strengths of and cent. volume ) .
\mdash ; FIG. 3.\mdash ; August 20 , 1908 .
)veen the Efi.ects of Chloroform in 1/ 1000 and 1/ 2000 dilution alive ( and and of Ether in 1/ 100 dilution .
In oform 1/ 1000 ontrartility is abolished in 5 minutes .
1/ 2000 , , , , 12 , ' Experiments Observations to the Process ( Fatigtle Recovery First itish Metlical 'July , ; Second R , ' itish Medical Journal , ' July , the hent connection the ) of the iuvestigation ( carried out during my tenure of a rehearch to the Medical Association ) was to the effect that the junction nerve is a weak link in the -muscnlar chain , being to i11 its mittiltg function in fatigue ( by indirect excitation ) in intoxications ation in pathological degeneration .
Dr. A. D. Waller .
Comparative Power oj [ June 24 , I. Alcohol .
Chloroform .
Minutss .
to 5 In normal saline 5 to 10 ution , mlnutes .
10 to 19 In normal { 19 to 24 solutioncontractility l in 3 minutes .
24 to 34 In no ] saline Minutss .
to 5 In normal saline 5 to 10 ution , mlnutes .
10 to 19 In normal { 19 to 24 solutioncontractility l in 3 minutes .
24 to 34 In no ] saline Minutss .
to 5 In normal saline 5 to 10 ution , mlnutes .
10 to 19 In normal { 19 to 24 solutioncontractility l in 3 minutes .
24 to 34 In no ] saline Minutss .
Left .
to 5 In normal saline 5 to 10 ution , mlnutes .
10 to 19 In normal { 19 to 24 solutioncontractility l in 3 minutes .
24 to 34 In no ] saline Minutss .
Left .
to 5 In normal saline 5 to 10 ution , mlnutes .
10 to 19 In normal { 19 to 24 solutioncontractility l in 3 minutes .
24 to 34 In no ] saline Minutss .
Left .
to 5 In normal saline 5 to 10 ution , mlnutes .
10 to 19 In normal { 19 to 24 solutioncontractility l in 3 minutes .
24 to 34 In no ] saline Minutss .
Left .
to 5 In normal saline 5 to 10 ution , mlnutes .
10 to 19 In normal { 19 to 24 solutioncontractility l in 3 minutes .
24 to 34 In no ] saline Minutss .
Left .
to 5 In normal saline 5 to 10 ution , mlnutes .
10 to 19 In normal { 19 to 24 solutioncontractility l in 3 minutes .
24 to 34 In no ] saline Right .
In normal saline .
In normal saline .
tion , In normal saline .
( Continuation of record not reproduced .
) 35 to 40 In alcohol , 1 .
solution , contractility lost nloroform , solution , contractility in 5 utes .
lost in 5 minutes .
40 to 50 In normal saline In normal saline .
50 to 55 In chloroform , solution , contractility In chloroform , solution , contractility lost in 4 minutes .
lost in m1nutes .
55 to In normal saline . .
In normal to 78 In ether , .
solution , contractility In .
solulion ctility lost in 1 minute .
lost in minutes .
73 to 83 In normal saline . . . .
normal line .
83 to 88 In .
solution , conlractility lost In alcohol , 1 .
solution , ctility lost in 5 .
5 minutes .
.\mdash ; August 22 , 1908 .
SiInultaneous Record of Left and Right Sartorius Muscles .
rative Effects of Ethyl solution llormal saline , per 100 ) and ot Chlorolorm solution nornlnl saline , per 100 ) .
Temperature .
In the continuation of this experiment , compallsons were lnado with .
ether ilJld chlolofortl ( not reproduced ) .
It appears from this experiment that chloroform of centimolecular is slightly more effective than } of lnolecular a xperilnent made with chloroform at .
as compated alcohol of standard , it is found that this chloroform 1909 .
] Alcohol Ether , , etc. is considerably less effective .
The equality of chloroform with our alcohol standard is between and , nearer to the former than to the latter value : we have therefore taken as a sufficiently close ap that or FIG. 5 .
Minutes .
Left 35 to 40 In norlllal saline to to 49 In saline 49 to 56 In chlorofornl , .
solution , } ) actility lost 56 to 63 In saline { In normal saline .
utio .
In saline .
In bion of cord n 70 to 75 In salinc . . . .
I 75 to 82 In lorofornl , tion , in 82 to 88 . . . . . . .
88 to 94 In , 1 mol .
conl l in FIG. of of solulion , Dr. A. D. Waller .
Comparative Power of [ June 24 , This relation is not confined to this particular strength .
In an experiment with 2 .
alcohol and .
chloroform , the two reagents produced substantially equal effects ( October 6 ) .
II .
Alcohol .
Ether .
Similar considerations apply to the estimation of the relative physiological efficiency of alcohol and ether .
As compared with a molecular solution of ethyl alcohol it was found\mdash ; That a .
solution of ether was too weak , 0 .
, , , , too , , , , slightly too strong , and that the closest approximation to equality of effects was obtained with and mol .
solutions , from which it is concluded that molecule for molecule ether is between seven and times as powerful as alcohol .
III .
Chloroform .
Ether .
Similar considerations apply to the estimation of the relative physiological efficiency of chloroform and ether .
We commenced by comparing the effects of a l-per-cent .
( by volume ) solution of ether and a l-per-1000 solution of chloroform , these two strengths being respectively equal to .
and .
The ether solution proved to be considerably the weaker of the two .
For the next trial we took double the strength of ether , viz. , 2 per 100 or , and found that at this strength the ether solution was considerably stronger than a chloroform solution of per 1000 In a further comparison between ether , , and chloroform , , the former was sbill considerably the stronger , and from further trial of and of .
ether we finally determined as nearest to phvsiological equivalence : chloroform ether .
1909 .
] Alcohol Ether , Chloroform , etc. tes .
Left .
to 5 In saline 6 to 12 In ether 12 to 20 In saline { 20 to 26 In chloroform ) 26 to 34 In saline ( Continuation of 40 to 45 In saline 45 to 52 In chloroform , Cont .
lob in minutes .
52 to 61 In snlme 61 to 68 ether , contractility lost in 4 minutes .
FIG. 7.\mdash ; August 26 , 1908 .
Simultaneous and of , on The general conclusion from the } ) eriments is given in the tabular sumlnary : I.e. 1 molecule chloroform molecules elher molecules alcohol .
I.e. chloroform molecule is 12 times as powerful as a molecule of ether and times as owerful n a ]uolecule of alcohol .
[ By weight approximately , 1 gramme of chloroform mmes of ether grammes of alcohol .
By volume approximately , 1 .
of chloroform .
of ether .
of alcohol .
] Dr. A. D. Waller .
rative Power of [ June 24 , of upon the Rate of Intoxication .
In my eal'lier experiments upon the rate of intoxication of muscle by alcohol , ether , and chloroform , I paid no particular attention to the temperature beyond noting that the ordinary room temperature during those experiments was comparatively steady at to .
But as the of precision of which the method was susceptible became apparent , I undertook to examine the quantitative effect of the temperature factor .
The first experiment in this direction ( August 18 ) was made with a 5-per-cent .
solution of ethyl alcohol for the purpose of testing the influence of temperature upon the velocity of the reaction between alcohol and muscle upon which the abolition of contractility depends .
At muscular contractility was abolished in 7 minutes ; at muscular contractility was abolished in minutes ; the velocity of reaction in this case was augmented in very similar degree to the augmentations with raised temperature observed in the saponification of ethyl acetate and in cases of vegetable activity .
* In these cases it has been observed that the velocity is increased between twice and thrice with a rise of ; in the case of alcohol and muscle the reaction was accelerated nearly threefold by a rise of temperature of Similar results were obtained as regards the effect of raised temperature upon velocity of reaction in the case of chloroform and in that of ether .
In the experiment of August 20- , the times of abolition of contractility by a mol .
solution of chloroform ( .
per 1000 ) were\mdash ; At .
and nlin .
sec. , , In the experiment of August 27 the times of abolition of contractility by a .
solution of ether ( .
per 100 ) were\mdash ; At .
and gust 2 , 1908 .
Effect of Ether Solution , 0 .
, on a Sartorius MuscIe at and at * Cohen , ' uber PhysikaliscLe eInie , , pp. 37 , 43 , and 45 1909 .
] Alcohol Ether , and Chloroform , etc. In an experiment of , in which the times of abolition by a mol .
solution of chloroform ( c.c. per 1000 .
saline ) were taken by stop-watch , the numbers were noted as 4 minutes at , 2 minutes at minutes at [ Note ( added Scptember ) \mdash ; In a report recently presented to Section I of the British Association at Winnipeg , I have brought forward evidence to show that effects of the two anaesthetics , and ether , are simply additive , i.e. the sum of their individual effects .
Taking , e.g. , a mixture composed of gralnme chloroform rammes ether ) per 1000 c.c. saline , I find that the solution is twice as powerful as a solution of 1 gramme per 1000 , or 8 grammes per 1000 .
Taking , as a point of rture , that 1 is equivalent to 15 , I find that the saline solution of a mixture composed of equal of chloroform and ether is approximately half as powerful ( actually rather more than half ) as the saline solution of a volume of chloroform equal to that of the volume of mixture in solution .
, as before , that 1 , I calculate that the power of a lnixture used in clinical medicine composed of two volumes and three volumes is as compared with the power of chloroform taken Similarly , that the theoretical value of the well-known A.C. mixture ( one volume alcoholtwo volumes chloroformthree volumes ) referred to the same is To put these estimates to the test of experiment , a eful comparison was made of three freshly-prepared solutions , containing respectively\mdash ; ( 1 ) .
per 1000 of the lnixture ( .
( 2 ) 1 .
per 1000 of chloroform alone .
( 3 ) .
per 1000 of the .
In correspondence with the fact that the theoretical equivalent moun t in the case of first Qolution c.c. , and in that of the second solution c.c. ( as compared with 1 .
in the second or , it was found that the effect of the came out htly abovo that of the standard solntion , while that of third solution } oub below that of the stnndard .
] Note.\mdash ; Dr. Veloy has been kind to the tion , from it pears that we are really iCfi an tion of reaction velocity:\mdash ; 558 Comparative Power of Alcohol , Ether , Chloroform , etc. At a temperature of a time 4 .
was required for the abolition of contractility .
, , 2 , , , Hence at the end of each minute , in Case unit ange took Referring tityratio oumbers , By Esson 's formula , * .
log2 .
Mean , Hence calc .
, found .
The graph of in terms of is a straight line and is the most convenient form of representation .
'Phil .
Trans , 1895 , vol. 186 , p. 861 .

