1894 .
] Structure and Affinities of Heliopora CcBruleu , fc .
299 the same sklerotome and the basiventrals of the next previous sklero-tome .
Thus skleromere 50 is composed of a postcentrum = interdorsal 50 + interventral 50 , and of a precentrum = basidorsal 50 + basiventral 49 .
The intermuscular septum runs obliquely across the precentrum , or , in other words , the precentra are bi-protovertebral or bi-myomeric , but not the postcentra .
The precentra of the tail of Amia are homologous with the " pleurocentra " in the tail of the Jurassic Eurycormus , while Amia 's postcentra are the same as the " hypocentra " of Eurycormus .
In Lepidosteus osseus , of which adult specimens and 1 arvre of various stages were examined , the combination of parts into one vertebral complex is superior to that of Amia , because each vertebra belongs , with its entire anterior half ( interdorsal 50 + basiventral 50 ) , to myomere 50 , and with its posterior half ( basidorsal 51 + interventral 51 ) , to myomere 51 .
In other words , the vertebral mass is equally divided between two successive myomeres , or the myomeres have an equal share of the skleromeres .
The vertebrae are now truly bi-protovertebral or bi-myomeric , each vertebra being composed of a + b. XIX .
" On the Structure and Affinities of cwrulea , Pall .
, with some Observations on the Structure of Xenia and HeteroxeniaABy Gilbert C. Bourne , M.A. , F.L.S. .
Fellow of New College , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor Lankester , F.R.S. Received May 30 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) I have had the opportunity of making a renewed examination of the structure of Heliopora , partly through the kindness of Professoi Ray Lankester , who gave me a very well preserved fragment of a colony brought by Dr. S. J. Hickson from Talisse , Celebes .
I ha\e also used some specimens which I collected and preserved in spirit in Diego Garcia , and , in studying the dried corallum , I have had the advantage of a large collection , originally the property of the late Mr. George Brook , which Mrs. Brook has very kindly handed over to me .
All the specimens in my possession are referable to the only recent species known , Heliopora ccerulea , but one of them belongs to the variety tuberosa , Dana .
The Soft Tissues.\#151 ; These form an even sheet , investing the surface of the colony , interrupted here and there by the mouths of the polyps , which are the only apertures opening on the surface .
Ihe structures described below are entirely superficial , and there is no direct com300 Mr. G. C. Bourne .
On the Structure and [ June 21 , munication between the polyps and their connecting canals on one side of the colony and those on the other side of the colony .
The polyps have been fully described by Moseley .
They are scattered irregularly over the surface , and the only important feature presented by them , in which they differ from other Alcyonaria , is the .complete introversion of the tentacles during retraction .
Surrounding each polyp , and occupying all the surface of the'colony , are very numerous tubes , ending blindly below , and closed above by the sheet of superficial ectoderm which covers the exterior surface ; these are the coenenchymal coeea .
They occupy cavities in the corallum known as ccenenchymal tubes , and are set at right angles to the surface of the colony .
The coenenchymal cceca communicate with one another , and with the polyps , by means of a network of canals , which lies close beneath the surface ; these are the superficial endodermic canals .
At the growing edges of the colony the superficial network is not well developed , the coenenchymal cceca are closely contiguous , and open into one another at their outer ends , either directly or by means .of short , irregular , transverse passages which cross over the partitions separating adjacent coenenchymal tubes .
The ccenenchymal cceca , superficial canals , and polyps are lined internally with endoderm .
Outside this is a thin layer of mesogloea , and outside of this an irregular layer of large , dark-staining , granular , fusiform cells , which are calcigenous , and may be called calicoblasts .
The calicoblasts were described by Moseley as mesodermic , but they occupy the position of ectoderm , and they are , in fact , derived directly from the superficial sheet of ectoderm .
Their origin is seen in sections made perpendicularly to the surface of the colony at its growing point .
Here the ectoderm cells are generally elongate and pyriform , their broader outer ends resting on a distinct external limiting membrane , their inner ends tapering and produced into long processes , which may often be traced into connexion with deeper seated fusiform cells , of more granular character .
The deeper seated cells are imbedded in a thick , homogeneous , gelatinous substance which lies immediately below the ectoderm , and is the newly formed mesogloea , thicker here than elsewhere in the colony .
Study of numerous sections shows that the deeper seated fusiform cells are derivatives of the elongate ectoderm cells , and that some of them are used up in the formation of the mesoglcea\#151 ; they appear to dissolve and to be wholly converted into a structui'eless gelatinous mass\#151 ; whilst others increase in size , develop many refracting grannies in their interior , and become calcigenous calicoblasts .
In many places the calicoblasts may be traced into direct connexion with the ectoderm .
The ccenenchymal coeca of Heliopora do not appear to be degenerate siphonozooids , as was suggested by Moseley , but rather to 1^94 .
] Affinities of Heliopora caerulea , be specialised parts of a system of inosculating endodermic canals , , such as are characteristic of colonial Alcyonaria .
The corallum of Heliopora exhibits two sets of apertures , besides those due to the inroads of boring parasites , these are the calicles and the coenenchymal fenestrce .
The calicle cavities are occupied by the polyps , the ccenenchymal tubes , whose mouths are the fenestroe , are occupied by the coeca , which do not in the fresh condition open to the surface , the fenestrse being closed above by the ectoderm .
The corailnm consists of an imaginary vertical plane , occupied by vertically disposed coenenchymal tubes , and right and left faces on which the tubes open after bending sharply from the vertical to take a short horizontal course .
The vertical tubes are in section polygonal , , and some of them attain- the surface at the growing edge .
Those which are deflected horizontally become thickened by the formation of secondary calcareous deposits inside the primitively polygonal tubes .
The calicles are formed by the arrest in growth of groups of ccenenchymal tubes as they approach the surface .
The cavity of a calicle never extends into the central vertical tubes .
The walls of each coenenchymal tube are primarily formed of twelve delicate calcareous lamina ?
, secreted by the calicoblasts covering the coenenchymal coeca , and have this peculiarity , that each of the laminae takes a share in the formation of the walls of adjacent tubes .
As seen in section , three laminae are united at each angle of the generally hexagonal tube to form a Y_shaped figure .
Each arm of the Y meets , and is united by sutures with the arms of adjacent Y's\gt ; and 80 a sorfc honeycoml ; ) structure is produced , , which , if the symmetry of growth were perfectly regular , would consist of a series of regular hexagons .
The symmetry is disturbed by the multiplication of the tubes , which do not branch dichoto-mously , as in the allied Heliolites , but increase by the addition and intercalation of new tubes amongst those previously existing .
The hexagonal primary constituents of the corallnm of Heliopora show very slight traces of blue colour , but as they become thickened by secondary ring-shaped deposits , the latter develop blue pigment , and give the characteristic colour to the colony .
The growth of the colony is not effected , as Moseley described , by the upgrowth of an axial polyp from which lateral buds are given off , , but by the rapid growth and multiplication of coenenchymal tubes .
The fact that the calicles and coenenchymal tubes of Heliopora have-not each their distinct and proper wall , but that their walls are common to them and to adjacent tubes , is a characteristic feature of Heliopora and its allies .
I therefore propose for them the name Cainothecalia , in contradistinction to those forms in which , as in Tubipora , each corallite is separate and distinct ; the latter group may be called the Autothecalia .
302 Structure and Affinities of Heliopora ceerulea , fc .
[ June 21 Under the Autothecalia I class Syringolites , the Favositidce , and , provisionally , the Under the CoenothecaliaI class Theda Plasmopora , Propora , Lyellia , the Chcetetidce , and , provisionally ' Tetradium , Halysites , and the Monticu The genns Heliopora is not the only Alcyonarian with a distinct ectodermic skeleton .
I brought hack with me from Diego Garcia two small Alcyonarians of the genus Xenia .
One of the species is referable to Xenia umbellata , Savigny , var .
ccerulea .
The other I am describing elsewhere as a new species , under the name garcice .
These forms both possess a discontinuous skeleton , formed of the minute corpuscle-like spicules characteristic of the Xeniidse .
In X. umbellata , the spicules in the exsert moieties of the polyps are wholly ectodermic , and none are found in the mesogloea .
In the stem the external ectoderm is filled with spicules , and the so-called coenenchyme proves to be nothing more than the fused ectoderm of the basal moieties of the polyps , which is traversed by strands of mesogloea binding the polyps together , and by endodermic canals which place the polyp cavities in communication with one another .
The mesogloea of the basal moieties of the polyps , as well as the connecting strands of mesoglcea , are quite free from spicules , which are , however , abundant in the mass of fused ectoderm occupying the spaces between the polyps .
In Xenia garcice the spicules are , as in X. umbellata , ectodermic in the exsert moieties of the polyps , and in the ectoderm covering the stem .
The basal moieties of the polyps are provided with a much thicker mesogloea , which is , however , free from spicules , except where the mesoglceal laminae of adjacent polyps become fused , in which case intrusive ectoderm cells and spicules are found in the fused thickened areas .
Elsewhere the basal portions of the polyps are separated , as in X. umbellata , by ectoderm containing spicules , the mass of which is much less abundant than in X. umbellata .
There is also in X. garcice a special system of superficial endodermic canals , which lies immediately below the surface in the upper part of the stem .
I have further been able to examine some specimens of Heteroxenia elizabethce , collected by the late Dr. Gulliver , at Zanzibar , and given by him to the Linacre Department at Oxford .
I am ahle to confirm Kolliker 's account of this genus , which exhibits a well-marked dimorphism , the colony consisting of fertile autozooids surrounded by more numerous sterile siphonozooids .
The spicules of Heteroxenia elizabethce resemble those of Xenia umbellata and garcice , in being minute and entirely ectodermic in the exsert moieties of the polyps .
The stem , however , differs considerably from that of X. umbellata , and is more specialised than that of X. garcice .
Instead of the 1894 .
] Experimental Eesionsof the Cerebellum .
o()3 mesoglceal laminae of the basal moieties of the polyps being distinct or only partially fused together , they are absolutely and indis-tinguishably fused , and the mesogloea is enormously thickened , forming a coenenchymal mass resembling that of Alcyonium .
The mesoglcea immediately surrounding the polyp cavities is devoid of cells , but elsewhere it contains numerous intrusive cells , among which spicules are developed .
The intrusive cells are derivatives of the ectoderm , and in suitable preparations numerous strands of cells are seen to pass inwards from the ectoderm , between the ramifications of the superficial set of endodermic canals , which is rather more marked in this species than in X. It seems probable that the greater part of the coenenchymal mesogloea is formed at the expense of the intrusive ectoderm cells , very few of which develop spicules .
These three species are interesting , firstly , as indicating the steps by which forms with a wholly mesoglceal spicular skeleton , such as Alcyonium , may have been derived from forms with an ectodermic skeleton ; and , secondly , as suggesting the mode in which the ectodermic skeleton of Heliopora may have been developed .
In the Xeniidse , as in the Helioporidae , the bulk of the coenenchymal mesoglcea and the whole of the calcigenous elements are derived from the ectoderm .
In the one case the mesoglceal elements preponderate greatly over the calcigenous , in the other the preponderance of the calcigenous elements has led to the formation of a dense calcareous skeleton , the mesogloeal elements being reduced to a very subordinate position .
XX .
" Degenerations consequent on Experimental Lesions of the Cerebellum .
" By J. S. Risien Russell , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , Assistant Physician to the Metropolitan Hospital .
Communicated by Professor V. Horsley , F.R.S. Received June 4 , 1894 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) The paths which degenerate after ablation of one lateral lobe of the cerebellum , and after extirpation of its middle lobe , are discussed in this paper .
The former operation , viz. , removal of one lateral lobe of the cerebellum , results in degeneration of all the peduncles on the side of the lesion , and in the superior peduncle of the opposite side ; but no fibres degenerate in the middle or inferior peduncle of the opposite side .
The degenerated fibres in the superior peduncle on the side

