498 Mr. L. Tait on the [ June \7 made in two halves , a groove of a zigzag form being cast in each half so that when the two are screwed together a continuous channel is main tained through the bearings for a current of cold water to pass during the whole time the machine is at work .
The advantages suggested by these arrangements are their extrem simplicity , the few number of parts , only one armature and one wir being used .
This principle of the alternate current being utilized is also applicabl to machines constructed on the multiple armature principle ; and th economy thereby resulting would prove of great advantage , as the powe : of the machine could be varied by throwing into the electromagnet either every other current , or every fourth , sixth , or eighth current according to the strength required in the machine , the whole of the othe currents being utilized for electric light or otherwise .
II .
" Note on the Anatomy of the Umbilical Cord .
" By Lawsot* Tait , F.R.C.S. Communicated by W. S. Savory , F.R.S Received April 28 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) I. Its external form and method of growth .
II .
Its covering .
' .
III .
Its substance .
IV .
Its vessels .
, *- , \lt ; *j V. Its relations to the foetus and placenta .
VI .
Its nutrition .
I. The spiral form of the cord has received many explanations ; bir hitherto none has seemed satisfactory , nor sufficient to explain all the facts The cause of the spiral form has generally been regarded as existing ii the arteries ; but experiment shows that the vein is the chief factor .
The considerations drawn from the comparative and teratological ana tomy of the cord point to the conclusion that its twist must depend upoi some mechanism at the foetal insertion .
Such mechanism is found in a peculiar camb-like growth of the derma ring of the umbilicus , and in an arrangement of capillaries upon which the nutrition of the cord depends , that nutrition being supplied over th venous surface of the cord in about the proportion of three to two oi the arterial surface .
This unequal nutrition would seem necessarily t result in a spiral .
II .
" When the surface of the cord is treated with litmus or hsema toxylin , the epithelial covering is found to consist of a single laye of irregularly polygonal cells , regularly nucleated .
The fibrillar matri1 - on which they lie is evidently only a slightly condensed arrangement o : : the canalicular tissue .
Silver-staining shows that these cells have t. peculiar irregularity in size and arrangement .
1875 .
] 'Anatomy of the Umbilical Cord , 499 \#166 ; Well-marked stomata , both spuria and vera , are to be seen on the surface , the latter unquestionably forming orifices of entrance into the vast system of canals of which the proper system of the cord is composed .
The epithelium varies somewhat in its arrangements near the placenta and near the foetus .
In the former position the cells are smaller , more irregularly jointed , and apparently somewhat more elongated in the direction of the long axis of the cord than they are near the foetus .
The whole appearance of the cells gives the impression that the covering is older here ; and in the canals and in the stomata are to be seen rows of minute refracting globules , visible only under very high powers , the nature of which I have been unable to make out , as they appear only after deep silver-staining .
III .
The alveolated canalicular tissue of the cord is divided throughout its entire length into three columns , the divisions between which are not visible to the naked eye , but become very perceptible when one of the columns is injected by Recklinghausen 's method .
When the canals are empty *they present the appearance of fibrous tissue by the collapse of their walls , and when partially distended they look like stellate cells .
This has led to the erroneous description of a fibrous matrix in which occur stellate cells .
In the lacunar spaces of the canals the oval nuclei are imbedded . .
These nuclei do not alter their shapes or positions .
In injecting this system of canals , the fluid passes more readily in the direction from the foetus to the placenta than in the reverse way .
During the process minute streams of the injection may be seen flowing from the surface of the cord ; and these are not due to rents .
Transverse and longitudinal sections of the injected columns show that the canals are stellate in every plane .
In the alveoli between the canals the wandering cells are found .
Silver-staining shows that these canals are walled .
The nuclei are not fusiform , for when magnified 1000 diameters they are seen to be oval and provided with a very small nucleolus .
The statement that they send processes into the branches of the canals is due to an optical illusion , dispelled by the use of high-power immersion lenses .
f The round cells which occur in the alveoli have very large nuclei , quite disproportionate to the surrounding protoplasm .
% They are not constant .
In some cords , especially those removed from large children , they are found very scantily , whilst on the cord of a small eight-months ' child they were found to be extremely abundant .
| They are also often more numerous in some parts of the cord than in others , and in one district of the cord than in another .
They are most abundant near the umbilicus and near the capillaries , phey may be seen moving on the warm stage and exhibiting amoeboid movements after having taken up litmus colour .
500 On the Anatomy of the Umbilical Cord .
[ June I have not been able to discover any nerve-fibres in the cord .
The canalicular tissue may be demonstrated to end in three cones , one for each column of the cord , the apices of which are just within the dermal ring .
The injection will not pass through the tendinous ring nor have I succeeded in making it enter the capillaries of the cord from the canalicular tissue .
When the injection of the capillary plexus running from the derma ' , ring has been successfully accomplished ( and this is , for many reasons , a difficult thing to do ) , there will be found a peculiar vascular arrangemeni in the centre of the cord , lying in the firm nucleated tissue which forms the omphalic ring .
The basis of this arrangement is a peculiar sacculatec sinus , a mere excavation in the fibrous tissue , as it is doubtful if it has any definite wall .
It seems to have a spiral arrangement , for in one section it appears and disappears as only a screw could .
It extends from the omphalic ring at least forty-five millims. up into the true substance of the cord , giving off at short intervals thick trunks which rapidly break up into capillaries .
These capillaries do not form loops , but enter directly into the canalicular tissue ; and it is possible to inject a large extent of all three districts of the substance of the cord by passing the injection through thf foetus .
This sinus seems to originate from the small arteries of thf anterior abdominal wall , which enter with the vein .
There seems to be a close analogy between this arrangement and that of the Haversian system in bones ; indeed the actual resemblance sometimes seen is very close .
IY .
The proper tissue of the vessels is made up of the ordinary fusiform fibre-cells , with their characteristic rod-shaped oval nuclei .
Th\lt ; outer layers seem to have wider limits of contraction than the inner\#151 ; these latter being thrown into rugose folds on the contraction of thf arteries , resembling the appearance of the contracted urethra or oesophagus .
One reason of this exceptional range of contraction is , thai the .
fibres of the muscular tissue are arranged in bundles having a double spiral direction .
The contraction of the fibres seems to be governec by the blood-current , as they contract as soon as the blood in them becomes arterial by the establishment of respiration ; and they may bf seen again to relax and pulsate if the blood becomes again venous by the temporary arrest of respiration .
This appears to be aided by the absence of an endothelial lining to thf arteries , which my observations seem to establish .
The closure of the vessels is effected immediately by clot , and subsequently by the agency of the round migratory cells .
These wandering cells seem also to share in the subsequent processes of inflammatory ulceration and necrosis of the stump of the cord , and in the removal of the coats of the remaining vessels .
Y. The relation of the cord to the foetus has already been described , 875 .
] On the Natural History of Kerguelen 's Island .
501 The limitation of the canalicular tissue of the cord , at its placental attachment , is quite as abrupt .
The injection-fluid cannot be made to pass from the substance of the cord into the placenta , for it is arrested by a firm membrane derived from the chorion , which the vessels of the cord penetrate , and between two layers of which they lie .
There is absolutely no connexion between the nutritive system of the cord and that of the placenta .
YI .
The chief factor in the nutrition of the cord is the arrangement of capillaries entering it from the foetus .
From the facts observed by me in cases of extra-uterine gestation , it is likely , however , that the stomata of the epithelial surfaces of the cord play an important part in its nutrition .
The liquor amnii contains substances which are very suggestive that the fluid is used for purposes of nutrition , and perhaps for the nutrition of the cord .
In recent cases of extra-uterine fcetation , before the liquor amnii becomes absorbed , the cord remains fresh and plump .
After the fluid has been absorbed the cord becomes shrivelled ; but it still retains its structural characters , minus the wandering cells .
It may be , therefore , that the canalicular nuclei are able to keep the cord in repair , as it were , by the matters absorbed from the liquor amnii , until that fluid disappears\#151 ; very much as ivy continues to live after its connexion with its root has been severed .
Indeed the analogy between the umbilical cord and vegetable tissue is , as I hope to be able to show further , a very close one .
III .
" First Report of the Naturalist accompanying the Transit-of-Venus Expedition to Kerguelen 's Island in 1874 .
" ( Conclusion .
) By the Rev. A. E. Eaton .
Communicated by the I President .
Received May 10 , 1875 .
; In January 1875 , shortly after the departure of the American Expedition from Royal Sound , an opportunity occurred of visiting another part of Kerguelen 's Island .
To relieve the ennui of his officers and men , who by that time were thoroughly tired of being detained without any definite occupation in an uninhabited island , Captain Fairfax ordered the ' Yolage ' to leave Observatory Bay , and proceeded to Swain 's Bay , where he remained three weeks .
During this period he entertained me as his guest , took me to the best localities in the bay for collecting , and rendered me every assistance that lay in his power .
The Royal Society is therefore indebted to Captain Fairfax for a fine series of Algae from Swain 's Bay , comprising many species not found in Observatory Bay , and some that were not known to be indigenous to the island .
Most of these are described in the ' Flora Antarctica ' as Falkland-Islands Species .
Captain Fairfax at the same time enabled me to secure the skeleton of a Globiocephalus , which was found dead in shallow water by \#166 ; Mr. Forest ( Mnds .
) .
Most of the epidermis had been removed by small

