246 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ Mar. 11 III .
" Effects of Stress and Magnetisation on the Thermoelectric Quality of Iron .
" By Professor J. A. Ewing , B.Sc. , University College , Dundee .
Communicated by Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received February 24 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) This paper comprises a revised version of one submitted to the Royal Society in 1881 , under the title " Effects of Stress on the Thermoelectric Quality of Metals , Part I , " * along with much new matter .
It deals principally with the cyclic changes of thermoelectric quality which an iron wire undergoes when exposed to cyclic variations of stress ( described in the abstract of the former paper ) , and with the relations of these changes of thermoelectric quality to the changes of magnetism which also occur as an effect of stress .
Stress was applied by exposing the wire to longitudinal pull by means of loads .
The changes both of thermoelectric quality and of magnetism exhibit that tendency to lag behind the changes of stress to which in a previous paperf the author gave the name hysteresis , and the effects are sufficiently similar in regard to the two qualities to suggest that the changes of thermoelectric quality occur as secondary effects of changes of magnetism .
To examine whether this is the case , simultaneous measurements of the magnetic and thermoelectric effects of stress in an iron wire were made , and also independent observations of the thermoelectric effects of magnetisation , without change of stress .
A comparison of these made it clear that stress causes change in thermoelectric quality of iron directly , and not as a secondary effect of magnetisation .
If the wire be completely demagnetised to begin with , and kept clear of all magnetisation during the application and removal of stress , the presence of hysteresis is not less marked than before .
Experiments are given to show how the thermoelectric effects of stress are modified by the existence of more or less magnetisation in the wire ; and conversely , how the thermoelectric effects of magnetism are modified by the existence of more or less constant stress .
The influence of vibration in destroying the effects of hysteresis is investigated , and also the result of exposing the wire to .
the process of demagnetising by repeated rapid reversals of a continuously diminishing magnetising force , and it is shown that this process acts in the same way as vibration in destroying the effects.of hysteresis .
Residual effects of hysteresis are studied , as , for example , the difference which presents itself when a wire is magnetised after having * Published in abstract in '** Proc. Hoy , Soc. , " No. 214 , 1881 .
f " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 216 , 1881 , p. 22 .
1886.1 Effects of Stress and Magnetisation on Iron .
been loaded strongly and then unloaded down to a certain constant state of stress , and , on the other hand , when the same state of stress has been produced by simply increasing the load ; and it is shown that these residual effects are wiped out by vibration or by demagnetising by reversals .
With regard to the effect of stress on thermoelectric quality , it is shown that if a somewhat soft wire be more and more strongly magnetised , these effects become more and more similar to those which are found when the wire is hard drawn , but not magnetised .
A few experiments were made with wires of silver , copper , lead , magnesium , and German silver , but in none of these was hysteresis of thermoelectric quality with regard to load discovered .
Special attention is directed to a peculiar feature in the carves by means of which the experimental results are exhibited .
In curves showing the relation of thermoelectric electromotive force to load , it is shown that any reversal from loading to unloading , or vice , causes an inflection in the curve , the first effect of the new process being to continue the kind of change that was going on before .
That this is not due to any mechanical disturbance which the loading or unloading produces , is shown by the fact that it occurs in an equally marked way after the molecules have been brought to a condition of stable equilibrium by vibrating the wire before beginning to load or unload .
It is suggested that the effects of hysteresis , described in the paper , have a possible relation to the properties which Professor Osborne Reynolds has recently shown to be possessed by granular media .
The experiments described in the paper are closely connected with those which were communicated in January , 1885 , under the title " Experimental Researches in Magnetism , " and are now being published by the Society .
They were conducted in the Physical Laboratory of the University of Tokio , in 1881-3 , partly with the help of one of the author 's Japanese students , Mr. P. S. Sakai .
The results are given graphically , and are for the most part reduced to absolute measure .

