T-R ANSACTION S. XII .
On the Conversion of Animal Muscle into a Substance ynuclJ resembling Spermaceti .
By George Smith ( ; ibbes , B. A. of Magdalen Callege , Oxford .
Conzervunicated b3J George Shaw , M.D. F.R.S. Read March , 1794 .
iT iS a matter of great curiosity to observe , after any fact has been well ascertained , how many things might have led to a much earlier investigatton particularly so , ha(l the--writings of many great men been equally examined , with those observations which , though apparently very trifling ) have often excited general attention .
The conversion of animal muscle into a fatty matter gives us a very striking example .
The celebrated Sir THOMAS BROWN , in his very learned and curious treatise entitled Hy(lriotGlphia , assures us , that he has found a soap-like substance in an hydropical body .
this words are as follow , viz. s ; In an hydropical body , ten years buried in c ; a church-yard , we met with a fat concretion , where the nitre MDCCSCIV .
Z PHI LO S OPHIGA L of the earth , and the salt and lixivious liquor of the body , c ; had coagulated large lulups of fat into the consistence of sc the hardest Castile soap ; nZhereof part remains with us .
' ' Lord BACON in his wor}o entitled Sylva Sylvclr^n , also melations this ctlriotls circumstance : sc You may turn ( alluost ) sc all flesla into a fatty substance ; if you take flesh and cut it c into pieces , and put the pieces into a glass covered with " parcllmentand so let the gIass stand six or seven hoursin ' ; boiling water .
It may be an e-xperiment of profit for make ; ' ing grease or fat for lnany uses ; but then it must be of such " flesh as is not edible , as horses , dogs , bears , foxesS badgers ?
c ; &amp;c. ' ' Animal musele , hail1g lost its living principle , has been generally supposed to undergo , when exposed either to the action of air or water , that kind of decomposition only which is known by thq name of the putrefactive fermentation Since the discovery of the bodies in the Cizetiere des Innocens at Paris , this subject has been more attended to , and a substance much resembling spermacet-i , is now known to be formed by combinations which take the allimal flesh and water .
If you put flesh under water , and let it stay some time , it will get very offiensive , and the putrefactiere fermentation will in some measure most assuredly take place .
This seems to have been the reason why the substarlce remanilag in the water had not been more accurately examined , it being imagined that as this decomposition had commerlced , the whole would ke changed in the same manner .
It would appear strange , if the same substance , exposed to the action of two such different bodies as air and water , should undergo precisely the same thange .
That they do not9 has been lately proved by many experiments , and that the putrefactive fErmentation is not at all necessary in the formation of this fatty matter , I thitlk some of the following experiments wYill sllew .
After having seen some of the matter follnd in the Glnetiere des Innocens at Paris , I concluded that in some situations the same kiIld of substance might be easily foulad X accordirlgly I examined some of the macerating tubsbelonging to anatomical schools in toutnn and l foulad that in most of thete the flesh was nearly changed into this killed of fat .
3y the indulgence of Dr. PEGGE , the anatomical professo-r in Oxfords I was permitted to examine the receptacle in sYhich the bodies are deposited , after he has finished lecturing on them .
This place is a hole dug in the ground to the depth of about 13 or 14 feetf and , to remove all oSe ; asive stmell , a little stream7is turnedthrough it .
I foundX orl first looking into it , that the flesh was quite white , and on drawing up the first piece , I found ist changed in the manner before described .
From this place I have procured at least 12 pound weigh of a substance equal in every respect to spertnaceti .
LIaving seen many specimens of different aninlals , which had been changed unde1 somewhat different circumstances , that ist -where some had been buriexl in dampish groutld , some in wet grourld , and so1ne evell in water itself , t began to suspect that I might bring about the same change in a shorter time , at least I might determine the time necessary for it : with this viewa piece of the leanest part of a rump of beef was confined in a box full of holes , which being tied to a tree near a river7 was suffiered to float in it .
On taking this up from time to time , I ?
erceived that it gradually got whiter and whiterf and at the Z e end of a month it was perfectly to appearance changed t ; o amass of fatty matter .
From some circumstances , T am iIzduced to believe that it is sooner converted in running water than herl it is perfectly at restX for when this beef srasexposed to the water in the river a piece of lnutton was placed in a reservoir of wYater , and I perceived , that though the mutton was exposed for a longer time thaa the beef , yet it was not so much ezhangetl .
Finding that this substance was so formed , and that I could procure large quantities of it , I triedsome experiments KIL-o lnu rify it ; for this purpose I took several pieces of it and nlelted them , and I found , though tIaey were brouglzlt into a closer union yet the foetid smell svs1s as bad as before .
After trying some unsuccessful rexperi:roentsf it occur , red t ; o me that if I CQU add a substance to it which would unite with the oSe1zsive )arts and not with the fat , I rrsigllt then get it pure X accordingly I poured some nitrous acid UpOll it , which immediately had the desired effectg a waxy srrlell-was perceived , and on sepalatizg and rtlelting itn I got it nearly pure .
The nitrous acid turns it elIow , but by sublnittixlg it to the action of the oxygrer &lt; atect nuriatic acid , I have got it quite white and pure .
In tE &lt; e beginning of last June I buried a cown in a place where , from the rising of a river to supply a mill twice a day , it was su}mitted to the action of running ^rater .
On taking this cow up in t)ecember ?
I found that where the water was constantly runlzilag over it , there it was changed into a fatty substance , but where the water which had acted on the meat could not pass oS , there a very disagreeable smell was sensible , and the flesh w-s not : so mucnh changed .
A piece cyf-this cosv , that was pefectly lean , was sttlek through with a stick , and fastened to the bot tom of the riverX t-his piece utas perfectly changed into a fat matter , and had lost its offiensive smell .
I llanre brought about this change in a much shorter time , in the following manner .
I took three lean pieces of mutton and poured on them the three milleral acids , and I perceived that at the etld of three days each was navlch altered ; that ill the nitrous acid was .
much softened , and on separating the acid from ita I found it to be exactly the same with that which I had before got from the watero that in the muriatic acid was not ill that time so much altered ; the vitriolic acid had turned the other black .
From these experimentsa it appears to me that it is rloti at all necessary that the putrefactive fermelltation should take place ; on the contrary , that it takes away a great deal of the flesh which nzigilt serve for the formation of a greater quan-tity of this vaxy substance .
Tlle foregoing experiments may not appear new to every oneg but as they are perfectly so to me , I take the liberty of oEfering them .

