10 .
" An Experimental Inquiry into what takes place during the Vinous , the Acetous , and different Putrefactive Fermentations of dissolved Vegetable Matter 5 and an Examination of some of the Pro ?
ducts .
" By Robert Rigg , Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. The author describes with great minuteness a long train of experiments on the subjects announced in the title of the paper .
His first object of inquiry is into the nature of the changes which take place during the vinous fermentation ; and the conclusion to which he arrives is , that in the formation of the products resulting from this process sugar is not the only vegetable principle which is decom ?
posed , but that the changes consist in the combination of two equivalents of carbon , derived from the sugar of the malt , or other vege ?
table matter , ( = 12*24 ) with two equivalentsof hydrogen from water ( = 2 ' ) forming 14*24 parts of olefiant gas : and in the combination of one equivalent of the carbon from the sugar , &amp;c. ( = 612 ) with two equivalents of oxygen from water , ( = 16* ) forming 22*12 parts of car ?
bonic acid .
He thinks that , on this change taking place , the olefiant 40/ gas is held in solution by the water by an affinity which can be overcome , and that the foreign matter which , with the carbon , formed the sugar , or other vegetable substance , is then at liberty to form new combinations .
He finds that the products resulting from the decom ?
position exceed the weight of the sugar , or other vegetable matter , by about 10 per cent. of the former , and from 11 to 12 per cent. of the latter , as calculated according to the prevailing theory that sugar , or vegetable matter , is the only substance decomposed during the process of vinous fermentation .
From his analysis of sugar he obtains certain proportions of water and of carbonic acid which are different from those given by preceding chemists , the carbonic acid being 45 to 45*5 per cent. His analysis of alcohol gives him 59*7 to 60 per cent. of olefiant gas , the remainder being water .
His experiments on the acetous and putrefactive fermentations are numerous and elaborate , and the results , which are nearly the same as those of former analyses , are given in a tabular form .
He finds that in the acetous fermentation 57 parts by weight of olefiant gas , 5 of sugar , or other vegetable matter , and 64 of oxygen from the at ?
mosphere , combine to form 100 parts of acetic acid , and about 24 of water ; leaving an insoluble substance at liberty to form other com ?
binations : and thus includes in his account of this process the decom ?
position of vegetable matter , which is overlooked in the generally received theory .
During the putrefactive fermentation of vinous fermented liquors , when exposed to the atmosphere , the author considers that one equi ?
valent of carbon from the olefiant gas ( = G*12 ) unites with two of oxygen from the atmosphere ( = 16 ) to form 22*12 parts of carbonic acid : while one equivalent of hydrogen from the olefiant gas ( =1* ) combines with one of atmospheric oxygen ( = 8* ) to form 9 parts of water ; a portion of sugar , or other vegetable matter , being also decomposed ; andan insoluble substance remaining , which , on exposure to the air , undergoes further decomposition , and forms products highly deleterious .
The author is not aware that this latter decomposition has been hitherto noticed .
During the putrefactive fermentation of acetic acid exposed to the atmosphere , he regards one equivalent of carbon from acetic acid ( = 6*12 ) as combining with two of atmospheric oxygen ( = 16* ) to form 22*12 parts of carbonic acid : the oxygen and hydrogen , with which the carbon had formed the acetic acid , remain in the state of water , as they are found by analysis in this substance : a portion of vegetable matter is also decomposed ; and an insoluble substance left behind .
Other substances are also formed during some of the changes resulting from exposure to the air .
During the direct putrefactive fermentation of solutions of sugar , or other vegetable matters , he finds , that one equivalent of its car ?
bon ( = 6*12 ) unites with two of atmospheric oxygen ( == 16 ) to form 22*12 parts of carbonic acid ; leaving the water and an insoluble substance to undergo changes as before mentioned .
The olefiant gas , formed during the vinous fermentation , whether the liquor be in the state of vinous fluid , weak spirit , strong spirit , or even of alcohol , or ether , is subject to precisely the same decomposition , under favourable circumstances for such changes , without any action upon , or re ?
lation to the water which may happen to be combined with it in each kind of liquor .
This olefiant gas cannot , either by distillation or other means , be separated along with any of the water with which it is at first combined , and again united with the same materials , without forming a compound different from the original one : and in proportion as water is , by any means , removed , we obtain it in a somewhat different state ; and this happens without reference to a separate and distinct substance which we may call alcohol , or ether .
Thus neither of these two ill-defined substances ought to be regarded as a separate and distinct principle ; but the whole series of bodies , from the weakest fermented liquor , separated from its vegetable matter , to the most highly rectified ether , consist only of different combinations of olefiant gas , the first product of vinous fermentation , and water .

