2 .
" On the Structure and Mode of Action of the Iris : " by C. R. Hall , Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. After reciting the various discordant opinions entertained at different periods by anatomists and physiologists , relative to the structure and actions of the iris , the author proceeds to give an account of his microscopical examination of the texture of this part of the eye , in different animals .
He considers the radiated plicae , which are seen on the uvea in Mammalia , as not being muscular ; but he agrees with Dr. Jacob in regarding them as being analogous in structure to the ciliary processes .
The white lines and elevations apparent on the anterior surface of the human iris , he supposes to be formed by the ciliary nerves which interlace with one another in the form of a plexus .
The iris , he states , is composed of two portions ; the first , consisting of a highly vascular tissue , connected by vessels with the choroid , ciliary processes , sclerotica and cornea , and abundantly supplied with nerves , which , in the human iris , appear , in a front view , as thread-like strias ; and which are invested , on both surfaces , by the membrane of the aqueous humour .
They are more or less thickly covered with pigment , which , by its varying colour , imparts to the iris on the anterior surface its characteristic hue ; and , by its darkness on the posterior surface , renders an otherwise semitransparent structure perfectly opake .
The second component portion of the iris consists of a layer of concentric muscular fibres , which fibres , in Man and Mammalia generally , are situated on the posterior surface of the pupillary portion of the iris ; but which in Birds ex ?
tend much nearer to the ciliary margin , and consequently form a much broader layer .
In Fishes and in some Reptiles they do not exist at all .
The author then proceeds to inquire into the bearings which these conclusions may have on the physiology of the iris .
He thinks that the phenomena of its motions can receive no satisfactory expla ?
nation on the hypothesis of erectility alone , or on that of the antagonism of two sets of muscular fibres ; the one for dilating , the other for contracting the pupil .
He is convinced that the contrac ?
tion of the pupil is the effect of muscular action ; but does not consider the knowledge we at present possess is sufficient to enable us to determine the nature of the agent by which its dilatation is effected .
He , however , throws it out as a conjecture , that this latter action may be the result of an unusual degree of vital contractility , residing either in the cellular tissue , or in the minute blood-vessels of the iris .
It is from elasticity , he believes , that the iris derives its power of accommodation to changes of size , and its tendency to return to its natural state from extremes , either of dilatation or of contraction ; but beyond this , elasticity is not concerned in its movements .

