]\gt ; 1894 .
] On Functions connected Harmonics .
45 This is below the value for round pipes , and is about half what might be expected to be the vain for a flat pipe , which leaves a margin to meet the other kinematical conditions for steady That the discriminatiug equation also affords a definite expression for the resistance , which proves thnt , with smooth fixed bouudaries , the conditions of dynamical similarity under any geometrical similar circumstances depend onIy on the value of dp- ' where is one of the lateral dimensions of the pipe ; and expl.ession for this resistance is complex , but shows that above the critical velocity the relative-mean-motion is limited , and that resistances increase as a power of the velocity hig.her than the first .
1II .
On Functions connected Tesserftl monics , \ldquo ; By A. H. LEAHY , , late Fellow of brokc Collcge , Cambridge , Professor of Mathematics at Firth College , Sheffield .
Professor HlCKS , F.B.S. Reccived March 24 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The transformation of a zonal harmonic to a pole on a sphere to another pole on the same sphere , expression in a sel.ies containing the 2 harmonics of same order to this new pole , is an operation -requently employed in physlctl esearch .
purpose of this papel is the investigation of certain functions of the angular distance between the.poles lvhich occur general tesseral harmonic is from one pole and to another pole and another plane of reference .
If the tesl of any point on the sphere when referl.ed to the first pole are and ; denoting the colatitudo , and the tnde ; and if the coordinates of same point when to the second pole are and '/ ; dell oling the colatitude and the : longitude refel.red to a ) ) the two poles , it is that . .
\ldquo ; 46 Prof. A. H. Leahy .
On certain Functions [ May 24 , where is associated function\ldquo ; ) .
and are put for is the longitude of the second pole r , ferred to the orlglnal pole and plane , and are the functions of ( 3 , the allgular distance } ) etween the poles whose properties are discussed in the papel ' .
When is zero , i.e. , is a zonal harmonic the function to , if is put for , and is zero .
The general equations connecting the functions , and the values of the ; for general and for particular values of and are investigated .
If and are the colatitude and longitude of a point referred to the second pole and any plane through the pole , the integral of he product of any two tesseral harmonics both of the order ovel .
the surface of a sphere can be expressed concisely in terms of the functions .
The result is if the longitude of the second pole referred to the plane through the first , ] longitude of the first pole referred to the plane hrough the second , is the ] } the poles , and are constants .
The functions are connected by several equations , a l'esemblance to equations connecting tesseral armonics of the same .
They are of course functions of , and ] be written , when may have fferent values , in the form , but the is omltted for brevity in most of the results .
Some of the nlost important the following , the dashes denoting diffeI'ential coefficicnts\mdash ; . . . . . .
( 21 ) ; ; . . . . . . .
1894 .
] connected with Tesseral Harmonics , with Applications .
47 All the relations connecting \amp ; c. , are duplicate ones , similar tions being obtained by interchanging and The equation satisfied by either function is of the fourth order , the two functions } ) different solutions of this equation .
The two solutions of the equabion have also been obtained , and called " " functions of the second kind The equation of finite differences satislied by the functions is also of fonrbh order .
The general value of is\mdash ; ! !
\mdash ; ! ! !
where is the greatest in The value of is given by impler values al.e given for general values of to inclusive .
The values of the functions are of a simplel form is 48 On Functions connected with Tesseral Harmonics .
[ May 24 , a right angle , and can be expressed by a single series .
When is even , the series is the value of when is even , and of when is odd ; the series being continued until one of the factorials in the denominator becomes negative ; and being supposed greater than .
Wben is less than , the lower limit of is .
A similar series gives the values of ?
when is odd , and of when is even for the cass when is odd .
The values of when is even and of when is odd , are } this case to zero .
When is even , the values of when is odd , and of when is even , are also equal to zero .
The value of , is in all cases equal to , and the value of is equal to .
This result gives several algebraic identities , using general values of .
Since , we have by this result , whence we get the result that .
Thus the line integral of a Laplace 's function referred to the first pole along a small circle described about the second pole at gula distance from it is the value of the function at the second pole multiplied by , where is Equations can also be obtained connectinoo , and , where the 's are different .
The most useful is . . . .
( 45 ) , and a similar equation obtained by and .
From equation a table of the ctions for different values of can be calculated , and is given from to .
Since , the number of the functions for any given vnlue of is rfwo physical applications of results arc iven .
The first is an tion of the resulb of a line of 's function referred to one pole a small circle desc ] ibed about anobher .
The is employed to establish thnt the law assumed by Boltzmann and vcll for the number of pal.ticles which have a velocity in 1894 .
] Measnrement of Properties of Iron .
an in.egular system of moving molecnles ( or a " " distu gas is nnaltered in form by collisions the molecules .
In the second application the functions are used to find the mutual potential energy of two layers of gravitating matber on two spheres , the density at point on each sphere being expressed in terms of referred to fixed coordinates npon it , and the spheres having position with reference to the joining their centres .
The case two ellipsoids not differing much from spheres is also worked ont numerically , and the stable positions discussed .
A stable orbit possible with the major axes of the ellipsoids constantly in a straight line .
If one ellipsoid is fixed and the other projected so as to describe a nearly circular orbit about it , with its major axis initially pointing to the centre of the other , the orbit will be possible if in a plane perpendicular to the least axis of the greater , but the deviation of the major axis of the second from the line of centres will contain a term which to the first approximation is ] , and may ultimately cause this axis to deviate from its initial position .
There are three stable positions for the second ellipsoid if the first ellipsoid is fixed and the centre of the other fixed .
These posicions will in general be with the major axis of the second pointing towards the of first , and in a line with the major , mean , and least axes of the first , but if , the distance between the centres , is so small that , or than where are the least , mean , and greatest axes of the first sphere , the stable positions will be different .
Thus the stable positions always be with major axis of the second in the line of centres if is greater than The " " fnnctions of the second kind which are the two ; solutions of the differential equation of the fourth order satisfied by , are also briefly investigated . .
' ' On the Measurement of tho NIagnetic of By THOIIAS GRAY , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Dynamic , The Rose Polytechnic Institute , Haute .
Irldiana .
icated by Lord KELVIN , P.R.S. Received Apri16 , ) ( Abstract .
) This paper gives the resnlts of a continuation of the tion which formed the subject of a paper communicated to Roya ] Society in 1892 , and published in the ical Transactions , ' VOL. LVI .

