An Extract of a Letter Written to the Publisher by Mr. Thomas Platt , from Florence , August 6 .
1672 .
concerning some Experiments , there made upon Vipers , since Mons. Charas his Reply to the Letter written by Signor Francesco Redi to Monsieur Bourdelet and Monsieur Morus .
Sir , I shall begin with telling you , that in a Conversation last Winter , where I had the good fortune to make one of the number , the discourse was of an Opinion of M , Dela Chambre , who , to prove that the Spirits are animated , alleges , among other arguments , their Aptness to discern ; by which he supposes , that in the heat of their anger they gather the Poison from the several parts of the blood , and therewith convey themselves to the teeth of the irritated animal , from whence they are afterwards transfused into the wound by biting .
This conceit was by some of the Company received with much applause , because they knew , how difficult a thing it was , to come to an explanation of that poison , which M. Dela Chambre makes mention of in general , That the spirits proceed from the Blood of the irritated animal .
So they agreed , paucis mutatis , hence to frame a new Hypothesis , saying , That such poison is nothing else but a new and malignant activity of the same Spirits whilst they are vexed and bent towards revenge ; asserting the truth of such Ideal effects with divers examples , as that of the Toad , the Weasel , the Mad Dog , the Spider of Puglia , &amp;c. which were all found very weak and un-concluding .
Wherefore most of the Gentlemen did incline to entertain Mons. Dela Chambre 's first fundamental Opinion , since at least that supposes , That those Animals , that poison by their biting , have already a real poison within themselves , and that Anger works no other effect , but to gather all the venomous parts together in one particular place , whence they may easily be instilled into the wounds , made by the teeth .
For all this , ( as it most commonly happens in such discourses , ) every~one remained in his own Opinion ; and mention having been made of that of Signor Redi 's , held in his Book of Vipers , which for several years passes in this Country almost for an undoubted truth , viz. That the Vipers poison consists in some thing , incompatible with this new allay of M. dela Chambre 's opinion , reduced to the irritated Spirits , though not with that of his , which is taken purely from its first grounds : This gave occasion to a new debate concerning the validity of Sinnor Redi 's Assertion , so generally received here : some saying , it would do well to examine the grounds of it .
Upon this it was resolved , that all might be satisfied , to come to a trial as soon as the Spring would give leave to Vipers to appear abroad .
Now , Sir , you must know , that being at the house of Sign .
Magalotti on the 2d of June last , there came Dr. Francini , who had formerly been one of the most resolute Assertors of this Ggggg2 opinion opinion of Signor Redi concerning the Poison of Vipers ; and being come he sent to his lodging for a Box , in which there were a great many heads cut off , that morning , of Vipers lately come from Naples .
He immediately desired to have some Animals to begin his Experiments upon ; but there being at that time no other company with Signor Magalotti but his brother and I , it was thought fit to stay till next morning , that those Gentlemen , who were at the dispute last Winter , might be present ; as it fell out they were .
I , that had not so much patience , desired the Doctor to make at least one experiment ; which being granted , Signor Magalotti was pleased to send to the public Market for a couple of Pigeons , to be sure of having some , that were not prevented by any Antidote .
The Pigeons being come , the first was wounded with the Teeth of a Vipers head that had been cut off about 7 or 8a clock the same morning .
The way of making the wound was , by thrusting twice the Master-teeth into the fleshy part of the Pigeons breast , till such time as pressing the upper part of the Jaw , the two little bladders , that serve as gums to the teeth , did empty out upon the wound some of that yellow liquor , which here is supposed to be the true and only poison of the Viper .
This Pigeon being thus bit , and set upon the ground , began to stagger immediately , and dyed in less then 3 or 4 minutes .
The second Pigeon was wounded in the same manner ; but at the first wound there only entered one of the teeth , which brought forth a great deal of blood ; the second time they both entered , and this had the same fate , with this difference only , that he languish't half a quarter of an hour .
The next morning there met at Signor Magalotti 's Chambers , besides the company of the day before , Signor Carlo Dati , Sign .
Vincenzo Viviani , Sign .
Paolo dell Ara .
Dr. Savona , Dr. Neri .
Dr. Fabrini , and some others .
Whereupon six Pigeons and a Cock having been brought ; the first thing that Dr. Francini did , was , to thrust several thorns of Rose shrubs into the breast of one of those Pigeons , to manifest , that such accidents , as might befall those that should be wounded by the Teeth of the dead Vipers , were not meerly caused by the wound .
And whereas one of the company began to make some nice reflexions , and to take some of the heads to measure the just proportions of their teeth , to see what difference there might be betwixt them and the thorns , this made the Doctor loose patience ; and soon taking a pin , which was none of the least , he gave to the first Pigeon , that he could lay hands on , a very deep wound in the breast , which no sooner was got free but began to leap &amp; frisk about the room , as if it had not been concerned in the least .
After this , they began in good earnest .
For another Pigeon was taken and bit in the breast by both the Master-teeth of a Vipers head , that had been cut off the morning before ; the execution being exactly like that of the day before .
The effect was , that the Pigeon had the same shaking fits ; after which falling upon his belly he died , giving signs a little before of a painful Agony , by his often gaping .
His end was not only very sensible to him , but also more tedious than that of the other day ; for , this lived 5 or 6 minutes after his wound .
Another having been served after the same manner with another head , had the like accidents , and died within a quarter of an hour : This Observation was made on this other , that his wound let out a great deal of blood ; whereas not so much as one drop was seen to come out of any of the others .
All this appearing as yet but little to the Doctor , to exclude the doctrine of Spirits , which now began to loose ground after so many experiments of Dead Vipers heads ; he took three stalks out of a Broom , and having smoothed them , and sharpn 'd them at the ends after the manner of a Lancet , he drew from the gums of several heads enough of that yellow juice to dawbe two of those stalks ; which , being thus moistned with that liquor , were both put into thebreasts of two Pigeons , and there left ; the like having been done to another with the 3d stalk not covered with that juice , which was at least one third part bigger and longer than the other two .
In a word , the two first died within 4 or 5 minutes , and the last continues to this very day in Signor Magalotti 's Pigeon-house as brisk and as fat as ever ; his wound in his breast , instead of having caused an Inflammation , is now almost perfectly healed .
Whilst these Experiments were making , it came into the heads of some to try another , upon the relation that Sign .
Paolo dell Ara ( lately come from Paris ) had made ; which was , that some had asserted there , that , to swallow a Vipers head was a most certain Preservative and Remedy against the biting of a Viper .
Dr. Francini smiled at that fancy ; but to give full satisfaction about it , he made two experiments .
The one was , by making the Cock that was there to swallow a Vipers head , and then causing him to be well bitten in both thighs by a live one .
But the Cock continuing some time before he gave any signs of sickness ; not to loose time , he passed to the other experiment , by thrusting the Teeth of a dead Vipers head into another pigeon , that had before got down one of those heads into his belly .
The conclusion was , that both dyed , the Cock within a quarter of an hour , &amp; thePigeon in less than 4 minutes .
The news of these Experiments made many persons curious to see them performed once more ; so that , some few days after , a rendezvous was made in Sign .
Magalotti'sGarden , where , besides the forenamed persons , met Mr. Thomas Frederick , Mr. John Godscall ( two English Gentlemen , ) Abbot Strozzi ( his Most Christian Majesties Public Minister in this Court , )Sign .
Paolo Falconieri(first Gentleman of the Bed chamber to the G. Duke)Sign .
Luigi del Riccio , Mons. Pelletier , Mons. Morelle ( the one Physician , and the other Surgeon to the G. Duchess , ) Dr. Gornia Physician in Ordinary to his Highness , Dr. Bellini Professor of Anatomy at Pisa , Sign .
Lorenzo Lorenzini a Mathematician , and Sign , Pietro Salvetti .
But by the by , give me leave to tell you(for some diversion , ) that this Sign~ Salvetti , who is one of the G. Dukes Musicians , &amp; plays on all Bow Instruments , invented about 4 years ago a New tuning of the Ancient Lira Viol with the usual 13 strings ; by means of which tuning it is rendred wholly perfect , so that you may express upon it all Concords , Discords , and also the imperfect Concords , as seavenths , fixths , &amp;c. as well as upon any Virginal that hath the quarters of Notes upon it .
It is true , it is only for Melancholy and passionate matter , and not for division , as is the proper nature of the Lira .
I shall only add , that with the abovesaid tuning he ascends in Alte as high as G , Sol , Re , Ut ; and descends as low as double C , Sol , fa , ut ; and can make every where the same Concords as above .
This same person having applied himself to the study of the Mathematicks , and particularly about the Proportions ofHarmony , relating to his profession of Music , began to delight himself in Opticks and other parts : And not being content with the Theory , he went on to put it in practice by making Telescopes of divers sizes , as also Microscopes , in imitation of those of Divini and Campani .
And I can tell you , that he lately showed one of his Microscopes to the G. Duke , which was judged by all much better than any of the best his Highness hath ; and I was an eye-witness to this , that for magnifying , defining , and clearness , it was found very excellent .
The same day he likewise showed his Highness a little Prospective Glass , made according to Mr. Newtons new Invention ; and though this was but the first , and was not above half a foot long , it had the same effect of one of two .
He is now making another after the conceit of M. Cassegrain , though he agrees not with him in making convex the little Speculum , which one looks into through the Eye glass ; but believes , the French Author only devised that to disguise as much as was possible his pretended New Invention , which he endeavours to make anterior to Mr. Newtons most noble one .
For the rest , he thinks he hath found a way of making Objects seem right with one only glass .
But , to return from this digression to our first discourse , you may take notice , that the Assembly at Signor Magalotti 's , having been first informed by Dr. Francini of the grounds of this dispute and of the former Observations , he began the same experiments by causing 2 Pigeons to be bit by a Vipers head that had been dead above ten hours , in such a manner that by pressing the gums some of that yellow liquor might drop into the wound .
They both died , one in 6 minutes , and the other in 8 ; and not being content with this , with another Vipers head they poisoned a Chicken , which died in 10 minutes .
There appeared afterwards another Pigeon , that had been wounded , many hours before , by a dead Vipers head ; but it had been dead so long , that the liquor , quite dried up in the gums , was become so hard , that for all the squeezing of it nothing would come to the teeth ; whence this Pigeon was very well : And Dr. Francini having caused the same bird to be bit again by the same dried head , it had after a little fluttering with his wings , whilst the pain of the biting lasted , no other harm .
A live Viper then being taken,4 Chickens were bit by it one after another .
The two first , either because the liquor did not penetrate into the wound , or the blood expelled it , appeared not to have any distemper .
The 4th looked as if it would dye presently ; but a little after coming to himself he got clear off for that time .
But the third , who seemed at first to be very lively , dyed within an hour and an half .
There being afterwards a young Bitch brought in of a pretty size , she was bit twice by a live Viper in the middle of the hanging part of the ear Whereupon she very soon began to give mortal signs , by staggering , vomiting and being convulsed ; after which having a little recovered her self , the same accidents returned upon her , by which she was reduced to such a grievous condition , that four hours after her being bit she could not stir any more , and seemed just as if she had been dead , holding out her tongue , and looking very gashly , without any other sign of life than that of painful breathing ; to which she added sometimes a faint barking and a languishing howling .
In which condition she was still found next morning , only her respiration was yet weaker , and she appearing just a drawing to her end .
It was observed , that no part of her body was swelled , nor had any spot upon it .
She had voided backward some matter of a very black colour , of which her hind parts being very foul , a swarm of Gnats and Wasps were devouring her alive : Which moved one of the servants of the house , to knock her in the head .
After this , there were bit two Capons and a Pullet by a fresh Viper , vexed a purpose ; and , because they gave not then any signs of being ill , they were sent back to their coops , and there having continued well till evening , they were surprised at night by a distemper , which in all likelihood proceeded from the poison ; for next morning one of the Capons and the Pullet were found dead .
I must not forget to tell you , that the last thing that was done , was , the sending to the Pigeon-house for that Pigeon , that had in his breast the stalk that had not been imbued by the yellow liquor ; where he had been kept during all that interval of time , from the first experiments to these last ; being now found by all not only very lively , but also in a thriving condition .
The place of his wound being search't , the stalk was easily felt , and was , before the eyes of all the company , with a little pair of Pinchers drawn out .
This is , Sir , what I can considently affirm to have been an eye-witness of ; and it being not my business to make reflections upon these experiments , I leave that to you .
I know , I have not said any thing but what will be most amply found in Sign .
Redi 's first and 2d .
book ; but that , which urged me to make this repetition , was the thoughts that it might be acceptable to you , to see his Assertions confirmed by the Testimonies of so many persons , that are the more able to be judges of them , because their understandings are such , that it is not possible to impose upon them .
If I may be so happy as to receive sometimes from you an account of the Curious performances of your famous Royal Society , , I shall make use of that favour , to animate the Virtuosi here to do something that may not be unworthy of your knowledge : But before you afford me this honor , I must first beseech you to lay your commands on me , by the execution of which you shall plainly see , with how much reality I am , &amp;c. Dr. John

