IL .
" On the Interrtuption of the Voltaic Discharge in Vacuo by Magnetic Force .
" By J. P. GASSIOT , Esq. , F.R.S. Received Decemiiber 6 , 1859 .
The late Professor Daniell , in his Fifth Letter on Voltaic Combinations ( Phil. Trans. 1839 , part 1 ) , describes some experiments madewith seventy series of his constant battery , and states ( page 93 ) " that the arc of flame between the electrodes was found to be attracted and repelled by the poles of a magnet , according as one or the other pole was held over or below it , as was first ascertained by Sir II .
Davy ; and the repulsion was at times so great as to extinguish the flame .
" In the Philosophical Magazine of July 18.58 , Mr. Grove has described an experiment made by him with one of my vaculum-tubes , 2 feet 9 inches long , in which he ascertained that the discharge of a Ruhmkorff 's induction coil could be stopped by briniging a magnet near the positive terminal wire , but that this effect was not obtained when the magnet was made to approach the negative .
The mercurial vacuum-tube in which Mr. Grove observed this phenomenon was unfortunately shortly afterwards broken ; and although Mr. Grove and myself have repeatedly endeavoured to obtain the same result in similar and in other vacuum-tubes ( and since that period I have experimented with upwards of two hundred ) , all our efforts have been hitherto unsuccessful .
The experiments I am now about to describe were made with two carbonic acid vacuum-tubes , the vacua being obtained in the same mannier as described by me in the Philosophical Transactions , part 1 , 1859 .
A , in the aninexed figure , represents a glass tubular vessel ( No. 146 ) , 24 inches long and 6 inches diameter in its wide part ; at one end , attached to the platinum wire ( a ) , is a concave copper plate 4 inches diameter , at the other end is a brass wire attached to the platinum wire ( 6 ) .
B represents a glass tube ( 196 ) 5 inches long ( in its wide part ) , in which two small balls of gas-retort coke are attached to the platinum wires a ' and 6 ' , and are placed about 3 inches apart , all the platinum wires being hermetically sealed in the glass .
In A the potash is placed in the vessel between the electrodes ; in B it is placed in the further part of the tube , beyond one of the wires .
An electro-magnet is placed at C , and is constructed so as to allow the two helices to be separated ; and by these means the larger vessel can , if required , be placed between them , and any portion of the luminous discharge may be thus exposed to any part of the magnetic field .
Battery .
F -H~~~~4 A~~~ C , C\ z A-T\ EC C'-f.i * The carbon-balls do not in these experiments affect the results described , as I have obtainied the same in a tube of the same ( limension with brass wires .
When the terminals of any excited induction coil are attached to the wires of either of the above vacuum-tubes A or B , luminous discharges are obtained , the negative wire ball or plate being covered with a luminous cloud-like glow extending towards the positive ; but the stratifications are not developed , except by the magnet , and these become more clearly defined as the magnet is caused to approach , or as the power is increased , when they are deflected according to the direction of the discharge , or of the polarity of the magnet .
But with the induction coil , no matter how I reduced the intensity of the discharge , or varied that of the electromagnet , in no instance could I produce in these , or in any of my vacuum-tubes , a similar result to that which Mr. Grove obtained in the vacuum-tube so unfortunately broken ; the experiment evidently requires a certain balance of power between the electric discharge and that of the magnet , and this I had hitherto beenl unsuccessful in obtaining .
I next experimented with my water-battery ( Phil. Trans. 1844 , and Proceedings , 26 May , 1859 ) , which I have recently had carefully cleaned and recharged with rain-water ; the luminous discharge in both the vacua A and B was obtained with less than 1000 series , and this discharge , as well as that from the full series of the battery of 3520 cells , was under certain conditions , hereafter described , entirely destroyed or interrupted by the power of the magnet .
At first the interruption or break in the luminous discharge appeared to be caused by the sudden action of the magnet , as if it were merely momentarily blown out , for the discharge recovered itself while it remained under the influence of the magnet the luminous discharge under this conditlon gradually reappearing stratified and strongly deflected ; but I subsequently ascertained that , by carefully adjusting the intensity of the battery discharge , and the force or power of the electro-magnet , this recovery in the discharge could be entirely preveilted .
On approaching the vacuum A towards the electro-magnet , the luminous discharge from the battery assunmed the same form as that from the induction coil ; but when the vacuumn was placed between the helices , so as to permit the armatures or poles of the magnet to touch one or each side of the glass vessel at about its centre , the discharge disappeared ; as sootn as the magnet was removed , or the vacuunm-tube withdrawni from its influenice , the luminous discharge was reproduced .
To test whether a complete disruption of the electrical cutrrent had taken place , two gold-leaf electroscopes were attached , one to the zinc and the other to the copper terminal of the water-battery ; the leaves diverged with considerable energy ; connection was then made from the electroscopes to the wires of the vacuum-tube ; the luminous discharge became visible , and the leaves of both electroscopes partially collapsed ; the vacuum-tube was then placed as before , between the armatures of the electro-magnet , and immediately the magnet was excited , the luminous discharge disappeared , and the leaves of the electroscopes diverged to their original maximurm extent , thus proving the disruption to be complete .
If the smaller tube B is placed across both poles of the mag , net , the luminous discharge at its centre assumes the appearance of being nearly separated into two parts , each part showing a tendency to rotate round the pole of the magnet on which it is placed , the one in an opposite direction to the other .
I endeavoured to obtain a disruption of the battery discharge when in this state , and possibly with a more powerful electro-magnet this experiment would succeed ; but although I reduced the intensity of the battery discharge and increased the power of my electro-magnet , I could not in this manner obtain an actual discontinuity of the battery discharge ; but when the same vacuum-tube was placed in a longitudinal or equatorial position between the poles , or even approached them within three or four inches in that direction , an immnediate interruption of the discharge took place .
When both vacuum-tubes are placed in the battery circuit , the interruption can be shown in a very striking manner : the general arrangement of the apparatus represented in the figure shows how this experiment is made .
A is fixed on a wooden support .
One wire ( b ) is attached to the copper terminal of the battery , the other wire ( a ) being connected to one of the wires in B , which is held by the hand , the other wire ( 6 ' ) being connected with the zinc terminal of the battery , gold-leaf electroseopes being placed as before .
Irn this manner all the apparatus is fixed except B , which being held by the hand , and the connecting wires being flexible , can be placed in any required position .
As lonig as the vacuums are at a sufficient distance from the action of the magnlet , the luminous discharge is visible in both , and the leaves of the electroscopes partially collapse ; but immnediately the discharge in B is placed in the position described in the previous experiment , between the poles of the magnet , the discharges in both vacua instantly disappear , and the leaves of the electroscopes diverge to their original maximum .
The actual position of what is termed the magnetical field , around and between the poles of a magnet , has been generally delineated by means of iron filings placed between the poles on a sheet of paper .
Assuming the lines in which these particles arrange themselves to represent the direction of the power of the magnet , or the magnetic field , they also explain the actual position through which the vacuumtube should be placed to obtaini the preceding result , and in this manner to show by experiment that a voltaic discharge which has sufficient intensity to pass through a space of upwards of 6 irnches in attenuated carbonic acid gas is not only interrupted , but absolutely and entirely arrested by magnetic force .
Postscript ( received Jan , 19 , 1860 ) .
In repeating the experiments with Dr. Tyndall in my laboratory , the disruption of the luminous discharge in vacuo from 400 cells of the nitric-acid battery was obtained : some most beautiful and striking results were obtained from the same battery on the 16th inst .
, on repeating the experiment in the Theatre of the Royal Institution , with its large electromagnet , Dr. Faraday and Dr. Tyndall being present .
The large receiver ( 146 ) was placed between the poles of the electro--magnet , the lines of force going through it ; electrodes equatorial .
The stratified discharge was extinguished .
Subsequently , through the sinking of the battery , or some other cause , the stratifications disappeared , and the luminious glow which filled the entire tube remained .
On now exciting the magnet with a battery of ten cells , efftlgent strata were drawn out from the positive pole , and passing along the upper or under surface of the receiver , according to the direction of the current .
On making the circuit of the magnet , and breaking it immediately , the luminous strata rushed from the positive and then retreated , cloud following cloud with a deliberate motion , and appearing as if swallowed by the positive electrode .
The amount of electricity which passed appeared materially increased on exciting the maglnet ; once the discharge was so intense as to fuse half an inch of the positive terminal .
After this had occurred , the discharge no longer passed as before when the terminals of the battery were connected with it ; but on connecting the positive end of the battery with the gas-pipes of the building , the discharge passed .
The discharge could also be extinguished by the magnet ; and the time necessary to accomplish this , furnislhed a beautiful inldication of the gradual rise and reduction in the power of the electromagnet .

