243 On a New Rha By George Murray , F.R.S. ( Received January 13 , \#151 ; Read February 23 , 1905 .
) After the publication by Mr. Blackman and myself in the * Phil. Trans.'* there appeared in the * Zoologischer Anzeiger 'f a tract by Professor Ostenfeld , of Copenhagen , on the Coccospheres and Rhabdospheres .
His main idea was to split up the Rhabdospheres ( so far as his treatise concerned the Rhabdospheres ) into two genera , viz. , Rh of Sir John Murray and Discosphcera of Haeckel .
From the beginning I distrusted Professor Ostenfeld 's discrimination as I had distrusted Professor Haeckel 's , and it has now been my fortune to discover a new Rhabdosphere which destroys , in my opinion , the idea of breaking up the genus Rhabdosphcera .
Of the species of this genus , the most elusive organisms in natural history , there have been but few good specimens .
They were derived in the first place , in broken-down fragments , from deep-sea deposits , and conjectures were made as to their origin .
The next stage was the description of the Rhabdospheres as surface organisms by Sir John Murray during the " Challenger " Expedition , and still later , more completely as I hope , in ' the ' Phil. Trans. , by Mr. Blackman and myself .
There are only two forms known , and I now propose to add a third .
The interest is not only systematic , but may have bearings^ on geological points and also on the study of deep-sea deposits , which is very much the same problem .
I desire to associate the name of my colleague , Mr. V. H. Blackman ( my companion in many arduous sea journeys ) with this Rhabdosphere , and I propose , therefore , its name shall be Rhabdosphcera , G. Murr .
Its outstanding characteristic is the possession of sharp spinous processes , in contrast to the trumpet-shaped and club-shaped processes of the two known species .
The points of general interest are these , viz. , the novelty and extreme rarity of the Rhabdosphere , and the fact of my never having once met with it in the deep-sea deposits or geological specimens so kindly put at the disposal of Mr. Blackman and myself by Professor Judd .
The minuteness * B , vol. 190,1898 .
t Vol. 23 , No. 612 , April 9 , 1900 .
$ Loc .
cit. S Gf .
'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 190 , 1898 .
On a New Rha and extreme tenuity of the spines probably amply account for its not having been recognised in the deep-sea deposits .
The formal description is as follows :\#151 ; Rhdbdosphcera Blackmaniana , n. sp. Yery minute , 10 / x , i.e. , about one quarter the size of R. claviger , with tapering acute short spinous processes .
Lat. obs .
28 ' 25 ' S. , long .
23 ' 56 ' W. On the outward voyage to the Cape of the " Discovery .
" I add no greater details , since the subject of Rhabdospheres has been dealt with so fully by Mr. Blackman and myself.* * Loc .
cit.

