Philosophical Transactions numb : 2,1-0 W SN Numb. 210 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
For the Month of May , 1694 .
The CONTENT S. I. A Letter from Monsieur N. Witsen to Dr. Martin Lister , S. R. S. with two Draughts of the Ruins of Persepolis .
II .
Dr. Gwither 's Discourse of Physiognomy , communicated by Mr. Owen Lloyd , Secretary of the Philosophical Society at Dublin .
III .
A Continuation of Mr. John Clayton 's Account of Virginia ; giving a short Description of the Beasts and Serpents thereof .
IV .
Methodus Nova , Accurata &amp; facilis inveniendi Radices AEquationum quarumcumque generaliter , sine praevia Reductione .
Per Edm .
Halley .
I. A Letter from Monsieur N. Witsen to Dr. Martin Lister , with two Draughts of the Famous Persepolis .
THIS Ingenious and Inquisitive Gentleman having already often obliged the World with Communications of his Discoveries , lately sent the following Letter with the Draughts to Dr. Lister , who was pleased to permit their Publication in these Tracts : The greatness of the Curiosity we hope will recommend them to the Lovers of Antiquity , little of those Famous Remains having been yet published , and those that have been , but ill designed or graved .
Monsieur Witsen 's Letter , translated from the French , is as follows .
SIR , SInce I had the Honour of receiving your last , there came to my hands several Curious Shells from you , with a piece of English Agate , and the Transactions of the Royal Society for the Month of June last , for which Favours I return my Humble Thanks .
As to the Cockles of the Caspian Sea , and from the Mouth of Wolga , I have Advice from Moscou , that they are expected there this Winter : Meanwhile I herewith send you some SnailShells , taken out of the River Jaute , not far from the City of Moscou .
Our Apothecaries make use of them powdered , and probably for the same purpose as CrabsEyes .
There are some others likewise which are found in the Rivers of Moscou and Neglina , and in the Wolga .
Since you have been pleased to communicate to me an Inscription found at Persepolis , I thought it would be acceptable to send you the Draughts of part of the Ruins of the Stone-work of that Proud Palace , given me by the Person himself that drew them upon the place .
I should be much satisfied had I any thing worthy of your Curiosity and the Public , which you so often Oblige with your Discoveries , which justly merit mine and the Thanks of all that esteem them as much as my self , who am the Cherisher of your Friendship , and desirous to show that I am , SIR , Tour most Humble and Obedient Servant , Amsterdam , N. Witsen .

