III .
An Account of a Book entitled Vegetable Staticks : Or an Account of some Statical Experiments on the Sap in Vegetables ; being an Essay towards a natural History of Vegetation .
Also , a Specimen of an Attempt to Analyse the Air , by a great Variety of Chymico-Statical Experiments ; which were read at several Meetings before the ~ Society , &amp;c. By Stephen Hales , B.D.F.R.S. Rector of Farringdon , Hampshire , and Minister of Teddington , Middlesex .
The Account by the Rev. John Theoph .
Desaguliers , L L. D. R. S. S. AS the Ancients used to say , that Geometry and Arithmetic are the Wings of a Mathematician ; so a Mechanical Hand , and a Mathematical Head are the necessary Qualifications of an Experimental Philosopher .
The first alone may enable a Man to make a great many Experiments , but not to judge of them : For without being able to observe , compare , and calculate the exact Quantity of Weight , Force , Velocity , Motion , or any other Change to be taken notice of in making Experiments ; Effects may be attributed to Causes which are not adequate to them , and sometimes expected to be produced even without a Cause ; as appears by the Cost and Trouble of those who have attempted to find the Perpetual Motion .
Tho ' such Persons may make some Discoveries , their Philosophy will be at best but conjectural , and their Conclusions only guesswork .
The mere Mathematician on the other hand , wants Postulata in Physics ; or taking things for granted upon the Reports of others , comes often to wrong Conclusions , tho ' he reasons justly ; because his Premises are false : Whereas he might have been set right in several cases , by only observing the Operations of Handycraft-Workmen , which he had over looked or despised .
Men of warm Imaginations , who wanted Mechanicks or Mathematicks , or wou 'd not apply them to Physicks , have pestered the Learned World with Philosophical Romances , such as the Cartesian System , contrived for the Diversion of the lazy and talkative ; or Modern Theories , which their Authors , blinded by Vanity , and urged by Obstinacy , have defended to the last , against Reason , Mathematicks and Experiments ; nay , and have often for the Support of their Hypotheses , contrived complex Experiments ; from whose Inaccuracy they have drawn Arguments to deceive themselves and others , as much to the disadvantage of true Philosophy , as the Scholastic Disputes of the Aristotelians ; in which , Victory , not Truth , was contended for .
But the incomparable Sir Isaac Newton has not only shortened the Geometrician 's Work , by his wonderful Discoveries in abstract Mathematicks ; but has also taught us , by his own Practice , how to make , and judge of , Experiments and Observations with the utmost Accuracy : And as he avoided making Hypotheses ; he was so cautious as to deliver only by way of Queries , several Truths which he was convinced of ; because he wanted a sufficient Number of Experiments to make them as evident as those others , whereby he has so far improved and advanced Natural Knowledge .
Our Author has follow 'd his steps , asserting nothing but what is evidently deduced from those Experiments , which he has carefully made , and faithfully related ; giving an exact Account of the Weights , Measures , Powers and Velocities , and other Circumstances of the Things he observed ; with so plain a Description of his Apparatus , and manner of making every Experiment and Observation , that as his Consequences are justly and easily drawn , so his Premises or Facts may be judged of by any Body that will be at the Pains to make the Experiments , which are most of them very easy and simple .
His Account of every Thing is written in such an intelligible manner , that the inquisitive Reader is capable of understanding it , without being puzzled with perplexed Calculations and complex Experiments ; which Authors have sometimes contrived , in order to be admired for those Things , which they themselves found out either by mere chance , or with very little Labour .
He has illustrated , and put past all Doubt , several Truths mentioned in Sir Isaac Newton 's Queries ; which tho ' believed by some of our Eminent Philosophers , were called in question by others of an inferior Class , who were not acquainted with those Facts and Experiments upon which Sir Isaac Newton bad built those Queries .
But not to detain my Reader too long in general Remarks , I proceed to give a short Account of each Chapter of our ingenious and indefatigable Philosopher 's Book .
CHA P. I. Experiments showing the Quantity of Moisture imbibd and perspir 'd by Plants and Trees .
OUR Author having covered with milled Lead a Garden-Pot , in which a Sun-flower was growing so as to leave only one Passage for Air to communicate with the Earth , and another to pour in Water to water the Plant , made several curious Experiments upon it ; from the Observation of which it appeared , 1 .
That the Plant , which weighed about 3th perspir 'd 30 Ounces in a 12 Hours Day , in the Month of July , 1724 .
But in a warm Night it perspir 'd only three Ounces , and nothing in a cold Night ; nay , sometimes it gained Weight by imbibing Dew .
2 .
That as the Area of the Surface of the Leaves was equal to 5616 square Inches , and the Area of the Roots only to 2286 square Inches ; the Moisture or Water imbibed by the Roots to supply the Perspiration at the Leaves must move faster in the Roots than thro ' Leaves , in the Proportion of 5 to 2 ; but in the Stem , whose transverse Section was one square Inch , faster than in the Leaves , in the Proportion of 5616 to 1 .
3 .
That by comparing his Experiments made on this and other Sun-flowers and Plants , with Dr. Keils Experiments mentioned in the Medicina Statica Britannica , it is evident , that a Man ( Surface for Surface ) perspires more than a Plant , in the Proportion of 3~ to 1 That the Quantity of the Food of a Man is to the Food of a Plant nearly as 7 to 2 ; but , Bulk for Bulk , the Plant imbibes into its Vessels 17 times more Fluid than the Quantity of the Chyle which enters into a Man 's Vessels ; and that because , as the Sap to Plants is less nutritive than Chyle to Man , it must be more in Quantity .
To suck in the more Sap , a Plant has a very great Surface , and thereby ( Perspiration promoting its imbibing of the Sap ) perspires 17 times more than a Man in proportion to their respective Weights .
4 .
That a Man or a Plant may perspire different Quantities , and yet continue in a healthy state .
A Man may perspire in 24 Hours from 1 1/ 2 ~ to 3 ~ ; and a Plant , which at one time perspir 'd but 16 Ounces , may without being less healthy , perspire 28 Ounces in the same time .
Mr. Hales observed , that in order to supply the Evaporation in the Leaves of a Vine , the Sap rose 152 Inches in 12 Hours , supposing the Sap to rise as dense as Water ; but if it rises in a Steam , which must at least be 10 times rarer than Water , then the Velocity of the Sap will be 10 times greater , and consequently rise at the rate of 125 Inches in an Hour .
N. B. That the Heat of the Sun should rarifie the Moisture of the Earth to that Degree , or a great deal more , to drive it into the Roots of Plants , is very probable from some Observations that Mr. H. Beighton F. R. S. and my self have made upon the Engine to raise Water by Fire ; whereby it appears that the Steam or Vapour of boiling Water is rarer than the Water from which it was produced , above 13000 times , when its Elasticity is equal to that of common Air .
Our Curious Experimenter , by his Observations upon 12 Evergreens , found , that they perspire much less than other Plants , and compares them to the exanguious Tribe of Animals ; which , as they perspire little , so they live the whole Winter without Food .
He likewise observed , what part of an Inch in Thickness is perspir 'd by a Man and by several Plants : By a Man in 24 Hours 1/ 50 part of an Inch ; and by the following Plants , viz. the Vine , the Sun-flower , the Cabbage , the Apple-Tree , the Lemon-Tree , 1/ 191 , 1/ 165 , 1/ 86 , 2 1/ 104 , 1/ 242 , part of an Inch in 12 Hours .
That when the perspiring Surface is diminished by taking away the Leaves , the power of imbibing is likewise diminished ; for the same Bough , which with the Leaves on imbibed 30 Ounces in 12 Hours , without the Leaves imbibed only ~ Ounce .
That Fruit will imbibe thro ' the Stem in proportion to its Surface , tried in an Apple , which imbibed as much as two Leaves equal to it in Surface .
That as the Leaves draw Nourishment to the Blossoms and Fruit , so they grow large first in those Places where the Blossoms are .
That Hops in the middle of an Hop-Ground thrive best , because they imbibe and perspire the least .
That by 9000 Hop-Vines growing on one Acre of Ground , 220 Gallons of Water are imbibed in a 12 Hours Day , which Quantity of Water is equal to a Depth of 1/ 101 part of an Inch spread on the said Surface .
That Fire-Blasts ( as the Gardiners call them ) may be occasioned by Solar Rays reflected from , or condensed by Clouds , or even collected by means of the dense Steams , which arise most plantitully in the middle of the Hop-Ground .
That the perspiring Matter of Trees is not protruded by the Power of the Vessels but exhaled by Heat , which he proves by several curious Experiments .
He made Trees imbibe Spirit of Wine , and other Liquors impregnated with Aromaticks , which gave a Smell and Taste to the Stalk , Leaves and Wood ; but could not penetrate to the Fruit , by reason of the Fineness of the Capillary Sap-Vessels near the Fruit , which assimilated to their own Substance the hightasted and perfumed Liquors .
Spirits killed the Trees , as far as they were imbibed ; but scented Waters did not .
He received in proper Vessels the Matter perspir 'd from Trees which is a tasteless Water ; but corrupts and stinks sooner than common Water .
He weighed three Cubick Feet of the same sort of ( Brick ) Earth , taken from the Surface of the Earth downwards , in July 1724 , the lightest of which was about twice the specific Gravity of Water : Then setting them to dry , found by the loss of Weight , how much Water they contained ; the greatest Quantity exhaled from a Cubick Foot being 10 lb , and the least , 6 lb , 11 Ounces .
N.B. The Weights he made use of were Avoirdupoids .
In order to find the Heat of the external Air in Green-Houses and in Stoves , as also the Degrees of Heat at several Depths in the Earth , and in hot Beds , he provided six Thermometers , whose Stems were of different lengths , but adjusted in their marked Degrees ; so that they began at the freezing Point , and ended at 90 Degrees , where the Heat was equal to the Heat of warm Water , that may be born by the Hand , without stirring it about , which is the middle Point between freezing , and the Heat of boiling Water .
By these Thermometers he observed the Degrees of Heat in several Cases to be as follows : Of the Blood =64 .
Of the Human Body =54 .
Milk from the Cow , and Heat fit to hatch Eggs = 55 .
Urine = 58 .
Temperate perate Air = 18 .
Greatest Heat of Sunshine in the Year 1724 = 74 .
And now this Year 1727 , it is at 76 .
The common Heat of the Noon-Sun in July = 50 .
Air in the Shade at the same time = 38 .
The Heat in May or June , the fittest for Plants , = from 17 to 30 Deg .
Autumnal Heat = from 10 to 20 A hot Bed , too hot for Plants , and about the Heat of Blood in Fevers = 75 .
Due Heat of a hot Bed = 56 .
Heat under a Glass at the same time = 34 ; and in the open Air = 17 .
Thermometers of this kind are now made by JOHN FOWLER in Swithin 's Alley near the Royal Exchange , which have the Names of the following Plants , opposite to their respective most kindly Degrees of Heat , viz. Melon-Thistle = 31 , Ananas = 29 , Piemento = 26 , Euphorbium = 24 , Cereus = 21 1/ 2 , Aloes = 19 , Indian Fig = 16 1/ 2 , Ficoides = 14 , Oranges = 12 , Myrtles = 9 .
He observed the Air to be cooler than the Earth out of the Sun , but hotter in Sunshine ; and that as soon as the Heat of the Sun is so far decreased , as no longer to give a brisk Agitation to ( or turn into Steam ) the Moisture of the Earth , the Leaves of the Plants fall off .
CHA P. II .
Experiments whereby to find the Force with which Trees imbibe Moisture .
OUR Author , in order to make a just Estimate of the Force with which the Moisture is drawn up by Plants and Trees , contrived an Aqueo-mercurial Gage in the following manner .
He took a Glass-Tube of an Inch Diameter , and about 8 Inches long , into one End of which he cemented a smaller Tube of about 1/ 4 of an Inch Diameter , and 18 Inches long ; into the other End he , successively , cemented a Root , or Branch , or Stem of a Tree or Plant , whose imbibing Force he wanted to find out , which he did in the following manner , viz. He turned the small End of the Gage upwards ; and having poured Water into it , down upon the Wood cemented in , he stopped the Orifice with his Finger ; then turning the little End downward again , he placed it into a Vessel of Mercury , before he took off his Finger ; which having done , he made his Observations .
For as the Plant imbibed the Water , the Mercury rose up in the small Tube , following the Water , and showing by its Height , the Force of imbibing : And for every Inch that the Mercury rose , Water would have risen 13 2/ 3 Inches , as it is so much lighter specifically than Water .
With this Gage our Author made Experiments upon Roots , Branches in an erect , Branches in an inverted Situation , large ones , as well as small , even to Sprigs of Plants and Fruits ; and found , that all of them imbibed the Water , so as to raise the Mercury in the small Tube , but to different Heights .
The Mercury was raised the quickest , and to the greatest height ( viz. 12 Inches in 7 Minutes ) by a Nonpareil-Branch two Foot high , with 20 Apples , and several lateral Branches , whose transverse Section was ~ of an Inch diameter .
It is to be observed , that the Mercury rose highest in a warm Sun ; but the whole force of imbibing was much greater than the Mercury could show ; because several Bubbles of Air came out of the Section of the Branch , as the Water went up , which happ'ned mostly in large Branches , which raised the Mercury but to a small height : But Branches stripped of their Leaves , hardly raised it all .
He made Peas imbibe Water , under the pressure of great Weights ; and found , that Peas , when swelled , sustained a Weight equal to 1600 lb , by their force of imbibing , or growing .
The force of imbibing , he shows , to be owing to the attractive power of the Particles of which Plants are made up ; all kinds of Wood ( even Cork ) when their Particles are well soaked , being heavier than Water .
N.B. It is very difficult to soak Cork so thoroughly as to make it heavier than Water : But I found it true , in a Tube where a Cork had been sealed up with Water for four Years , so as to be moveable in the said Water .
CHA P. III .
Experiments , showing the Force of the Rise of the Sap in the Vine , in the Bleeding Season .
MR. Hales , by a very curious Contrivance of Glass-Tubes , screwed and cemented at the top of one another , and altogether fixed to the Stem of a Vine , observed , that in the bleeding Season ( viz. inMarch and April ) the Sap will rise into the Tubes , by the force of the Roots and Stem , to very great heights , even above the Top of the Vine , as it did up to the Top of a Tube 25 Feet high ( in two Hours ) and ran out at the said Tube , tho ' 7 Feet above the Top of the Vine .
But the Force was such , that the Mercury , in a Gage ( in other Experiments ) was pushed up 32 1/ 2 Inches high , which was equivalent to above 43 Feet of Water .
This is a much greater Force than the Blood is impelled with in Animals : Which last Force he tried in the Crural Artery of an Horse , of a Dog , and of a Deer : For having tied them down alive upon their Backs , and fixed a Glass-Tube to the Crural Artery opened , he found , that in the Horse the Blood rose above 8 Feet , in the Dog about 7 Feet , and in the Deer not quite 6 : And these Heights are 5 , 7 , and 8 times less than the Height to which the Sap is raised by the Vine .
The Sap rises all Night , but most in the Morning of a warm Day ; but in very hot Weather it ceases to rise about Ten in the Morning , and then begins again to rise about 3 or 4 in the Afternoon ; and during the great Heat , Bubbles of Air drawn in by the Roots , come up the Tube from the Section of the Stem , the Sap in the Tube sinking and rising as the Weather is cloudy or clear , like the Liquor in a Thermometer .
That the Force was not only in the Root , but in the Stem and Branches , appeared by several Experiments , one of which was , that a Vine , at 44 Feet , 4 Inches in distance from the Root , pushed up Sap with the Force of a Column of 30 Feet , 11 Inches of Water .
By a nice Experiment he shows , that the Sap does not come indifferently thro ' all the Interstices of the Wood ; but is confined to its proper Vessels .
The Fibres , or Capillary Tubes , out of the bleeding Season , cannot protrude the Sap beyond their Orifices in the Section of the Stem ; but , assisted by the Perspiration of the Leaves , the Sap will rise in that very Branch , which would imbibe Water , if it was cut off , and a Tube applied to it with Water , poured in ; nay , it wou 'd also imbibe Water at the small End .
CHA P. IV .
Experiments , showing the ready lateral Motion of the Sap , and consequently the lateral Communication of the Sap-Vessels : The free Passage of it from the small Branches towards the Stem , as well as from the Stem to the Branches .
With an Account of some Experiments relating to the Circulation , or Non-Circulation of the Sap .
THE Analogy that there is in many respects between Plants and Animals , has made several ingenious Men imagine , that the Sap must circulate in Plants , as the Blood does in Animals ; and , fond of the Hypothesis , they have contented themselves with a few Experiments that seem to confirm the Notion : And instead of making a sufficient Number of Experiments riments and Observations , and comparing them impartially , they have supplied the rest by Conjectures , and endeavoured to support their Hypothesis by other new Suppositions .
It is upon this account that they have supposed particular Vessels ( like Arteries ) to carry up the Sap from the Roots to the Extremities or Leaves , and others ( like Veins ) to bring down the Sap back again to the Roots ; imagining the former to be chiefly in the middle of the Wood , and the latter to come down between the Bark and the Wood : But they did not consider , that a Plant is very differently nourished from an Animal , and therefore requires a very different Mechanism and Structure for its Growth and Support .
Our Author has disproved the above-mentioned Opinion , by several Experiments and Observations ; the chief of which are the following .
1 .
Having cut a long Notch in a growing Branch , which had Leaves on , he observed , that the Notch was moist at the Bottom towards the Root , and not at the Top .
2 .
He made the same Experiment with another Branch set in Water , which imbibed the Liquor at a transverse Section below the Notch , and found the Notch as before .
3 .
He observed , that in the Spring the Sap rises plentifully between the Bark and the Wood , and that chiefly in Vines ; and that if a Ringlet of Bark be taken off all round in bleeding Trees , the Bleeding abates mostly in the upper part of the bare place .
4 .
The Sap will move any way by the Attraction of the same Capillary Tubes , and Perspiration of the Leaves ; shown by an Apple Tree-Branch , which drew up Moisture plentisully at the small End ; by a Tree , which throve , tho ' its Root was taken out of the Ground , receiving its Nourishment only from two other Trees , to which it was inarch 'd , and from which it was suspended ; as also by a Bough with two Branches cut off from a Tree , one Branch of which out of the Water preserved its Verdure , and received its Nourishment from the other Branch immersed in Water , whilst another Bough of the same sort without that help , immediately withered .
That there is a lateral Motion of the Sap thro ' Vessels , whereby the longitudinal Capillary Fibres communicate with one another , he proved chiefly by the following Experiment , viz. He cut four long Notches , one above another , ( but looking towards the several Cardinal Points ) in a pretty large Branch , whose Section some Inches below the said Notches , was immersed in Water ; and found , that by the Attraction of the Fibres and Perspiration of the Leaves , the Moisture rose plentifully , notwithstanding that the Continuity of the greatest part ( if not of all ) the longitudinal Fibres was destroyed by those deep Notches .
This lateral Motion may also be deduced , from observing , that Branches will grow out of Roots , and thrive very well ; and that Elders , Sallows , Willows , Briars and Vines will grow , by putting either End of a Stem or Branch into the Ground .
He observes , that there is indeed , an alternate Receding and progressive Motion of the Sap , which recedes when cold Weather and Rain succeeds hot Sunshine , the Trees then imbibing the Rains and Dews which fall upon the Leaves ; but upon the return of the hot Weather , the Perspiration is renewed , and the Sap rises again .
This is sufficient to account for Jessamine and the Passion-Tree receiving a gilded Tincture below the gilded inoculated Bud ; which has been given as an Instance of the Circulation of the Sap : But the Ilex grafted on the English Oak , as it keeps ( whilst the Oak sheds ) its Leaves in Winter , shows that the Sap does not circulate .
CHA P. V. Experiments , whereby to prove , that a great Quantity of Air is inspired by Plants .
OUR Sagacious Author makes it appear in this Chapter , that Plants imbibe a great deal of Air , not only that which comes up with the Sap from the Earth ( the Earth containing Air both in an elastick and in a fixed state , ) but also take it in thro ' the old Eyes and Bark , especially at Night , when the Plants are in an imbibing State .
The Experiments whereby he proves the said Assertion , are chiefly these , viz. 1 .
An open , empty , Glass-Tube set upright , had an Apple-Branch cemented in its upper end , the other End set in a Vessel of Water ; upon which the Air went up into the Branch out of the Tube , as appeared by the rising of Water into the Tube .
2 .
A Cylinder of Birch of about 1/ 4 Inch Diameter , with the Bark on , cemented in the middle , to the Top of an Air-Pump Receiver , so as to fill up the Hole at the Top of the said Receiver , had its lower End immersed in a Vessel of Water under the Receiver , upon the Plate of the Air-Pump .
Then in working the Pump , Air came out at the Bottom of the said Cylinder , ( bubbling up thro ' the Water in the Vessel ) whether erect or inverted , cem entedclose on the Top-Section , or not , and whether the old Eyes in the Sides were cemented up , or left bare , the Bark it self being pervious to Air ; but then it took in less Air than when the old Eyes and upper Section were open .
3 .
When Water ( poured into a Cylindrick Glass fixed over the Receiver ) covered that part of the Wood which was out of the Receiver , no Air came thro ' the Bottom ; and when the Water was taken away from covering the upper part of the Wood , the Air did not come in thro ' the Bottom , till the Top of the Cylinder of Wood had its Bark well dried .
4 .
He observes with Dr. Grew , that the Mouths of the Air-Vessels are very visible in the Leaves of Bines , and in the Trunks of several Plants , with a Microscope ; and in some even without a Glass .
5 .
In making Experiments upon young Shoots , as their Vessels are full of Sap , he did not find that the Air passed into or thro ' them ; ( the Air in them being probably become fixed ) but it came in freely at the Roots applied to the Air-Pump in the same manner as in the Piece of Birch .
CHA P. VI .
A Specimen of an Attempt to analyze the Air , by a great Variety of Chymio-Statical Experiments , which show , in how great a proportion Air is wrought into the Composition of Animal , Vegetable , and Mineral Substances ; and withal how readily it resumes its former elastick State , when in the Dissolution of those Substances it is disengaged from them .
THE excellent Mr. Boyle , among his many Discoveries , found , that Air was producible from Vegetables , by putting Grapes , Plums , Goose-berries , Cherries , Peas , and several other sorts of Grain into exhausted and unexhausted Receivers , where they continued several Days , emitting great Quantities of Air .
But Mr. Boyle did not show the way to know exactly how much Air a certain Quantity of Vegetable Substance will produce .
The incomparable Sir Isaac Newton ( Query 31 , of his Opticks ) observes , that ` ` true permanent Air arises by Fermentation or Heat , from those Bodies which the Chymists call fixed , whose Particles adhere by a strong Attraction , and are not therefore separated and rarefied without Fermentation .
Those Particles receding from one another with the greatest repulsive force , and being most difficultly brought together , which upon Contact were most strongly united .
And ( Query 30 .
) Dense Bodies by Fermentation rarify into several sorts of Air , and this Air by Fermentation , and sometimes without it , returns into dense Bodies .
Mr. Hales , from the Consideration of this , and some of his own Experiments , concluded , that there must be Air not only in an elastick , but in a fixed State , in Vegetables and other Substances , and therefore that the Air-Pump wou 'd not be sufficient to get all the Air out of Bodies : For which reason he contrived ways of getting the Air out of several Substances by Fire ( distilling them , ) and by Fermentation , and made use of a very ingenious , but simple and certain Method , of measuring the Quantity of Air generated from(or absorbed by ) the several kinds of Bodies upon which he made Experiments .
The Description of his Hydrostatical Gages , and the Manner of making his Experiments , I cannot give better , or shorter , than in his own Words ( See Page 157 .
) In order to make an Estimate of the Quantity of Air which arose from any Body by Distillation or Fusion , I first put the Matter which I intended to distil , into a small Retort r ( Figure 4 .
) and then at a cemented fast to it the GlassVessel a b , which was very capacious at b , with a Hole in the bottom .
I bound a Bladder over the Cement , which was made of Tobacco-pipe-Clay and Bean-flower , well mixed with some Hair , tying over all four small Sticks , which served as Splinters to strengthen the Joint ; sometimes , instead of the GlassVessel a b , I made use of a large Bolt-head , which had a round Hole cut , with a red-hot Iron-ring , at the bottom of it ; through which Hole was put one Leg of an inverted Syphon , which reached up as far as z Matters being thus prepared , holding the Retort uppermost , I immersed the Bolt-head into a large Vessel of Water , to a , the top of the Bolt-head ; as the Water rushed in at the bottom of the Bolt-head , the Air was driven out through the Syphon : When the Bolthead head was full of Water to z , then I closed the outward Orifice of the Syphon with the End of my Finger , and at the same time drew the other Leg of it out of the Bolt-head , by which means the Water continued up to z , and could not subside .
Then I placed under the Bolt-head , while it was in the Water , the Vessel xx ; which done , I lifted the Vessel xx , with the Bolt-head in it , out of the Water , and tied a waxed-Thread at z to mark the height of the Water : And then approached the Retort gradually to the Fire , taking care to screen the whole Bolt-head from the Heat of the Fire .
The Descent of the Water in the Bolt-head showed the Sums of the Expansion of the Air , and of the Matter which was distilling : The Expansion of the Air alone , when the lower part of the Retort was beginning to be red-hot , was at a Medium , nearly equal to the Capacity of the Retort , so that it then took up a double Space ; and in a white and almost melting Heat , the Air took up a triple space or something more : For which reason the least Retorts are best for these Experiments .
The Expansion of the distilling Bodies was sometimes very little , and sometimes many times greater than that of the Air in the Retort , according to their different natures .
When the Matter was sufficiently distilled , the Retort , &amp;c. was gradually removed from the Fire , and when cool enough , was carried into another Room , where there was no Fire .
When all was thoroughly cold , either the following Day , or sometimes 3 or 4 Days after , I marked the Surface of the Water y , where it then stood ; if the Surface of the Water was below z , then the empty Space between y and z , showed how much Air was generated , or raised from a fixed to an elastick State , by the Action of the Fire in Distillation : But if y the Surface of the Water was above z , the space between z and y , which was filled with Water , showed the Quantity of Air which had been absorbed in the Operation , i. e. was changed from a repelling elastick , to a fixed State , by the strong Attraction of other Particles , which I therefore call absorbing .
When I would measure the Quantity of this new generated Air , I separated the Bolt-head from the Retort ; and putting a Cork into the small End of the Bolt-head , I inverted it , and poured in Water to z. Then from another Vessel ( in which I had a known Quantity of Water by Weight ) I poured in Water to y ; so the Quantity of Water which was wanting , upon weighing this Vessel again , was equal to the Bulk of the new generated Air .
I chose to measure the Quantities of Air , and the Matter from whence it arose , by one common Measure of cubick Inches , estimated from the specific Gravities of the several Substances , that thereby the Proportion of one to the other might the more readily be seen .
I made use of the following means to measure the great Quantities of Air , which were either raised and generated , or absorbed by the Fermentation arising from the Mixture of Variety of solid and fluid Substances , whereby I could easily estimate the surprising Effects of Fementation on the Air , viz. I put into the Bolt-head b ( Fig. 5 .
) the Ingredients , and then run the long Neck of the Bolt-head into the deep cylindrical Glass a y , and inclined the inverted Glass a y , and Bolt-head almost horizontally in a large Vessel of Water , that the Water might run into the Glass a y ; when it was almost up to a , the top of the Bolt head , I then immersed the Bottom of the Bolt head , and lower part y of the cylindrical Glass under Water , raising at the same time the End a uppermost .
Then before I took them out of the Water , I set the Bolt-head and lower part of the cylindrical Glass ay into the earthen Vessel xx full of Water , and having lifted all out of the great Vessel of Water , I marked the Surface z of the Water in the Glass a y. If the Ingredients in the Bolt-head , upon fermenting , generated Air , then the Water would fall from z to y , and the empty space z y , was equal to the Bulk of theQuantity of Air generated : But if the Ingredients upon fermentation , did absorb , or fix the active Particles of Air , then the Surface of the Water would ascend from z to n , and the Space z n , which was filled with Water , was equal to the Bulk of Air , which was absorbed by the Ingredients , or by the Fume arising from them : When the Quantities of Air , either generated or absorbed , were very great , then I made use of large chemical Receivers , instead of the Glass a y : But if these Quantities were very small , then instead of the Bolt-head , I used a deep cylindrical Glass , or a common Beer-Glass inverted , and placed under it a Vial or Jelly-Glass , taking care that the Water did not come at the Ingredients in them : Which was easily prevented , by drawing the Water up under the inverted Glass to what height I pleased , by means of a Syphon .
I measured the Bulk of the Spaces zy or z n , by pouring in a known Quantity of Water , as in the foregoing Experiment , and making an allowance for the Bulk of the Neck of the Bolt-head , within the Space z y. By our Author 's Experiments made upon several Substances , it appeared , that some by Distillation , and some by Fermentation , wou 'd generate Air , others wou 'd absorb it ; and some again , wou 'd absorb Air at one time , and generate it at another ; and oftentimes that more Air was generated by Fermentation than by Fire .
I have made a Table , to show at one View what the Effects were .
Bodies which generaBodies which abBodies which someted Air .
sorb 'd Air .
times generated , and sometimes absorbed Air .
Hog 's Blood .
Salt of Sal ArmoGun-Powder .
Tallow .
niac .
Apples mashed .
Fallow-Deer 's Horn .
Phosphorus .
Filings of Steel and Oyster-shells .
Acid Spirits .
Aqua fortis .
A Piece of Oak .
Lime .
Scurvygrass-Leaves Indian-Wheat .
Pulvis urens .
Sal Armoniac mixed Peas .
Brimstone-Matches with Oil of Vitriol .
Mustard-Seed .
burning .
Spirit of Turpentine Amber .
A burning Candle .
mixed with Oil of Tobacco .
Living Animals.e.g .
Vitriol .
Oil of Aniseed .
a Rat and a Cat. Vinegar poured on Oil of Olives .
Humane Lungs in Oyster-shells .
Honey .
breathing .
Limon-Juice .
New-castle-Coal .
Filings of Iron with Ale .
Wax .
Sp. of Nitre .
Malaga-Raisins .
Earth .
Filings of Iron with Salt .
Spt .
of Hartshhorn .
N. B. Most of the aAntimony .
Filings of Iron with bovemention 'd SubPyrites from WaltonSpirit of Sal Arstances were in an Heath .
moniac .
absorbing State in Sea-Salt .
N. B. When a lighted Cancold Weather .
Nitre .
dle is put into that Air Calculus humanus .
which had been fouled Vitriol .
( by a Candle burning and going out in it ) tho ' it Bones .
burned but a fisth part of Red Lead .
theTime that it had done before , it absorbed as much Chalk .
Air ; which shows that Air Wheat and Barley .
loaded with Vapours is Filings of ~ with Oil more apt to lose its Eof Vitriol and Water .
lasticity , than clear Air .
As several Persons may be willing to try a great many of Mr Hale 's Experiments , I thought proper to mention here , that the Experiments on Substances that generate Air , made with the Glass-Retort , are difficult and tedious ; but a Musket-Barrel with the Touch-hole welded up , and then turned into a Semi-circle , makes a very commodious Iron-Retort , whose close End being put into the Fire of a Smith 's Forge , will be so heated with a little blowing , as to get the Air out of any Substance in a very little time ; having first twisted on upon the open End of the Barrel one End of a Leaden Syphon ( which will be very tight , with only a little Sheep 's Leather between ) whilst the other End of the Syphon goes up a little way into an inverted Chemical Receiver filled with Water .
As the Air gets out of the Substances distilled , it comes bubbling up thro ' the Water , which it depresses by its Bulk .
N. B. Antimony and Sulphur must not be made use of in this Barrel ; because they will demetallize the Iron ; nor Lead , because it will sweat out thro ' the Iron .
It appeared by several Experiments , that the Air which was got out of the Substances above-mention 'd , was true permanent Air ; for it had , and , after many days , continued to have , both the Weight and Elasticity of common Air , of which a cubick Inch weighs 1/ 7 of a Grain , and after it had been compressed , it wou 'd expand again to its former Dimensions .
Most of that Air had a poisonous Quality , a Sparrow dying as it was put into the Air made of Oak , 11 days after the said Air had been made .
So Mr. Boyle found the Air drawn by the Air-Pump from Bread and some other Substances , to have a poisonous Quality .
Air generated by Indian wheat and by Peas , and most other Substances , flashed when the Candle was The most solid Parts of Animals or Vegetables commonly generated most Air : Of Vegetables , Oak and Peas generated the most Air ; Oak ~ of its Weight , and 216 times its Bulk , and the Peas more than 1/ 3 of their Weight and 396 times their Bulk .
But of all Substances , a Stone taken from the Bladder of a Man generated most Air , namely a Quantity of Air 645 times the Bulk , and above half the Weight of the Stone .
Our indefatigable Philosopher , to judge the better of the result of these Experiments , contrived a Gage with a Tube sealed at one end , and having the other ( open End ) immersed in Mercury covered with Honey , which in the rise of the Mercury in the Glass wou 'd leave a mark to show how far the Mercury had risen , ( See the Description and Draught of it in his Book , Page 205 ; ) by the force of compressed Air or of the Air that is generated from several Substances whilst confined ; and proposes this Gage for measuring the Depth of the Sea , which must answer better than any Contrivance hitherto tried .
From observing that it wou 'd require a Force 48 times greater than that of the Atmosphere , to compress the Air that comes out of an Apple into the same space again ( which in an Apple of 16 square Inches Surface , is equal to 11776 Pounds , ) he concludes that the greatest part of the said Air must be in a fixed State , and preserved in that State by the Attraction of the Particles of Air and Apple in their Cohesion ; otherwise Fruits and all other Substances that contain much Air , wou 'd be torn to pieces by its repellent Force , with a greater Explosion than that of Gunpowder ; and therefore that the Air when extricated , does not consist of fibrous Particles wound up like little Springs , but of Particles which do not touch one another , but have a repellent Force , which is reciprocally proportionable to the Distances of the Particles : Agreeable to what Sir Isaac Newton says in his Opticks , Quer .
31 .
` ` The Particles , when they are shaken off from Bodies by Heat or Fermentation , so soon as they are beyond the reach of the Attraction of the Body , receding from it , as also from one another , with great Strength , and keeping at distance , so as sometimes to take up above a million of times more space than they did before in the form of a dense Body ; which vast Contraction and Expansion seems unintelligible , by feigning the Particles of Air to be springy and ramous , or rolled up like Hoops , or by any other means than by a repulsive Power .
Our Author made some Experiments upon a Calve 's Lung 's , which help to confirm Dr. James Keil 's Assertion , viz. that the inner Surface of a Man 's Lungs is equal to about 150 * square Feet , which is about 10 times more than the Surface of the whole Body .
Then by several Experiments and curious Observations , found , that of the Air which is inspired by the Lungs in an Hour ( viz. 48000 cubick Inches ) about 353 Inches , or 100 Grains in Weight are destroyed in that Time .
He shows , that the reason that Sulphureons Air is pernicious , is because Sulphureous Air loses its Elasticity so fast , that the Lungs will subside in it , and the Blood consequently stagnate .
He concludes , that when the Particles of such Air are united into pretty large Moleculae in a fixed State , they are too big to enter the Vesicles of the Lungs .
* Since my making this Abstract , Mr. Hales told me , that the inner Surface of the Lungs is double the Quantity here expressed , which was so set down in his Book by mistake .
He shows the Mistake of those that supposed the Air did not lose its Elasticity , but its Vivifying Spirit by Vapours , by an Experiment made upon a Dog , into whose Lungs he drove by Force that effaete Air which the Dog by his own Action cou 'd not draw into his Lungs ; and whereas the Dog , then , was just expiring by the subsiding of his Lungs , he kept him alive by the sorcible Impulsion of that very Air , as long as he cou 'd blow up the Dog 's Lungs with it .
He makes it appear , that a close warm Air without a Communication with the outward Air , to carry off the Vapours , must be unfit for breathing long ; and therefore condemns the use of German Stoves .
That when Animals are killed by Lightning without any visible Wound , it is because the Sulphureous , Steams have destroyed the Elasticity of the Air about them ; as appears by dissecting such Animals , whose Lungs are always found compressed together without any Air in them .
The same also appears in Men that have been killed by Damps in Mines .
Then he gives the Description of an Instrument whereby 4 or 5 Quarts of the same Air , ( which in the common way can serve one Man to breathe very little above a Minute ) may serve 8 1/ 2 Minutes to breathe , by drawing in the Air which has been in the Lungs thro ' 4 Diaphragms of Flannel dipped in a Lixivium of highly calcined Salt of Tartar , and afterwards dried , and blowing back the same Air in such manner that it may at every Inspiration return thro ' the said Diaphragms ; which is done by means of two Valves .
The Moisture and Sulphureous Vapours of the Air are by this Contrivance stopped in passing thro ' the Flannel , and thereby the Air continues wholesome much longer than it

