305 Longitudinal Symmetry in Phanerogamia .
Table VI.\#151 ; F3 from Case 1 in the Mating Crimson Delila x Yellow Crimsonstriped .
Number of f2 individuals .
Colour of individuals .
Colours in F3 .
Crimson .
Crimson delila .
Yellow .
5 Crimson + + + 3 \#187 ; ... ... ... + ... + 2 \#187 ; * . . .
+ 2 " delila ... 4* 2 \gt ; 1 \gt ; 1 + 8 Yellow ... ... + Longitudinal Symmetry in Phanerogamia .
By Percy Groom , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.L.S. ( Communicated by Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received January 24 , \#151 ; Read February 21 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) The first object of this communication is to put forward a simple graphic method of recording measurements concerning the longitudinal symmetry of plants , and to test its efficiency as a means of solving morphological problems .
The method is as follows:\#151 ; Measurements of the successive internodes of a stem are made , and are recorded on squared paper as successive ordinates ; the resultant curve is termed the internode curve .
The longitudinal distances apart of other members are dealt with in the same manner , and ranged into other curves .
The second object of the paper is to describe the general and particular results obtained by use of the method .
In a typical herb , the internode curve of the main axis is a regular and characteristic ascending-descending one ( see Curve 1 in fig. 1 ) , while those of Fio .
1 .
Dr. P. Groom .
[ Jan. 24 , the successive branches , commencing at the base of the plants and ascending the main stem , gradually change from the ascending-descending curve to a purely descending one ( see .
Curves 2\#151 ; 6 in fig. 1 ) , or tend to do so .
It is this gradual change in the internode curve of the successive branches that explains the two maxima in the internode lengths ( and possibly in the rate of growth ) met with in branches .
By reference to plants of different habit , and growing under different climates or in different habitats ( including water ) , it is proved that these internode curves are characteristic of the species , and inherent though liable to disturbance by external conditions .
Alternate-leaved Chenopodiacece , both in the main axis and in the branches , display a remarkable periodic zig-zag in the internode curve ( see the curve printed plain in fig. 2 ) .
By connecting the alternate ordinates , this can be analysed into two consistent and often regular sub-curves ( see the dotted ourves in fig. 2 ) ; one of these sub-curves is the " internode sub-curve , " and Fia .
2 .
the other the " displacement sub-curve .
" By comparison of the curves of the main axis and branches of Chenopodiacese and typical herbs , also between those of alternate-leaved and opposite-leaved Chenopodiacese , as well as by other means , it is shown that the displacement sub-curve represents the distances up which one leaf at each successive node has been relatively displaced from a primitively opposite arrangement .
Both sub-curves of the main axis assume the ascending-descending form , but in the successively higher branches the internode sub-curve changes from the ascending-descending form to a purely descending one , while the displacement sub-curve tends to do likewise , or does so , at a later stage .
This inherent peculiarity of the chenopodiaceous internodes sheds light upon the affinity of the family to the Caryophyllacese , whose opposite leaves do not develop simultaneously : and there are indications that at least several , if not all , of the families comprising the Centrospermse are opposite-leaved in reality , or , like the Chenopodiacese , in design .
To test this theory of displacement , reference was made to the admitted 1907 .
] Longitudinal Symmetry in Phanerogamia .
case of displacements of branches above their leaf-axils in Boraginacece .
In this connection , the curve was constructed by recording as successive ordinates the heights of the successive branches above their subtending leaves .
The resultant displacement curve of the branches is of startling regularity , and conforms in type with the displacement sub-curve of the leaves on the chenopodiaceous main stem .
One significant point is that these old-established fixed ( hereditary ) displacements in Chenopodiacese and Boraginaceae follow the same rule in respect to their distribution and relative dimensions as that formulated by JDe Vries in respect to anomalies and monstrosities .
The Boraginacese are shown to be probably opposite-leaved in design , though alternate-leaved by displacement , and are thus brought into closer connection with the Labiatse .
In the advanced case of Solanum Dulcamara , the graphic method showed for the first time that the familiar displacements of leaves high up the axis are anticipated lower down by similar ones .
Investigations of slighter or more fluctuating leaf-displacements in Lysimachia vulgaris , Veronica virginiana , and ( Enothera , showed that where the phyllo-taxis is sometimes cyclic , and at other times acyclic , on the same axis , individual , or species , the internode curve becomes irregular when any of the leaves are alternate or sub-opposite .
This irregular curve could be analysed into consistent sub-curves when the displacements were slight .
But in some instances of more considerable displacements I failed to accomplish this analysis , partly because the number of leaves originally associated with a node is apt to vary at different 'points of the same axis .
The irregularity of the curve is due to two causes : ( 1 ) the method of measurement rigidly adopted , namely , from one leaf to the next one , may obviously lead to a merely seeming diminution in length of an internode ; ( 2 ) but , beyond this , the displacement of a leaf causes a true ( relative ) abbreviation of the internode up which it takes place .
The irregularity of the internode curve in these cases , and in others investigated , is of import in indicating that the construction of an internode curve of merely one specimen ( living or fossil ) may suffice to show that the phyllotaxis in the family varies from acyclic to cyclic , just as similar treatment of one axis of a herb ( living or fossil ) may show at once whether the axis be a main one or a branch and , if the latter , it may give some information as to its insertion on the mother axis .
Incidentally , observations were made on the double-leaves of Lysimachia vulgaris and Bhinanthus , and on the increase and decrease in the number of leaves at a node in these plants .
The morphological significance of the observed facts is discussed .
Of particular interest and novelty was one case 308 Longitudinal Symmetry in .
in Phinanthus , in which the opposite phyllotaxis changed to alternate by a process which some botanists would describe as one of the concrescenoe of the two opposite leaves .
The observations just mentioned , as well as some regarding displacements , more or less clearly indicated than when phyllotaxis is cyclic in design , alternate internodes , nodes , and associated displacements are more closely correlated than are successive ones .
This may imply that morphogenous impulses travel along orthostichies , but it at least sheds light upon a number of varied morphological problems .
The theory of the construction of the phanerogamous stem is discussed , and stress is laid upon the fact that the longitudinal displacement of leaves demonstrates that internodes may be of different phylogenetic age and lineage , and are , therefore , not serially homologous segments , The interpretation of these displacements adopted in this paper would also imply that the stem is partly constituted of tissue originally appertaining to leaves , so that " stem " and " leaf " are not sharply distinguished members .
The graphic method was also tested by reference to other morphological problems .
It does not afford the means of distinguishing between a sympode and a monopode in the cases of the sympodes of Petunia and Myosotis , though the curves harmonise with the accepted view .
But more decisive results were obtained with the tendrilled axis of Ampelopsis hederacea ; here the complex , periodic , yet apparently irregular , internode curve could be analysed only into three consistent sub-curves ( by joining every third ordinate ) ; and this exactly corresponds to the interpretation of structure adopted by Eichler and others , while it directly conflicts with rival theories .

