1 .
" On the frequent occurrence of Vegetable Parasites in the Hard Structures of Aninmals .
" By Professor A. K6LL KE R , of Wiirzburg .
( See p. 95 .
) II .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-lBases."-No .
VI .
Phosphammionium-Compounds .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. ( See p. 100 .
) lIl .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
VI .
New Derivatives of Phenylan'iine and Ethylamiiie .
By A. W. HOFMANN , F.R.S. ( See p. 104 .
) IV .
" 'On the Behaviour of the Aldehydes with Acids .
" By A. GEUTHEER , Esq. , and R. CARTMELL , Esq. ( For Abstract , see p. 108 .
) V. " On the Action of Acids on Glycol " ( Second Notice ) .
By Dr. MAXWELL SIMPSON .
( See p. 114 .
) VI .
" Experiments on some of the Various Circumstances influencing CutaneoIns Absorption .
" By AGUT-rrUS WALLER , M.-D .
F.R &amp; S , ( See pP .
122 .
) V Xe O VTI .
" On the Application of the Calculus of Probabilities to the results of measures of the Position and Distance of Double Stars .
" By The LIORD WRJOTTESLEY , V.P.R.S. ( See p. 133 .
) VIII .
" Report of Scientific Researches made during the late Arctic Voyage of the Yacht ' Fox , ' in search of the Franklin Expedition .
" By Captain M'CLINTOCK , R.N. Conmunicated by General SABINE , R.A. , Treas .
&amp; V.P.R.S. Received Septem-ber 23 , 1859 .
SIR , -I have the hoonour to acquaiint you for the information of the President and Council of the Royal Society , that my voyage has happily terminated , and that our exertions have met with as great a measure of success as the most sanguine amongst us could expect , But as the general result of Lady Franklin 's " Final Search " will doubtless be made public before this letter reaches you , my object is simply to acquaint you with the nature and extent of such observations of scientific interest as we have been enabled to make .
My last communication , dated 5th May , 1858 , informed you of the unfortunate circumstances which led to our first Arctic winter being spent in an ice-drift out of Baffin 's Bay .
During the winter of 1858-59 we were frozen up in a secuLre anchorage in Brentford Bay , which I have named " 'Port Kennedy ; " it is in Latitude 72 ' Ol ' N. and Longitude 940 ]5'W.r Here a magnetic observatory was built , the instruments supplied to us set up , and hourly observations continued during the initerval between autumn and spring travelling .
Fortunately I was able to carry with me a9 -ilich dip-circle upon my journey to the Great Fish River this spring , and embraced every opportunity of making observations with it , many of them in the immediate vicinity of the point of maximum inclination .
Indeed it gives me much satisfaction to state that I believe our entire series of magnetical observations will be found complete in as far as we were provided with the necessary instrunents and favoured with the opportunities of using them .
Meteorological records have beenl carefully kept throughout the voyage , and the " W6Neather Books " supplied by Admiral FitzRoy filled up ; also , comparisons of temperatures shown by a black-bulb thermometer in the sun 's rays , and by others suspended against black and white surfaces , with those of a thermometer in the shade , were frequently made during two years .
Dr. Joseph Hooker having suggested that some observations shouLld be made on the temperature of the soil at different depths , such were registered at short intervals throughout the winter and spring of 1858-59 .
Observations upon the amount of ozone present in the atmosphere were made during the winter and spring of 1857-58 , and also for eleven months at Port Kennedy , 1858-59 .
Whenever opportunity offered , the polariscope , supplied at the instance of Professor Stokes , was applied to halos , &amp;c. , and the amount and plane of polarization noticed .
The direction of the Aurora and its influence on an electroscope , together with the periods of maximum and minimum intensity of atmospheric electricity , were observed .
The periods of maximum and minimum barometric pressure were recorded , as deduced from hourly and two-hourly observations .
A series of experiments was made on the change produced in seawater by congelation at different temperatures .
Deep-sea temperatures and specific gravities were taken when opportunity offered ; also of the surface of the sea constantly .
The great comet was seen at Port Kennedy , and a few angular measurements taken for determining its change of position , at intervals between 13th September and 8th October .
Selections of native plants , from Port Kennedy and from Disco , have been brought home in Wardian cases , for the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew .
Considerable collections have also been made in the various branches of Natural History ; and Geological specimens from the lands visited have been brought home for scientific friends of the Expedition , who will speedily make public any interesting results : for these collections , and also for many of the observations made during the voyage , I am chiefly indebted to the Surgeoni , David Walker , M.D. A series of Tidal observations was taken at Port Kennedy ; these will be discussed by the Rev. Professor Haughton , F.R.S. , of Trinity College , Dublin .
m Our geographical discoveries amount to nearly 800 miles of coastline ; they are interesting not only in coinsequence of their extent and the important position they occupy , but also from the great difficulty of access , whether by sea or lalnd , to this newly explored area .
With the exception of a comparatively small and unimportalnt part of the shore of Victoria Land , the whole of the coasts of Arctic America are now accurately delineated , My sledge journey to the Magnetic Pole in February completed the discovery of the coastline of the Americain Continent .
The insularity of Prince of Wales Land was ascertained , and the discovery of its coastline completed , by a sledge party under the direction of the Sailing-master , Captain Allen Younlrg , as also the west coast of North Somerset between Bellot Strait and Four River Bay .
Lieutenant Hobson , R.N. and his sledge party completed the discovery of the west coast of King William 's Island , picking up the Franklin records ; whilst with my own I explored its eastern and southern shores , returning northward by its west shore from the Great Fish River .
Repeated attempts were made last year before the close of the navigable season , to reach open water visible in the broad channel westward of North Somerset ; but a narrow barrier of ice across the western outlet of Bellot Strait , and there hemmed in so firmly by numerous islets as to continue unbroken throughoutt the autumn gales , foiled my sanguine hope of carrying the I Fox , ' according to my original plan , southward to the Great Fish River , passing east of King William 's Island and from thence to some wintering position upon Victoria Lanid .
From a very careful scrutiny of the ice during my journeys over it in February , March , April , May , and June , it was evident that in this western sea it was all broken up ; whilst eastward and southward of King William 's Island there was hardly any ice last autumn ; and therefore in all probability we saw , in that barrier of ice some three or fou1r miles wide , the only obstruction to our complete success .
The wide channel between Prinice of Wales Land and Victoria Land , ulpon which I have conferred the name of Lady Franklin , admits a vast and continuous stream of very heavy ocean-formed ice from the north-west , which presses uponl the western face of King William 's Island and chokes up Victoria Strait .
I cannot divest myself of the belief that had Sir John Franklin been aware of the existence of a channel eastward of King William 's Land ( so named until 1854 ) , and sheltered from this impenetrable ice-stream , his ships would safely and speedily have passed through it in 1846 , and from thence with comparative ease to Behring Strait .
Having enumerated the different subjects which have engaged the attentioni of the officers and myself and have employed much of our time , it only remains for me to express a hope that these will be found to be in some measure ajustification of any moderate expectations which the President and Council of the Royal Society may have formed at the time of my departure from England in 1857 , or at least to afford proof that my desire to be rendered useful in the advancement of science has in no degree abated since then .
I am , Sir , your obedient Servant , F. L. MCCLINTOCK , To the Secretary of the Royal Society .
Captain R.N.

