[ 305 ] XIII .
On Gasterolichenes :a New Type of the group By George Massee .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , F.R.S. , Director , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received May 5 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1887 .
[ Plate 25 .
] Until recently the time-honoured division of Thallogens into three primary groups , Algce , Fungi , and Lichenes , was retained , the most prominent morphological features of the last group consisting in the vegetative portion being composed of slender achlorophyllose threads mixed with chlorophyll-producing cells or gonidia , and the spores produced in asci .
It was assumed that the gonidia were in organic continuity with the colourless threads , an assumption challenged by Schwendener , * who considers a lichen as a combination of a fungus and an alga , an idea now widely entertained , nevertheless , curiously enough , numbering amongst its opponents most of the leading lichenologists and mycologists of the day , most of whom , it is important to remember , are distinguished as systematists rather than as biologists .
Later researches have placed almost beyond doubt the truth of Schwendener 's theory .
Bornet+ has shown that in numerous instances the gonidia can with certainty be referred to some species of Algae , and further succeeded in building up a lichen synthetically by sowing the spores of Parmelia parietinaupon Protococcus .
Stahl| also , by growing the spores and gonidia ( pleurococcus ) of Endocarpon produced the lichen which bore perithecia and spermogonia .
The same author has also demonstrated the presence of sexual organs of reproduction in a gelatinous lichen , Collema phyllum , the female portion resembling the carpogonium , with its trichogyne , met with in the Floridece .
Spermatia , produced in the spermogonia , are the fertilising elements .
The discovery by Mattirolo S of a second type of lichen structure , characterised by having the spores borne on basidia , the latter compacted into a * " Untersuchungen liber den Flechtenthallus , " in Nageli 's ' Beitrage znr Wissensch .
Botanik , ' 1860 , 1862 , and 1868 .
See also 'Flora , ' vol. 55 , 1872 ( Nos. 11-15 ) .
f " Reclierches sir les Gonidies des Lichens , " 'Ann .
Sci. Not .
( . .
) , ' yol .
17 , 1873 .
+ ' Beitr .
sir Entwickel.-Gesch .
der Flechten , ' 1877 .
S " Contribuzioni alio Studio del genere Cora , Fr. , " ' Nuovo Gion .
Botan. Ital .
, ' yol .
13 , 1881 , p. 245 .
( 2 plates .
) See also " Die Gruppe der Hymenoliclienen , " Fried .
Johow .
, ' Pringsheim , Jahrb .
Botan. , ' vol. 15 , p. 361 .
( 5 plates .
) 15.10.87 continuous hymenium as in Hymenomycetous fungi , has also considerably strengthened Schwendener 's theory , as the mutual relations between the two components can be more readily determined than in the older group of Ascolichenes .
It is somewhat remarkable that a re-arrangement of Thallogens was not attempted earlier , considering the difficulties experienced by cryptogamists of half-a-century ago in locating the genera now included under and Dictyonema was first described as an alga by C. A. Agardh , w who placed it in the Confervoidece next to Hydrodictyon , yet he appears to have been uncertain about its true position , owing to the numerous colourless anastomosing threads , and concludes with the remark , " Forsan Lichenis species !
" Nees afterwards removed the genus to Fungi , changing the name to Dichonema , but was in turn quite as much perplexed on account of the numerous chlorophyll-bearing cells , and at the end of the generic description says , " Forsan thallus Coenogonii .
" The same remarks apply to the genus Cora , described by Fries !
as a fungus , stating that at one time he considered it as belonging to Liclienes .
In like manner , the Rev. M. J. Berkeley , in the description of Emericella , clearly recognised the lichenose structure , suggested by the presence of green cells along wdth colourless threads , and also called special attention to the absolute agreement between the green cells and the Palmella previously described as an alga in the same work , finally pointing out that it differed from lichens in the mode of spore-formation .
It is remarkable how nearly Schwendener 's views were anticipated in this instance by Berkeley .
The genera already mentioned , along with Laudatea , Joh. , Matt .
, Emericella , Berk .
, and Trichocoma , Jungh .
, although universally acknowledged as Thallogens , are equally rejected by those lichenologists and mycologists opposed to Schwendener 's views ; their peculiar non-ascigerous fructification alienating them from Lichens , and the cblorophyllose cells from Fungi , while algologists appear unable to reconcile themselves to the idea of an alga producing such fungal-like organs of fructification on the colourless hyphrn .
The object of the present communication is to describe a third type of lichen structure , resulting from the consortism of Fungi belonging to the order Trichogastres , with unicellular algae .
F olio wing the rule suggested by Mattirolo , | the present section will take the name of Gas The type Emericella variecolor , Berk .
, is described by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley S as follows :\#151 ; " On the confines of Myxogastres we have the little group consisting of Coniocyhe , Byssophyton , and a new genus , to which I have given the name of Emericella .
These are in habit more or less Lichenose , but differ from Calicium and allied genera in the total absence of asci .
Emericella , of which a figure is subjoined , consists of * ' Syst. Alg .
, ' p. 85 .
f E. Pries , ' PI .
homon .
, ' p. 803 .
J " Contribuzioni alio Studio del genere Cora , Fr. , " ' Nuovo Gion .
Botan. Ital .
, ' vol. 13 , 1881 , p. 245 .
( 2 plates .
) S ' Intr .
Crypt .
Bot. ' p. 340 .
( Cum ic. ) MR. G. MASSEE ON GASTEROLICHENES .
little oblong or clavate masses , varying in colour from yellow to green or grey .
A vertical section shows a little peridium above , filled with threads and globose purplish spores , remarkable for a border of long spines , all situated in the same plane .
The peridium is supported by a spongy central column , giving off threads which are terminated by large globose bodies resembling closely the gonidia of Lichens , but growing very much like the Palmella*figured at p. 118 .
Dr. Montagne has observed these bodies to become blue with iodine , but this is not confirmed by myself or Mr. Broom .
I have , in fact , tried various preparations of iodine , and the addition of sulphuric acid lias given no blue tinge .
The general colour of the plant does not arise from these bodies so much as from the fine threads on which they grow .
Increase in many cases certainly takes place exactly as in the by the division of the central nucleus , and in one instance I have observed two of them to be confluent .
This very curious fungus was gathered by my son , Lieutenant Emeric Sreatfield Berkeley , in his garden at Bowenpilly , near Secunderabad .
I have named it Emericella variecolor , and it is certainly one of the most curious that has ever come under my notice .
" The plant is gregarious inhabit and resembles in external appearance such Fungi as Diderma or Tubulina , and , although stated by Berkeley to be on the confines of Myxogastres , is arranged by that author under Tricliogastres .
The shape varies from cylindrical to turbinate , measuring from two to three lines high by two lines in diameter .
In structure , the genus approaches with which it agrees in the single membranaceous peridium and well-developed sterile base .
The hyphse of the sterile stem-like base are thick-walled , about 8/ x in diameter , and form an interlaced central column surrounded by a loose peripheral plexus of branched hyphrn , which pass uninterruptedly upwards and form the peridium .
The dense capillitium is continuous with the sterile base , and consists of branched tapering hyphae of a pale yellow colour when viewed by transmitted light .
The spores are purple-brown in the mass , globose , and furnished with a row of spines , all situated in one plane ; diameter , including the spines , about 12/ x. In Trichogastres the hyphse concerned with reproduction have usually very thin walls , and disappear soon after the formation of the spores ; consequently the mode of attachment of the spores could not be ascertained .
Dehiscence takes place by the disintegration of the upper portion of the peridium , as in Lycoperdon ccelatum , the persistent capillitium remaining attached to the more or less marginate stem-like base .
The alga is Palmella botryoicles , Grev .
, which appears to differ in its larger size , and in being connected by green threads , from the plant described by Rabenhorst+ under the same name .
The cells are sub-globose or broadly elliptical , varying from 20 / xto 39/ x in longest diameter , and furnished with a very thick , hyaline , lamellose cell-wall .
From the chlorophyllose portion of the cell a green eseptate filament passes through the cell-wall , where it is joined at some distance to a * The Palmella alluded to is P. botryoides , Grev .
t ' Flor. Eur. Alg .
, ' vol. 3 , p. 33 .
similar thread from another cell , the two forming a common stem , on which several pairs of cells are supported on similar lateral bifurcating threads .
These pairs of cells originate from the fission of a single cell , each half of the parent cell giving origin to a green filament , the bifurcation of which is at first included in the cell-wall .
The alga occupies interspaces in the loose peripheral portion of the base of the fungus , and also passes up into the loose texture of the peridium , giving the yellowish-green tint to every external part of the plant before dehiscence .
The tips of lateral branches of hyphse are frequently seen closely investing and even penetrating the algal cells .
Trichocoma paradoxa , Jungh .
, is the type of a second genus of This plant was first discovered by Junghitiin in Java , and was described as a fungus , * its very anomalous structure causing the author much uncertainty in referring it to any of the known divisions of Fungi .
Finally it was placed in the on account of some resemblance to such compact forms as Stilbiim .
Montagne+ afterwards considered it as having more affinity with the , in which family it has up to the present remained .
In habit the plant is gregarious , growinghorizontally on decayed trunks or branches , in shape more or less cylindrical , and varying from three quarters to an inch and a half in height , by half an inch or more in diameter .
The sterile basal portion is cupshaped , and consists of thick-walled , eseptate , much-branched hyphae , compacted into a dense pseudo-parenchymatous tissue .
From the margin of this cup the hyphae pass upwards and form a loose membranaceous peridium .
The capillitium arises from the sterile basal portion , and consists of erect branched threads tapering upwards and compacted into a cylindrical tuft , which after the disappearance of the evanescent peridium resembles a camel's-hair brush springing from the cup-like base .
In young specimens traces of the reproductive hyphae may sometimes be met with , bearing basidia and sterigmata , proving the spores to be true basidiospores , as in The spores are brown , tinged with purple , in the mass , elliptical and coarsely warted , measuring about 6/ x X Sy .
The alga belongs to Kutzing s genus , and forms a stratum at the base of the capillitium .
In the dry plant this layer is bright-yellow , but the alga becomes green when moistened , especially if a small quantity of potassic hydrate is added to the water .
The colonies vary in size , measuring on an average 25 y , and are generally invested with hyphae , which in the " gonidial layer " assume a yellow tinge .
In addition to the locality given above , this species is represented in the Kew Herbarium from Sikkim , East Nepaul , Nilgiris , and Ceylon .
A smaller plant , included with T. paradoxa in the Kew Herbarium collection , proves on examination to be a new species , characterised as follows \#151 ; Trichocoma Icevispora .
Keceptaculum basilare rotundato-cupulatum .
Flocci elon-gati , comosi , in capitulum cylindricum persistens collecti , sporidiis subglobosis , laevibus , * ' Verhand .
van het Batav .
Genootsch .
van Kunsten en Wetensch .
, ' Batav .
, 1839 .
t " Crjptogames de Java , " ' Ann. Sci. Not .
( .
) , ' vol. 16 , 1841 , p. 308 .
MR. G. MASSEE ON GASTEROLICHENES .
4 [ a X 3 ix .
From half to two-thirds of an inch high .
On rotten wood , Lower Carolina ; resembling T. paradoxa in general appearance and structure , but differing in its smaller size and sub-globose smooth spores .
The group Liclienes can be divided into two natural sections , characterised by the nature of the fruit , which agrees with that produced by the two sections of Fungi , Ascomycetes and Basidiomycetesrespectively .
Each section can be further divided into two sub-sections , depending upon the exposed or concealed hymeniurn .
A. \#151 ; Ascolichenes .
Sporidia produced in asci .
I. Discolichenes .
Hymenial surface exposed , as in Discomycetes .
II .
Pyrenolichenes .
Hymenial surface concealed in a perithecium , as in Pyrenomycetes .
B. \#151 ; Basidiolichenes .
Spores produced on basidia .
I. Hymenolichenes .
Hymenial surface naked , as in II .
Gasterolichenes .
Hymenial surface concealed in a per id ium , as in Trichogastres .
Description of the Plate .
Fig. 1 .
Emericella variecolor , Berk .
, not .
size .
Fig. 2 .
The same in a young state , X 50 .
Fig. 3 .
The same after dehiscence , X 50 .
Fig. 4 .
Section of same before dehiscence , X 50 .
Fig. 5 .
Section of same after dehiscence , X 50 .
Fig. 6 .
Vertical section of same after dehiscence , showing the peripheral " gonidial layer , " a , the central hyphal column , and the capillitium with its spores , c. X 300 .
Fig. 7 .
Portion of the alga Palmellabotvyoides , Grev .
Cells of plant , a supporting threads of same , b ; byphse surrounding and entering the algal cells , X 600 .
Fig. 8 .
Spores of same , X 600 .
Fig. 9 .
Trichocoma paradoxa , Jungh .
, not .
size .
Figs. 10 and 11 .
Sections of same , not .
size .
Fig. 12 .
Section of same , showing sterile basal cup , a ; " gonidial layer , " b ; and capillitium with spores , c. X 300 .
Fig. 13 .
Colonies of the alga , a species of accompanied by hyphae .
X 600 .
Fig. 14 .
Spores of same , X 600 .
Fig. 14a .
Basidium , with sterigmata of same , X 600 .
Fig. 15 .
Trichocoma Icevispora , Mass , a , before rupture of peridium ; b , after disappearance of peridium ; not .
size .
Fig. 16 .
Spores of same , X 600 .
Phil Trans 1887 B

