An Account of a curious Phenomenon observed on the Glacciers of Chamouny ; together with some occasional Observations concerning the Propagation of Heat in Fluids .
By Benjamin Count of Rumford , V.P.R.S. Foreign Associate of the National Institute of France , &amp;c. 8c .
Read December 15 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 23 .
] The fact here stated is as follows:-At the surface of a solid mass of ice , of vast thickness and extent , viz. the Glaciers of Montanverd , certain pits are frequently met with , about seven inches in diameter , and more than four feet deep , perfectly cylindrical , and always quite full of water : their sides are smooth , or rather polished , and their bottoms hemispherical and well defined .
They are always found on the level parts of the ice , and only in the summer season , increasing gradually in depth as long as the hot weather continues , and disappearing at the return of winter , when they are completely frozen up .
After calling upon those who maintain that water is a conductor of heat , to solve this phoenomenon according to their principles , and pointing out to them , that as the water in these pits , being surrounded by ice , must continually be at the freezing point of temperature , it is not the general heat of the fluid that can melt the ice at the bottom of the pits , our author proceeds to give the following explanation of this singular effect .
The warm winds , he says , which in summer blow over the surface of this column of ice-cold water , must evidently communicate some small degree of heat to those particles of the fluid with which this warm air comes into immediate contact ; and the particles of the water at the surface so heated , being rendered specifically heavier than they were before by this small increase of temperature , sink slowly to the bottom of the pit ; and here they come in contact with the ice , and communicate to it the heat by which the depth of the pit is continually increased .
Count Rumford mentions next the singular but well-authenticated fact , of the equal temperature , at all seasons , of the water at the bottom of lakes ; and shows how difficult , if not impossible , it must be to explain this phenomenon on a supposition of water being a conductor of heat .
With a view to illustrate this subject , he gives us hopes that he will soon favour us with some observations , showing why all changes of temperature in transparent liquids must necessarily take place at their surfaces .
Some further strictures are next given , and certain difficulties are pointed out , on the cause of the descent of heat in liquids .
And , lastly , notice is taken of the observations of Mr. Thompson of Edinburgh , on the experiments our author had contrived to render visible the currents into which liquids are thrown on a sudden application of heat or cold .
The whole of this discussion rests on the accuracy of his observations , which Mr. Thompson had called in question , but in which he confidently asserts there was no fallacy whatever .

