1873 .
] On the Currents of the Dardanelles and Bosphorus .
387 a well-marked genus or subfamily of Macropodid\#174 ; are illustrated by fossils , on which are founded a genus Procoptodon , and the species Proc. Pusio , Proc. Goliah , and Proc. Bapha .
The paper concludes with the description of a considerable part of a fossil cranium indicative of the largest form of kangaroo hitherto found ; for the subgenus and species so indicated the author proposes the name PalorchestesAzael .
The illustrations of the paper form the subjects of nine 4to Plates .
IX .
" Observations on the Currents and Undercurrents of the Dardanelles and Bosphorus , made by Commander J. L. Wharton , of H.M. Surveying-Ship c Shearwater/ between the months of June and October , 1872 .
" From a Report of that Officer to the Hydrographer of the Admiralty .
Communicated by Admiral Richards , C.B. , V.P.R.S. Received May 7 , 1873 .
There is a general flow of the Black-Sea water through the Bosphorus , Marmara , and Dardanelles to the Mediterranean , probably caused by the combination of three things :\#151 ; first , the prevalence of N.E. winds in the Black Sea ; secondly , the excess of water received from the large rivers over the amount lost by temperature at some seasons ; and , thirdly , the difference of specific gravities in the two seas .
Of these , observation goes to prove that the wind has by far the greatest influence .
There is as general a countercurrent setting up under the surface-stream , in an opposite direction , from the Mediterranean to the Black Sea .
This seems to be dependent on the surface-current ; for when the latter is slack , the undercurrent is slack likewise .
Dardanelles .
From observations made from 14th June to 30th October 1872 .
The ordinary direction of the surface-current in mid-stream is S.W. , or " down " the straits , with the wind , which blows from the opposite quarter for three parts of the year ; but when a S.W. wind has lasted a few days and forced its way through the straits from one end to another , the current will run in the opposite direction , but never so strongly as the S.W. current .
Wherever ' a point juts out into the straits , or a turn occurs , counter-currents run up strongly inshore on their lee sides , as might be expected ; and , generally speaking , with the exception of those places where the straits are narrowed by two points opposite to one another , either slack water or a slight eddy exists , on either shore , for a short distance from the coast .
Commander J. L. Wharton on the Currents [ June 19 , As a general rule , the stronger and more continuous the N.E. wind the stronger the S.W. set ; but the surface-currents are capricious in their rates , the wind seeming to affect them more at some times than at others .
This is probably owing to the different winds that may be blowing at the two ends of the straits , it being a common occurrence that a strong S.W. wind exists at the southern end simultaneously with a N.E. one at the northern .
This was verified on several occasions , and doubtless cheeks the flow of water .
On calm days the current will usually be slack to the S.W. ; but there are exceptions to this also , and it will sometimes even run to the N.E. It may , however , be safely stated that the current is rarely strong wrhen there is no wind .
The general average rate of the current may be taken at 1| knot from one end of the strait to the other ; but in some places , as at Chanak Kalehsi , it will run 3 knots , when at Gallipoli it is but 1 knot .
The maximum current is at Chanak , where , with a strong N.E. wind , it will attain a speed of 4| knots .
As has been stated , a south-westerly wind will stop the current in the upper part of the strait , and a long continuance will cause it to change entirely its direction , but it will never run more than a knot to the northeastward .
Though the maximum lunar tide is only 3 or 4 inches , the water sometimes rises as much as 2 feet above its usual height , which may be accounted for by the same cause\#151 ; i. e. the different winds at the two ends of the straits checking the flow below , and causing the water to accumulate above .
The observations for undercurrent have been made , as far as possible , in different kinds of weather , so as to ascertain what influence the wind might have on the movement of the water* .
If the observed rates and areas on October 4th be taken , it makes ^the outflow to the inflow as 3 to 1 ; but every correction will diminish this ratio , and it is probably nearer 3 to 2 : or , in other words , the quantity of water flowing from the Marmara is half as much again as that which it receives back from the Mediterranean j but this is a very vague approximation .
* After various modifications , the drag finally adopted was a flat board 6 feet square , with a wing at right angles to the centre of it 2 feet in length .
To the extremities of this short wing a sling is made fast , and to this sling the sup " porting line to the buoy is bent at such a point as will keep the surface of the drag vertical when the strain comes on .
It weighs 70 lbs. in air , and took 120 lbs. of lead to sink it satisfactorily .
The line was ordinary lead line .
The float was an iron nun buoy , 5 feet long by 118 diameter in the centre , capable of supporting 80 lbs. The pulling boats used drags of a similar shape , 4 feet square , of canvas , laced to# wooden frame to prevent collapsing , which did not require such heavy weights to si them .
1873 .
] of the Dardanelles and Bosphorus .
389 On all occasions when it has been practicable the specific gravity and temperature of the water have been taken at different depths , at the same times and places as the current observations .
The general result of the undercurrent observations in the Dardanelles is , that an undercurrent exists whenever a surface one does , and invariably in an opposite direction .
Even with the imperfect means used , out of 12 days ' observation 10 gave this result .
; .
The speed at which the under countercurrent travels seems to depend upon that of the surface .
The highest rate actually observed in the Dardanelles was T87 of a knot an hour , when the surface-stream in the opposite direction was also the fastest experienced , 3 knots .
When the surface-current was slack so was the undercurrent .
There was little or no deviation from this rule .
The depth of the surface-current appears to be about 10 to 15 fathoms .
Below this , the whole of the water to the bottom is generally on the move in a contrary direction .
At about 10 or 15 fathoms depth also the specific gravity of the water generally alters rapidly , approximating to the Mediterranean density below , and to that of the Black Sea above .
The temperature also changes about this point .
This shows that it is not superfluous surface-water that is running back underneath , but that it is the Mediterranean supplying the place of the lighter Marmara water .
There appears to be little or no slack water between the two currents , favourable observations having given them in opposite directions in a very few fathoms different depth .
Details of Undercurrent Observations.\#151 ; Dardanelles .
On July 29th an under countercurrent was obtained in the centre of Gallipoli Strait at 30 fathoms .
At the commencement of this observation it was calm , and the surface ran but a tenth of a knot , with a counter undercurrent of two tenths ; later in the day a breeze sprang up , when the surface ran six tenths , and the undercurrent was increased to three tenths , showing an unmistakable connexion between wind and current .
Next day gave almost identical results .
The current of seven tenths of a knot at .
the surface decreased in strength with the depth , changed its direction at about 15 fathoms , and increased in rate to the bottom , where it showed three tenths .
On August 13th five boats , equidistantly arranged across the strait , took observations with various results ; but generally the surface-current ran to N.E. , and the under to the S.W. , reversing the usual order j all rates very slow .
VOL. xxi .
2 i 390 Commander J. L. Wharton Currents [ June 19 , The wind was S.W. , light , and hadheen so for two days ; but it was subsequently ascertained that at the south end of the Dardanelles the S.W. wind had been fresh .
On September 2nd , in the course of experiments made to compare different drags , no undercurrent was found .
It was nearly calm , and the observation was confined to one spot only .
On September 10th , after 24 hours calm , succeeding to seven days strong N.E. winds , the surface-current was almost nil .
Five boats obtained simultaneous observations , of which the two on the Asiatic side found the surface moving to S.W. , and an undercurrent to the N.E. , averaging two tenths of a knot each ; the other boats ' drags scarcely moved .
The observation was not completed .
On October 4th four boats obtained observations in a strong N.E. wind that had been blowing for five days previously .
There was a nasty sea in from the Sea of Marmara , which rendered it difficult for the pulling boats to hold their own , and caused the loss of several drags in hauling in* The results were that , at 20 fathoms and deeper , the drags went to windward ; they were stationary at 15 fathoms , and above the current ran to the S.W. The swiftest rates in both currents were at the extremes , the surface and bottom ; the former 1\#177 ; knot , the latter half a knot .
This concluded the undercurrent observations at Gallipoli .
September 18th .
Four boats took observations off Bourgaz Light .
The wind , which had been for three days strong from the N.E. , was moderate from the same direction at the commencement of the day ; but before the full set of observations could be completed , it freshened to such a degree that the boats were unable to work , and had to bear up for the ship ; the steam cutter even had to desist .
j JH The result was that at 25 and 20 fathoms all drags went to windward , though slowly , against a surface-current of 2\#163 ; knots per hour .
TM densities , as usual , changed rapidly between 10 and 20 fathoms .
: September 24th .
After a strong N.E. wind for two days , four boats tried in the narrows between Chanak Kalehsi and Kilid Bahr .
*ip surface-stream was rapid , and the wind , moderate at the commencement , increased up to 11 a.m. , when the boats , having recovered their drags with some difficulty , had to give up any further attempt at struggling against the current and sea .
_ The results , on the whole , were not satisfactory .
With t e cutter on the European side of the centre using the 6-feet wooden dflB the buoy went to windward at 33 , 23 , and 16 fathoms at the rate ol ffr -fe , and respectively , remaining stationary at 10 fathoms .
ere 'j the densities changed rapidly .
The surface-current was 2| knots .
The boat on the Asiatic side of the centre obtained a slight un current , but was swept away herself 2 or 3 miles to leewa attempting tq take temperatures .
1873 .
] of the Dardanelles and .
391 The boat on the Asiatic side obtained another undercurrent of and y6^ at 17 and 23 fathoms , but at 34 fathoms it again drifted slowly to leeward .
Surface-current about 3 knots .
The countercurrents obtained here were at less depths than any before observed .
October 1st .
Four boats together , across the western entrance to the Dardanelles from Koum Kaleh to Seddul Bahr .
The wind was light and variable , but it had been blowing half a gale from the N.E. the three preceding days , and the surface-stream was strong , nearly 3 knots , but with smooth water .
The results this day were curious , as instead of the under countercurrent existing from the bottom upwards to about 15 fathoms , as usual , it was found between 10 and 20 fathoms , running strongest at 15 ; but below 20 fathoms the water was apparently moving in the same direction as the surface .
Here , too , at the surface is no longer the pure sea of Marmara water ; the density shows it to be mixed with the Mediterranean , probably from a counter surface-current that sometimes runs up inshore on the European side .
Bosphorus .
The general flow of the water is from the Black Sea to the Marmara , and at an average rate of about 2| knots ; but the speed of the current will vary from hour to hour , and the course of the strait is so tortuous that the water runs in swirls and streams of different speeds .
Generally the current runs quicker in the afternoon than the forenoon ; and as the mornings are usually calm and the N.E. breeze gains strength during the day , this seems to be attributable to that fact .
The remark made with regard to the Dardanelles currents , that , " as a rule , in a calm the currents are slack , " does not , however , apply to the Bosphorus .
On two occasions during the ' Shearwater 's ' visits the current seemed to have ceased altogether , without any apparent cause , calms existing at the time , but in certain places ( as the Devil 's Current and off Seraglio Point ) the water was still draining down .
The Turkish fleet which lie in the strength of the current , opposite Scutari , were swung in different directions .
It is reported that in the winter season , when S.W. gales of long duration are not uncommon , the current will run the opposite way with some strength .
The current gathers strength as it advances down the strait ; at the northern entrance it was never found so strong as at the southern .
A general undercurrent running counter to the surface-stream was found at both ends of the Bosphorus ; in the deep channel the rate of this , as recorded by the drift of the buoy , varied from 1-^ to of a knot , and the depth at which it was found varied from 15 to 30 fathoms .
This , it must be remembered , is subject to great corrections .
2 i 2 392 on the Currents of the Dardanelles and Bosphorus .
[ June 19 , Details of Undercurrent Observations.\#151 ; Bosphorus .
The spot chosen for the observations at the southern end of the Bosphorus was between Seraglio Point and Leander 's Tower .
Here the whole surface runs down with great velocity , with no side eddies .
There is a narrow deep channel of 34 fathoms close to the Stamboul side , otherwise the depth does not exceed 20 fathoms .
In this deep channel the up undercurrent was found .
On August 21st the drag * was tried in a N.E. wind , force 4 , and with a surface-current of 3| knots .
When lowered to a depth afterwards assumed to be 20 fathoms , it at once rushed violently away against the surface-stream .
On the 12th of October the steam cutter tried again in the deep / channel .
This day was one of those when the surface-currents in the Bosphorus were unaccountably slack and variable .
At Therapia , near the north end , the water was motionless , while at Seraglio Point , where the observations were made , the current was only 1^ knot .
The result of the observation was a counter undercurrent of one knot at a depth of 15 fathoms .
This makes the surface-current much shallower than the other observations .
On the 14th October , though calm and smooth , the surface-water was rushing down at three knots an hour ; observations showed an up undercurrent at 22 fathoms , but no nearer to the surface , and at that depth only at the rate of a quarter of a knot , but the water is of the Mediterranean density a few fathoms higher .
On the 15th of October the surface-current was very rapid ; 4\#177 ; knots was recorded off Leander 's Tower .
The results were nearly identical " with the previous days .
Up current was obtained in the deep channel .
The experiments at the north entrance of the , Bosphorus were made off Fil Bumu , where the strait is contracted by two opposite points , and where no side eddy exists . .
r \#166 ; \gt ; vOn the 23rd of August the drag gave in the deep channel , at 40 and fathoms , an undercurrent of 1-j^j and y7^ knot respectively , the surflB only running 1-^ knot .
- - , This , during all the observations , seemed to be the invariable rate ol the surface-current here , wind seeming to have little effect on it .
J| Densities changed between 25 and 30 fathoms .
At this point also ( 26 fathoms ) was a curious stratum of cold water of 54 ' , the water immediately below being 62 ' , and that above , 60 ' .
The next day corro rated this .
% .
, _ On the 17th of October , undercurrent was again found at 30 a om and below , but not so strong as on August 23rd .
The two interval had made some difference in the temperatures , but little or * For these observations a wooden drag was employed similar in design to before described ; it weighed 115 lbs , in air , and required 175 lbs# to sin i # 1873 .
] On Normal Primary Heptyl Alcohol .
393 in the specific gravities .
The cold stratum mentioned on 23rd , 24th , and 26th August was wanting .
Black-Sea Temperatures .
Endeavours were made to get a series of densities and temperatures in the Black Sea , in order to ascertain the conditions at all depths .
The steam cutter with much difficulty , not unattended with danger , obtained an offing of six miles on the 17th of October .
The wind was strong and the sea high , but time would not allow of choice of days , and the N.E. wind was almost permanent .
The results obtained show a uniform density of 1*012 from surface to bottom in a depth of 38 fathoms .
Temperatures showed great decrease at the bottom , and the cold stratum observed on the 23rd , 24th , and 26th of August was found here also . .
, ' X. " Normal Primary Heptyl Alcohol .
" By Harry Grimshaw and Carl Schorlemmer , F.R.S. Received May 6 , 1873 .
One of us has shown that by oxidizing the primary heptyl alcohol from normal heptane acid is formed , which is identical with oenanthylic acid from cenanthol* .
( Enanthylic acid is therefore a normal acid ; and as by the distillation of castor-oil any quantity of oenanthol may be obtained , this aldehyde appears to be the best starting-point for the preparation of the hitherto almost unknown normal heptyl compounds .
Some years ago Bouis and Carlet found that , by the action of zinc and acetic acid on cenanthol , a heptyl acetate is formed , which yielded a heptyl alcohol boiling at 165'+ .
If these statements be correct , this alcohol cannot be a normal compound , for its boiling-point is only 8 ' higher than that of normal hexyl alcohol .
One of us , on repeating these experiments , did not , however , succeed in obtaining a heptyl alcohol , the chief product of the reaction consisting of high-boiling condensation-products of oenantholj .
To convert oenanthol into the alcohol we have therefore made use of the excellent method which Lieben and Rossi have employed so successfully for the reduction of other aldehydes .
CEnantholwas shaken with fifty times its weight of water , and sodium amalgam and an equivalent quantity of sulphuric acid were gradually added .
The product of the reaction was a mixture of heptyl alcohol and another very high-boiling liquid , the separation of which could be easily effected by distillation .
The primary heptyl alcohol thus obtained is a limpid , somewhat oily liquid , possessing an aromatic odour and boiling at 175'\#151 ; 177 ' , if the * Phil. Trans , yol .
clxii .
p. 111 .
t Comptes Rendus , vol. 1 .
p. 140 .
+ Ann. Ch. Pharm. yol .
cxxxvi .
p. 261 .

