On Captain Parry 's and Lieutenant Foster 's Experiments on the Velocity of Sound .
By D)r .
Gerard Moll , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Utrecht .
Communicated by Captain Henry Kater , V.P.R.S. Read January 17 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 97 .
] In this paper the author institutes a comparison between the results of the experiments on the velocity of sound made by Captain Parry and Lieutenant Foster in the arctic regions , and those deduced from the theoretical formula of Laplace .
At the temperature of -170 ?
72 of Fahrenheit , and with a barometric pressure of 29 936 inches , the mean result of all the observations gave a velocity of 1036-19 feet per second .
With the same data , this velocity , by calculation according to the formula of Laplace , would be 1017 72 ; differing from the observed velocity by 17*47 feet only .
Similar comparisons of particular observations , which are selected as being made under favourable circumstances , with the deductions from theory , are made by the author with but little variation in the results .
From the whole investigation , he draws the conclusion , that in very high latitudes , where the cold is very intense , the data on which the 3 calculations are founded are more uncertain than at ordinary temperatures ; thus confirming the opinion of Laplace , who says , in speaking of these differences , " qu'elles paraissent etre dans les limits des petites erreurs dont cette experience , et les 6l6mens du calcul , dont j'ai fait usage , sont encore susceptibles .
" The author shows by an elaborate calculation , that the influence of moisture in the atmosphere on the velocity of sound must at these two temperatures be quite trifling , not amounting in any case to more than a few inches in a second ; and that this element may therefore be safely neglected in the computation .
He next proceeds to compare the experiments of the northern navigators with those of Dr. Van Beck and himself , and also those of other observers , adverting to their general agreement ; which , he observes , is sufficiently satisfactory to warrant the conclusion , that whatever difference may still be found to exist between computation and observation , is rather to be ascribed to some imperfection in the theoretical formula , than to any fault or negligence in the observers .
He concludes by remarking the strong testimony which Captain Parry 's observations afford of his exemplary accuracy , amidst the great difficulties with which , from the circumstances in which he was placed , he had generally to contend .

