XIV .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases .
" No. X.-Metamorphoses of Bromide of Bromnethylated Triethylphosphonium .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received July 24 , 1860 .
Among the several products of transformation into which the bromide of bromethyl-triethylphosphoiiium is converted when suLbmitted to the action of reagents , the substances formed by its union with bodies similar to ammonia , have hitherto almost exclusively occupied my attention .
I have , however , of late examined a variety of other changes of this body , which deserve to be noticed .
When heated , the bromide begins to evolve hydrobromic acid at a temperature of about 2000 , which continues for a considerable length of time .
The product of this reaction is evidently the bromide of vinyl-triethylphosphonium , [ ( C2 11 , Br ) ( C2 15)3 P ] Br= H Br+ [ ( a 13 ) ( C2 101)3 P ] Br .
It is , however , difficult to obtain the substance pure by this process , since the temperature at which the last portion of hydrobromic acid is eliminated closely approximates the degree of heat at which the vilivl-body is entirely destroyed ; and since the latter compound may be obtained with the greatest facility by other processes * , I have not followed up any further this direction of the inquiry .
I have already mentioned , in a previous note , the deportment of the bromethylated bromide with oxide of silver ; the whole of the bromine is eliminated in the form of bromide of silver , a new base being formed .
According to circumstances , this base may be the vinyl-compound previously mentioned , or another body differing from the latter by containing the elements of one molecule of water in addition .
This substance , which is always formed when the reaction takes place in moderately dilute solutions , is the oxide of a phosphonium , with three molecules of ethyl substituted for three equivalents of hydrogen , the fourth equivalent of hydrogen being replaced by an oxygenated radical C2 H15 0 , arising from the radical C2 H1 Br by the insertion of HO in the place of Br [ ( C2 H14 Br ) ( C0 11)3 P ] Br + 2g } O=2AgBr +(C24HO)(C2H5)3P pI have fixed the nature of this compound by the analysis of the iodide , of the platinum-salt and of the gold-salt , and , moreover , by the study of several remarkable transformations which it undergoes when submitted to the action of reagents .
It appeared of some interest to ascertain whether the oxethylated might be reconverted into the broniethylated base .
The chloride of the former is energetically attacked by pentabromide of phosphorus ; oxybromide of phosphorus and hydrobromic acid are abundantly evolved , and the residue of the reaction contains the chloride of bromethylated triethylphosphonium .
[ ( 21 5 0 ) ( C2 H)3 P]Cl+PBr5=HBr+POBr3+ [ ( C2 H4 Br ) ( 02 H5)3 P30 .
Thus it is seen that the molecular group C2 115 0 , which we assume as hydrogen-replacing in this salt , suffers under the influence of pentabromide of phosphorus , alterations identical with those which it is known to undergo under similar circumstances , when conceived as a constituent of alcohol .
If we consider the facility with which the bromethylated triethylphosphonium is converted into the oxethylated compound , by the action of oxide of silver , and the simple re-formation of the firstmentioned body by means of pentabromide of phosphorus , a great variety of new experiments suggest themselves .
As yet but little progress has been made in this direction ; one of the reactions , however , which I have studied deserves eveln now to be mentioned .
The salts of bromethylated and oxethylateed triethylphosphonium may be regarded as tetrethyl-phosphoniium-salts , in which an equivalent of hydrogen in one of the ethyl-molecules is replaced by brominie and by the molecular group HO respectively .
Bromide of tetrethylphosphloniuni [ ( C2 114 1 ) ( C2 I1 , )5 P ] Br , Bromide of bromethylated tri[(C I Br)(C2 ET ) P]Br , ethylphosphoniuim C2 C2 J2423 Bromide of oxethylated triethyll [ ( C 114110 ) ( C 11 ) P Br ; phosphonium.f and the questionl arose , whether the bromethylated compound might not be Converted , sinmply by reductioni , into a salt of tetrethylplhosphoniium .
This transformation may , indeed , be effected without difficulty .
On acidulating the solution of the bromethylated bromide with sulphuric acid and digesting the mixture with granulated zinc , the latent bromine is eliminated as hydrobromic acid , its place beiig at the samrie time filled by 1 equiv. of hydrogen , [ ( C2 114 Br ) ( C2 115)3 P]Br+21-=JlBr [ ( C2 115)4 P]Br .
It was chiefly the facility with which a tetrethyl-phosphoniumcompouind mlnay be obtained from the brominated bromide , that induced me to designate the hydrogen-replacing molecules C2 11Br , and C2 H1 0 , which we meet with in the compounds above described , as bromethyl and oxethyl .
It remained to be ascertainied whether these compounds tligtht actually be formed by means of direct substitution-products of ethyl-compounds .
It was with the view of deciding this quiestion that 1 have examinied the deportment of triethylphosphine with the mionochlorinated chloride and the monobrominated bromide of ethyl .
The former of these substances has been long known , having beeni investigated by Regnault many years ago ; the latter had not been hitherto obtained .
I have prepared it by submitting bromide of ethyl to the action of dry bromine unider pressure* .
It is a heavy aromatic liquid boiling at 1 100 .
The chlorinated chloride and the brominated bromide of ethyl , although essentially different in their physical properties from diebloride and dibromide of ethylene , with which they are isomeric , nevertheless resemble the ethylene-compounds in their deportment with triethylphosphine .
In both cases the final product of the reaction is a salt of hexethvl* In additioni to the monobrominated broomide of ethyl , ( C1 H4 Br ) Br , there is al5o formed( in this reaction the dibroiniinated broomide , ( C4 l-l .
Br2 ) By .
ated ethylene-diphosphonium .
I have identified these salts with those obtained by mealns of dichloride and dibromide of ethylene , both by a careful examiniation of their physical properties , and by the analysis of the characteristic iodide and of the platinum-salt .
I have ilot been able to trace in the first of these reactions a salt of chlorethylated triethylphosphonium ; but I have established by experiment that in the reaction between triethylphosphine and brominated bromide of ethyl , the formation of bromethyl-triethylphosphonium invariably precedes the produietion of the diphosphonium-compotnd .

