290 Mr. C. Tomlinson on Action of Ozone on Nuclei .
[ Apr. 4 ; III .
" On the Action of Ozone on Nuclei .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received March 14 , 1878 .
After the reading of my paper on the 21st ultimo , Professor Stokes was so good as to suggest that some of my experiments should be repeated with ozone , prepared by the action of a coil , instead of that of phosphorus .
Professor Guthrie was so kind as to furnish me with a couple of bottles of ozone , prepared by sending oxygen slowly through Wills 's generator in .
connexion with an induction coil .
The ozone was used soon after it was prepared , and in the following manner:\#151 ; Oil of cajuput was distilled , and the fresh distillate was found to be inactive on a supersaturated solution of sodic sulphate ( 3 to 1 ) , ^ although it was repeatedly shaken up with the solution .
The newly-distilled oil was poured into one of the bottles of ozone , and shaken up with it , and then left for about fifteen minutes .
It was dropped into nine flasks of the solution just named , and was active in all .
In some of the flasks the solution became solid as soon as the ozonised oil reached the surface ; in others , immediately on shaking the flask , or after a short interval of repose ; while , in a third set , after adding the oil , the axis of the flask being brought into a nearly horizontal position , the flask was made to revolve slowly , when the solution solidified against the side , so as to form a kind of lining to it .
On the 12th March the wind was N.E. , and the ozone in the air was very active on test paper .
A paraffin oil of high boiling point was distilled , and specimens of the fresh distillate were powerfully active on a solution of sodic sulphate ( 2 to 1 ) .
A similar oil distilled during a S. or W. wind , as noticed in a former note , was inactive .
To a solution of sodic sulphate ( 3 to 1 ) , containing oil of cajuput in g , n inactive condition , a solution of hydric peroxide was added , but it had no effect in rendering the oil active .
The flask was shaken every day during a week , and the only effect was to liberate bubbles of gas .
On adding to this flask a drop or two of the ozonised oil , the solution immediately became solid .
( 23rd March .
) The inactive distillates of cajuput and paraffin oils , shaken up several times during about half-an-hour with pure oxygen gas , became active .
Test papers , suspended in the bottles , showed the presence of ozone .
Washed castor oil , similarly treated , remained inactive ; but shaken up with ozone , and left in contact with it for some hours , became active .
I repeated the experiment , described in a former note , on the activity of charcoal , on which Pellogio founds his theory of absorption .
Pieces of box-wood , buried in sand , were heated in a crucible during 1878 .
] Capt. Abney on the Acceleration of Oxidation , 291 some tours .
When cold , and just taken out of the sand , they were found to be inactive ( except that they liberated a portion of the modi-fied salt after the manner of the inactive essential oils ) ; but by exposure to the outer air ( wind N.E. ) they became active in about ten minutes .
Cocoa-nut shell charcoal requires a longer exposure to become active .
Hence the activity of charcoal does not depend on absorption , but on the condition of the air contained within its pores .
IV .
" Notes on Physical Geology .
" By the Rev. Samuel Haughton , M.D. Dublin , D.C.L. , Oxon , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Dublin .
April 11 , 1878 .
Dr. W. FAR , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
Dr. William Carmichael McIntosh was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Acceleration of Oxidation caused by the Least Refrangible End of the Spectrum .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1878 .
Preliminary Note .
In a paper contributed to the Philosophical Magazine in January last , I expressed an opinion that Chastaing 's idea regarding an acceleration of oxidation being caused by red light might prove true in regard to the oxidation of the photographic image , and elsewhere* that Becquerel 's coloured spectra and Draper 's reversed spectra might be explained on the same principles .
Owing to want of time until this last week , I have been unable to investigate the matter , but can now affirm that such is the case as regards oxidation of the photographic image .
Silver bromide , free from contamination , emulsified in collodion , " which had been previously carefully purified , was spread on a plate , * " Treatise on Photography .
" Longmans .
Page 225 .

