144 Some Experiments with the Venom of Causus rhombeatus .
By H. E. Arbuckle , M.B. , West African Medical Service .
( Communicated by A. Alcock , C.I.E. , F.R.S. Received November 5 , \#151 ; Read December 9 , 1909 .
) In Sierra Leon there are numbers of a small viperine snake of the genus Causus , known locally as " chicken snakes , " of which it has been my good fortune to get several fine specimens .
The largest was 463 mm. long , the tail being only 35 mm. The poison-gland is remarkably long , practically one-fourth the length of the snake .
It lies dorsally , immediately beneath the skin , and shows no indication of attachment to any other structure .
It is flat and ribbon-like , with a maximum breadth of about 6 mm. It is of a greyish-pink colour , spotted in its middle third .
It stretches as far back as the posterior level of the heart .
At the quadrato-inandibular joint it narrows into a flat duct which becomes attached to underlying structures and is covered by fascia .
The duct ends in an ampulla which just touches the maxilla when the fang is erected .
The entire gland can be seen by merely reflecting the skin .
The venom seems to be ejected by the contraction of the gland itself .
In a chloroformed snake , with the gland exposed by reflection of the skin , a slight pinch of the gland with the forceps causes a vigorous contraction .
If the end of the gland be pinched , a peristaltic contraction forwards takes place , towards the duct , and some venom is ejected .
If the gland be squeezed in the middle , a peristaltic contraction forwards occurs on both sides of the forceps .
In the experiments here recorded the venom was used in three ways\#151 ; fresh venom dissolved in sterile salt solution , dried venom dissolved in sterile salt solution , and the alcoholic precipitate of venom re-dissolved in sterile salt solution .
The action of the venom , which seemed the same in all three methods of administration , was shown in local ecchymosis , and in drowsiness and muscular weakness .
In about half the cases there was marked slowing of the respiration with great difficulty in inspiration .
Post-mortem examination showed in most casefe superficial haemorrhage into the viscera , especially the heart and lungs , the lungs being in two cases filled with fluid and deeply discoloured by haemorrhage .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; After killing the snake the two glands were at once removed and squeezed into sterile salt solution in a hypodermic syringe , and Some Experiments with Venom of Causus rhombeatus .
145 the whole was injected into the pectoral muscles of a chicken weighing 5 ounces .
10.20 a.m. , venom injected .
10.27 , chicken looked sleepy , stood without moving , respiration 47 .
10.55 , animal propped itself up against the side of the box , respiration 40 .
11.15 , respiration 35 , inspiration difficult , ecchymosis over abdomen and lower part of thorax .
11.45 a.m. to 2 p.m. , respiration gradually slowed from 35 to 24 .
2.45 , the animal wdien placed flat on its back remained in that position with quickened respiration .
3.15 , died quietly .
Post mortem :a large , dark maroon-coloured ecchymosis over the abdomen , most of the thorax , and the root of the neck : the pectoral muscles of the side injected were deeply blood-stained .
On opening the body-cavity superficial haemorrhages were found in the gizzard , liver , and heart : the right auricle contained a small , dark , soft clot ; the endocardium of the right ventricle was much congested ; the lungs were pale , with no excess of fluid .
Experiment 2.\#151 ; The venom , mixed with sterile salt solution , of one gland was injected into the pectoral muscle of a chicken weighing 8 ounces , at 10 a.m. 10.5 , wings began to droop , chicken gasped and kept swallowing as if there were some obstruction in the throat , respiration 22 , inspiration very difficult .
10.40 , respiration 16 , inspiration much prolonged .
11.40 , respiration 16 , chicken could not get up when placed on its side .
11.42 , respiration 11 .
11.45 , convulsions , with emission of blood-stained froth from the mouth , death .
Post mortem : the vessels in the neighbourhood of the puncture were much enlarged , as were those of the abdominal wall and peritoneum : the iliac veins and vena cava were engorged with dark blood : a few hemorrhages were found in the right lung : the left lung was of a dark cherry colour and full of frothy fluid : the right auricle and ventricle contained each a dark soft clot .
In this case the comparatively rapid death was probably due to some of the poison having entered a blood-vessel ; for , after the injection , some clotted blood was found in the needle of the syringe .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; The venom of one gland was mixed with sterile salt solution in a syringe , and half of the mixture was injected into the left pectoral muscle of a fowl weighing 17 ounces , at 10 a.m. , the respiration then being 30 .
10.30 , respiration 24 , a little irregular ; fowl squatting .
1.30 p.m. , fowl quite lively .
10 a.m. on following day , dark ecchymosis near puncture ; vessels on both sides of thorax and abdomen , but particularly of left side , much enlarged .
7 a.m. on third day , skin of whole abdomen green ; the left leg of the fowl stiff .
The fowl completely recovered by the end of the third day .
Experiment 4 .
The venom of both glands was dried in the sun and its 146 Some Experiments with Venom of Causus rhombeatus .
weight was found to be 9 centigrammes .
It was then dissolved in 21 minims of sterile salt solution , and 14 minims of the solution ( =6 centigrammes of the venom ) was injected into one chicken ( A ) , and the remainder ( =3 centigrammes of venom ) into another chicken ( B ) , at 10.15 a.m. , the injection in each case being made into the right leg .
10.55 : " A " respiration 29 ; " B " respiration 33 , and sits with right wing outstretched ; both fowls allow themselves to be touched without attempting to move .
11.35 : " A " right leg dark blue and swollen ; " B " right leg slightly ecchymosed , superficial vessels enlarged .
1.30 pan .
: " Arespiration 34 , abdomen ecehymosed and superficial vessels enlarged ; " B " respiration 35 , some of the superficial abdominal vessels dilated , and slight ecchymosis of abdomen .
4.30 p.m. ; both fowls lively and eager to feed : in " A " the leg is swollen and the ecchymosis has spread from the abdomen to the thorax ; in " B " the leg is swollen and only the abdomen is ecchymosed .
6.30 a.m. on second day : " A " right side of abdomen and thorax swollen and discoloured ; " B " whole of abdomen and right side of thorax ecchymosed .
6.30 a.m. on third day : both fowls limp , but are quite lively .
10 a.m. on third day : " A " quite lively , but its abdomen is still discoloured ; " B " is almost normal , but has very slight ecchymosis at site of puncture .
10 a.m. on fourth day , both fowls are quite recovered .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; The venom of both glands was dried in the sun , and found to weigh 16 centigrammes .
9.15 a.m. , 12 centigrammes of the venom was dissolved in sterile salt solution and injected into the right pectoral muscle of a fowl .
10.30 , respiration 36 ; ecchymosis all over right side of thorax and abdomen .
11.30 , respiration 33 , ecchymosis spreading to left side of thorax .
12.30 , respiration 28 .
2.15 p.m. , respiration 28 , ecchymosis spread over left side of abdomen and thorax and right wing .
2.40 , convulsions , fowl died .
Post mortem : subcutaneous tissue of abdomen and thorax full of blood-stained fluid ; right pectoral muscle flabby and discoloured with blood ; peritoneal vessels dilated , peritoneal cavity contains blood-stained fluid ; tiny luemor-rhages in pericardium , vessels of myocardium dilated ; both lungs were haemorrhagic and contained much dark-coloured frothy fluid .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; Two glands were cut up and treated with alcohol ( 90 per cent. ) .
Two days afterwards the alcohol was filtered off , and the precipitate was redissolved in sterile salt solution .
At 4.45 p.m. the whole of the solution was injected into the pectoral muscle of a fowl .
4.48 , fowl staggered and fell , had slight convulsions and then lay quiet .
4.57 , fowl staggered to rise , but failed ; respiration 24 .
5.10 fowl struggled to its feet ; very drowsy , eyes closed , wings drooping ; respiration 19 .
5.22 , fowl gasped , respiration 14 , inspiration difficult .
5.31 , respiration 18 , noisy , as if the air passages Comparative Action of Stovaine and , etc. 147 contained fluid .
10.0 , fowl very unsteady , comparatively cold ; abdomen ecchymosed .
Fowl died during the night .
Post-mortem examination showed ecchymosis of skin of abdomen and thorax , and effusion of blood into the pectoral muscle at the site of the puncture ; the lungs were bright red and contained much blood-stained fluid .
On the Comparative Action of Stovaine and Cocaine as measured by their Direct Effect upon the Contractility of Isolated Muscle .
By Y. H. Veley , F.RS .
, and A. D. Waller , F.RS .
( Received November 8 , \#151 ; Read December 9 , 1909 .
) It has been shown by Yeley* that the affinity values of stovaine and cocaine by the methyl orange and borax precipitation methods are approximately equal .
The method of measuring physiological activity of anaesthetic drugs , as described by Waller , f affords an independent control that can usefully be compared with affinity values .
Stovaine , sometimes called amyleine hydrochloride and originally prepared by Fourneau , has been successfully applied in recent years , especially for spinal anaesthesia , as also for general surgery and dentistry .
As it is used for the same purposes and in doses of the same order as cocaine , the relative value of the two drugs has been compared in a series of memoirs or notices , more than 150 in number in various clinical journals .
The general conclusions arrived at are : ( 1 ) as anaesthetics the drugs are of equal value , but stovaine produces vaso-dilatation , cocaine vaso-constriction ; and ( 2 ) stovaine is less toxic than cocaine .
The statement has even been made that stovaine does not produce any toxic effect .
Though , as stated above , the affinity values are approximately equal , yet the chemical constitution of the two compounds is wholly dissimilar .
Stovaine is the hydrochloride of methyl ethyl dimethylamino-methyl carbinol benzoate HC1C(0H3)[CH2N(CH3)2](02H5)0Bz and the base ( molecular weight = 235 ) , a benzoyl derivative of a diamino-tertiary amyl alcohol C(CH3)2(C2H5)OH ( Fourneau).^ Cocaine ( molecular weight of base = 303 ) is the methyl ester of benzoyl * 'Trans .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1909 , p. 763 .
t ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' June 24 , 1909 .
\ ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1904 , vol. 138 , p. 766 .

