]\gt ; XV .
On the of the Specific Heats of Some Compound J. W. CAPSTICK , , D. Sc. , Fellow of Trinity College , by J. J. THOMSON , F.R. Received nuary 2 , \mdash ; Read February 14 , 1895 .
: S 1 .
Introduction .
experiments to be described in the present paper are a continuation of those of hich I gave an account in the ' Phil. Trans vol. .
] .
It is shown there , from experiments on methane , ethane , and propane , and their brivatives , that the monohalogen derivatives of one paraffin have in the gaseous iate the same ratio of the specihc heats , and that this ratio is the same as that of the Sdrocarbon itself in two of the three series .
Methane proved to be an exception , aving a higher ratio than its derivatives .
It seemed to be a matter of some interest to find whether the same was true of nnsaturated hydrocarbons and their monohalogen derivatives , and also to find the of introducing more than one halogen atom into the molecule .
The aim of most the experiments described below was to get information on these two points .
It is not necessary to give a detailed account of the apparatus and method of procedure , since they were the same as those described in the ) aper mentioned above .
dust-figure apparatus was used for finding the ratio of the wave-lengths of und of a given pitch in .
and in the gas under investigation , ) of the ipecific heats was calculated by means of the formula ; S3 .
Chloroform , The tables and figures have in this and most of the succeeding edses the case SPECIFIC HEATS OF SOME COMPOUND GASES .
S7 .
Ethylene .
For the material I was indebted to the kindness of Professor DEWAR , who gave me cylinder of compressed ethylene .
As the critical temperature of ethylene is near be ordinary atmospheric temperature , the bottle was placed in a freezing mixture to osure the contents being liquefied , and so to keep back by fractional distillation any there and water that had escaped the preliminary washing and drying of the gas .
AMAGAT'S experiments on the compressibility of ethylene enable us to calculate correction due to deviation from BOYLE'S Law .
Since , however , the lowest aessure used by AMAGAT was 30 atmospheres , the correction term must be put in a lightly different form .
Using VAN DER WAALS ' equation express the relation between , and , it is easily shown that the correction term es the form ) BAYNES has calculated VAN WAALS ' constants from AnIAGAT'S observations , nd finds ( ' Nature , ' vol. 22 , p. 186 ) .
00786 , .
Hence since in .xperiments and , we get the correction Two determinations of the velocity of sound at atmospheric pressure gave the ollowing results , the theoretical value of the density of the gas being used in the alculation of TABLE 8 .
8 .
Vinyl Bromide .
The material was made by gently warming ethylene dibromide with alcoholic tash .
The issuing gas was condensed , fractionated , allowed to stand over calcium ohloride , and again fractionated .
Four weighed tubes to contain the liquid for vapour-density determinations were fflkd in a freezing mixture , but on coming to the temperature of the room two burst , that only two were left for use .
These gave the following results:\mdash ; NDCCCXCV .
SPECIFIC HEATS OF SOME COMPOUND ASFS .
.581 TABLE XXII .
Previous determinations of the ratio of the specific heats of carbon the following results:\mdash ; All bhese observers have used the equations of a perfect gas .
My own result would be without the correction for deviation from BOyLE'S Law .
S 12 .
Carbon Bisulphide .
The liquid was first distilled from lime over which it had stood several days .
It was then shaken repeatedly with mercury , dried with calcium chloride , and redistilled .
As the determinations of the absolute vapour density give an unsatisfactory curve , two of the experiments giving values rather more than a tenth per cent. away the curve through the other three , a separate experiment was made to find the 1 ratative densities in the usual way .
The results of this experiment are shown in ' Table XXIII .
, and fig. 8 .
XXIII .
'STICK ON THE RATIO OF THE TABLE XXX Fig. 10 .
TABLE XXXIL SPECIFIC ] OF SOME COMPOUND GASES .
, for instance , the molecules and have the same energy *orbing power , from which it follows , with a high degree of probability , that the logen atoms in these molecules , in spite of their great difference in mass , absorb the share of the total energy .
It is very improbable that if they did not , the distribution of energy in the molecule on interchange of the halogens would result in the total capacity being unchanged .
Similarly , we may infer from the behaviour of hydrogen , ethane , and propane that the chlorine atom in some cases have the energy absorbing power as the hydrogen it replaces .
An instance of another kind of interchange can be made withou disturbing \amp ; distribution of energy , is seen in the case of the two propyl chlorides and the two \amp ; hlorethanes .
Trusting to graphic formulae the chemist explains the difference bekeen the two members of a pair as being due to a hydrogen changing places with aohlorine within the molecule , the configuration being in other respects unchanged .
The relation of methyl acetate to ethyl formate is explained in a somewhat similar ray , for if we write the formula of ethyl formate in the f'orm can convert it into that of methyl acetate by interchanging and CO. Thus it appears that , if we can trust graphic formulae to give information of this kind , groups may be interchanged without disturbing .
It would be of terest to carry this point farther , and find whether one of the groups could be removed from the aolecule , and the other put in its place without altering .
Has , for instance , nethyl-ethyl oxide , which would be obtained by replacing CO in either of the above by , the same ?
It is probable that valuable information on the status of the radicle might be got by the determination of for a number of suitably chosen compounds .
It appears then that a single atom of hydrogen , oxygen or carbon can in many cases be replaced by chlorine , sulphur and silicon respectively , with ut disturbing the distribution of energy in the molecule , but in no case investigated can the replacement be repeated without bringing about a large increase in .
Hence we conclude that an atom has not an intrinsic heat capacity which it carries with it unchanged into any gaseous molecule of which it forms part , but that it is affected by its ighbours .
In other words is not an additive quantity , for the configuration of the molecule plays a part in the distribution of energy .
My experiments would not be inconsistent with the supposition that the configuration is the sole that fixes the distribution , but until definite evidence is with regard to the physical significance of radicles\mdash ; this must ' main no more than a suggestion .
It was pointed out many years ago by NAUMANN , when experimental evidence was , that divided the number of atoms in the molecule was nearly equal : to .
If this held generally , it would be an important fact , for it would point of the nature of BOLTZMANN'S Theorem being true , and as the statement is umetimes quoted by , I have given the quotients in question in the fifth

