84* Mr , H. H. Dale .
[ Dec. 11 , " The ' Islets of Langerhans ' of the Pancreas .
" By H. H. Dale , B.Ch .
, George Henry Lewes Student .
Communicated by Professor Starling , M.D. , F.E.S. Received December 11 , 1903 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , 1904 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , UniversityX'olloge .
) ( Abstract .
) These structures were first described by Langerhans in 1869 .
They have since been found by many observers in the pancreas of every species of mammal , bird , reptile , and amphibian in which they have been looked for .
Kiihne and Lea first recognised the peculiarly rich plexus of wide blood-capillaries in the islets .
As regards their function , they have been regarded as connected with the nervous system , as lymphatic structures , as embryonic remnants , as patches of exhausted or degenerate pancreatic tissue , as furnishing a particular constituent of the pancreatic juice , and as internally secreting ductless glandular tissue , furnishing a substance necessary for normal carbohydrate metabolism , and quite unconnected with the externally secreting function of the pancreas .
This last view has received support from many observations of the degeneration or absence of the islets in diabetes , and from the statement of several observers that , after occlusion of the pancreatic duct , the islets remain intact when the ordinary secretory tissue has disappeared .
Lewaschew , in 1885 , first stated that activity of the pancreas led to an increase in the number of the islets , and that intermediate forms between the ordinary secretory tissue and the islets could be found , and were more abundant after activity .
This statement has been confirmed by Pischinger , Maximow , and Tschassownikow , and has also been repeatedly contradicted .
Laguesse describes a perpetual change of secretory tissue into islets and , the islets being , in his view , pancreatic tissue in an internally secreting stage , and representing also the stage during which growth takes place .
My observations have been made on the pancreas of the dog , cat , rabbit , and toad .
The pancreas was hardened in a mixture of corrosive sublimate and formaldehyde , sections cut in paraffin and stained with toluidine-blue and eosine .
The islets appear , with a low magnification , as relatively unstained areas .
The pancreas was examined in conditions of " rest " ( normal activity ) , of exhaustion produced by prolonged administration of secretin , and of starvation .
Exhaustion was produced in the mammals ( cat and dog ) by repeated injections of secretin into the jugular vein during 6\#151 ; 12 hours , accompanied by bleeding towards the end of the jgQo -j rfhe " Islets of Langerhans " of Pancreas .
experiment , until the pancreas ceased or almost ceased to secrete .
The animals were anaesthetised with morphia and A.C.E. mixture .
In the toad , secretin was injected into the dorsal lymph-sac by a hypodermic needle during 2\#151 ; 4 days .
The effect of starvation was observed in a stray cat , picked up in an emaciated condition and killed immediately , and in toads which had been for several months in the laboratory tank .
In the resting glands of all the species the intermediate forms described by Lewaschew were observed , the islets being formed by an assimilation of the secreting epithelium to the centro-aeinary cells and the epithelium of the ductules , with later rearrangement of the cells attended by formation of the wide tortuous blood-capillaries .
In the toad evidence was also found of reconstruction of secreting alveoli from islets and of cell-multiplication in the islet stage .
The effect of exhaustion was in all cases the same\#151 ; a very extensive conversion of the secretory tissue of the gland into large islets , of irregular outline , retaining obvious traces of their former alveolar structure , and containing numerous intermediate forms .
Specimens have been obtained from a dog with the greater part of a lobule , and from a toad with the greater part of the whole pancreas thus converted .
The effect of prolonged starvation was , on the whole , very similar to that of exhaustion , but slighter in degree .
Experiments on the dog* and rabbit were also made to observe the effect of occluding the pancreatic duct .
There resulted in all cases an interstitial fibrosis .
The areas of pancreas not destroyed assumed the islet condition , but the preformed islets showed no special immunity from destruction .
The experiments leave the question of the function of the islets undecided , but the results of occlusion of the duct are in favour of Laguesse 's view that they represent an internally secreting stage in the life of pancreatic tissue .
# On the dog only one experiment was made , in which the operation was performed for other purposes by Professor Starling .

