]\gt ; On the Friction between Water April 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. President , in the Chair .
Presents laid on the table , and thallks ordered for them .
The Papers crc read : I. Expcriments on the riction betwccll Watcr and Air By .
Communicated by N. STORY MASKELYNE , , Kceper of the heral Dcpartment , British .
Rcccived Fcbruary 28 , The for the 1fiiction of and in glass tubc of ith the pipcs pply 1 atcr four cres .
cments f a position the perfcctl a glass OUIlding this ith its coinciding that jct , acts tspirat o into .
which air is of this to { hc of giveu alnouut of mined by obsert , hc } a iilm of borne the tubc ; the 1 elocity of the ' causing the calculated of the atcl column and the qunntity of ater disit in a ; but after 011CC deternlined tho form of the column , the of rved the only datum for the from .
of or less section of .-tubc ou tbc the nlso bsen of ciable 1tion d to the the ] ] ical the of the ( ns the result of experiments hich ion of ns erved)uovemcllt of in lines to the axis tube long it and the pressurc of the tubo , tho to discuss llftlnic c eeprcssing the ( the problem ( tho of ] dent of tilnc)epreseuts the oltlUlC of fhc :\mdash ; , .
442 Dr. J. Wickham Leg on the [ Apr. 6 , being eight of water , in grammes , discharged in a second , the radius of tho jet in turns of the turns of which correspond to 1 centim being the radius of the aspirating tube .
The results obtained by observation accorded well with thosc given by this equation , so as the value of did not exceed the limit within which the suppositions regarding the motion of the air hold good .
The question lvas considered whether the results mightJlot bs brought into even closer accord theory by the assumption that a slipping action takes the air and the water-jet on the one hand , and veen the { the tube on the other , inste of the assun1ption pre- made that the .
adhered alike to the water and to ube in its passage .
The result of the tion , } , led to no nearel proximation ; and , finally , experiments with other ' the tube and other gnses mely , and carbonic aJlhydride ) made , without resulting in any malked difference from the results obtnined with air and glass .
II .
An Inquiry into the Cause of the slolY Pulse in mdice By J. WICKHAM , Demonstrator of Morbid Anatomy in St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by J. BultDoN SANDERSON , M.D. , Professol of in Uniycrsity Cold London .
Rcceiyed February It long been ) to physicinns thnt the of jaundiced from is often .
But I am with any into this ) teell jears hell RohIig pllblic } ed his upon the cncc cf hc bile upon he hc { he irst to find 1Le , not the pigments nor he the ' to render pulcc slow .
He formed the used by psrftlvsis of the rdiac g.use tho pulse became after the of the hcll ) gi been cut , { bec the heart of frog , cut otlt nnd } tion of , beat a lc of times heu cut out imulersed in The { publis } ed nn .
It is ell that the bil -acids ) { he of ' undc , , " " dcn dic } ' .
Llinischc C4 , .
t ) ) : tuclte .
p. 3

