Trans : No. 51 .
1 1 A BB K 22 C A C K C ddd33 AKF 7 9999 dh~8hh8hh8hh8h ~h8hh8hh8hh8h E6 5E d4 Numb51 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
September 20 .
1669 .
The Contents .
The Process used in France of making Sea-salt by the Sun .
An Answer to some Inquiries about the late Eruption of Mount AEtna .
An Account of two books : I. DISCOURSE de M. STENON sir L ' ANATOMY du CERVEAU I I. The former Account of Dr Witties ANSWER to H YD ROLOGIACHYMICA enlarged : Where the sanative virtue of the Scarborough Spaw is asserted from long experience ; and on that occasion the Healing performances of many other Waters , both in England and elsewhere , discoursed of ; together with their particular Cures , Ingredients , Mixtures , and the Ways of Analysing them ; as also the Necessity of using them or most of them at the Spring-head , &amp;c. An Extract of a Letter Containing the whole Process , used in France for making Sea-Salt by the Sun ; communicated to the Publisher in French , by an Ingenious Dr of Physic of that Nation , residing near the chief place , where 't is practised ; and Englished as follows : Sir , I Can at present acquit myself but of one of the Commissions , you gave me when I took my leave of you , referring the other to more leisure .
And I herewith send you the Plan * of our Salt-making Marishes , Ddddd together together with the Way of making our Salt .
If there be any thing , I have forgot , or related obscurely , give yourself only the trouble of advertizing me of it , and in my next I will add or clear it .
AA A. is the Sea .
I I. the Entry , by which the Sea-water passes into B B. B B. the first Receptacle ; in which the Water is kept 20 .
inches deep .
CC C. the second Receptacle , where the Water makes three turnings , as you see , and is 10 .
inches deep .
22 .
the Opening , by which the first and second Receptacle have communication one with another .
EE F. the third Receptacle , which is properly called the Marish .
ddddd d. is a Channel very narrow , through which the Water must pass before it enters out of the second Receptacle into the third .
33 .
is the Opening , by which the Water runs out of the second into the third Receptacle .
The pricks , you see in the Water throughout the whole Scheme , doe mark the course and turnings , which the Water is forced to make before it comes to hhhh h , which are the places where the Salt is made .
hhhh h. are the Beds of the Marish , where the Salt is made ; and in them the Water must not be above an inch and an half deep .
Each of these Beds is 15 foot long and 14 foot large .
99999 .
are the little Channels between the Beds .
88888 .
are the Apertures , by which the Beds receive the Sea-water after many windings and turnings .
When it rains , the openings 22 , 33 .
are stopped , to hinder the Water from running into the Marish mark't EE F. Unless it rain much , the rain-water doth little hurt to the Marish ; and although it rain a day or a night , we doe not let the water which is in the Marish run out , the heat of the Sun sufficiently exhaling such Rain-water , if , for example it be not above an inch high .
Only , if it have rained very plentifully that day , no Salt is drawn for the 3 .
or 4 .
next-following days .
But if it rain 5 .
or 6 .
days , the people are then necessitated to empty all the Water of the Beds by a peculiar Channel , conveighing it into the Sea ; which Channel cannot be opened , but when it is Low water .
But it is very seldom , that it rains so long as to constrain men to empty those Beds .
It is obvious , that the hottest years make the most Salt ; where yet it is to be noted , that besides the heat of the Sun , the Winds contribute much to it , in regard that less Salt is made in Calm , than in Windy weather .
The West-and Northwest Winds are the best for this purpose .
Our Country-people draw the Salt every other day , and they draw out of those Beds , mark't hh h , every time more than an hundred pound weight of Salt .
In the hottest part of the Summer there is Salt made even during Night .
The Instruments used to draw the Salt , have many small holes , to let the Water pass , and to retain nothing but the Salt .
According to the Quality of the Earth or Ground of the Marish , the Salt is made more or less White .
The Reddish earth makes the Salt more Gray ; the Bluish , more White : Besides , if you let run in a little more water than you ought , the Salt becoms thence more White ; but then it yields not so much .
Generally all the Marishes require a fat Earth , neither Spungy nor Sandy .
And as to the Whiteness of Salt in particular , there are 3 .
things to be considered : First , that the Earth of the Marish be proper .
Secondly , that the Salt be made with good store of water .
Thirdly , That the Salt-man , who draws it , be dextrous .
In this Isle of Rhe there are , that draw very dark Salt , and others , that draw it as white as Snow ; and so it is in Xaintonge .
Chiefly care is to be taken , that the Earth at the bottom of the Beds mingle not with the Salt .
The Salt , we use at our Tables , is perfectly white ; which is thence , that 4 .
or 5 .
hours before the Salt is to be drawn , we draw the Creme , or that Salt which is formed on the top of the water .
The grains of it are smaller , than of the other .
Generally the Salt of Xaintonge is somewhat whiter , than ours .
I do not well know the Ddddd2 bigness bigness of the Sea-Salt made by Fire ; but ours is of the size of a Pepper-grain , and of a Cubical shape .
The Marishes are preserved from one year to another by overflowing them , so that the water be near a foot high above the Marishes .
There are Marishes , that are not separated from the Sea but by a ditch of 20 .
or 30 .
foot large : others are further distant , receiving the Water by Channels , that are made according to the Scituation of the Marishes .
To preserve this Ditch , it is strengthened with stones from the foot to the top , as we use to pave streets .
The Timber of the Marishes , if it be of good Oak , keeps near thirty years ; but there is used but little Wood , all the Ditches and Apertures being done with stones .

