On the Tusks of the Narwhale .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. F.R.S. Read February 18 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 126 .
] The author acknowledges himself indebted to the laudable zeal of Mr. Scoresby , jun .
of Whitby , for the greatest part of the information which he here lays before the Society .
Although the tusk of this animal is not uncommon , its skull has very rarely been brought into this country ; and hence there has been little opportunity to correct the erroneous account given by travellers on this subject , who have generally maintained that the perfect narwhale has two of these tusks , although it is very common for one of them to be broken off .
This opinion respecting the existence of two tusks has gained a more general belief in this country , from the exhibition of a stuffed narwhale for many years in the Leverian Museum , but in which it is observed that the second tusk was artificially fastened in its place .
The fact , says the author , is , that there is never more than one tusk in the full-grown narwhale , and this is always in the left socket ; but there is also observable , on the right side , another socket , in which it is presumed that the milk-tusk had been contained , and afterwards shed .
A further observation of Mr. Scoresby 's on this subject is , that the tusk of this animal is confined to the male , and consequently will not serve for a distinctive character of the species , as has hitherto been supposed .
A drawing of a female skull given to Sir Everard Home by Mr. Scoresby accompanies this communication .
Simple inspection of this skull is represented by the author as sufficient to satisfy all doubts upon the subject , as there is no place provided for an adult tusk , although in all pther respects it resembles that of the male , excepting that the milk-tusk appears to have been placed on the left side instead of the right .
Along with the drawing of the female skull is a representation also of a male skull now in the Hunterian Collection : and upon comparison of them , it is observed that that of the female appears broader in proportion to its length than that of the male , for want of that prominence in the fore part that supports the tusk of the male , which , it is observed , was in this instance five feet long , although it is evident , from the state of the sutures , that the animal had not attained its full growth .
Many other instances are well known to naturalists , of tusks confined to the male of several species , as in the horse ; but since the elephant is the only animal that can in bulk and proportional size of tusk be compared with the narwhale , and since the female elephant has tusks as well as the male , analogy had not suggested a doubt concerning the existence of them in the female narwhale ; and hence the observation of a fact that could not otherwise have been ascertained becomes proportionally interesting .

