110 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Duration of Luminosity of [ Dec. 19 , In the two-dimensional examples it might be possible to pursue the approximation by determining the character of the irregular waves , at least to a certain extent , somewhat as in the question of the correction for the open end of an organ pipe .
Duration of Luminosity of Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
By the Hon. B. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received December 19 , 1912 , \#151 ; Read January 16 , 1913 .
) S 1 .
Introduction .
The electric discharge produces luminosity in any gas or vapour through which it passes .
The question presents itself , Does the luminosity persist after the current has ceased , or does it stop immediately ?
A full answer is likely to be of great importance in unravelling the cause and mechanism of the luminosity .
There are existing observations bearing on the subject , but these are somewhat scattered in the literature , and , so far as I am aware , their mutual relations have not been pointed out .
It is hoped in this paper to do something towards systematising and extending them .
The most conspicuous phenomena in this connection are the various forms of afterglow which have been discussed in previous papers.* But these are not really relevant to the present subject , for they are due to secondary causes of a chemical nature .
Some of them , produced in gaseous mixtures containing oxygen , are due to the interaction of ozone with other substances present .
Others , again , are connected with the formation of an active modification of nitrogen .
In none of these cases can the after-luminosity be considered continuous with the luminosity of the discharge which produced it .
For it is always much less brilliant , even at first , and always has a quite different spectrum .
Several experimenters have found , by examining the leyden jar spark with a rotating mirror , that its luminosity may persist much longer than the * 'Phys .
Soc. Proc. , * 1910 , vol. 23 , pp. 66 , 147 ; 1911 , vol. 24 , p. 1 ; 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. 85 , pp. 219 , 377 , 533 ; 1912 , vol. 86 , pp. 56 , 105 , 262 , 529 ; 1912 , vol. 87 , pp. 179 , 302 .
Ill 1912 .
] Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
electric current which gave rise to the luminosity.* This effect is observed when the electrodes are formed of a metal more or less easy of volatilisation .
If a non-volatile metal like platinum is used , the spark current passes only through air , and no persistence of luminosity is observed .
For this reason such sparks are suitable as a source of light for the photography of flying bullets .
So far I have referred to the case of negligible inductance in the spark circuit .
If the inductance is considerable , the ( alternating ) current is , of course , prolonged thereby .
In this case new streams of luminous vapour come off from the volatile electrodes at each oscillation , and add their effect to that of the luminous vapour already accumulated there .
These are the " streamers .
" The term is conveniently extended to the case of an almost non-inductive circuit .
Here there are , of course , still a number of streamers ; but they cannot be separated at any practicable speed of the mirror , and therefore appear to form one single stream of luminous vapour from each electrode .
The streamers , and the persistence of luminosity , can also be shown by a method due to Hemsalech.f He uses a coil with an iron core ; the hysteresis losses in the core reduce the spark to one single oscillation ; and the duration of the luminosity is observed by blowing the luminous vapour away by a rapid current of air .
The luminous track can be followed for an appreciable distance , and spectroscopic observations show which lines last longest .
The connection of the streamers with another known phenomenon does not seem to have been explicitly pointed out .
This is the so-called " aureole " of the mercury vapour lamp.$ If an arc discharge is passed between mercury electrodes in an exhausted vessel , intense luminosity is produced , and enough heat developed to raise considerable vapour pressure over the mercury electrodes .
If provision is made for allowing the mercury vapour to distil away into a cooled receiver , the moving stream of vapour is found to carry its luminosity with it .
The intensity diminishes as the vapour gets further from the lamp , owing to the lapse of time during its journey ; but it is important to notice that there is perfect continuity in intensity from the * Boys , 'Nature , ' vol. 47 , p. 416 , 1893 ; l Schuster and Hemsalech , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1900 , A , vol. 193 , p. 189 ; Schenck , 'Astrophys .
Journ. , ' 1901 , vol. 14 , p. 116 ; Milner , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1909 , A , vol. 209 , p. 71 .
+ 'Comptes Rendus , ' 1910 , vol. 150 , p. 1743 ; 1910 , vol. 151 , p. 220 .
X Stark and Reich , ' Phys. Zeit.,5 1903 , vol. 4 , p. 324 ; Stark , ' Phys. Zeit .
, ' 1903 , vol. 4 , p. 440 ; Stark , ' Ann. d. Pliys.,5 1904 , vol. 14 , p. 522 ; Stark , Retschinsky , and SchnaposnikofF , 'Ann .
d. Phys. , ' 1905 , vol. 18 , p. 231 ; W. Matthies , 1910 , 'Verh .
d. Deut .
Phys. Gesell.,5 1910 , vol. 12 , p. 754 .
112 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Duration of Luminosity of [ Dec. 19 , point where it leaves the lamp until it is completely extinguished.* Immediately after it has left the region where the arc is passing , it is not appreciably less luminous than in the arc .
How far the luminosity will travel depends on the size of the tube , and the resulting velocity of flow .
Under favourable conditions , the luminosity may be made to travel 50 cm .
, or even more .
If the channel is anywhere less than about 3 mm. diameter , the luminosity hardly travels any appreciable distance from the arc .
The mass of mercury distilled in a few minutes amounts to several grammes , and consequently the linear velocity of the rarefied vapour must be very great It is estimated by Stark as of the order of 3 x 104 cm .
per second .
This method of observing the duration of the luminosity is much more advantageous than the preceding , where it can be applied .
Great practical difficulties stand in the way of applying it to cases other than mercury , though they may , perhaps , be overcome in some instances .
S 2 .
New Method of Observing the Streamers .
The principle is as follows : The electrodes are wires of the metal under investigation , aa } bb , fig. 1 .
They are inserted into the opposite ends of a Fig. 1 .
glass tube c of 1*5 or 2 mm. internal diameter ( Sprengel tubing ) so that the ends are about 5 mm. apart .
A hole d is blown in the side of the tube , between the ends of the wire , and when the jar spark passes , the metallic vapour formed is blown out of this hole , and out of the region of electric force between the electrodes .
The volume of vapour formed is not enough * Under some experimental conditions there are alternations of light and darkness .
These are due , as Matthies has pointed out , to alternations of higher and lower pressure produced by hydrodynamical causes .
1912 .
] Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
113 to distinctly exude from the hole at atmospheric pressure ; hut the tube is arranged inside a receiver e which can be exhausted , and the effect becomes conspicuous at a pressure of a few millimetres of mercury .
The vapour is shot out of the side hole in a distinct jet several millimetres in length , visible by its own luminosity , which is seen to be continuous with that of the spark .
The jar is charged by an induction coil and an air gap is used in series with the apparatus of fig. 1 .
When the metal is difficult to obtain in the form of wire , iron wires may be used , and a fragment of the volatile metal under investigation introduced into the gap , and in contact with the end of one wire .
The same method is applicable to non-metals , such as sulphur and iodine .
The apparatus must be placed with d upwards in this case .
At pressures of a few millimetres of mercury the luminous jet is of small volume , the vapour making its way out in a comparatively narrow and sharply defined stream .
The outlines of the mass of luminous vapour are curiously hard , and not infrequently ragged and irregular .
Under these conditions , the residual air in the spark gap is driven out along with the metallic vapour , and gives the characteristic greenish-yellow afterglow , due to the reaction of ozone with nitric oxide .
This luminosity ts far more persistent than that due to the metal , and is perceptible right across the vessel , as a prolongation of the stream of metallic vapour .
The metallic glow is much the more brilliant , during the short time for which it lasts .
In fig. 2 the shading a represents the luminous metallic Fig. 2 .
vapour , b the greenish-yellow afterglow , which flattens itself out against the glass wall , as shown .
As the air pressure is reduced the greenish-yellow afterglow just mentioned disappears , and the metallic glow spreads out and becomes more diffuse .
At moderate vacua , say 1 mm. or less pressure , it issues almost 114 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Duration of Luminosity of [ Dec. 19 , equally over a wide angle from the aperture ; and its outline is rounded ( fig. 3).* At high vacua the vapour may expand enough to fill nearly the whole of a 300 c.e. flask : but in this case the luminosity is diluted to extreme faintness .
\gt ; \#166 ; ! .
A t'-irr* ' ; : Fig. 3 .
At these low pressures it is difficult or impossible to prevent stray electrical discharges through the outer vessel , of the kind called ( not very correctly ) electrostatic .
These give rise to a faint luminosity of their own , particularly in the connecting tubes leading to the pump .
It is certain , however , that the metallic glows described are not connected with this , since there are no stray discharges when air is present to a pressure of a few millimetres ; and the phenomena can be traced continuously from that stage .
S 3 .
Effects with Vapours of Various Elements .
The vapours investigated all gave line spectra exclusively : \#151 ; Sodium.\#151 ; Bright yellow glow .
Could be made to fill large volume .
Thallium.\#151 ; Bright green glow .
Conspicuous .
Calcium.\#151 ; Good orange glow .
Zinc and Cadmium.\#151 ; Well developed , greenish glows .
Mercury.\#151 ; Amalgamated copper electrodes were used , which , however , only carried enough mercury for a short time .
Glow much more brilliant and voluminous than in most other cases , on account of the brilliancy of the mercury discharge and the volatility of the metal .
Colour , greenish .
Arsenic.\#151 ; Dull yellow glow , not very striking .
Glass soon obscured by the deposited metal .
Magnesium.\#151 ; An interesting effect wTas observed in this case .
As the surrounding air was removed , the glow which first emerged was bright green .
As , however , the pressure diminished , a blue glow was seen at the base of the luminous cloud ( see fig. 3 ) , where x is the blue portion , surrounded by the outer green envelope y. The glow at this stage was focussed on the slit of a spectroscope , and it was seen that the luminosity of the blue line 4481 from the side hole extended a short distance only , while the green * The significance of the shading is not the same in fig. 3 as in fig. 2 .
For explanation of the different shading of the inner part of the mass of metallic vapour in fig. 3 see below .
1912 .
] Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
triplet 5172 extended two or three times as far .
The former line is characteristic of the spark discharge only ; the latter appears in the arc as well .
Lead.\#151 ; A similar effect is noticed in this case .
The light which first issues from the side hole is blue ; this expands to the usual rounded form ( fig. 3 ) as the air is removed , and eventually an inner zone of greyish light ( x , fig. 3 ) emerges very clearly distinct from the outer reddish blue one ( y , fig. 3 ) .
The spectrum of this glow was photographed , and , as before , the spark lines were confined to the inner zone , while the arc lines extended right through to the limits of the outer one .
The principal spark lines photographed were 4386 and 4246 , while the chief arc lines were 4062 , 3740 , 3683 , and 3572 .
These results for magnesium and lead confirm the conclusions obtained by Milner.* Using a revolving mirror to draw out the spectrum of the spark , he found that the arc lines were much the most persistent .
Probably a closer spectroscopic scrutiny of the various glows I obtained would show other instances .
In the particular cases cited , the difference is conspicuous by direct colour observation , without the spectroscope .
Selenium gave a fine , well-developed glow , filling a great part of the outer vessel with brilliant luminosity .
The red deposit of sublimed selenium on the glass soon hindered observation , and made it necessary to clean the outer vessel .
Sulphur gave an extensive blue glow , showing , like selenium , the line spectrum .
It is clear that phenomena of this class are not confined to the metals , as I was at one time disposed to think .
Phosphorus also gave a glow .
Iodine gave a not very extended glow .
The colour of the spark itself was green .
Many of the lines in this green light did not penetrate any appreciable distance out , and the glow due to the remainder had a buff colour , with a blue outer fringe .
There is room for a more detailed investigation of this and the other halogens in connection with their general spectroscopy .
S 4 .
Effects with the Common Gases .
Substantially the same method is applicable in this case .
The discharge tube may have an internal diameter of 5 mm. , and the electrodes may be 1 cm .
apart .
The latter may be of iron , which does not volatilise appreciably under the conditions .
They should be large enough to fill the entire diameter of the tube .
The gas , heated by the discharge , will not then have any means of escape , except through the lateral hole .
It is forced out , and shows luminosity , as do the metallic vapours .
* 4 Phil. Trans. , ' 1909 , A , vol. 209 , p. 77 .
VOL. LXXXVIII.\#151 ; A. K 116 Dura tion of Luminosity of Electric Discharge in Gases .
Since it is necessary to have an appreciable quantity of the gas in the region between the electrodes , we cannot reduce the gas pressure in the surrounding vessel very low , as was possible when experimenting with the vapours of solids .
Such vapours are formed inside the inner discharge vessel when the spark passes .
The gases , on the other hand , must be present in the inner vessel to begin with , and therefore necessarily in the outer one too , which is in communication with it .
For this reason no great expansion of the exuded glow can be obtained in the outer vessel .
Partly on this account , but much more , I believe , owing to the inherently short life of their luminosity , the exuded glow obtained with the permanent gases is a comparatively inconspicuous effect .
I have never got the glow to travel out more than about 5 mm. from the orifice .
Hydrogen shows the effect best .
The most suitable pressure with this , as with the other gases , is about 1 cm .
of mercury , at least , with the above dimensions of apparatus .
The luminosity is fiery red ( due mainly to Ha ) and not much less brilliant than the spark itself .
It dies out very abruptly .
Under some conditions it is succeeded by the blue afterglow of Hertz , after the fashion of fig. 2 .
The latter I have shown to be connected with a sulphur impurity.* Nitrogen or air do not show the effect at all conspicuously .
The luminosity scarcely exudes perceptibly from the orifice , presumably owing to its very short duration .
What there is of it shows the nitrogen line spectrum .
When pure nitrogen is used , the glow of long duration , due to active nitrogen , may sometimes be seen extending right across the vessel .
But this is not very conspicuous , for , as shown previously , !
a discharge giving only the line spectrum does not excite it .
J Oxygen gives the effect almost as well as hydrogen .
The exuded glow shows the line spectrum .
Carbon dioxide also shows the duration of its luminosity by the exuded glow .
This gives a band spectrum identical with that of the discharge\#151 ; the only band spectrum observed in these experiments .
S 5 .
Summary .
The luminosity of the electric discharge appreciably survives the current not only in metallic vapours but also in the vapours of non-metals , and in the permanent gases .
The luminosity fades away in a continuous manner , * See ' Proc. Boy .
Soc. , ' 1912 , A , vol. 86 , p. 529 .
t Fowler and Strutt , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. 85 , p. 385 .
J Presumably some trace of the band spectrum is present in these experiments , or it would not be excited at all .
Positive Ionisation Produced by Platinum tvhen Heated .
117 and without immediate change of spectrum , when the current ceases .
Sometimes , however , a change of spectrum eventually results from unequal decay of the lines .
These effects , which last less than 1/ 1000 of a second , are distinct , not only in degree , but in kind from the afterglows in nitrogen , in gaseous mixtures containing oxygen , and in gaseous mixtures containing hydrogen , previously investigated .
These have durations extending in some cases to several minutes , and their spectra are from the first radically different from those of the exciting discharges .
As previously shown , they are due to secondary chemical actions of substances produced by the discharge .
The Positive Ionisation Produced by Platinum and by Certain Salts when Heated .
By Frank Horton , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , F.R.S. Received November 28 , 1912 , \#151 ; Read January 16 , 1913 .
) In the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society ' for 1910 , * there is an account of a spectroscopic investigation of the nature of the carriers of positive electricity when an electric current is sent from a glowing platinum strip covered with aluminium phosphate to a surrounding platinum electrode , the whole being contained in a highly evacuated vessel .
It was found that aluminium phosphate heated under these conditions evolved carbon monoxide gas , and as a molecule of this gas carrying a single electronic charge gives a value for ejm which agrees fairly well with the mean value found for the carriers of positive electricity from heated metals , it was concluded that the positive ions are charged molecules of carbon monoxide .
Hydrogen was also detected in the gas evolved by the hot electrode in this experiment , and it now seems probable that atoms of hydrogen also take part in carrying the current , for Garrett has found that about 10 per cent , of the positive ions present when aluminium phosphate is heated on a platinum strip in a vacuum have a mass corresponding to that of the hydrogen atom.f A different view of the nature of the positive ions from glowing metals and metallic salts is held by Prof. O. W. Richardson .
As the result of * Series A , vol. 84 , p. 433 .
t A. E. Garrett , ' Phil. Mag.,5 1910 , VI , vol. 20 , p. 582 .

