On new Compounds of Carbon and Hydrogen , and on certain other Products obtained during the Decomposition of Oil by Heat .
By M. Faraday , F.R.S. Cor. Mem. Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris , 8rc .
Read June 16 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 440 .
] The experiments of which the results are detailed in this paper , were made principally on the fluid which is found to be deposited in considerable quantity when oil-gas is compressed .
This fluid , as obtained at the works of the Portable Oil-gas Company , is colourless , of a specific gravity less than that of water ; insoluble in water except in very minute quantities ; soluble in alcohol , ether , oils , &amp;c. ; and combustible , burning with a dense flame .
It is strikingly distinguished from the oil from which it originated , by not being acted upon to any extent by solutions of the alkalies .
Part of this fluid is very volatile , causing the appearance of ebullition at temperatures of 50 ?
or 60 ?
; other parts are more fixed , requiring even 250 ?
, or above , for ebullition .
By repeated distillations a series of products were obtained from the most to the least volatile , the most abundant being such as occurred from 1700 to 200 ? .
On subjecting these , after numerous rectifications , to a low temperature , it was found that some of them concreted into a crystalline mass , and ultimately a substance was obtained from them , principally by pressure at low temperatures , which upon examination proved to be a new compound of carbon and hydrogen .
At common temperatures it appears as a colourless transparent liquid , of specific gravity 0*85 , at 60 ?
; having the general odour of oil-gas .
Below 42 ?
it is a solid body , forming dendritical transparent crystals , and contracting much during its congelation .
At 0 ?
it appears as a white or transparent substance , brittle , pulverulent , and of the hardness nearly of loaf-sugar .
It evaporates entirely in the air : when raised to 186 ?
it boils , furnishing a vapour , which has a specific gravity of 40 , compared to hydrogen as 1 .
At a higher temperature the vapour is decomposed , depositing carbon .
The substance is combustible , liberating charcoal if oxygen be not abundantly present .
Potassium exerts no action upon it below 186 ? .
This substance was analysed by being passed over red-hot oxide of copper , and by detonation of its vapour with oxygen .
The results obtained were , that it consists of 2 proportionals of carbon , and 1 of hydrogen = 13 ; and that in the state of vapour 6 proportionals of carbon and 3 of hydrogen are present to form 1 volume , which is consequently of the specific gravity of 39 , hydrogen being 1 .
It is named in the paper bicarburet of hydrogen .
Experimenting with the most volatile portions of the liquid , a portion was obtained , which , though gaseous at common temperatures , condensed into a liquid at 0 ? .
This was found to be very constant in composition and properties : it was very combustible : it had a specific gravity of 27 or 28 as a gas , as a liquid that of 0-627 , being the lightest substance , not a gas or vapour , known .
When analysed , it waM found to consist of one proportional of carbon 6 , and one of hydrogen 1 , as is the case with olefiant gas ; but these are so combined and condensed as to occupy only one half the volume they do in that substance .
A volume therefore of the gas contains four proportionals of carbon 24 , and four of hydrogen , 4= 28 , which is its specific gravity .
Beside the remarkable difference thus established between this substance and olefiant gas , it is also distinguished by the action of chlorine , which forms with it a fluid body , having a sweet taste , and resembling hydrochloride of carbon , but from which a chloride of carbon cannot be obtained by the further action of chloride and light .
The other products from the original fluid do not present any characters so definite as the above substances ; at the same time they appear to be very constant , boiling uniformly at one temperature .
They cannot be separated by distillation into more and less volatile parts , so as to afford means of reducing their number to two or three particular bodies .
They have the general properties of the original fluid , and with the other products , are all peculiarly acted upon by sulphuric acid , offering phenomena , in the investigation of which the author is at present engaged .
With reference to the presence of these substances in the state of vapour in oiland coal-gas , the means of ascertaining it and the quantity are pointed out , in the peculiar action of sulphuric acid , causing their perfect condensation , and in the solvent powers over them possessed by fixed and volatile oils , &amp;c. ; the requisite precautions for their proper application being pointed out .
Oil-gas was found to be saturated with many of these vapours : coal-gas also contained a portion of them .
The paper concludes with a short reference to the probable uses of the fluid , as originally obtained .
If put into gas burning with a blue flame , it makes it produce a bright white flame ; it is an excellent solvent of caoutchouc ; it will ansWer all the purposes to which essential oils are applied as solvents ; and having applied that portion of it which , though a liquid at common temperatures and under a pressure of two or three atmospheres , is a gas under any diminished pressure , as fuel to a lamp ; the author has shown the possibility of such an application , if at any time such knowledge and command of the decomposition of oil or coal by heat should be obtained , as would enable us to furnish the substance in abundance .

