" ' An Account of some Experiments with Eccentric Oblate Bodies and Disks as Projectiles .
" By 1 .
W. WOOLLCOMBE , Esq. Communicated by Prof. SToKEs , Sec. R.S. Received March 11 , 1862 .
It is known now that , especially in the larger calibres , the rifle principle has effected more for shells than for solid shot .
A high initial velocity , it appears , cannot be attained with this principle and cylindro-ogival elongation ; this slow initial motion is , however , but slowly lost ; while in a spherical projectile , such as the 68-pound solid shot , the conditions are of a reverse kind .
The object of this paper is to place before the Royal Society an account of some experiments with models on a design which appears to me likely in large guns to effect , not only an initial velocity greater than that of spherical shot , but a terminal velocity better sustained than that of rifle projectiles .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Transverse section of Side-view of disk , actual size ; eccentric by eccentric disk , of a shallow and unfilled hole on each side actual dimensions .
Average weight of disk in cast iron , 7 'ozs .
, wrought iron , 84 ozs .
It is proposed to retain the circular periphery of a sphere only in the line of motion , and by cutting away the opposite sides of a sphere in parallel planes , say to half the radius , leave a disk , in that case with a zone of 60 ?
( fig. 1 ) .
vox .
II .
17 c I am informed by Professor Stokes , who kindly made the calculation , that such a disk ( zone of 600 ) is in volume or weight 1'45 times that of a sphere the sectional area of which is equal to the transverse sectional area of the disk .
Could such a disk , fired from a gun of similar transverse section , be projected with sufficient cycloidal rotation to maintain it in one plane , assuming it fired in a vertical plane , the conditions appear favourable to dynamical effect at any elevation .
I find , however , that when concentric and homogeneous , a disk so fired from such a gun strikes a target , not in the vertical position as fired , but in any position , such as broadside on ; and that it is necessary for the desired effect that the centre of the gravity of the disk should be slightly out of its geometrical centre , though not out of the equatorial plane , and placed in a certain position in the gun .
I do not propose to employ eccentricity exactly as it has been employed in spheres , that is , to seek to gain range by the eccentricity as such , but chiefly to employ merely enough of it to secure due rotation , so as to make a disk , otherwise useless but at close quarters , a virtually elongated projectile , and dependent further for its effect on the more legitimate and substantial conditions of easily suppressed windage , rotation in aid and not at the expense of translation , facile displacement in the gun , and several other qualities , some of which are absent with spherical projectiles , and others incompatible with the rifle principle .
In the work entitled " Shells and Shell-guns* , " by Commander Dahlgren , of the United States Navy , the history of the eccentric principle applied to spheres is treated at length , and by him traced back to the time of Robins , or for about 100 years ; here , however , a further allusion would occupy too much space , though the history is an interesting one .
In the fourth edition especially ( or that preceding the last ) of 'Naval Gunnery , ' Sir Howard Douglas has given a more minute account than has Dahlgren of the experiments in England on this subject in 1850 , 1851 , and 1852 , which were instituted at the suggestion of Sir Howard Douglas .
It is stated by him that it was by the experiments of General Paixhans at Metz , in 1841 and 1842 , the fact was first established that the deviations of eccentric spherical projectiles could be made to occur at will , either in a lateral or longitudinal direction , -laterally , by placing the shot with its centre of gravity to either side of the geometrical centre , to which side the deviation then occurred , and longitudinally , by placing the centre of gravity above or below ; in the former position the range was increased , and when " 6 below , " the range was diminished relatively to the range of a concentric sphere of like dimensions , and of a weight approximately equal , but not necessarily exactly so .
In these latter positions ( i. e. in a vertical plane ) there was found by General Paixhans to be also a relatively reduced amount of lateral deviation in comparison with that of common spherical projectiles ; in shot the difference was as 8 compared to 13 , and in shells as 2 to 16* .
In the English experiments , however , of 1850 , 1851 , and 1852 it does not appear , from the published results , that lateral deviation was thus reduced , excepting at some or the longest ranges t. Of these the greatest was with a 68-pounder of 95 cwt .
, charge 12 lbs. , elevation 24 ?
, the shot being hollow and eccentric ( but its weight and mode of eccentricity not mentioned ) ; this shot ranged to 6500 yardsl , while the greatest range at the Deal experiments of A.D. 1839 with a 56-pounder gun and solid shot , 16 lbs. charge instead of 12 lbs. , and 32 ?
elevation instead of 24 ?
only , was 5720 yards ? .
The conclusions arrived at in England , France , and America from the results of experiment with eccentric spherical projectiles appear to be very similar , as regards the general inutility of the eccentric principle for any but certain exceptional occasions in warfare , such as the bombardment of a distant but very extended area .
It has , however , been used in spherical projectiles in the Prussian field artillery 1| ; and Dahlgren states that when the centre of gravity , of a shell that has no more eccentricity than about -1of its weight added about the interior of the fuse-hole , is placed in the axis of the bore ?
, or rather parallel thereto as regards the geometrical centre , the lateral deviations are nearly annulled** , and the longitudinal variations are much less than those of an ordinary shell not made purposely eccentric .
He states that , concentricity* being unattainable in shells , it is needless to inquire whether that or eccentricity is to be preferred , the real question being how best to deal with the eccentricity of all shells .
Of solid shot , Sir Howard Douglas remarks that not more than one out of a hundred , when floated in mercury , remained indifferent to the position in which they were placed in the mercury ; while it was made manifest , by the experiment with eccentricity , that that quality was of all others by far the most fertile cause of deviation .
I now proceed to my own experiments t. My first idea ( in 1854 ) was to employ , with the least amount of eccentricity sufficient to Fig. 3 .
Actual size of bore and transverse section of spherical shot Fig. 4 .
( allowing for windage ) .
So Side-view of spheroid .
a , Plug of wood .
b b , Plane surfaces .
effect cycloidal rotation , a form of projectile and section of bore of gun of very little oblateness .
I procured two model mortars ; one was bored at first to an ellipticity differing but little from a circle , not , however , a true ellipse , but two semicircular arcs , on centres a little separated , connected by straight lines at the periphery ; and corresponding projectiles were made similarly differing from the true form generated by an ellipse about its minor axis .
The difference , however , between the long and short axis of the figure of the shot was insufficient to obviate its getting crosswise in the bore , by means of the necessary windage to allow of free rolling in the bore .
The mortar was then re-bored to its present dimensions , by the kind aid , in lending instruments , of Mr. George Hoffman of Margate .
Fig. 3 represents a section of the bore in its present state .
On this very small scale nothing , however ; of any consequence could be ascertained in either force or accuracy , though a singular result appeared as to effect of relative position of centre of gravity ; for in both models the longest ranges were afforded by a position of the centre of gravity which was the reverse of that giving the longest ranges in large guns .
Ranges .
Large guns .
Models .
Longest ... ... ... . .
Above ... ... ... Below .
Second ... ... ... ... Behind ... ... ... Behind .
Third In front ... ... ... In front .
Shortest ... ... ... .
Below ... ... ... Above .
The reason seems to me , as regards the models , to be , that the powder has more time for complete ignition in such very short tubes when the shot is in stable equilibrium than when in the reverse position .
The mortars were used as guns at low angles .
Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 .
Side-view of disk of 5 ozs .
Section of Fig. 7 .
Actual size .
disk .
Sphere of oI adapted one of them to project disks ( figs. 5 , 6 ) which were of about the same weight ( 5 ounces ) as the spheres ( fig. 7 ) for the other mortar .
1862 .
] 21 I also made the mortars of the same length , namely small .
They were fired from a moveable wooden platform , but each from the same bed or block of wood , which slid in a groove in the platform ; the bed admitted of their being fired at the horizontal and at low elevations .
Recoil could be marked ; the usual charge was 3 drachms of fine canister powder ; the disk caused more recoil than the spherical shot , as in the former windage could be more effectually suppressed , Centre of gravity below in both gave more recoil than centre of gravity above .
The eccentric disks and spheres were usually fired with centre of gravity below .
The disk ranged to first graze about - , and at the extreme range about -3 further than the range of the eccentric spheres ; that is , as 4 to 3 to first graze , and at the extreme range ( after grazing ) as about 8 to 5 .
But there can be little doubt , from the light thrown on this point by my later experiments , that no sufficient rotation of a cycloidal kind could have been imparted to the disks from the mortar , the centre of gravity being below , but only from their striking the sand , as if the disk were bowled from the hand ; the disks ricochetted to between 600 and 700 yards up to 30 elevation , above which angle there was no good ricochet .
The mortars were about 10 or 12 inches above the level of the sand .
When a disk touched a rough place , though much oscillation was set up ( as known by the noise it produced ) , this lasted only to the next one or two grazes ; for at the end of the range , where the disk rolled before stopping , and the sand happened to be soft and dry , the track was continuous like that of a wheel , and in a line that was very straight .
Some experiments with these mortars and disks were shown by me at Shoeburyness in 1855 ; but the ground there consists of mud with pools , and is not level enough for so small an apparatus .
After a few comparative trials of the two mortars , the cheeks blew out from the disk mortar .
In 1859 I was afforded an opportunity of resuming the subject ; but still , necessarily , with a model only ; instead , however , of a length of 3 calibres only , as in the mortars , I had a disk-gun made of between 10 and 11 calibres , or about howitzer proportion ; and instead of , as previously , a weight of disk of 5 ounces , the weight was about 8 ounces .
Length of bore of gun 20 inches , long diameter of [ March 13 , 2 bore 1-inch , and of disk nearly the same , and transverse diameter inch ( see figs. 1 , 2 ) .
Thus the disk was virtually a slice from a sphere , and across a zone of about 48 ?
or 49 ? .
Its long diameter was about 2-1times the short diameter .
The gun was first bored to a cylinder , and the bore was then reduced to the proper shape by the insertion of two cheek pieces .
I had difficulty in securing the cheeks of the gun , and found , after two failures with side-bolt Fir .
8.-Perspective view of cheeks .
fastenings , that it was requisite to secure the cheeks ___ : _ _-__-_ in the line of their length by attaching them to the The crosses show places for side-bolts to keep head of a bolt ( like the cheeks close to sides of cylindrical bore .
prongs of a tuning-fork to its handle ) , which passed through the breech end of the gun in the line of its axis , and was secured on the outside on its projecting screw end by a nut ( see fig. 8 ) .
The gun was made so that the longer axis of the bore was , throughout the gun , perpendicular to the common axis of the trunnions .
The gun weighed about 130 lbs. It was simply a cylindrical block with trunnions ; I had , in it , to learn how to effectually secure the cheeks , and therefore had the gun made of a thickness otherwise unnecessary .
The first disks made were cast with the mould in a horizontal position ; and several such disks were fired ; but scarcely one of them had the centre of gravity in the equatorial plane ; and I found that a disk that would not roll tolerably straight ( as on a level table ) , had corresponding lateral deviation in the air when fired .
Other disks were then cast with the mould in a vertical position , and these were much more symmetrical in respect of the sides .
The eccentricity was given at first by a hole through the disk , plugged with gutta percha , or with an alloy of lead and tin ; experience , however , showed that plugs of any kind , though riveted , were often blown out , and could only be secured by being screwed in ; and eventually I found no way better than to employ symmetrical shallow cavities* unfilled , on each side of the disk , at about half the radius from the centre .
The least amount of metal abstracted , which I found would effect rotation , was }-1 only of the disk 's weight , and was removed from the sharp edge at the sides of the zone by filing at four points .
Rotation was effected also in a homogeneous disk , and without any cavity , by making it slightly oval in periphery-in fact , as if it were a middle slice from a very slightly ovoid or egg-shaped body , instead of from a spherical one , the larger end or heaviest part being put uppermost in the bore .
Excepting one other form , better described presently , these were all the forms I experimented with .
The gun being too small to effectually destroy a sabot , I commonly used a horse-shoe electro-magnet sliding in one end of a flat wooden rod of similar section to the bore of gun , with which to place the shot in any desired position .
Having previously marked , by a spot of chalk , the face of the shot to be seen in front when in its place , I placed the shot as desired in the bore , and then by throwing in light with a mirror , I saw that the position was that wanted .
Sometimes , if the shot turned in entering , it could not be again withdrawn but by firing ; and thus such cases conveyed no meaning , unless the spot of chalk was not altogether out of sight , in which case the position and result were recorded .
In September 1859 , by the kind permission of Captain Jerningham , R.N. , in command , the gun was placed on board the 'Cambridge , ' the gunnery ship at Devonport .
The first experiment was to ascertain the ranges due to centre of gravity above and below ; and this would also show whether rotation occurred in one or the other position , or in both .
Four disks were selected of within a few grains ' weight of one another , average weight 7 } ounces ; three of the disks were to illustrate respectively concentricity , and the two opposite positions of centre of gravity " above " and " below .
" The charge was 1 } ounce , and the elevation 5 ?
in each case ; the powder was that known as " Lawrence 's No. 4 , largegrain , " and is a powder of great strength .
The concentric disk dropped at 550 yards ; the eccentric with centre of gravity " below , " at 500 yards ; the eccentric with centre of gravity " above , " at 1000 yards .
The two first-named disks made much noise in passing through the air ; the long-ranging disk , fired with centre of gravity above , made but little such noise .
The other eccentric disk was then fired with 2 ounces instead of the 24 1 I-ounce charge , and at 10 ?
instead of 5 ?
, the centre of gravity being above as before .
This shot was neither seen to drop in the water nor heard to make much noise .
There was about 2000 yards of water then in the creek ; and as the water was smooth , and many practised eyes were looking out , it was thought likely to have passed all the water and fallen on the mud .
This view was much confirmed by three similar eccentric disks being similarly fired a few days after , i. e. with 2 ounces of powder and 10 ?
elevation , and centre of gravity above .
On this occasion Capt. Jerningham kindly sent out a boat near the 1500-yard range , and men were stationed about the ship to observe .
The water was smooth , and , as before , there was about 2000 yards of it in the creek .
Not one , however , of these three disks was seen to drop by any one , nor were they heard from the boat , so that there could be little doubt that rotation was established .
A fourth eccentric disk was entered , but stuck in the bore , and was pushed down in a position unknown .
This was also fired at 10 ?
, and with the same charge as the preceding , and it was seen to drop at about 1000 yards , and was believed to have had no regular rotation .
On Oct. 5th , 1859 , the gun being on the lower deck , about 1 feet above the water , two eccentric disks were fired with centre of gravity above , the gun being laid horizontally , or what is called point-blank ; charge as before , 2 ounces .
The first graze of both of these shot was between 600 and 700 yards ; and there could be no doubt of the range being due chiefly to velocity , and not to vertical deviation , the graze of the shot succeeding so immediately the discharge from the height of the gun from the water having been about 11 feet , and the gun horizontal .
The range , if not due to vertical deviation , must have been due to a velocity of more than 2000 feet per second .
In these early experiments with the model disk-gun , I had not the advantage ( as at present ) of having previously fired at timber , so as to have learned unmistakeably the effect on the position ( as in striking in a vertical or oblique plane ) of different amounts of lateral ( or undesired ) eccentricity ; also I knew nothing of the injurious effect of sabots on the shot 's rotation when the sabots were too substantial ; consequently the majority of these earlier experiments were most uncertain , and could not be repeated at will .
I have , however , since , by firing at timber , learned the conditions which secure certain results ; and these I will briefly state .
Excepting when the centre of gravity is " above , " or within a few degrees of 1862 .
] 25 such position , a disk strikes a target not in a vertical plane as fired ; but when the centre of gravity is " above , " when the disk is free to roll and not merely slide in the bore , when the sabot , if any , is very light and destructible , as of carl , when there is a sufficient charge of powder , and the disk is tolerably symmetrical laterally , and sufficiently eccentric longitudinally ( but which eccentricity need not be an amount that causes a dip of more than 1 ?
when the disk is floated in mercury ) , then the disk , if fired in a vertical plane , is certain to strike a target in that position up to the distances at which I have yet had the opportunity of trying it ; and though such distance ( from the land experiments here having been of necessity in a quarry * ) has been only from twenty to thirty yards , yet , as in the other positions of the centre of gravity the disk turns over irregularly within such distance , it may be assumed that a rotation in a vertical plane is set up in the one position referred to , viz. " above , " and in no other position of the centre of gravity .
To this conclusion all these experiments appear to tend .
It may by some be questioned whether this rotation is as a wheel , or the reverse way , by the advancement of the lower part of the shot .
These experiments do not appear to support the conclusions of M. Magnust ( which have been so very widely adopted , as by Sir Howard Douglas in his fourth and subsequent edition ) , viz. that rotation occurs in both positions of " above " and " below , " but in the latter only is as a wheel ; while previously , and as expressed in his third edition , Sir I. Douglas entertained the opinion that the rotation was in that direction , or by the advancement of the upper hemisphere , when the centre of gravity was above .
It is probable that rotation in a disk , in either direction , would keep its plane vertical when the projection had been in a vertical plane ; so that if it strikes upright only when fired with the centre of gravity in one position ( as when " above " ) , it seems a fair conclusion that with the other positions of the centre of gravity there can be no rotation imparted .
This I had reason to suspect , as regards the position of the centre of gravity " below , " long before I had an opportunity of proving it with the disk-gun ; for in 1854 , the model-mortar experiments referred to appeared to indicate that such was probably the case , by demonstrating that not only were the vertical deviations from such models the reverse of those in large guns , while the lateral deviations were the same , but that it followed from this there must be a length and calibre from which , while the lateral deviations still remained constant , the range would be the same whether the centre of gravity of an eccentric sphere were put " above " or " below .
" What , then , becomes of the theory that the lateral and vertical deviations are due to the same proximate cause , i. e. eccentric rotation through the air , and that it is by the air , as assumed by M. Magnus , that both these deviations occur ?
The later disk experiments , i. e. from the gun , show that in three out of the four positions of the centre of gravity in one plane ( a vertical plane ) there is no decided rotation in such plane , or indeed regular rotation in any plane ; yet these three positions in spheres all give different ranges .
Do these spheres rotate ?
or can they in such case rotate in a vertical plane with velocity enough to cause a vertical deviation , assuming that the mean length of a range admits of being increased in this manner , in opposition to gravitation ?
Perhaps the approximate causes may be looked for ( of the two kinds of deviation ) , the one more within , and the other chiefly outside the gun .
As regards the longer ranges due to centre of gravity " above , " may not such increase be due to the fact of the nearer coincidence of that important point with the axis of the bore ?
In fact , may not the vertical variations in range be chiefly due to causes of a more directly dynamical nature than has been generally thought ?
while , respecting the lateral , M. Magnus 's views , founded on his experiments with rotating bodies , appear not only incontrovertible of themselves , but the identity of such deviations in models with those of large guns offers no new fact on which exception could be taken or any new question raised , which cannot be said of longitudinal deviations .
To find whether a disk prevented from rotating in the bore , but still delivered at the muzzle with centre of gravity " above , " would rotate in , and in such case by , the air , I made two disks ( with a straight edge above and below ) , the disks being very eccentric by a transverse hole through the lower part .
They both struck irregularly in any position , as seen by the wood of the target , which shows also the form of the disks .
1862 .
] 27 I found that a homogeneous solid disk , formed slightly oval below , would strike as fired ( in a vertical plane ) when the centre of gravity was " above .
" There are three ways in which , as I have found , disks may pass through the air ( as seen by the target , and shown in figs. 9 , 10 , 11 ) .
1st .
Concentricity , or BcFig .
9 .
centricity , but with centre of gravity not " above , " causes a disk to strike in any irregular , position ( fig. 9 ) .
2ndly .
When the centre of X\ gravity is " above , " but there is something within the bore to hamper but not arrest the rotation of the disk in the bore , such as too thick a sabot , or great fouling and insufficient windFig .
10 .
age , the disk strikes with the edge , but not upright as fired ( fig. 10 ) .
3rdly .
Centre of gravity\\ !
i i " above , " with the attending m , \\\ conditions which have been .
before mentioned , gives a resuit as previously described and shown in fig. 11 .
Fig. 11 .
The difficulty of destroying " sabots " is much greater in 4 " models than large guns .
The penetration of disks when striking with the edge is great ; A with a 2-oz .
charge , at twenty , , five yards , the penetration has commonly been through three 4-inch planks of elm ; and with half an ounce more powder and a wrought-iron disk , through three 6-inch beams of elm , the latter with the grain of the plank parallel to the plane of the disk , the former with it usually transverse .
The difference of direction in grain of wood causes in such experiments about 2 inches difference in penetration .
28 [ March 13 , I beg , finally , to sum up briefly the conclusions which appear to me to be deducible from these experiments .
1st .
That the experiments with the model mortar , by giving the longest range and the shortest that are due to certain positions of the centre of gravity in a vertical plane in positions the reverse of those obtaining in large guns , while the other positions remain the same , as to their effect on the range , as in large guns , appear to render admissible the view that the causes of lateral and vertical deviations , which have hitherto mostly been assumed to be similar , may not be so .
2ndly .
That from the above experimenet it also results that there must be a length and calibre in which the range will be the same , whether the centre of gravity of an eccentric spherical projectile be placed above or below , while in the same gun all the other deviations due to the other positions will be similar to those obtaining in both large guns and small models .
3rdly .
It appears ( at least with the dimensions of gun and projectile here experimented with ) that there is no decided rotation in any of the four positions in a vertical plane , excepting that of centre of gravity " above " the geometrical centre ; and it may perhaps be fairly assumed that in the positions in which disks do not rotate , spheres ( at all events , of like dimensions ) cannot .
4thly .
That if the results of these experiments with the model disk-gun may be viewed as indicative of similar results from large guns , then the above-mentioned phenomenon of rotation in one position only renders doubtful the previous conclusions on the direction of rotation , which have been based on a view of the rotation not being thus limited to one position .
5thly .
It appears that to rotate outside the gun , it is requisite that the disk ( and probably sphere also ) must be free to rotate " within it .
6thly .
That rotation may be imparted sufficient to be permanent on one axis , but not in one plane-a matter of no consequence at close quarters ; while , by certain means , rotation may approximately be secured in one plane when the projection has been in a vertical plane ; this has been seen at least up to thirty yards at a target , and longer distances not yet tried at a target ; but much within the above distance the other phenomena are seen to occur ; and it may be assumed that if a disk will keep upright through several inches 1862 .
] 29 of solid timber , it will also keep upright through the air , except in much wind , against the effect of which , however , the disk may probably be preserved by inclining the axis of the gun .
7thly and lastly .
The before-mentioned results show that a diskgun may in certain respects be viewed as a common gun , and in other respects as a gun for throwing an elongated projectile .
The former characteristics , as of circular periphery in line of motion , ensure high initial velocity and small strain on the gun ; and the latter , or virtual elongation , ensures the preservation of such velocity ; for it is seen that the requirement of the tangent to the trajectory , so desirable respecting the proper axis of rotation of a rifle projectile , does not obtain in the disk ; and it is also seen that while the rifle projectile can strike effectively but in the prolongation of one of its axes , and that becomes impracticable as elevation increases , the disk has no such limitation , and is not dependent on any one angle of elevation for preserving inviolate the conditions for which elongation is given to any projectile* .

