I. " History of two Cases of Hernia of the Ovaries , in one of which there was a periodical Enlargement of one or other of these Organs .
" By HENRY OLDHlAM , M.D. , Member of the Royal College of Physicians , and Obstetric Physician to Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by ARTHUR FAR , M.D. , P.R.S. Received January 10 , 1857 .
The two cases which I beg to present to the Royal Society , are examples of a rare conformation of the female sexual organs , in which the two ovaria have descended through the inguinal canals and have become permanently lodged in the upper part of the external labia ; and in both of them the most careful and repeated physical examination has failed to detect either uterus or vagina .
I should hardly , however , have ventured to bring them before the Society simply as examples of faulty conformation-because , although rare , yet they have been observed *had not the first of the two cases presented the interesting physiological peculiarity of a spontaneous periodical increase of one or other of the ovaria , followed by its gradual reduction , thus supplying direct evidence of an ovarian menstrual act .
The subject of the first case applied to me in September 1851 for advice on account of never having menstruated .
She was nineteen years of age , of a tall figure , symmetrical frame , well-expanded pelvis , and womanly aspect , bearing all the marks of a full completion of the physical changes of puberty ; and her general health , though not robust , was fairly good .
She was one of a family of five children , and her sisters had menstruated between fifteen and sixteen years of age .
The principal point which was elicited from her history in connexion with her complaint was , that , eighteen months before , a swelling had somewhat suddenly appeared on the right side of the external organs , which had caused her some pain for a few days , and had then disappeared .
In four or five months a similar swelling again appeared , but was attended with so much suffering that a medical man was consulted , who took it for an abscess and ordered it to be poulticed .
Again it passed away , again to recur at the end of two months ; and so it had gone on at irregular intervals until the time of her seeing me , when the pain of a renewed attack of unusual severity had occasioned her some alarm .
On examination , a swelling the size of a goose-egg was found to extend between the external abdominal ring and the centre of the labium on the right side , which was very tense and firm to the touch ; and the cellular tissue , skin , and mucous membrane of the labium were oedematous and inflamed .
It was painful , but by no means so painful as a labial abscess , which in its general aspect it resembled ; and there was but little febrile disturbance .
A more critical examination detected the presence of a solid body of an oval shape within the tissue of the labium , which proved to be the ovarium , whose enlargement had so compressed the surrounding tissues as to swell and inflame them .
On the opposite side there was another oval body , the size of a walnut , which passed just beyond the outer ring , but readily slipped into the canal .
This was the left ovary in a quiescent state .
The external sexual parts were normally formed ; but the ostium vagina was closed , a slight indentation in the median line alone marking its position .
Frequent careful physical examinations failed to detect any trace of a vagina or uterus , and the conclusion arrived at was that these central pelvic organs had not been developed .
The mammary glands were fully formed .
I have had repeated opportunities during the six years which have intervened since first the case came before me , of examining the organs both during the periods of ovarian excitement and during the intervals .
For nearly two years , however , I completely lost sight of her , when I learned to my amazement , that , in spite of my strong admonition both to her mother and herself that she should lead a single life , she had married .
For some time past I have seen her more fre_ quently , and have watched the recurrence of the ovarian swellings .
For the first three years the right ovarium was exclusively enlarged , and the intervals were not so regularly marked , varying between three and six weeks ; excepting for the first year , when they were much longer , occasionally extending to three months .
For the last two years the left ovarium has been far more frequently affected , the right remaining quiescent ; occasionally both are painful and tumid , but even then one more than the other .
The intervals are now pretty regularly three weeks .
The acute inflammatory symptoms which accompanied the onset of these swellings have long since ceased to recur , which is obviously due to the loose state of the tissues from repeated stretching , so that the swollen organ is no longer compressed .
The accession of a menstrual time is sometimes suddenly felt .
She will go to bed well , and in the morning the ovary will be swollen : more commonly , however , it is very gradual , augmenting in volume for four days , then remaining stationary for three days , and then gradually declining ; the whole process , before the ovary is reduced , generally lasting ten or twelve days .
On separating the ovary , when at its height of swelling , from the tissues surrounding it , it appears scarcely , if at all , less than double its usual volume ; its outline is clearly defined , and it is plain that the whole , and not merely a part , of the organ is involved .
There is no suffering worthy of notice during the time : the swelling is tender if pressed ; and tender , too , in the act of sitting down or rising up ; but she walks about as usual without distress , and there is but little lumbar or hypogastric pain .
Neither are there any manifest sympathies excited , either of the mammary glands or other organs .
Nor is there any vicarious flux , either of blood or any secretion , with the exception of an excess of saliva , but this not in any large flow .
The ovary alone appeared to be engaged in this periodical act , which it is not too much to suppose , in accordance with modern physiological views , would have been attended with a flux of blood , had not the organs which normally supply it been absent .
But while this may be said to represent the usual course of a period , yet the volume of the ovary , and the length of time it remains swollen , is subject to occasional variation ; sometimes being much less tumid , and dying away in a shorter time .
The repeated attempts at sexual union have only had the effect of somewhat loosening the tissues around the vulva , but the vagina remains imperforate as before , and is beyond the reach of surgical remedy .
It may be added , that the subject of this history recognizes an increase of sexual feeling at and soon after the periods of enlargement of the ovary .
The second case was that of a young woman who had attained the age of twenty without having menstruated .
She was a tall , strumouslooking person , in weak health .
There had not been any wellmarked efforts at menstruation , but she had suffered slightly from lumbar pain .
The mammae were well developed .
The pelvis was fairly formed .
On examination I found the two ovaria just appearing beyond the external abdominal rings , and readily returning by pressure into their respective inguinal canals .
They were of equal size and similar shape , being ovoid bodies about the size of small chestnuts .
They were not tender when touched , although organically sensitive , and she had never experienced pain in them .
The external sexual organs were somewhat less perfectly developed than usual ; the vaginal orifice was closed , and no trace of a canal or uterus could be detected by exploration with a catheter in the bladder and the finger in the rectum .
These organs , as in the former case , were absent .
During the time I saw the patient , which was only for two months , the ovaria did not enlarge , although her general health improved .

