On the Spectra of Comet a 1890 and the Nebula G.C. 4058 .
217 ths broadest , but they are all broad , though even in this photograph they are not seen with the distinctness which is necessary for ascertaining accurately their relative character .
The sixth line occurs where the spectrum is faint , almost at the limit of this photograph , which was taken when Sirius was some distance past the meridian , and we are not able to find out whether this line completes the group , or whether there may not be other lines still more refrangible belonging to it .
We expect to be able to determine this point , namely , whether the group ends with the sixth line , when the opportunity comes round of being able to photograph the star when it is near the meridian .
The new group of six lines is well seen when the photograph is examined with a lens , but when the plate is placed under the measuring microscope it is only with some difficulty that the lines can be observed with the distinctness which is necessary for measuring them with a fair approach to accuracy .
For this reason , the wave-lengths given below must be regarded as ; only preliminary , and hut roughly approximate measures of the-positions of the new lines .
1st Line X 3338 2nd X 3311 3rd " ... ... ... ... .
X , 3278 J-VXX , , ... ... .
5th , , X 3226 6th , , X 3199 " 0n the Spectra of Comet a 1890 and the Nebula G.C. 4058 .
" By J. Norman Lookyer , F.R.S. Received and Read June 12 , 1890 .
Tne comet discovered by Mr. Brooks on the 19th of March ( a , 1890 ) has recently been observed at Kensington with the view of testing the sequence of spectra which resulted from my discussion of all the spectroscopic observations of comets which had been made up to the end of 1888.* The orbit , however , is such that the comet has only passed through a small range of temperature , and no changes have even observed in its spectrum beyond the gradually increasing .
^an^y of the carbon bands relatively to the continuous spectrum .
s pointed out in the paper referred to , the citron band should be BJ08t varaable , for the reason that the brightest flutings in the spectra ca mfn^aTlese aTl(^ lea(3 fall near it ; but , although this band has been re 11 y observed on every occasion , it has retained the same wave* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 45 , p. 189 .
V()L- XLVIII .
218 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On Spectra of length , and was found by direct comparisons to be coincident with the carbon band near X564 .
From this point of view , therefore , the observations have not supplied us with any new facts , and , as the comet is calculated to have passed perihelion on June 3 , it is not likely that any phenomena will be seen beyond the usual diminution in brightness of the carbon flutings .
The observations which have been made , however , showed such a striking similarity between the spectrum of the comet and that of the Nebula in Andromeda that advantage was taken of its presence to compare its spectrum with that of an adjacent nebula , G. C. 4058 ( R. A. 15 h. 3 m. 24 s. , Decl. + 56 ' 11 ' ) , which closely resembles the Andromeda Nebula .
In my paper of January , 1889 ( p. 216 ) , I referred to some observations of the spectrum of the Nebula in Andromeda which were suggested by the discussion of cometary spectra .
These observations showed that the spectrum of the Nebula was really a cometary one ; that is to say , that it consisted of the chief bands of carbon , with a slight modification of the citron band .
This result was first obtained by Mr. Fowler in November , 1888 , and was subsequently confirmed by Mr. Taylor .
The bright bands are superposed on a continuous spectrum which is not much fainter , and they had consequently escaped observation until specially looked for .
The other nebula with which a comparison has been made is comparatively near to the comet , and , as its spectrum strongly resembles that of the Nebula in Andromeda , it affords a good opportunity for observing the similarity .
The following extracts from the Observatory note-book will show how close the resemblance is , and I communicate this note to the Society in order that anyone possessing a telescope with an aperture of 10 inches or more may see for himself while the comet is with us that we are dealing with the radiation of carbon vapour in one case as well as in the other : \#151 ; May 21.\#151 ; The comet was something like the Nebula in Andromeda in general appearance , with the exception of the elongation .
It was whitish and round , but brightened in the middle to an ill-defined nucleus .
No further structure could be seen .
With the direct-vision spectroscope , a moderately bright continuous spectrum was visible , with bright flutings superposed .
The flutings extended from the nucleus to the boundaries of the comet , but they were very faint , except in the nucleus itself , and there they were not very clearly defined on account of the continuous spectrum .
Made several direct comparisons with the blue base of a spirit-lamp flame by means of the microscopic glass reflector in front of the slit .
The three flutings in the spectrum of the comet were quite coincident with those in the flame .
The fluting near A 517 was much brighter than the other two , Comet ci 1890 and the Nebula , Gr .
C\#187 ; 4058 .
and the blue Band was brighter than the citron .
The latter was the most difficult to measure .
The hydrocarbon band near X 431 was not visible .
The continuous spectrum extended from about D to a little beyond X 474 .
May 22.\#151 ; Nucleus of comet not nearly so central as last night .
Formation of tail apparently commencing .
No very obvious change in the spectrum .
The fluting at 517 was possibly a little brighter , but there was no change in the citron fluting .
The flutings still extended over the whole comet .
Still a fair amount of continuous spectrum , to a large extent masking the carbon flutings .
May 23.\#151 ; Form and spectrum of comet not distinguishable from last night .
The nucleus is possibly still less central .
May 27.\#151 ; The appearance and spectrum of the comet were precisely the same as on May 23 .
It seemed a little fainter , but this was probably due to moonlight and a slight haze .
June 6.\#151 ; The comet was much brighter than on previous occasions .
The tail was longer and was turned from the Sun .
There was less \#166 ; continuous spectrum than before , so that the bright flutings were more distinct , and a narrower slit could be used for comparisons .
The coincidences with the carbon flutings were still quite perfect with the dispersion employed .
There was no shift in the citron band .
June 9.\#151 ; The comet did not appear any fainter , notwithstanding the published ephemeris .
There was still less continuous spectrum than on June 6 .
The 517 fluting now very clearly seen .
No change in the positions of the bands .
6- C. 4058.\#151 ; This is a white nebula in Draco , apparently somewhat similar to the Andromeda Nebula .
The spectrum , according to Dr. Huggins , is continuous .
The observations showed the spectrum to be irregularly continuous , and remarkably similar in appearance to the spectrum of Comet Brooks .
The brightest part was found by direct comparison to be coincident with the carbon fluting X 517 .
No definite measures were made of any other brightnesses , but 517 is certainly present , and is not much less distinct than in the spectrum of the comet .
The fluting appeared relatively a little brighter than in the Andromeda Nebula .
The length of continuous spectrum was about equal to that of the comet .
All the observations were made with the 10-inch refractor by Mr. Fowler .
The similarity of the spectra of the comet and the nebula on June 9 was confirmed by Mr. Baxandall .
The observations emphasise what I pointed out to the Society two years ago , namely , that the spectra of nebulse and comets are similar oth at aphelion and during the approach to perihelion .
The facts eing so , we are justified in considering , therefore , that nebulae which present to us a carbon spectrum are more condensed than those which 220 Mr. E. H. Griffiths .
Determination of Boiling [ June 1^ show the line at \ 500 first observed in a comet by Dr. Huggins in the year 1866 .
It remains for those who hold that the physical structure and temperature of comets and nebulas are not similar in each case to explain the phenomena observed in a more simple and sufficient way .
June 19 , 1890 .
Mr. JOHN " EVANS , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Treasurer , in the Chair .
The Rev. J. Kerr , Prof. W. H. Perkin , jun .
, Mr. D. Sharp , and Mr. W. F. R. Weldon were admitted into the Society .
** The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Determination of some Boiling and Freezing Points by means of the Platinum Thermometer .
" By E. H. Griffiths , M.A. , Sidney Sussex College , Cambridge .
Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received May 27 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an account of experiments made with a view of\#151 ; ( I. ) Comparing the closeness of agreement between the readings of platinum thermometers made from different samples of wire arranged in different manners and insulated by different materials .
( II .
) Ascertaining some accurate method of graduating such ther-mometers without the direct use of the air thermometer .
( III .
) The determination of certain boiling and freezing points .
Eight thermometers were constructed .
The resistance of the platinum coils used varied from about 4 to 50 ohms .
Full particulars of these thermometers are given in the paper .
The insulating substance in thermometers A , B , C , D was glass only ; but the internal arrangements were different , as also were the samples of platinum wire used in their construction .
The form finally adopted ( that of E , F , G ) was as follows:\#151 ; A coil of fine platinum wire was wound on a roll of asbestos paper and slipped into a thin hard-glass tube .
Thick platinum wires ran from

