]\gt ; On the Nature of Muscular Contraction .
rktt ( H. C. ) Burdett 's Official Intelligence for 1895 .
Lmdon .
The Author .
gerald ( R. D. ) Australian Orchids .
Vol. II .
Part V. Folio .
Sydney 1894 .
Government Printing Office , Sydney .
Foederick the Great .
Politische Correspondenz .
Bd .
XXI .
Berhn 1894 .
K. Akademie der Wissenschaften , Berlin .
Kendrick ( J. F.R.S. To What End Remarks on the Phenomena of Life . .
Glasgow 1895 .
The Author .
Ormerod ( E. A. ) Report of Observations of Injurious Insects and Common Farm Pests during the Year 1894 . .
London 1895 .
The Authoress .
Suess ( E. ) , For .
Mem. R.S. Einige Bemerkungen uber den Mond . .
Wien 1895 .
The Auttlor . .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents eceived was laid on the table , and thanks ordsred for them .
The Croonian Lecture was delivered as follows:\mdash ; CROONIAN LECTURE On the Nature of Muscular Contraction By TH .
W. ENGHiLNIANN , .
of in the University of Utrecht .
Received February 25 , 1895 .
I beg your kind attention for a few moments to some observations and considerations on the nature of muscular contraction .
Besides its geueral biological interest , the subject may claim a particular interest for the members of this Society , for the venerable institution of these Croonian Lectures is especially devoted to the furtherance of the tudy of muscnlar life , and , moreover , the Royal Society has , through Fellows , from Robel:t Hooke down to our friend Professor Schafer , Prodnced numerous researches on muscular structure and action which may be said to belong to the most valuable part of our scientific property .
It will not be my task to recall Do your mind all those eminent Nellows of this Society who have helped us to get a clearer insight into this subject , yet I cannot refrain from reminding you of one of these men , who is honoured th.oughout the whole orld : 0lle of Prof. Th. W. Engelmann .
the founders of our present doctrine of muscular action\mdash ; a man whose name will li on , in my home in conntries , associated with the memory of his great brotherly , and whom , to my great grief , I may see here no mean Sir William Bowman .
But a few years ago I had the happiness of seeing him in echt , and of observing how the interest which he took in a science in which he had gained his first lanrels remained nged , even after the lapse of half a century .
To behold him among this audience would have been my greatest joy and pride , and his judgment would , in my eyes , have been invaluable .
May that which I am noy going to say be commended to you at the same time as homage paid to the memory of the discoverer of the sarcous elements and of the waves of contraction .
The subject of my lecture is an inquiry into ' The Nature of Muscular Contraction Like all vital phenomena , muscular con .
traction is a most complicated process , composed of mechamical , chemical , thermal , and electrical changes in living matter .
Hence it will be our task to become acquainted with these changes as com. pletely and exactly as possible , and to ascertain their cause con .
llection .
Onr inqniry must not be restricted to one special kind of muscle : it will have to extend to all the different forms , the highest as well as the lowest\mdash ; muscles in every stage of development , musdes either sound or unsound , \mdash ; for there be no doubt but that in these cases the principle of activityis the same .
Nay , it will be to deal even with the other phenomena of so-called contractility , such as protoplasmic and ciliary motion , for all those different types of anic movemen , however much they may differ from each other in details , are yet connected by states of gradual transition , so that , to all appearance , one principle of motion , essentially the same , is applicable to all of them .
Only such properties and processes as all contractile struoturu have in common will consequently have a right to be essential to the process of contraction , and only such will be allowd to form the basis of our endeavours to explain muscular motion .
The general mechanical principle on which muscular is based , will apparently be discovered when we shall have tained in what way the power of shortening proceeds from potential chemical energy which disappears upon stimulation of muscle .
There can be no doubt as to the fact , that the chemical energy of the component parts of muscular substana il alone the ultimate source of this power , for the existence of any source cannot be proved .
The quantity of which is imparted to the muscls by * , such as , e.g. , those on the persistence of contractility after noration of the motor nerves , and on the effects of direct artificial ulation of the muscles ; and it had even been refuted long ere thi law of conservation of energy had thrown its light on the mutual xion between the phenomena of the gans .
This law teaches that all the actual energy which appears in the muscle in consequence of stimnlation , must in an equivalent quantity of some other form of Now this form of ellergy is , iu fact , given in the muscular substance liable to physiological combustion .
The quantity of the latter is not only theoretically sufficient to produce that actual energy , but it has even been proved experimentally that during contraction tlJe material gives rise to combinations , such as carbonic acid , in the development of potential chemical energy mnst have passed into er forms of energy .
So far as the phenomena have been 1amined quantitatively , they confirm the concIusion that all muscular force must be deri from chemical energy .
Hence there is no difference about all these points .
But with resnlt we have as yet gained only a basis for the proper tion .
As soon as you inquire in what way , by what transformations , does the mechanical force of contraction arise from chemical energy , difficulties and differences of opinion begin to present themselvos .
A great many physiologists hold , with Pfluger , Fick , and Chauveau , that muscnlar force is a direct manifestation of chemical attraction ; others , e.g. , Solvay , think that it is produced through the medium of ctricity ; others again , following J. R. Mayer , believe that the muscle is a thermodynamic machine , not unlike our caloric or steam engines .
The Chemiodynamic Hypothesis.\mdash ; The first hypothesis , according to which contraction of muscle is a direct manifestation of chemical rttraction\mdash ; we may call it the chemiodynamic hypothesis\mdash ; has to sum that the molecules , on the chemical combination of which this ntraction is based , are regularly arranged within the contractile tance in such a way that they necessarily approach each dunng that combination , in the direction of the axis of the mtlscular Abres .
I think that this hypothesis of the identity of chemical attraction muscular force meets with a fundamental difficulty in the fact that , in a single contraction , only a relatively infinitesimal part of the musoular substance is cbemically active .
70 to 80 per cent. of the ( and even more ) consists of imbibed water , the rest contains tances ( albnmin , salts , \amp ; c. ) which , for the greater part , so far as an be proved , are not chemically concerned in the conbraction .
energy , produced a certain contraction , must have been generaM If we prevent a muscle from doing external work during tho contraction , ) whole actual energy will present itself in the of heat .
When there is but a slight contraction , the muscle of a frog , , will grow warmer by about C. Supposing the speoiic heat of the muscle to be equal to that of water ( in fact it is b ) , we find that to produce a rise of C. in temperature a uantity of heat of .
is required for each gram of muscle .
No whether this quantity of heat results from combustion of carbohydrates , fats , or albuminous matter , it can be but an infinite esimal part of the muscular substance that produced it .
If , as is ordinarily supposed , the combustion of a carbohydrate into and produced that heat , taking the heat of combustion pf of carbohydrate to be broadly 4000 , no more than a four thousandth part of a milligram will have been consumed in gram of the muscle .
Hence only about a four milliontb part of the muscular snbstance could have be the source of the actual enough , set free by the stimuIus , and have served at the same time , according the above hypothesis , as the seat of direct attraction .
But whaliever may be our conception of the size , form , amd sphere of action of this four millionth part with regard to the of the soft , watery mass , only passively moved , I fail to undersM how , through chemical attraction , this one particle should st those other four million parts , less one , moved , as in fact it does .
We must not forget that we have to deal with enormous of form .
MuscIes of insects are sometimes shortened by contraciion to one twentieth of their length during rest .
) myopodia of Acanthocystis can be reduced to a fiftieth part of length by the action of even a weak stimuIus ; iu this extremely long , thin fibre is in a moment changed into a cylinder , about as broad as it is long .
That this can ever be brought about by direct chemical seeing that but a relatively infinitesimal part of the soft water On the Nature of Muscular Contraction .
of the fibre is the seat of this chemical attraction , seems to me to understand , even if we assume\mdash ; as I believe must do the number of the chemically active molecules is , even in the visible particle , so large that the distances which separate them from each other and from the passively moving molecules lying between them , fall within the limits in which molecular mechanical influence can be exercised .
The adherentS of the chemio-dynamic hypothesis have not as yet answered this objection .
And since they can give but an unsatisfactory account or no acconnt at all of many other facts I will refer to some of these facts further on ) , we may be allowed to cast about for some other explanation .
The Electrodynamic Eypothesis.\mdash ; Since Galvani 's discoveries the electric phenomena of the muscles ) frequently been suspected to contain the solution of our problem .
And indeed , it is not so very difficnlt to mention a series of facts which seem to bear out the suggestion that the mechanical work done by the muscle may be oated from chemical energy through the medium of electric forces .
There is , in the first place , the fact thab muscles , when in action , produce regnlar electric effects .
These effects are indeed the first phenomena we can observe after the stimulation .
They seem to at the very moment of stimulation , shortly before the contraction ; hence they might in so far be the cause of the mechanical process .
Moreover , the value of the electromotivs force , as du Bois-Reymond proved , is very high , and in the active particles is probably much higher than the force of the currents we can derive from the surface of the muscle .
Add to this that the economic coefficient of the scle may attain , just as in the case of electric motors , a considerable portion .
As much as 25 per cent. and more of the potential enel'gy which has been consumed may be transformed into mechallical work .
However , there are weighty objections to this hypothesis also .
In the first place , there is the fact that these very same electromotive forces , of equal intensity and direction , appear , under the same ences , not on in muscles , but also in nerves , glands , and other organS , which do not possess the least contractility .
Then there is the important discovery of Biedermann , that the contractility of muscles be c.ompletely neutralized by water or ether vapour , without doing any perceptible harm to the eIectromotor phenomena .
In the same way the development of the electric organs supplies us with important proofs of the independence of the electric and the mechanical processes .
In most cases these orgilns are developed out of atriped muscular fibres .
Now , in this process of development , contractility is gradually lost , whereas the power of produciug elSctrical effects attains a yet higher degree of perfection .
Prof. Th. W. The Hypothesis.\mdash ; More probable than the and the electrical hypothesis may be deemed a suggestion , put forward by Jul. Rob .
Mayer , in an untenabla according to which the muscle is a thermodynamic machine .
logists , however , generally object that this view is not compatible with the second law of the theory of heat , for we cannot differences in temperature in the muscle so great as this law they should be .
Now I think that , on the contrary , we must assume exceedingly large differences of temperature in the stimulated muscle .
What hoIds good of the whole body holds good of the muscle also ; the emperature , measured with our instruments , is but an average , " " comprising an infinite number of diflerent temperatures , pertaining to an infinite number of different points\ldquo ; ( Pfluger ) .
From the fact that at the contraction an infinitesimal part only of the muscular mass is chemically active , we infer that the temperature of these particles mnst , at the moment of combustion , be an uncommonly high one .
Greab as the specific heat of muscule substance is , it would otherwise be impossible to account for a rise the temperature of the whole mass even of C. only .
Without any exaggeration we may assume that the temperature of the chemically active particles may , at the moment of combination , exceed the average muscular temperature by hundreds of degrees .
Since each thermogenic particle is surrounded by a enormous cool mass , conducting heat and diathermanous , the prin .
cipal condition for the transformation of heat into mechanical vrork has been satisfied , and , on account of the enormous differences temperature which we have to assume , in such a high deglee , even an economic coefficient of 30 per cent. , nay , 50 per cent. , mui even more , seems to be theoretically possible .
Supposing we have to deal with a Carnot 's cycle , the theoretioal maximum of the mechanical effect is , whers9 ands for the whole quantity of heat , which the temperature is sinking down as far as , the mechanical effect might at amount per cent. , when temperature of the active particles would consequently exceed the average temperature of the normal by 10 C. only .
The objection that these high temperatures must necessrn destroy the life of the muscle , since the latter becomes rigid and even at C. , is , for the same reasons , of small value only .
it is ever an infinitesimal part only of the muscular mass il exposed to these high temperatnres .
At a small distance from furnaces of heat the temperature must have fallen so low as to Iowever likely it may thus seem that nature should avail herself ofihese favourable terms on which mechanical work may result from mmonlar heat , we have had uP to the present time no direct proof that this is actually the case , nor do we know in what way it takes place , lif im any .
But I vehture to think that the proof can now be given , linImuch as it is possible to demonstrate how , through the medium ofpeculiar arrangements of the material of the muscle , a transformaof chemical energy into mechanical work by means of heat not only can , but actually must , be brought about .
* Jfuscular Structure in relation to Contractility .
Fibrils are the Seat of the Shortening Power.\mdash ; For this we need firstly to pay attention to the peculiarities of the microscopical ffincture of muscle .
All muscular fibres of all animals are composed chiefly of two parts : extremely thin , long , albuminous fibriJs , and an inteffibrillar plasmatic substance , the so-called sarcoplasm .
The qmntitative relations of both vary , but the always occur in great number , forming very often the greatest part of the whole mass of the muscle .
They always run parallel to each other throughout the length of the fibres .
Tbis fibrillar structure is also presented by all the other formed contractile substances , such as the myonemata of Infusoria and of and the myonemata in the subcuticular layer of Vorhcella , to kinds of ciliary apparatus , and in many cases to contractilS proto .
plasm also .
This general occurrence of double-refracting power is the indicative of relations to contractility , since non-contractile a rule , lack double refraction , even where we meet with a fibffihr structure , as in the axis-cylinder of a nerve-fibre .
Our conjecture gains , I believe , a very high degree of by the following series of observations , which are the more since they relate to quite different categories of phenomena , pendent of each other .
In the first place , there is the fact that contractility and double retraction in the course of ontogenesis always appear at the same e.g. , in the heart of the chick on the second day of incubation ; in the muscles of the trunk and skin on the fifth or sixth day ; in muscles of the tails of tadpoles when the length of their body to 4 mm. ; in the mnscles of the stalk of Yorticella , and in so soon as these organs become visible .
Other evidence seems to ms to be afforded by the behaviour of the striated muscles .
Here the fibrils consist of the sarcous elements and the singly-refractive material joins the two alternating regularly .
The two are wholly differehi regards their optical , mechanical , and chemical properties ; and prop.during contraction , change ibway Hence tunctions oifferent .
since the changes of form , volume , \amp ; c. , of the refraotlW parts during contraction prove that each case these parts be the seat of contractile power , the singly-refractive most probably have anoher function .
We will come back to changes further on .
A third evidence is aiforded by the obsel'vation that the force of contraction in differsnt lscles is , in general , better developed the power of double retraction , comparison , of in each case being made with parts of the same thickness .
In the development of the pseudo-electric organs of Raja out striated muscular fibres , one of the signs of the incipient of strncture and function is the vanishing of double refraction On the Nature of Muscular Contraction .
elements .
In an early of development this vanishing is , with Raja clavata , the very the only sigll that the fibre is about to be transformed from a contractile into an organ .
* Bnt particularly significant seems to me to be the behaviou of the obliqnely striated muscles of 1olluscs and other Invertebrata .
Here the doubly refractive fibrils do nol run parallel to the axis of the fibre , but describe spiral lines round ; and during a contraction the steepness of the c , urves decreases , so that the angle formed by the longitudinal axis of the fibril and the longibudinal axis of the fibre may increase from in the relaxed state to , and even more , in a state of powerful contraction .
But the optic axis of the fibril , instead of assuming , in this case , a more oblique position also , might be expected on morphological grounds , remains parallel to the longitudinal axis of the fibre , and consequently to the direction of shortening of the fibre .
Hence it is not the axis of the flbrils , but the optical axis of their doubly refractive constituents , which coincides with the direction of the contracting force .
Contracbihty a General Property of Doubly Refrachve Bodies.\mdash ; More than a score of years ago I pointed out the fact that even non-muscular elements , elements not possessing irritability in the physiological sense of the word , nay , even lifeless , unorganised elements which are doubly refractive and uniaxial , may , under certain influences , contract the direction of the optical axis , all thickening at one time , and cont acting with a force and and to an extent rivalling that of muscles , if not surpassing it .
Instances of this are the fibrils of oonnective tissue , of the tendons , and of the cornea and others .
The same contractile power was found by von Ebner in a great many other doubly refractive histological elements , nay , even in substances oapabls of imbibition and thereby made doubly refractive , e.g. , dried colloid membranes ; and finally by Hermann in fibrils of fibrin .
I have in this way shown that singly refractive , or only feebly donbly refractive histological elements , such as fibres of elastic tissue , in the same way as caoutchouc , obtain the power , when made doubly refractive by extension , of contracting under certain influences , and further that the force of shortening will generally be greater in proportion to the amount of the double refraction thus Since , according to Mitscherlich 's discovery , similar changes of form may be observed in doubly refractive crystals , we have apparently to deal with a properby pertaining to all doubly refi.active bodies as such .
Eeat as General Oause of Contraction of Doubly efractive Elements .
, the intluence which in all these cases is able to evoke the W. E. , " " Die Blatterschicht der electrischen Organ in ihrcn genetischen Beziehungen \amp ; c. , ' Pliuger 's Archiv , ' Bd .
57 , 1894 , p. 149 .
Prof. Th. W. Engelmann .
mecbanical energy of shortening is elevation of has the opposite effect .
Particularly instructive is the thermal contraction of nective tissue , on account of its to muscular movement , even with regard to details .
This tissue , like muscle , of doubIy refractive fibrils and of an inter-fibrillar singly tive isotropic substance .
The fibrils have about the same dimensiom as muscular fibrils , and , for the rest , show , in their optical and mechanical behaviour under various influences , a great likene muscular , especially to the doubly-refractive sarcous elemenk .
In tendons and many membranes the fibrils , as well those of most musclss , are arranged into bundles , all , or nearly all , parallsl to each other .
For this reason such objects are extremely well fitted for a closer examination of the phenomena of movement .
The most suitable material I know is furnished by the catgut string of a violin , which consists chiefly of such bundles , running in steep spird lines round the ]ongitudinal axis of the string .
Such a string is tinguished from the greater number of naturally occurring objects by its very regular cylindrical shape and its elasticity .
On these pro .
perties is based its suitability for musical purposes , especially for so-called " " perfect fifth\ldquo ; ( ' ' Quintenreinheit The Muscle-Model.\mdash ; With the aid of such a string we can compowe a model which in a simple way explains bow in the muscle m\amp ; chanical energy of contraction may result from heat perceptible rise of the average temperature of the muscle .
The following sketch ( fig. 1 ) presents this of the muscle grammatically simplified:\mdash ; A piece of an string of a violin , about 5 cm .
long and previonsly vollen in water , is fastened to the end , , of the short rigid arm a steel rod , , while the upper end of the string is fixed the shorter arm of the lever , , turning l.ound the horizontal To this string different tensions may be imparted by weights , or springs , acting upon the lever , and since the point of cation of the string may be changed will , its contraction , with conditions of isometry , isotony , and auxotony may be examind Round the string , but without touching it , runs for a length about 20 mm. , and ill about twenty curves , a spiral of thin wire .
Its ends may be co1lnected by means of two of the ebonite or ivory piece , , with the two wires coming from tbo poles of a Grove or Bunsen battel.y of thrce or more cells .
, bearing lever , sfring , and spiral wire , is placed in a of about 50 .
content , filled with water of about C. , and old at the top by an ebonite lid .
ough all aperture in ths lid,.$ thermometer is placed in the water in such a position that it will remain at a distance of about 1 cm .
from the spiral wire .
On the Nature of Muscular Contracfion .
The string is now observed for some minutes at a tension of 25 or 50 grammes , anrl at a constant temperature , until no further change in the position of the lev can be discerned .
If we now close for some conds the circuit of the battery through the spiral , the lever rises .
Upon opening the circuit , it falls .
'lihe hermometer in th , glass indicates a perceptible rise in temperature , or no rise at all .
We see the doubly-refractive string of our model corresponds with the doubly-refractive muscular particle , which we suppose to be bhe seat of the force of contraction , and therefore may be called " " inotagma ; \ldquo ; the water in the glass represents the watery isotropic Substance round the inotagma , doing duty as rigerant ; the spiral wire supplies the place of the chemically active thermogenic moleoules ; the closure of the galvanic circuit corresponds with the prooess of the stimulation of the muscular element .
The experiment may be simplified by heating in the air a string previously made to swell by being dipped in hot water and then waked in concentrated glycerine .
The movements will then take phce more quickly on accollnt of the quicker heating and cooling .
Noreover , the experiment may be repeated almost as often as one likes .
If we fasten to the lever a little metallic hook , which when The movements may be inscribed on a rotating cylinder .
then obtain curves of the same character as contractio11 .
of muscles fig. 2 Such a chordogram presents , like a myogram , three periods , viz 1 .
A period of latent energy , the duration of which , just as with the muscle , decreases with the increasing energy of the stimulus ( i.e. , with the intensity and duration of the electric current ) , with rising and with decreasing load .
2 .
A period of augpenting energy , in which contraction takes place with a rapidity , first increasing , afterwards , the contraction being , within certain limits , more rapid and larger in extent the stronger the stimulation .
3 .
A period of declining energy , in which the string relaxes with gradually decreasing rapidity .
Further Comparative Researches on the Thermal Contraction of Lifl less Refractive Bodies and the Physiological Contraction Muscle.\mdash ; The points of resemblance between our model and a musolo extend much further yet , and amongst other to peculiarities whioh seem to bear tant testimony to the identity of the process in the two cases .
Such a resemblance I find .
in the first place , in the fact that strength of the shortening power , developed by a certain increases with the load within certain limits .
Both muscle and stnng present the phenomenon that , under a sbimulus of equd energy , beavier weights ma be lifted higher than lighter ones .
Adolf Fick first detected this surprising fact in the muscles 0$ Anodonia ; and RudolN Heidenhain , almost at the same time , observd it in the striated muscle of .
It has been generally firmed , and seems to hold good for all kinds of muscles .
Neither the chemical nor the electrical hypothesis of the origin On the Nature of Muscular Contraction .
423 Illar force can give a sufficient explanation of this fact .
On the buis of our theory , on the contrary , it can be predicted , because every influence which augments the doubly-refractive power must raise the power of contraction .
Now , von Ebner has proved experimentally that the doubly refractive power of tendons and also , between certain limits , of muscles , increases with the load .
The same is the case with fibres of elastic tissue and with caoutchouc , and here also the contractile power increases with the load .
The differences of force which depend on the load are by no meanh insignificant .
According to Fick the lifting heights for 5 , 8 , and 10 .
were , with a muscle of Anodonta , related to each other as 8.3 : 10 : .
With strings , swollen in hot water , I obtained , when heating them from to C. , at an initial load of 5 a contractile power of but 55 .
; at a load of 50 .
one of 80 .
; and of 90 .
one of about 120 For strings swollen in lactic acid of per cent. the rates of power , corresponding with the initial tensions of 6 , 90 , and 125 amounted to about 100 , 125 , and 154 .
A strip of elastic tissue , 2 mm. thick , heated at C. , gave for an initial tension of 10 , at which the double refraction of fibres is just beginning to be perceptible , a power of but .
, for 100 .
one of 162 , for 185 .
of initial tension , at which double refraction is very strong , one of 238 .
A strip of ised caoutchouc , 2 mm. thick , which , unloaded and hence singly refractive , did not , even when heated to C. , tend at all to become shorter , developed with an initial load of , put on at C. , a contractile power of 110 at a tempelwtm.e of C. , while at the same time a strong power of double refraction had been acquired by it .
Now , it is brue , that Heidenhain has found at least in the stimulated striated muscles\mdash ; not onJy mechanical energy but also the development of heat and the formation of lactic acid increase together with initial tension .
But , according to his experiments , mechauical energy increases much more rapidly than does the production of heat .
This difference at least might be explained by the influence of extension on the doubly-refractive power .
An influence of extension on chemical action may very well be associated with the influence on double refraction , as a consequence of the changes the local arrangement of the thermogenic particles which are produced by the extension .
Such changes must be to a considerable degree , even when the shortening of the muscle is prevented by resistance ( isometric contraction of Fick ) , and especially in the case of striated muscles , to which Heidenhain 's statemen refer .
not only fibrils , fibrillar substance , and sarcolemma , but also the singly and the doubly-refractive portions of the fibrils difler much The very same thing , as Schwann 's experiments showed \ldquo ; years ago , holds good of muscle .
On the hypothesis of chemid attraction we should decidedly expect the reverse : force with an increasing mutual approach of the combining ; so also in the same way on every hypothesis which pronouru contraction to be caused by attractive powers increasing in ratio to the square of the distance .
In the fact discovered by Schwann , Johannes MulIer thought ke had found a refutation of the old electro-dynamic at Prevost and Dumas , as well as a valid reason for fundamsntal relation between the vital power of contraction physical elasticity .
However , as Hermann has obserwed , we might in this case over the difficulty by supposing that between or in the length of \amp ; parts attracting each other , there are elastic layers opposing\amp ; l attraction with increasing force .
It is evident that our view of the matter does not require such an auxiliary hypothesis , following Weber , we regard muscular contraction as 0* a special case of elastic shortening .
A closer experimental comparison of the changes undergone , on one hand , by the elasticity of our string during tbermal and , on the other , by muscular elasticity during physiologioal contraction , will teach us that , in each case , those changes are of exactly the same kind .
As regards striated muscles , it was Eduard Weber who , by hb classic researches , established that their extensibility increases during contraction .
same is now proved to hold good of strings other organic doubly-refractive subsbances during thermal The curwe of lengthening of all these objects inclines more towards the abscissa of the loads the higher the temperature .
B# curves converge and may finally even cross , i.e. , a certain load exceeded we do not get contraction of our string , but as the effect of heating .
This circumstance explains the fact , sometimes by E. Weber , that living , tired , heavily-loaded frogs ' musclss , On the Nature of Muscular Contraction .
of shorten as a result of electric stimulation .
Considered um other theoretical points of view , this observation seems } doxical that its very validity has been questioned by some physiologists ; but in the face of the direct and exact measurements of scrupulous an observer and inquirer as 1]iduard Weber , we have no right to do this .
Moreover , Charles Richet and de Varigny bvo confirmed the observation with different kinds of muscles of Invertebrata .
According to our view of ths origin of muscular orcs the fact is not paradoxical at all , but might be foreseen .
The decrease of the shortening power and the increase of extensibility with increasing thermal contraction is , in the case of our lifeless doubly-refractive objects , accompanied by a decrease in the power of double refraction .
According to von Ebner 's careful msasurements , confirmed by Alex .
Rollett , the same thing is the case with muscles during vital contraction .
We may consider this fact , too , as an important proof of the fundamental resemblance between the process of ntraction in our model and in the muscle , and at the same tim further evidencs of the existence of a causal relation between double refraction and contractility in general .
But it is the physicist 's task , and not the physiologist 's , to penetrate further into the relations between optic and elastic properties .
The may deem his purpose attained when he succeeds in tracing a certain vital phenomenon back to processes which may also be observed in lifelesa bodies .
However , though we should , perhaps , be inrlined to infer from the foregoing that we have successfully acquitted ourselves of this task with regard to muscular contraction , we will be careful not to overlook the numerous important respects in which a muscle as a living body , that is , one subjected to constant chemical transformation , differs from our lifeless strings .
The study of these differences is most instructive , since it throws a new light on a series of processes nearly allied to contraction , especially on the phenomena of nortis and tonus of muscle .
But before entering into this we shall first have to meet another important objection to our views .
It is based upon the amollnt of muscular force .
This amount may , as you know , be very high .
Human muscles at the strongest tetanic contraction can shorten with a force of about 10 kilogrammes to 1 .
cm .
of transsection .
Now such a force must , according to onr view , be Produced by a very small part only of the transverse section of the muscle .
With a maximal tetanus , it is true , the temperature of the whole does rise 1o C. or more .
Hence there are , perhaps , 1,000 times more particles chemically active than with a moderate simple contrwtion , where the temperature ises 0 C. only .
Consequently , musclethedoubly-refractiveparticlestendtocontracthowever'agreeverywellwiththehypothesisthat little , lengthen upon cooling .
Turgescence by Imbibihon as a General of Contractioff Doubly-refractive Organised Elements.\mdash ; On a closer examination , ever , we find that matters are still more complicated , and that there is still an important circumstance which , besides the temperature of inotagmata , may act as a cause of contraotion , of permanent contraction .
This circumstauce , the importance of which to muscular contraction was disclosed a score years ago by a rigorous microscopical examination of the proora taking place in the muscle fibres during contraction , is the turguaew of the -refractive elements by the imbibition of watery liquh .
All histologicai elements possessing doubly-refractive power even at an ordinary low temperature , to contract in the direotion the optical axis when their volume is enlarged by the imbibition watery fluid , and to lengthen when their volume diminishes of ]iquid .
The extent , power , and rapidity of the changes of depend on the nature and on the dimensions of the turgescent } and on the nature and quantity of the imbibed liquid .
For the examination of these relations our violiu strings yield fit material .
A long seriss of measurements has now vbln that there is a very close ance between contraction by bibition and thermal and physiological contraction .
I may menbw the marked extent of the , the high value of the foroa of , ontraction , its increase with the initial tension and its increasing shortening , the increase of extensibility , the decM refractive power and of doubly-refractive property .
The resemb ] is by no means exclusively of a qualitative , but also of a kind .
A change of form generally takes place when the the imbibed liquid changes , and it is of great importance question that even the slightest changes of composition can marked contractions and great mechanical effects .
Unloaded strings , e.g. , in pure water to in water which contains per cent. only of lactic acid to insects , distinguished by especially long sarcous elements , shortenings to 60 per cent. and more .
Since , according to mauy inquirsrs , lactic acid is formed during the rigor of striated muscles , and at all events the reaction of the muscular plasma grows acid , the doubly-refractive elements must neoessarily swell more and tcnd to shorten , and this contraction will romain until the acid has been neutralised or remo by diifusion .
Similar results will be obtained in other cases of rigor characterised by shortening and by the production of much acid , as the ordinary rigor mortis , the rigor produced by distil ] water , tlJe rigor which is caused by excessive stimulation , \amp ; c. Nay , in a bloodless muscle even a physiolo.ical stimulation , when sufficiently strong and long , may be expected to produce a lastiug shortening , on account of the gradually increasing acidity .
Indeed , the well-known incomplete relaxation of such muscles seems to me to be a symptom of this chemical contraction , as it may be called , in contrast with the thermal .
In a muscle in which the blood stream is maintained this will not so easily take place , not even under a strong and prolonged stimulation , ) ecause the acid is immediate ] neutralised or removed through difiusion .
Even in the isolated , bloodless muscle the acid , which is produoed by stimulation , may , in the beginning at least , be rendeled harmless through the very large quantity of non-acid fiuid imbibed by the muscle .
Consequently we must expect in these cases an immediate and complete relaxation after colltraction .
The facts agree absolutely with these suppositions .
It is , baps , not unnecessary to remark that all these observations would also hold good if ) material affecting .
turgescence were not lactic acid , but anotl ) substance arising the chemloal action in the muscle , , watet slight decrease of muscnlar volume observed in strong tetanic traction .
For , according to the experiments of Quincke , the Inbi .
bition of water by organised bodies generally leads to a slight condensation.* By this condensation further heat is developed , ud this heat might , by raising the temperature of the refnhvw elements , be partially transformed into mechanical energy , and this way contribute to the production of muscular force .
Yet I cannot consider this explanation as sufficient for all the fn4 .
The same argument which in our eyes seems to dispose of the thesis of the identity of chemical attraction and muscular , the infinitesimally small quantity of substance which is chemie}y active during a simple contraction , seems to me to present a mental difficulty here also .
It is hard to understand how change in the material composition , effected at one infinitesimal within a soft watery substance , the whole mass should shorten thicken , unless there proceeds from the centre of chemical achvity siderable amount of kineiic energy throughout the substance .
The microscop.ic appearances which prove the turgescence of doubly-refractive refringent elements during a contrachon , do exclude a direct thermo-dynamical effect .
For the almost complete identity in the changes of form , and of optical and mechanie properties , which the doubly refractive constituents of all elements undergo during chemical and thermal contraction , to bear out { he hypothesis , that in the thermal shortening of refractive elements , through the ) ition of watery flui get a shifting of solid and liquid substances analogous to that turgescence .
In most of the microscopical phenomena , the so-called fix ed contrac ion waves , we have , moreover , to with a high degres of tetanic contraction , or even with rigor , * In the ]lermal contraction of tendons and ings I have not yet } convince myself of a decrease in volnme .
of muscle .
Hence , we may concluds that chemical contraction by turgescence of the inotagmata is most likely a constant concomitant of the thermal ntraction of living mnscle , but that compared with the latter , in a single contraction , at least of striated fibres , the former is of little or no consequence as regards the shortening effect .
0\amp ; miotonus and Thermotonus.\mdash ; Both prooesses will probably als lake part in varying proportion in the tonus of muscle , which in some will approach more to pure chemiotonus , in others more to pure .
Experimental researches in this direction are wanted .
of the Relaxahon of Musde .
Theoretical Considerations .
Con\mdash ; With regard the relaxation of muscle , according to our theory this must be caused either by cooling , or by the withdrawal of water from the doubly-refractive particles .
Indeed , we found that doubly-refractive histological elements in general , even if they be lifeless , like our violin strings , lengthen again upon cooling after they have been contracted by heat , and that they lengthen upon neutralisation or diffusion , after they have been contracted by imbibition at an ordinary temperatnre .
In a normal relaxation the muscle seems to completely to i4 initial state .
Of course its store of energy has diminished in proportion to the quantity of mechanical work and heat which haa eeded from it , but , on account of the relatively infinitesimal quantity of substance which is thereby consumed , this return will neoessarily seem to be complete even in the case of an isolated muscle .
If we analyse the phenomena of relaxation more exactly , lve shall light on several possibilities , the discussion of which would be very interesting with regard to the theory of muscle-life .
I shall restrict myself to the phenomena of the relaxation on contraction .
Here , in the first place , we might conceive that the doublyrefractive inotagmata are destroyed in the thermal shortening , so that each of them performs its function once only .
The lengthening of the muscular fibrils would then probably be caused ] by the .
ehstic powers of the passively extended or compressed by the hortening of the inotagmata .
Upon a fresh stimulation , other lnotagmata would , in consequence of the combustion of other thermogenic molecules , become active , perish , \amp ; c. Through the activity of the formative matter of the living muscle-fibre , the place of the lost two of the most important of them .
There seems to bs no doubt but that the doubly-refranhvo particles of the muscle consist of an albuminous substance , and $u they together make up a sensible part of the whole albumin of \amp ; muscle-fibrils .
In that case it would be most improbable thr$ OTeat increase of muscular work should not at all , or only slightly , increase the elimination of nitrogen .
To account for thig , should have to recur to an auxiliary hypothesis , and assume either that the nitrogenous remainder of the destroyed inotagma is retainl within the body\mdash ; perhaps in the muscle\mdash ; for purposes of or , which is indeed most improbable , that other organs saved just much albumin as was decomposed above the quantity dnriug the contraction of the muscles .
A second objection consists in the fact that after heating or ing muscles until they are rigid , the doubly-refractive power of th sarcous elements will be found still very great .
The other possibility is that the inotagmata may be preserved , and consequently on cooling may return to their former state , therefore will do work by shortening as often as we choose .
In thil case muscle would not only seem to offer , but would in fact ofFer 1 most striking resemblance to a thermodynamic machine , the particles of the framework of which are not destroyed through tln chemical process producing the actual energy .
No more than suoh machine would the mnscle require a perpetual renewal of framework for the continuation of its activity ; it would only want periodic supply of fresh combustible material .
This representation , as you see , will sufficiently account for the which would otherwise remain surprising , that muscular work hue such a small influence on the elimination of nitrogen .
The factl microscopic observation also agree with it .
But a further discussion of the two possibilities would lead us toc far .
The purpose of this lecture was llot to give a account of all the phenomena of muscular activity .
I have wished to draw your attention to a series of facts which I hold to of importance for a deeper insight into the essence of muscular tractility , in so far as they prove the existence of certain mat dispositions and processes ( admitting of closer experimental tion ) , by means of which mechanical work may be generated in muscle by chemical energy .
Pres .
433 Ae with all problems of natural philosophy we must forego the comolution , and content ourselves with approximations to truth , so now we will refrain from calling out with Archimedes , but rather be of the words of the apostle : Transactions .
Belgrade :Servian Academy .
Glass .
No. 45 . .
Belgrade 1894 ; [ and another in Servian .
] .
The Academy .
Berlin :schaft fur Erdkunde .
Verl ) andlungen .
Bd .
XXII .
No. 2 . .
Berlin 1895 ; Zeitschrift .
Bd .
XXIX .
No. 6 . .
Berlin 1894 .
Socieby .
Brussels:\mdash ; Societe Belge de Geologie de Paleontologie et d'Hydrologie .
Tomes xelles 1887-94 .
The Society .
Bncharest : de Sciint , Fizice .
Buletin .
Annl III .
Nos. 9 , 10 .
1894 .
The Society .
Mass .
Harvard College .
Annual Repol.ts of the President and .
1893-94 . .
Cambrilge 1895 .
College .
Cordova :demia de Ciencias .
oletin .
Tomo XIV .
Entr .
1 . .
Buonos 1894 .
The Academy .
Eastbourne :Natural History Society .
Transactions .
Vol. Il .
Part 8 . .
Eastbourne [ 1894 ] .
The Society .
\mdash ; Royal Gardens .
Bulletin of MiscelIaneous Information .
February , .
London .
The Director .
London:\mdash ; British Museum ( Natural History ) .
A Monograph of the Mycetozoa . .
London 1894 ; of the Snakes .
Vol. .
London 1894 .
Museum .
Marine Biological Association .
Vol. III .
No. 4 .
1895 .
The Association .
Royal Photographic Society .
Journal and Transactions .
Vol. .
No. 6 . .
London 1895 .
Socioty .
Society of Biblical Archaeology .
Proceedings .
] XVII .
I. .
Lomlon 1895 .
The Society .
Society .
Transac.tiollS .
Vol. XXIII .
Parts , 4 . .
Manchester 1895 .
The Societ Municb:\mdash ; K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Sitzungsberichte .
1894 .
Heft 4 . .
Munchen 1895 .
The Academy .
LV11 .

