XXVII .
An Account of several sepulchral Inscriptions and Figures in Bas-relief , discovered , in 1755 , at Bonn in Lower Germany .
In a Letter to James West , Esquire , Pr .
R. S. from John Strange , Esquire , F. R. S. SIR , YOUR distinguished taste for antiquities , and the zeal you have ever shown in the preservation of them , encourage me to address to you the following account of some curious remains of Roman antiquity , found a few years since at Bonn in Lower Germany .
Read Nov. 9 , 1769 .
In a journey to Italy , in the summer of 1757 , passing through Germany and the Tyrol , I had opportunities of collecting several ancient Roman inscriptions , which , upon examination afterwards , I found had never been published .
Upon my arrival in Tuscany , I therefore communicated them to such , among my literary friends , as delighted in these studies , and my German inscriptions were soon after published by Dr. Lami , professor of theology at Florence ( 1 ) .
( 1 ) Novelle Letterarie di Firenze , t. xxiv .
p. 527 : The remainder were inserted by Abbe Donati , of Lucca , in a new collection of ancient Roman inscriptions which he has lately published by way of supplement to Muratori 's Thesaurus .
But as several of the inscriptions , which I had collected in Germany , were copied from bas-reliefs , which appeared to me to be curious , and very little known , I thought proper to have drawings of them made , and take this opportunity of communicating them to you ; desiring at the same time , that you would be pleased to present them , in my name , to the learned Society over which you preside , should you think they merit their attention and acceptance .
Permit me at present to give you the following short account of the originals .
About May , 1755 , in digging some foundations in a garden belonging to his serene Highness the Elector of Cologne , at Bonn in Germany , several ancient Roman sepulchral stones were found .
Eight of these , being thought curious on account of the bas-reliefs and inscriptions carved upon them , were soon after fixed up against the wall of an inner open court of the electoral palace at Bonn , where they still remain .
The drawings(2 ) , which I have now the honour to send you , are faithful copies of these antiquities , which being in the highest preservation , and the inscriptions upon them containing nothing more than the usual form , it would be impertinent to enter into any particular description of them .
I cannot however omit remarking the singular barbarity of the Roman soldiers names in these inscriptions .
It will be further ( 2 ) See Tab. VIII .
and IX .
CALVIVST~ ~ LFRON TO Philos. Trans. Vol. LIX .
TAB. VIII .
p 196 .
DM ~ .
SI DVAE OBI VR CABRIO VI ~ .
IFER ~ ~ CABRIO HRM IV TF ~ PI~AIVS PED ~ ~ MONANVS CASTL~ ~PHLIVS ~F~N INERCATIA SIGN SECVNDVS-DOM CHO-V-ASTVR~ MEDI~MLESLE~ ANNO-XXX-STTP-~ XV-PRIM-ANN ~ STIP-V-H-EX-T-T-~ Philos. Trans. Vol. LIX .
TAB. IX .
p.196 L~ PIPER ~ LF~ ~~ TVS~ ~ TA VRINVS ~ MIL ~ XV ~ PRIM AN ~ XXIII ~ SPJP IV ~~EXTFC ~N DOM E~ NN-XXV satisfactory to acquaint you , that I wrote some time ago to Father Hartzheim , a learned Jesuit and antiquarian of Cologne ( the author of Veldidena and several other tracts relating to the antiquities of Lower Germany , and who is since dead ) , in order to know whether any farther discoveries had been made at Bonn since that time .
His answer assured me that nothing more had been found .
This is all I have to trouble you with upon the present subject ; give me leave , therefore , to assure you , that I shall with pleasure embrace any future opportunity of communicating such particulars , relative to the scope of the Royal Society , as have fallen within the course of my travels ; and shall ever esteem their indulgence an ample compensation for my trouble .
I have the honour to be , SIR , Your very obedient and humble servant , Cavendish Square , July 10 , 1769 .
John Strange .

