II .
" On Fluoride of Silver.-Part I. By GEORGE GORE , F.R.S. Received October 5 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) This communication treats of the formation , preparation , analysis , composition , common physical properties , and chemical behaviour of fluoride of silver .
The salt was prepared by treating pure silver carbonate with an excess of pure aqueous hydrofluoric acid in a platinum dish , and evaporating to dryness , with certain precautions .
The salt thus obtained invariably contains a small amount of free metallic silver , and generally also traces of water and of hydrofluoric acid , unless special precautions mentioned are observed .
It was analyzed by various methods : the best method of determining the amount of fluorine in it consisted in evaporating to dryness a mixture of a known weight of the salt dissolved in water , with a slight excess of pure and perfectly caustic lime in a platinum bottle , and gently igniting the residue at an incipient red heat until it ceased to lose weight .
By taking proper care , the results obtained are accurate .
The reaction in this method of analysis takes place according to the following equation , 2AgF + CaO = CaF2+ 2Ag+ O. Sixteen parts of oxygen expelled equal thirty-eight parts of fluorine present .
One of the methods employed for determining the amount of silver consisted in passing dry ammonia over the salt in a platinum boat and tube at a low red heat .
The results ob tained in the various analyses establish the fact that pure fluoride of silver consists of 19 parts of fluorine and 108 of silver .
Argentic fluoride is usually in the form of yellowish brown earthy fragments ; but when rendered perfectly anhydrous by fusion , it is a black horny mass , with a superficial satin lustre , due to particles of free silver .
It is extremely deliquescent and soluble in water ; one part of the salt dissolves in '55 part by weight of water at 150 ?
5 C. ; it evolves heat in dissolving , and forms a strongly alkaline solution .
It is nearly insoluble in absolute alcohol .
The specific gravity of the earthy-brown salt is 5'852 at 15ยง 5 C. ; the specific gravity of its aqueous solution , at 15 ?
*5 C. , saturated at that temperature , is 2*61 .
By chilling the saturated solution , it exhibited the phenomenon of supersaturation and suddenly solidified , with evolution of heat , on immersing a platinum plate in it .
The solution is capable of being crystallized , and yields crystals of a hydrated salt ; the act of crystallization is attended by the singular phenomenon of the remainder of the salt separating in the anhydrous and apparently non-crystalline state , the hydrated salt taking to itself the whole of the water .
The fused salt , after slow and undisturbed cooling , exhibits crystalline markings upon its surface .
The dry salt is not decomposed by sunlight ; it melts below a visible red heat , and forms a highly lustrous , mobile , and jet-black liquid .
It is not decomposed by a red heat alone ; but in the state of semifusion , or of complete fusion , it is rapidly decomposed by the moisture of the air with separation of metallic silver ; dry air does not decompose it .
In the fused state it slightly corrodes vessels of platinum , and much more freely those of silver .
The salt in a state of fusion with platinum electrodes conducts electricity very freely , apparently with the facility of a metal , and without visible evolution of gas or corrosion of the anode ; a silver anode was rapidly dissolved by it , and one of lignum-vita charcoal was gradually corroded .
A saturated aqueous solution of the salt conducted freely with electrolysis , crystals of silver being deposited upon the cathode , and a black crust of peroxide of silver upon the anode ; no gas was evolved ; with dilute solutions gas was evolved from the anode .
By electrolysis of anhydrous hydrofluoric acid with silver electrodes , the anode was rapidly corroded .
The electrical order of substances in the fused salt was as follows , the first-named being the most positive : silver , platinum , charcoal of lignum-vitoe , palladium , gold .
In a dilute aqueous solution of the salt , the order found was : aluminium , magnesium , silicon , iridium , rhodium , and carbon of lignum-vitae , platinum , silver , palladium , tellurium , gold .
The chemical behaviour of the salt was also investigated .
In many cases considerable destruction of the platinum vessels occurred , either in the experiments themselves , or in the processes of cleaning the vessels from the products of the reactions .
Hydrogen does not decompose the dry salt , even with the aid of sunlight , nor does a stream of that gas decompose an aqueous solution of the salt , but the dry salt is rapidly and perfectly decomposed by that gas at an incipient red heat , its metal being liberated .
Nitrogen has no chemical effect upon the salt , even at a red heat , nor upon its aqueous solution .
Dry ammonia gas is copiously absorbed by the dry salt .
In one experiment the salt absorbed about 844 times its volume of the gas .
The salt in a fused state is rapidly and perfectly decomposed by dry ammonia gas , and its silver set free .
A saturated solution of the salt is also instantly and violently decomposed by strong aqueous ammonia .
Oxygen has no effect either upon the dry salt at 15 ?
C. , or at a red heat , nor upon its aqueous solution .
Steam perfectly and rapidly decomposes the salt at an incipient red heat , setting free all its silver .
No chemical change took place on passing either of the oxides of nitrogen over the salt in a state of fusion .
By passing anhydrous hydrofluoric acid vapour over perfectly anhydrous and previously fused fluoride of silver , at about 60 ?
Fahr. , distinct evidence of the existence of an acid salt was obtained .
This acid salt is decomposed by a slight elevation of temperature .
Numerous experiments were made to ascertain the behaviour of argentic fluoride in a state of fusion with chlorine , and great difficulties were encountered in consequence of the extremely corrosive action of the substances when brought together in a heated state .
Vessels of glass , platinum , gold , charcoal , gas carbon , and purified graphite were employed* .
By heating the salt in chlorine , contained in closed vessels , formed partly of glass and partly of platinum , more or less corrosion of the glass took place , the chlorine united with the platinum and fluoride of silver to form a'double salt , and a vacuum was produced .
By similarly heating it in vessels composed wholly of platinum , the same disappearance of chlorine , the same double salt , and a similar vacuum resulted .
Also , by heating it in vessels composed partly of gold , an analogous double salt , the same absorption of chlorine and production of rarefaction were produced .
And by employing vessels partly composed of purified graphite , a new compound of fluorine and carbon was obtained .

