Upon the Extent of the Expansion and Contraction of Timber in different directions relative to the Position of the Medulla of the Tree .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read May 8 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 269 .
] Most of the attempts which have been made by writers on vegetable physiology , to account for the force with which the sap of trees ascends during the spring , having proved unsatisfactory and inadequate , Mr. Knight was induced some years ago to suggest the expansion and contraction of the cellular processes proceeding from the bark to the medulla , and which he called the true or silver grain of the wood , as concerned in this process .
The present paper contains further experiments , showing this power to be active in living trees , and were made on many kinds of timber with nearly similar results .
Some boards of ash and beech wood were cut in opposite directions relative to their medulla , so that the convergent cellular processes crossed the surfaces of some of them at right angles , and were parallel with the surfaces of others .
These were placed , under similar circumstances , in a warm room , and the former warped about ten times more than the latter , contracting nearly 14 per cent. in breadth , while the others only contracted 31 per cent. During his experiment Mr. Knight was led to infer that the medullary canal must be liable to considerable changes of diameter , as the moisture of wood increases or diminishes .
To ascertain this , parts of the stems of young trees were carefully dried , the medulla was removed , and metal cylinders driven with force into the empty space .
The pieces of wood were then suffered to absorb moisture , and the medullary canal became so much enlarged as to suffer the cylinders to fall out .
Mr. Knight conceives that this kind of expansion often produces those rifts in trees referred to wind or frost .
That winds cannot be the cause , seems obvious from the circumstance of pollard-oak-trees being almost always rifted , upon which they can have little power ; and the frost of this climate is seldom sufficiently intense to congeal the winter sap in trees .
The force with which this cellular substance of timber expands , is more than adequate to such effects , and often overcomes a pressure of many tons ; and as it is in action in the living tree , Mr. Knight is of opinion that it is the agent by which the powerful propulsion of the sap observed by Hales is effected .

