]\gt ; Mr. J. H. Hyde .
the Viscosities and In conclusion , I wish to thank Dr. A. W. Porter , of University College , London , for his kindly interest and helpful suggestions throughout the experiment .
I also wish to acknowledge that some of the expense of the experi .
meant was met by a Government grant .
As is stated above , this experiment was completed in 1915 .
A sojourn in the army has , however , prevented its earlier preparation for publication .
On the Viscosities Compressibilities of Liquids at High Pressures .
By J. H. HYDE , A.M.Inst .
C.E. , A.M.I.Mech .
E. Communicated by Dr. J. E. Petavel , F.R.S.\mdash ; Received December 19 , 1919 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory The research here described was mdertaken for the Committee on Lubricants and Lubrication of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research , for the purpose of the analysis of the results of a previous investigation into the efficiency of power transmission through a worm gear when different kinds of oil , animal , vegetable , and mineral , were used as the lubricant .
Since pressures of the order of 5 tons per square inch between the lubricated surfaces of worm gears are not uncommon , a knowledge of the rates of variation of the viscosities of the oils up to these pressures was essential , and as this information was not obtainable , the experiments necessary for the determinations were put in hand at the request of the Committee .
On looking into the question of suitable experimental methods , a direct measure of the changes of viscosity of the oils under pressure did not seem promising , and , therefore , the work was divided into two stages .
In the first place , experiments were undertaken in which the values of the kinematical viscosity was determined , and after this investigation was completed , apparatus was devised for the study of the changes of density with pressure .
The possibility of the existence of a considerable variation in the values of the viscosities between the ordinary pressures at which they are usually obtained in visGometels and pressures of the order of 5 tons per square inch appeared to be probable from the results obtained by Prof. O. Faust at Gottingen in 1914 the cases of ethyl-ether , ethyl alcohol , and carbon bisulphide .
CompressibilitieLriquids at High Pressures .
PART L\mdash ; Apparatus for Determination of the Absolut Kinernaticnl cosities of Liquids at High Pressures and the Results from it in the case of certain Oits .
For this research , a novel method was suggested by Dr. T. E. Stanton , which , in his opinion , possessed advantages over that previously used by Faust from the point of view of accuracy and simplicity .
The apparatus required in this method consists essentially of a system of two horizontal tubes ( the upper one of capillary dimensions ) and two vertical tubes , forming a closed circuit of liquid under pressure , the lower half of the circuit containing mercury and the upper half the liquid under test .
One end of the tubular frame rests on a horizontal knife-edge , and the frame is supported in a horizontal position by a spiral spring .
On the mercury being displaced by a given amount , flow will take place round the circuit , owing to the difference of head , and it is evident that , if the spring be so designed that its rate of extension is equal to the rate of change of head of the mercury , flow of the liquid under test will take place through the capillary tube under a constant pressure difference and at a velocity which can be calculated from the rate of extension of the spring .
In this way all the data required for the determination of the absolute kinematic viscosity of the fluid are determined .
After some experiments , this method was adopted and the design of the complete apparatus and the carrying out of the experiments was undertaken by the author .
A simple glass apparatus was first constl.ucted to gain familiarity with the method and to obtain information on which to design the high pressure instrument .
A diagrammatic sketch of the glass apparatus is given in fig. The instrument consists of a -tube , the limbs A and of which are connected together at their lower ends by a large-bore tube and at their upper ends by a capillary tube , as shown .
The whole is mounted on a frame supported by a knife-edge , and so arranged that the left-hand side is heavier than the right .
The lower half of the circuit is filled with mercury and the upper half with the liquid under experiment .
The motion of the frame is governed by the extension of a spring , to which it is connected through the supporting arm , terminating in a pointer which moves over a finely divided scale .
The method of experiment is as follows:\mdash ; The tilting frame is set in such a posit:ion that the horizontal tubes are truly level and the scale .
is adjusted so that the pointer reads zero .
A tilt is given to the frame , moving the pointer vertically upwards , the taps and Mr. J. H. Hyde .
On the Viscosities being open .
The tilt causes a flow in the -tube , and when this flow has ceased the taps are closed and the frame is restored to its original position , with the pointer at zero , the tension of the spring being adjusted to support the frame in this position .
The head of mercury now in the -tube can be calculated from the motion which has been given to the pointer and from the distances OR and AB .
If now the tap is opened , the liquid will flow through the capillary tube from A to , and the mercury from tube to tube A. It is arranged that the stiffness of the spring is such that the tilt of the frame , due to the extra of mercury , exactly compensates for the loss of head which would have occurred if no tilt of the frame had taken place .
The effective stiffness of the spring is adjusted by altering its position along the lever F. By the use of the spring in this manner a constant head of mercury is obtained , and also , the fall of the frame as indicated by the pointer gives a measure of the volume of liquid which has passed from one side to the other .
For example , suppose OA ( measuring to the axes of the vertical tubes ) , then the head of mercury is given directly by the scale , and the volume of liquid which has passed from A to is obtained from the product of half the drop of the pointer during the measured time , and the area of the cross-section of the tube A or ( these being equal in diameter ) .
After the head and spring have been accurately set , the head remains constant throughout , and all that is required for the calculation of the viscosity is the rate of fall of the pointer over the le .
Comp.ressibilities of Liquids at High Pressures .
The coefficient of viscosity is obtained by substituting the values of time and volume in the equation:\mdash ; where coefficient of viscosity , density of liquid , head of liquid calculated from known head of mercury in liquid ) , acceleration of gravity , radius of capillary tube , time , volume , length of capillary tube .
The High Pressure Apparatus .
conoeter.\mdash ; The parts of the apparatus which were subjected to the pressure were made of high tensile steel .
The vertical tubes to A and of fig. 1 were cm .
bore , ground and lapped truly parallel and cylindrical , and 4 cm .
outside diameter .
Full-bore plugs were provided the lower ends of these tubes for cleaning purposes .
The lower horizontal tube was of hydraulic tubing , polished inside .
Holes , suitably plugged , were provided so that this tube could be cleaned mechanically .
The upper ends of the two vertical tubes terminated in valve boxes connected together by the upper horizontal tube .
The latter was of hydraulic tubing , polished internally and about 1 cm .
bore .
The right-hand valve box carried the stuffing-box and glands for the glass capillary tube , and the by- pass for the latter with the valve P. The left-hand valve box contained the valve for controlling the flow of the liquid in the apparatus and also the valve or stopcock on the pipe from the pressure supply .
The latter valve and also the by-pass valve took the form of small truncated cones , with a small hole in the side of the conical portion leading to a central hole .
The former hole corresponded with a hole of similar size in the valve box , and consequently a small rotation of the valve served to shut it .
It was arranged that the large end of the cone was inside the apparatus , so that the pressure forced the valve on its seat rendering packing unnecessary .
The two valves were carefully ground in and gave little trouble , except with liquids which were not lubricants .
They were provided with square heads and operating keys .
The valve was a plain cylindrical rotary valve with a hole in its side leading from the hole in the top of the tube A to a central hole in the valve , and thence to the upper horizontal tube .
The valve was packed with leather and the whole was made in such a manner that it could be manipulated with moderate ease from above the surface of the oil in the bath in which the apparatus was mmersed during an experiment .
The stuffing-box for the capillary tube was packed with leather , and was Mr. J. H. Hyde .
On the Viscosities and so designed that the area of packing exposed to pressure at one end was in excess of that at the opposite end , in order that the pressure should be .
utilised to keep the packing tightly squeezed .
The gland was screwed home as tightly as possible , but , after high pressure had been applied , it was always possible to screw it further , showing that the desired effect had been obtained .
The glass tube was considerably roughened where it passed through the leather packing .
The -hand valve box was provided with a large hole on the right for the admission of the capillary and for cleaning purposes .
hole was closed with a screwed fitted with a thermocouple , which is described later Knife-edges and Plates.\mdash ; The horizontal tubes of the viscometer were spanned at the centre of their length by an aluminium frame which carried , the steel knife-edges .
A steel supported the viscometer from the bottom of the bath , and a bridge across this frame held the agate knife-edge plates .
This frame also carried a device by which the viscometer could be tilted by a fixed amount and clamped in this position for the operation of the valves .
An arrester , .
somewhat on the lines of that of a chemical balance , was also fitted , by which the viscometer could be lifted very slightly off its knife-edges and clamped in a horizontal position .
The pointer was fixed at the end of a horizontal lever pivoted at the centre of the supporting frame vertically above the main , and connected by means of a vertical link to the viscometer tube A. The link was attached to the latter tube in the same horizontal line as the main knife-edge , the system forming a parallel motion .
All connections were made by small knife-edges .
The lever was provided with a small scale along its length corresponding to a similar scale on a horizontal beam above , supported from the main frame .
The spring was attached to sliding carriages on these two scales , so that the position of its ends from the centre of the system could be set accurately to any desired value .
The pointer took the form of a hair-line cross wire , and its passage over the vertical scale was observed by means of a telescope some 5 feet distant .
Thermoconple.\mdash ; The thermocouple was provided to ensure that the temperature inside the apparatus was equal to that recorded by the bath thermometer , and to give , also , an indication of the time required to attain any particular temperature .
Two thermocouples , one inside the apparatus and one in the bath , were opposed in a galvanometer circuit , and the galvanometer thus indicated any difference in temperature between the liquid in the viscometer and the liquid in the bath .
Compressibitities of Liquids at High Pressures .
Oil Bath.\mdash ; The bath in which the apparatus was immersed consisted of a rectangular tank , with semicircular ends , supported in a wooden box .
There was a space of 2 inches between the box and the tank on all sides , and this space was filled with granulated cork lagging .
The bath was fitted with a thermosyphon arrangement , and the heat supply was ulated by a toluenemercury thermostat .
Stirrer.\mdash ; The stirrer consisted of six small propeller blades attached to a horizontal shaft near the bottom of the bath .
The shaft was driven through bevel gearing and a vertical shaft by a small electric motor .
covers were supplied for the top of the bath .
It was possible to regulate the temperature of the bath oil to about C. , and this.was left at the desired temperature for some hours , usually overnight , before experiments were made , to ensure that the temperature .of the liquid inside the viscometer was the same as that of the bath .
CapiUary Tubes.\mdash ; All the tubes selected were measured for outside diameter at several positions along their lengths and in two directions at right angles .
Tubes that did not show a tolerably uniform and circular section on the exterior were rejected as being unlikely to give satisfaction on the internal diameter .
After cleaning and drying the selected tubes , each bore was accurately cahbrated by measuring the length of a thread of mercury of determined mass , at various positions in the bore .
In all cases accurate correction was made for the volume occupied by the mercury meniscus .
The following are the numerical results of the calibration:\mdash ; Table I. eaoh.position , Tube NThe individual values of the bores , as determined above , are accurate to within one part in four thousand .
The accuracy of the above values of depends on the extent of the irregularities of the walls .
Calibrations were not attempted with a short mercury thread measured in a large number of positions along the bore of a tube .
Prdiminary Tests of Apparatus , Valves , etc.\mdash ; A glass rod was substituted Mr. J. H. Hyde .
On the Viscosities and for the capillary tube to test for leakage in thavalves and and through the stuffing-box .
It was found that under the maximum mercury head available in the apparatus there was no leakage whatever during the course of two hours .
This test was repeated at a pressure of 8 tons per sq .
in .
and no leakage either past the valves or past the glass rod was observed .
Head.\ldquo ; \mdash ; Arrangements were made to substitute a chemical balance for the spring , and connection was made to the spring lever vertically over the point of attachment of the link connecting the lever with the viscometer .
Knife-edges were used throughout .
By means of the balance , the extra weight of mercury ( less the weight of an equal volume of liquid ) passing over to one side due to a definite tilt of the apparatus could be obtained .
The various leverages and the diameters of the vertical tubes or cylinders .
being accurately determined by direct measurement , a check on the head produced by the known tilt was obtained .
It was arranged that the pointer at the end of the spring lever indicated the head directly on the scale over which it moved and the head indicated was found to agree very with that calculated from the weight obtained by means of the chemical as described above .
The sensitivity of the apparatus when balanced on ita knife-edges was represented by about .
at the chemical balance when the apparatus was immersed in oil .
Position of Spring for Constant Head.\mdash ; The position of the spring to give constant head having been calculated , it was checked in the following manner , The head was set to a definite amount by tilting the viscometer so that the pointer moved upwards .
After a short period of rest in this position with the main valve and by-pass valve open , the main valve was shut and tha viscometer levelled , the pointer being then at zero , and the mercury standing higher in the right-hand tube than in the left-hand one .
The spring was now placed in the position previously calculated and set by means of the scales provided on the lever and beam above , and its tension adjusted to support the viscometer ( it being arranged that the left-hand side should be the heavier ) with the pointer at zero , the viscometer being on its .
knife-edges .
The apparatus was fixed in this position ( level ) , and the main valve opened to allow the mercury to again level itself , after which the valve was closed .
On releasing the arrester , the extra weight of mercury then on the left-hand side caused the viscometer to tilt against the action of the spring .
If the lattel was in its correct position , the pointer , on coming .
to rest , shouId be as far below zero as it was above it when the head was set , the head being now solely due to the tilt of the apparatus as indicated the pointer on the scale .
In short , when the tension of the spring was adjusted and the apparatus .
Compressibilities of Liquids at High Pressures .
level , the head was produced by virtue of the position of the levels of the mercury in the tubes , and at the end of the check the mercury was in its / level\ldquo ; position with regard to the apparatus , but the tilt of the apparatus produced the same head as before .
Calculation of the Position of Spriw from the Axis of the Apparatvs .
Let represent the density of the mercury , and the density of the liquid under test .
A the area of cross-section of the side tubes .
the force in grammes necessary to tilt the apparatus for 1 cm .
head ( no flow taking place ) .
the distance from the axis of the vertical side tubes to the axis of the apparatus .
the distance of the spring from the axis of the apparatus .
the stiffness of the spring in grammes per cm .
Then the increase in weight at the distance from the axis due to 1 cm .
head If the spring were placed at a distance from the axis , its stiffness would need to be such that a force would cause it to extend cm .
, i.e. , its stiffness would need to be equal to .
per centimetre length .
The distance of the spring from the axis , in order that its effective stiffness at a distance should be equal to , is therefore given by The apparatus was not very to the position of the spring .
Method of eriment.\mdash ; In carrying out an experiment , the pressure in the viscometer was applied by means of a small hand pump and intensifier .
The pressure was measured by a dead-weight pressure gauge .
After closing the valve or stop-cock on the viscometer , the intensifier was disconnected and the viscometer tilted to obtain the desired head , after which the flow valve and by-pass were shut and the apparatus levelled .
The spring being placed in position , its tension was adjusted to support the viscometer in the level position , the pointer being at zero .
Before these operations , the temperature of the bath and viscometer had been adjusted to the required value .
The flow valve was next opened , and time readings of the passage of the pointer over the scale were taken .
The volume of oil passing through the capillary in a certain time is obtained , as previously described , by the product of the cross-sectional area of one side tube and half the fall of the pointer during that time .
Mr. J. M. Hyde .
On the Viscosities and Method of Application Measurement Pressure.\mdash ; The liquid for experiment was contained in a reservoir , from which it was led to a small hand pump , and thence to a pressure intensifier .
The intensifier was connected to the viscometer by an easily detachable pipe of fine bore .
After the pressure had been applied to the viscometer and the stop-cock closed , the connecting pipe was detached , so that the viscometer should be free to swing on its knife-edges .
The hand pump served both to fill the viscometer with the liquid to be tested and to prime the intensifier .
The latter consisted of a steel plunger 1 cm .
diameter , working in a strong steel cylinder .
The plunger was guided axially by rigid bars , and its motion in the cylinders was produced by means of a screw , nut , and handwheel .
The stroke of the plunger was about 10 diameters .
The cylinder carried a Bourdon pressure gauge , and a column fitted at the top with a small vertical piston and cylinder for the measurement of the pressure .
The pressure side of the small piston and the pressure gauge communicated with the back end of the intensifier cylinder .
The piston was one hundredth of a square inch in sectional area , and could support , by means of a frame , a maximum dead weight of to a pressure of 10 tons per square inch , or 1575 kgrm .
per square centimetre .
It was arranged that the piston could be rotated to minimise its friction in the cylinder .
The readings of the pressure gauge served as a check on the pressure measurement .
or EXPERIMENTS .
The rmination of the Viscosity of Water as a Check on the Aceuracy Instrument .
The viscosity of water was determined at temperatures of C. ) C. for comparison with the results of previous experimenters , and the following results were obtained:\mdash ; ( Cross.sectional area of the vertical tubes taken as 1767 sq .
cm .
) Compressibilities of Lnquids at High Pressures .
Previous determinations have been : Thorpe and Rodgers at C. Poiseuille C. Sprung C. Slotte C. The Tests on ating Oils\mdash ; The oils tested were good commercial samples of their kind , and included vegetable , animal , fish , and mineral oils .
The vegetable oils were represented by castor and rape , the animal by " " trotter\ldquo ; ( a substitute for lard oil ) , the fish by sperm , and the mineral by F. F. F. Cylinder , Victory Red , Bayonne , Mobiloil ' ' \ldquo ; and Mobiloil\ldquo ; BB The values of the kinematical viscosity obtained for pressures up to 1250 kgrm .
per square centimetre are given in Tables II to inclusive .
Table II.\mdash ; Viscosity of Victory Red Oil ( Mineral ) .
No. 5 Capillary Tube , Length cm .
Temperature C. Head cm .
Table III .
\mdash ; Viscosity of Castor Oil .
Temperature Table \mdash ; Viscosity of Mobiloils " " \ldquo ; and C. ( No. 5 Capillary " " BB Temperature C. Tube used .
) VOL. XCVII .
Mr. J. H. Hyde .
On the Viscosities and PCR S Table Viscosity of various icating Oils .
Temperature C. Compressibilities of Liquids at High Pressures .
9 a Mr. J. H. Hyde .
On the Viscosities It will be observed that the experiments at atmospheric pressure were made on the castor oil with the capillary tubes of different sizes , viz. , tubes Nos. 4 and 6 .
II.\mdash ; Apparatus for the Determination of the Compressibility of Iiquids , and the Values Obtained for Water and Certain Lubricating Oils .
On the conclusions of the experiments described in Part I , for the measurement of the values of the kinematic viscosities of fluids , the work in connection with the estimation of the densities at high pressures was commenced , in order that the ratio of variation with pressure of the absolute viscosities of the oils might .
be obtained .
For this purpose a special apparatus was devised by the author , by means of which the compressibility of a liquid , under the pressures used in the viscosity tests , could be easily and rapidly measured .
The apparatus consists essentially of a small strong steel cylinder , about diameters long , closed at one end , and fitted with a plunger , carrying a sleeve , at the other .
The cylinder is filled with the liquid under experiment , and it is arranged that the plunger stands inside the cylinder for about 8 diameters , or half its length , at the commencement of the experiment .
The whole is immersed in a strong tube of the liquid , and the pressure in this tube is raised to the desired value .
The motion of the plunger necessary to equalise the pressure inside and outside of the small cylinder causes a movement of the sleeve relative to the plunger .
The sleeve is provided with springs , which cause it to remain in its new position on the plunger , when the pressure is released and the latter moves to its original position relative to the cylinder .
Measurements are made of the position of the sleeve on the plunger before and after the application of the pressure , and the decrease in volume of the liquid in the small cylinder thus determined .
The steel cylinder was approximately 8 mm. bore , 16 mm. outside diameter , and 350 mm. long , closed at one end by a plug fitted with a small valve .
The bore of the cylinder was very accurately cylindrical and straight .
Its mean diameter was measured to within cm .
, and the depth of the bore to the face of the plug to within cm .
The capacity was checked by weighing the mercury content and by calculation from the dimensions .
The plunger consisted of a plain steel rod without packing of any kind , and was ground and lapped to a very good fit in the cylinder .
The length of the plunger was about 12 cm .
and it was always arranged that at least 5 cm .
of its length was inside the cylinder during an experiment .
Compressibilities of Liquids at High Pressures .
The sleeve was approximately 7 cm .
in length and made a good sliding fit in the plunger , the tightness depending on the adjustment of the springs which pressed on the plunger , when in position , through slotted holes in the side of the sleeve .
The top of the small cylinder , the ends of the plunger and the ends of the sleeve , were all ground and lapped square with the axis of the cylinder .
The pressure vessel consisted of a strong steel tube 5 cm .
outside diameter and 2 cm .
bore , closed permanently at one end and provided at the other with a screwed plug for the admission of the apparatus and for connection to the pressure intensifier .
This vessel was supported in an oil bath , the temperature of which could be maintained to within C. The bath was fitted with a thermosyphon and a mechanical stirrer and the heat supply was regulated by a thermostat .
Measurements of the position of the plunger relative to the cylinder and sleeve were made by means of a depth micrometer .
It was usually arranged that the top of the plunger was either flush or just below the top of the sleeve when the zero position was measured .
After the application of the pressure , the sleeve was locked on the plunger before the new measurement was taken .
A perforated brass cup fitted over and protected the sleeve and plunger during the operations of immersion in and removal from the pressure vessel The accuracy of the determination of the volume of the cylinder with the plunger entered by a known distance is within cm .
The readings of the micrometer are probably accurate to about cm .
The diagrams on fig. 5 illustrate the method of experiment .
Results o.f Prdiminary Experiments Water.\mdash ; Distilled water , boiled to get rid of the dissolved air , was used .
The plunger of the apparatus was smeared with castor oil to ensure that there should be no leak of air into the cylinder , past the plunger , if the latter was slightly pulled out accidentally .
The first experiments were made without the use of the bath at a Mr. J. H. Hyde .
On the Viscosities and temperature of C. The room temperature been constant at C. for about one hour previous to the experiments being made .
The volume of the cylinder , with plunger and sleeve in position and with the top of the plunger flush with the top of the sleeve , was determined by calculation from the weight of the mercury content and found to be This volume was checked by calculation from the dimensions of the several parts .
The equivalent length of the cylinder , of uniform diameter , cm .
, with plunger and sleeve.in position at C. , was cm .
or The dimension is converted to inches because readings of the micrometer were in inches .
Tables and give the results obtained , which are compared with the results of Parsons and Cook for water under the same conditions , and it will be seen that very fair agreement exists between the results of the two investigations .
Table \mdash ; Compressibility of Water .
Room Temperature C. at C. These ] have been plotted and the following values of the compressibilities obtained:\mdash ; Compressibilities of Liquids at Iligh Pressures .
After the preliminary tests were made , the apparatus was slightly modified chiefly in the length of the cylinder and the arrangements for handling it , and the experiments were continued with the use of the constant temperature bath The equivalent length of the modified cylinder of umform diameter , 0.7685 cm .
, was inches at C. temperature .
As a check on the accuracy of the determinations of the compressibilities , a rod of steel of known volume could be introduced into the cylinder , reducing the internal volume by about 50 per cent. , and the experiments were made both with and without the steel rod in place .
In order to compare the two results obtained a small correction was made for the reduction in volume of the steel rod due to the pressure and for this correction the value of the compressibility of steel was taken as cub. cm .
per cubic centimetre per megabar .
The measurements of the steel rod were obtained in a measuring machine .
The results obtained with and without the introduction of the steel rod are given in Table VIII .
Table VIII .
Compressibility of Water at C. Comparison of Results obtained with and without the volume of the cylinder reduced by approximately 50 per cent. by the introduction into the cylinder of a steel rod of known dimensions .
Specific gravity of water at atmospheric pressure and C. taken as It will be seen on comparing the values of in the two series of experiments that there is very good agreement between them .
This indicates that errors due to the alteration in internal volume of the cylinder owing to the pressure are very small , as was expected from the method of experiment .
The accuracy of the determinations appear , therefore , to depend chiefly on Mr. J. H. Hyde .
On the Viscosities the accuracy with which the micrometer measurements can be made , and especially the initial measurement .
The latter depends in a great measure on the freedom of the liquid from air , and , in a lesser , on the fit of the plunger in cylinder .
The initial micrometer readings were always taken with the cylinder , plunger and sleeve suspended vertically in the bath , the tops of the latter just projecting above the bath liquid , in order that micrometer could be used .
The valve at the lower end of the cylinder was used in running out the excess of liquid when the plunger had been entered , in order that the initial ition of the latter could be adjusted .
By inverting the cylinder , the valve also served as a means of helping to get rid of any air which might have been trapped by the plunger , the air thus confined rising through the liquid in the cylinder and passing out through the valve with the excess liquid .
Experiments on the Oils.\mdash ; The results obtained are given in Tables IX to XII , the values of both the density and the compressibility being given for various pressures .
Curves of variation in density are given in fig. 6 , on which figure is also plotted for comparison the corresponding curve for water .
It will be seen that the rate of change of density with pressure is practically the same for all the liquids tested .
1 $ PCR SQlJARL lo Compressibilities of Liquids at High Pressures .
Table IX.\mdash ; Compressibility of various Lubricating Oils at C. Temp. Table X.\mdash ; Compressibility of various Lubricating Oils at C. Temp. Table XI.\mdash ; Compressibility of Victory Red Oil .
C. On the Viscosities and Compressibilities of Lriquids .
Table XII.\mdash ; Compressibility of Bayonne .
Temperature C. C. General Remarks on the Results of the Tests on Lribricating Oils .
The calculated values of the coefficient of absolute viscosity ( ) , obtained from the values of the kinematic viscosity and of the density ( ) , determined by experiment , are given in Tables I to IX .
The values of are shown plotted against the pressure in figs. 2 and 3 .
It will be noted that the scale of ordinates of is twenty times that of fig. 3 .
The curves show that the viscosity increases with pressure , and at an increasing rate as the pressure rises .
Extreme care in the measurement of the pressure had to be taken , especially in the cases of the mineral oils , in which , at pressures above 800 kgrm .
per square centimetre , the rate of change of viscosity with pressure is very great .
A better comparison between the results obtained is made by plotting the values of against the pressure , where is the ratio of the absolute viscosity under high pressure to the absolute value at atmospheric pressure .
The values of are given in the final columns of Tables I to IX , and are plotted in fig. 4 .
The curves of the latter figure show a difference between the fixed and the mineral oils .
The mineral oils vary considerably among themselves and generally have a high rate of increase in viscosity with pressure .
The fixed oils , however , do not greatly differ from each other and show an increase in viscosity at 1000 kgrm .
per square centimetre to approximately four times their values at atmospheric pressure , compared with anything between ten and twenty-five times the corresponding values for the mineral oils .
The experiments were carried out in the Engineering Department of the A Study of Catalytic Actions at Solid Surfaces .
National Physical Laboratory , and the whole of the apparatus was constructed in the workshops of the department .
In conclusion , the author desires to express his thanks to the Committee on Lubrication and Lubricants of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Besearch , and to Sir Richard Glazebrook and Dr. T. E. Stanton , for the interest taken in the progress of the work .
A Study of talytic Actions at Solid Surfaces.\mdash ; III .
The Hydrogenation of Acetaldehyde and the of Ethyl Alcohol in Presence of Finely-divided Metals .
By E. F. ARMSTRONG , D.Sc .
, F.I.C. , and T. P. HILDITCH , D.Sc .
, F.I.C. ( Communicated by Prof. H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S.\mdash ; Received March 2 , 1920 .
) Until recently , alcohol was always produced by fermenting saccharine materials ; acetic acid was obtained as a by-product in making charcoal ; acetone was prepared by heating calcium acetate .
During the war , both acetic acid and acetone were called for in quantities far larger than would be supplied by such methods ; alcohol was also in special demand in connection with the manufacture of cordite ; now it is coming into prominence as a possible motor fuel .
The effect has been to bring synthetic processes of preparing such compounds to the fore ; it is interesting that the methods introduced have nearly all been devised by French chemists .
As jar back as 1863 , Berthelot was able to show that ethylene obtained from alchohol could be reconverted into alcohol by absorbing the gas in sulphuric acid .
The direct synthesis of alcohol from inorganic materials was accomplished when he obtained acetylene by combining carbon with hydrogen at the temperature of the electric arc , as it was possible to hydrogenate acetylene to ethylene .
Berthelot was also the first to attempt the hydration of acetylene , effecting this by the action of sulphuric acid , followed by that of water .
Acetaldehyde and crotonic aldehyde were thus produced with other products .
Subsequently it was found that mercuric salts cause a rapid hydration of acetylene to aldehyde in presence of warm dilute sulphuric acid ; this discovery has rendered possible the more recent technical processes for manufacturing aldehyde from acetylene .

