VIII .
( " On the Spectrum of Brorsen 's Comet , 1868 .
" By WILLIAM HIUGGINs , F.R.S. Received May 14 , 1868 .
In January 1866 I communicated to the Royal Society the result of an examination of a small comet visible in the beginning of that year* .
I:Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xv .
p. 5 .
386 [ May 14 , examined the spectrum of another small and faint comet in May 1867 .
The spectra of these objects , as far as their very feeble light permitted them to be observed , appeared to be very similar .
In the case of each of these comets , the spectrum of the minute nucleus appeared to consist of a bright line between B and F , about the position of the double line of the spectrum of nitrogen , while the nebulosity surrounding the nucleus and forming the coma gave a spectrum which was apparently continuous .
Unfavourable weather prevented me from obtaining an observation of Brorsen 's comet , at its present reappearance , before April 29 .
Since that evening I have examined it on May 2 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 12 , 13. .
As I have not noticed any change in its spectrum during this time , I will put together the results of my observations on different nights , in order to avoid the repetition which would occur if the observations were arranged in the order in which they were made .
I tried various spectroscopes upon this object .
The best views of its spectrum were obtained with a spectroscope of the form already described in my former papers* , and furnished with one prism of very dispersive flint glass , with a refracting angle of 60 ? .
Some measures were taken with a similar spectroscope , with two prisms of 600 .
The comet appears in the telescope as a nearly round nebulosity , in which the light increases rapidly towards the centre , where on some occasions I detected , I believe , a small stellar nucleus .
Generally this minute nucleus was not to be distinguished from the bright central part of the comet .
iI So ca r. II'."sor Z71 , o iCoo 3Zo00.Z OO .
Xso eao 4.-tio 3 coo 9o , 1 -I , I 1Ir1 -I II suspected two or three bright points in the coma .
May 7 , I perceived a small extension of the faint surrounding nebulosity in a direction opposite to the sun , so as to form a short tail .
The spectrum of this comet consists for the most part of three bright bands .
The length of the bands in the instrument shows that they are not due alone to the stellar nucleus , but are produced by the light of the brighter portions of the coma .
I took some pains to learn the precise character of these luminous bands .
When the slit was wide they resembled the expanded lines seen in some gases ; for example , the line F in the spectrum of hydrogen at the atmospheric pressure .
As the slit was made narrow the two fainter bands , namely the one in the yellow and the one in the blue , appeared to fade out without becoming more defined .
I was unable to resolve these bands into lines .
In this respect they are very different from the bright lines of the nebulae , which become narrow as the slit is made narrow .
The middle band , which is so much brighter than the others that it may be considered to represent probably three-fourths , or nearly so , of the whole of the light which we receive from the comet , appears to possess similar characters .
In this nebulous band , however , I detected occasionally two bright lines , which appeared to be shorter than the band , and may be due to the nucleus itself .
This suspicion seems to be strengthened by the circumstance that when by moving the telescope the image of the comet was made to pass before the slit , these brighter lines were only observed when the middle of the comet was upon the slit , while the nebulous band continued as long as any part of the comet , except its extreme margin , was upon the slit .
Besides these three bright bands there was a very faint continuous spectrum .
This spectrum is omitted in the diagram , as it could scarcely be represented without making it appear too strong relatively to the bright bands .
The position in the spectrum of the bands was determined by micrometrical measures , and also by simultaneous comparison , of the bands with the bright lines of magnesium , sodium , hydrogen , and nitrogen .
The brightest band , which is in the green part of the spectrum , is nearly in the position of the brightest line of the nebulae , which coincides with the double line of the spectrum of nitrogen ; but , as the diagram shows , the band in the comet is in a small degree less refrangible than the line of nitrogen .
This difference of refrangibility cannot be attributed to the comet 's motion , since at the time the observations were made the comet was approaching the earth .
The band in the blue is considerably more refrangible than F , and is nearly as refrangible as the group of bright lines in the air-spectrum , which have the numbers 2642 , 2669 in the map and tables of my paper " On the Spectra of the Chemical Elements " * .
The least refrangible of the bands occurs in the yellow part of the spectrum , at about the distance from E of one-third of the interval which separates E from D. The spectrum of this comet resembles the diagram given by Donati of the spectrum of Comet I. , 1864* .
The positions of the three bands seen by him appear to agree with those which the bright bands of this comet occupy .
This comet ciffers remarkably from the two small comets which I examined in the much smaller relative proportion of the light which forms a continuous spectrum .
In Brorsen 's comet , as it now appears , the bright middle part of the nebulosity seems to have a constitution analogous at least to that of the nucleus , and to be self-luminous ; in the other comets the coma , which surrounded a distinctly marked nucleus , gave a continuous spectrum .
The three comets resemble each other in the circumstance that the light of the bright central part was emitted by the cometary matter , while the surrounding nebulosity reflected solar light .
The telescopic observations of the heads of Donati 's comet and of other large comets have shown that the iuminous material is not at once driven off into the outer portions of the coma and the tail , but usually forms in front of the nucleus a dense luminous cloud , which for a time seems to be identical in the character of its light with that of the nucleus .
It is , I believe , the outer portions only of the coma , which are frequently separated by dark spaces from the nucleus , and the tail , which the polariscope has shown to shine by reflected light .
The positions of the bands in this comet would seem to indicate a chemical constitution different from that of the nebule , which give a spectrum of bright lines .
It will be seen in the diagram that , though the brightest of the bands in the spectrum of the comet differs but little in position from the brightest line of the nebul-e , the other bands are found in parts of the spectrum widely removed from those in which the other lines of the nebula occur .
The suggestion presents itself whether the broad , nebulous bands may not indicate conditions of temperature and molecular state different from those which occur in the gaseous nebulae .
Pliicker has shown that nitrogen and some other substances give totally different spectra , under different conditions of temperature and tension .
The spectrum of this comet , however , does not resemble the other spectrum of nitrogen , which Pliicker distinguishes as the spectrum of the first ordert .

