I. " On the Growth of Land Shells .
" By E. J. LoWE , Esq. , F.G.S. , F.R.A.S. &amp;c. Communicated by HENRY LAWSON , Esq. , F.R.S. Received February 18 , 1854 .
Perhaps the following observations on the growth of land shells may contain sufficient information to prove interesting to the Royal Society .
Before describing them , however , a few introductory remarks will be necessary .
Every individual experimented upon has been kept in confinement since the day it was hatched .
Each species has been placed in a separate box ( filled with soil to the depth of three inches ) , and care has been taken to feed the Alollusca every other day , the food chiefly consisting of the leaves of the lettuce and cabbage .
In very dry weather the soil has been moistened with rain-water about once a week ; in that box containing Helix pomatia small lumps of chalk have been mixed with the soil .
The species experimented upon were : Helix aspersa Zonites cellarius caperata lucidus hispida nitidulus nemoralis radiatulus pomatia Bulimus obscurus rotundata Clausilia nigricans virgata Pupa umbilicata The facts arrived at are,1st .
The shells of Helicidae increase but little for a considerable period , never arriving at maturity before the animal has once become dormant .
2nd .
Shells do not grow whilst the animal itself remains dormant .
3rd .
The growth of shells is very rapid when it does take place .
4th .
Most species bury themselves in the ground to increase the dimensions of their shells .
First Experiment with Helix pomatia .
A specimen of this species having deposited thirteen eggs which were hatched during the first week of August 1852 , six of the young ones were deposited in a box ( having a lace cover ) placed in the shade .
The young Helices were regularly fed every other day until the beginning of December , when they buried themselves in the soil for winter ; up to this period they had gradually increased in dimensions to the size of Helix hispida .
From December until April the soil was kept dry , the box being placed in the cellar .
On the 1st of April they were replaced in the garden , the soil having previously been copiously watered .
On the 3rd of April the young ones appeared on the surface , being no larger in size than they were in December , and although regularly fed up to the 20th of June they scarcely increased , not being perceptibly larger in size than they were in December .
However , on the 20th of June five of them disappeared , having buried themselves ( with the mouth of the shell downwards ) in the soil ; on the 30th of June they reappeared , having in ten days grown so rapidly as at this time to become equal in size to Helix pisana .
They again buried themselves on the 15th of July and reappeared on the 1st of August , having again increased in size .
From this date they did not apparently become any larger , and on the 2nd of November food was withheld for the winter , and at the present time ( February 14th ) they are in a dormant state .
Probably they will arrive at maturity by July or August next .
The sixth specimen did not bury itself until the 15th of August .
Second Experiment with Helix aspersa .
A pair of Helix aspersa having been procured in the act of copulation on the 19th of May 1852 , they were placed in confinement .
Each individual deposited about 70 eggs , which began to hatch on the 20th of June : these young ones grew but little during the summer .
They buried themselves in the soil on the 10th of October , coming again to the surface on the 5th of April , not having grown during the winter .
In May they buried themselves ( with their heads downwards as with Helix pomatia , in winter they and other species buried themselves with the head upwards ) , appearing again in a week double the size ; this process was carried on at about fortnightly intervals until July the 18th , when they were almost fully grown .
It is worthy of remark that this species , as well as Helix pomatia and Helix nemoralis , and probably other of the Helicae , form an operculum at the aperture , after which they retire considerably within the shell , and form a second ( much thinner ) , behind which they rest during the winter .
It would be swelling this paper too much to describe all the observations in full ; it will perhaps therefore be considered sufficient to remark that the process of growth within the ground takes place with Helix nemoralis , Helix virgata , Felix caperata , and Helix hispida .
Helix rotundata burrows into decayed wood to increase the size of its shell .
Zonites radiatulus appears to remain on decaying blades of grass ; whilst Pupa umbilicata , Clausilia nigricans and Bulimus obscurus bury their heads only to increase their shells .
With respect to Zonites cellarius , Zonites lucidus , and Zonites nitidulus , it was not satisfactorily ascertained whether their heads were buried during the process of growth .
E. J. LOWE .
Observatory , Beeston , 1854 , February 14th .

