Presents .
1881 .
] 1 , w , ire ' Adams ( A. Leith ) , m Monograph on the uliants .
4to .
London lool .
Bowman ( F. H. ) The Structure of the Cotton llbr'T\#174 ; eV'Ati^ " ; Brunfont^Lander ) , F.R.S. The Bible and Science , 8vo .
Won CookedJosiah Parsons ) Chemical and Physical Researches .
8vo .
Cambridge 1881 .
The Author , per Professor Williamson , F.R.b. Cremona ( Luigi ) et E. Beltrami .
Collectanea Matliematica .
In Memoriam Dominici Chelini .
8vo .
Mediolani 1881 .
L. Cremona , Eor .
Mem. Royal Society .
Duncan ( P. MO , F.R.S. Cassell 's Matnial History^ Vto .
London lool .
, T7T A , Frederick the Great .
Politische Correspondenz .
Band VI .
4to .
Berlin 1881 .
The Berlin Academy .
Gill 1 David ) A Determination of the Solar Parallax .
4to .
London The Author .
Moore ( F. ) The Lepidoptera of Ceylon .
Part 3 .
4to .
London 1881 .
The Government of Ceylon , per the Crown Agents .
December 8 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents :\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Sir Risdon Bennett .
Dr. Hirst .
Professor Huxley , Professor Roscoe .
Dr. Alexander Macalister and Mr. Bernhard Samuelson were admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordeied foi them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; VOL. XXXIII .
Dr. W. A. Herdman .
[ Dec. 8 .
I. " On the Genus Culeolus " By W. A. Herdman , D.Sc .
, F.L.S. , F.R.S.E. , Demonstrator of Zoology m the University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Professor Sir Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. Received November 1 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The genus Culeolus has been formed for a series of six new species of pedunculated Simple Ascidians , belonging to the family Cynthiidse , and having several anatomical peculiarities distinguishing them from all hitherto described genera .
The nearest ally of Culeolus is and these two genera have been placed together as a sub-family , the-Bolteninse , characterised as Cynthiidee which have the body pedunculated , the tentacles compound , and the branchial sac with more than four folds on each side .
Culeolus is distinguished from Boltenia by its remarkable branchial sac ( which will be described shortly ) , and by the external character-that its branchial aperture is triangular , and its atrial aperture bilabiate , while in Boltenia both apertures are four-lobed .
One of the species , Culeolus murrayi , is described in detail\#151 ; anatomical and histological while the other five are not so fully treated , but the different systems in each are compared with those of the type , and the modifications are pointed out .
The following are a few of the more interesting peculiarities of the genus:\#151 ; As regards the test , the disposition of the blood-vessels is the most important feature .
In Culeolus murra , throughout the greater part of the test , blood-vessels are few and feebly developed .
In the superficial layer , however , the terminal twigs open into an enormously developed system of globular cavities , separated by extremely thin walls from the external medium , and in direct connexion with the delicate hollow papillae projecting from the outer surface of the test .
The globular eavities and their prolongations , the papillae , contain masses of blood-corpuscles , and there can be little doubt that the whole system acts , to a certain extent , as an accessory organ of respiration .
In another species , C. , the vessels are much more developed throughout the thickness of the test , while the number of globular cavities in the superficial layer is very small .
The terminal twigs of the vessels , however , are prolonged beyond the general surface in the form of a series of delicate and minute finger-like processes , which , over some parts of the surface , are present in great numbers .
These are evidently a modification of the large papilhe of C. murrayi , and both are homologous with the long hair-like processes lound on the outer surface of the test in most of the Molgulidse .
The branchial sac is the most characteristic organ of the genus , and j On the Genus Culeolus .
105 is of great morphological interest .
As it belongs to the Cyntliiad type it is necessarily so far complicated as to possess a certain number of longitudinal folds on each side , but in all other respects it is the simplest form of branchial sac known among Simple Ascidians .
Neglecting for the moment the longitudinal folds , the organ may be described as\amp ; a simple network , formed by two series of vessels crossing at right angles and communicating at the points of intersection .
The two series are the horizontal or transverse vessels , which are sometimes of two or more sizes occurring alternately , and the internal longitudinal bars which run vertically and generally form the strongest part of the network .
This is the structure of the branchial sac between two folds in the simplest form , Guleolus and the great difference between it and the simplest form of branchial sac in the genus Ascidia ( e.g. , A. cylindracea or venosa , where minute longitudinal plication of the sac is not present ) lies in the fact that in Culeolus no fine longitudinal vessels are present , and consequently the meshes are not broken up into stigmata .
In two of the species , however , here and there over the branohial sac , a mesh was found divided more or less irregularly by a delicate longitudinal vessel crossing from one transverse vessel to the adjacent one .
These cases were rare , and evidently abnormalities , but they indicate a tendency towards the division of the mesh into stigmata through the development of fine longitudinal vessels .
In Culeolus perlucidus this process has taken place .
Here each mesh is divided into two equal areas by a delicate longitudinal vessel running between the transverse vessels .
In this species , consequently , one might correctly describe the branchial sac as having two stigmata in each mesh .
Along the free edges of the internal longitudinal bars the epithelium is cubical or low columnar , but never ciliated .
One peculiarity of the branchial sac throughout the genus remains to be mentioned .
That is the presence in its vessels of an extensively developed system of calcareous spicules .
These are of considerable size , often much ramified , and have a very characteristic appearance from their gentle curves and blunt ends .
They vary in size , abundance , and amount of branching according to the species ; and are chiefly developed in the internal longitudinal bars , and along the edges of the endostyle .
The dorsal lamina throughout the genus is represented by a series of triangular languets .
The alimentary canal from the oesophageal opening onwards , though differing somewhat in its details in the different species , has in all the same general course .
It lies on the left side of the branchial sac , in its posterior half , and nearer to the ventral than the dorsal edge .
The oesophageal aperture ( o .a .
) Iie3 far back in the branchial sac , at the posterior end of the dorsal lamina ( d.l. ) The oesophagus is short , and runs ventrally to open into the large stomach ( s.t. ) which lies 106 Dr. W. A. Herdman .
O the Genus Culeolus .
[ Dec. 8 , along the ventral edge of the branchial sac .
The intestine runs anteriorly from the stomach for a certain distance , and then , turning towards the dorsal region , returns parallel to its first part towards the posterior end , and finally terminates near the posteriorly placed atrial aperture ( At ) .
Ascidia .
Culeolus .
The annexed diagrams show the relation of the course of the intestine in Culeolus to the arrangement found in Ascidia .
The chief difference is that in the latter genus the intestine , after running posteriorly for a short distance , takes a final curve anteriorly , thus making a second loop ( 2 ) , open anteriorly , which is entirely wanting in Culeolus .
The cause of the difference is obviously the position of the atrial aperture ( At .
) This lies in Culeolus almost at the posterior end of the body , and consequently the last part of the intestine runs posteriorly .
In , on the other hand , the atrial aperture is usually situated near the .
anterior extremity , therefore the intestine is necessarily twisted for-\wards again so that it may terminate near the common excretory aperture .
All the species of Culeolus are from upwards of 600 fathoms ; five ate from over 1,000 fathoms , four from over 1,500 , and two from upwards of 2,000 fathoms .
They all belong to the abyssal fauna .
It is noteworthy that these six species , the only deep-water Bol-teninas , all belong to one genus , notwithstanding their wide distribution in space\#151 ; one species being from the North Atlantic , two from the Southern Ocean , one from the South Pacific , one from the North Pacific , and one from the centre of the Pacific Ocean on the Equator .

