Experiments and Considerations about the POROSITY of BODIES , in two Essays by the Honourable Robert Boyle Esq ; Fellow of the Royal Society Lond. in 8~ 1684 .
THe Honourable Author , continuing his endeavours to establish a solid and rational Philosophy , does in this book discourse of the small Pores of Bodies , a subject of very great importance towards an intelligible account of Occult Qualities .
The Book consisting of two Essays , the former of them treats of the Porousness of Animal Bodies , and shows that the parts of Animals ( especially whilst these are alive ) are furnished with numerous pores ; which is deduced from the Frame or Constitution , of the stable parts of the bodies of Animals ; From the nature of nutrition in Animals ; for that requires , that the body abound with Pores , into which congruous particles may be admitted , for the natural increase of the part .
From the great plenty of matter daily carried off by sweat , and insensible transpiration ; by which , and several other arguments , he proves the porousness of the Skin ; he proves the same thing in the membranes , that invest the internal parts ; in the urinary bladders of dead animals ; and in the Films that line the shells of Eggs .
From the entrance of Effluvia into Animals ; evident from the operation ofsome plaisters , and vegetable ointments ; from the effects of Pericarpia , or wrist-bands ; and from Cantharides used in blistering plaisters ; and effecting the urinary passages even before the skin of the blister is broke : And these Effluvia may be barely Fumes .
Thus the Fumes of the permeating Menstruum have ting 'd a piece of silver coin through a moistened urinary bladder der ; and a medicated liquor , injected into the thorax of a Person of Quality , gave him the taste and smell of the drugs , wherewith the liquor had been impregnated .
From the bringing off the matter of an Apites by seige , or urine : From the staining Ivory Purple with a solution of Gold in Aqua Regia ; blackish with silver , and bluish with copper , dissolved in Aq .
Fortis .
For proving the Po~osity of Bones , he urges their specific Levity ; that Blood vessels pass them ; that they imbibe exhalations from the Air , and emit them again ( as appears from the weighing bones at several seasons of the year ; ) and that Mercury has been found in the bones of some persons , who have taken of it .
The other Essay is concerning the porou~ness of solid bodies , which the Author proves , first a priori , from the Origin , and Formation of divers hard bodies ; from the great disparity that may be found in the specific gravities of such bodies , as the Eye does not perceive to be Porous ; from the frame , and constitution of solid bodies ; for even they consist of particles which cannot be supposed to touch one another so exactly , as not to leave any Pore between them .
Secondly a posteriori , from some experiments , and observations , arguing the Porousness of wood , Earthen vessels , stones , metals , and even glass it self , concerning which last the Author says , First , it is very probable that Glass may be pierced into , to some distance , even by visible and tangible bodies .
Secondly , common Glass is not ordinarily permeable by Chemical liquors , tho strong and subtle , nor by the directly visible , or odorable expirations of Bodies , tho absolutely speaking it be pervious to some corporeal substances .
Joh. Dolaei M. D. Consiliarii ac Archiatri Hasso-Cassellani ENCYCLOPAEDIA MEDICINAE THEORETICO-PRACTICAE , &amp;c. Francofurti ad Maenum An. 1684 .
4~ .
The account of this book will best begin with the division of it into its six parts : The first treats of the diseases of the head ; the second , of those of the Thorax ; the third , of those of the Abdomen ; the fourth , of Feavors ; the fifth , of those incident to Women ; the sixth and last , of those of Infants and Children .
This Author justifies the title he gives his book by accounting for diseases both as to their causes , and cure , according to the opinions of all Physicians both ancient and modern ; particularly of those who have given name to a Sect. He begins with the Galenists , whose opinions he faithfully relates : after them come Paracelsus , Helmont , Willis , Sylvius and Cartesius , whose natural philosophy hath laied the foundation of a party , though he himself was no Physician .
Having related these opinions as an Historian , ( for he does not argue either for or against ) he adds his own theory &amp; practice .
The Anima Brutorum with him is called Microcosmeter , which presides over the whole body ; the other subordinate faculties , have their distinct names given them , and are described as Vice-royes residing in the principal viscera as in Provinces : Cardimelech in the heart ; Gasteranax in the stomach , and so of the rest .
In relation to these he describes the diseases in terms altogether political , and conformable to the general Metaphor of his Hypothesis .
His Practice is mostly Chemical , and seems to be carefully chosen ; in which he gives a great deference to Ettmuller and Sydenham .
He seems much inclined to transfusion , and injection of medical liquors into veins , and quotes his own experience for it , in madness and some other diseases of the brain .
And that there might be nothing wanting to his Encyclopaedia , at the latter end of each chapter , he has collected Empirical remedies out of diverse Authors .
Disquisitio de Magia divinatrice &amp; operatrice &amp;c. Auctore Francisco Moncaeio 4~ F. ~ &amp; Lipsiae 1683 .
IN the General handling of Magic , he gives the several divisions Authors have made use of , different according to the divers conceptions they had of its parts .
He makes it first , either Humane , or Diabolical with their respective Species .
Secondly , Natural , or Transnatural , under which last he comprehends the Transmutation of metalls ; under Natural come all the surprising effects of Art , such as Artificial fires , malleable glass , incombustible linen , cures of Diseases by magnetism or Transplantation , Strange effects in Chemistry , and Mathematicks~ &amp;c. After this general account , follow 's a very particular enumeration of its species to the number of about Sixty nine , alphabetically placed , together with the Authors that treat of them ; out of all which the Author singles Alectryomancy for the subject of this book .
He thinks that the strange antipathy ( if true ) between a cock and Lion may be accounted for , either from the disproportion of the sound to the Lions ear , as the grating of knives upon stone is unpleasant to us ; or as the noise of bells , or singing , sets dogs an howling : or because in Africa there are no cocks , or lastly , because though in other countries , as in Thessaly and Macedonia there are cocks , yet they never crow .
The Auguries taken from the crowing of cocks , according to him , depend chiefly on the time , whether it happen before noon or after , and accordingly portend either good or bad success ; to which some add the sign of the zodiac , and the motion of the Moon .
Taking notice of Plato 's definition of a Man , till the Cynicks real animal , spoiled the philosopher 's Idea , he gives an account out of Dan : Major , of the head of an old man with a Turbant on , which directly looked on , appears such , but if you turn it on one side , it gives you the shape of a Cock .
From this presciene of birds he takes occasion to discourse about the winter quarters of the Storks , whether or no they go to , and come from distant regions as the seasons of the year require , and that so exactly ( as some assert ) as to observe the latitude of places , and the precession of the Equinoctial points .
But having confuted this opinion by the inequality of their appearance , several instances of which he gives ; concludes they do not fly to warmer climates , but , like other animals , both birds and beasts , come from hidden places in the same county , where during the cold they lye asleep .
And afterwards gives as many reasons for it , as there are letters in Hibernaculum Ciconiarum , and that too in the Acrostick way , each sentence beginning with a letter of those words , according to their order .
Then he mentions some other observation concerning them , viz : that they will not build upon a~ house ; that they have been seen industrious in quenching fires by taking water up in their bills , and emptying them into the flames &amp;c. together with some guesses how Swallows , and other birds which disappear in winter , doe live .
He gives the original of the names of some families , and people , particularly of the Gauls , who , he is willing to think , were called so , from some good or bad property of this bird , and tells out of Petrus Gregorius and Merkerus that on the outside of the brain of a Cock , Lillies are drawn , or imagined to be drawn , always one , and sometimes to the number of three .
The original of the Cock on towers he deduces from the Goth 's , they making use of it much , both as an Emblem of vigilance in peace , and of courage in war , some people are reported to have used them as clocks , they being supposed to crow every third hour , and when they are irregular , then they foretell change of weather .
He gives an account particularly of that sort of Alectryomancy which cost so many men their lives , under the Emperor Valens , whose names began with ~EO~ , those letters the Cock having pitched upon , for the Initials of the name of his successor .
From the consideration of the Cocks being moved thus by enchantment , he takes occasion to discourse of all sorts of motions which he reckons up to the number of 19 .
Beginning with Artificial motion , here he considers the astrologers opinion of what we call Freewill , how it is mechanically caused by the unequal motion of the stars , rather than from any determination from within ; as also Cartesius his mechanical animal , Coskinomancy also , and all other sorts of Legerdemain .
Under the Motus Belialis comes the Incubus , together with the manner of driving it away ; as all sorts of Apparitions , and the Imaginary journeys of witches .
So under his sympathetic motion he comprehends the Divining wand , the Remora , the Torpedo and the Helictrope : and after all , his accounts of the various sorts of unlawful motions , he asks this question , viz : what excuse the pretenders to these superstitions can make ; and reckons up their answers according to the order and number of the letters , in Praestigiarum Satanae excusatio , all which he confutes .
Under the internal force of words , is comprehended the Cabala with all sorts of Signatures and Talisman 's , as also the art of resolving Questions by mixing the twenty four letters ; and explaining doubts by verses of Ovid and Uirgil , &amp;c. As likewise some account of that natural language Adam was supposed to have had , by the very elocution of which alone , he exercised the dominion nion over the rest of the Creation .
How Bears in Norway are called out of their dens by bad language : of breaking open doors by the word hephatha , the force of Music &amp;c. And ends , with reflections on a discourse of Marcus Marci in his philosophia restituta , wherein is endeavoured to be proved , that all effects how surprising soever , are merely natural .
OXFOR D , Printed at the THEATER , and are to be sold by Moses Pitt , at the Angel , and Samuel Smith , at the Princes Arms in St , Paul 's Church-yard LONDON .
1684 .

