]\gt ; VL Repulsion produced by Currents .
G. T. , B. Sc. , Fellow of Trinity College , mbridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON .
Received NovembeI 5 , \mdash ; Read December 10 , 1891 .
IN the 'Electrical World , ' May , 1887 , p. 258 , or the 'Electrical Engineer ' ( New York ) , June , 1887 , p. 211 , " " Novel Phenomena of Alternating Currents may be seen an account of some experiments by Professor ELIHU THOMSON on the mechanical force between conductors in which alternating currents are circulating .
In the case of a ring of metal in the presence of an electromagnet , in the coils of which an alternating current is passing , a force of repulsion is experienced by the ring , and this may be accounted for in the words of Professor THOMSON as follows:\mdash ; " " It may be stated as certainly true that were the induced currents in the closed conductor unaffected by any self-induction , the only phenomena exhibited would be 1 alternate equal attractions and repulsions , because currents would be induced in opposite directions to that of the primary current when the latter current was changing from zero to maximum positive or negative current , so producing repulsion ; and would be induced in the same direction when -changing from maximum positive or negative to zero , so producing attl.actions.\ldquo ; This may be illustrated by fig. 1 .
Here the strong line represents the primary and Fig. 1 .
the thin line the secondary , while of the dotted line any ordinate is the product of the ordinates of the lines representing the intensities of the rents and , hence , represents the mechanical force of attraction or repulsion .
2.7.92 this difference of effective period , is the fact that , during the period of repulsion , both the induced and inducing currents have their greatest values , while , during the period of attraction , the currents are of small amounts comparatively .
There is then a repulsion due to the effects of strong opposite , for a lengthenel period against an attraction due to the summative effects of currents of the same ection during a.shortened period , the resultant effect being a greatly preponderating repulsion The diagram for this is given in fig. 2 .
Fig. 2 .
PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
281 : This repulsion may easily be taken advantage of by using it as the basis of a meter alternating currents .
If the coils consist of two circles of radii and ( the former the greater ) , with their centres coincident and planes making an angle , and we send a current I through the larger , there will be a couple tending to increase the angle This has been proved experimentally by Professor THOMSON : its amount proves to be The positions and are positions of equilibrium , the fornler being unstable and the latter stable .
By making the plane of the primary vertical and suspending the secondary inside so as to be capable of turning round a vertical axis by means of bifilar suspension with as position of equilibrium , the deflection , when the alternating current is passing , will give the intensity of current .
We might also get the intensity by suspending the secondary by a single thread and observing the time of a small oscillation about If the moment of inertia of the secondary about the vertical be it is not difficult to show that the number of oscillations per second is I Professor ELIHU THOMSON has devised other interesting experiments of which the following is an example:\mdash ; A sheet of copper is placed so as to half cover an alternating magnetic pole .
Upon this , near the pole , is laid a hollow sphere of copper .
The electromagnetic action produces a couple so powerful that the friction of rotation is overcome and the sphere is spun round .
The mathematical analysis for this case being complicated I have evaluated the couples called into action in various combinations of ] spherical and cylindrical shells .
It is a known fact that in a spherical conductor no external field can give rise to induced currents that do not circulate in concentric spherical shells .
After a theorem to the effect that there are no other families of surfaces which possess similar properties , the case has been considered of an infinitely long , thin , .
circular cylindrical shell in a field consisting of alternating currents parallel to its axis .
If the electrokinetic momentum of the primary field be expanded in harmonics over the cylinder , it turns out that if all the terms of each harmonic have the same phase , alternating current in a long parallel wire .
If the current in the wire be I , and be the resistances ( across unit length of the surface ) and the radii of the shells , while are their distances from the wire , from one another , and of the wire from the pJan e containing the two axes , the couple on the shell is in bhe direction represented in fig. 3 , of amount where In this case the couples on the two shells are , considering only the most important term , of equal magnitudes and of opposite signs .
If a second wire conveying a current of strength \mdash ; I pt be laid close to that already present , we obtain in effect a filament periodically magnetised in a direction Fig. 4 .
perpendicular to its length .
Let this direction make with the plane containing the axes .
Then , if ( the line of length d ) subtend at the magnet , the couple on shell is PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
, / where A pt is the intensity of the magnet and terms of the eighth degree in the radii are omitted .
Thus , to this order of approximation , we have the following results:\mdash ; The couples exerted are independent of , i.e. , of the direction of the axis of the electromagnet .
The shells have equal couples in opposite directions , the parts of the ] directed towards one another being attracted towards the electromagnet if 4 ) is less than a right angle , and driven away if exceeds a angle .
Fig. 6 .
If be a right angle the couple is zero .
We next discuss the case of a thin spherical shell in any field and show that\mdash ; If the field be symmetrical round any diameter , there will be no couple about that diameter .
If the external field be completely in the same phase , or if , when the external magnetic potential is expanded in harmonics over the the terms of the harmonic of any degree are in phases that are the same for the same degree , then the coupk , will vanish .
From this it follows that if the primary field be in the same has throughout , and any number of perfectly conducting bodies be introduced , their currents will be in the same phase as the primary field , and no couple will be produced .
It has been stated that in the case of Professor ELlHU THOMSON'S sphere , spinning on a sheet of copper , the effect was due to the sheet acting as a ' shield\ldquo ; and producing an unsymmetrica ] field .
That this explanation is not satisfactory will be evident on considering that the field is unsymmetrical before the sheet is interposed , and that the better the sheet conducts the better the shielding effect ; so that if it be a perfect conductor a large couple would be expected whereas in reality there is none whatever .
The effect must , I think , be traced to the fact that the currents induced in the sheet are caused by ] -induction to lag , so that the field in action on the sohere does not alternate in one phase .
If the line joining the centres of the spheres be taken as OX , and the axis OY be the shortest distance between OX and the wire ( the last two lines being taken perpendicular to one another ) , then calling the distances of the centres of the spheres from the origin , and their radii ( as with the cylinders ) , we have as the first terms of the couples upon the and the shells\mdash ; and and I , and have the same meanings as before .
If we write for the couples are Hence If or vanish , the couples vanish , as might be expected .
The slgns of the couples fall into three cases : \mdash ; When ositivePRODUCED andBY greater tALTERNATING both cCTRIC C Fig. 8 .
Fig. 9 .
( ii .
) When is numerically less than , the couple is positive and the negative .
Fig. 10 .
( iii .
) When is negative and numerically greater than , both couples are negative .
Fig. 11 .
Fig. If we place another wire by ths side of that eady ition , and thus make a filament alternately netised in a direction perpendicular to its length .
and aking an angle with OX ( as with the cylinder ) , then the oouple on the sphere and on the sphere where is the netic moment of unit length .
To this order then If the couples on the shells be equal and opposite , or The couples will not vanish when and unless , in addition , or In this case considerations of symmetry would give right results .
an example , take and the couples will be the upper referring to the shell .
The sign of the bracket will be when \mdash ; , , or Fig. Fig. 14 .
S. In confirmation it be noticed that when , when the spheres equidistant from the origin ) , nd is zero or a right a1lgle , the couples are equdl and opposite .
PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
Their magnitudes are and are negative and positive on the and shells as lon as the former is to :the right of the latter .
We now consider the couples on two spherical shells in the presence of a mngnetic pole of strength pt .
We take the same axes as before with the magnetic pole at .
The couple on the shel ] proves to be and that on the shell Hence The couples vanish , as they should , when , or , or When and , the fignre is to the plane YOZ , and the couples are equal and opposite : that on the shell to the right is positive .
For other ca@es the discussion is similar to that for the cylinders with parallel current ) ( ii .
) When is numerically less than , the signs are , - .
Fig. 20 .
( iii .
) When is negative and numerically greater than , the couples are both positive .
Fig. 21 .
Fig. 22 .
If we take two spherical shells in the presence of a small magnet of moment pt , whose axis cuts the the centres of the spheres at angle , we find for the couple on the shell where is Wl'itben for For the other she]l , we interchange 7 and For the couples to be equal and opposite when , we must have .
When , the couple is positive for both values of , and when , it is negative .
Fig. 24 , We now take as an example and the couple is negative from to about , positive thence to and negative to The \fnof ; mC couple is negative from to , positive thence to and negative to In fig. 26 , ; in fig. 27 , Fig. 26 .
In fig. 28 , ; in fig. 29 , For general principles I have derived assistance from the paper by Professor NIVEN , in the 'Philosophical Transactions ' of 1881 , " " On the Induction of Electric Currents in Infinite Plates and Spherical Shells The Effects of the Currents Induced in One Coil by those in Another .
1 .
Adopting MAXWELL'S notation and taking , as the currents in the two circuits , we have If and be the resistance of the primary and secondary circuits , and the current in the former be I pt , then for the second circuit whence pt , where Thus the " " lag\ldquo ; due to self-induction in the secondary coil is , and the electromagnetic force tending to increase a coordinate is the mean value of which is If the coils consist of circular wires of radii A and , and their planes be perpendicular to tlJe line of lengtb that.ions their centres , then MAXWELL shows ( S701 ) that PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
where and and are complete elliptic integrals to modulus Also so that the repulsion is If the coils consist of two circles of radii and ( the former the greater ) with their centres coincident and planes inclined , we have from MAXWELL ( S697 ) , ( ) where must now be odd .
The couple tending to increase is or or 2 .
In the course of the following work it will often be necessary to know what kind of distribution of electric currents is likely to be set up in conductors of various shapes on the introduction of external fields : it is known that in a sphere no external field can give rise to currents that do not circulate in concentric spherical surfaces , and it The question may be stated follows:\mdash ; Given a system of orthogonal surfaces , constant , constant , constant , and a uniform conductor whose bounding surface has constant , what is the condition that , whatever be the nature of the external field , the induced currents may lie in the surfaces .
If the length of the line .
the consecutive points , and be given by and if denote the components of electric current , of magnetic force , and of electromagnetic momentum along the normaIs to the three orthogonal surfaces through any point , then MAXWELL'S equations of electric currents become , and if there be no magnetisable matter in the conductor , are components of magnetic induction , and are given by ( BG ) , with two similar equations .
If denote the specific resistance of the conductor , and the electrostatic potential , then within the conductor we have ( it being at rest ) with two similar equations .
PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
293 Remembering that the surface has constant over it , we have as the surface condition ( Professor C. NIVEN , ' Phil. Trans 1881 , p. 31.3 ) the normal outwards being in the direction of increasing : and ( from the same source ) within the conductor Hence being known , is uniquely determined MAXWELL , .
Let us write , and then our equations are typified by ( CH ' ) ( BG ' ) If now the conductor be such that no external field can give rise to currents normal to surfaces , then for all values of consistent with at the surface , and ( ABH ' ) * within the conductor , must everywhere vanish ; that is , inside , .
Now is everywhere zero before the external field is brought into existence , hence by the former equation ( l ) it is everywhere zero permanently .
and this is to hold for all values of consistent with ( ABH ' ) This condition is replaced by taking CAG ' ABH ' and the former relation becomes or therefore Now being arbitrary the coefficients of \amp ; c. must vanish , therefore function of ( or constant ) .
( ii .
) , and function of ( or constant ) ( iii .
) .
On differentiation , the relation becomes .
Therefore Therefore PRODUCED By ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
295 Hence is a function of only .
Also it was proved that function of ( or constant ) .
Therefore function of ( or constant ) .
This , as well as the last condition ( iii .
) , is satisfied by function of Geometrically this means that the normal distance between and is everywhere the same , i.e. , that the surfaces are parallel .
Now the radius of curvature of the normal section of constant along the normal to is given by and so too Hence , if is independent i.e. , the two curvatures at each point of an surface are equal .
Thus , the property in question is satisfied by a sphere , and only by a sphere or spherical shell , including , as a special case , a plane slab infinite in both directions .
The Effect of Currents set up in Thin Cylindric Shell of Infinite Length .
3 .
We consider the case of a periodic field consisting of currents parallel to the axis of the shell .
In this case the surface condition informs us that since there is no normal com(ponent of electromagnetic momentum , there ] be no electrostatic potential ; also , if the axis of the cylinder be taken as the axis of cylindric coordinates , we have .
( iv .
) , where is the momentum due to the external field and that due to the induced currents , while and represent the resistance and current aoross unit length of the surface .
Consider at the surface of the shell , let the induced currents give rise to momentum at the surface of Since is the potential of a ion on the cylinder of imaginary matter of surface density , we have On substituting in we see that .
Therefore Therefore Hence corresponding to a term On differentiating with respect to , we see that if pt , then On separating real and imaginary parts , it is clear that wheu pt pt , - .
( v ) , 1 and H. 4 .
We now proceed to find the components of magnetic force .
When there is no magnetic matter ( as we assume to be the case ) the equations in cylindricals connecting with , are With the distribution that we have chosen , , and hence When the value of at the surface is pt , then just outside , pt , so that just outside , .
Now when we consider the mechanical effects , since , on theory the mechanical effects of two elements of currents upon each other are equal and oppositely directed in the straight line joining them , the field , due to the induced currents , Doccxcu .
will fake the components of induction due to the external system .
The components of electromagnetic force along S , S , are and hence the mechanical force on the shell , parallel to the initial line from which is measured , is ( per unit length ) .
The force in perpendicular direction ( perpeudicular to the axis of the shell ) is .
The couple about the axis is tending to increase Now , with the kind of field that we have taken , and the period being , the value of over the surface may be expanded in the series , We have already shown that when pt at the surface , then at the surface Hence , with the expansion of , we get The corresponding value of has been found to be PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ]]iCTRIC CURRENTS .
299 In finding the mean value of the couple , S , we bear in mind that the mean values of and of are and of pt .
, zero .
On picking out the coefficients of and in , we find for the mean value of the couple @ Also @ , and S0 .
Thus the mean value of the couple becomes ( vii .
) .
5 .
The couple vanishes when for all values of , say , so that is of the form in other words , the couple vanishes when both parts of each harmonic are in the same phase , though that phase be not the same for all harmonics .
As a particular case the remarkable result holds that whatever be nature of the external field ( it being made up , of course , of currents parallel to the axis ) , there will be no couple on the shell , provided the exterrial field be altogether in the same phase .
The Effect on Infnite Shu , in the presence of an A Current in a Parallel Wire , of the Interposition of Parallel Shell .
6 .
Take the plane through the axes of the as that of ZOX , and a perpendicular plane through the wire as that of The shells are thin ; let their radii be , and their distances from the origin and ; the distance of the wire from the origin be , and the current in it I pt .
Let the position of pt .
in space be determined by its distances from the axes of the shells and the angles Then if we have sm Hence ; therefore and if So , too , if and 7 .
Due to the alternating current in the wire we have , over the cylinder , where is a constant .
PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
301 On putting we get when I. pt pt On substituting for , \amp ; c. , we get to the fourth power of 8 .
The currents set up in both cylinders will clearly be parallel to their axes , and if those in the shell produce at points on itself the momentum pt higher harmonics , and if the currents in the shell produce on itself a momentum , distinguished from the above 1oy the dashing of the letters pt pt higher terms , then in all we have , that on the cylindrical surface , the momentum of the field that produces currents in that shell , is ( to the 4th power of , as will afterwards be explained ) -I pt -I powers pt and higher powers .
9 .
But if , an external field of momentum at the surface of the shell produce in it currents whose momentum at the surface is by Applying this to the values of and that we have recently found , we see that to the 4th powers of ( as we shall shortly explain ) PRODUCED BY ERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
303 ' ' I. The equations that hold for the shell may be obtained from the above by interchanging dashed and undashed letters and altering the sign of 10 .
Tn order to justify the approximation we observe : .
For ordinary values of the letters , is comparable with ; in the case , for instance , of a copper shell of diameter 10 cm .
, and thickness cm .
, about ; and if then about , which means that the number of reversals per second is about Hence , as far as we are concerned , we regard , or as of degree in ( ) .
It only remains to remark that the degree in of the most important term of each of the coefficients , \amp ; c , is that of their suffix 1 , 3 , \amp ; c. 11 .
We have cubes .
cubes .
Hence , as far as the fourth degree , in , with similar values for and with similar values for , and The values of the coefficients may be determined by the same method to a further degree of accuracy , and smce the current is given when the due to it is given , i. e. , PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
305 thus , the currents may be determined to any degree of closeIless .
12 .
In order to find the couple that acts on the shell , we use our previons result ( vu .
) , As far as terms of the sixth degree in this is ( writing I. remembering that the third harmonic terms are ( to this order ) in the same phase and give no couple .
This expression is Now , has to be calculated to the second order only , and on reference to the values of these coordinates to the first order it will be seen that it is zero .
Within the first bracket and are required to the third degree .
We have ( viii .
) Hence , for the couple we get This consolidates finally into . . .
( ix ) .
13 .
It will be noticed that the more important term is symmetricai , except that it changes sign if it be applied to the shell instead of the ; the direction of rotation is negative when is positive , i.e. , is as indicated in the figure , and is priori likely , since the repulsion is likelier to be stronger where the currents and field are stronger , i.e. , on the side nearest the wire of the shell to the left and on the unshielded side of that to the right .
The couple changes sign with it should , and vanishes if or yanish .
The term of the eighth degree vanishes when , i.e. , The Effects on two parallel Thin Infinite Shells of Thin parallel to them , Magnetised in direction perpendicular to iis Length .
14 .
Let the same axes and coordinates be taken as before ; the filament may be regarded as an electromagnet consisting of a current pt ( where is small ) , parallel to at , and a current pt , parallel to at The direction of magnetisation will then make an angle of with OX , and the strength will be A pt per unit length .
If I. were a coefficient in the expansion of the electromagnetic momentum in the case of a current I pt at , then , with the electromagnet , coefficient will be the limit of , i. e. , BY ALTERNATTNG ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
307 but the same plan will not avail when applied to find the new couple ( by directly ti differentiating the couple due to the current I ) , owing to the interaction of the currents set up by the two elementary currents of the elall .
We shall have to use our previous result , that if the external field on the surface of a shell has momentum the couple is by ( vii .
) , On reference it ] be seen that due to the current I pt , we had aa ' cubes .
\mdash ; I I. Now , with the electromagnet instead of single current ( remembering , I will become or Also I will become and for , we have merely to add dashes to and If we omit terms of the eighth degree in , the value of the couple will be where , ' On multiplying up , we notice that the second terms o an cancel , when multiplied reSectivel b an , and we get for the couple or The expression within the bracket is or or Hence , omitting terms of the eighth degree , the couple on the shell is where is , the angle subtended by the axes of the shells at the electromagnetic filament .
15 .
To this order then we have the following results:\mdash ; PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
The couple exerted on a shell is independent of , i.e. , of the direction of the axis of the electromagnet .
The shells have equal couples in opposite directions , the parts of the shells directed towards one another being driven towards the electromagnet if is less than a right angle and driven away from it if exceeds a right angle .
If be a angle the couple vanishes .
Fig. The Effect of set up in Thin Shell .
16 .
In obtaining the currents set up by a given field we follow Professor C. NIVEN : , using spherical coordinates and the ordinary notation , be the current function of Fig. 34 .
the distribution in the shell , the potential of imaginary matter spread it with surface density , then The components of the current are a If the external field have magnetic potential , and if ( evel quantities that refer to externally applied system by a zero suffix ) , then the equations connecting the components of the vector potential with the components of induction are satisfied by ' The equations giving the currents are and are satisfied by .
Let us consider the case where is the radius of the shell , and is a spherical harmonic of degree We have at the surface .
If due to this ; then at the surface , and the equation for is therefore PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
.311 Denoting then by , we shall have corresponding to pt at the surface , the value , and corresponding to 17 .
If the components of magnetic induction or magnetic force along the directions @r , r@ , be , the components of electromagnetic force in these directions will be , or , or , or The couple about the axis of will be the integral over the surface of where in it will be sufficient to take into account the external field ( as in the case of the cylinder ) , for the shell will not exert any couple on itself This couple is S. Now if be periodic in the time , it can be expanded near to the surface of the sphere in the series where include only harmonics of degree .
Due to this value of we shall have at the surface , and ( .
) .
The mean value of pt and pt being , and of pt pt zero , that of will be , denoting differentiation to by dashes , Now are harmonics of the degree and will give zero when multiplied by harmonics of other degrees than and integrated over the sphere : hence it is sufficient to write for the couple Also being a perfect differential , vanishes when integrated to from to : thus and the couple is ( xii .
) .
PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
[ It might be objected that being given the external field , we have no right to take at the surface ; we have proved , however , in our introductory work , that if be given , an alteration in the normal component of the vector potential only introduces an alteration in the electrostatic potential .
] 18 .
Hence it follows that\mdash ; If the external field be symmetrical round the axis of , so that is independent of , the couple will be zero ; if the external field be completely in the same phase , or if when expanded in harmonics over the surface its form is pt , where is independent of the coordinates , then the couple vanishes .
From this it that if we have an exciting field in the same phase , and introduce any number of perfectly conducting bodies , the couple will still be zero .
The Couples on two Thin Shells due to the presence of an Alternating Current in a Straight Infinite 19 .
Let the line the centres of the shells be taken as OX and the shortest distance between this line and the infinite wire as OY .
Let the radii of the shells be , and their central distances from and : let the distance from of the wire be tf a point in space have polar coordinates when erred to as origin and axes parallel to OX , , and dinates r to as origin , its Cartesian coordinates will } ) XDCCCXCIt .314 MR. G. T. WALKER ON REPULSION AND ROTATION Thus ' . . . . .
so that and when and is less than so that , omitting second harmonics , higher harmonics .
20 .
Hence if currents in the surface produce upon that surface a magnetic otential $i si harmonics of second and higher orders , distinguished bashes fbove , then tupon thelland iurrents i will be PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
.315 pt higher harmonics .
The magnetic potential at of the current in the infinite wire is pt , and hence at on the sphere is ' or omitting harmonics of second and higher degrees .
Hence the first harmonic of the magnetic potential of the system external to the shell is upon its surface , pt sin ) pt , where , if : Now we have shown ( xi .
) that a field produces a current function The of this is and its magnetic potential at the surface Hence the magnetic potential of the currents induced ' the shell by the system pt pt will be S pt ring this with we have , on giving their values , PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ]]iLECTR [ CURRENTS .
21 .
Tbere are , of course , six similar equations from consideration of the currents in the shell : these equations are accurate , since the introduction of further approximations gives rise to harmonics of higher orders than the From the four equations giving and , it follows that all these quantities are accurately zero , as might have been expected , since the system is unaltered on taking for , i. e. , putting for From these equations it follows , as in the case of the cylinder , that the principal terms of the first harmonics are of the first degree in the radii , but their next are of the fourth ( not the third , as for the cylinder ) .
It will also be obvious that the principal terms of the harmonics of the second order will be of the second degree in the dii .
The values of the coefficients can be calculated with ease , as the cylinder , but we wait to see which of them are involved in the couple .
Writing the external field on the shell in the form pt the couple will be ( xii .
) and the most important term omitted ( that from the second harmonic ) is of at least two rees higher in powers of the radii .
Also , so that the couple is or or .
On reference to the values o , \amp ; c. , it -ill be seeu to fourth powers of radii , also * terms three degrees higher , ' Hence the couple increasing is or 22 .
In obtaining the couple on the shell it will not do merely to interchange dashed and undashed letters , for the equations ( xui .
) give when and so that These equations may be obtained from ( xiii .
) by interchanging dashed and undashed letters , the sign of unaltered , with the exception of the term in , and as this term does not appear afterwards ( being constant over the sphere ) , the exception is necrligible .
The subsequent work does not introduce afresh , it only makes use of the formulae we have obtained , and thus it will be seen that the final couple on the shell is got by the changing of dashed and undashed letters , leaving the sign of unaltered ; it is If we write for the mean of distances of the centres from , the couples are PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
23 .
Hence If vanish , the couple vanishes , as might have been expected .
The signs of the couples fall inbo three cases:\mdash ; When is positive and , both couples are positive , and tend to increase Fig. 36 .
Fig. 37 .
( ii .
) When is numerically less than , the couple is positive , and the negative .
When is negative and numerically , both couples are rlegative .
H'ig .
39 .
Fig. 40 .
The Couples on two Shells , oduced by of length , pendicular to the joining their Centres , and alternately gnetise in rection at right angles to its length .
24 .
Let the same axes be taken as before , and let the direction of maguetisatio ] make with the plane .
The filament is alent to an electromagnet by currents pt , parallel to OZ at , and pt at , in the limit when is small ; the strength magnebisation will then be pt .
As before , a coefficient of magnetic potential , due to the current I pt , will become due to the electromagnet , and if then on reference to previous it will be found that whereas we had fo A due to I \mdash ; fourth powers , now we shall } PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
S21 So , too , we shall have instead of . . .
, and ( denoting by suffix that we have an electromagnet , not a current ) .
Also I. Therefore , \fnof ; m \mdash ; ' and similarly , i and But the couple tending to increase on the shell is , by ( xiv .
) , , or , or where ein \mdash ; On multiplying out and replacing products of sines and cosines by sines and cosine of added or subtracted angles most of the terms cancel , and we are left with Thus the couple on the sphere is and on the sphere , 25 .
From this we see that If the couples on the two shells be equal and opposite or i. e. , or The couples will not vanish when and , unless in additio ) or ( in which case there is by symmetry obviously no couple ) .
We may take as an example and the couples will be the upper sign referring to the shell .
The bracket will be positive when say .
The bracket will be positive and negative when or Fig. 42 .
PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
The bracket will be negative when Fig. 44 .
( 8 .
) In confirmation it may be noticed that if , when the system is symmetrical to OY ) , and or , the couples are equal and opposite .
The couples are then and are negative and positive on the and shells respectively , for all possible values of , for which the shell is to the right of The Couples on Two Shells in the prescnce of iIagnetic Pole of strength pt .
26 .
Take OX through the centres of the spheres and OY through the pole , whose distance from is , G. T. WALKER ON ]]iPULSION AND ROTATION Then , with the same notation as before , the magnetic potential due to the pole will be , on the shell , second h fourth powers of .
2 ( xv .
) fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
fourth powers of .
The equations ( xiii .
) now give and since in there was no term , the coefficient will be zero .
Also fourth powers , Therefore , . .
, The couple on the shell has been proved to be ( xiv .
) .
This is equal to or Ha PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
The couple on the shell is 27 .
Thus we see that The couples vanish ( as they should ) when When and , the figure is symmetrical to plane , and the couples will be equal and opposite ( as they should ) : that on the shell being positive if be positive .
Fig. 47 .
For other cases the discussion of sign is similar to that for the current I pt , and there are three cases:\mdash ; I. When and are positive , the couples are both negative , as if be negative and Fig. 49 .
II .
When numerically , the signs , - .
Fig. 60 .
The Couples on two Spherical Shells in the presence of a of pt , whose Axis cuts the Line joining the Centres of the Spheres at 28 .
We regard the magnetic particle as having a pole of strength pt , and a pole of strength pt at , where If a coefficient of magnetic potential due to a single pole at of strength Hcos pt , be Hf that due to the magnet will be the limit when is small of i. e. , will be PRODUCED BY ALTERNATING ELECTRIC CURRENTS .
327 Now we had ( xv .
) Thus , uishing coefficients arising from the magnet by a suffix as distinct from the magnetic pole , we have So too fro ( xv .
) We had also higher powers , Hence Thus the couple , where On multiplying and continuing the practice of replacing products by sines and cosines of sums or differences , we get Expressed in terms of , the couple on the two shells will be , where 29 .
Hence we have If For the couples to be equal and opposite we must have or , and then If ( fig. 54 ) , the values of are negative , both for ; if ( fig. 55 ) , both values of are positive .
Fig. 54 .
Fig. .55 .
If we take , we find that The former is negative when increases from to about , and positiv thence to , being negative to .
The latter is negative from to positive thence to , and afterwards negative to

