1889 .
] On Auto-infection in Cardiac Disease .
II .
" On Auto-infection in Cardiac Disease .
" By L. C. Wooldridge , M.D. , D.Sc .
, Assistant Physician to Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , B.S. , F.R.S. ( from the Laboratory of the Brown Institution ) .
Received January 24 , 1389 .
In 1886 I described to the Royal Society* a substance , one of the most noticeable features of which was that it caused intravascular clotting when injected into the circulation of an animal .
In subsequent publications I have further described the action of this substance , or rather group of allied substances , and speak of them as fibrinogens .
In particular , I pointed out in my papers in du Bois-Reymond 's 'Archiv , ' 1886 , and in Ludwig 's 'Festschrift , ' 1887 , that the lymph and cbyle contained this substance .
More exactly I had found that the fluid of lymphatic glands , freed from all form elements , possessed precisely the same action as the fibrinogens , and that the fibrinogen was the active substance in this fluid .
The lymph contained in serous cavities does not contain this body , hence it is probably formed in the lymphatic glands .
Dr. Kruger , f assistant to .
Professor Alexander Schmidt of Dorpat , has disputed the correctness of these observations .
But I am absolutely certain , from a repetition of my experiments , an account of which I have published elsewhere , J that Dr. Kruger is in error , and that my original observations were correct .
In the present paper I endeavour to show the light which further experiments have thrown on this question , and to point out the probably great importance which fibrinogen intoxication plays in a large and important class of disease , particularly cardiac disease .
Por the purpose of my experiments I have used mainly the thymus gland , as the fluid and the fibrinogen of the thymus is quite similar to that of lymphatic glands , and is more easily obtained .
Experiment 1 .
The half per cent. KaCl fluid of the thymus , perfectly fresh , the cells completely removed by the centrifuge .
The fluid rendered faintly alkaline with Na2C03 .
Bog I , \#151 ; Weight 19 lbs. Injected rapidly into the jugular vein c c- 'f the fluid .
Dog killed .
The portal vein was thrombosed , .
Bn Intravascular Clotting , " and Croonian Lecture Abstract , Apr. 8 , 1886 .
I ' Zeksehrift fur Biologie , ' 1887 , Heft 2 .
a ^ie Nature of Coagulation ' ( pamphlet , London , 1888 ) , 310 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
[ Jau .
3i , the clot commencing in the middle of the portal trank , and extend-ing into all the branches of the portal in the liver .
Dog II.\#151 ; Weight 16 lbs. 7'5 c.c. of the fluid injected , but ten times diluted with alkaline salt solution .
The injection was slow , taking from three to four minutes .
The dog was killed .
There was absolutely no trace of clotting in any vessel .
As regards diet the animals were in similar conditions .
Experiment 2 .
Used the watery extract of thymus , precipitated with acetic acid , and the solution of this precipitate in alkaline half per cent. NaCl injected .
Dog I.\#151 ; Weight of dog , 14 lbs. Injected rapidly 7 c.c. of solution .
The animal ceased to breathe instantly and never breathed again .
The heart continued to beat for several minutes .
The right heart , the whole of the pulmonary artery and veins , and the left heart one solid clot .
Dog II.\#151 ; Weight of dog , 13\#163 ; lbs. 7 c.c. of the same solution injected , but diluted ten times with alkaline salt solution j the injection slow , occupying three to four minutes .
Dog killed .
Absolutely no trace of clotting anywhere .
It is seen from the above experiments that a substance added rapidly to the circulating blood produces a pronounced effect ; added comparatively slowly and diluted , but in the same quantity proportionate to the weight of the animal , it produces no effect at all .
The obvious effect may be local , i.e. , occur where the sudden admixture of fluids takes place , i.e. , in the heart ; or it may be remote and take place in the portal vein .
The phenomenon appears to resemble somewhat the so-called " mass influence " ( m assenwirJcu ng ) of chemists .
A sudden admixture of a sufficient quantity of this substance with a given quantity of blood poisons the blood ; the same conditions would be produced if instead of the injection being sudden the blood were circulating more slowly .
In this case , also , a given quantity of the blood would in a given time receive a larger quantity of the fluid than if the blood were rapidly circulating .
For the present I am speaking of the blood being affected by its showing an obvious change , that is clotting ; and I know , from previous experiments , tha to produce this change a certain quantity of the fibrinogen must be added to the blood , i.e. , the larger the dog , and consequently the more blood , the more of fibrinogen must be injected .
The present experiments show that to affect the blood a cer ain quantity of the substance must reach the blood within a given timei and this effect may obviously be obtained either by rapid injection or by the current of .
blood being slow in the neighbourhood of the ves On A uto-infection in Cardiac Disease .
311 used for injection .
I am therefore inclined to explain the fact that the lymph does not normally poison the blood because it runs into the blood slowly whilst the blood circulates rapidly .
In a normal state , therefore , the conditions which must exist for a fibrinogen intoxica-ion do not prevail .
I have above used the term ** poison the blood " ; it will be advantageous for me to explain this expression .
The admixture of fibrinogen and blood may obviously affect the latter , by causing it to clot or by preventing its clotting ( vide previous papers ) , * but it produces other changes than these which are not so directly perceptible .
The nature of these changes will be seen from the following:\#151 ; If in a normal dog the femoral vein be ligatured there is no obvious effect produced , there is no oedema of the leg .
If , however , some solution of fibrinogen be injected into the circulation through the jugular vein and the femoral be then ligatured , the effect produced is most pronounced , and is as follows : either the most extensive and rapidly developing simple oedema of the leg occurs or an enormous haemorrhage " per diapedesin " takes place throughout the tissues of the limb ; or the two are combined\#151 ; there is haemorrhage and oedema .
The injection of fibrinogen , f then , in addition to the obvious effects of clotting or delay in clotting , produces a totally disturbed relationship between the blood and the vascular wall , since , after the injection , a slight mechanical disturbance to the circulation causes a greatly increased exudation of the fluid of the blood , or this associated with a free passage of the red corpuscles .
The tendency the injection has to cause haemorrhage I have already pointed out in a previous publication , \#163 ; the fact that it produces a simple but severe and sudden \#166 ; oedema is new .
Now , to produce this altered state of the blood , leading to oedema , the same conditions of admixture of blood and j fibrinogen are necessary , i.e. , the admixture must be rapid .
I will illustrate this by an experiment .
^Experiment 3 .
I Used the NaCl fluid of thymus free from cells .
1 \#151 ; height 17 lbs. 12 c.c. of solution rapidly injected into j Pgular .
Right femoral vein tied close to Poupart ligament .
* 'g killed the next day .
The portal system thrombosed .
The whole | * " Intravascular Clotting , " ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1886 ; " Beitrage sir Frage der I f\#174 ; nQuung " 'du Bois-Reymond , Archiv , ' 1888 ; " Ueber Schutzimpfung auf I * Wcgo , " * du Bois-Reymond , Archiv , ' 1888 .
j fib .ihe fibrinogen used to produce this effect may be lymph fibrinogen , tissue | ?
n^fen ' or certain varieties of blood fibrinogen .
I88g boldridge , " On Hiemorrhagic Infarction of the Liver , " * Pathol .
Soc. Proc. , Presents .
[ Jan. 3i , right leg extremely oedematous .
Large haemorrhages over upper part of leg and lower part of abdomen .
Dog II.\#151 ; 17 lbs. 12 c.c. of solntion injected , but ten times diluted , and injection lasting five minutes .
Femoral vein tied close to liga .
meant .
Dog killed next day .
No trace whatever of clotting anywhere .
Leg absolutely free from the slightest trace of oedema or haemorrhage .
So far as my observations go , the tendency to oedema is the first symptom of fibrinogen intoxication , i.e. , it is more easily produced than any other .
One of the most important features in these observations lies in their relationship to many important diseases .
I have pointed out the conditions which must prevail to produce a fibrinogen intoxica-tion .
It is improbable that diseased conditions are often set up by a sudden large flow of lymph into the blood ; but it is certain that the other conditions , the slowing of the circulation in the neighbourhood of the thoracic duct , is a common incident , particularly I may mention valvular disease of the heart and obstruction to the circulation through the lungs , as conditions which necessarily produce this result .
It is a dogma of medicine that cardiac dropsy as a symptom of cardiac failure , is due to the mechanical obstruction of the circulation .
My observations lead me to the conclusion that the danger in cardiac disease is fibrinogen intoxication ; and that the symptoms of cardiac disease\#151 ; e.g. , dropsy , formation of intravascular clots , haemorrhagic infarction , fever , \amp ; c.\#151 ; are largely dependent on this condition .
Presents , January 31 , 1889 .
Transactions .
Ij^^H Amsterdam:\#151 ; Konmklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen .
handelingen ( Letterkunde ) .
Deel XVII .
4to .
Amsterdam 1888 ; Verhandelingen ( Natuurkunde ) .
Deel XXVI .
4to .
Amsterdam 1888 .
The Academy .
Koninklijk Zoologisch Genootschap * Natura Artis Magi ?
ha Bijdragen tot de Dierkunde .
Aflevering 14-16 .
4to .
Amsterdam 1887-88 ; Feest-Nummer uitgegeven bij Gelegenheid van bet 50-iariar Bestaan van het Genootschap .
4to .
Amsterdam 1 ' .
J 8 The Society .
Brussels :\#151 ; Academy Royale des Sciences .
Annuaire .
1889 .
12mo Bruxelles .
The AcademyBuitenzorg:\#151 ; Jardin Botanique .
Annals .
Vols. II , IH\gt ; ' J ' 1 VI .
Parts ( respectively ) 2 , l , 1\#151 ; 2 , 1 , 2 .
8vo .
l88Pi|^ Calcutta :\#166 ; \#151 ; Asiatic Society of Bengal .
Journal .
1888 .
Nos. ^ 8vo .
Calcutta ; Proceedings .
1888 .
Nos. 2-8 .
8vo .
^^ty .

