13 .
Letter from Lieut. Gillies , U.S.N. , to Lieut.-Col. Sabine , R.A. , For .
Sec. R.S. U.S.N. Astronomical Expedition , Santiago de Chile , 20th Jan. 1850 .
Dear Sir , -I had the pleasure to receive your letter of Aug. 3rd by the last monthly steamer from the north , and greatly lamented I could not answer it by the mail , which left Dec. 30th .
Leaving the United States on the 1 6th of August , want of a proper amount of fire surface in the boilers of the steam-ship , caused my arrival at Chagres only on the day ( 27th ) when the mail for Chile left .
A month was thus unavoidably lost ; for in anticipation of a passage through without delay , all instruments , except an aneroid barometer and thermometer , had been despatched round Cape Horn .
With these such observations were made , until arrival here , as their construction permitted .
From the indications of the aneroid there is a region extending from 200 miles to the S.S.W. of San Domingo to about 1 ?
of north latitude on this side of the continent , where the pressure rarely exceeds 29'850 in .
, nor was the barometer but once in that whole distance as high as 29*900 in .
At Panama the mean is 29*795 in .
from observations at 9 A.M. , 3 P.M. , and 9 P.M. , with a mean diurnal fall from the first to the second hours of '08 in .
The temperature for the same hours was 81 ?
'0 with a range of 2§§9 , and almost constantly saturated with moisture , though rain fell no more frequently than often occurs during the same period in the United States .
As evidence of the hygrometric condition of the atmosphere , it was found impossible to dry clothing in my room after several days ' open exposure , and they were finally exposed to the direct rays of the sun .
Leather moulds in forty-eight hours .
The light wind experienced was almost constantly from the northward and westward during the day , and variable at night .
I think Lieut.-Col. Emery made observations for declination and dip en route for California , but nothing is known to me of the results , and I must await our return to give you data on these points .
Should nothing intervene to change present intentions , I contemplate making observations at each of the fifteen ports where the steamer touches between Valparaiso and Panama .
Nothing of note occurred during our passage to Chile .
There was time to glance at Buonaventura , Guyaquil , Payta , Huanchaco ( part of Truxillo ) , Casma , five days at Lima , Pisco , Islay , Arica , Iquique , Coleiga , Copiapo and Coquimbo , -a multitude of little towns unimportant in themselves , and mentioned only to indicate the points where I hope to obtain observations of the magnetic elements .
Reaching Santiago on the 27th of October , I was convinced in a brief time that no other part of Chile would so well answer the pur .
poses of the expedition , and the Government here having acted promptly and with most commendable liberality on all points , there was no hesitation in selecting this city as my station .
You know it is situated on a plain varying in width from twelve to forty miles , which , commencing just north of 33 ?
, with a slight interruption in 3 4 ?
, extends to the Gulf of Onend in 41 .
The sea range of the Cordilleras , from which Santiago is distant from four to five leagues , has an elevation of 3000 to 4000 feet above the ocean , whilst the main chain to the eastward varies from 10,000 to 17,000 or 18,000 feet , and is distant about six leagues at the base .
Interrupting the eastern horizon as they do , the interference with observations on the planet Venus in the morning twilight rendered so near an approach objectionable ; but there was no locality in the vicinity of a proper residence free from this obstacle , and no place in the interior offering the facilities possessed by Santiago .
If I mistake not , in one of my former letters I stated that the coast was impracticable , on account of very frequent fog and mist ; and this was the opinion of the most observant residents here .
There were two positions offered for our use by the Government , -a hill ( Santa Lucia ) in the eastern part of the city , with such rooms in the Castle , about halfway up , as might be needed , and the plain in the southern suburbs .
The former has an elevation of some 200 feet , whilst the latter is half submerged during the rainy season , and almost inaccessible to pedestrians .
Many reasons inclined me to prefer Santa Lucia , could its rocky crest be leveled , and this the Government at once undertook .
On the 9th of November , the ship having reached Valparaiso a few days after me , all the instruments nearly , together with the observatories , were deposited in the Castle , distant 100 miles from the ocean , having been conveyed in huge carts of the country drawn by five yokes of oxen .
Chronometers , magnetical , meteorological , and all delicate instruments , were suspended by hide cords inside the carts , so as to swing free of each other , and everything came safely except three black bulb-thermometers , which Mr. Barrow had packed in sand .
On opening the outer case ( for the first time ) the sand was found to have filtered through crevices in the packing-box , leaving the bulbs wholly unsupported .
The fourth one was accidentally broken a few days after , and we are now with only one spirit thermometer for radiation , one of them having been , unfortunately , broken also .
Our larger equatoreal was placed on its pier on the 6th of December , and on the 10th commenced the series of observations on Mars ; since which time I have made more than 1100 differential measures .
The superb meridian circle , made by Pistor and Martius , arrived here only at Christmas , and as it is an instrument of exceedingly limited adjustment , it has only been adjusted to the meridian a day or two .
Instability of our floor rendering additional support necessary for the joists when the extraordinary weight of the instrument is transferred to the receiving carriage , has rendered impracticable the adjustment of our microscopes thus far .
But I hope to have the instrument fully at work by the 25th , stays having been driven in beneath the joists .
A more exquisitely finished instrument was never turned out of a workshop .
Immediately after our location , meteorological observations were commenced , embracing eight periods of the day , at equal intervals , viz. at 3 , 6 , 9 , 12 A.M. and P.M. Nothing is so striking to the stranger as the great dryness of the atmosphere and its almost perfect transparency , the ordinary difference of the dry and wet thermometers being above 12 ?
, and , except over the Cordilleras to the N.E. , clouds being rarely seen at this season of the year .
Our barometer is of Mr. Hassler 's form of construction , with a capacity above 0'6 in .
Taking from the volume containing astronomical observations ( no other being at hand ) , the meaus between 9 P.M. and meridian for the last twenty-one days of December , they are 28*126 in .
; air 70 ?
3 ; wet 57 ?
'8 ; and fluctuations during the same period respectively , 28-247 in .
to 28-023 in .
; 74 ?
04 to 65 ?
-6 ; 61`9 to.513 .
From 10 A..M .
till noon is the warmest period of the day ; then a breeze sets in from S.W. , which moderates the fierceness of the sun 's rays until he sets .
Our vicinity to the snow on the Cordilleras , N.E. from the city , renders night always pleasant , and indeed the temperature is never oppressive when not exposed to the direct action of the sun .
On unpacking the magnetical instruments , no top could he found for one set of the legs sent by Mr. Jones , and as it would be next to impossible to have a triangle made for securing them together , much time is unavoidably lost .
One of the 3S67 in .
magnets , too , is so greatly oxidized , I shall not use it until I hear from you again ; and as there are no tidings of the altitude and azimuth instrument , the declinometer also must remain in its case .
The hill on which the observatories have been erected being very decidedly polar , our observations for the horizontal force and dip have been made in a vineyard a few hundred yards to the eastward , and where we shall continue to make them for the present .
Our own residence would have been greatly preferable ; but the two portions being only about 16 feet square each , and having windows on at least two sides protected by stout bars of iron , it has been deemed objectionable .
When the winter comes on it is probable a small abode house will be put up for them ; at present we use them in the open air .
The periods assigned for observation are , the 1st , 11th , and term day of each month , commencing about 11 A.M. and ending about 4 P.M. This is all which my force will permit me to do ; but if we can obtain means to mount the other tripod stand , so as to avoid loss of time in the vibration experiments , we shall have abundant leisure for the vertical and total forces as you suggest .
Were the brass rings for determining the magnetic moments of the deflecting magnets measured and weighed by Mr. Jones ?
I have made out No. 12 , outer diameter , 3'025 in .
; inner , 2'338 in .
; weight , 949 troy grains .
Since November 1st we have experienced five or six trernblings of the earth , principally during the first three weeks of that month .
To my great mortification , the seismometer ma(le no record either time , for this terrible visitant is of earnest interest to every one in Chile , and the object of the instrument , though greatly perverted , was a subject of much talk among the people of Santiago .
The inverted pendulum has been made as sensitive as possible , and the recording pencil only pressed against the segment in the slightest manner to secure a mark-yet it has left no sign .
True , the shocks were of no great violence , though strong enough to creak the ceilings overhead , and on one occasion to start every one into the street .
Of the last I was warned by the rumbling noise , sufficiently long , to take out my watch and note the periods and intervals of its two shocks .
To the best of our estiniation the motion of the earthquake is invariably from the westward , and more frequently from W.S.W. than any other direction since November .
One only of the phenomena , since our arrival , proved of serious injury ; viz. that of November 18th , which kept the earth in motion in the vicinity of Coquimbo for the space of 84 seconds .
Very slight injury was sustained by the houses from this cause ; but it was immediately followed by a wave 16 feet above high-water mark , overwhelming the buildings and smelting furnaces on the shores of the bay .
In Santiago I was roused from sound sleep ( 6h lordl A.M. ) by the rocking of my bed and creaking of the timbers overhead , to find all the inmates of the hotel flying to the streets .
At Coquimbo shocks were repeatedly felt on the 16th , 18th , 19th and 20th , several each day .
Dr. Lamont suggested an instrument to be formed of three upright cylinders wrapped with photographic paper and moved by clockwork ; three beams suspended horizontally by two parallel threads each and a lamp in the centre .
The subject was talked over with Prof. Henry prior to leaving the United States ; and as I have since written him respecting the instrument here , it is greatly hoped one will be made after Dr. Lamont 's suggestion and sent out to us .
I trust to hear from you as often as your leisure will permit , and you may feel assured your suggestions will always be gratefully received and carefully followed .
The Secretary of the Navy has authorized me to notify to all scientific correspondents , that their communications , if put under cover to " Honourable Secretary of the Navy , Washington , " will be forwarded to me by the earliest monthly mail ; and the Secretary of State has directed the " United States Consul , Panama , " to receive and transmit free of expense any letters addressed to me .
If , then , you will deposit your letters with Mr. Abbot Lawrence , they will assuredly come ; or if put in the English West India mail , " care U.S. Consul , Panama , " on the 1st , they will reach me on the 25th of the following month .
With my most respectful remembrances to Mrs. Sabine , believe me , dear Sir , Very faithfully yours , S. W. GILLIES .
4 P.S. 28th.-The most violent earthquake felt occurred on the night of the 20th , just before midnight .
As usual , , there were two shocks ; noise with the first or preceding it , and the second most sensible ; the former continuing four and the latter twelve seconds .
Standing erect , the direction from which the noise and wave came was undoubtedly near W.S.W. , and this position was assumed at the earliest symptom , that these facts might be more easily appreciated .
Our seismometer gave no tidings .

