305 1896 .
] On the Diurnal Periodicity of Earthquakes .
tion , therefore , between fertility and any mental or physical characteristic must work a progressive change .
We know that there are very considerable race and class differences in the matter of fertility .
It is very difficult to understand how these could have arisen by the action of natural selection combined with heredity , unless either ( 1 ) fertility be inherited , or ( 2 ) fertility and some inherited mental or physical characteristic be correlated .
But either ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) involves reproductive selection .
We have seen that there is evidence of correlation between the stature of women and their fertility .
There is also evidence of a correlation between fertility and class .
Taking Copenhagen , for which alone we have satisfactory class-fertility statistics , it is possible to show : ( i ) That the gross fertility of the artisan is more than the gross fertility of the professional classes .
( ii ) That the net fertility of the artisan is less than the net fertility of the professional classes .
Thus natural selection , at first sight , checks reproductive selection , greater fertility connoting a greater death-rate ; but we find : ( iii ) That the marriage-rate of the artisan is so much higher than the marriage-rate of the professional classes , that the percentage fertility of the former considerably exceeds that of the latter .
Thus , while a selective death-rate checks reproductive selection as between class and class , a selective marriage-rate again places reproductive selection at an advantage as compared with natural selection ; the population would accordingly appear to be ultimately , and in the long run , reproducing itself from the artisan classes .
I hope , later , to publish the analysis , curves , and statistics on which these conclusions are based ; at pi'esent I only wish to draw attention to the general result : that reproductive selection at any rate in civilised man-\#151 ; seems a factor of evolution equipotent to natural selection , if , indeed , it be not prepotent .
II .
" On the Diurnal Periodicity of Earthquakes .
" By Charles Davison , M.A. , F.G.S. , Mathematical Master at King Edward 's High School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor Pointing , F.R.S. Received February 15 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) Reference is made to the previous work of De Montessus and Omori , the former endeavouring to show that the diurnal periodicity of earthquakes is apparent rather than real , and the latter pointing 306 On the Diurnal Periodicity of Earthquakes .
[ Mar. 5 , out that a marked diurnal periodicity characterises the after-shocks of great earthquakes in Japan .
, The results of twenty-six registers obtained by means of continuously recording instruments in Japan , the Philippine Islands , and Italy are subjected to harmonic analysis with the following ( 1 ) The reality of the diurnal variation of earthquake-frequency seems to be proved by the approximate agreement in epoch ( mean local time ) of the first four components ( 24 , 12 , 8 , and 6 hours ) for the whole year at Tokio and Manila , and for the winter and summer halves of the year at Tokio .
( 2 ) In ordinary earthquakes , there is in nearly every case a marked diurnal period , the maximum generally occurring between 10 a.m. and noon .
The semi-diurnal period , though less prominent , is also clearly marked , , the maximum occurring as a rule between 9 a.m. and noon and between 9 p.m. and midnight .
Other minor harmonic components are also occasionally important , the first maximum of the eight-hour component probably occurring about 6.30 a.m. , and that of the six-hour component about 3 or 4 a.m. ; but for these two epochs the results are not always concordant .
( 3 ) Though the materials are insufficient for any general conclusion , the weaker shocks seem to be subject to a more marked diurnal periodicity .
( 4 ) In the case of after-shocks of great earthquakes , the diurnal periodicity is as a rule strongly pronounced .
The maximum of the diurnal period occurs within a few hours after midnight , but the epochs of the other components are subject to wide variation , possibly on account of the short intervals over which the records extend .
A special feature of after-shocks is the prominence of the eight-hour and four-hour components .
The epochs of the first four components representing the diurnal variation of seismic frequency are compared in several cases with those for barometric pressure and wind velocity .
While the variation of the former cannot be attributed exclusively to either of the latter phenomena , it seems not improbable that the diurnal periodicity of ordinary earthquakes may be due chiefly to that of wind velocity , and the diurnal periodicity of after-shocks ohiefly to that of barometric pressure .

