]\gt ; VII .
JIer 10iof the Roots of of P. A. , Major , by Professor GREENHILL , F. Received January 30 , \mdash ; Read ebruary 6 .
Prclimi , 1 .
THE theo1y of the symmetrical functions cf a of quantities been in a large number of memoirs , but so far , on lie a few attempts have been to develop an analogous theory with to several systerns of quantities .
The chief authors are SCHLAFLI* and CAYLEy , both of have , however , restricted themselves to the outlines of the commencement of such a theory .
In the theory of the single system it is found convenient to regard the quantities as the roots of an equation , coefficients of such an equation are themselves those particular symmetric functions of the quantities which have been val.iously termed fundamental , ementary , unitary ; they are fundamental because ] other rational integral functions expressible by their products of the same or lower degree ; elementary because they are those which , first of all , arise ; unitary because their partitions are composed wholly of units .
The left hand side of the equation referred to is a product of binomi{1 linear functions of a variable , so that , . .
being the quantities which compose the system , the mental relation may be written in the ordinary notation .
In a general disoussion it is convenient and advantageous to the number of quantities infinite , so that the relation becomes * " " Ueber die ResuItantc eines Systcmes mchrerer algebraischen eichungen.\ldquo ; Ac demy Denkschriften , ' vol. 4 , 1852 .
" " On the Functions of the Roots of certain Systems of Two tions 'Phil .
Trans vol. 147 ( 1857 ) .
2 .
Instead of taking a product of binomial linear functions of one variable , as above , we can , for systems of quantities , take a product of non-homogeneous linear functions of variables , and each such linear function may be taken of the form As indicative of this general case it is sufficient to consider merely the case of two systems of ntities .
of formulas is thereby avoided , but it must be distinctly borne in mind that all the succeeding theorems can be at once extended to the general case of systems by an easy enlargement of the nomenclature and notation .
I consider , then , two systems of quantities , . . .
; , . . .
; as connected with two non-homogeneous equations , in two variables , in such wise that the values , of the variables respectively constitute one solution of the two simul- taneous equations .
In order to avoid identical relations between forms , as well as for other which will appear , 1 take the number of quantities in each system to be infinite .
By analogy the fundamental relation is written . . . . . . .
As shown by SCHLAFLI this equation may be directly formed and exhibited the resultant of the two given equations , and an arbitrary , linear , non-homogeneous equation in two variables .
Beyond the preliminary idea this investigation has little to do with the original equations or with the theory of .
It starts with the fundamental equation just written , the right-hand side of which may be put into the form The most general symmetric function to be considered is . . .
which I represent symbolioally by . .
OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
Observe that the summation is in regard to the expressions obtained by pernluting the suffices 1 , 2 , 3 , . .
The weight of the function must be considered as bipartite ; it consists of the two numbers and I speak of the biweight The sum } ) the whole weight , or simply the weight .
Associated with any number there will be a weight and a biweight corresponding to every composition of by means of two numbers , including zero as a number .
By composition is meant partition , in which regard is paid to the order of the parts ; for instance , 21 and 12 are different binary compositions of 3 , and 30 , 21 , , 03 constitute the system .
3 .
It is necessary to introduce the notion of the partition of the bipartite number denotes the biweight .
Thus of the biweight the expression may be termed a partition .
The dual symbols , . .
are the parts of this partition ; the parts are themselves bipartite and may be termed biparts .
We have thus a ) iweight denoted a bipartite number partitioned into a number of ipartite numbers termed biparts .
It is convenient to arrange the biparts so that the sums of the ] which compose them are in descending order of magnitude left to right .
According to usual p1actice repetitions of biparts are denoted by power thus 4 .
In the notation just explained the fundamental relatio1l is written denotes 2 and in general .
Observe that here the number of quantities each system is considered to be infinite , and that the right hand side of the equation is taken with unit not MAJOR MACMAHON ON SyMMETRIC FUNCTIONS multinomial coefficients ( cf. CAYLEY , .
cit This is done because it is the universal practice in the theory of the single system , and because otherwise it appears to possess undoubted advantages .
symmetric functions which appear in the relation are fundamental since , as will ppear , they serve to express all other rational integral symmetric functions , and they be there t , in that , not only is each composed entirely of units , but also each bipart comprises but a single unit .
It is obvious that the number of connected with the weight is .
It may be how many it is possible to partition a biweight into biparts .
In the ordinary theory of partitions the number of partitions of a number is the coefficient of in the ascending expansion of In the case , the number of partitions of the biweight into biparts is the coefficient of in the ascending expansion of or , putting .
al to , we see that the whole number of partitions of the weight into biparts is the coefficient of in the ascending expansion of Further , it is clear that the nulnber of rtitions of the biweight into exactly arts is the cient of in the expansion of 6 .
It is co1ivenient now to have before ns ] of the symmetric functions up to weight 4 inclusive .
The expanded generating function is .
, and we have OF ROOTS OF SYST F OF QUATIO N ; Biwe i ; WEIGHT 2 , Biweight 20 , Biweight 11 , Biweight 02 , ; ; ; WEIGHT , Biweight 21 , ; ; veight 1 , Biweight 03 , ; ; WEIGHT 4 , Biweight 40 , Biweight 31 , Biweight 22 , eight 1 , Biweight 04 , ( ; .
; 0\mdash ; 2 ; ; S2 .
Preliminary 7 .
The partitions with one bipart correspond to the sums of the powers in the single system , or unipartite theory .
They are easily expressed in terms of the fundamental symmetric functions .
The right hand side of the relation . . . . . . . . .
, may be written , or , since it is convenient to write the symmetric function in the form , this is , where the bar over indicates a symbolism by which denotes Hence the relation . . .
, which is important in connection with the collateral theory of operations to be presently brought into view .
8 .
Taking logarithms of both sides of the relation . . . . . . . . .
, there results . . . .
Hence . . . . . . . .
we have the series of relations:\mdash ; \amp ; c. OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
and in general 9 .
Moreover , the symmetric functions are expressed in the terms of the forms by the formula .
, as will be evident by simply applying the multinomial theorem to one of the aboye written general identities of Art .
8 .
10 .
The single-bipart functions having been actually expressed in terms of the fundamental symmetric functions , it remains to show thaf all other rational algebraic symmetric functions are also so expressible .
SCHLAFLI ( loc. cit. ) has established this by induction , and it is not necessary to further discuss the theorem here .
In Art .
43 of the present memoir , will be found the actual expression of a given symmetric function by means of sile-bit forms , a formula which , combined with one given above , Art .
8 , serves to establish the theorem conclusively .
The Symmetric Function 11 .
Write . . . . . . . . .
as the definition of the function Writing for , we have . . . .
' and expanding the right hand in ascending powers of and the summation being for all partitions of the biweight .
Changing the signs of and in the relation first written down , we obtain identity hich arises from former by interchanging the letter with the letter Hence , if and be any two functions , such that , . . . . .
then also . . .
; and , in general , in any relation connecting the ctions with the functions , an identity will still remain if the ]etters and be transposed .
By the lnultinomial theorem ! . . .
From a ) revious result in this article , by logarithms and expanding ' which is to be compal.ed with the formula and it will be noticed that remains unchanged when is written for , except for a change of sign , when the weight is even .
S3 .
Differential Operations .
12 .
The beautiful properties of these symmetric functions are most easily established by of the differential operations whose theory I proceed to establish .
Consider the identity . . . . . .
, where may be as large as we please .
each side by .
The right hand side becomes . . .
, ROOTS OF OF EQUATIONS .
and , in becomes converted into Hence any fnnction of the ients , . . .
, is converted into , ; ; the multiplication of ) is symboli new value of is where the bar is placed ovel to den ote that the ] ultiplication of operators is symbolic vidc .
13 .
the denoting symbolic ication , then ( Compare Art .
7 .
) Now fillPl)ose the symmetric function expressed in terms of .
to be . .
The introduction of the new quantities results in the addition to of the ; " " Hymbolic\ldquo ; is to be understood " " \ldquo ; as in what is commouly known as " " symbolic\ldquo ; form of TAYLOR'S Theorem .
MAJOR AHON ON SYMMETRIC UNCTIONS . . . . .
; coefficients of like products , we find . . . .
clnd , unless the bipart is involved in the expression of From the above we gather the very important fact that the effect of the operation upon a partition is to obliterate one bipart when such bipart is present , and to annihilate the partition if it contains no bipart 14 .
I to the result . . .
, herein be it YJbered the nlication of operators in the right hand expression is symbolic .
I seek to replace by an expression containing products of linear partial differential operations in which the multiplication is not symbolic .
We have by definition .
, .
; let furthel .
, definitio1 ] hich includes the former .
15 .
I will tablish the relation , yherc on the left and right hand sides the multiplications of operators are respectively symbolic and not symbolic , and { THE ROOTS OF OF EQUATIONS . . . . . . .
, where are the undetermined algebraic quantities .
For the lnultiplication of two operators , we the form u wherein the symbol denotes explicit operation upon } operand , latter as a function of symbols of quantity unly , and not of the inverses .
Also Put .
, which may be written in which } is symbolically written But where , expansion of the right hand side , is to be written Then , with a similar convention , Further , it , is to prove the relation But for a series of linear partial differential operators enjoying ) , it i , s a well easily established theorem of that .
Hence , substituting , we easily reach the relation . . .
wherein and are undetermined algebraic quantities .
This establishes the theorem .
16 .
apply it to the case in hand , put in other cases .
Then .
and the result is . .
Combining with a former result ( Compare Art .
8 .
) 17 .
By expanding the right hand side we express each linear operator of the form in terms of products of the obliterating operators which have the form The law is identical with that which expresses the functions containing one bipart in terlns of symmetric functions .
We find \mdash ; and in general .
while .
' ( Compare Art .
8 .
) OF TH ROOTS OF SySTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
18 .
By comparison of these relations with the corresponding ones to which reference has been made , it is manifest that and respectively in corelation with and .
In other words these respectively correspond to the partitions .
It is necessary to find the operations which correspond to the remaining partitions which symbolize symmetric functions .
We have the easily derivable results in operations ' ' ; where as usual the bar denotes symbolic multiplication ; and these with the algebraic formulae it is evident that the operations are produced accord i to the same as the symmetric ; further the ) is perfectly general and indicates that the operation is in co-relation with the symmetric function .
19 .
There is thus complete correspondence between quantity and operation , and formula of quantity may be at once translated into a formula of operation .
Observe that a product of symmetric functions is in correspondence with the operation the notation indicating that the two operations .
and ) are to be successively performed .
For an example take the algebraic formula \mdash ; , which is translated into the operator formula 20 .
It is now necessary to enquire into the laws which appertain to the performance of these operations upon symmetric functions .
We have seen : ante Art .
13 , the law by which the obliterator is performed upon a monomial symmetric function .
Since . .
, we can operate with upon a monomial form by operating independently with the successive products on the right , and ddin the results together .
As a particular result , observe that a term on the right is , and hence or ; OF THE ROOTS OF OF EQUATIONS .
and causes every other single bipart function to vanish ; it must , indeed , cause any monomial fimction to vanish which does not comprise one of the partitions of the biweight amongst its biparts .
21 .
The relation just obtained yields the equivalence , and further results of the nature ( 1 ) which are of use in connexion with the theory of function with singie biparts .
Since every symmetric function is expressible in terms of the fundamental functions , every operation is necessarily expressib]e ils a sum of products and can be performed upon monomial symmetric function .
22 .
The solutions of the partial differential equation are the single bipart forms omitting ( Art .
21 ) , while the solution of the partial differential equation are those monomial symmetric functions in which the bipart is absent .
23 .
The operation , is expressible by means of the operations Reversing the formula . .
we obtain . . . . . .
, where as before ( Art .
11 ) , . . .
MAJOR IIACMAHON ON TRlC .
The Theory of Three Identities .
of the investigation this point necessitates the intl.oduction of identities bimilal to , and in addition to , the identity .
Let . . .
( I. ) . . . . . . . . .
( II .
) . . .
wherein and may be regarded as undetermined quantities and the identities as lncl.ely expressing the relations between ] the coefficients on the left and quantities on the right .
Assume the coefficients and quantities in the first two identities to be given and the coefficients in the tbird identity to be then determined by the relations:\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . .
bein undetermined quantities .
Multiplyin , out the -hand side of this , il , is to ) to the series of relations :\mdash ; ( 0-1- ) ; OF TH1 ROOTS OF OF QUATIONS .
and generally in the expression of every symmetric function of biweight of the quantities in the first identity occurs , each attached to the corresponding product of coefficients from the second identity .
25 .
Represent the mmetric fullctions of the quantities in the second and third identities by partitions in brackets , respcctively .
Now .
is from the identity II .
equa ] to which is .
26 .
Hence the assumed relation becomes on taking logarithms and expanding and equating coefficients of ; an important relation which shows that the assumed relation is unaltered when the set of quantities is interchanged with the set , in such wise that and transposed .
It is indeed of fundamental ance , will be brought prominently forward in the sequel .
Its consideration must be postponed until a further step been taken in the theory of the operators .
27 .
Let the opel.ators refer to identities I. , II .
, III .
, res}ectively .
Writing the relation . . . . . . . . .
, in the abbreviated form .
, IDCCCXC .
MAJOR MACMAHON ON FUNCTIONS ( forming the tion have oreover , and replacing by its value , we have ; while in general Now regarding the coefficients ) as functions of the coefficients only , we have . . .
Thus But the assumed elation is symmetrical as regards the quantities in the first two identities ; hence also thence , since , we have If we .
the sumed relation as defining a transformation of the quantities occurring in the identity III .
into either of the sets of quantities I. or Ir .
, the operation is inyariant .
28 .
Since \mdash ; . . .
\mdash ; .
OF THE ROOTS OF OF EQUATIONS .
The left hand side of this equation is ( vide Art .
16 ) , while if the operators be replaced by their expressions in terms of the operators it is easily seen that the side is 29 .
Hence the operator relation . . . . . . . . . .
This result must be compared with the relation ( Art .
24 ) . . . . . . .
30 .
I say that such a comparison yields the following theorem:\mdash ; " " In any relation connecting the quantities ) with the quantities we at liberty to ostitute for , and for ; and we in this manner ) a relation between operators in correspondence To explain this further , observe that being undetel'mined quantities in the assumed relation which connects the quarltities of the three identities I. , II .
, , we are able to express any product whatever of the cients c , . . .
terms of products of coefficients , . . . .
and of symmel , rical functions of the quantities . .
The itution in question can be in any equation thus 31 .
With regard to the relation of Art .
24 , : \mdash ; , two important facts have been That the relation ] tered ] ntit i occurring in the first identity .
, MAJOR MACMAHON ON SYMN[ETRIC FUNCTIONS are exchanged with those occurring in the second identity . . . . . . . . .
each with each .
( Art .
26 .
) ( ii .
) That we can always proceed to a relation between the operations by writing for and for ( Art .
30 .
) I will refey to these facts as the first and second properties of the relation respectiyely .
First ) of Symmetry .
32 .
By means of tlJe equality which has been established ante ( Art .
) , it is clear that any symmetric function expressed in a bracket can be expressed as a linear function of products of symmetric functions of the form ; it is clear from the first property above defined , that such expression will emain unaltered when the brackets and are interchanged ; it must , therefore , be a symmetric function in regard to these brackets .
We may , therefore , an equation . . . . . . . . . .
( A ) Moreover , we can express any product of the coefficients , . .
, . .
as a linear function of expressions each of which contains a monomial symmetric funcbion of the quantities ; .
and product of coefficients , . .
, .
Assume then , ( B ) From equation ( B ) is derived by the second property the operator relation , OF ROOTS OF OF IONS .
501 and performing each side of this equation upon the opposite side of the equation ( A ) we obtain , after of no other terms , the operations , or ; since the symmetric function on either side is to unity the operation .
Similarly the equation ( C ) yields equation of operators , and this when performed on opposite sides of equation ( A ) gives J. Hence and we have the law of symmetry expressed by the relations , , viz. , if in the first of these relations the partitions be interchanged the numerical coefficient remains unaltered .
The theorem is a consequence of the two properties that have been established in regard to the three identities and the relation assumed to exist between the quantities involved in them .
It appears to be the most important theorem in symmetrical algebra .
33 .
I now pass to certain consequences which flow straight from the theorem .
It is necessary to make a few definitions .
Definition .
" " A partibion is separated into separates by writing down a set of partitions , each separate partition in its own brackets , so when the parts of these rtitions are assembled in a single bracket , the partition which is separated is reploduced.\ldquo ; Fcr the purpo .
of this portion of the memoir alone it would have been expedient to use the word bipart in lieu of the word part in the foregoing definition , bat I have retained he word rt for the eason that the definition remains yalid whatever be the order of multiplicity of the parts .
Of a partition the is a separation composed of the separates and .
" " A partition its tions is termed a parable partition " " If the successive of the separates a separation be .
, the separation is said to have the specification . .
Observe that the biweights of the separation and of its specification are necessarily the same , identical with the biweight of the separable partition .
Observation .
The separable partition is as one amongst its own separations .
34 .
To take a concrete example of these definitions , consider a separable partition .
We have Separations .
Specifications .
, , , , -0-1 .
30- .
I will discuss the law of symmetry that has been established in the light of these definitions .
1 recall the relations OF ROOTS OF OF LQUATION the expression of each partition in brackets has the eight p , and each partition is attached to a roduct of quantities such that each factor sponds to a single bipart in the partition .
Hence on proceeding to form a relation represents the ) fun ction of . .
it is cJear that is a linear function of symmetric function products , of which has a fication ' .
and is also a separation of the separable partition .
The artitions ( , well as each of che alions which pl.esent themselves in the linear lction P of the When the separations in the function are all nded into a sum of monomial symmetric functions , each of the lattel has the same biweight .
Taking the separable ) tition ( as fixed , definite number of specifications appel.tain to the separations .
orming then ) roducts in correspondence with of these specifications , the law of symmetry tes that the same nnmber of different monomial symmetric functions will ) in the develop1nents of the several linear functions P. Further , the rtitions of these nonomial symmetric functions will be , in some order , identical with several specifications of separations of the fixed separable partition .
Assume the specifications to be , in order , . .
and write the identity in the notation We hnve then the relations:\mdash ; , and . . .
the quantities ?
numerical .
determinant of the numbers is symmetrical , for by the law of symmetry Hence , the coefficient of metric fun ction in the development of the assemblage of separations .
is identical with the coefficient of symmetric function in the development of the ssemblage of separations We proceed to expl.ess the symmetric functions as linear functions of the assemblages of ) arations P by elementary theory of determinants , the determinant of the of results is symmetrical .
Hence wherein 36 .
From this are deduced two important theorems , the one a theorem of expressibility , and the othel a theorem of synlmetry .
Any one of the monomial symmetric functions is expressed by a partition which is a specification of a separation of the partition This implies that the biparts occurring in the partition of can be so partitioned into biparts that when assembled together they will be identical with the biparLs of the partition .
Hence the theorem of expressibility :\mdash ; .37 .
Theoretn .
" " The biparts of the partition of monomial symmetric nction are partitioned in OF THE OF SYSTEMS OF any manner into , which , all assemb ] ' in a single bracket , represented by The symmetric function is expressible as a linear function of of separations of the symmetric function 38 .
The theorem of symmetry is as follows:\mdash ; Theorem .
' ' When the monomial symmetric .
is expressed as a linear function of the assemblages of separations , . .
, the coefficient of the assemblage .
is the the coefficient of the assemblage when is so expressed 39 .
This theorem enables us to form a pair of symmetrical tables in regard to every partition of every biweight .
The number of tables is therefore twice the number of partitions , the generating function for which has been given .
S6 .
The Functions composed of One Part .
40 .
I will now establish a law by means of which any symmetric function expressed by a partition with a single bipart be at once expressed in terms of separations of any partition of its biweight .
It is merely necessary to interpret a result already obtained .
I recall the of Art .
26 , which may also be written by Art .
8 , Let us compare the cofactor of , .
in the development of the left hand side with its cofactor on the ight hand side .
When the left hand side is multiplied out each symmetric function product which multiplies the term ) .
is necessarily separalion of the symmetric function The result of the comparison will be the expression of the function in terms of such separations .
41 .
Let be the value assumed by when ) and other quantities ) equal to umity .
Further , let denote the expression of by means of separations of the symmetric function .
MAJOR MACMAHON ON SyMMETRIC FUNCTIONS Then we may write where denotes the sum of all the symmetric functions of biweight pq .
Represenb the separates of the partition by , , .
and any ration by . .
; substitute for the quantities their values in terms of symmetric functions ; apply the multinominal theorem and equate correportions of the two sides and there results the formula where the summation taken for every separation of the given partition .
42 .
result is a generalisation of the VANDERMONDE-WARING law for the expression of the sums of the powers of the roots of an equation in terms of the coefficients .
43 .
The formula may be reversed so as to exhibit any symmetric function whatever in terms of single bipart functions .
The result easily reached is .
, the summation being for every separation . . .
of the symmetric function S7 .
Second of metry .
44 .
operation . . . . . .
may be said to be of biweight , since it lowers the weight of a symmetric function by the biweight .
Further , its degree is zero , since it does not in general lower the degree of a symmetric function .
If , however , operates upon a symmetric function of its own biweight , it is equivalent to the simple differential operation and is of degree unity .
OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
Similarly , the operation will be regarded as being ofweight ( biweight ) , where is a partition of the biweight ; and if , as a particular case , the operand be of the same biweight , it will be equivalent to the operation and will be of degree equal to Since therefore we have the result ; assuming then a result derived from the three initial identities of Art .
24 and the relation assumed to exist between the quantities involved , we at once led to the operator relation where consists entirely of symmetric functions of quantities which occu ] in the ) identity .
Further suppose a second result Hence , operating on the left and right of this result with right and left sides of the foregoing operator relation , we obtain , or from theorems established aboye ( Arts .
13 , 44 ) no other terms survivin the operation .
45 .
Hence a theorem of symmetry If .
, the cofactor symmetric function is unaltered when the partitions , are interchanged The function presents itself in the first place as a linear function of separations of the partition of the product to which it is attached .
The theorem supplies linear functions of separations of any two partitions respectively , of the same biweight , which are equal to one another .
46 .
To make the matter clear , form a table of biweight 21 as follows:\mdash ; which is to be read by rows .
* Each term in a column is a separation of the partition of the product at the head of the column .
The separations in each line of terms as written possess the same specifications , and also the same numerical coefficients .
In the right hand column the partition separated is a symmetric function , and hence each separate therein appearing is so also .
Each block of separations in the right hand column is the expression by means of fundamental symmetric functions of the monomial symmetric function of the same elements whose partition appears to the ] of the same line .
The terms of the first three columns may be regarded as being formed according to the same as the right hand column , and therefore according to a law defined by in the left hand column is equal to the aggregate of terms in any block in the same row .
OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF QUATIONS .
the monomial function at the left of the saIme line .
For example , the terms in the second column and third line are separations of formed according to the law of the function .
Also the terms in the third column and second line separations of formed according to the law of the iunction .
observe that the law of establishes that the table enjoys row and column symmetry .
Hence the assemblage of separations of formed according to the law of is eqnal to the ge of separations of formed .
to the law of .
47 .
Hence in general the theorem:\mdash ; " " The assemblage of separations of .
formed according to the law of .
is equal to the assemblage of separations of .
formed according to the law of In the particular case considered the equality is .
To actually form separations of .
according to the law of .
the separations of the former must be written down , and also the expression of the latter , by means of fundamental symmetric functions .
The separations are then given the same coefficients as the products of symmetric functions which possess the same specifications . .
Third of Syrnmetry .
48 .
From the relation . .
is derived the operator relation and , thence , by the method already.employed , . .
This law of symmetry is of considerable importance and but I do not stop to further discuss it *Vide 'American Journal of tics .
' " " Third Memoir on a New Theory of Symmetric Functions now in progress in vols .
11 , 12 , and succeeding volumes .
S9 .
linear Differential Operations of the Theory of 49 .
For purposes of calculation it is necessary to adapt the operations , . . . . .
, so that they may be performed on a symmetric function when the latter is expressed in terms of the separations of any given partition .
Of any partition separates ( vide Definitions ) are formed by taking all possible combinations of the parts .
These are precisely distinct separates which must be regarded as independent variables .
Put .
for any separate of a given separable partition P. Then by a known theorem . . . .
the summation being in regard to all the separates .
Moreover ( Art .
17 ) . . . . . .
, the summation being in regard to all the partitions of the biweight ; and also ( Art .
13 ) .
50 .
Hence . .
the summation being in regard to ( 1 ) Every separate of the given separable partition ; OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS O EQUATIONS .
( 2 ) Every partition of the biweight The hand side of this relation may be broken up into fragments in each of which all the numbers , . . .
constant .
In fact we may write wherein , following the summation , the numbers , . . .
are constanb , and the operator is one of the ments above mentioned .
This operation has a biweight , and may be defined also in regard bo the partition of the biweight 51 .
Write then for brevity and convenience . .
' so that we may write . .
where the summation is in regard to every partition of the biweight 52 .
In general not every partition of the biweighb will occur in the given sepalable partition , but it is convenient to consider the general resultjust written down as including every such partition .
It will be seen later that this result is of great importance in the theory .
I remark that on the left-hand side we have alinear partial diffel.ential operation whose expression by means of the fundamental symmetric functions nd their diiferen- tial inverses is well known by what has preceded .
Such expression is all that is needed so long as we are concerned only with the forms which , as they appear in the expression of a monomial symmetric function of biweight , present themselves in products which are separations of the symmetric function ) .
In the present broader theory in which the leading idea is the consideration of any partition at pleasure of the biweight as the separable partition , we bring into view the exhibition of the operation as a linear function of operations , each of which is in correspondence a partition of the biweight , We have , in fact , biweight olJerator c decomposed into a full number of bipart partition operators Observe that the whole theory of separations is a generalisation from a weight to a partition of a weight .
Here we have generalised from a weight operation to a partition operation , and I henceforward regard the partition operator as the essential linear partial differential operator of the theory .
The biweight operator has been expressed te ( Art .
17 ) in terms of the obliterating operators of the form .
These operations are equally available in the theory of the separable partition in general .
The mode of their ation upon a symmetric function product will be subsequently explained .
So far I have merely considered their operation upon monomial forms .
* 53 .
I observe that the operator is expressed as a linear function of the partition operators of the same biweight , according to the same laws as\mdash ; ( 1 ) The operator is expressed in terms of the operations ( Art .
17 ) .
( 2 ) The symmetric functions , containing one part only , expressed in terms of the fundamental or single-unitary forms ( Art .
8 ) .
E. , compare the three results ( the first slightly modified ) . .
, 54 .
For convenience of reference , I write down the particular simplest cases of the decomposition .
, *The decomposition of the obliterating operation into pal.tition oblite rating operations is given post S10 .
OF THE ROOTS { SYSTEMS OF 55 .
I also give the developed expl.essions of a few of the artition operators .
Thus 0-1 The mode of operation of the biweight operators in the separation theory is now manifest .
56 .
Let ' be any two pa , rtition operators of the same or different biweights .
Representing them for brevity by , we have wherein the multiplication on the left denotes successive operation , the bar on the right denotes symbolical multiplication , and the symbol denotes explicit differentiation on the operand regarded as a function of symbols of quantity only .
It is easy to establish the result for brevity .
Hence and or at full length the fundamental law of multiplication ( compare Art .
15 ) .
Also or that two partition operators are commutative .
57 .
The left hand side of the result just reached is called by SOPHUS LIE the " " sammensetzung \ldquo ; or " " Combination\ldquo ; of the operators which appear .
SYLVESTER bas also called it the ' AlterIlant ' of the two operators .
The whole of partition operators forms an infinite group in co-relation with an infinite group of transformations\mdash ; We can state the theorem :\mdash ; " " The Combination or Alternant of any two partition operators vanishes Considering the partial differential equation and ny function which is a solution , then must be also a solution , since " " If and ) be any two partition operators , and a solution of the equation ; then will be also a solution of the same equa ion 58 .
Consider now the partial differential equation of Art .
51 , Assume the separable partition to be , so that the operand is a linear function of separations of this partition .
The effect of the partition operator is the production of terms each of which is a separation of the partition * ' Theory dcr Transformationsgruppen , ' Leipzig , 1888 .
'Lectures ou the Theory of Reciprocants .
' ( ' Americau Journal of Mathematics , ' and elsewhere .
) OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF ]{jQUATIONS .
Observe that separations of this partition cannot be produced by any other of the partition operators which present themselves on the left hand side of the differential equation .
Hence if the operand fies the differential equation it must also satisfy the differential equation .
59 .
This important theorem may be enunciated as ] Theorem .
If a function , expressed in terms of separations of a given monomial symmetric function , be by a biweight operator it must also be annihilated by every partition operator of that biweight As regards the calculation of Tables of Separations of Symmetric Functions , this is the cardinal theorem .
As an example of its application I propose to utilise it for the purpose of the function ) as a linear function of separations of .
The law of expressibility shows this to be possible , for is a partition of the biweight 31 .
Remarking that the ation ( cannot occur in the expression , since it is the only separation which produces the monomial when multiplied out , I put .
A monomial symmetric function is caused to vanish by means of the operation of the biweight operator if no partition of the biweight is comprised amongst its parts .
In consequence of this , only biweight operators which do not cause it to are , and .
Hence all the partition operators of every other biweight operator annihilate the function .
It suffices to employ as annihilators the two partition operators and .
Hence , retaining only significant terms , leading to or MAJOR fAHON ON SYMMETRIC FUNCTIONS Hence -0-1 ; and it is easy to see that , for each of the products on mulcipl i produces a berm , and this monomial is not produced by the development of either of the other two products .
The value of A may , however , be instructively obtained by means of the operator , and .
( Art .
53 .
) Hence and now A is obviously equal to \mdash ; But we may further employ the operator For .
( Arts .
17 , 53 ) , significant terms only being retained ; hence and are equivalent operations in the present case , and performing them on their own sides \mdash ; or Thus \mdash ; \mdash ; .
S 10 .
The Partition Operators .
60 .
In the foregoing a generalisation has been made from a number to the partition of a number in the case of the operations , .
, . .
The possibility of the like generalisation in respect of the obliterating operators , . .
, . .
is naturally presented as a subject for enquiry .
Consider a symmetric function to be the product of monomial functions , and write . .
OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
into ) , 1 , we haVe from previous work . .
Expanding the right hand side and equating coefficients of like prodncts of powers and , we get . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
and so forth , where the are , in to the different terms , obtained by permutation of the suffixes of the functions , . .
In general in the expression there will occur a summation corresponding to each partition of the biweight .
Ifa partition be the summation is 61 .
Thus , when performed a product of functions , the operator bre ks up into as many distinct operations as the possesses partitions .
It is convenient to denote the operation indicated by the summation by , and to speak of it as a partition operator .
62 .
We may now write down an equivalence , where the summation is in regard to every partition of the biweight .
This is , in fact , a theorem for operating with ) upon a product of symmetric functions , and it is consistent with the more simple law previously established .
In particular .
The relations between the partition operators and the partition operators are of great interest .
Recalling the equiyalence ( Arts .
53 and 41 ) .
, which should be compared with the algebraical result .
, there the relations:\mdash ; and so forth .
64 .
Now consider the relation last written .
I say that it may be broken up into three relations , viz.:\mdash ; ; for suppose an operand to be composed of separations of a separable partition .
the performance of the operations on the two sides of the relation THE ROOTS SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
produces the same result identically .
This result is composed of three portions containing separations of the partitions respectively .
Hence be operations which produce the three identically equal portions of the result must be equivalent , and the three relations between the operators therefore follow .
In general , we may say that of the biweight there are many relations veen partition operations there are } ions of the biweight 65 .
The general law of the coefficients will be now investigated .
In the result of Art .
53 , we have to substitute for .
, the sums of the partition operators of weights .
, respectively ; we have then to collect on the right all the products which are associated with separations of one and the same partition , and to equate them to the corresponding operator on the left .
It is evident that this process does not alter the law of the coefficients , and that representing the different separates of the given partition by , .
, and any separation by . .
, we may write Obserye that this is precisely the law which giyes the expression of a single bipart fun ction in terms of separations of the partition I recall the result of Art .
41 , .
, which renders the correspondence between the algebraic and differential theories very striking .
66 .
Reversing the formula as the theory we get the important formula : . .
, MAJOR IvIACMAHON ON SYMMETRIC FUNCTIONS the summation being for every separation . . .
of the partition .
( Compare Art .
43 .
) Observe that in these formulae the multiplications of operations are non-symbolic and denote successive operations .
67 .
Remark the results of operations:\mdash ; . . . .
1 .
Th.e Multiplication of Symmetric Functions .
68 .
The partition operators are of great service in tipliCation .
An example will make this clear .
lt is required to find the coefficient of in the product Put On operating with on the right the result is , since every other term is annihilated ; and since we have therefore .
2 hence Similarly putting . . . . . . . . . . .
we have merely to operate on the left-hand side with the partition operators equivalent to .
in order to find A. OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
5 .
12 .
Symmetric nnctions of fferemces .
69 .
In the unipartite theory there is a transformation which connects Symmetric Functions of the Differences of the roots of the equation . !
with the non-unitary symmetric functions of the roots of the equation In fact , the annihilating operator is in case found to be . . .
The theory of the Invariants and Covariants of a Binary quantic may be thus brought to depend upon non-unitary symmetric functions .
( Vide ' American Journal of Mathematics , ' vol. 6 , p. 131 .
) In the present case , there is also a transformation .
For the purpose in hand , write the fundamental identity in the form function of the differences of the quantities on the left remains unaltered , when we write for the quantities , respectively and .
The coefficient of on the right then becomes which is But Hence is transformed into the general term being Hence any function is transformed into or writing . . .
, this is .
the bar oyer that the multiplications of operators , which arise , are symbolic .
Now , the theorem of Art .
15 , this is the multiplication oting successive operations , and identically .
Hence and the other coefficients are zero .
Hence the symmetric function is con.verted into .
and , if be a function of the differences Hence the necessary and sufficient condition , that may be a function of the differences , is the satisfaction of the linear partial differential equation 70 .
These operators and have been previously met with in the discussion of the symmetric functions connected with the fundamental identity . . . . . . . . .
, but then they played a different ' *Two simple cases of this tant t should be verified by the reader .
is transformed into connected with the ternary quadric .
For is transinto connected with the ternary cubic .
OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
52.3 In that case and were shown to annihilate all functions in which the biparts , respectively , were absent .
Hence , expressing all such functions in terms of , . .
, . .
we have at once a ] umber of symmetric functions of difference of the quantities in the identity . . .
71 .
The differential equation is , as a particular , satisfied the solutions of the nultaneous equations In correspondence therewith we have functions composed of differences , but not of differences .
The functions of differences are represented by the infinite series of monomial symmetric functions whose partitions contain neither of the biparts The generating function for the llumbe of biweight is The iunctions of differences correspond to those solutions of which are not simultaneous solutions and Denoting by any aggregate of biparts from which both and are excluded , we have the system of solutions , , for on operating with the terms destroy each other in Observe that these solutions are of the same weight but not of the same biweight in every term .
The number of solutions of a given weight is given by the function \mdash ; \mdash ; . . . .
MAJOR MACMAHON ON SYMMETRIC FUNCTIONS Hence the whol2 number of asyzygetic functions of differences of a given weight is givcn 13 .
of Finite Order .
72 .
By taking the fundamental identity of infinite order syzygetic relations between monomial symmetric functions were avoided .
Whenever the fundamental identity is taken of a finite order certain such relations of necessity arise .
Professor CAYLEY ( ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 454 , and 'Phil .
Trans 1857 ) takes a fundamental identity equivalent to and finds identically the condition that the expression to the right shall break up into two linear factors .
I take as the fundamental identity and observe that the syzygetic relation must connect monomial symmetric functions , each of which is symbolised by a partition containing more than two biparts .
The symmetric functions must be of the same biweight of the form since the quantities must occur symmetrically with the quantities .
Of the biweight 1 , 1 , there exists no partition COlltaining more than two biparts .
Of the biweight 2,2 , we have the four partitions , and if the corresponding symmetric functions can be linearly connected , so that no fundamental symmetric function of weight greater than 2 occurs , the linear function must vanish .
From the tables , post S 14 , biweight 22 , partition , we find ; the terms involving , and disappearing .
OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF 525 73 This is right , and shows ( changing sign ) that the well-known expression ( discriminant ) is equa ] to , a form which , for the ternary quadric , vanishes at sight .
Another form is 74 .
The expression satisfies the partial differential equation which appertains to the differences of the quantities in the relation This equation is It is not , as a fact , expressible as a function of differences of , because it vanishes altogether for a fundamental identity of the order 2 .
In relation to a fundamental identity of order greater than 2 , the expression does not satisfy the equation of differences .
Although it may be regarded from the above as a vanishing function of the differences , it is convertible into a non-vanishing function by the transformation before given .
The transformed expression is , which satisfies the differential equation S 14 .
The tstruction of 75 .
From the first law of symmetry it has been established that it is possible to form two symmetrical tables in connexion with every partition of every .
As illustrations , I give certain of the results as far weight 4 , inclusive .
We have presented for the weight 4 the biweights 40 , 31 , 22 , 13 , 04 .
The theory of the biweights 40 and 04 is precisely the same as that of the weight 4 in the unipartite theory .
* The one is , in fact , concerned only with the single system of quantities *Vide ' American Journal thematics , ' vol. 11 , and succeeding volumes .
, . .
and the other only with the single system , . . .
We may , therefore , ether the zero elements in the biparts and then proceed to form tables for the several partitions ( unipart ) of the weight which I have already set in the ' American Journal of thematics ' ( vol. 11 ) .
the ' biweights 31 , , 13 , it is merely necessary to calculate the two former , since the tables for the biweight 13 are obviously immediately obtainable from those of the biweight 31 by interchanging the elements of each bipart : ) by writing for There seven partitions of biweight 31 , .
:\mdash ; , and nine of the biweight 22 , .
:\mdash ; .
, Of these the table of gives also the table of by transposing the elements of the biparts , and similarly the table of gives that of .
We have thus 28 tables ; but of these , the four corresponding to the partitions and are mere identities , so that the number is reduced to 24 .
The earlier tables which are necessary are those of the partitions , ) , ) , .
These are now given .
Each table is read according to the lines .
BIWEIGHT 11 .
BIWEIGHT 21 .
tition ( .
OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF .
BIWEIGHT 21 .
Partition .
BIWEIGHT 31 .
Partition .
Partition .
Partition .
Partition .
Partition .
OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
rtition ( . .
1 .
1 .
1 .
1 .
1 BIWFrGHT 22 .
'-0-1 .
MAJOR MAClfAHON ON SYMMETRIC FUNCTIONS Partition . .
Partition .
OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
1 1 OF THh1 OF SySTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
15 .
operty oth 76 .
There is in to the coefficients a very simple and ] ) hich does not come into view with the rtite t so as the tables restricted to the particular cas in which the s partitions ] ) entirely of units .
The property the instant we consider , bition nposed of which are nof all similar .
The law is the whethc ] .
symmetric functions are unipartite , bipartite , or in ) ) tite .
It depends upon the possibility of .
the various tions in a make this clear supp p with a separable titi o .
nine separations may be written down in four follows:\mdash ; .
Group ] ) In Group 2 be seen that the ( 10 of the ) arablepal.tition occul in the separation , while the parts ( 0\mdash ; 1- , ) occur in separation expression opcrty 0 the tions of the rrroul ) .
The groul ) in ( be denoted ) and on the same principle the oups 1 may bc ] by ) , ( 01 ) respectively .
In the ] partition occur twice , and a group results from tion of a rtition of 2 with a ' of 2 .
If , denote numbel of partitions of 2 , the numbel of groups will be .
In general if the of the ] tition occlll , .
times number of groups of is 77 .
The leading property that has been adverted to ; that in the expression .
of single-bipart function by means of tions of a partition posed of , the algebraic sum of the ) in each group of COl.ollary at once follows which will be given in its ) ) 78 .
From the identity of .
: \mdash ; is derived --U-ries relations which ) ress the ntilies c in terms of and symmetric functions of the quantities .
These are given in Art .
24 .
To put the in evidence it is necessary to modify these relations by writing for , so that for the expressions for and become respectively .
In ctny the cofactor of the product . .
is composed of symmetric function products each of which to the group .
, .
The sum of the coefficients attached to the members of this group is obtained by put , ting each monomial symmetric function equal to unity .
The sum in question then appears as the numerical coefficient of the product above written .
Write then so that , and being al.bitrary , . . . . . . . . . . . .
a factor appearing on the right for each biweight .
To find the sum of the coefficients in each group in the case of the expression of the single-bipart functions we have now merely to take logal.ithms when ( Art .
26 ) the functions being or , the sum in each case presents itself multiplied by ! .
Expanding the right hand side after taking logarithms we see that only terms of the form .
can appear .
Hence the theorem:\mdash ; OF THE ROOTS OF SYSTEMS OF EQUATIONS .
5.35 " " In the expression of symmetric function by means of tions of any partition of the same biweight , the rtition of dissimilar parts , the a]gebraic sum of the coefficients in each ironp of separations is zero As regards the cases where the separable partition does not contain dissimilar parts , the group obviously contains but a single separation group has no existence .
We have in fact the expression of by means of separations of The result is clearly \mdash ; .
79 .
The law of group of separations may be verified from the tables .
It is a very satisfactory aid to calculation , particularly in the detection of missing separations .
bIoreover the law embraces symmetric functions other than those symbolised by single bipart .
Suppose the function expressed in terms of single-bipart functions .
The latter may be separately expressed in terms of separations of partitions in such wise that the function in estion will be represented by means of separations of any given partition of its biweight .
The law of the group will hold for the single-bipart functions whenever the separable partition contains dissimilar parts , and moreover , in a product of single-bipart functions the will hold one or mor of the factors is expressed in terms of separations of a partition containing parts .
Hence the only exception occLlr we fin presented a product of the form .
; now if the symmetric function , say whose expression we are considering in connection with a given separable partition , , itself possesses a separation of specification a product of this form will inly , but not otherwise .
Hence the theorem:\mdash ; 80 .
' In the expression of symmetric function , by means of separations of , the algebraic sum of the coefficients in each group of separations is zero rtition MAJOR MACMAHON ON TRTC FUNCTIONS .
no tions of specification but not otherwise The law my be verified in the case of the table of sepal'ations of , for the metric functions , , , , for none of these five functions be so that the specification is .
On the other hand the group does not hold for because the separation ( 20 ) has a specification .
16 .
81 .
All the preceding results be easily extended to the ?
-partite ) eory connected with ?
ystems .
The weights -partite as nlso the parts of the partitions .
As a general rule , suffices appear in the symbols .
The laws of svmmetry and their consequences , the symmetrical , the correspondences between the algebras of ntity and lifferential operation , the partition linear and ob]iterating operators , the law of oups of coefficients ( and in fact the whole investigation fiere proceed with the bipartite theory bove set forth .
The unitite or ordinary theory of the single system is also absolutely included in every respect .
In il applications , results will be chiefly of use in the theory of elimination in the most ge , neral case .
in this regard SCHLAFLI'S memoir .
cit. may be consulted .

