Temperature of ike Brain in relation to Psychical Activity .
83 March 24 , 1892 , Mr. JOHN EVANS , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Spencer Compton Cavendish , Duke of Devonshire , was admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Croonian Lecture was delivered as follows Croonian Lecture.\#151 ; " The Temperature of the Brain , especially in relation to Psychical Activity .
" By Angelo Mosso , Professor of Physiology in the University of Turin .
Received March 24 , 1892 , ( Abstract .
) In his investigations on the temperature of the brain the author has employed , in preference to the thermo-electric pile , exceedingly sensitive mercurial thermometers , constructed specially for the purpose .
Since each thermometer contains only 4 grams of mercury , the instruments respond very rapidly to changes of temperature , and a change of not more than 0*002 ' C. can easily be measured by means of them .
The author has studied the temperature of the brain , comparing it with that of arterial blood , of the muscles , of the rectum , and of the uterus ; his observations were made on animals under the influence of morphia or various anaesthetics , and also on man .
The curves of the observations made show that in profound sleep a noise , or other sensory stimulus , is sufficient to produce a slight development of heat in the brain , without the animal necessarily awakening .
In profound sleep the temperature of the brain may fall below that of the blood in the arteries .
This is due to the very great radiation of heat which takes place from the surface of the head .
The brain when subjected to the action of the ordinary interrupted current rises in temperature .
The rise is observed earlier in tho brain than in the blood , and the increase is greater in the brain than in the general blood-current or in the rectum .
During an epileptic seizure brought on by electrical stimulation of the cerebral cortex , Tewnpevcive of Brown.and Psychical Activity .
pVlar .
24 , P the author observed within twelve minutes a rise of 1 C. in the temperature of the brain .
j|^H As a rule the temperature of the brain is lower than that of the f rectum ; hut intense psychical processes , or the action of exciting I chemical substances , may cause so much heat to be set free in the \ brain that its temperature may remain for some time 0'2 or 0'3 ' C. above that of the rectum .
When a dog is placed under the influence of curare , the temperature of the brain remains fairly high , while that of the muscles and that of the blood falls .
The difference of temperature thus brought about is great and constant .
In one instance , the temperature of the brain was 16 ' 0 .
above that of the arterial blood in the aorta .
Such observations warn us not to regard the muscles as forming , par excellence , the thermogenic tissue of the body .
In order to show how active are the chemical processes in the brain , it is sufficient to keep the animal in a medium whose temperature is the same as that of the blood .
When the effects of radiation'through the skull are thus obviated , the temperature of the brain is always higher than that of the rectum , the difference amounting to 0-5 ' or 0-6 ' C. Observations made while an animal is awake tend to show that the development of heat due to cerebral metabolism may be very considerable , even in the absence of all intense psychical activity .
The mere maintenance of consciousness belonging to the wakeful state involves very considerable chemical action .
The variations of temperature , however , observed in the brain , as the result of attention , or of pain or other sensations , are exceedingly small .
The greatest rise of temperature observed to follow , in the dog , upon great psychical activity was not more than 0*01 ' C. When an animal is conscious , no change of consciousness , no psychical activity , however brought about experimentally , produces more than a slight effect on the temperature of the brain .
The author shows an experiment by which it is seen that , as part of the effect of opium , the brain is the first organ to fall in temperature , and that it may continue to fall for the space of eighteen minutes , while the blood and the vagina are still rising in temperature .
The author discusses the elective action of narcotics and anaesthetics .
He shows that these drugs suspend the chemical functions of the nerve-cells .
In a dog rendered completely insensible by an anaesthetic , one no longer obtains a rise of temperature upon stimulating the cerebral cortex with an electric current .
These results cannot be explained as merely due to the changes in the circulation of the blood .
The physical basis of psychical processes is probably of the nature of chemical action .
In another experiment , in an animal rendered insensible with Presents .
Nl 1892 .
] C. in^j le ten muscle ire tk peratan he aorta W se brain shire ii tlroijl alwayt Wl that tli\lt ; \#187 ; rv cob* ft al state isis , a8 $$ .
lithe When ; fcW ; ettaJ aspart mi# A chloral , the curves of temperature show that when the muscles of a limb are made to contract , the temperature of the muscles rises , but falls rapidly as soon as the stimulation ceases , soon returning to the normal .
This is not the case , however , with the brain excited by an electric current .
Here the stimulus gives rise to a more lasting production of heat ; the temperature may continue to increase for several minutes after the cessation of the stimulation , indeed often for half an hour .
This may possibly explain why , upon an electric stimulation of the cerebral cortex , the epileptiform convulsions are not immediately developed , but only appear after the lapse of a latent period of several minutes .
This experiment may be made to show the elective action exercised upon the brain by stimulant remedies .
The injection of 10 centigrams of cocaine hydrochlorate produces a rise of temperature in the brain of 0'36 ' 0 .
, without any change in the temperature of the muscles or of the rectum being observed .
In a curarised dog , the intervention of the muscles being thereby excluded , the action of the cocaine may produce a rise of as much as 4 ' 0 .
in the temperature of the brain , the author having observed a rise from 37 ' to 41 ' C. This shows that in arranging the calorific topography of the organism a high place must be assigned to the brain .
The author concludes by expressing the hope that the comparative study , by the direct thermometric method , of the temperature of the various organs of the body will enable us to push forward our knowledge of the phenomena of life .
Presents , March 24 , 1892 .
Transactions .
Belgrade :\#151 ; Royal Servian Academy .
Spomenik .
Nos. 10 , 12 , 13 .
4to .
Beograd 1891-92 ; Glass .
No. 30 .
8vo .
Beograd 1891 ; Jovan Bak : Jedan Biographski Zapis .
8vo .
Beograd 1891 .
The Academy .
Berlin :\#151 ; Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde .
Zeitschrift .
Bd .
XXVI .
No. 6 .
8vo .
Berlin 1891 .
The Society .
Bucharest:\#151 ; Societate de Sciinte Eizice .
Buletin .
An I. No. 2 .
8vo .
Bucuresci 1892 .
The Society .
Buenos Airs :\#151 ; Museo Nacional .
Anales .
Entrega 18 .
4to .
Buenos Aires 1891 .
The Museum .
Lausanne:\#151 ; Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles .
Bulletin .
Vol. XXVII .
No. 105 .
8vo .
Lausanne 1892 .
The Society .
Leipsic :\#151 ; Kdnigl .
Sachs .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Be-richte ( Math.-Phys .
Class ) .
1891 .
Heft 4 .
8vo .
Leipzig

