]\gt ; Colour Blindness the Trichromatic Theory of Colour-vision .
By Sir WILLIAM DE W. ABNEY , K.C.B. , D.Sc .
, D.C.L. , F.RS .
Received January 21 , \mdash ; Read February 24 , 1910 .
) Quite recently I have had the good fortune to examine in detail a case of red-blindness in a gentleman I will call X. The results of his observations with the spectrum I wish to place before the Royal Society , as they are confirmatory of the sensation curves of green and blue which I obtained with my own eyes .
These curves are given in my paper read on May 18 , to the Royal Society , and printed in the 'Philosophical Transactions ' of that year .
* The nination of X lasted several half days , so that there was ample opportunity to repeat observations , an opportunity which is rarely afforded me by casual cases which from time to time I examine .
X is completely red-blind ; he perceives no sensation of red whatever .
In his youth he was accustomed to call grass red , but he explained it was due to his learnt that the brilliancy of the green which represents the colour of grass to the normal eye was sometimes called red .
He had no inclination whatever to call any colour yellow : green he called green , and the shades of yellow and red which contain a little green he called dark green .
He matched a green ( to normal colour-vision ) in the spectrum with the white of the electric arc light .
The standard scale number ( S.S.N. ) of his match was , to which he invariably came back time after time .
On the less refrangible side of this " " neutral\ldquo ; point he called all the spectrum colours green ; some near the neutral point were to him pale , then below was pure green , and lower still , in the red , dark green .
On the more refrangible side of the neutral point he called all colours blue ; those near the neutral point were pale , those further on blue , and in the violet dark blue .
He saw no violct as a separate colour .
He matched it with dark blue .
Parenthetically it may be remarked that this accords exactly with the results given in the paper alluded to , where it is shown that violet consists of blue and red sensations , and that the red in the violet is scarcely visible when the retina is fatigued with red .
The maximum luminosity to X in the prismatic spectrum is close to S.S.N. 46 , which rees with the maximum of the green sensation " " Modified Apparatus for the Measurement of Colour and its Application to the Determination of the Colour Sensations Colour Blindness and the Trichromatic Theory , etc. 463 in the above-named paper .
The luminosity of the spectrum was taken by X : on two or three occasions , and the results are iven in Table I , Column IX .
It should be stated that the method of measuring the luminosities was that given by General Festing and myself in our paper on Colour Photometry .
* The actual readings of 's luminosities are , by chance , double of those given in the sensation curves of green and blue when added together ( see Table I , Column VIII ) .
In any case , the reduction of 's readings would have been made to them to the same maximum as that of the green ' : sensation curve .
The reason for this will be given later .
It will be noticed that all 's readings in the , yellow , and green are very closely the same as those iven for the lmninosity curves of the green and blue sensations when added together .
In the blue and violet they are slightly larger ; this , perhaps , is due to a difference in the absorption by the yellow spob .
If the red componenlt had been added to the blue sensation curve in this last region , the of X would be much below the compounded luminosity .
Primd facic this is additional evidence of the absence of the red sensation in the violet as seen by X. In the next series of observations by X it will be seen that his luminosities of the different parts of the spectrum are confirmed .
These observations were the matching in luminosity and " " hue\ldquo ; of a patch of white light by a mixture of two colours , one on each side of the " " neutral\ldquo ; point .
Two standard places in the spectrum were chosen , in each of which was placed a slit\mdash ; one in the red , in which it was known that the blue sensation was absent the green sensation was present , and the other in the violet in that position in the green sensation was absent .
The relative luminosities of these two rays when passing equal apertures of slits was determined by X : that in the red 2 , and that in the violet .
These luminosities , taken on a different day to those on which the luminosity ryeS were well with the luminosities shown by the curve at these points .
The observations were made as follows : slits were first of all kept in the standard places and a series of matches made with the white by or closing the slits till the right hue was acquired .
The luminosity of the white patch when it matched in luminosity the mixed colours ( the two .
pavches being in contact with one another , each being inch square ) measured by introducing , into the path of the beam ; it , sectors , the apertures of which opened and closed at pleasure during rotation .
The aperture of the sector indicated the white luminosity .
The relative widths of the slits were measured by placing a lens of very short focus in the path of * Bakerian Lecture , ' Phil. Trans 1886 .
464 Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour Blindness the [ Jan. 21 , I !
one of the slits .
This gave a magnified image of the aperture on a distant screen on which a k-mm .
scale was fastened .
When the aperture of one slit was measured the slide in the spectrum carrying the slits was moved , so that the second slit was illuminated by the same colour .
The slide was then moved back to the position it first occupied , the small lens moved away .
and fresh readings were taken .
( Care was taken that the small lens always occupied the same place in relation to the first slit when it had to be replaced .
) When a series of ervations with the slits in the standard positions had been made , the red slit was moved to the sodium light and a fresh series made with the first slit in that position and the second in the standard position in the violet .
A series of readings was made as before .
The " " red\ldquo ; slit was then moved into various positions between S.S.N. and the neutral point , the " " violet\ldquo ; slit remaining fixed and matches made with the white .
When this was finished the red slit was placed at and matches of white made with the violet slit when in different parts of the spectrum on the more refrangible side of the spectrum .
( The light was chosen for the " " red\ldquo ; slit , as it contained a larger amount of green sensation than the standard position , which was convenient .
) Where the width of either or both of the slits was very small , the aperture to be measured was increased by placing in the path of one or both of the rays a small cardboard sector with fixed apertures .
After measuring the apertures they were one or both diminished according to the aperture of the cardboard sector .
The method by which the composition of the different rays was determined is shown below , two examples illustrating it .
The " " red\ldquo ; slit was placed at S.S.N. , the violet slit at the standard place S.S.N. .
The equation to match white was , in terms of slit apertures , White .
( i ) Increasing this equation to make 100 white , we have White .
( ii ) The standard equation with S.S.N. 's 56.82 and , in terms of slit apertures , had been found to be ( 56.82 ) ( 9.11 ) ( iii ) Equating ( ii ) and ( iii ) , we get ( 48.8 ) ( 56.82 ) ( 9.11 ) 1910 .
chromatic Theory of Colour-vision .
465 Multiplying the right-hand members by 2 and respectively , we get , after dividing by 75 , the luminosity of S.S.N. as in luminosities ( G.S. and B.S. being used as the symbols of green and blue sensations ) .
; Again , for S.S.N. we have the following equation:\mdash ; ( 46.23 ) ( 9.11 ) \fnof ; g , ( 46.23 ) ( 9.11 ) or Equating this with ( iii ) and converting the slit apertures into we get G.S. B.S. Luminosity of S.S.N. In this manner the luminosities of the different to X were worked out .
The following is a table of the final determinations:\mdash ; S.S.N. S.S.N. 35 .
25 .
9 .
These figures were plotted and a curve drawn through the points .
The following table was then constructed from the curves .
5 Io Gandard 55 FIG. 's Colour Curves .
( Red Blind .
) 466 Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour Blindness and the [ Jan. Column I is the Standard Scale No. ( S.S.N. ) , Column II is , Columns III and the green and blue sensation curves derived from 's equations , Column his luminosity curve by the addition of III and , Columns VI and are the curves of the green and blue sensations taken from the paper in the ' Phil. Trans Column VIII is the luminosity derived from the addition of and , Column IX is 's luminosity curve taken direct and reduced as before described .
Table I.\mdash ; Table showing X 's Sensation Curves as Luminosities , also the A different set of observations was also made by X. He was asked to match the various colours of one spectrum by a mixture in a second spectrum of light ( S.S.N. and one ray in the violet .
Ihese omatic Theory of Colour-vision .
bservations were excellently carried out , but as the matching really meant edding white to one of his two colours , his accuracy was not quite ; equal to that he obtained in his white matching .
The results , however , were used as a check on the previous observations .
The results obtained from the measures made by X are valuable for a special reason besides those which are apparent in the pages .
It has frequently been asserted that when luminosities are taken in the way that I have adopted , something is measured which is not luminosity .
' There are various answers to this assertion which it is scarcely necessary to summarise here .
But X , when he made his colour equations , matched { the white with the rays coming through different apertures of slits , and the only luminosity he measured was the luminosity of the two white patches , to ' which no objection can be raised .
It was only when these readings had been made that the question of luminosity entered int , the problem .
Only two -f luminosities of coloured rays were measured and these were applied to his slit apertures to find the luminosity of the different rays .
As mentioned before , the luminosity measured direct and that derived from the equations are practically identical , so that a totally different kind of measurement confirms the direct method of the luminosity .
I now give the reason for adopting as the maxima of the luminosity curves of the red-blind and the green-blind the ures 3 and respectively when that of normal colour-vision is taken as 100 .
There ma .
be sometimes a variation in the sensitiveness to light of persons who have normal vision , but in the large majority of cases the reduction in luminosity required just to extinguish light is the same , always supposing that their eyes are not myopic or Ctmatic .
( If myopic or matic , the small disc of which is seen just before extinction will appear before it does with normal form vision , and the light will be extinguished earlier .
) If the colouring matter in yellow spot varies ( as it often does ) , then the extinction of a blue lay would vary accordingly .
Let us suppose that the form vision of a red-blind , a green-blind , and a person } normal colour-vision to be normal ; then when different .
rays of the spectrum are extinguished by proper means , if the amount of reduction of intensity to extinguish the violet of the spectrum is the same for all when the initial white light is the same for all ( taking into account that the red-blind feels no red sensation in the violet region ) , we may take it that the sensitiveness to light is the same as given by adding ether : those colour sensation curves that are applicable to the three kinds of colour*hose stated Aconcrete example weaning clear.vision aTrans.which implies t blind wested fuminosity aAbney .
Colour Blindness of the different rays of the spectrum .
Their luminosity and extinction are given in the next table ( Table II ) .
The extinction was made when the patch of light made by the ray ( which has the maximum luminosity to normal Table II.\mdash ; Extinction of different Colours of the Spectrum by a Green-blind and -blind .
colour-vision ) was to normal vision one candle at 1 foot distance from the screen .
The extinctions are given in 1/ 1,000,000 of the original luminosity of the rays to each observer respectively ; a second column shows the luminosity of the colour-blind when the maxima are made and 1910 .
] atic respectively .
Another colurnn is added .
which is made by multiplying extinction by the luminosity , which ives the result of the extinction that would 0CCU if every ray were made of a luminosity of one candle .
The numbers are shown graphically in fig. 2 .
From this method of , the : extinctions it is no mattel if the ) sorption by the yellow spot is greater in one case than another , since all rays are reduced to the huminosity of one candle at 1 foot distance from the screen .
1o .\mdash ; Rerl Grecn Blind Extinction having to the Lnminosity of Candle .
In the violet , in which there is no sensation , S.S.N. 's 10 to the average extinction for the ) -blind is just , whilst it is for the red-blind .
The ratio of the first to the second is thus 31 to 100 .
This should be the ratio of the blue sensation ( B.S. ) alone to the blue and red sensations when both exist .
In the table the curves and percentages of sensations in the violet the ratio taken to 100 .
( The VOL. LXXXIII.\mdash ; A. 470 Sir W. de W. Abney . .
Blindness and the [ Jan. 21 , reason for adopting a ratio is evident if it is remembered that the red sensation is before the blue .
) aIn , ' Part III , by the author and General , 'Phil .
Trans , 1892 , the average extinction of S.S.N. 's 10 to 16 is 121 , which within limits of error of observation is the same as the ) -blind , viz. .
This was to be expected .
It appears , , we are justified in assuming that the total to which the green- and red-blind and normal colour-vision are sensitive are as the areas of the curves of minosity with the maxima , and 100\mdash ; which are 582 , , and 830 .
In the trichromatic theory of colour-vision , the three sensations of red , reen , and blue are each totally distinct , and in complete red-blindness one of these two nsations , green and red , is ] absent .
It therefore follows , if this theory is not mcrely a hypothesis , the luminosity curve of tlJe red blind , if added to that of the green-blind , when the ) numbers are taken as maxima , should cvive the inosity curve of normal colour-vision , with one luminosity curve of the blue sensation in addition .
For red-blind luminosity is composed reen sensation blue sensation , the -blind curve of red sensationblue sensation , and the normal colour- vision curve of all three sensations .
) the addition of the led-and lind luminosity curves we have that of normal coloul'-vision curve , together with an extra blue sensation .
The luminosity of the blue sensation is very small compared with the other two , and ay vary slightly , as said before , to diffcrence the absorption by the yellow spot , so that roughly the addition of the red-blind and greell-blind curves should be very close to the curve of normal vision .
We will , however , take , in the first place , 's luminosity curve and luminosity curve only , which should give , when added together , the normal colour-vision curve closely , as only one blue sensation curve will be found in the compounded curve .
Table III gives the results .
The comparison of the compounded curve with that taken direct by the normal colour-vision eye shows how closely they are adike , and the similarity is very remarkable , that ctlrves of three rent persons have to be used .
In the table , Column I is the S.S.N. , Column II the , Colunm III shows 's luminosity , Column is the green sensation of X in luminosity , Column gives the csults of the addition ] 's luminosity to , whilst Column shows the luminosity curve for normal colour-vision .
( iolumns and have to be compared together to test the strength of the theory .
' As a further test , the next table ( Table ) contains the luminosity curves of three green-blind ( including ) and of four red-blind .
The mean curve 1910 .
] Theo } iS ruary , 1910 ) .
of each kind of colour-blindness is taken and added together .
In the last column the normal luminosity culve , with one extra blue sensation , is shown .
to the Hearing both 's and 's colonr blindness is redblindness , the only difference between them that the latter has a shortened spectrum .
I am unaware ow the shortened spectrum call be legitimately accounted for on this theory , but it is perfectly easy to understand on Young-Helmholtz trichromatic theory , and the evidence , adduced aboye would ) difficult over It may be remarked that it is only when an hypothesis colotll-vision is submitted to quantitative measurement that its correctness or otherwise can be refuted .
If the facts above given do not fall in with what I call the hypothesis of colour-vision , that 472 Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour Blindness and the [ Jan. 21 , Table \mdash ; Luminosities of Three Green-blind and Four Red-blind .
The Niean Lumi .
nosities of the Red- and Green-blind are added together and compared with Luminosity of the Normal ision , to which an extra Blue Luminosity is added .
blind . . .
requires further consideration .
There are many assertions made on behalf of this latter theory which require experimental proof .
For instance , it has been stated recently in print that the .
yellow of the spectrum does not cause " " fatigue\ldquo ; for the and green .
If this be a fact it would be , in all probability , a separate sensation which , according to the Hearing theory , it is .
According to experiments , made with my own eyes and others , the yellow does fatigue both the green and the red perceiving apparatus ( wherever such " " apparatus\ldquo ; may be situated ) .
If the yellow is compounded of red and green sensations , as it is in the trichromatic , the fatigue of the red apparatus or of the green apparatus should alter the hue of the yellow .
If , , \ldquo ; : .
Xq sAtoqs le } asaI ou an ou unol aTIJi ctIt o.Sa U1JU00 ?
ptIB p nb dn pa.1 dn I '

