]\gt ; On a new Refractometer .
.-y .
" " On a new Refractometer for measuring the Mean Rcfractive Index of Plates of Glass and Lenses by the employment of Newton 's Rings .
By G. W. ROYSTON-PIGOTT , Cantab .
, F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. , F.C.P.S. Received March The instrument depends upon two principles :\mdash ; I. The distance through which an image is displaced by refrnction through a plate .
II .
The exquisite eness of contact-films ming the orders of Newton 's rings and the central pot .
1 .
It is known that when the index of is or ) , image is formed by a phte parallel sides at a distance earer to the eye the observer equal to of the thicLness of be plate .
fndeed if be the ness n the isplacement is generally If , , an instrument could be devised hich Otlld with ccuracy measure the of the refrncling am time distance by which the of points on its fnce isplaced ards by efrnction , data could be iued f he alue of The instrument httS i ) ssumed its present fter n ) constrncions reconstructions .
I led to ) of he tion of by fi.eqnCllt accidents ] ) -an-inch the nlicroscope , ) Iestroyed 01 cracked the glass ers ) lied to he objccts or " " slides Now , so to , he .
case really the ] evated i of the ) , raised bout wo thirds of the ] ness of this .
By efore , efraction of the glass and its , such , so able in many valuable obiects , might be as oided .
determinc the index of refraction of such , frequently 1 'rom the hundredth to the thotlsandth of sometimcs being destructive to the most ) } llithcrto tbc method of the index by he isms mild of { he mnteri queslion , ] cd in hc As mple of the of the instrunlcllt , some nrly iJJch thic irked B , gnve on three trinls 894 Dr. G. W. Royston-Pigott on [ Mar. A thin glass cover about one hundredth of an inch thick The optical .
a plate of glass , ( where is the of the and tho conj gate focus ) , points out the objcct is on the facc , qucntly instrument the index re dily found to places of decimids in -glass , The of to lead to the 100 , of an inch llow secmed desirable .
necessary not only to measure thickness , but ation of the ithiu the substance of the plate .
The elicacy of of a poiut under a good nucrosco seemed to afford am exquisile test of distance .
At first the point of an made to touch the " " plate , he bClew m the axis of the microscope .
The point as into focus , or its .
The refrncting plate was microscope lemiining mdisturbed .
The screw was then anced u its point came into focus ; the point now occ.upied the ecisc position just before occupied by its image .
This as then read off and the thickness of the plate by successivoly the by the screw the point first its lising to the same position of a already on the npper II .
At this of the resetu.ch it occurl'ed to the lvritcl .
to substitute a minutc plano-convex lens , iixed to the encl of the screw , and endeavour to produce contact-films , especially the spot of Newton 's rings .
IJJ endel the colours of these rings gorgeous by reflccted light , thiu ) icce of glass wao fixed at angle of behind the it hole in the tube or " " body\ldquo ; to admit light lamp ; the object-glass then condeused sfroug light upon the .
surfaccs , the spot out utifully bl and defined in the field of the microscope .
This air or other fluid ened betn een the lells the surface .
Aftcr fixing } lenses , I dius of curl turc of of an inch the most con for tho ) field of of con1876 .
] a new Refractometer .
venience was accorded by using a minute film of -oil , formed by repeatedly iping the surface the screw-lens .
tact was then lded instantly ) the two surfaces by a brilliant flash of colours .
One thiIlg appeared certniu , the various colours oould be duced iu perpetually vanishing , always lting from the centre .
I counted no less thau of colour in the central part , from the bhck spot of perfect contnct ( within the half-millionth an ) and the final eyanescence of the last .
by slight movements of the screw .
the pose o illuminating the of contact of the lens\ldquo ; with the plate under exaulination , I a minute -nngled prism the lens .
This giving totally re , flected ] ) rovided adhered to the surface of the , nfforded the mealls of making by ordinary bsel v. the rings of vton , pale , by transmitted great the prism-lens attached to the end of steel measuring-screw , is the bright tion of the contact surfaces , the all opaque extremity of the screw with deulty ascertained .
The whole method finding the fractive i of a thin plate of ' itself , then , into the best iustrumental means for a fiducial visible and illuminated point truly and steadily through measurable , and with a good microscope the precise position of evanishmeJlt in out of focus , and detcrmining the focal points under corrcct collimatiolts .
After many the form dopted :\mdash ; A steel cylinder vely accurately turned dea .
the centres being fixed the object betweell them ) , inches long and i in ; upon this screw-threads ( very ncarly inch ) very patiently formed .
The front pnrt of the cylinder passes smoothly ( at first air-tight like a piston ) throngh a collnr of into which it had been very slowly and carefully gromld the cuttin -powder and oil ) ; at about two inches of other end formed a screw as described , a } ery exact lent to ' by a celebrated optician .
It foumd that in so delicate an opel.ation as coloured films , touching any part of the instrument caused them to flash ftnelV colom .
It was necessary to obviate , then , all mechatlicnl Springs so commoll in micrometers to obviate " " loss of time\ldquo ; to introduce , from , very riable erlolB : after time I was compelled to ndon their use altogether .
The constant force all dead now introduced ; in order to compeusate possible tions iu truc spiral form of individual thrcads ( every one hich as 11 , a , so as 396 Dr. G. W. Royston-Pigott on [ Mar. ntly to cmbracc ( micrometers of the usual form ) the ) number of thrcads in every surement , so that on the iLvera esalne numbel of threads probnbly lepresented the snme d. In the case a spring is more and mole compressed iind the numbel ' of threads embraced by the nut is constantly increasing ( although some lsating { ction may alise ) , the screw and parts are certainly submitted to and uncertain conditions .
Another , of erlor arose , of rotation .
the usual form of miclometer construction ( a nut with a constant change in the number of threads embraced\mdash ; a , one think , to all delicate ) , the next difficulty was to insul .
G to the steel sclew { bsolutc nvilhout r shake or motio { this purposc slides } ) crc also bandoned .
This action , the nlost important palt of { hc instrument , should now be described .
A lever is { ffixed to the cylindcr of steel and right ngles ; it calries au adjustnble weight .
This slides upon a flat edge formed parallel to the axis of the stoel by a most careful process , tested by iLrefully p spirit-level allelism .
On liftin tYht slightly , fhc lever otates the screw a small ngle ; and this er a test of efficieIlcy of the action of the greatest sensitiveness .
A further action put iJlto motion by a fine screw gives to the dvance of the ming surface , ) -lens , a emcIlt of the millionth an inch .
Supposing that the recording-wheels need s turns , the and level { ance 011 the smooth cdge fo be formed ] with the axis of the screw .
The constancy of the weight the screw fiducial osition , as its bility to rotate on ils .
An error of one edth of th inth in ) ] edge old produce error of the of less mount thttn the ndth of an inch * .
the ) fulccs hOlel'y slovly , as hcels rotate the nut upon the screw , thmt this error ppears to be almost destroved .
-head ce of wheels the number of turns 1 ] the .
The instrument is and lcads to of , from the of jllch to the hundred-thonsnndth .
heels , ided i ] OS and 100 teeth , 11111 a piJlion of ten urying a the hund dndths of inch .
The end of he } th ] fhis gc nccul tely turned ground , stops and spring to mffi p of glnss , if , iu one Tho { ol he on le ) be } , tion bout proporlio ] or to is and hc lwo ndtL 1 ) of lulion is two ulh 1876 .
] new Refractometer .
position .
The of the scro ) and of oscopc are refully { nljnsted in line , so as to commoll c In Ycly thin ftll objecti ) of inch Las been found , of IIigha beautiful hadf-inch the lenses ccmellted tether with , so as ro tho greatest possibl penetration .
The body of the microscope is bout C inches long .
The whole is placed { of about Its ccurncy depends on the the Vitys b with equal pressure , ) , on the ' poppet of jeweller 's enlploved to the It to say on method of the instrument .
1 .
B , y t ) nitted \mdash ; The is daylight , and the small colldellsel is then used to throw a upon the minute prism , hich is thejl leflecled up microscope .
A minute drop of is on the lellS { the of scre and then off .
lens is then a little the stage , and the plate of lass to be sured is upon it .
microscope is -inch , inch , ' iuch ccording to the of the plnte to bc examined .
The nucroscope is then focused upon under of plate .
The micrometel heels set tion .
Tho ) rises into .
The instant of is .
out of the of oil-drop .
] cIennsings or ipings of { hc lcns beforo oil The film expands acts hlest lnoement ; with little ctice the eyc detecls the ) osition of connct .
The inslrument is hcn Initial eadiug f a piccc of ' ' -ghss\ldquo ; dredth of inch thiclr , The removed and ftllced until ils just came into focus .
The lvns from of the glass and ) ocess the diug at the contact found llot to bo an inch .
1h0 by sing it , the for 398 On a new Refractometer .
Initial $ [ Mar. Thickness lion oimage .
distance of image from upper surface .
Therefore I obtained from Mr. ning -eral square pieces of flint of varying density and colom , and found by a series of measurements\mdash ; Value of for mean rays .
A. Clear white flin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B. Yellow and heavy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C. Yellowish and very heavy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
D. yellow , and the heaviest of them all . .
2 .
By ht.\mdash ; Far more interesting are the phenomena developed by reflected light , throwing the light laterally upon the illclined transpnrent plane withill the microscope , the object-glass of which acts its own condenser .
The most beautiful colours are deve- loped on contact , either with a ] of or kerosine .
The central spot of final contact is of grey-black , surrounded with its succession of Newtonian rings of beauty and per- fection , flashing through numerous challges of colour for each ckness of film aried by the micrometer-screw .
The instant of the formation of the blnck spot film thickness 0 inch ) determines the place of contact , .
the fiducial point of zero , with a precision scarcely equalled other known method of linear measurement by means .
It be readily obtained with accuracy .
This impoltant point ( the zero ) of the obserlations depends not upon thin spider line or engraved line , but upon the mation of a bold ) circul spot whose di meter is variable and dependent upon the curvnturo of the lens employed .
Where endurance is desired , small conl eleJlS can be cemented to the prism at little expense .
The jour of microscopic kerosine oil-drops persistently to the StIlfacc of tho cJlS , spife of repeated vipings , is of notice .
On the of lens to under of undel notice , the ttered drops suddenlv coalesce , shooting into il of varying ] On one occahion oil-drop , hmldredth of inch in il bright thiJl r of light , -Jens by the of the screw .
It- eously then ) read out rapidly hibited 1876 .
] On a Nammalian Ovum in an early Stage .
wilhin its centro sudden display of minnte but coloured lings , in this by intelior ilected 1 transmitted light then being employed .
It is not bsolutely ssaly that plate of glass parallel sides bc used .
be manipulated if a .
spot be chosen and the be most djusted to the snmc posilion by of the stop ledge on the .
Less difficult , is glass into lclls of long focns , the side being ) the point , the unmit if possible , selected for ntiou : better still if } slice be cut present a secule fixing of the lells position .
A variety of formed , or Ienses , ) little collvexity , thus be flnids enclosed Description of a Iammalinn Ovum enlly colldition of Dcvclopment.2 By EDWARD ALBERT Prof ssor of Physiology in Univorsity , Londou .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , F.R.S. Rcccived March The present for ition of the of litt d. the cnrly ) ] tlcnf , especially 01 ) of the period ning n hieh the liou of layers is so beeJl under by one , all of the proccss of tion h ) by me deseribed ; and much to be discovered ] xion l delelopncllt alone .
It seems ou this coullt to publish tious b upon this qucstion , limited to two or three evell ) it is ] and comparing obthere be the ) of com ] to sion upon a subject hich volves the of stagc .
1 have been induced by these considel.tiollS to rnish a short description of an { developing ( of the cat ) } cnme hands now fully yeftrs ago , but which I hnd unJly d red account of in the hope of obt ] little more ifllCC with to comparo that I having , vever , hitherto beclldioited , I it to the description lvithout .
dcl{ it nlily for with the of other rvel 8 In { beeu just killod , I uoticed ou ) tho

