162 Thermal Radiation in Absolute Measure .
[ June 16 , The embryonic development , though , in its main lines very uniform throughout the group of the Thoracica ( Lepadidae , Yerrucidse , Balanidae ) , shows considerable variation in some respects , and the variable features are the same in all the species .
The most conspicuous variations are those which affect the processes of cell division .
The details of the mode of growth of the blastoderm over the yolk , from the appearance of the basal plane to the closure of the blastopore , and the resulting cell arrangements vary indefinitely .
After the closure of the blastopore , the yolk endoderm cells present in their mode of division an almost equally great diversity .
The size , shape , and colour of the ova and embryos of a species vary not inconsiderably .
In size and shape the nauplii of a species vary somewhat ; but no conspicuous variations occur in structure , the larvae always showing a great amount of uniformity , even in so minute a feature as the character of each bristle belonging to an appendage .
Minute variations occur in the ornamentation of the carapace , caudal spine , and tail , and ( in Ghthamalus ) in the number of teeth at the end of the labrum .
XY .
" Thermal Radiation in Absolute Measure .
" By J. T. Bottomley , M.A.j D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an account of an experimental investigation by the author in continuation of researches on the same subject which have been already published ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1884 , and ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1887 ) .
In the earlier experiments metallic wires heated by an electric current were used .
The loss of heat from a heated body , however , depends to some extent on the form and dimensions of the body , and it seemed important to experiment on the loss of heat from bodies differing in form from the wires already used , and larger in dimensions .
Accordingly , two copper globes used by Mr. D. Macfarlane in 1872 ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1872 , p. 93 ) were employed for a new series of experiments .
After preliminary experiments ( using the same enclosure which Macfarlane employed , and with the surfaces of Macfarlane 's globes prepared in four different ways ) new apparatus was constructed ; the object being to experiment both with full air pressure and with different amounts of exhaustion of the air , and Macfarlane 's enclosure being unsuitable for this purpose .
In the arrangement adopted , the heated globes were hung at the 1892 .
] The Cerebrum of Oruithorliynchus paradoxus .
163 centre of a hollow metallic sphere , which was connected with the Sprengel pump and surrounded with cold water , and were allowed to cool .
The temperature of the cooling globe was read off at equal intervals of time by means of a thermo-electric junction ; and from these readings the absolute loss of heat per unit of cooling surface , per unit difference of temperatures of surface and surroundings , per unit of time , is calculated .
The details of the apparatus and method of experimenting are given in the paper .
It is enough to sa.y here that the globes were used with their surfaces in two different conditions :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Thinly coated with lamp-black , and ( 2 ) silvered and brightly polished ; and in both conditions the absolute loss of heat , both in air and in vacuum , more or less complete , was determined .
The tables and curves attached to the paper give the details of the results .
To quote one or two examples :\#151 ; With the sooted surface a total loss of heat by convection and radiation of 3'42 x 10-4 c.g.s. units per square centimetre , per second , per 1 ' C. of difference of temperatures of globe and surroundings , was observed with a difference of temperatures of 100 C. , and with the surroundings at about 14 ' C. Under similar circumstances the radiation in vacuum of -|M ( half-a-millionth of atmospheric pressure of non-collapsible gas ) was about 1-40 xl0~4 .
Taking a silvered and brightly-polished surface under the same circumstances , the loss in full air was 2*30 x 10~4 c.g.s. ; and with the highest vacuum and brightest polish obtained , it was reduced 1'80 x 10~6 with in this case a difference of temperatures of 180 ' C. The loss with 100 ' C. difference would be considerably less , but is not known experimentally at present .
The author returns thanks to Mr. James H. Gray , M.A. , B.Sc. , for excellent assistance given ; and expresses himself most deeply indebted , both for assistance in experimenting and calculating of the results , and for most valuable and ingenious aid of various kinds during the course of this work , to his friend Mr. A. Tanakadate , now Professor in Tokio , Japan .
XVI .
" The Cerebrum of Ornith .
" By Alex .
Hill , M.D. Received June 16 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The brain of Ornithorhynclius paradoxus is by no means Avian in type .
All its characters are Mammalian , but it presents certain peculiar features which have been overlooked or misunderstood by the anatomists who have hitherto examined it with the naked eye .
The most obvious and noteworthy departures from the form of brain m 2

