V. " Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases .
" &gt; -No .
VII .
Triphosphonium-Compouiids .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received October 18 , 1859 .
In several previous communications I have submitted to the Royal Society the results which I have obtained in examining the deportment of triethylphosphine with dibromide of ethylene , as the prototype of diatomic bromides .
I have shown that the final product of this reaction is a diatomic salt corresponding to two molecules of chloride of ammoninm .
The further prosecution of the study of triethylphosphine in this direction has led me to investigate the derivatives generated by the phosphorus-base , when submiitted to the actioni of triatomic chlorides , bromides , and iodides .
The most accessible terms of this group being chloroform , bromoform , and iodoform , the changes of triethvlphosphine under the influence of these ag , ents have more especially claimed my attention .
Action of lodoform on Triethylphosphine .
Both substances unite with energy at the common temperature .
In order to avoid the inflammation of the phosphorus-base , small quantities of the materials should be mixed at a time .
The products of the reaction vary with the relative proportions of the two substances .
By adding gradually crystals of iodoform to a moderate bulk of triethylphosphine until a new addition produces nio longer an elevation of temperature , a viscous mass of a clear yellow colour is obtained , which , when treated with alcohol , chaniges to a white powder of crystalline aspect ; these crystals are easily soltuble in water , difficultly soluble in alcohol , and insoluble in ether .
Two or three crystallizations from boiling alcohol render them perfectly pure .
The analysis of this body has led me to the formula C38 1166 P3 13 which represents a compounld of one molecule of iodoform , and three molecules of triethylphosphine , 3 C12 H15 P+ C2 E H3=C 381 46 P3 13 .
Triethyllodoform .
New Compound .
phosphine .
lodoforin thus fixes three molecules of triethylphosphinie , giving rise to the formation of the tri-iodide of a triatomic metal , of a triphosphoniiim corresponding to three mnolecules of chloride of ammonium .
r(C2 H)th X c38 611 PI ( C4H5)3 P3 1I3 L(C4 H[53 J The aqueous solution of the iodide yields with iodide of zinc a white crystallinie precipitate which is difficultly soluble in water , and appears to be slightly decomposed by recrystallization .
It consists of one mnolecule of the triatomic iodide and three molecules of iodide of zinc , C38 146 P3,3 3Zn I. By treating the tri-iodide with the various salts of silver , a series of triatomic compounds is easily obtained , which contain the different acids .
The trichloride furnishes with dichloride of platinum a pale yellow precipitate , which is insoluble in water , but dissolves in boiling concentrated hydrochloric acid .
From this solution it is deposited on cooling in brilliant rectangular plates , which contain C38 H46 P3 C13 , 3 Pt C12 .
I have vainly tried to produce a trioxide which would correspond to the tri-iodide .
The tri-iodide is promptly attacked by oxide of silver , with formation of iodide of silver , and of an exceedinigly caustic fixed base , which remnains in solution .
This base no longer belongs to the same series .
By treating its solutioni with hydriodic acid , or with hydrochloric acid and dicldoride of platiitum , it is at once perceived that the action of the oxide of silver has profoundly changed the originial system of molecules .
Hydriodic acid no longer produces the salt difficultly soluble in alcohol ; by evaporating the solution a crystalline residue is obtained , which easily separates into a viscous , extremely soluble substance , and splendid crvstals of an iodide , very soluble in water and alcohol , but insoluble in ether .
The analysis of this iodide has proved it to containi FC2 113 m C14H PI ' CII HI I4 5 ; s This formula represents the iodide of methyl-triethylphosphoniain , which was formerly obtained by M. Cahours and myself , by acting with iodide of methyl upon triethylphosphine .
The alkaline liquid , obtained by the action of oxide of silver Uponl the tri-iodide , when saturated with hydrochloric acid , yields no longer the platinum salt , difficultly soluble in water but soluble in hydrochloric acid .
In a dilute solution no precipitate whatever takes place , and only after considerable evaporation well-defined deep orange-yellow octahedrons are deposited , which contain rL H c1 II PCI , PtCl = L4 i : } PjCl , Pt Cl2 .
Fromn these results it is obvious that the triphosphoniium-salt , when submitted to the action of oxide of silver , passes over into a monophosphonium-compound .
The latter is not the sole product of the reaction ; I have already alluded to the viscous deliquescenlt substance which accompaniies the iodide of methyl-triethylphosphonium .
This is an iodide , which , in the solution produced by the action of oxide of silver upon the original tri-iodide , exists in the form of oxide .
The latter substance is easily recognized by evaporating the solution of oxide of methyl-triethylphosphoiiium , and adding a concentrated solution of potassa , when the oily globules characteristic of the dioxide of triethylphosphonium separate , which disappear immediately on addition of water .
The metamorphosis of the tri-iodide , under the influence of oxide of silver , is represented by the following equation : A 1 ~~~~~~~C2H 31( 11 ( C , l3l 3PJ+3AgO+3H10=3AgI+ CII H PJ 02 +2 C4 H5 P0 ) HJ The tri-iodide which forms the subject of this Note is not the only product of the reaction between iodoform and trietbylphosphine .
There are other compounds formed , especially when the iodoform is employed in great excess .
The nature of these bodies , which may be divined from the examiniationi of the corresponding compounds in the diatomic series , is not yet fixed by experiment .
I have satisfied myself that chloroform and bromoform act like iodoform upon triethylphosphine .
The phosphorus-base acts , even at the common temperature , upon tribromide of allyl .
The mixture of the two bodies solidifies into a crystalline mass , in the examination of which I am engaged .
The reactions which I have pointed out in this Note have in(luced me to extend my experiments to tetratomic bodies .
The chloride of carbon , , 014 , obtained by the final substitutioni of chlorine for the hydrogen in marsh-gas , appeared to promise accessible results .
On submitting this body , remarkable for its great indifference under ordinary circumstances , to the influence of triethvlphosphine , I have observed with astonishment a most powerful reaction .
Every drop of triethylphosphiue which is poured into the chloride of carbon , hisses like water falling upon red-hot iron .
On cooling , the mixture solidifies into a mass of white crystals , which will be the subject of a special communication .

