OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Charles Brooke was born on the 30th Jane , 1804 .
He was the son of the well-known mineralogist Mr. H. J. Brooke .
His early education was carried on at Chiswick , nnder Dr. Turner ; after this he studied at Rugby ; and from thence he went to Cambridge .
He remained there five years , and graduated in Arts , taking honours as a Wrangler .
During the latter part of this period he studied medicine , and his professional education was completed at St. Bartholomew s. He lectured for one or two sessions on surgery , at Dermott 's School , and afterwards held positions on the surgical staff of the Metropolitan Free Hospital and the Westminster Hospital .
At the latter he continued to lecture till a short time before his death .
In 1844 the Royal College of Surgeons conferred on him an Honorary Fellowship ; in 1847 he was elected Fellow of the Royal Society , at the evening meetings of which he was a very regular attendant , and frequent speaker , especially on physical questions .
He belonged to the Meteorological and Royal Microscopical Societies , and occupied the President 's chair in each of these bodies ; he also at various times served on the management of the Royal Institution , and on the Council of the Royal Botanical Society .
In addition to these he was connected with many philanthropic and religious societies ; and was a very active member of the Victoria Institute and Christian Medical Association .
He was much esteemed in his profession as a surgeon ; and is known as the inventor , forty years ago , of the " bead suture , which was a great step in advance in the scientific treatment of deep wounds .
His published papers and lectures have almost always pertained to the department of physics , mathematical and experimental ; and his more especial work was the inventing or perfecting of apparatus .
His papers date back to 1835 , when he wrote upon the Motion of Sound in Space ; but the work upon which his reputation mainly rests was published between 1846 and 1852 .
This was the invention of those self-recording instruments which have been adopted at the Royal Observatories of Greenwich , Paris , and other meteorological stations .
They consisted of barometers , thermometers , psychrometers , and magnetometers which registered their variations by means of photography .
His method obtained the premium offered by the Government for such apparatus , as well as a Council Medal from the Jurors of the Great Exhibition .
These instruments record automatically , by very beautiful arrangements , the continual changes in the dip and declination of the needle , and in the intensity of the magnetic force .
This could not be arrived at by any amount of personal observation ; and the movements of a spot of light upon the revolving sheet of chemically prepared paper are more to be trusted than the perceptions of the human eye .
The adoption of these instruments at the Greenwich Observatory rendered it possible to reduce the staff of assistants and to dispense with night duty , while they revealed magnetic disturbances of a character which otherwise would probably have escaped notice .
The perfecting of these apparatus involved many considerations both of a mathematical , physical , and chemical nature , which will be found detailed in the V British Association Reports , " from 1846 to 1849 , and in the " Philosophical Transactions " of 1847 , 1850 , and 1852 .
Mr. Brooke also studied the theory of the microscope , and was the author of some inventions which facilitated the shifting of lenses , and improved the illumination of the bodies observed .
He also applied his improved methods to the investigation of some of the best known test objects of the microscope .
( See " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. vii , p. 139 .
) In later years his papers were of a more theoretical character , bearing upon the dynamical theory of electricity , on the nature of electric energy , and on the supposititious character of that ether which is assumed to pervade all matter and space .
These are to be found principally in the " Phil. Mag. " for 1866 , and in the " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xv .
He was also the author of various papers and lectures bearing on the relations of natural science and religion .
He is , however , most popularly known by means of the " Elements of Natural Philosophy , " originally compiled by Dr. Golding Bird , but which after the death of that physician was re-written and enlarged by Mr. Brooke on bringing out the fourth edition .
Since that time new editions have been constantly called for ; the results of more recent discovery have been carefully added , and the book has remained a favourite introduction to the study of the physical sciences , especially in the medical schools .
Mr. Brooke died at Weymouth on the 17th of May , 1879 , leaving a widow and family , and many friends who recognized him as one of the most kindly and modest of men .
He will be remembered on account of his pleasant conversation , or his thoughtful advice , or the quiet influence of his private life , by many who knew little or nothing of his varied acquirements and ingenious inventions .
John Allan Bkoun was born on 21st September , 1817 , at Dumfries , where his father held a school intended for young men about to enter the Navy .
On the death of his father , Mr. Broun , who was then about twenty years of age , became a student at the University of Edinburgh , where he speedily distinguished himself .
Here his attachment towards physical science more especially developed itself and procured for him the friendship of the late James D. Eorbes , who was then Professor of Natural Philosophy at Edinburgh .
About this time ( 1842 ) the scientific world became awake to the importance of cultivating terrestrial magnetism as a branch of cos-mical inquiry , and Sir Thomas MacDougal Brisbane in a very generous manner agreed to establish and maintain a highly equipped observatory at his house at Makerstoun , Dumfriesshire .
Mr. Broun was appointed director of this observatory after a course of preliminary training spent at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , from which he derived much information .
He continued for eight years to be director of this establishment , and in addition to his other duties he discussed his observations at great length in a series of volumes which were published in the ' Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , " of which body Sir Thomas Brisbane was the President .
The production of these volumes must have cost Mr. Broun a great amount of time and thought , inasmuch as while published at an early stage of an important inquiry , they were conspicuous for the ski employed in the development of new methods .
John Allan Broun had now in virtue of what he had done acquired a high reputation as one of the leaders in the science of terrestrial magnetism , and was regarded as one ^ peculiarly well adapted to fill a prominent scientific position whether at home or abroad .
About this time two Professorships in Scotland became vacant , for either of which he would have been a very desirable candidate ; but he had conscientious scruples which prevented him from subscribing to certain formulae which were then insisted on from the holders of all Scotch C1Inl850 Broun left Makerstoun and went to Paris , where he formed the acquaintance of the leading men of science of that capital .
There also he met with the lady who became his wife , Isaline Vallouy , the daughter of a clergyman in the Canton du Vaud , and belonging to an old Protestant family of Dauplnne ( du Val Louise ) , who had fled from France at the Revolution .
This lady and a family of three sons and two daughters are now left to mourn lus loss .
In 1851 , through the influence of Colonel Sykes , Broun was appointed Director of the Trevandrum Observatory , an institution supported by His Highness the Rajah of lravancoie , and ho wont to iv India in the same year .
His work in India was attended with many difficulties , but it was of very great scientific value .
Among other things he wished to obtain observations at different heights , and the following short statement will exhibit in his own words the nature of the difficulties he met with in carrying out this project , all of which were successfully overcome .
" It had appeared to me necessary , " he says , in the preface to his observations , " for a complete examination of the questions to be solved , that observations should not be limited to a single station , but that the standard observatory should serve not merely for the determination of the laws and physical constants at one point , but also for the comparison and co-ordination of the laws depending on differences of height , of latitude , and of longitude .
" With reference to questions connected with difference of height , the Agustia Malley , about twenty-two miles E.N.E. of Trevandrum , the highest mountain in the narrow chain of the Ghats , rising rapidly from the plains of Coromandel and Malabar , possessed the great advantage of being free from the effects of neighbouring high tablelands .
The chief objection to this locality lay in its position , without roads , a day 's journey from the nearest cultivated grounds , surrounded by forests inhabited by elephants and tigers .
The construction of an observatory on this nearly inaccessible rocky peak presented considerable difficulties .
It was doubted , also , whether native observers , accustomed only to the climate of the plaips , could live , or could be induced to try to do so , on a mountain top , which for months of each year remains buried in cloud .
" These and many other difficulties were , however , vanquished , and the observatory , built of wood in the forests about 2,300 feet below the summit , was taken to pieces , carried to the top , and rebuilt there in the first month of 1855 .
" Broun was not likely to spare himself , even under such a climate as that of India , and a deafness , which never left him , was caught in one of his excursions on the hills for the purpose of observing .
He came back to Europe in 1866 , in the hope that medical treatment might remove his deafness .
In this he was disappointed ; he then returned to India for three years more .
On his final return from India he resided , for a time , at Lausanne , and afterwards at Stuttgart , where his whole time was devoted to the preparation of the first volume of the results of the Trevandrum observations .
Of this volume , it is sufficient to say that it is no less admirable than those in which the Makerstoun observations were discussed .
The last six years of Broun 's life were spent for the most part in London , where he gave his whole time and energy to the prosecution of scientific research .
Upwards of two years ago his health began to * give way , and during a stay at Lynton ( Devonshire ) he had , in 1878 , a kind of nervous attack , which was the beginning of his last illness .
He died suddenly on the 22nd November , 1879 .
If Broun occupied the position of a leading pioneer in observational inquiry , he also shared the discomforts of such a post .
He considered no trouble too great in order to procure trustworthy observations , and he would spend an immense amount of labour upon them , when once obtained .
On one occasion , with the purpose of making observations , he lived for about six weeks in a hut on the Cheviot Hills , performing his toilet in the open air , sometimes with mists around him and water nearly freezing .
It has been said of Faraday that his failures must have cost him even more thought than his successes , and the same remark will apply , with even greater force , to an original thinker in observational science like Broun .
Here the testing of every idea entails a laborious investigation , and Broun , whose mind was at once very fertile and very scrupulous , must often have overworked himself before dismissing a subject from his thoughts .
It seems likely that this combination of qualities eventually contributed to undermine his health .
During the latter part of his life he received from the Government Fund of the Royal Society a sum of money to enable him to improve and complete the reduction of the colonial magnetic observations .
But this immediate and apparent responsibility was peculiarly trying to a man like Broun .
The work seemed to go on growing the more he examined it , and he was never satisfied without going still more deeply into the subject than he had already gone .
At length his health began to give way , and the thought that he had not been able to finish these investigations unfortunately hastened the progress of his malady .
It must not be supposed that Broun , while combining scrupulosity and intense devotion to science , was by nature a recluse .
He was , on the contrary , a man of delicate social instincts and well calculated to take an active part in scientific administration .
His deafness , however , prevented this , and during the latter years of his life he was best known to a small , but attached , circle of friends .
Broun was both a magnetician and a meteorologist .
His Makerstoun observations have been already mentioned as being peculiarly valuable for the light they threw , at a comparatively early period , on the changes of the magnetism of the earth .
In 1861 he contributed two very valuable memoirs to the " Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh .
" In one of these he discussed the errors and corrections of the bifilar magnetometer , including the determination of its temperature coefficient , which he showed might be found by a more correct method than that hitherto adopted .
His second memoir was on the horizontal force of the earth 's magnetism , for which he established the annual laws from a discussion of observavi tions taken at various places .
He likewise sliowed that the variations of this element from day to day are nearly the same over all the world .
For these discoveries the Keith Medal of the Royal Society of Edinburgh was awarded to him .
In his first volume of the " Results of the Trevandrum Observations " Broun has given an original and exhaustive investigation of the influence of the sun and moon upon the direction of the magnetic needle ; but his researches regarding the lunar-diurnal valuation of this element form perhaps the most original part of the volume .
Besides having claims to be considered an independent discoverer of this variation , he has certainly increased our knowledge of its laws more than any other magnetician .
He showed that near the equator its law in December was the opposite of that in June .
His observation that the lunar action was reversed at sunrise , and that it was much greater during the day than during the night , whether the moon was above or below the horizon , may be noted as peculiarly likely to throw much light on the theory of the subject .
Broun 's discovery of the simultaneity all the world over of the changes from day to day of the earth 's horizontal force has already been mentioned .
Certain of these changes he found to be due to the moon , while others had a period of nearly twenty-six days .
These last Broun attributed to solar action , and in discussing the subject , in a memoir published in the " Philosophical Transactions " for 1877 , he found that the greater magnetic disturbances were apparently due to actions proceeding from particular meridians of the sun .
This is a subject of very great importance , and its exact meaning has yet to be discovered .
In meteorology Broun has done some very important wTork .
He has shown the apparent simultaneity of the changes of mean barometric pressure over a great part of the globe , and here too be has discovered a period of nearly twenty-six days .
He was the first to commence those systematic observations of clouds at various altitudes that are now so common , and he has likewise pointed out certain relations between atmospheric motions and the directions of the lines of equal barometric pressure .
For his various researches one of the Royal Medals of this Society was conferred on him in 1878 .
It is gratifying to be able to state that Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to mark her sense of the labours of this distinguished physicist by bestowing upon his widow a pension of \#163 ; 75 per annum .

