]\gt ; of daylight .
I hope to be able to make a complete study of the effects described in this note , in the lrse of furthel long-distance tests which are likely to be undertaken shortl A Portable Telemeter , or -finder.\ldquo ; By FORBES , F.PL .
S. Received February ) lIarch 20 , 1902 .
CONIENTS .
1 .
General description .
2 .
The Adie telemeter .
3 .
Double reflection at each end of the base .
4 .
Advantage of placing the object-gJass outside of and behind the 5 .
The double base and hinge .
6 .
Accuracy required .
7 .
The 8 .
Adv.ntages of stereoscopic vision .
9 .
Construction and mounting of the prisms . .
Errors of the base and inge .
11 .
Errors of the 12 .
ments .
( 1 .
) Description.\mdash ; The instrument consists of a folding steel base , 6 feet in length , and a field glass .
The base is a square tube hinged at its middle , and folds up to 3 feet 3 inches .
Each half at each end a doubly rellecting prism .
The rays of light from a distant object strike the outer pair of these four prisms , are reflected at right VOI , .
LXX .
its two outer ends , and two ] reflectors at its middle point parallel to the others\mdash ; all of these plane reflecting surfaces being inclined at to the base .
In all three instruments the object glasses are close to the outer reflectors , the eye-piece or eye-pieces of the telescopes being at the middle of the base .
The three instruments differ in the means of measuring the angle of parallax .
The angle to be measured is small , and if any one of the reflectors be twisted in the plane of vision through a small an , the error produced is double this angle .
This necessitates exact parallelism between the two reflecting surfaces in each half of the base .
Such rigidity cannot be attained in a portable instrument .
Nor can the action of the sun 's rays be prevented from affecting the parallelism without diminished portabihty .
( 3 .
) Double at each end of the Base.\mdash ; I have succeeded in overcoming the necessity for extreme accuracy in the rigidity of the base by replacing the single reflectors by a double reflection at each end of each half of the base .
The angle between the two surfaces producing the double reflection is maintained malterable grinding and polishing these surfaces on a special glass prism. .
I have experimented on many forms of prism , but fig. 1 is exextremely convenient .
Light enters the first prism at the surface AB. .
It is reflected at the two surfaces , DE , which are silvered , and are .
has been found convenient in to replace the lines by balloons tographed on glass .
] 1902 .
] A Tclomet , or .
34 !
} inclined at about to each other .
It emerges at the surface and suffers similar deflection by the second prism , and , if the angle between the silvered surfaces , DE be the same in both prisms , .and if the axes of the prisms ( i.c. , the line of contact of reflecting .
surfaces be parallel , then the emel.ging ray must be parallel to the incident ray .
If the axes of the two prisms be not exactly parallel , a rotation of one prism relatively to the other in the plane of vision , i.e. , in a plane oximately perpendicular to their axes , produces no error ; an a rotation about any other , through any aIlgle , produces an error which is only a small fraction of that angle .
Corlsequently no absolute rigidity in the base connecting the first .
and second prisms is required , as is the case when there is only a slngle reflection at each end of the base .
FIG. 1 .
Path of rays of base prism to binocular of range-finder .
( 4 .
) Advantage of placing the Object Glass oufside of behind the Base .
\mdash ; In all three instruments previously perfected the object glasses are close to the outer prism This necessitates the rigidity of the connection between the two halves of the base as well as between the reflectors constituting each half .
If one-half of the base wers not exactly in line with the other half , the image formed by it would be displaced relatively to the other image .
But when the base has no lens in it to form an image , if the reflecting surfaces be parallel then the emergent rays which enter the telescope must remain parallel to the incident ray , however much the base as a whole be inclined in any direction .
( 5 .
) The Double Base and Hinge.\mdash ; Even when the axes of the prisms are not exactly parallel the two , do not require to be absolutely rigidly connected , and thus it has been possible to introduce a hinge which doubles the portability of the base .
One-half of the base may be rotated with respect to the other about any axis .
Rotation of one-half of the base , either about the line of vision or about an axis perpendicular to the plane of vision , produces no effect except that due to shortening the base by an amount that is immaterial in practice .
Rotation base produces no error if the axes of the two prisms in each half-baso be parallel , and if not parallel the hinge can easily be made suffi- ciently true to prevent an appreciabIe error arising .
Accuracy \mdash ; The angle which has to be measured is the angle between two rays from the distant object to the two ends of the base , and the distance of the object is if is length of base ; and the angle corresponding to any distance is The smallest angle perceptible to the naked eye has been supposed to be A magnifying power of 12 is the highest which can be used in practice without a tripod or other stand .
Hence is the smallest an which can be observed , or an angle .
Now an infantry range-finder must be capable of distinguishing between 2940 and 3000 yards ( 2 per cent Hence the aIlgle b must be at least equal to 0000125 , which gives not less than yards .
Following this argument , I have employed a base of 2 yards ' length in the form of a steel tube of square section , mm. thick , with a hinge in the middle , so that in travelling the 6-feet b. as folds up to 3 feet 3 inohes .
As a matter of fact I find that , owing to the adoption of steleoscopic vision , with which the limit of visibility is far less than the assumed above , the accuracy of the instrument in the hands of a practised observer on a well-defined object is far greatel than 2 per cent. at 3000 yards\mdash ; the limit of accuracy which I had laid down .
( 7 .
) \mdash ; When the is stretched out and the binocular attached , the distant object can be viewed by stereoscopic vision .
The eyes have little or no power of estimating absolute distance by this means , but have the test accuracy in the comparison of the muscular effort required to converge the eyes on objects at different distances .
Two marks are fixed in the focal planes of the binocular , and it has been found best to make this mark in the form of a balloon photographed with a tail-rope hanging down to the centre of the field of view .
The two balloons are almost , but on the left side of the left balloon the letter is marked , and on the right side of the right balloon the letter is marked .
This assists in the focussing of each eye-piece separately , and indic.ates when both eyes are operative .
If the distancs between oculars is wrong , or if the line of the oculars be not horizontal , one of the letters , or , disappears .
One of the balloons is movable by a micrometer screw towards or from the other , so that they can be seen stereoscopically with any convergence of the optic axes of the eyes , and therefore at any apparent distance by turning the micrometer .
The observation consists in turning the micrometer until the balloon appears to be at the same distance as the object .
The micrometer head is divided and marked with distances inversely as the angular movement from infinity .
351 Y902 .
] A Portable ; or The binocular is of the prismatic type and is constructed very olidly , and the inter-objective distance must not vary much when the distance between the oculars is changed to suit different pairs of eyes .
A hinged axis gives the most solid design , and the hinge is so placed as to lie on the plane containing the axes of the objectives .
The distance the objectives is then fairly cons constant .
The balloons would becolne inclined on working the binocular hinge if no special means were used to prevent this .
With this object these glass photographs in the focal planes can rotate , and their mount ng are provided with slides which keep them parallel .
The oca 1 .
The focal length of the object-glasses is 243 mm. The pitch of the micrometer screw is mm. The micrometer screw has a drumhead attached , 8 cm .
diameter , with the periphery divided into 100 equal parts for purposes of adjustment .
On the outer face a spiral groove is cut , making three and a-half turns , and a radially sliding pointer , with a pin run ng the spiral groove , enables any range to be read off over three and a-half turns .
The scale marked on the groove reads off distances directly , from infinity down to 500 yards .
( 8 .
) Advantages of .\mdash ; A single telescope might have been used , but the difficulty of being sure that the images are single or double is very great and leads to error .
With the binocular two images of the balloon leap together so soon as attent on concentrated on them , and the balloon seems to be at some distance ; so with the distant object , however faint , the two images leap togsther when the attention is concentrated on them , and the object 's distance can be with the apparent distance of the balloon .
I find that I can thus appreciate an angle of with the naked eye , or with a power of 12 .
( 9 .
) Constrnction of the Prisms.\mdash ; The prisms are mounted by being sunk and cemented in a steel plate .
The clear aperture of the transmitting surfaces is -inch square .
They are mounted in a tube of rectangular section which forms the base .
At first I preferred aluminium , ) since I was able to obtain steel tubes of the requisite quality and inch thick I have used them .
They are 1 inch high and inch broad .
The two prisms are groun and polished as one , and cut ; and I find that with the spec a glass used the cutting does not distort the surfaces .
The whole prism is lcluded in the tube , and this can be done only by making the angle between reflecting surfaces a little less than , this angle being absolutely the same in the two prisms of a pair .
Each prism held to the bottom of the square tube by three screws , which engage in the base plate of the prism , the scrsw heads abutting on the square tube , and the prism bed-plate being pressed from it by three pieces of clock spring with a hole through which the passes .
Two of the are in line with the base tube , the third is at a right angle .
Thus , 1 if Let , and PS -PZS , and ZPS PZ , which is a very quantity ; then and are very small .
, then in practice is small .
OZ unity .
Then we have ( 1 ) . . . .
( 2 ) ( 3 ) .
Now the first prism deflects the line ) the direction of the object , to or the direction of the image , where , and the secolld prism deflects this line back to .
where .
Also , since the angle between reflecting surfaces is equal in the .
of prisms , and generally taken equal to , we after rection ishaveTherefore verti aacement efleotion omage v Also from ( 2 ) , and therefore by ( 4 ) ) The error of observation is the angular deflection of the image horizontally , supposed to be in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the second prism , altsr reflection the two prisms , and is or error . .
( 7 ) .
Now , translating there , we see from ( 6 ) that the vertical displacement of the image by one-half of the base is : , : which is clearly a maximum for a fixed value of , if when , and This occurs when the plane cutting one prism through its axis is parallel also to the axis oi the other prlsm ; and , if I be the greatest possible inclination of the axes of the two prisms to each other , through bad adjustment , then the vertlcal dlsplaoenlent cannot exceed .
Ifor one half-base and .
Ifor the whole base .
Again , we see from meant of the prisms , which is clearly a maximum for a fixed value of , if when and This occurs when the plane parallel to the axes of the two prisms is at right angles to a plane cutting the prisms symmetrically .
And , if I be the greatest possible inclination of the axes of the two prisms to each other , th ough bad adjustmsnt , then the error in the angle used for finding the range cannot exceed for the half-base and 2 for the whole base .
Also it appears that there is no error in this angle when the axes of both prisms are in one plane cutting the prisms symmstrically .
Similarly , if the plane of the axes is at right angles to this plane there is no vertical displacement of the image .
It is found that with ordinary care in use the maximum value of I need never exceed one or two minutes of arc for a long period after the adjustments have been made .
Now , in order to attain an accuracy of 2 per cent. ( 60 yards ) in 3000 yards , we may not have an error greater than seconds of arc .
Hence , if I amount to 1 ' , we must have less than nearly but the diameter of field of vielv of the instrument is Hence it is possible to observe the object in any part of the field of view , without error amounting to the prescribed limit , if the inclination of the axes of the.prisms to each other does not exceed 1 ' .
And by bringing the object viewed to the centre of the fields limited by the outer prisms the accuracy of the base is practically perfect .
The only defect of the hinge whioh caIl lead to error is due , as stated above , to a rotation of one-half of ths base with respect to the other half of the base , about the line of the base .
When this occurs , the two fields of view seen by the two eyes not the same , although the object whose distance is required may be in both fields .
The conclusions arrived at in this section prove that , if the prisms in each half base were parallel to within , then , if one image caoe seen in any part of its field when the other is in the centre of its field , the error is under the limits assigned , and this would involve an error of 1o in the allignment of the two halves of the base .
It would be very incon venient to have the two fields of view differing so much in appearance ; and this error never amounts in practice to the prescribed limit .
Purtable Telemeter , or , 355 ( 11 .
) Errors of the Binoculars.\mdash ; If the binoculars be not held level , the plane in which the measurement of angles is made may be inclined to the plane of vision .
The error amounts only to the versed sine of the angle of inclination , and to produce an error of only 1 per cent. the distance , angle would have to be at least The binocular liable to an index error , which can bc corrected by setting the index of the scale if its be known .
This error would be a constant source of trouble if the rument were not strongly made .
Even so , however , the index must be set whenever the distance between oculars been changed for a new observer .
To test the index of the binocular , choose any object of unknown distance .
First use the instrument without the base , and move the index to read infinity .
Then use the base .
Suppose the distance recorded to be 3000 yards .
Deduct , because the distance between the objectives is 1/ 30 of the whole base .
Set the index so as to read 2900 yards ; the index error is then correoted for all distances .
Temperature may have an influence on the binocular by expanding to different extents the metal connecting the object glasses and the metal connecting the balloons in the focal planes .
Most of these metal connections are a solid brass hinge which cannot be subject to variations of temperature in its parts .
But the other parts of the connections , in the bodies of the telescopes , might vary one or two degrees in temperature .
The distance between the cenbres of the objectives or balloons , independent of the hinge , is about 25 mm. , but cannot be measured accurately .
Vith brass 25 mm. , each degree Centigrade expands it mm. Now the focal length of the objective is 143 mm. , and the angular permissible error being , the difference between the distances by whiuh the two objectives and the two balloons are separated must not vary to the extent of 143 mm. mm. due to C. This difference of temperature is not to be expected in practice .
In cases where dista11ces may have to be measured with the utmost exactness the index error should be corrected , in the mann er described above , at the time of observation , and this will correct for temperature .
To do this easily the binocular is mounted to ths base by a hinge , which enables the base to be removed during the preliminary observation with a minimum of time and trouble .
( 12 .
) actical Alju stments.\mdash ; The fields of view of the binocular are limited by two round diaphragms .
The outer prisms show a square field with ragged edges in the round field .
The hinge of the base and the binocular motlnting are so set by the maker that each square field is in the middle of its round field horizontally .
They may be above or below , and they may be twisted about the visual line , and thes ' corrections are separately made by the two adjusting screws on each of the two middle prisms .
It is best to make all adjustments first on the half-base to which the binocular is attached and afterwards The collimator is a telescope with a spectroscope-slit , near the eye end , mounted at ths end of a tube projecting at right angles to the telescope tube and attached to it near the focal plane , and a right angled total reflection prism in the axis of the telescope and a mirror with a universal joint for illuminating the slit .
The binocular being removed , the collimator is pointed to one of the middle prisms .
images of the slit are then see1l , reflected from the two ered surfaces of each of the two prisms in ths half-base under examination .
They are sily iified by their different brightnesses .
The 2nd and 3rd in brightness are chosen , and the screw worked until these appear in the same line .
Then the faccs of the two prisms which are opposed to each other mtlst be parallel so far as a tilb about the direction of vision is concerned .
Adjustment about a vertical axis is not necessary .
The two adjustments now made render the axis of the two perfectly parallel , and the base is adjusted .
The slit of the collimator can be varied in width by a divided screw head .
One turn of the screw opens the of the slit fully , when the width is three minutes of arc .
This gives a ready means of measuring the There are other methods of proceeding to the corrections of the outer prisms .
We may begin by using ths collimator and adjusting either both of the screws previously used ; and afterwards , with the inocular , and using the third screw , we make the ends of the balloon ropes rest on the same distant horizontal line .
In actual warfare this method has certain advantages .
Addendunl , received March 1 , 1902 .
West , Cape I have made a large number of tests of the , some days giving better results than others .
Instead of choosing the days that binocular having had its scale index set inaccurately .
] errors being all negative and with the distance is due to the The steeple at the time enveloped in a dust stolm .
dusty day , drawn out and signed by Sir David Gill , Copy o ordinary work on aillKC .
Baverywindyand , H.M. Astronomer .
: .
The following measures of distance were made from the roof of the : Royal Observatory , Cape Town , on February 6 , at bright .clear day , strong S. wind , by Professor G. Forbes .
The distances recorded were in each case read independently off the screw hea by surveyNIr .
Observatory .
The distances of the po nts are rxnvonWefCer ocottag .
[ Since the above was written , the instrument has been carried on horseback between 300 and 400 miles in less than three weeks with Colonel Crabbe 's column in the South African War .
The author frequently tested with the collimator the parallelism of the prisms in each half of the base .
The error never amounted to 1 minute of arc .
Applying this in the formulae of the paper , it follows that the angle may amount to without introducing error of , the limit of accuracy aimed at .
In other Yords , lvhile it is shown in the paper that the error increases lvith the vertioal angular distance of ths object aimed at from the centre of the field , the tests during a rough experience show that the limit of accuracy aimed at is not exceeded , though the object be in any part of the field of view , and that no adjustment is required after leaving the maker 's hands .
]

