Experiments to ascertain the Influence of the Spinal Marrow on the Action of the Heart in Fishes .
By Mr. William Clift .
Conmmunicated by Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read February 16 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 91 .
] These experiments were undertaken by the author , in order to ascertain the truth or fallacy of M. Le Gallois ' conclusion respecting the action of the heart being dependent on the spinal marrow .
For since the death of quadrupeds ( on which M. Le Gallois operated ) is so readily produced by injury to the vital organs , it appeared to Mr. Clift that fishes would be far preferable , from their being more tenacious of life .
After two or three preliminary experiments on the duration of the heart 's action in carp , after being fully exposed by opening into the pericardium without any injury being done to the brain or spinal marrow , Mr. Clift next passed a hot wire from the tail to the occiput of a carp of the same size , so as to destroy its spinal marrow ; and he found that the action of the heart was quickened for two or three beats , but then resumed the same rate of pulsation as before , although the voluntary muscles had lost their power and did not contract when a stimulus was applied to them .
After several repetitions of this experiment , with various modifications in the mode of conducting it , the author arrives at the following results:1st .
That the muscles of the body of a carp can be thrown into powerful action four hours after the brain and heart are removed .
2dly .
That those muscles lose all power as soon as the spinal marrow is destroyed .
3rdly .
That by exposure of the heart to water iu which the fish is allowed to swim , the action of the heart ceases sooner than in air .
4thly .
That whether the heart is exposed or not , its action continues long after the brain and spinal marrow are destroyed ; and still longer when the brain is removed without previous injury to its sub , stance .
5thly .
That the action of the heart is in general accelerated for a few beats by injuries to the brain or spinal marrow ; but that destroying the spinal marrow after the brain has been separated renders the action of the heart slower for a few beats .

