The Histology and Bacteriology of the Oyster .
" Observations upon the Normal and Pathological Histology and Bacteriology of the Oyster .
" By W. A. Herdman , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Zoology in University College , Liverpool , and Hubert Boyce , M.B. , Professor of Pathology in University College , Liverpool .
Eeceived December 24 , 1898 , \#151 ; Read January 19 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) This research was commenced three years ago , and has been carried on intermittently in the intervals of other work .
Preliminary reports on some of our results have been laid before the British Association at the Ipswich , Liverpool , Toronto , and Bristol meetings , and a short paper on one section of the subject was communicated to the Royal Society and printed in the ' Proceedings ' last year .
In the present paper we give a full account , with illustrations , of the detailed evidence upon which our various conclusions are based .
The following is a brief statement of the more important results given in the paper :\#151 ; 1 .
Although our primary object was to study the oyster under unhealthy conditions , in order to [ elucidate its supposed connection with infective disease , we found it necessary to study in minute detail the histology of certain parts of the body , especially the gills and mantle lobes , the alimentary canal and liver .
We give figures and descriptions of these structures in both normal and abnormal conditions .
2 .
We have also worked out the distribution and probable function of a minute muscle , which we believe to be the modified representative of the protractor pedis muscle of some other molluscs .
3 .
A diseased condition we found in certain American oysters very soon brought us into contact with the vexed question of the " greening " of oysters , and one of the first results we arrived at was that there are several distinct hinds of greenness in oysters .
Some of them , such as the green Marennes oysters , and those of some rivers on the Essex coast , are healthy ; while others , such as some Falmouth oysters , containing copper , and some American oysters re-bedded on our coast , and which have the pale-green " leucocytosis " described in our former paper to the Royal Society , are not in a healthy state .
4 .
Some forms of greenness ( e.g. , the leucocytosis ) are certainly associated with the presence of a greatly increased amount of copper in the oyster , while other forms of greenness ( e.g. , that of the Marennes oysters ) have no connection with copper , but depend upon the presence of a special pigment , " marennin .
" We are able , in the main , to support Ray Lankester in his observa240 The Histology and Bacteriology of the Oyster .
tions on Marennes oysters ; but we regard the wandering amoeboid granular cells on the surface of the gills as leucocytes which have escaped from the blood spaces , and have probably assumed a phagocytic function .
5 .
We see no reason to think that any iron which may be associated with the marennin in the gills , \amp ; c. , is taken in through the surface epithelium of the gill and palps , but regard it , like the rest of the iron in the body , as a product of ordinary digestion and absorption in the alimentary canal and liver .
6 .
We do not find that there is any excessive amount of iron in the green Marennes oyster compared with the colourless oyster , nor do the green parts ( gills , palp , \amp ; c. ) of the Marennes oyster contain either absolutely or relatively to the colourless parts ( mantle , \amp ; c. ) more iron than colourless oysters .
We therefore conclude that there is no connection between the green colour of the " Huitres de Marennes " and the iron they may contain .
7 .
On the other hand , we do find by quantitative analysis that there is more copper in the green American oyster than in the colourless one ; and more proportionately in the greener parts than in those that are less green .
We therefore conclude that their green colour is due to copper .
We also find a greater quantity of iron in those green American oysters than in the colourless ; but this excess is , proportionately , considerably less than that of the copper .
8 .
In the Falmouth oysters , containing an excessive amount of copper , we find that much of the copper is certainly mechanically attached to the surface of the body , and is in a form insoluble in water , probably as a basic carbonate .
In addition to this , however , the Falmouth oyster may contain a much larger amount of copper in its tissues than does the normal colourless oyster .
In these Falmouth oysters the cause of the green colour may be the same as in the green American oyster .
9 .
By treating sections of diseased American oysters under the microscope with potassium ferrocyanide and various other reagents , we find that the copper reactions correspond in distribution with the green coloration ; and we find , moreover , from these micro-chemical observations that the copper is situated in the blood-cells or leucocytes , which are greatly increased in number .
This condition may be described as a green leucocytosis , in which copper in notable amount is stored up in the leucocytes .
10 .
We find that an aqueous solution of pure hsematoxylin is an extremely delicate test for copper , just as Macallum found it to be for iron .
11 .
Experiments in feeding oysters with weak solutions of vaiious copper and iron salts gave no definite results , certainly no cleai evidence of any absorption of the metals accompanied by gieening .
On the Formation of Multiple Images the Normal Eye .
241 12 .
Although we did not find the Bacillus typhosus in any oysters obtained from the sea or from the markets , yet in our experimental oysters inoculated with typhoid we were able to recover the organism from the body of the oyster up to the tenth day .
We show that the typhoid bacillus does not increase in the body or in the tissues of the oyster , and our figures indicate that the bacilli perish in the intestine .
13 .
Our experiments showed that sea-water was inimical to the growth of the typhoid bacilli .
Although their presence was demonstrated in one case on the twenty-first day after addition to the water , still there appeared to be no initial or subsequent multiplication of the bacilli .
14 .
In our experiments in washing infected oysters in a stream of clean sea-water the results were definite and uniform ; there was a great diminution or total disappearance of the typhoid bacilli in from one to seven days .
15 .
The colon group of bacilli is frequently found in shell-fish as sold in towns , and especially in the oyster ; but we have no evidence that it occurs in mollusca living in pure sea water .
The natural inference that the presence of the colon bacillus invariably indicates sewage contamination must , however , not be considered established without further investigation .
16 .
The colon group may be separated into two divisions : ( 1 ) those giving the typical reactions of the colon bacillus , and ( 2 ) those giving corresponding negative reactions , and so approaching the typhoid type ; but in no case was an organism giving all the reactions of the B. typhosus isolated .
It ought to be remembered , however , that our samples of oysters , although of various kinds and from different sources , were in no case , so far as we are aware , derived from a bed known to be contaminated or suspected of typhoid .
17 .
We have shown also the frequent occurrence , in various shellfish from the shops , of anaerobic spore-bearing bacilli giving the characteristics of the B. enteritidis sporogenes recently described by Klein .
18 .
As the result of our work , we make certain recommendations as to the sanitary regulation and registration of the oyster beds , and as to quarantine for oysters imported from abroad .
" On the Formation of Multiple Images in the Normal Eye .
" By Shelfoed Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. , F.R.S. Received December 8 , 1898\#151 ; Read January 19 , 1899 .
[ Plate 5 .
] It is well known that a small bright object for which the eye is not accommodated often presents a multiform appearance , the number of separate images perceived varying in different cases from about six to

