1881 .
] On Stigmata in the King .
X. " Note on the Existence in the King Crab ( poly-phemus ) of Stigmata corresponding to the Respiratory Stigmata of the Pulmonate Arachnida , and on the Morphological Agreements between Limulus and Scorpio .
By E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jodrell Professor of Zoology in University College , London .
Received May 26 , 1881 .
I.__The Agreements between Limultjs and Scorpio .
The conclusion arrived at by Straus Diirckheim ( 1828 ) to the effect that Limulus is an Arachnid , and as such to be placed in a distinct order of the class Arachnida , has not as yet been generally accepted by zoologists .
It is , however , to be noted that whilst the zoologists of the first half of this century had no hesitation in placing among the Crustacea , and even in associating it in one order with such Crustaceans as the Phyllopoda , yet there has been an increasing tendency within the last five-and-twenty years to recognise very distinctly something like affinity between Idmulus and the Arachnida .
This tendency has shown itself in the proposal made by some eminent authorities of late ( Haeckel , Dohrn , ' Claus , Gegenbaur ) to place Limulus in a distinct group by itself ( Gigantostraca or Pcecilopoda ) , neither Crustacean nor Arachnidan , but nearly equally removed from and equally related by supposed genetic connexions to both the Crustacea and the Arachnida .
Professor Edouard Van Beneden , of Liege , alone , professedly basing his conclusion upon an examination of the embryological history of Limulus , has categorically declared that " the Limuli are not Crustacea ; they have nothing in common with the Phyllopoda , and their embryonic development presents the greatest analogies with that of the Scorpions and of the other Arachnida , from which it is not possible to separate them .
" I have elsewhere* stated my full concurrence with Professor Van Beneden 's conclusion on this subject , and proposed accordingly to divide the Arachnida into the Branchiopulmonata and Tracheopul-monata , but I have not hitherto taken an opportunity of setting forth the grounds upon which I am led to hold that the Limuli are Arachnida and not Crustacea .
These grounds are entirely independent of those advanced by Professor Van Beneden , which were derived from the phenomena of embryonic development .
The grounds upon which I base my conclusions are , on the contrary , found in the facts of the adult structure of Limulus on the one hand and of the pulmonate Arachnida on the other , more especially of Scorpio .
I have recently become acquainted with some undescribed struc* " Notes on Embryology and Classification.'* " Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Science , October 1877 .
392 Prof. E. R. Lankester .
[ June Iff tures in Limulus , which appear to me to be strongly confirmatory of the identification of the structural elements of that animal with the structural elements of Scorpio ; and , pending the preparation of a more complete account of the matter , I am anxious to place on record the chief grounds which appear to me to exist for classifying with the Arachnida in very close association with the pulmonate members of that class .
Without depreciation of the morphological insight of those who have previously approached this question , amongst the foremost of whom are the English zoologists , Huxley , Woodward , and Owen , I may venture to say that it appears to me that the fact that Limulus is little else than an aquatic scorpion , and Scorpio little else than a ter-restrial king crab , has not as yet become an accepted conclusion of zoological science , because those zoologists who have discussed the question and instituted a comparison between Limulus and Scorpio_____I whether ( as Straus Diirckheim ) favourable to their association or ( as every other zoologist ) opposed to it\#151 ; have not to begin with hit upon the true terms of comparison .
We have in Limulus , on the one hand , and in Scorpio , on the other , a series of more or less completely expressed body-segments and a corresponding series of appendages .
Everything depends on making a correct start in the comparison , supposing that a very close agreement exists between the two series in a barely masked condition , and is to be made evident as the result of the comparison .
The notions as to the importance of the innervation of appendages from a ganglion lying in front of the mouth as opposed to the condition when innervation proceeds from a ganglion behind the mouth , have tended to obscure the true relationships of Limulus and Scorpio .
For it is only quite recently that it has been established ( Alphonse Milne-Edwards ) that the ganglion in front of the mouth does not innervate the first pair of appendages of Limulus* and that , similarly , the innervation of the first pair of appendages ( chelicerte ) of Arachnida does not proceed from the primitive " ganglion in front of the mouth but from right and left lateral nerve-centres , which are embryologically quite distinct from the primitive prseoral ganglion , and posterior to it ( Balfour ) .
Whilst there has been a difficulty in regard to this point of comparison , which is now removed , there has not been a full and well-grounded conviction of the identity in structure and position of the * [ June 24th , 1881 .
I am able fully to confirm the exactness of the account of the nervous system of Limulus given by M. Alphonse- Milne-Edwards , having , through the kindness of Mr. Carrington , E.L.S. , received from the Royal Westminster Aquarium a living specimen of Limulus , which enabled me to dissect out the relations of the nerves to the ganglionic centres in the most satisfactory manner .
] 1881 .
] On Stigmata in the King Crab .
393 series of projecting books of ( about ) 150 double lamellae seen in with the similar series of sunken books of ( about ) 130 double lamellae , seen in Scorpio . .
A careful study of the structure of these respiratory organs m the two animals , together with the explanation afforded by their external position in Limulus , of the " comb-like organs " of the Scorpion , and the observation of the fact that the genital operculum of Limulus is represented in miniature by the genital operculum of the Scorpion , and in an exactly corresponding position relatively to legs and gill-books , are the factors which , above all others , are likely to contribute to forming in an observer the impression that there is a very real and intimate agreement between Limulus and Scorpio .
This impression is confirmed in a remarkable way by the agreement of details of structure in the two animals\#151 ; such , for instance , as the form of the legs , the relation of the coxae to the mouth , and to the sternal sclerites , the minute structure of the gill-plates , and their exact arrangement and imbrication to form those peculiar book-like organs which have no parallel in the animal kingdom .
The impression is further confirmed by one of the main facts on which Straus Diirckheim relied for his conclusions on the subject , viz. , the existence in Limulus and in the Arachnida of a very peculiar loose skeletal piece\#151 ; the \#171 ; entosternite " : further by the close similarity of the digestive canal and its caeca in Limulus and Scorpio ; by the close agreement of the very highly developed vascular system in the two animals ; by the close agreement in its general disposition of the central nervous system in the two animals .
In addition to all this , it has recently been shown that the structure of the compound eye of Limulus , though necessarily not that of any living Arachnid , is also unlike that of any living Crustacean ( Grenadier ) .
Lastly may be mentioned , as confirmatory of the existence of a close relationship between Limulus and the pulmonate Arachnida , on the one hand the living Arachnida , which , like Limulus , exhibit a suppression of the segmentation of the hinder part of the abdomen as compared with Scorpio , and on the other hand those fossil forms , the Eurypterina , which correspond with Scorpio exactly in the number of segments developed in the abdominal region , and very closely in their general form , whilst unmistakably related m the closest way to Inmulus ( as generally admitted ) by the structure of their great digging leg ( the hindmost pair ) and of their genital operculum .
The cephalo-thoracic limbs of the Eurypterina , though but five pairs in number in place of the six pairs present in Limulus and Scorpio , yet , as long since pointed out by Professor Huxley , present no difficulty on this account in the way of a close approximation of the forms in question ; for it is obvious from the condition of the anterior pair in such a Eurypterine as Slimonia , that there is a characteristic tendency to the reduction and hence suppression of the 394 Prof. E. R. Lankester .
[ June 1(5 anterior appendages , which has , in the case of the whole group of Eurypterina , led to the suppression of the foremost pair of appendages corresponding to the chelicerse of the Scorpion and of The probability of such a suppression having taken place has a direct bearing upon questions which arise when a comparison is attempted between the series of appendages of the Arachnida as a class with those of other classes of Arthropoda .
It is significant in this con-nexion that such a suppression of at least one pair of anterior appendages has been very generally considered to be a characteristic of the Arachnida , whether the attempt to harmonise their structure with that of other Arthropoda has been made in assimilating them through Galeodes to the Hexapod Insects , or through Scorpio to the Decapod Crustaceans .
I now submit as a summary of the conclusions to which I am .
led , a tabular view of the structural identities of Limulus and Scorpio , in so far as the sclerites of the body and appendages are concerned ; and shall next describe certain cavities and their stigmata which I have detected in Limulus which appear to me to be the representatives of the stigmata of the pulmonate Arachnida , and of the pulmonary chambers in which their gill-books have become concealed.* Notes in reference to the Tabular Statement .
Camerostome.\#151 ; The tubercular sclerite at the base of the first pair of appendages overhanging the mouth may be spoken of by this term ( introduced by Latreille ) both in Limulus and the other Arachnida , without prejudging the question as to its relations to the " labrum " of Hexapod Insects or of Crustacea .
Ghilaria.\#151 ; This term has been applied by Professor Owen to the pair of small processes placed mesially between the coxae of the last pair of legs in Limulus .
Although supplied by distinct nerves , yet their late appearance in development , as shown by Packard , and their simple structure , lead to the conclusion that they are not rudimentary appendages , as has been supposed , nor parts of the coxae of the sixth pair of legs as has been suggested , but special tubercular elevations of the sternal surface .
Genital operculum.\#151 ; On account of the concetitration of the nerve-centres in the cephalo-thoracic region , and the consequent origin of the pair of nerves to this organ from that region , the genital operculum Limulus of has been regarded by some writers as belonging to * [ June 24th , 1881 .
In October , 1878 ( " Quart .
Joum .
Micr .
Science " ) I published an account of the motility of the spermatozooids of Limulus .
This character tends to separate Limulus from Crustacea .
It also tends to unite Scorpio and IAmulus .
The most important difference between the two animals , is the absence from Limulus of Malpighian tubes .
Rudiments of these may yet be discovered .
} \#166 ; 2 LIMULUS .
1 ' IfV^COItPiO . .
1 IJP Tergites .
1 Sternites . .
Appendages .
1 I , SQ .
Appendage^'7.4 wj'-iiSjfgtfJt ?
\#163 ; |s\#163 ; j:''r-*i Tergites .
1 H B Camerostome ( small tu- Small chelae . .
1 l^kelicerae .
1 - 3 |F'CephaIo-thoracic carapace with central and peripheral The fused pro- and meso-thoracic sternites ( a \#166 ; 31 elongate sclerife stretching from the mouth \#171 ; |hechilaria ) .
IChelse .
2 1 ppheMi \#166 ; 1 GBBBB mesiad S liBBH tjeitwo anterior movable , - posterior .fixed .
\#166 ; , -"wBaK distinctly iiafr'kej^ii.all pro thoracic sjermte is followed by a lijtege oval1 , .mesothora^iej stjernite .
2 gChelse .
3 Walking legs .
Cephalo-thoracic carapace 3 | 7 w Chelae .
4 Walking legs .
with central and peripheral eyes .
, 4 li 6 Chelae .
5 Walking legs .
5 ' T^e chilanaH paired me-tastoma , or mefathoracic .\gt ; -#erjaie ; ef%4 w digging legs .
6 Walking legs .
metathoracic s1feuMtef ? .
, 11 6 IB o pjg| %ffhe ' abdominal carapace |i| y No* dorsal pits .
gelt integument and stig- .
pits ( muBcuia^ posterior to base BlpSjj culum .
prenital operculum .
7 ^#dmtal^op , e tciial n nn , j 1'^^^ ^ f A separate narrow bandlike scle , rfj).e.^ '.v|| 7 1^ ; , First pair \#169 ; f and entapophj'scs .
" .
ntes and stigmatic ^pitsfi |l !
s , t''ffl|OjS|k pair pro-jAB ing .
8 comb- .
organs ; ^modified / gill-book :t ^ ePBS9'tS^BfiiH rectangular I sclMfiP- A separate narrow scleri^^B 8 II i k S 2nd pair .
B90R1 pits W ' " ' " ah(f eni\#174 ; pophyses .
Epistigmatic pair of HH l^ri^e's-ajad stigma%|^.f|^ phd gill-book pair pS|SS ing .
: ^ Btgill-to^pair sunk in pulmonary sacs .
^ S(\#174 ; ^.ra^e I^Jid transverse j sclerite with stigmata lcaAag^-gt'b pulmonary sa(\#187 ; | .
A separate band-like scl'e J | rite .
9 11 * 3rd pair of dorsaf pits 1 if f- 'andstewtdpophjsfes .
Epistigmatic pair ' of sole- 1 ' an\lt ; ^ stigm'a'ti^B^B K-rd gill-|j||\gt ; k -PaiijlfjjpPlA 10 ^^f^S-boo'Je , pair sunk if^ pulmonary ' sjp|^iS5( a !
scl lea sai earate broad transverse erite with stigmata Mn^-^to pulmonary 1 A separate band-like sM^ j rite .
10 Hy2 4th paiip|f lateral spines. .
4th pair HBk\#163 ; l1 pits , and entapophyses .
~ carapace .
Epistigr^the : pair of HH 8 stigmatic pits .
: Bth gill-book pair prpjjfcl^ [ i |ing- \#166 ; jflfll 11 ifel ; g'illcbook ipMr.sunk in Aii| scl lea sac parare broad t'rans^leJ pulmonary r A separate band-like sele J 3 11M \#166 ; j^^*Pa^ ' , ^"dorsal ) pits * ' \ and entap\lt ; ^p^s-.^^^^ Abdominal \lt ; Epistigmatic pair \#169 ; f , scle : ; ^ riiti^s and stigmatic pits , j f atli gill-book pair projects v Sing- 12 : 41 h g^^Wok pair sunk3rl | pulmonary Asej ^ .
; sci\lt ; lea iarate broad transverse .
srite with stigma^ Sg to pulmonary , m 1 A separate band-hke sci'e^j fj rite .
12 i18 14 \#166 ; Kh pair jmi lateral spines .
|| ip\#174 ; k pair of dorsal pits %\#187 ; and entapophyses .
] Large and solid selemllsJ S lone/ -ifl 13 None . .
A sen sclc my arate broad transverse'.1 rite- , devmlpftf stig-a .
1 M separate broad band-like ' BcleriM^^g 13 / 15 } 1 .
,3 forming th\gt ; S ' sternum g \#163 ; pne7 14 IE None .
| Vejh'al 'half'-ofdistinct j cylindrical sclerite .
Dorsal half \#169 ; f a distinct- U ' Cylindrical Bcleritetffp^l| 14 In embryo , two st^^enfs ) if v^lpjA.there isapro trace in fore= -most- of these is pro-r'\#163 ; ' , tir%d with a pair of the " -tiff ?
prae-anal region of poten- Npne .
| HflH None .
'^ratral half of a distinct cmndrical ' sclerite .
Dorsal half a distinct,1 cylindrical scleritc^^B5l 15 1H1 \#166 ; IBHRMHMH tial segmen'taMon^which ^pne .
jot |i None .
gsjStiral half of.-- a distinct .
cylindrical sclerite .
Dorsal half of a distinct ] cylindrical SdL^l^^B| I ^11 17 movable spines life those in frenra^sffeg^v ' His-- appear during develop-ment .
includes a soft invaginate 1 area ioft which opens the VMfe .
' None .
^Slral half of a distinct ' oSindrical aclerfi^^^p Dpj:sal ; -*half of a distinct cylindrical sclerite .
17 \#166 ; 31 \#166 ; ANUS .
S ' me .
.'is:v ; | ; None .
^Stral half of a distinct emindri'eal sclerite , and Ini area B " which is ' .f^mced tbfe anus ' ?
** Dorsal half of , a distinct-cylindrical sclerite .
18 ' Post-anal Spine .
* Post-anal Spine or Sting ( a jointed filament -ip Thelyphonus ) .
On Stigmata in the King Crab .
1881 .
] the cephalo-thoracictergites .
It has , however , a distinctly emarginated tergal surface corresponding to it in the abdominal carapace .
This emarginated area is much more distinct in the embryonic condition than in the adult .
In Limulus , the median portion of the base of the genital operculum and of the following five lamelliform organs appears in each case to be a projecting ridge of the sternal surface simply whilst the distal and lateral area only ( right and left of the shallow median fissure ) are to be regarded as representing a right and left " appendage .
" The exact limit of the two elements , that is , ot the appendage proper and of its sternal base , can only be decided by an exact knowledge of the development of the parts m the embryo .
Abdominal Carapace and Telson.\#151 ; In young embryos ot there are , according to Packard 's observations , eight , if not nine , distinct segments indicated in the tergum of the abdominal region , besides the rudiment of the post-anal spine .
Of these the first represents the tergite of the genital operculum , and , m the adult is indicated by an emarginated area and immovable spine or angular process on either side of the fused mass forming the abdominal carapace .
The next five embryonic segments correspond to the five pairs o appendages carrying the " biblioid " gills , and are indicated each in the adult by a movable spine , at the side of the tergum , and by ve area ?
on its free or pleural lower surface , marked out by the disposition of the hairs which plothe it .
The next following embryonic segment ( the seventh ) is indicated in the adult by a pair of lateral movable spines on the tergum ( the sixth pair of movable spines ) , but there is no further indication ot segments ; what was seventh , eighth , and ninth segments m the embryo is fused into one piece , together with the segments m front and exhibits no rudiment of the former segmentation m the form of ridges as do the first six abdominal segments .
It forms an oblong area ot considerable bulk , not much smaller in its axial portion than the whole of the abdominal segments in front of it .
In the soft integument beyond this is placed the anus and beyond that the anal spine .
The word " telson " has been applied , in my opinion , unwisely to the post-anal spine .
The telson of such a Crustacean as is that region of the body following upon the segmented region and carrying within its area the anus .
It is ( as more especially pointed out by Claus ) a region which may be characterised as one of potential segmentation ; it is not precisely a segment , but something more than a segment , .viz .
, that tract of the hindmost region of the body which can , and in incompletely developed forms does , give lise to new segments , by a process of separation from its anterior border .
It has necessarily , and by definition , a certain extension anteriorly , that is , in front of the anus . .
Now , the post-anal spine of Limulus has no such character .
It is VOL. xxxii .
^ E 396 Prof. E. R. Lankester .
[ June 16 homologous with the post-anal sting-spine of Scorpio , or the jointed post-anal filament of Thelyphonus , and if it may be compared with anything in Astacus it is with the post-anal joint of that Crustacean 's telson .
The true " telson " of Limulus embraces the larger part of the unsegmented area , the area of potential segmentation which extends from the sixth pair of movable lateral spines and the axial area from the base of the last pair of gill-plates backwards .
In the embryo this area has one or possibly two segments marked off from it , so that the small area formed by their re-fusion in the adult is , strictly speaking , not " telson .
" The whole pree-anal region of the telson of Limulus ( together with the two embryonic segments of which all trace is lost in the adult ) corresponds to the six proximal ( proximal that is to the anus ) prse-anal body-rings of Scorpio , of which that including the anus should be called " telson .
" That this bulky region should remain unsegmented in Limulus , whilst giving rise to several segments ( some elongate and annular ) in Scorpio , is no difficulty in the way of the assimilation of the two forms , so far as Arachnidan characters are concerned , firstly , because in the Spiders , which are typical Arachnida , the abdomen is obscurely segmented in a manner parallel to that observed in Limulus ; and , secondly , because in the Eurypterina ( the close affinity of which to Limulus we are permitted to assume as demonstrated ) the exact number of segments and an approximation to the form , shown by Scorpio in this part of the body , is found .
Whilst the term telson had , it seems , best be reserved for a larger area than that occupied by the post-anal spine , it is to be noted that Professor Owen has urged , not by the mere implication of a name , but explicitly , that the post-anal spine of Limulus corresponds to the several prae-anal segments of the Scorpion 's tail as well as to its " sting , " and he has pointed to indications of annulation in the structure of this spine .
The traces of annulation appear to me to be precisely similar in character to the annulations of the jointed post-anal filament of Thelyphonus , and it appears to me that there is the same inducement when the comparison of general form only is made in the case of Thelyphonus compared with Scorpio , to regard the narrow-jointed post-anal " tail " of the former as the equivalent of the latter 's tail , consisting of true pras-anal body-segments , as there is when Limulus and Scorpio are compared , to assimilate the king crab 's spine to the segments of Scorpio just named .
In yielding to the inducement in either case , we should , I think , mistake a resemblance of superficial adaptation of form for one of true genetic equivalence .
II.\#151 ; The Para-branchial Stigmata of Limulus .
The views which have been advanced in the preceding section of jggj j On Stigmata in the King Crab .
397 this note , as to the practical identity of the gill-books of Limulus and the lung-books of Scorpio , implicitly contain the affirmation that either the structures of I/ imulus have been derived from those of Scorpio , or those of Scorpio from those of Limulus , or that a third ( possibly now extinct ) form has given rise to both Limulus and Scorpio .
Further , it is to be observed that such extinct form might be more like to Limulus than to Scorpio , or vice versd , in respect of any particular element of structure .
To make a long story as short as possible , I may say that without prejudicing the recognition of the ( as I think ) well-established morphological identities above pointed out , we may best explain their existence by assuming that an aquatic form breathing the dissolved oxygen of the water inhabited by it , by means of book-like gills , was the common ancestor of Limulus and of Scorpio .
From the booklike gills of this ancestral form , the broad series of Limulus and the narrower lung-books as well as the pectinse or combs of the Scorpion , have been derived .
The form of the book-like gills of this Arachnidan ancestor was probably something intermediate between the three existent modifications of it\#151 ; and best conceived of , perhaps , by imagining the teeth of the Scorpion 's " pectinate organs " to become soft and flattened and increased in number .
To obtain from these the Limulus gill , we have but to suppose certain definite changes of dimension , the imbrication and character of the lamellae and their external position remaining unaltered .
To arrive at the book-lungs of the Scorpion , we have to imagine the ventral surface on each side in close proximity to the short appendages carrying the gill-books\#151 ; to have become deeply cupped or depressed ; so that two series of cup-like pits should be formed , a right and a left , a pair being placed in each segment , corresponding to each pair of gill-books .
Each cup must have become so large in area and so deep as to embrace within its limits the relatively small adjacent gill-book .
Further , when once the gill-book had been involved in this cup-like depression , the walls of the cup must have tended to grow together so as to form a pulmonary chamber with only a narrow slit-like opening to the exterior , and pari passu with this closing in of the cupped area\#151 ; and the protection of the respiratory lamellae\#151 ; the Arachnid must have acquired the power of leaving the water and of breathing the atmospheric oxygen admitted to the damp chamber formed by the cave-like areas of depression .
Whilst framing such a hypothetical account of the way in which the transition from naked " gill-book " to in-sunken " lung-book could have taken place , one naturally asks\#151 ; " Is it not a somewhat gratuitous assumption to imagine that cupped are\#174 ; should form conveniently by the side of the gill-books of the aquatic ancestor , so as to be ready to increase in size and ultimately draw into themselves , 2 e 2 On Stigmata in the King Crab .
[ June 16 as it were , the gill-books ?
" " Is there , " we are led on further to ask , " any known instance in Arachnida of the formation of cupped areas on the chitinous surface of the body ?
If so , can we show in what mechanical relation they are formed p And lastly , can it he demonstrated that such mechanical relation probably existed in connexion with the gill-books of the assumed common ancestor of Limulus and Scorpio ?
" If all these questions can be affirmatively answered , then our hypothesis as to the transition of the aquatic Arachnid to the pulmonate condition acquires great plausibility .
The answer to these questions , which I am able to give as the result of some careful examinations of specimens of Limulus and , Thelyphonus , and other Arachnida , appears to me to have more than ordinary interest , since the formation of cupped areae on the chitinous surface of the body and the mechanical relations connected with their formation have come to light as demanded by the hypothesis .
They exist in Limulus itself and in Thelyphonus .
In Limulus , there are two great muscles , a right and a left , inserted into the soft ventral integument near the base of each double gill-plate .
These muscles known as the thoraco-abdominal muscles , serve ( together with others which enter the appendage itself ) by their contractions to move the gill-plates in the water and so aid in aquatic respiration .
The position of the insertion of each muscular mass is marked by a deep funnellike depression of the integument .
From the external surface this depression appears as a " stigma , " and a rod can be introduced into it to the depth of an inch .
The funnel-like depression has a narrow mouth which is often as much as half an inch in length .
Internally the invaginated cuticle stands up as a flexible chitinous tendon , giving attachment to the muscle already mentioned .
These structures appear to have remained hitherto undescribed .
In Limulus , I find a pair of these " muscle-stigmata , " right and left behind the genital operculum , and a pair ( right and left ) behind each of the lamelliform fused appendages which carry the gill-books .
The mouth of each stigma is strengthened by a small " epistigmatic sclerite " and two adjacent still smaller sclerites .
We have only to suppose the appendages carrying the gill-books not to have fused as yet in the middle line , and the muscular stigmata to have become greatly developed ( perhaps by increased development of the muscle aiding in aquatic respiration ) and we have at once the gill-book sinking within the area of the stigmatic pit .
A very important feature in the supposed further development is the correspondence of the atrophy of the muscle ( which atrophy is required to fit in with our hypothesis , and to convert the muscle-pit into a pulmonary sac ) with the changes in the structures which would necessarily result were the physiological conditions gradually to become such as to favour aerial in place of aquatic respiration .
The Prof. J. A. Ewing .
Effects of Stress .
1881 .
] violent agitation of the gills by the muscle attached to the stigmatic pit would become useless , supposing an exposure of the gill-lamellae to the atmosphere became by degrees habitual with the ancestral Arachnidan .
In proportion as these hypothetical creatures acquired the habit of aerial respiration\#151 ; the deepening and arching in of the stigmatic pit would be favoured , and the atrophy and final disappearance of the muscle which was attached to its inner surface , and had mechanically brought it into existence , would also be directly promoted .
# .
A further confirmation of the view now advanced is found m the remarkable Javanese Arachnidan T This Arachnid has not four pairs of lung-sacs like Scorpio , but only two pairs , corresponding to the two foremost lungs of Scorpio , and to the second and third gill-book-pairs of Limulus .
Nevertheless , the four segments of the abdomen posterior to these are each marked by a pair of shallow stigmata placed in line with the orifices of the pulmonary sacs of the two anterior segments .
When the internal structure corresponding to these parts is examined , it is found that a large muscle ( similar to the similarly placed muscle of Limulus ) is inserted into each of the four right and four left stigmata in the segments posterior to the pul-monary sacs .
The two segments into which the two pairs of pulmonary sacs are sunk , have no such muscles .
The pulmonary sacs are , therefore , in this case , also , to all appearance , enlarged muscular stigmata , from which their former muscles have disappeared by disuse and atrophy .
XI .
" Effects of Stress on the Thermoelectric Quality of Metals .
Part I. " By J. A. Ewing , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the University of Tokio , Japan .
Communicated by Professor Fleeming Jenkin , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This investigation was undertaken , in the first instance , with the view of finding whether the gradual mechanical change which goes on with lapse of time after stretching wires ( which the author described in a former paper , " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 510 ) is associated with a corresponding change in thermoelectric quality .
But the experiments brought to light some very unexpected results with regard to the immediate effects of stress , and the present communication deals with , these only .
Part I is further limited to the effects of longitudinal pull on iron .
The author is proceeding to extend the same inquiry to other metals and to other modes of stress .

