On Bed-water or Texas Fever .
Ill sufficiently nutritious food also results in poor returns of lambs .
Among Suffolk and Shropshire ewes , which are highly fed as a rule , a hi oh percentage of barrenness occurs in cases where they are excessively highly fed ; on the other hand , among Dorset Horn , Lincoln , and Kent ewes , which are certainly not too highly fed as a rule at tupping time , the highest percentage of barrenness occurs among the poorest kept flocks . . .
oof7 The most frequent percentage of barrenness experienced m 32/ flocks is 1 to 2 per cent. , but , as Table III shows , the returns are much more irregular than was the case for abortion , and there is a much larger proportion of flocks in the " 10 per cent , and ovei column .
The slightly excessive proportion of flocks in the 5 per cent , column ' suggests generalised results rather than accurate returns , but the number of flock-masters who are responsible for this is obviously very small .
In conclusion:\#151 ; 1 Whereas the total loss from abortion and barrenness is fairly constant for most pure breeds of sheep , the Suffolks and Hampshires are markedly free from , and the Lincolns markedly liable to , heavy loss from *ttl6SG C3^riS6S 2 .
Although the loss from the above causes does exert an influence on the returns of fertility of the various breeds , it does not account for the wide variation which exists in this respect .
3 .
The ewes of certain pure breeds are conspicuously more fertile than the average cross-bred ewe ; and 4 .
The fertility of certain pure breeds is sufficiently marked to constitute a racial characteristic .
_ " Some further Remarks on Red-water or Texas Fever .
' By Alexander Edington , M.B. , F.R.S.E. , Director of the Bacteriological Institute , Cape Colony .
Communicated by Dr. D. Gill , C.B. , F.R.S. Received March 13 , \#151 ; Read April 20 , 1899 .
Since my communication* to the Royal Society of London , by Professor Thomas R. Frazer , I have been able to obtain valuable addi * The conclusions arrived at in that communication ( received June 6 , 1898 ) were as follows 1 .
The blood of animals , themselves healthy , from a red-water area is dangerous if inoculated into an animal which suffers coincidentally from another disease .
2 .
That the blood of animals suffering from mild or modified red-water may be safely used to inoculate a healthy animal subcutaneously , but is dangerous when injected into a vein .
3 .
That the subcutaneous inoculation t of mild or modified red-water blood conveys a mild form of the disease , and since the blood of such an animal is vimVOL .
LXV .
- 1 112 Mr. A. Edington .
tional evidence as to the communicability of the disease by the use of blood derived from animals which have been either recovered from the sickness for a very considerable time or which have been inoculated many months previously to the date on which their blood has been used .
On the 8th December , 1898 , I withdrew some blood from animal No. 18 , which has been continuously under observation since it was inoculated on the 22nd December , 1897 .
After defibrinating the blood , 20 c.c. was used to inoculate a young ox ( No. 54 ) by intravenous injection .
On the following day a sharp rise of temperature occurred , which reached to 106-6 F. On the following morning it was observed to have fallen to 99'8 ' F. Three days later the temperature was again over 104 ' F. , but fell previous to the next morning .
From this time onward an erratic course of temperature was observed , and on the twenty-fifth day , subsequent to inoculation , it was seen to be ill , refused food , but had no definite symptoms of " red-water .
" Three days later it died .
The blood on examination was seen to contain the spherical forms of the parasite .
On post-mortem examination , the bladder and urine were quite normal .
The liver was not enlarged , but was somewhat discoloured in patches , and the biliary ducts were distended with bile .
The bile was much altered , being stringy and of a greenish-yellow colour .
The spleen was normal in size and consistence .
The kidneys were enlarged and the pelves were filled up by a yellowish gelatinous exudation .
The cortex was somewhat congested , but there was no evidence of any true inflammatory change .
The general muscles were pale in colour , and there was slight evidence of jaundice .
This experiment serves to show that an animal which has been inoculated with infected blood , while it may not develop much illness as a result of it , is really infected and , moreover , its blood , if drawn as late as a year subsequently , is yet so infective that an intravenous injection of it , into susceptible lent when injected into a vein in another animal , it is safely to be inferred that the animal suffering from the mild form becomes more or less immunised or u salted .
" On these grounds I would suggest a method of protective inoculation against red-water in the following manner .
Having procured a healthy animal from a red-water area , or one which is known to have been " salted , " inoculate it by injecting 5 c.c. of red-water blood into the jugular vein and 5 c.c. subcutaneously .
In cases where the operator is unable to attempt the vein inoculation I would recommend the subcutaneous inoculation of 5 c.c. in four different sites .
Allow at least twenty-eight days to elapse , and if any degree of illness is recognised , the blood of this animal may be used , after being defibrinated , to inoculate healthy cattle .
For such inoculation only 5 c.c. should be injected into small animals and not more than 10 c.c. into larger .
Seeing , however , that the presence of other maladies renders such a proceeding unsafe , I would recommend that it should only be practised during the autumn or winter , when the veld diseases are , as a rule , in abeyance , and in no case when any epidemic disease is in the near neighbourhood .
On Red-water o Texas .
animals , will certainly infect , and may even kill , although after a somewhat extended period of time .
Very important corroboration of this is furnished by the experience of inoculation for red-water , which has lately been adopted in the Cape Colony .
Four animals which were immune to red-water ( three by reason of having had the disease and recovered , and one by being born and reared on permanently infected veld ) were sent from Fort Beaufort to Queenstown to be used by the veterinary surgeon there for inoculation purposes .
The animals to be used for inoculation had been " fortified , " i.e. , re-inoculated with virulent blood , seven weeks previously .
Twenty animals were inoculated with defibrinated blood from one animal , the doses used being 10 to 20 c.c. , according to age .
All had a febrile reaction and some slight symptoms of the sickness , but easily recovered .
From one of the other of the four animals blood was taken and used to inoculate seven head , giving doses of 10 to 15 c.c. These also all had a reaction , but made good recovery .
On November 1st the four animals were re-inoculated with virulent red-water blood , and in each case 5 c.c. was injected intravenously and 10 c.c. subcutaneously .
Twenty-nine days later they were bled .
With this blood two lots of cattle were inoculated .
One lot consisted of 107 animals which had not ever been exposed to red-water infection .
The doses used were increased beyond those which I had recommended , namely , 10 to 25 c.c. were used , according to age .
Of these animals no less than seventeen died of characteristic red-water .
The remainder made a good recovery .
The second lot consisted of fifty-three head of cattle , all of which , with one exception ( an imported animal ) had been born and reared on red-water veld .
The imported animal was the only one which showed any signs of reaction , but it made a good recovery .
This experience has sufficed to show that it is not always safe to exceed the doses which I have recommended , unless the animals which have been used for withdrawing blood have been untouched for at least a considerable number of months .
I have been able , with the co-operation of several farmers , to carry out experiments by which inoculated cattle have been fully exposed to infection at later dates .
In May , 1898 , I inoculated ten head of old cattle with blood from an animal which had been inoculated , six months previously , with virulent blood .
These cattle were immediately removed from the Institute , and later sent to an infected area in company with ten head of young animals which were uninoculated , but , as is commonly known in this colony , are not so liable to death from this disease as are older animals .
Of the young stock all have been infected by exposure in the veld , and three have died .
Of the older , more susceptible , animals not one has shown the slightest signs of illness , and the cows have given birth to healthy calves .
VOL. LXV .
K Proceedings and List of Papers read .
Mr. J. H. Webber had twenty-eight head of Fish River cattle inoculated on the 7th November , 1898 , and subsequently had them removed to his farm , which is well known to be one of the worst infested areas in the eastern province .
Previous experience has shown that if clean cattle are placed there they become very quickly affected with the disease .
On the 5th December one died from gall-sickness , but , with this exception , all have done very well , and are at this date in perfect health .
This method of inoculation has proved so satisfactory to the farmers themselves that it is being very generally adopted , and the farmers have petitioned the Government to arrange for an inoculating station being placed at Graham 's Town , so that clean cattle coming from clean Karroo areas for transmission to the coast may be inoculated previous to entering the infested belt .
April 27 , 1899 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
I. A First Study of the Variability and Correlation of the Hand .
" By Miss M. A. Whiteley , B.Se .
, and Karl Pearson , F.R.S. " On the Luminosity of the Rare Earths when heated in Vacuo by means of Cathode Rays .
" By A. A. Campbell Swinton .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. III .
" On a Quartz-thread Gravity Balance .
" By Richard Threlfall and J. A. Pollock .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. IV .
" On the Electrical Conductivity of Flames containing Salt Vapours .
" By Harold A. Wilson , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. V. " On a Self-recovering Coherer and the Study of the Cohering Action of different Metals .
" By Professor Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A. , D.Sc .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. VI .
" On the Presence of Oxygen in the Atmospheres of certain Fixed Stars .
" By David Gill , C.B. , F.R.S.

