The Croonian Lecture on the Arrangement and mechanical Action of the Muscles of Fishes .
By Anthony Carlisle , Esq. F.R.S. F.L , S , Read November 7 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 1 .
] The muscles of fishes , Mr. Carlisle says , are constructed very differently from those of the other natural classes of animals .
The medium in which fishes reside , the form of their bodies , and the instruments employed for their progressive motion , give them a character peculiarly distinct from the rest of the animal creation .
Their skleleton is simple , and their proportion of muscular flesh is remark1lI ably large- ; but the muscles have no tendinous cllords , their insertions being always fleshy .
There are , however , semi-transparent pearly tendons placed between the plates of muscles , which give origin to a series of short muscular fibres , passing nearly at right angles between the surfaces of the adjoining plates .
the progressive motion of fishes , our author says , is chiefly performed by the flexions of the trunk and tail ; the pairs of fins , which some have considered as analogous to feet , being only employed for the purposes of turning , stopping , altering the position of the fish towards the horizon , and keeping the back upwards .
The single fins appear to prevent the rolling of the body whilst the tail is eminployed to impel it forwards .
Each of the fins , which are in pairs , is capable of four motions , viz. of flexion and extension , like oars , and of expanding the rays , and closing them .
Mr. Carlisle now ( taking the Cod as a stanldard of comparison , ) describes particularly the mode in which the various motions here spoken of are performed , and then relates some experiments made to determine the effect of the fins on the motions of fishes .
For this purpose a number of dace , equal in size , were put into a large vessel of water , and the pectoral fins of one of them being cut off , it was replaced with the others .
The result was , that the progressive motion of the fish was not at all impeded ; but its head inclined downwards ; and when it attempted to ascend , the effort was attended with difficulty .
From another fish , both the pectoral and abdominal fins were taken .
The fish remained at the bottom of the vessel , and could not be made to ascend .
Its progressive motion was not perceptibly more slow ; but when the tail acted , the body showed a tendency to roll , and the single fins were widely expanded , as if to counteract this effect .
From a third fish the single fins were removed .
This produced an evident tendency to turn round , and the pectoral fins were kept constantly extended , to obviate that motion .
From a fourth fish all the fins were removed .
Its back was kept in a vertical position , whilst at rest , by the expansion of the tail ; but it rolled half round at every attempt to move .
From a fifth fish the tail was cut off as close to the body as possible .
The progressive motion of the fish was considerably impeded , and the flexions of the spine were much increased ; but neither the pectoral nor the abdominal fins seemed to be more actively employed .
From a sixth fish all the fins and the tail were removed .
It remained without motion , floating near the surface of the water , with its belly upward .
The above experiments were repeated on the roach , the gudgeon , and the minnow , with similar results .
Mr. Carlisle now observes , that the muscles of fishes differ very materially in their structure from those of other animals ; that they are apparently more homogeneous ; that their fibres are not so much fasciculated , but run more parallel to each other , and are always Pr comparatively shorter ; and that they become corrugated at the temperature of 156 ?
of Fahrenheit , when their tendinous and ligamentous attachments are dissolved , and their serous juices coagulated .
He then proceeds to give a very minute description of the situation and arrangement of the various series which form what are called the lateral muscles of the body .
The nerves belonging to these muscles are also described ; and mention is made of loose transparent vesicles about the size of a millet-seed , containing a white substance like carbonate of lime , which vesicles are found within the sheath of the nerves , at the point of their junctions .
The rate at which fishes move through so dense a medium as water , is , our author says , very remarkable ; and although this may be partly accounted for by the large proportion of muscles , and their advantageous application , yet the power would be inadequate to the effect if it were not suddenly exerted : this appears from the slow progress of eels , and such other fishes as , from their length and flexibility , are incapable of giving a sudden lateral stroke .
But the quickness and force of action in the muscles of fishes is counterpoised by the short duration of their power .
Those accustomed to the diversion of angling , know how soon the strength of fishes is exhausted ; for if the hooked fish is kept in constant action , it soon loses the ability to preserve its balance , and turns upon its side .
This , Mr. Carlisle says , has been vulgarly attributed to drowning , in consequence of the mouth being closed upon the hook ; but the same effects , he says , take place when the hook is fastened to the side or the tail ; and he thinks that this prostration of strength may depend partly on fear , and partly on interrupted respiration ; since fishes , when swimming rapidly , keep the membrance branchiostegee closed , and when nearly exhausted , act violently with their gills .
The shortness of the muscular fibres , and the multiplied ramifications of the blood-vessels , are probably peculiar adaptations for the purpose of gaining velocity of action , which seems invariably connected with a very limited duration of it .
Such examples , our author thinks , form an obvious contrast with the muscular structure of slowmoving animals , and with those partial arrangements where unusual continuance of action is concomitant .
Since Mr. Carlisle 's former communications respecting the arteries of slow-moving muscles , another instance has been pointed out to him by Mr. Macartney , in the muscles of the feet and toes of birds , which seems to be an adaptation for the alternate rest of their limbs while sleeping .
The muscles of the human body which perform the most rapid actions , have their fibres subdivided by transverse tendons , or are arranged in a penniform direction .
The semni-tendinosus and semimenmbrazosus of the thigh are thus constructed , and the recti abdominis are divided into short masses by transverse tendons .
All these muscles cooperate in the action of leaping .
These observations , the author thinks , tend to explain that diversity which is found in the lengths of various muscles that act together ; as by that means organs of velocity are joined with those of power .

