I. A Description of an extraordinary Rainbow observed July 15 , 1748 .
by Peter Daval , Esq ; Sec. R. S. UPON Monday the 18th of July 1748 .
about a Quarter before Seven in the Evening , the Weather being temperate , and the Wind about N. N. W. as I was walking in the Fields , beyond Islington , I saw a distant Rainbow which appeared to take in a large Portion of the Heavens ; but had nothing remarkable , and vanished by degrees .
Read Oct. 26 , 1749 .
Continuing my Walk , about twenty Minutes after the Disappearing of the first Rainbow , a rainy Cloud crossed me , moving gently with the Wind , which exhibited to me a more perfect and distinct Rainbow , than I had ever before seen ; wherein I could plainly distinguish all the secondary Orders of Colours taken Notice of by the late Dr. Langwith in his Letters to Dr. Jurin published in the Philosophical Transactions* , that is , to say , within the Purple of the common Rainbow , there were Arches of the following Colours .
1 .
Yellowish Green , darker Green , Purple .
2 .
Green , Purple .
3 .
Green Purple .
* Vid. Phil. Trans. No. 375 .
from Page 241 to 245 .
Ab .
Trans. ( Eames and Martin ) Vol. 6 .
p. 122 , 123 .
This innermost arch Dr. Langwith calls faint vanishing Purple , and I likewise found , that it sometimes appeared and disappeared alternately ; but during about two Minutes it seemed to me to be as permanent as any of the other Colours .
I stood still , and looked attentively at this Appearance , during the whole Time of its Continuance , which was near eight Minutes , and could for the greatest Part of that Time discern all the above-mention 'd Colours , except the innermost Purple in the upper Parts of the Bow ; but could not distinguish any of them in those Parts of it which were near the Horizon , tho ' they were extremely vivid , as was likewise the outer Bow , in which the Colours appeared as bright , tho ' not so well defined , as in most inner Rainbows I had seen .
As I had read Dr. Langwith 's Letter a short time before I saw this beautiful Appearance , and as I compared his Account with what I had seen , the same Evening , and again the next Morning , I can the better be assured of the exact Agreement of our Observations .
On my first seeing this Phenomenon , I was surprised , that the Diameter of the Bow appeared to me very small , compared with that I had seen a little before .
The Occasion of this I think must have been , that the Legs of the first-mention 'd Bow appeared to me to terminate at distant Places : Whereas in the latter Appearance I could plainly see both Ends of the inner and outer Bows terminated in the neighbouring Fields , at a very small Distance from each other : Hence , and from my being involved in the Shower which occasioned this Rainbow , I conclude it was very near me ; which might be one Cause of the great Vividness of its Colours , and of my distinguishing the inner Arches .
But whether this was the only Cause of those Appearances , or whether they might not be owing to some particular Disposition of the Atmospher at that Time , I much question : As well because I have often seen Rainbows which have been very near me , and opposed to a bright Sun , wherein I could not discern these inner Orders of Colours , as that I have heard from some intelligent Persons , that some very bright Rainbows were seen soon after the Solar Eclipse which happened on the 14th of July 1748 .
particularly that an unusually vivid and distinct Rainbow was observed at Twickenham three or four Days after that Eclipse , which agrees with the Day on which I saw the above-mention 'd Appearance .

