4 .
" On the Aurora Borealis which occurred on the evening of Friday , the 17th of November , 1848 .
" By Mr. R. Smith , Blackford , Perthshire .
Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , F.R.S. The author states that the 17th of November was a fine day with a clear sky and bright sunshine : towards evening the sky became cloudy and a few drops of rain fell , but it soon again became clear , with the exception of a few fleecy clouds that here and there dimmed its brightness .
At 6 ' 45 ' a soft and gentle light began to illumine the northern region of the sky ; and at 7 o'clock a considerable portion of it was covered with dark-red streams of light towards the east ; while streamers moving to and fro , arrayed in colours of golden and silvery hues , overspread the south and north .
About 8 o'clock there appeared near the zenith , and upon the magnetic meridian , a ring of an elliptical form , from which proceeded in all directions towards the horizon , beams or columns of light , giving to the heavens the appearance of a splendid vault , with its top adorned with a crown or wreath ; while around and within the vault were to be seen clouds of brilliant light flashing towards and from the crown or central circle of the aurora , sometimes tinged with prismatic rays , at other times intensely white and lucid .
About half-past nine nearly the whole of th aerial canopy was clad with clouds of a bright red colour , casting a curious reddened hue over the objects on the surface of the earth .
After a short period of time had elapsed , the red colour began to diminish in intensity , and was again replaced by the white dome .
However , in various parts of the sky the red colour still remained , principally in the north-west , southwest , and north-east .
Between the hours of twelve and one beams of brilliant white light commenced shooting up in the south from the horizon to the central ring or pole .
The beams appeared to be at nearly equal distances from each other , the entire column of them stretching over a space equal to about one-fifth part of the visible horizon , in the form of a fan .
The whole figure rapidly changed from a pure white light into a glow of brilliant colours of every tint , variegating the undulating waves as they rolled on their way to the pole of the aurora .
In the course of three minutes these gave place to the white flashing radiations .
During the time of the aurora there were a great number of small mneteors , the direction of whose motion was from east to west , and which appeared to be considerably below the sphere of the aurora .
A box containing a delicately balanced needle , was exposed upon the ground during the display of the aurora , but did not appear to be affected in the slightest degree till about one o'clock , when it was observed to be considerably deflected .
At the time when the needle was disturbed , there was a dense column of radiating light in the north-west and south-east .
The reflexion from the north-west was so clear , that when made to fall upon the polarizing plate of M. Biot 's polarizing apparatus , and a film of mica was placed upon the stage of the instrument , the various colours produced by the mica were beautifully clear and distinctly seen in the analysing glass .
The author considers that the phenomenon of the colours which were noticed , was probably caused by exhalations or vapour floating in the atmosphere , betwixt the light of the aurora and the observer , causing a refraction of the rays transmitted to the eye , analogous to that which produces the phenomenon of halos .
The continued undulations of the auroral light , and also the passing of the rays through thick and thin portions of the vapour , may , he considers , have produced the great variety of colours .
During the time of the exhibition of this phenomenon , a thin fog or vapour was observed on both sides of the auroral fan .
The author is of opinion that the cause which produced the variety of tints , is different from that which occasioned the red-coloured auroral clouds .
At the time of the latter phenomenon the moon 's position was nearly due east , and a cloud moved from the west towards the east , which in its course passed between the moon and the observer ; as soon as the cloud obscured the light of the moon , the red colour to the north-west disappeared , but became visible when an opening in the cloud allowed the rays to pass through , and again vanished when another portion of the cloud cut off the light ; and when the cloud had finally passed over , the red colour in the different parts of the sky resumed the same tint that it possessed before the moonlight was obscured by the cloud .
The author states that it would thus appear , that when the light of the moon was incident at a certain angle upon the white light , or some kind of vapour that surrounded it , a red colour was produced ; and hence that the moon is in some way or other connected with the phenomenon .
He remarks , that the red colour was first observed in the east , and the moon being in that quarter of the heavens , the rays proceeding from it would first come in contact with that part of the aurora towards the east .
When the aurora commenced , the moon was considerably below the horizon ; but this , it is considered , does not form any serious objection to what has been stated , since the aurora soared to so great a height , that the rays of light proceeding from her would strike the aurora a considerable time before she arose above the horizon .
The aurora continued for upwards of six hours , and during that time the thermometer stood at 34

