66 December 10 , 1857 .
The LORD WROTTESLEY , President , in the Chair .
Mr. Robert Angus Smith was admitted into the Society .
The President announced that he had appointed the following gentlemen Vice-Presidents , viz. Mr. Gassiot , Mr. Grove , Dr. Hooker , Mr. Horner , and Mr. Owen .
The following communications were read : I. " On the Chemical Action of Water on Soluble Salts .
" By Dr. J. H. GLADSTONE , F.R.S. Received November 19,1857 .
Before extending my researches on chemical affinity among substances in solution , it seemed desirable to ascertain , if possible , what specific chemical action water exerts on a salt .
This inquiry is beset with unusual difficulties , and unfortunately my experiments have not led to any conclusive result .
Yet some of the observations made during the course of the inquiry have a value independent of theory , and a brief notice of them may not perhaps be deemed unworthy of a place in the Proceedings of the Royal Society .
It is well known that many anhydrous salts will absorb water , and still remain solid bodies , either amorphous or crystallized .
In such a case the water combined is always in simple atomic relation with the salt itself ; great heat is often evolved , and a change of colour frequently ensues .
These " hydrated " salts ( as they are usually considered ) are generally soluble in water ; and it is the condition of such a body when dissolved that opens a wide field for speculation .
The water may act merely as a solvent ; or it may unite without decomposition with the dissolved salt , becoming an integral part of the compound in solution ; or reciprocal decomposition may ensue , each electro-positive element combining with each electro-negative one in certain proportions ; or the ultimate result may be due to two or more of these modes of action in conjunction .
When a " hydrated " salt is dissolved in a minimum of water , 67 nothing is usually observed beyond the new physical properties resulting from the change in its state of aggregation and the absorption of heat .
No change of colour , as far as I can find , ever ensues , though a change in the amount of fluorescence may occur .
When an anhydrous salt , which will not combine with water to form a solid compound , dissolves , a change of colour does sometimes ensue .
Sometimes , however , an evident decomposition takes place , the hydrogen and oxygen of the water combining each with one of the elements of the other binary compound , and the products of this action remaining uncombined .
Chloride of bismuth and citrate of ammonia are instances .
But in the vast majority of instances , the salt MR and the water HO do not suffer reciprocal decomposition , unless indeed , as has been contended , the resulting MO , HR remain combined together in solution .
If a reciprocal decomposition of this character actually occurs , it may be anticipated by analogy , that by increasing the amount of HO , more MR will be decomposed .
Now , if additional water be added to saturated aqueous solutions of pentachloride of antimony , ferric sulphate , ammoniacal nitrate of copper , or nitrate of bisnmuth , decomposition results , and a precipitate forms proportional within certain limits to the amount of water added ; but not one of these is a salt of the simplest constitution .
Sometimes , however , a change is rendered apparent in simple salts by a change of colour without the formation of a precipitate .
This was closely examined .
It might be expected , a priori , that a certain amount of salt would have the same absorbent effect on a given quantity of light , whether it were dissolved in much or little water , and that as the absorbent power of water is practically nil , it would appear to the eye of precisely the same depth and character of colour in the two cases .
And this actually holds good in the majority of instances ; but to prove it a special contrivance was necessary , in order to make the same quantity of light impinge upon the solution before and after dilution .
This was effected by means of colourless cylindrical glasses of uniform diameter and the same size , closed at one end with a flat plate of glass , so that when placed upright they could hold liquids : they stood in a case so contrived that all the light which passed through the strong or diluted solution , as looked through from above , had to enter by the flat plate r 68 at the bottom .
Every experiment was performed by a comparative method , two glasses being placed side by side , one containing the solution to be diluted , the other a similar quantity of the same solution which served as a standard .
In this manner it was determined that the following salts absorbed the same light whether dissolved in much or in little water : Ferrous Sulphate .
Ferric Nitrate .
Ferric Meconate .
Ferric Comenate .
Ferric Comenamate .
Ferric Gallate .
Nitrate of Nickel .
Nitrate of Cobalt .
Sulphate of Cobalt .
Chloride of Chromium .
Acetate of Chromium .
Chromate of Chromium .
Nitrate of Uranium .
Chloride of Uranium .
Sulphate of Ceric Oxide .
Terchloride of Gold .
Terbromide of Gold .
Protochloride of Platinum ( in hydrochloric acid ) .
Bichloride of Platinum , Bichloride of Palladium , Chromate of Potash .
Ferrocyanide of Potassium .
Ferridcyanide of Potassium .
Nitroprusside of Sodium .
Sulphindigotic acid .
Sulphindigotate of Ammonia .
Carbazotate of Copper .
Pentasulphide of Potassium .
The following salts were affected in regard to their absorption of light , by adding water to their saturated solutions : Salt .
Saturated solution .
Dilute solution .
Ferric Acetate .
Red .
Darker .
Ferric Tartrate .
Red .
Slightly paler .
, Ferric Chloride .
Orange-red .
Orange-yellow .
Ferric Citrate .
Red .
Orange and paler .
Ferric Sulphocyanide .
Intense red .
Orange .
Chloride of Nickel .
Yellowish green .
Bluish green .
Iodide of Nickel .
Deep green .
Paler blue-green .
'Chloride of Cobalt .
Red .
Paler and less pure .
Iodide of Cobalt .
Deep green .
Pale red .
Acetate of Cobalt .
Red .
Paler and more orange .
Sulphocyanide of Cobalt .
Intense purple .
Pale red .
Chloride of Copper .
Green .
Blue .
Bromide of Copper .
Green .
Blue .
Acetate of Copper .
Greenish blue .
Paler and purer blue .
Permanganate of Potash .
Purple .
Paler and redder .
Chromic acid .
IRed .
Orange .
That these changes of colour are due to the action of the water , and not to any merely physical cause , is proved by the fact that alcohol does not occasion them .
Quantitative experiments were instituted with acetate of copper and sulphocyanide of iron , to determine whether the effect of successive additions of water is in a decreasing ratio .
It was found to be so on the whole , but the 69 results showed certain irregularities that do not usually occur in cases of reciprocal decomposition , where the mass of one of the compounds is successively increased .
A prismatic examination of the rays absorbed by these salts in different states of solution revealed two very suggestive facts .
The one is , that in every case ( except ferric acetate ) the salt in dilute solution not only transmits every ray that was transmitted by it in saturated solution , but also some rays which it then absorbed .
The other is , that strong solutions of the chlorides , bromides , and iodides of copper , cobalt , nickel , and iron-analogous metals-exhibit not only the absorption due to the respective bases , but another absorption which can be identified with that produced by the halogens themselves when simply dissolved in water ; while , when these solutions are diluted , they cease to produce this second absorption , and give precisely the same prismatic image as any compound of the same base with a colourless acid .
The amount of water required to effect this change depends on the temperature .
That the phenomena indicate some difference of arrangement among the elements of the dissolved salt and the water , cannot , I think , be doubted , but they fail to show in any distinct manner what that difference is .
The action of water on double salts is a still more complicated problem ; but the question as to whether water separates the two components did not prove so difficult of decision .
While on the one hand the physical properties of many double salts , as for instance the potassio-chloride or iodide of platinum , prove that they are not decomposed by water , the experiments of Graham , on the other hand , show that some salts , as for instance alum , suffer at least a partial decomposition in diffusion .
The iodide of mercury and potassium , and the sulphocyanide of silver and potassium , dissolve in a small quantity of water , but the addition of more causes the separation of the insoluble component .
The double sulphates of copper , nickel , or chromium with potash , the sulphate of copper and ammonia , the chloride of platinum .
and potassium , the iodides of platinum or gold with potassium , and the hydrochlorate of chloride of gold , do not change in colour on the dilution of their aqueous solutions ; but this does not prove that no separation has taken place , for the colour of these double salts in solution is precisely that of an equivalent amount of that component 70 to which the colour is due .
But bichlorate of potash and bicomenamate of iron likewise exhibit no change of colour on dilution , though such must ensue , if they be converted into neutral salt and free acid .
On the other hand , the red potassio-oxalate of chromium varies in intensity of colour on the addition of water , and the different double chlorides of copper undergo the same change as the simple salt .
If hydrochlorate of terchloride of gold be added to the terbromide of that metal , a reduction in colour ensues , and an analogous result is obtained when the double sulphate of copper and potash acts on the acetate of copper-facts which point to a decomposition of the double salt in solution .
Indeed it is evident that some double salts are resolved more or less into their components by water , while others are not so affected .
The general tendency of my observations has led me to the opinion , that water does not act upon a salt dissolved in it in a manner analogous to that of the hydracids , but I hesitate to draw any conclusion as to the rational constitution of a dissolved salt .
II .
" On the Molecular Properties of Antimony .
" By GEORGE GORE , Esq. Communicated by Dr. TYNDALL , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) Antimony may be readily deposited by the electro-process from either of the following liquids:-5 parts of tartar-emetic and 5 parts of tartaric acid dissolved in a mixture of 2 parts of hydrochloric acid and 30 parts of water ; or 3 or 4 parts of tartar-emetic dissolved in 1 part of the ordinary chloride of antimony .
The metallic deposits obtained from these two liquids differ greatly in appearance , in structure , and in physical properties : that obtained from the first liquid has a silver-grey colour and frosted surface , is hard in texture , and has a beautiful radiating crystalline structure ; whilst that obtained from the second liquid has the colour and appearance of highly polished steel , and has a bright metallic amorphous fracture .
The specific gravity of the former is 6'55 , whilst that of the latter is 5'78 , both being somewhat variable in this respect .
The electro-chemical equivalent of the crystalline variety ,

