On the Illumination of Laight-houses .
By Lieut. Thomas Drummond , of the Royal Engineers .
Communicated by Lieut.-Colonel Colby , of the Royal Engineers , F.R.S. Read June 17 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 383 .
] The author , after briefly describing the different methods at present employed for illuminating light-houses , proceeds to detail what he considers an improvement upon those now in use .
This consists in substituting for the Argand burner a small ball of lime , ignited by the combustion of oxygen and hydrogen .
From this small ball , only three eighths of an inch in diameter , so brilliant a light is emitted , that it equals in quantity about 13 Argand lamps , or 120 wax candles ; while in intensity , or intrinsic bright-. .
ness , it cannot be less than 260 times that of an Argand lamp .
These remarkable results are deduced from a series of experiments made lately at the Trinity House ; and having been repeated with every precaution , and by different individuals , there seems no reason to doubt their accuracy .
In the best of our revolving lights , such as that of Beachy Head , there are no less than 30 reflectors , 10 on each side .
If , then , a single reflector , illuminated by a lime ball , be substituted for each of these 10 , the effect of the three would be 26 times greater than that of the 30 .
On account of the smaller divergence of the former , it would be necessary to double their number , placing them in a hexagon instead of a triangle ; in this case , the expense is estimated at nearly the same .
This method was tried lately at Purfleet , in a temporary light-house , erected for the purpose of experiments by the Corporation of the Trinity House ; and its superiority over all the other lights with which it was contrasted , was fully ascertained and acknowledged .
On the evening of the 25th of May , when there was no moonlight , and the night dark , with occasional showers , the appearance of the light , viewed from Blackwall , a distance of ten miles , was described as being very splendid .
Distinct shadows were discernible , even on a dark brick wall , though no trace of such shadows could be perceived when the other lights , consisting of 7 reflectors , with Argand lamps and the French lens , were directed on the same spot .
Another striking and beautiful effect , peculiar to this light , was discernible when the reflector was turned , so as to be itself invisible to the spectator .
A long stream of rays was seen issuing from the spot where the light was known to be placed , and illuminating the horizon to a great distance .
As the reflector revolved , this immense luminous cone swept the horizon , and indicated the approach of the light long before it could itself be seen from the position of the reflector .
These singular effects must not , however , be understood as constant accompaniments of this light ; for on a moonlight night , or when the weather is very hazy , they cease to appear .

