496 Note on the Discovery of New Trypanosoma .
" Note on the Discovery of a New Trypanosoma .
" By David Bruce , F.R.S. , Lieut.-Col. , R.A.M.C. Received February 24 , \#151 ; Read February 27 , 1902 .
I have received from South Africa specimens of blood taken from .cattle which contain a new species of Trypanosoma .
This new species can be at once distinguished from the Trypanosomas of Surra , Tse-tse Fly Disease , or Rat by its larger size , it being almost twice as large as any of the others .
In general appearance it conforms closely to the others in possessing an oval protoplasmic body , a longitudinal fin-like membrane , and a single flagellum .
This new Trypanosoma was lately discovered by Dr. A. Theiler , who is in charge of the Bacteriological Laboratory of the Medical Officer of Health , Pretoria , Transvaal .
He states that at first he was under the impression that he had merely hit against the familiar Trypanosoma of tse-tse fly disease .
He , however , was struck by its larger size , and tried a few inoculation \#166 ; experiments .
He found that the new Trypanosoma only infects cattle .
Horses , dogs , goats , rabbits , and guinea-pigs are all immune , neither showing symptoms nor the presence of the parasites in the blood .
With the same blood he infected two calves , which showed distinct febrile reaction , and at the same time the parasites appeared in the blood .
He found the parasite for the first time in the blood of a young ox which had just recovered from an attack of rinderpest , and since then has successfully inoculated calves from two other cattle .
He describes the disease as an acute pernicious ansemia with grave blood changes , a general anaemia without deformation of the elements of the blood , or , lastly , only a slight fever , and that there exists a natural immunity in cattle against this Trypanosoma .
He is of opinion that this disease is the same as that attiibuted by Dr. Kolle__who studied rinderpest in South Africa with Koch during the last outbreak\#151 ; to bovine malaria .
Dr. Kolle overlooked the Trypanosoma , saw that the disease was infectious , and thought he observed endoglobular parasites and pigment in the red blood corpuscles . .
, As this discovery seems to me to be an interesting one , and as Dr. Theiler deserves great credit for the observation , I would propose that this Trypanosoma be named after the discoverer Trypanosoma Theileri .

