1885 .
] Total Solar Eclipse of September 9 , 1885 .
211 troscopic , and other observations that require special instruments , but the following extracts may be of use to most observers :\#151 ; Drawings of the corona have only seldom proved to be of great utility .
If such drawings are attempted on the present occasion , observers ought to pay attention to the general outline of the corona rather than to points of detail .
A plumb line ought to be suspended , if possible , between the observer and the sun , so as to fix the position of the corona in the sky as accurately as possible .
The vertical line ought to be indicated on the drawing .
Observers will find it useful to draw the black disk of the sun and the vertical line before the beginning of totality . . . .
Observers unpractised in accurate drawing will obtain more useful results by paying attention to certain features of the corona than by attempting what can only be a very rough and inaccurate sketch of the corona .
Definite answers as to the following questions , for instance , would be of great value:\#151 ; ( a. ) To what distance from the sun , estimated in solar diameters , can you trace the corona ?
( \amp ; ) Does it extend further in some directions than in others , and what are the directions of greatest and least extent ?
( c ) Is there a line of approximate symmetry in the corona , and what is the direction of that line ?
The answers to the last two questions ought , if possible , to be given in angles from the vertical line , or from some definite great circle .
II .
" On the Total Solar Eclipse of September 9 , 1885 ( in a Letter to J. N. Lockyer , F.R.S. ) .
" By A. S. Atkinson .
Received November 19 , 1885 .
I observed the eclipse from a spot in my own ground in Nelson , which , as determined for the transit of Venus , is in lat. 41 ' 1/ ' 1'9 S. , and long .
173 ' 17 ' ST'S ' ' E. The sky was very clear , and there was no wind , but the air was optically very unsteady .
As totality was approaching , perhaps two or three minutes before , I tried with the telescope ( 5-in .
Cooke , power 60 ) if I could see anything of the corona behind the moon , but could not in the time I allowed myself ; I was afraid of waiting longer , as I had made arrangements for taking some small photographs , and had to superintend ; and as I wished also to answer the questions of the Committee of the Royal Society , I thought it best to observe the main phase with the naked eye .
I may , perhaps , note here , that in finding my way with the telescope to the moon 's following limb , I chanced upon Jupiter , the appearance 212 Total Solar Eclipse of September 9 , 1885 .
[ Nov. 19 , of \#166 ; which surprised me greatly .
It was , of course , " boiling " a good deal , but at the moment I caught sight of it , it seemed to have one broad uniform equatorial belt , with at least its northern edge rather sharply marked ; in breadth it seemed about ojie-third of the planet 's ( polar ) diameter , and in colour distinctly pink .
This belt disappeared and reappeared with the motion of the air .
I shifted my eye in the telescope , but the breadth and colour seemed constant on each reappearance , so long as I looked , which was not , however , very long .
As the sun was just disappearing , the most striking phenomenon I noticed , looking straight at it , was a strongly marked pulsation in its light ; those who were looking away from it saw waves of shadow passing rather rapidly over the ground .
This also , I supposed , was from the unsteadiness of the air , but to me it seemed not the least striking part of the great spectacle to see the sun flickering as it were before it went out .
The following are my answers to the questions of the committee :\#151 ; ? .
I estimated the greatest distance from the moon 's limb to which I could trace the corona as from two-thirds to three-fourths of a diameter . ? .
The corona extended much farther in one direction than in any other .
By far the greatest feature in the corona was a broad-based but hollow-sided cone of white light , with well-marked edges , and a rather sharp point , the axis of which I judged to be from 40 ' to 45 ' from the perpendicular towards the west .
The " least extent " of the corona , as I saw it , was the same in several places , where there was only a narrow rim of light round the moon 's limb .
There were other smaller but more or less similar prominences of pure white light , all of which , I may say , gave me the idea of radiating from the sun 's centre .
c. There was , in my opinion , no line of " approximate symmetry ' ' in the corona .
I looked right round the sun with a view to answer this question , and that was the conclusion I came to without hesitation .
As there was nothing to balance the large 8 cone , " the nearest approach to symmetry would have been obtained by taking its axis as the line , but I should not have called the result of this division " approximately symmetrical .
" The only red prominences I saw were a row of six or seven small ones ( Bailey 's beads ?
) extending from about the vertex towards the east .
Large ones were seen by others , and I believe are those which alone appear in the photographs .
Mr. J. R. Akersten obtained for me two photographs during totality , one immediately after it began with an exposure of probably a little less than a second ; the other a few seconds later , with about double the exposure .
A third plate was all but ready when the sun 1885 .
] Report on the Deposits of the Nile Delta .
213 reappeared ; it was taken just afterwards , bat still shows some of the " red flames .
" I took the duration of totality with a stop-watch , but afterwards by a momentary inadvertence lost the record .
I may add that at a time which I estimated to be from 15 to 20 seconds after the sun 's reappearance , I could with the naked eye easily see the coronal light round the preceding limb of the moon , and called the attention of the bystanders to the fact .
In conclusion I would add as some evidence of the clear sky which we commonly get in Nelson , that from my own knowledge not only the whole of this eclipse , but egress in both the late transits of Venus could not have been better seen than from this place .
( Signed ) A. S. Atkinson .
III .
" Report on a Series of Specimens of the Deposits of the Nile Delta , obtained by the recent Boring Operations .
" By J. W. Judd , F.R.S. , Sec. G.S. , Professor of Geology in the Normal Sehool of Science and Royal School of Mines .
Communicated by desire of the Delta Committee .
Received November 12 , 1885 .
Neither of the borings made for the Royal Society , under the superintendence of the Engineers attached to the Army of Occupation in Egypt , appears to have reached the rocky floor of the Nile-Valley , nor do the samples examined show any indication of an approach to such floor .
What were at first supposed to be pebbles in one of the samples from Tantah , prove on examination to be calcareous concretions ( " race " or " kunkur " ) .
Nevertheless these borings appear to have reached a greater depth than all previous ones in the same district , except the boring made near the Barrage , which is said to have attained a depth of 122 feet without reaching the rock , and one at Rosetta which exceeded 153 feet .
The deepest boring made by the French engineers in 1799 , that at Siut , attained a depth of 77 feet 7f inches ; at a later date M. Linant de Bellefonds ( Linant Bay ) carried a boring near the apex of the Delta to the depth of 72 feet .
In the case of the excavations made for Mr. Horner about thirty years ago , with the aid of a grant from the Donation Fund of the Royal Society , few of the borings exceeded 50 feet in depth ; the deepest being that at Memphis , which reached 59 feet 10 inches .
The three borings now reported upon have been carried to depths of 45 , 73 , and 84 feet respectively .
The samples from these borings , like those examined by Mr. Horner , show that the delta-deposits all consist of admixtures , in

