3 .
" On the Production of Heat by Voltaic Electricity .
" By J. P. Joule , Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. The inquiries of the author are directed to the investigation of the cause of the different degrees of facility with which various kinds of metal , of different sizes , are heated by the passage of voltaic electricity .
The apparatus he employed for this purpose consisted of a coil of the wire , which was to be subjected to trial , placed in a jar of water , of which the change of temperature was measured by a very sensible thermometer immersed in it ; and a galvanometer , to indicate the quantity of electricity sent through the wire , which was estimated by the quantity of water decomposed by that electricity .
The conclusion he draws from the results of his experiments is , that the ca ?
lorific effects of equal quantities of transmitted electricity are proportional to the resistances opposed to its passage , whatever may be the length , thickness , shape , or kind of metal which closes the cir ?
cuit : and also that , cceteris paribus , these effects are in the duplicate ratio of the quantities of transmitted electricity ; and consequently also in the duplicate ratio of the velocity of transmission .
He also infers from his researches that the heat produced by the combustion of zinc in oxygen is likewise the consequence of resistance to electric conduction .
The President informed the Meeting that the Council had voted the following Address to Her Majesty , the Queen : ?
" To the Queen 's Most Excellent Majesty .
" The Humble Address of the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge .
" Most Gracious Sovereign , " We , Your Majesty 's most dutiful and loyal subjects , the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for im ?
proving Natural Knowledge , approach Your Majesty with the most heartfelt satisfaction at the birth of the Princess Royal .
We feel the deepest gratitude to the Almighty Disposer of events for His gracious protection vouchsafed to Your Majesty in your late confinement , and we ardently pray that the same protection may continue to be long afforded to a life so precious to all the inhabitants of these realms .
'* It is also our most ardent hope that Your Majesty 's daughter may grow up to be a pattern of every virtue that can adorn and dignify her high station , and that Your Majesty may continue to be blessed with every happiness , both public and private .
" The President also stated to the Meeting , that the Council had adopted the following Address to His Royal Highness Prince Albert , of Saxe Coburg and Gotha : ?
" To His Royal Highness Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha , K.G. , F.R.S. " The humble Address of the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge .
" May it please Your Royal Highness , " We , the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge , beg leave to tender to Your Royal Highness our warmest congratulations on the safety and recovery of Your Royal Highness 's Consort , our beloved Sovereign , and on the birth of Your Royal Highness 's daughter .
That she b may be the bond of your connubial happiness is our most sincere wish , and also that Divine Providence may long , very long , preserve Your Royal Highness 's life , in possession of every blessing , both as a husband and as a father .
"

