]\gt ; 1878 .
] Mr. I. Todhunter on Legendre 's Coefficients .
of the amount of current makes the strata distinct and steady. .
Most frequently a point of steadiness , sufficient for photographing , is produced by the careful introduction of external resistance ; subsequently the introduction of more resistance produces a new phase of unsteadiness , and still more resistance another phase of steady and distinct stratification .
7 .
The greatest in the viainity of the strata .
This can be best observed when the tube contains either only one stratum , or a small number separated by a broad interval .
There is reason to believe that even in the dark discharge there may be strata ; for we have found a development of heat in the middle of a tube , in which there was no illumination except on the terminals .
8 .
Even when the strata are to all perfectly steady , a pulsation can be detected in the current ; is not proved the depend upon ttence .
9 .
There no current from a bnttery through a tube divided by !
7 lass division into two chambers , and the tube only be by charges .
10 .
In the same tube and with the , a very xrieiy can be produced by varying the pressure and the current .
The luminosities sfrata , in their various forms , can be reproduced in the same tube , or in others having similar dv'mensions .
11 .
At the same pressure and with the same , the diameier of the tube affects the character and closeness of the strtificatio7 } .
II .
' Note on Legendre 's Coefficients By I. TODHUNTER , F.B.S. Received April 16 , 1878 .
In the " " Proceedings of the Royal Society vol. xxvii , pp. 63-7 ] , Professor Adams has given , by an inductive process , the development of the product of any two of Legendre 's in a series of the Coefficients ; from this is immediately deduced the value of the tegral between the limits -1 and of the product of any three of the Coefficients .
On the other hand , if we know the value of this definite integral , we can immediately deduce the development of th product of any two of the Coefficients .
Thus it may be of interest to a brief investigation of the value of the definite integral .
I follow the notation adopted by Professor Adams .
The formula to be established is whel.e , and the functional symbol is thus defined : if is a positive integer 382 Mr. I. Todhunter on Legendre 's Coefficients .
[ May 16 , and in all other cases is to be considered zero , except when and then it is to be considered It will be observed that , and this is the essential property of the function for our purpose .
The demonstration consists of three parts .
I. The proposed formuIa when m , whatever and may be .
This is seen to be true in virtue of the known theorem that .
is zero when and are unequal , and is equal to when II .
The proposed formula holds when , whatever and may be .
For by a known theorem we have therefore ; and this vanishes unless or , and then its value is , where .
And if we examine the formula to be established we shall find if the product vanishes , except when } or , and then it becomes unity .
Also ; and thus the required result is obtained .
III .
We shall now give an inductive process by which we show that if the formula holds for all values of and combined with the values and of the third , it will hold for all values of and combined with the value of the third integer .
For we can express by means of cases of the mula already established .
If we now put we thus obtain for the definite integral 1878 .
] Dr. A. Schuster on the Spectra of ilfetalloids .
.383 It is now mattor of ork ) pnt these thrce terms there b the aid of the of the function put the second thil.d terms cther we , and the first term is equed the of the lasb )ious is as it be .
I that the definite ussed 1Dr . .
C. result there obtained . .
" " On of oids .
\ldquo ; CHUbTE 1\ldquo ; Ph. D. , .R.A . .
I. VELL , 1 lt . .
of in the of ) ) ( Abstract .
) The ined penomella a of will p sicists .
It is subjcct old be oached f many ible .
Onc of our ltlost ) vcrfnl inments o ) ) ) , but befol .
C it bc lied to tho study in to the of the differcnt ) cuum tubcs , and to discuss in what liable to under to be

