]\gt ; The Relation of Thallium to thoe Metals .
It may be that each branch of our supersolubility curve is merely the solubility curve of an unstable modification which as soon as the liquid is supersaturated with regard to it , and then at once becomes converted into the ordinary stable modification ; if this were so , the curves to meet the vertical lines to pure salol and pure betol at points giving the temperatures of these unstable modifications .
The temperatures so determined are not actually the temperatures of any known modification of salol or betol , although several modifications have been recorded .
The Relation of Thalliurn to the Atkali Metals : Study of Thallium Selenate .
By A. E. H. TUTTON , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.B.S. ( Received May 3 , \mdash ; Read May 23 , 1907 .
) In this communication are given the results of a crystallographical ration of the normal sulphate and selenate of thallium , similar to the author 's previous researches on the normal sulphates and selenates of the alkali metals , potassium , rubidium , and caesium , and of ammonium .
* It thus completes the work commenced in the year 1893 the series of normal sulphates and selenates Crystals of thallium sulphate , prepared by Lamy , were ated in 1863 by von Lang , who found them to be orthorhombic and isomorphous with those of potassium sulphate .
The selenate does not appear to have been previously investigated , except that it was considered by Kuhlmann , and from preliminary observations of Des Cloiseaux and , to be also isomorphous with potassium selenate , and that the molecular volume was determined by Petterssen .
The investigation of these two salts , especially as regards the optical part , has been a difficult matter , on account of the Yery small size of the crystals , due to their slight solubility , which is only four and two parts respectively in 100 parts of water at the ordinary temperature .
Both salts 'Journ .
Chem. Soc ] , vol. 65 , p. 628 ; 1897 , vol. 71 , p. 846 ; 1903 , vol. 83 , 'Bull .
Soc. Chim 1864 ( 1 ) , p. 330 .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , crystallise from a hot aqueous solution in snow-white apparently opaque needles , useless for goniometrical purposes , which may be half an inch or more long in the case of the sulphate , but which are very small , even minute , in the case of the selenate .
From solutions only slightly supersaturated small elongated plates separate , which are more suitable for goniometrical measurement .
They are orthorhombic prisms , very .
thin perpendicular to the brachypinakoid , which thus vastly predominates .
They are extremely highly reflective , affordin quite unusually brilliant images of the signal slit of the goniometer , rendering them much more suitable for measurement than their unpromising appearance would lead one to suppose , and their adamantine lustre and translucency is , doubtless , also connected with this exceptional power of reflecting light .
The prism faces are often much striated , but an adequate number of crystals have eventually been obtained from a few crops out of the very many which have been prepared , which were quite free from striation or distortion of any kind , and which were also of adequate thickness to afford excellent reflections from most of the other faces as well as from those 01 the brachypinakoid .
The optical investigation , however , has met with grave obstacles , and it is only after very numerous failures that at length the necessary transparent section plates and prisms have been prepared , and the optical constants successfully determined .
Moreover , the refractive indices of two salts are so high , very nearly two , as to be higher than those of the immersion liquids , methylene iodide and mono-bromnaphthalene , usually employed in determinations of optic axial angles .
Further , the specific gravity of both salts is twice as great as that of methylene iodide , so that the immersion method of Retgers cannot be employed for its determination .
How all these exceptional difficulties have been overcome will be briefly explained under each particular heading .
Thallium Sulphate , Preparation and Analysus .
material started with consisted of specially purified thallium sulphate , supplied by Merck , which was several times recrystallised before use .
A determination of the content of thallium in one of the crops employed in the investigation was made , by dissolving gramme in an adequate quantity of distilled water to ensure complete solution , converting it , into thallium iodide by addition of excess 01 potassium iodide solution , boiling to effect perfect decomposition , off the yellow insoluble ( in cold water ) thallium iodide when quite cold on to a weighed filter paper , washing , drying at , and weighing .
1907 .
] The Relation of Thallium to the Alkali Metals .
The weight of thus obtained was , which corresponds to per cent. of th.allium in the crystals of thallium sulphate .
The calculated percentage is Solubility in Water.\mdash ; Two determinations were made for the ordinary and boiling temperatures .
The results showed that : 100 grammes of water at dissolve grammes of tballium sulphate .
\ldquo ; These numbers are in substantial agreement with those of Lamy , which are for and for oniometry .
Crystal System.\mdash ; Orthorhombic , holohedral class .
Habit.\mdash ; Tabular parallel to , and thin prismatic to acicular parallel to the axis Ratio of Axes . .
Von Lang found : 0.7319 .
Forms observed .
{ 012 } , The spherical projection common to the whole series of alkali sulphates and selenates , to ammonium sulphate , and to thallium sulphate and selenate , is given in fig. 1 , and a typical crystal of thallium sulphate , as obtained ( X FIG. 1 .
VOL. LXXIX.\mdash ; A. 2 354 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , by crystallisation from only slightly supersaturated solutions , is shown in fig. 2 .
FIG. 2 .
Angles.\mdash ; The results of the measurements obtained with a dozen of the most perfect crystals , selected from four of the most satisfactory crops , are given in the accompanying table , together with the calculated values and the angular values found by von Lang .
The best developed form is invariably the brachypinakoid , the prisms being usually relatively long thin plates parallel to and formed by the faces of this form , tlJe length being parallel to the axis .
The reflections from these broad -faces were generally excellent , as were also those from the narrower faces of the basal pinakoid , the latter , indeed , being almost always perfect , affording absolutely single and very brilliant of the signal slit .
The faces of the intermediate primary brachyprism in this ated zone also yielded very good reflections , and to a somewhat less extent so also did those of the brachy-prism .
The form was observed on four of the crystals measured , and the were quite trustworthy .
The primary pyranlid is always the predominating end form , and the images yielded by its faces were also very good , although not quite so brilliant as those of the forms in the zone [ bqc ] .
The faces of the secondary pyramid were twice observed , and , although very small , yielded truStvorthy reflections .
1907 .
] The Relatvon of Thallium to the .
355 Morphological Angles of Thallium Sulphate .
19 57\mdash ; 20 14 36 13\mdash ; 36 26 65 53\mdash ; 66 19 86 54\mdash ; 37 9 '3 14 21 27 54 356 Dr. A. E. .
Tutton .
[ May 3 , On the other hand , the faces of the primary prism were invariably poor , being both distorted and badly reflecting , quite exceptionally so , and this was rendered the more by the brilliance and planeness of the other primary faces .
In this respect thallium differs remarkably from the sulphates of the alkali metals proper\mdash ; potassium , rubidium , and caesium , and from ammonium sulphate .
Even when these primary prism faces were quite , as not unfrequently happened , they were always dull , and distorted , and untrustworthy as regards their reflections .
The smaller faces of the prism were , likewise , similarly affected by distortion .
The mean values of the involving these faces , however , the individual values .
only the chosen best , well with those calculated from the irreproachably determined basal angles oq and co , so that there is no uity as to the positions of the faces in question .
The macropinakoid was not observed on any of the crystals .
Von Lang also remarked the same elongation parallel to the axis which corresponded in his description with the author 's axis , the tabular development parallel to the brachypinakoid , and the brilliance and adamantine lustre of the faces .
\mdash ; The investigation of the cleavage directions was a difficult matter , owing to the small size of the crystals .
The chief cleavage , a perfect one , is parallel to the tabular plane of the thin plates , namely , the brachypinakoid , .
The crystals also cleave parallel to the basal pinakoid , but the cleavage in this direction is not so perfect .
elative Density.\mdash ; The four values for the specific gravity at , compared with that of water at , were obtained by the author 's pyknometer-with-cap method , the Betgers immersion method being unavailable , on account of the specific gravity of the crystals being higher than that of any immersion liquid .
Carbon tetrachloride was the liquid employed in the pyknometer , its specific gravity bein freshly redetermined .
The weight of the exceedingly finely powdered and carefully dried salt used varied from to grammes .
Specific of at , 67545 .
The value accepted is , the highest of the individual values obtained .
as being nearest the truth , any slight error in the pyknometer method results being invariably in the direction of lowness , due to the inclusion of liquid or air cavities in the crystal particles .
This was fully discussed and proved in a former memoir .
* When an immersion method result for any 'Journ .
Chem. Soc 1905 , vol. 87 , p. 1186 .
1907 .
] The of Thallivm to the Alkali Illetals .
particular salt was available for comparison with that derived by use of the pyknometer , the highest value afforded by the latter was always found to correspond with the value iven by the immersion method .
Molecular Topic Axes.\mdash ; These were calculated on the assumption of the same pseudohexagonal structure as as been shown to apply to the whole of the salts of the alkali sulphate and selenate series , which is obviously , owing to the similarity of the angles , equally applicable to thallium sulphate .
They are as follows:\mdash ; Optics .
Optical Character.\mdash ; The directions of the axes of the optical indicatrix are as follows :Axis is , axis is , and axis is The first median line is the axis , and the second median line the axis so that the plane of the optic axes is the brachypinakoid These optical characters agree with those given by von , after converting his raphic axes into those of the author now generally adopted .
The sign of the double refraction is positive .
Indices.\mdash ; Two prisms were eventua ] obtained which afforded and , and and respectively , by the most careful grinding on the author 's invaluable orientated-surfarino ooniometer , after very numerous failures owing to the minute size of the crystals , and their extreme brittleness .
The two faces of each prism were symmetrical to an axial plane of the optical ellipsoid and its was parallel to an axis of the latter .
The usual method of the finely ground lass 1 with " " brick\ldquo ; oil proved curiously unsuitable , the ground surfaces being afterwards found to be opaque , owing to some exceptional surface action , connected doubtless with the brittleness .
But if instead of moistening the lap with oil it were breathed on a few times so as to deposit a close sprinking of minute drops of water on it , the opacity was not produced , the grinding occurred quickly and steadily , and on finishing with the lap of smooth glass similarly breathed on , an excellent polish was obtained on the miniature facet thus prepared , and a perfect image of the signal slit was afforded by each such surface prepared .
The spectra were clearly seen the minute prisms eventually so obtained , and the refractive indices determined with their aid are given in the next .
The angle of each of the pl.isms was in the hbourhood of , as a of first did not permit the refracted rays to emerge , owing to the exceptionally refraction and the occurrence of total internal reflection .
* Memoir just cited , p. 1184 .
358 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , The results for with the two prisms were identical to one unit in the fourth decimal place , so that the indices given in the table are absolutely trustworthy .
The values , moreover , were confirmed by furt , her measurements with three natural prisms , formed in two cases by an excellent face of and a narkower , but specially brilliant face of , and in the third case by a and a face .
Such a prism yields two values , one of which is , as the direction of the prism edge , parallel to which one set of vibrations occurs , is that of the axis .
This is the first time that the refractive indices of thalliunll sulphate have been determined , a fact quite comprehensible in the light of the facts above given , and it will be seen that the refractive power is extraordinarily high .
Refractive Indices of index for Na mean The intermediate index is expressed accurately for any wave-length as far as that of the green thallium line in the spectrum , and approximately from thence onwards towards the blue , by the following formula:\mdash ; The indices are also aflorded by the formula if the constant is diminished by , and the dices if it is increased by Axial of the Optical Ellipsoid.\mdash ; These constants work out as under:\mdash ; Axes of indicatrix Axes of optical velocity ellipsoid : Ir : } JTolecular Optical Constants.\mdash ; These constants are as follows:\mdash ; Crystallographic axis Specific refraction ( Lorenz ) for ray Molecular refraction ( Lorenz ) -for ray C 3327 Molecular refraction ( Gladstone ) for ray Mean molecular refraction ( Gladstone ) for all three axes , 1907 .
] The of Thaltium to thoe Alkali Optic Axial Angle.\mdash ; After many fruitless attempts two section-plates were eventually obtained perpendicular to the first and second median lines respectively , by grinding , and polishing on a smooth lass lap moistened by breathing on it , as described for the preparation of the prisms .
Through the one perpendicular to the first median line , this plate being a section across the ated prism , the optic axes were invisible in air ; they were well out of the field of view , portions of being alone visible symmetrically to the centre , on the right and left margins of the field .
In bromnaphthalene , however , the axes were clearly visible , and the following values for the apparent optic axial angle , , were obtained for three wave-lengths , which alone gave brushes sufficiently well illuminated for measurement , owing to the small amount of light which so minute a section-plate permits to pass .
Apparent Optic Axial Angte , , in Br-naphthalene .
For light , , Na , , 7743 Tl , , : The section perpendicular to the second median line was formed by a particularly good natural face , as usual the elongated narrow side of a prism , and by a second face ground and polished by the moist lap , parallel to it .
No trace of the optic figure was visible in air ; and in bromnaphthalene , although rings were visible symmetrical to the centre , the axes remained outside the field on each side when the section was rotated to the extreme limits .
This is owing to the fact that the refractive index of the crystal mean is considerably higher than that of the immersion liquid for Na .
The usual method of determining the true optic axial angle , , by measurements of ( the apparent acute angle in thalene ) and ( the apparent obtuse angle in the same liquid ) , and calculation by the formula Ho , thus fails in this case .
It was determined , however , from the data afforded by the measured values of , the intermediate refractive index , and the refractive index of brommaphthalene ( which was determined for the actual immersion liquid employed ) , the calculation being made with the aid of the formula:\mdash ; sin The refractive indices of the specimen of bromnaphthalene used , supplied by Merck , were found to be as follows , by use of a small hollow prism of glass , with truly plane sides .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , active lndices of Bromnaphthalene .
Li , ; Na , ; Tl , The values of the true optic axial angle , , obtained in this manner , are as follows:\mdash ; True Optic Angle of For light Na , , 684 Tl , , 680 The true angle between the optic axes is thus 8 ' greater for red light than it is for green thallium light .
Seienate , Preparation and Analysis.\mdash ; A quantity of specially pure carbonate of thallium , supplied by Merck , was employed as the basal material .
It was dissolved in small amounts at a time in a considerable volume of water , adequate at the boiling temperature to completely effect solution , and then treated with a slight excess of pure selenic acid , also furnished by Merck .
On account of the difficult solubility the solution requires to be kept very dilute ; the selenate is , in fact , somewhat less soluble ( 2 grammes in 100 grammes of water at ordinary temperature ) than the carbonate of thallium ( four parts in 100 of water ) .
On cooling , the hot solution deposited the needle-shaped crystals already described in the introduction , and these were several times redissolved and recrystallised from distilled water , in the manner also described , so as to obtain crystals suitable for measurement .
An analysis of a specimen of the crystals , by conversion into the insoluble iodide , , as in the case of thallium sulphate , gave the following results:\mdash ; grammes thallium selenate yielded grammes of , which corresponded to per cent. of thallium .
The theoretical percentage is 74.04 .
Solubility.\mdash ; Two determinations were carried out for the ordinary and the boiling temperatures .
It was found that : 100 grammes of water at dissolve grammes of thallium selenate .
, Thallium sclenate thus proves to be less soluble than the sulphate , a fact which accounts for the smaller size of the crystals , and their greater tendency to be deposited in minute needles .
1907 .
] The Relation of Thallium to the Alkali Metals .
Goniometry .
Crystal System.\mdash ; Orthorhombic , holohedral class .
Habit.\mdash ; Acicular to elongated prismatic .
The faces in the p.rism zone were more equally developed than in the sulphate , and only occasionally were the long prisms tabular , and then the flat plane was parallel to either or Ratio of Axes .
observed.\mdash ; a C'rystal Angles.\mdash ; The results of the measurements with eleven crvstals selected from five different crops , and of the calculations , are given in the accompanying table .
The best developed of the crystals measured is illustrated in , and is typical of the prisms obtained by the cooling during a night of solutions containing only slightly more thallium selenate than corresponds to saturation at the ordinary temperature .
The prism zone comprises faces more 01 less equally developed of the brachypinakoid , the two brachyprisms and , and the basal pinakoid The ends are sharpened by the faces of the primary pyramid and frequently no other end faces at all were observed .
Alternate pairs of the faces were often developed at the two ends , to the crystal a hemimorphic appearance .
The crystals , however , belong to the holohedral class of the rhombic system , Class 8 , and not to either of the two classes , 6 or 7 , of lower rhombie symmetry .
The other pair of faces at each end are always present , and the curious habit is generally accompanied by a tabular development parallel to An excellent small face of the orthopinakoid was present on crystal shown in the drawing , as well as two faces of the nary prism , and two narrower faces of the prism The faces of the crystals were very brilliant , and the lustre adamantine , as in the case of the sulphate .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , Morphological Angles of Thallium Selenate .
Angle . .
Total number of 1 measurements measure- Limits .
Diff. 1907 .
] The Relation of to the Alkali \mdash ; The directions of selenate appear to be identical with those of the sulphate , namely , the brachypinakoid and the basal pinakoid , although great difficulty was experienced in obtaining satisfactory cleavages , owing to the still smaller size of the selenate crystals .
Rdative \mdash ; Four specific gravity determinations by the pyknometer method gave the following results .
The Retgers immersion method is here impossible of application on account of the very high specific avity : Specific ravity at Somewhat over 9 grammes weight of the powdered crystals were employed in each determination .
The highest of the values was accepted as the true density , for reasons given in discussing the sulphate , namely , 6.875 .
Topic Axes.\mdash ; These are as follows , calculated for a pseudo-hexagonal structure:\mdash ; Optics .
Optical Character.\mdash ; The- disposition of the axes of the optical ellipsoid indicatrix ) is not the same as in the case of the sulphate , but as follows:\mdash ; The axis is parallel to the crystallographic axis , , \ldquo ; The acute bisectrix of the optic axial angle is the crystallographic axis and the obtuse bisectrix is the axis .
Hence the plane of the optic axes is the basal plane The double refraction is also different , negative .
Refractive Indices.\mdash ; Two complementary prisms ( a prism not permitting the whole spectrum to emerge ) were eventually , after many failures with such minute crystals , ground symmetrically to an axial plane of the ellipsoid , and with the edge in each case parallel to an axis of the same ; and they were polished in the same manner as those of the sulphate .
of them afforded directly and , and the other and two series of values obtained for from the two prisms were identical , and the following table represents the results for all three indices .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Refractive Indices of Thallium Selenate .
Mean refractive index for Na light mean The intermediate refractive index is afforded for any wave-length by the following formula , as far as the green thallium line in the spectrum , and approximately for wave-lengths beyond towards the blue : The indices are also afforded by the formula if the constant is diminished by , and the values if it is increased by The negative character of the double refraction is indicated by the closer approximation of the values to the values than to the values .
Axial Batios of the Optical soid.\mdash ; Axes of indicatrix Axes of optical velocity ellipsoid : : Molecular Optical Constants.\mdash ; Crystallographic axis Specific refraction ( Lorenz ) for ray Molecular refraction ( Lorenz ) for ray C Molecular refraction ( Gladstone ) for ray Mean molecular refraction , mean of all three values of ) Optic Angle.\mdash ; A few rings of the optic axial interference figure in convergent polarised were visible in air , at the margin.of the field on each side , a particularly clear and adequately thick tabular crystal eventually obtained parallel to the brachypinakoid which is perpendicular to the first median line , but the themselves were out of the field on each side .
On immersing it in a cell of bronmaphthalene 1907 .
] The Relation of Thatlium to the the optic axes surrounded by their rings and lemniscates were clearly seen , and the following measurements obtained for Na 88 The negative character of the double refraction was confirmed by means of the quarter undulation plate and quartz wedge .
An excellent plate was then ground and polished successfully , after several attempts , perpendicular to the second median line , the axis .
It showed the.optic figure well , symmetrical to the centre , but the optic axes were outside the field , even when immersed in bromnaphthalene or methylene iodide .
For , owing to the refractive indices being so , higher than those of the immersion liquids , the angle iu either would be considerably than the true obtuse angle within the crystal , and as this is , the would probably be too to .
Such , indeed , appears to be the case .
Hence the true angle was found from the measured values of in bromnaphthalene , combined with the specially determined refractive indices of that liquid for the same ] engths , and the refractive indices of the crystal already determined , employin the folnlula Va The values thus obtained for were as under:\mdash ; True Optic Axial of Thatlium Selenate .
For light , , Na , , 72 58 of Results .
comparison of the degrees of solubility in water of the ten salts of the series now fully investigated is afforded by the following table , which represents the number of grammes of the respective salts which are dissolved by 100 grammes of water at Solubilit ?
/ in Water at 10.0 74.0 4.3 10.0 42 .
10.0 42 .
10.0 42 .
10.0 42 .
10.0 42 .
115.0 159.0 l22 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , It is thus obvious that the thallium salts are the least soluble of the series , and , moreover , that the general rule , according to which the selenate is more soluble than the sulphate , is not followed in the case of the selenate of thallium , indicating some intrinsic difl'erence between thallium on the one hand and the alkali metals proper and ammonium on the other .
Goniometrical Morphology.\mdash ; The interfacial angles now given for thallium sulphate and selenate are set forth in comparative form in the accompanying table , side by side with those in the author 's former memoirs for the sulphates and selenates of potassium , rubidium , and caesium , and for ammonium sulphate .
Ammonium selenate , the last salt described by.the autho not comparable on account of its crystallising differently , in the monoclinic instead of the rhombic system .
It is at once apparent that although the are precisely analogous and sufficiently close to warrant the inclusion of thallium sulphate and selenate in the same " " isomorphous\ldquo ; series , giving the term " " isomorphism\ldquo ; the broad signification now assigned to it by the author so as to admit such relatively minute changes of angle as have been shown to accompany , in accordance with a regular law , the replacement of one metal of the same family group by another , \mdash ; yet that the ular changes introduced by the replacement of potassium by thallium in the sulphate and selenate are considerably greater than those brought about by the replacement of potassium by either rubidium , caesium , or ( in the case of the sulphate ) ammonium .
The mosl concise method of exhibiting the relative magnitudes of the angular changes in the different cases is by means of a table giving the average change in each instance , that is , the arithmetical mean of all the angular differences between the potassium salt , considered as the first member of the series , and the salt in question , or between any other two salts , ignoring , that is whether the angle has increased or diminished .
Such table is appended after the table of , and gives also the maximum change in each case .
'Journ .
Chem. Soc 1906 , vol. 89 , .
1069 .
1907 .
The Relation of Thallium to the Metats .
367 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , Average aml Maximum Angular Changes .
It will be clear from this very instructive table that the average and maximum changes are both one and a-half times as much when thallium replaces potassium as when caesium replaces potassium in either sulphate or selenate , and three times as much in the sulphate series , or two and -half times in the selenate series , as when rubidium replaces potassium .
They are also twice as much when thallium replaces potassium in the sulphate as when ammonium replaces potassium .
In short , the introduced by the introduction of thallium are nearly twice as great as the maximum introduced by interchanges of the true alkali metals among themselves in the salts of the series .
The actual average amounts of angular change for the replacement of potassium by caesium and by thallium respectively are 16 ' and 26 ' in the sulphate group , and 17 ' and 27 ' in the selenate group .
The atomic weights of caesium and thallium being and respectively , if we calculate what change a metal of atomic weight should produce when a metal of atomic weight produces 16 ' or 17 ' , we find to be and 26 ' respectively , only 1 ' from the observed amounts of change on the introduction thallium into potassium sulphate or selenate instead of potassium .
The average amount of angular produced by the introduction of thallium is thus proportional to its atomic , but it is important to note that the directions of the individual thus averaged are irregular , that is , their signs are not always the same as those of the regular progressive changes of similar } which accompany the replacement of potassium by rubidium or caesium .
It is this fact which causes the for the introduction The of Thallium to the Alkali Metals .
of thallium into either a potassium , a rubidium , or a caesium salt to be about equal .
The difference of between the sulphate and the selenate of thallium is relatively very small , as is also the case with lespect to salts of the two acids , respectively , potassium , rubidium , or caesium .
The average of occurring when the sulphur in thallium sulphate is replaced by selenium is 11 ' , and the maximum change is 30 ' .
There appears , on the whole , to be most resemblance between the thallium and ammonium salt in the case of the sulphates , the only salts comparable , as will be seen from the fact that the average for the replacement of ammonium by thallium is only 14 ' , while for the replacement of either potassium , rubidium , or caesium by thallium it is about twice as much .
In certain zones , however , there was also a close similarity of angle between the thallium and the rubidium salts of both acids , but the differences in other zones brought the average up to that given in the table .
In this connection it is of interest to recall a statement of Muthmann in the year at the time that the author was in the midst of the work on the sulphates of the alkalies proper , a fact of which Dr. Muthmann was aware : Wenn Herr Tutton das Rubidiumsulfat mit dem Thalliumsulfat vergleichen wird , so wird hochstwahrscheinlich eine ausserordentliche Winkelahnlichkeit de ] ' beiden Korper statiren konnen , die ihre Erklarung findet in dem Unterschied der Volumina , mit denen die Atom beider Element in die bindung eintreten While this turns out not to be strictly the case , except in so far that the whole of the differences under consideration are extremely small , and that the sulphate of thallium is more like the ammonium salt as regards the nitudes of its angles , still it will be presently that all three salts , the sulphates of ammonium , rubidium , and thallium , as well as the selenates of the two latter , are almost identical as regards their structural dimensions in space , which are dependent on certain fundamental , which determine the axial ratios , as well as on the molecular volume .
It cannot be too clearly pointed out , however , that only in the cases of the replacement of potassium by rubidium and by caesium do the changes of occur in the direction , according to a regular law of progression , namely .
that law which is undoubtedly the main result of the author 's work on the series , that the changes are a function of the atomic weight of the strictly cmalogous metal .
It is only the three homologous nlembers of the same exclusive family group , potassium , rubidium , and caesium , which obey this interesting law , the angular changes when ammonium and thallium are the replacing bases occurring irregularly , in both directions .
'Zeitschr .
fur Kryst vol. 22 , p. 647 .
VOL. LXXIX.\mdash ; A. 2 Dr. A. .
H. Tutton .
: Constants.\mdash ; In the next table are compared the densities , molecular , crystallographic ' axial ratios , and topic axial ratios of the two thallium salts with those of the other salts of the series .
The topic axial ratios are obtained by the combination of the crystallographic axial ratios with the molecular volume , the formulae representing the values of , and having been repeatedly iven in author 's memoirs .
* Comp rative Vnlues of nstants .
* The topic axes of monoclinic ammonium selenate were calculated on the assumption of a similar pseudo-hexagonal structure to that of the nine rhombic salts .
Such a structure is .
strikingly evident as regards the prism zone , the angles of the prism faces being and , the prism zone thus resembling the well-known pseudo-hexagonal prism zone of the rhombic salts to a remarkable degree , considering the cIlange of system .
* The topic axes of monoclinic ammonium selenate were calculated on the assumption of a similar pseudo-hexagonal structure to that of the nine rhombic salts .
Such a structure is .
strikingly evident as regards the prism zone , the ngles of the prism faces being and , the prism zone thus resembling the pseudo-hexagonal zone of the rhombic salts to a remarkable degrec , considering the cIlange of system .
* The topic axes of monoclinic ammonium selenate were calculated on the assumption of a similar pseudo-hexagonal structure to that of the nine rhombic salts .
Such a structure is .
strikingly evident as regards the prism zone , the ngles of the prism faces being and , the prism zone thus resembling the pseudo-hexagonal zone of the rhombic salts to a remarkable degrec , considering the cIlange of system .
* The topic axes of monoclinic ammonium selenate were calculated on the assumption of a similar pseudo-hexagonal structure to that of the nine rhombic salts .
Such a structure is .
strikingly evident as regards the prism zone , the ngles of the prism faces being and , the prism zone thus resembling the pseudo-hexagonal zone of the rhombic salts to a remarkable degrec , considering the cIlange of system .
* The topic axes of monoclinic ammonium selenate were calculated on the assumption of a similar pseudo-hexagonal structure to that of the nine rhombic salts .
Such a structure is .
strikingly evident as regards the prism zone , the ngles of the prism faces being and , the prism zone thus resembling the pseudo-hexagonal zone of the rhombic salts to a remarkable degrec , considering the cIlange of system .
* The topic axes of monoclinic ammonium selenate were calculated on the assumption of a similar pseudo-hexagonal structure to that of the nine rhombic salts .
Such a structure is .
strikingly evident as regards the prism zone , the ngles of the prism faces being and , the prism zone thus resembling the pseudo-hexagonal zone of the rhombic salts to a remarkable degrec , considering the cIlange of system .
* The topic axes of monoclinic ammonium selenate were calculated on the assumption of a similar pseudo-hexagonal structure to that of the nine rhombic salts .
Such a structure is .
strikingly evident as regards the prism zone , the ngles of the prism faces being and , the prism zone thus resembling the pseudo-hexagonal zone of the rhombic salts to a remarkable degrec , considering the cIlange of system .
A study of the above table reveals the following The axial ratios of the two thallium salts are somewhat lower than those of the potassium , rubidium , and caesium salts , but still extraordinarily close to them , considering the chemical difference of thallium from the three alkali metals proper , belonging , as it does , to a different family grouI ) of the periodic system .
Moreover , in the only case in which a comparison with an ammonium salt can be made , thnt of the sulphate series , the ratios of the thallium salt approximate still more closely to those of the ammonium salt .
It may , therefore , with certainty be said , as regards the ratios of the axes of the thallium salts , as was said equally truly of the interfacial angles , that they are such as fully justify us in including thallium sulphate and selenate in the same isomorphous orthorhombic series as the sulphates and selenates of potassium , rubidium and caesium and the sulphate of ammonium , employing the term isomorphous in the sense which has been .
defined on p. 366 .
But the most striking fact indicated by the table is that the volumes .
' Journ. .
Soc 1905 , vol. p. 1186 .
1907 .
] The Relc tion of to the Alkali Metats .
and topic ratios of the thallium salts almost identical with those of the rubidium salts , and also with those of the ammonium salts ( completely as regards the sulphate , and in the case of ammonium selenate as far as that monoclinic salt is comparable ) .
It would thus appear that structurally thallium takes a place in the series not ffi removed from rubidium , as has also been shown to be the case with ammonium .
This fact is of rnificance in two senses .
Firstly , it demonstrates that the law of ression of the crystal properties , , optical , thermal , and physical in general , ' to the atomic weights of the interchangeable elements , such as has been to operate in the cases of the potassium , rubidium , and caesium sulphates and selenates , only applies to strictly homologous isomorphous salts , such as those of the three metals just mentioned , whose eable elements belong to same exclusive yroup of the periodic classification .
For the thallium salts ought to exhibit higher molecular volumes and topic axes than the caesium salts , the atomic of thalliun so much Secondly , the rigid law of progression being no operative , as thalliunr does not belong to the family roup of the alkalies proper , but is a sort of hybrid , having relations both with the alkalies and with the lead group , the produced shown to be of a less regular character , and just as the interfacial angular differences occurred on both sides of the regular older of change for family analogues , within limits consistent with the definition of an isomorphous series , the structural dimensions do not show auy relation to the atomic of the metal , but are only of necessity such as bring the crystal within the scope of isomorphism , and as a matter of fact they fall about midway in the series , as do those of ammonium s. It is scarcely conceivable , however , that the and a-half times heavier atom of thallium can be introduced without occupying more space than did the lighter atom of rubidium , and the fact no appreciable difference is apparent in the structural dimensions would appear to confirm the author 's conclusion arding the still more remarkable case of the introduction of the five atoms of the group , instead of each atom of rubidium , namely , that the packing of the material part of the atoms or of their spheres of infltlence is not an absolutely close one , as is assumed in the conception of Pope and Barlow , shortly to be to , but that there are intermolecular and interatomic interspaces affording room for such insertions of additional matter .
A possible alternative to the latter supposition is to conclude that the thallium and ammonium salts are not truly isomorphous with those of potassium , Vide last paragraph of this memoir .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , rubidium , and caesium , and therefore that the molecular volumes and topic axes are not strictly comparable .
This view , however , is strongly opposed to the evidence of the great bulk of the author 's now accumulated facts , and is conclusively negatived by the and important results of the researches of Barker , the regu arowth of soluble salts on each other .
Barker has shown that the perchlorates , like the ates iated in 1894 by Muthmann , of rubidium , ammonium , and thallium , possess almost identical molecular volumes and topic axes , just like the analogous sulphates and selenates , and that only such substances as possess similar molecular volumes and topic axes exhibit the property of forming parallel growths .
A beautiful and interesting case is that of the parallel growths of sodium nitrate which readily form on calcite , two substances possessing similar rhombohedral crystalline forms , molecular volumes , and topic axial ratios .
It is difficult to see how the production of such parallel growths can be favoured by the similarity of these constants , if the latter are not strictly comparable , for it is precisely their very compatibility , congruency ( near equality of the absolute lengths ) as ards topic axial ratios , and therefore strict comparability , which induces the growth of one on the other .
The author has shown , moreover , that rubidium and ammonium selenates crystallise together in and very perfect rhombic crystals , and that these mixed crystals may contain more than 60 per cent. of the latter salt , although the common form of dimorphous ammonium selenate is monoclinic .
The fact is due to the nearness to identity of the structural dimensions of rubidium and ammonium salts , as indicated by the closeness of the molecular volumes and topic axial ratios , for instance , those of rhombic ammonium and rubidium sulphates .
If rhombic crystals could be isolated of pure ammonium selenate , it is probable that their molecular volumes and topic axial ratios would be even closer to those of rubidium selenate than are the values for the monoclinic variety given in the table .
Great difference of these constants is undoubtedly unfavourable to the formation of mixed crystals , while close approximation is highly favourable .
WulffS has shown that of the three salts , and the first and third do not form mixed crystals , the difference of molecular volume being ammonium and potassium sulphates , which only differ by , and ammonium and caesium sulphates , which differ by do , although the mixed crystals are not often transparent , the difference of .
Mag 1907 , vol. 14 , p. 235 ; and ' Journ. Chem. Soc 1906 , vol. 89 , p. 1120 . .
cit. 'Journ .
Chem. Soc 1906 , vol. 89 , p. 1062 .
S 'Zeitschr .
fiir Kryst 1906 , vol. 42 , p. 558 .
1907 .
] The Relation of Thallium to the volume being still considerable .
On the other hand , he obtained , with the greatest , large and beautifully transparent homogeneous mixed clystals of ammonium and rubidium sulphates , whose volumes only diffel by Gossner*shows , still more recently , that mixed clystals are probably homogeneous structures , and not mere nlechanical mixtures , a result which had also been indicated by the optical measurements of Wulff , and that : it may now be accepted as a well-proved fact that only those members of isomorphous series form mixed crystals whose molecular volumes are fairly close together ; and he explains it on the assumption that the force of crystallisation about actual equalisation of the molecular volumes , one constituent co1ltracting and the othel expanding in the act of crystallising together , the anount of such of volume only of the same order as that actually observed by the ( Tutton ) to occur in the thel.nal expansion of the sulphates of potassium , rubidium , and .
Whether this be the true explanation , or whether it is merely a question of mecbanical congruency of structural dimensions ( the topic axial ratios ) within certain limits , which must obviously be narrow , it is absolutely certain that closeness of molecular volume and congruency of topic axes are the conditions for the ready formation of mixed crystals , just as they also are for the production of parallel growths .
All these facts , obtained by four independent observers , unite in that the molecular volumes and topic axial ratios of , ammonitun , and thallium salts are strictly comparable , and , therefore , that the spacial dimensions of their structural units , the molecular unit-parallelopipeda of the space-lattices , are alnost identical .
It was in connection with Muthmann 's 1894 researchef ; already alluded to , on structural dimensions , including those of the permanganates of the alkalies , that he ested for them the term " " topic axial ratios from Oo , " " space Such an expression of the structural dimensions of crystals was already being independently employed by author at that time under the nalne of " " distance ratios the formulae expressing them being identical .
A melnoir embodying the author 's results was published in the same year ( 1894 ) , so that in this case , as with so lnany new ideas which prove to be a distinct step forward , the credit is due to two independent workers .
Moreover , the idea really originated with Professor Beck , of ; but Professor Muthmann and the author simultaneously applied the idea and showed its practical ; utility .
For the sake of uniformity , the author adopted Muthmann 's term , .
although the ratios .
of the centres Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , of gravity of tYuous structural units ( in all cases investigated by the author these are the chemical molecules ) in the directions of the crystallographic axes , rather than the axial dimensions of the molecule .
For we do not yet know the relations of the free space and the actual matter in the unit cell , or elementary parallelopipedon of the space-lattice , corresponding to each molecule .
This question of the genesis of ' ' topic axial ratios\ldquo ; is of some moment , for their employment to exhibit the structural relationships of the intimately related members of isomorphous series , with respect to which related substances they are all-sufficient for the purpose , has proved so instructive that the idea has been carried further by Pope and Barlow*in an attempt to connect the structure of dissimilar substances .
The essence of their conception , as the author understands it , is that the chemical molecule may be considered as made up of a number of spheres corresponding to and the spheres of influence of the atoms composing it ; that the volume of each sphere is roughly proportional to the valency of the atom which it esents ; and that the sum of the valencies of the atoms present in the molecule may be substituted for the molecular volume , and is termed by them the " " valency volume By using the valency volume instead of the molecular volurne in the author 's formulae for calculating the topic axial ratios , they arrive at new ratios , which they term " " equivalence parameters By the use of these they have accounted for the crystalline structure of a number of substances connected morphotropically , and others still less intimately connected .
The author hopes to see further developments of these interesting speculations , but , meanwhile , a word must be said as to a very misleading statement in the paper by Pope and Barlow , which reads ( p. 1680):\mdash ; " " The topic axial ratios have no signification which assists in the detection of relationships between crystalline form and molecular constitution , and it is for this reason that their study has hitherto afforded no information on the subject which could not have been equally well derived from the consideration of the ordinary axial ratios It has been abundantly proved in the author 's previous memoirs , and will be particularly clear from the present one , that within an isomorphous series , such as that now under consideration and the monoclinic series of double salts dealt with in former papers , the teaching of topic axial ratios is of paramount importance as regards the structural relationships of the various members of the series , and has assisted materially in the discovery of the law of progression according to atomic weight in the case of the more strictly eutropic members of such series , by showing that such a law is valid for the structural relationships , the law is indepen'Journ .
Chem. Soc 1906 , p. 1675 .
1907 .
] The of Thallium to the Alkali fetals .
S75 dently proved by the relationships with respect to every other property .
The ratios of the axes do not show these relationslups , as the author has frequently pointed out .
Neither are the crystallographic axial ratios of any use as indicative of the possibility or otherwise of the formation of mixed crystals or parallel rowths , whereas the great importance of topic axial ratios in this respect has been clearly shown .
Moreover , the equivalence parameters of Pope and Barlow , although they may , and the author hopes they will , prove of great value in the connection of dissimilar substances , do not make clear the relationships in an isomorphous serJes , for they are , from their very nature , almost identical for all the members of an isomorphous series .
Further , topic axial ratios depend on a constant determinable with great accuracy , the molecular volume ; it is the quotient of the two most accurately determined of all constants , the molecular weight ( sum of the atomic .and the specific whereas , at the best , the valency volume is only a ; rough approximation , although it may prove none the less useful when used for its legitimate purpose .
Iopic axes were designed by the author solely for use in isomorphous series , where we could be reasonably sure that the structure , whatever it was , was similar for all the members of the series .
Whilst the molecular volume represents the total relative change of volume on passing from one member to another , the topic axial ratios give the directional changes in the separation of the structural units , the chemical molecules , in the three directions of space .
The structural unit might even be the complex physical molecule , which Wyrouboff , in his , still insists o although the author has clearly in the paper on " " The Nature of the Structural Unit \ldquo ; that in the isomorphous series in question the simple chemical molecule itself is the structural unit ( a fact which M. Wyrouboff appears to have overlooked ) .
The possibility of a unit would not diminish in the slightest deglee the value of the teaching of topic axial ratios , for the unit would be the same for all the members of the series , and the relationships would hold equally well , teyer it might be .
Enough will have been said to prove that topic atios are undoubtedly the most suitable constants for Comp n the structural dimensions of the nuembers of isomorphous series , and if the equivalence parameters of Pope , and Barlow prove as useful in regard to the structural relationships of less intimately connected substances , great progress will have been made .
\mdash ; Thallium sulphate and selenate both cleave perfectly parallel to the brachypinakoid , and somewhat less perfectly parallel to the ' Bull .
Soc. 1906 , vol. 29 , pp. 335 and ' Journ. Cheul .
Soc 1896 , vol. 69 .
p. 507 .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , basal pinakoid .
These cleavage directions , as well as the relative degrees of facility of cleavage along them , are identical with those developed by the sulphates and selenates of potassium , rubidium , and caesium .
Ammonium sulphate shows the second cleavage as a perfect one , but none in the direction of the brachypinakoid .
Optical Characters.\mdash ; A very remarkable fact as regards the optics of this series is the diversity of optical character developed .
The potassium and caesium salts have opposite characters , and the rubidium salts fall somewhere intermediate in optical character , the progression in the dimensions of the optical ellipsoid according to the atomic weight of the alkali metal having , in fact , been shown to be the cause of the diversity .
Still more permutations of optical character are introduced with the of ammonium and thallium , but no regular law governing them is now apparent .
Thallium and ammonium both resemble the rubidium salt in the case of the sulphate series , but thallium selenate resembles caesium Selenate instead .
A general survey of the optical characters is taken in the next table , which will render these facts clearer .
Table of Optical Charact fraictive Indices.\mdash ; These are compared for all the nine salts of the Series in the next table .
1907 .
] The Relation of Thalliurn to the Alkali Metals .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May 3 , The most striking fact of all , however , with respect to the optical properties will at once be apparent from this table of refractive indices , namely , the very exceptionally high refraction of the thallium salts , as compared with the potassium , rubidium , caesium and ammonium salts .
The mean refractive index mean three indices light ) of each of the 10 salts is given in the next table , which not only affords a concise expression of the comparative refraction , but tely includes also the selenate of , ammonium , as the directional differences due to the different system in which that salt crystallises are here eliminated .
Mean Indices .
The extraordinary difference ( increase ) of refractive power exhibited by the two salts as compared with the other eight salts will be clearly apparent from this last table .
It appears to indicate that optically the thallium salts are essentially diffel'ent to all the other salts of the series .
It has been shown , as regards the morphological constants , the molecular volume and the topic axial ratios , that both the thallium salts and ammonium sulphate behave very much like the corresponding rubidium salts ; and that optically , both as regards the refractive indices and the molecular optical constants , ammonium sulphate also resembles rubidium sulphate .
But here , in the case of thallium , while the morphological constants are like those of the analogous rubidium salts , the optical constants soar far away , so that we are compelled to conclude that there is some fundamental difference , probably connected with the different nature of the thallium atoms .
Before , however , this discussion is carried further , it will be particularly interesting to see whether this marked difference is also exhibited by the molecular optical constants , or whether it is only a phenomenon of the refractive index itself .
In the following table , therefore , will be found set out the values of the molecular refraction for all 10 salts , calculated both by the formulae of Lorenz , and of Gladstone and Dale .
In the case of monoclinic mmonium selenate only the strictly compal.able directions are represented in the table .
In the last column is given the mean molecular refraction , that is , the mean of all three values corresponding to the three axial directions of each salt , calculated by Gladstone 's formula , and this affords the best comparison of all .
i1907 .
] The of to the Ref ) for Ray From this table it will be clear that the molecular refractions of sulphate and selenate stand out high above those of the other salts , just as do refractive indices .
So that in the case of the thallium salts , unlike that of the ammonium salts , the optical constants do not follow the morphological constants in a position for thallium near to rubidium in the series .
It may be interesting , in conclusion , to compare the axial dimensions of the optical ellipsoid itself , either the indicatrix or its polar reciprocal , the optical velocity ellipsoid , for the 10 salts of the series .
They are given below , and all relate to the value of the axis of the analogous potassium salt , which is taken as unity .
Ratios of opticat Velocity ozds .
The same fact is here plainly evident , that the thallium salts are optically exceptional .
The optical ellipsoid of each of them lies at a con..siderable distance inside of the analogous caesium salt , such distance being far greater than that of the outermost enveloping ] ipsoid of the series , that of the potassium salt , thus indicating a far lower velocity of vibration in light transmitted through the crystals of the thallium salts , apparently to the much greater influence of the thallium atoms .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
[ May Snmmary of Condusions .
It is shown in this communication that the crystals of the sulphate and selenate of thallium resemble those of the sulphates and selenates of potassium , rubidium , and caesium , and of the sulphate of ammonium adequately closely ically to enable them to be classed in the same .
orthorhombic isomorphous series , the average difference of the corresponding interfacial angles on analogous potassium and ] salts being less than half a degree , and the maximum difference of angle only just exceeding a degree .
Ihese differences , however , small as they are , amount to nearly twice as much as those between analogous potassium and caesium salts , and to nearly three times as much as when rubidium replaces potassium .
The ratios of the crystallographic axes are also near enough to the ratios for the other salts to warrant the inclusion of the tballium salts in the series , but .
again the difference , though small , is greater than between any other of the salts .
The greater average changes which are observed in the angles , irrespective of their direction , when thallium replaces potassium than when any other of the alkali metals is introduced , are proportional to the atomic weight of thallium as compared with that of the other three metals .
But the changes occur irregularly as ards theil ' direction , being sometimes in the same direction and sometimes in the opposite direction to what is observed on replacing potassium by rubidium and caesium .
The law which the author 's former work has revealed , that the changes in the interfacial are progressive functions of the atomic weights of the interchanged metals , only applies consequently to potassium , rubidium , and caesium , which belong strictly to the same family group of the periodic classification of the elements .
The essentially different nature of thnllium , related as it is to both the alkali metals and the lead group , is here ayed , just as was that of ammonium , whose sulphate also exhibited changes of irregular in direction .
Indeed , the sulphate of thallium most closely resembles that of ammonium in regard to the magnitude of its angles .
The molecular volumes and topic axial ratios ( distances apart of the centres .
of gravity of contiguous structural units , the chemical molecules , in the directions of space corresponding to the crystal axes ) , the latter calculated in accordance with the marked pseudo-hexagonal character of the crystals , of thallium sulphate and selenate are almost identical with those of rubidium sulphateand selenate respectively .
Ammonium sulphate has also been shown to possess a molecular volume and topic axial ratios almost identical with those of rubidium sulphate , so that rubidium , thallium , and ammo1lium are ver 1907 .
] The Relation of to the Mefals .
closel allied in respect to the structural of their sulphates , and the same applies equally to the selenates of the two metals and to ammonium , selenate also if the of its topic axial ratios is considered , so as to .eliminate the directional difference introduced by the different ( monocliuic ) symmetry of that salt .
Thus the chief morphological result of the investigation is that thallium occupies a place in the alkali series alongside rubidium and ) onium , that is , intermediate between potassium and caesium .
Optieally , the thallium salts exhibit remarkable differences from the potassium , rubidium , caesium , and ammonium salts .
The refractive indices are far higher , the amount by which they are than those of the caesium salts being from to 6 times greater than the amount by which the latter are .
than those of the potassium salts .
The dispersion is also very much higher .
Not only are these specific constants themselves , but the molecular refraction is likewise very much higher , considerably than in proportion to the atomic of thallium .
In case of ammonium sulplJate , it has previously been shown that the 'optical properties follow the morphological , in assigning a place to ammonium near rubidium in the series , so that the ammonium group behayes in this series ver as though it were a true alkali potassium , rubidiunl , or caesium without the structure or the optical character more than when rubidium is interchanged for one of the other two metals .
Thallium , however , ammonium in this respect does not do so optically , and herein shows its individuality and its essential chemical difference from the true alkali metals , potassium , ubidium , and caesium .
The solubility in water of the thallium salts is also very exceptional , and in three senses .
For not cnly is the solubility the lowest in the series , very sparing indeed compared even with the but htly soluble sulphate of , but it is lower for the selenate than for the sulphate , whereas all the other selenates of the series are much more soluble han the sulphates , and also the solubility increases with rise of atomic weight of the metal , except in the case of thallium , whose atomic is the highest , but .solubility lowest .
The results of this ation throw into prominent relief the main generalisation which has sprung from these researches , that in the case of isomorphous series in the strictest sense , where the elements belong to the same family group of the periodic classification of the elements , the of the properties of the crystals , morphological , optical , thermal , physical , in general , are functions of the atomic of these The Relation of Thallium to the .
Metals .
elements .
Where we have an element like thallium , which does not belong to the same family group , the law does not apply , although the metal may be , as thallium is , capable of interchanging with the without altering the crystal-system , and without making angular and structural of much greater magnitude than those provoked by the interchange of family analogues .
For such a series the term " " eutropic from " " \ldquo ; meaning " " a regularly progressive change ( regelmassige derung has been ested by Linck , is adopted by the author .
In the light of this research , the author now defines an " " isomorphous series\ldquo ; as " " one whose members bear some definite chemical analogy and crystallise according to the same system and in the same class of that system , and develop the same forms inclined at angles which only differ by a very few degrees , rarely \ldquo ; ; and an " " eutropic series\ldquo ; as " " one in which these small ular differences , and also the structural and physical properties of the crystals , obey the law of ression a to the atolnic weight of the interchangeable elements which give rise to the series and which belong to the same family group Thallium sulphate and selenate and ammonium sulph.ate belong the orthorhombic isomorphous series , while the sulphates and selenates of potassium , rubiditun , and caesium belong not only to this same isomorphous series but also to the still more exclusive eutropic series within it .
' Zeitschr .
fur Phys. Chem 1896 , vol. 19 , p. 19 maximum difference met with in the rhombic series in question been shown to be only 1o , which occurs between thallium and potassium sulphates in the case of one angle .
The maximum difference yet met with in the monoclinic double sulphate and selenate series is

