II .
" On a New Series of Bodies Homologous to I-Hydrocyanic Acid."II .
ByA .
W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received August 31,1867 .
In a letter submitted to the Royal Society some weeks ago I directed attention to a new series of homologues and analogues of hydrocyanic acid , generated by the action of chloroform on the primary monamines .
As a representative of this group of bodies , I described the cyanide of phenyl , the formation and the properties of which had been almost exclusively the subject of my researches .
I have followed up the study of these new bodies , which have become more and more attractive to me in proportion as I investigated their nature .
Being formed in a well-defined reaction , endowed with properties quite unexpected , stable in certain cases , and of extreme alterability in others , capable of the most varied reactions that can be imagined , these bodies possess all the characters which invite a detailed examination .
Thus I find myself at the threshhold of a long investigation , the results of which I beg permission to submit to the Royal Society in the order in which they present themselves .
Cyanide of Ethyl .
After having fixed in the phenylic group the general characters of the reaction , my attention was very naturally directed to the ethylic series .
For this purpose , it was first necessary to procure ethylamine in rather considerable quantities .
Iappily in this case the liberal cooperation , so often experienced , of my friend Mr. E. C. Nicholson , was again at hand .
Interesting himself with a cordiality , for which I cannot sufficiently thank him , in the continuation of my researches on the ethylic bases , Mr. Nicholson had placed at my disposal the product of the action of ammonia on iodide of ethyl produced in a single operation performed in one of his great autoclaves on 20 kilogs .
of iodide of ethyl .
Thanks to the happy alliance between science and industry , which characterizes our times , I was thus enabled to study the transformation of ethylamine under the influence of chloroform on a rather large scale .
On gradually introducing a mixture of an alcoholic solution of ethylamine and chloroform into a retort containing powdered potassic hydrate , a most powerful reaction takes place ; the mixture enters into ebullition , and a liquid distils over , the penetrating odour of which surpasses anything that it is possible to conceive .
Besides the odoriferous body the product of the distillation contains ethylamine , chloroform , alcohol , and water , and a considerable number of rectifications are required in order to isolate the cyanide of ethyl from this mixture .
As the substance is rather volatile , the frequently repeated fractional distillations become a most painful operation , and more than once , while I have been engaged in these experiments , my laboratory has been almost inaccessible .
Thus with a temperature of 30 ?
I have found it desirable to 14,8 interrupt for the time the preparation in the pure state of the cyanide of ethyl , and to resume it at a more favourable season .
I was nevertheless curious to study , even now , a true homologue of cyanide of ethyl in order to compare its properties with those of cyanide of phenyl .
The boiling-points of the amylic compounds being within convenient limits , I was induced to select the amyl-series as presenting the greatest chance of success .
On submitting amylamine to the action of chloroform , the same phenomena are observed as in the analogous reaction between chloroform and aniline .
One molecule of amylamine and one molecule of chloroform contain the elements of one molecule of cyanide of amyl and three of hydrochloric acid : C H13 N+ CtICI , = C , H-1 N+3 IC1l Amylamine .
Chloroform .
Cyanide of amyl .
The cyanide of amyl is a transparent colourless liquid lighter than water , insoluble in water , but dissolved by alcohol and ether , of an oppressive odour , resembling at the same time that of amylic alcohol and of hydrocyanic acid .
Its vapour possesses , in a still higher degree than that of the cyanide of phenyl , the property of producing on the tongue an insupportably bitter taste , and of giving rise in the throat to the sensation of suffocation , so characteristic of hydrocyanic acid .
The cyanide of amyl may be distilled without decomposition .
It boils at 1370 C. , that is , at a temperature 8 ?
lower than the boiling-point of its isomer , capronitrile .
It will be remembered that the boiling-point of cyanide of phenvl is lower than that of benzonitrile .
Under the influence of alkalies and acids , the cyanide of amyl behaves in the same manner as the phenylic cyanide .
Though only slightly attacked by alkalies , it is decomposed by acids with a violence which is almost explosive ; a short ebullition with water is sufficient to transform it into formic acid and amylamine-C H,1lN +2 1H = CIH,20 , + C5 H13N .
Cyanide of amyl .
Formic acid .
Amylamine .
In order to fix this equation by numbers , I have carried out the reaction by means of dilute sulphuric acid .
The formic acid was then distilled off and transformed into a sodium-salt , and analyzed as formate of silver ; the residue in the retort furnished , on addition of an alkali , amylamine in considerable quantities .
It was identified with that obtained from cyanate of amyl , both by the determination of its boiling-point and by the analysis of the platinum-salt .
The transformation of the cyanide of amyl , like that of the cyanide of phenyl , does not take place at a single step ; intermediate combinations corresponding to metheylphyliphenyldiamine and to phenylformamide are produced , but I have not yet obtained them in a state of purity .
1867 .
] ].49 I have designated the body described in this note by the name of cyanide of amyl ; I am of course aware that the same name has been given to the substance produced by the action of cyanide of potassium on the sulphamylates ; but as the latter compound , in consequence of its transformation into caproic acid and ammonia , has a right to the name capronitrille , I have thought it desirable to distinguish , provisionally at least , the new product by the name of cyanide of amyl .
The examination of the cyanides of amyl and phenyl establishes in a positive manner the existence of a group of bodies isomeric with the nitriles derived from the ordinary alcohols and phenols .
I have not as yet pursued more minutely the study of the other terms of these groups ; in fact the field opened by these new observations presents questions much more attractive .
The existence of the new homologues of hydrocyanic acid allow us to foresee the formation of quite another series of homologues of cyanogen .
These bodies will be produced by the action of chloroform on the diamines .
Ethylene-diamine , for example , will thus be transformed into the dicyanide of ethylene ; C2H N2 + 2CHCI3 = C4H , N2 + 6HC1 .
EthyleneChloroform .
Dicyanide of diamine .
ethylene .
I am now occupied with the study of the action of chloroform on ethylene-diamine , and I propose shortly to inform the Royal Society whether experiment confirms the predictions of theory .

