233 Further Observations on the , Patholoyy o f Gastric .
( Progress .
) By Charles Bolton , M.D. , D.Sc .
, F.R.C.P. , Director of the Research Laboratories , University College Hospital Medical School , Assistant Physician to University College Hospital .
( Communicated by Prof. Sidney Martin , F.R.S. Received November 16 , 1909 , \#151 ; ' Read January 20 , 1910 .
) ( From the Research Laboratories , University College Hospital Medical School .
) [ Plates 8 and 9 .
] The gastric ulcers in these experiments were produced by the injection of gastrotoxic serum .
In a former communication ( 1 ) it was demonstrated that the serum , formed by immunising the rabbit with the gastric cells of the guinea-pig or with those of another rabbit , on injection into the guineapig 's peritoneum produced general symptoms of intoxication and patches of necrosis in the mucous membrane of the stomach .
In two later communications ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) the reactions of gastrotoxin in vitro and its precise mode of action in corpore were demonstrated .
In a fourth paper ( 4 ) the healing of gastrotoxic ulcers was dealt with , the method adopted in this series of experiments being that of injection of the serum directly into the stomach wall , so that it attacked the gastric cells directly and not through the blood stream , and in this way an ulcer was produced without general symptoms of intoxication .
Briefly stated , it was found that such ulcers invariably healed within three or four weeks , and that , so long as the stomach emptied itself in the normal time , any moderate alteration in the acidity of the gastric contents did not delay the healing of the ulcers .
Chronic gastric ulcer in the human subject is , however , a common malady and , since ulcers formed by the process of self-digestion are initially acute , it was considered that there must be present some unknown condition or conditions which prevents the healing of such chronic ulcers .
The present communication deals especially with the effects of motor insufficiency of the stomach upon the healing Of gastric ulcer .
In order to study the effects of motor insufficiency , it is necessary to use an animal which eats definite meals and has definite resting " periods between .
The cat was chosen as a suitable animal .
VOL. l x x x i i.\#151 ; B. u I.* Production of a Gastrotoxin Active against the Gat .
1 .
Method.\#151 ; The gastric cells of the cat were periodically injected into another animal , the blood or the latter gradually becoming poisonous for the cat 's gastric mucous membrane .
In this way I have endeavoured to immunise the rabbit , fowl , and goat .
The rabbit and fowl proved very difficult animals to work with , as they very readily succumbed to the injections and could only resist very small doses .
Immunisation of the Goat.\#151 ; I found that the goat was quite a suitable animal , and that it produced a very powerful gastrotoxin for the cat .
Subcutaneous injections of cat 's stomach cells were given at intervals of 7 to 10 days .
The development of the immune substances in the blood of the goat is the same as I have before described in connection with the guinea-pig-rabbit gastrotoxin .
At first I injected the cells themselves , but found that abcesses were liable to result .
I then tried an emulsion of cells in a solution of salicylic acid with a similar result .
I now use a fresh dilute saline extract and give 50 c.c. for a dose .
This very rarely produces suppuration if due care be exercised .
The injections are given as I have described before , and the goat is bled from the ear if a small quantity of blood be required , but from the jugular vein with a cannula if a large quantity be needed .
I have used the blood serum so obtained as a means of producing an ulcer of a definite size and in a definite position in the cat 's stomach .
2 .
Effects of Local Injection of the Serum.\#151 ; The method of local injection into the cat 's stomach wall is the same as I described in connection with the guinea-pig .
The animal is anaesthetised with ether and the abdomen opened under antiseptic precautions .
The stomach is drawn out and a hypodermic needle inserted between the mucous and peritoneal layers of the stomach .
The serum is slowly injected with a 10-c.c .
glass syringe .
A local oedema is thus produced which forms a button-like thickening in the wall and projects into the lumen of the stomach as a rounded elevation .
If cut across , the fluid appears to be infiltrating the muscular coat .
I have tried injections between the muscular and peritoneal coats and also between the muscular and mucous coats , but the result always appears to be the same , and I have not found it possible to destroy definite layers of the stomach wall in this way .
I t might be possible to do so in the case of a larger animal .
The amounts I have injected are from 5 to 10 c.c. I now employ 6 or 7 c.c. when I wish to produce an ulcer .
The serum is rapidly absorbed , and apparently soaks into the overlying mucous membrane , which is then digested by the gastric juice .
In all the following experiments the serum Dr. C. Bolton .
Further Observations on the [ Nov. 16 , Pathology 1909 .
] of Gastric Ulcer .
235 was injected about the middle of the anterior wall at the cardiac end of the stomach .
The animals , as a rule , do not eat well for a day or two , and may vomit once or twice and lose a little weight , but they soon recover and do not appear to suffer from any symptoms .
Formation.\#151 ; The part of the mucous membrane affected sloughs , and by the third to the fifth day a clean ulcer results , which may involve the mucous membrane only , or may extend through the submucous and muscular coats .
The depth depends upon the strength of the serum and upon the condition of the contents of the stomach .
Perforation of the ulcer and resulting peritonitis occasionally occurs .
The acute ulcer so formed has cleanly defined margins and base , and is rounded or sometimes more irregular in shape .
The whole of the area of muscular coat exposed may have disappeared or only a portion of it .
In short , the ulcer presents the typical punched-out appearance of the acute gastric ulcer of man .
3 .
Mode of Action of the Serum.\#151 ; As I have said , the action is a toxic one .
The serum causes changes in the cells of the overlying mucous membrane , which is then digested by the gastric juice .
That the action is not a mechanical one I have proved by injecting neutral fluids , as I have described previously in the case of the guinea-pig .
Ten cubic centimetres of cat 's serum may be injected into the stomach wall , and whether the stomach is resting or digesting the serum is completely absorbed , and no ulcer results .
Further , the effect produced on the stomach and the extent of the ulceration depend upon the stage of immunisation to which the goat has reached .
So that there is a definite poison in the serum which directly affects the gastric cells in the same way as the guineapigrabbit serum affects the cells of the guinea-pig .
4 .
Dependence of the Extent of Ulceration upon whether the Stomach is Besting or Digesting.\#151 ; The necrotic lesions in the gastric mucous membrane being dependent upon the action of the gastric juice , it would appear that when the gastric glands were resting and the stomach empty the lesions should fail to appear or at all events be less marked than when the organ contained food , unless the gastrotoxin has the power of exciting secretion , a point which I have not yet investigated .
I did a series of experiments on guinea-pigs , half the animals being starved and half fed , to settle this question , and found that I was unable to do so , because it is practically impossible in my experience to obtain a guinea-pig with its stomach absolutely empty .
These animals will not live very long without food , and 24 hours after feeding the stomach contains a fair amount of highly acid fluid with food remnants .
u 2 236 Dr. C. Bolton .
Further Observations on the [ Nov. 16 .
In the case of the cat I have been able to prove definitely that when the stomach is empty the ulcer may not appear at all , and if it does that it only extends down to the submucous tissue , as a rule .
Of nine experiments , ulceration failed to appear in three , and in the remaining six was only superficial .
Even though the stomach be empty , there is often a little acid fluid in it , and this accounts for lesions occurring in the empty stomach .
I may point out also that the secretion of gastric juice not only depends upon the presence of food in the stomach , but is also a reflex nervous phenomenon .
The cat has a very keen scent , and it is difficult to exclude the smell of food , which excites a flow of gastric juice .
Moreover , I do not know how long the effect of the poison upon the cells lasts , and if food be given before this effect passes off , ulceration will of course occur .
This is a matter of no small importance , because when the process of ulceration is actively going on , one point in the treatment of such a case is obviously to stop the flow of gastric juice , not to encourage it by giving a diet such as recommended by Lenhartz ( 5 ) ; I have shown before that whenever the stomach contains food , even though the food be strongly alkaline , there is always a layer having a strongly acid reaction in contact with the wall of the stomach .
In all the following experiments , 15 grammes of cut-up meat were given to each cat two hours before the operation for the production of ulcer .
II .
The Healing of Acute Gastric Ulcer in the Cat. The healing stages have been studied in 21 cats on a normal diet .
After the 3rd to the 5th day healing commences and is completed in many cases before , and nearly always by , the 21st day .
The edges of the ulcer are drawn together by contraction of the muscular coat of the stomach , and fixed in this position by the formation of fibrous tissue .
Puckering of the surrounding mucous membrane is thus produced , and a stellate scar results .
The amount of the puckering depends upon the previous degree of contraction of the muscular coat , and the shrinkage of the fibrous base of the ulcer ( Plate 8 , fig. 1 ) .
Sometimes the edges of the mucous membrane are curved inwards all round , probably by retraction of the muscularis mucosae .
The pressure of this edge interferes with the normal regeneration of the mucous membrane .
The peritoneum is thickened to different degrees , and may be adherent to the omentum , liver , or diaphragm .
The regeneration of the gastric mucous membrane was fully worked out microscopically by Griffini and Yassale ( 6 ) 20 years ago .
They cut off portions of mucous membrane , and found that the glandular epithelial cells proliferate Pathology of 1909 .
] Gastric Ulcer .
237 upwards to the surface , which they cover with flattened cells .
These flattened cells grow out , and cover the whole raw surface by the 8th to the 10th day .
The surface cells become cubical , and from them grow down tubes forming the new glands .
Till the 30th day the glands are formed of cubical cells ; at this time " pepsin cells " become differentiated at the base of the glands , and till the 55th day the glands increase in numbers .
They make no mention of the development of oxyntic cells , but from a consideration of the figures in their paper I gather that they mean oxyntic cells by the term " pepsin cells .
" The above changes only occur at the stated times if the animal eat no food for four or five days at the beginning , and be then put on milk , and finally milk and bread for a time .
If it be allowed to eat solid food at the beginning , regeneration has hardly commenced by the 8th to the 12th day .
The ulcers do not invariably heal in this rapid fashion , and in one case I found an unhealed ulcer on the 21st day .
The microscopic investigation of this ulcer shows that its base is formed of dense fibrous tissue , which passes out on each side and blends with the muscular coats of the stomach .
The edge of the mucous membrane on one side is recurved , but not on the other .
At both edges the mucous membrane has grown out for a short space in a single layer of cells , and there ends at the edge of the ulcer .
The granulation tissue of the floor of the ulcer has fungated above the level of the regenerated mucous membrane , and this partially organised granulation tissue , for a depth of one-sixth of the whole thickness of the wall of the stomach , has undergone necrosis , the necrotic tissue extending up to the edge of the growing epithelium , where it stops .
I t is impossible for the cells to grow over this dead tissue , and hence the delay in the time of healing .
This animal was fed on the same diet as the other twenty .
I have microscopically examined only one scar as old as 55 days .
The mucous membrane in this specimen is regenerated as described by Griffini and Vassale , but no oxyntic cells are present except at the very edge next to the normal mucous membrane .
The mouths of the glands in places are dilated , and the glands widely separated by interstitial tissue .
The base of the scar is formed of loose fibro-cellular tissue , embedded in which are seen isolated strands of muscular tissue ( fig. 2 ) .
In another specimen , 41 days old , the base of the scar is formed of dense fibrous tissue , with thin and atrophied muscular tissue between it and the peritoneum .
The edges of the normal mucous membrane are recurved .
The regenerated mucous membrane is thin and the glands short , implanted directly on the fibrous tissue , and all dilated and lined by cubical cells .
The mouths of the ducts are very wide .
The interstitial tissue is excessive in amount and separates the glands widely .
There are no central nor oxyntic cells to be seen .
At one edge the regenerated mucous membrane is connected with the normal mucous membrane by a single layer of cubical cells lying on the fibrous base of the scar .
From the condition of the glands it seems as if this ulcer were delayed , but eventually healed up .
III .
The Production of Motor Insufficiency of the Stomach of the Cat. In speaking of the motor power of the stomach , I mean the ability of the muscular coats of the stomach to empty the contents into the duodenum Deficiency in this ability or motor insufficiency is seen clinically in different degrees .
If the degree of motor insufficiency be judged by the size or capacity of the stomach , the more extreme conditions only will be observed , and the less extreme conditions , in which the size of the stomach is often not much increased , will be neglected .
Increased capacity does not necessarily imply a pathological condition , for in health the stomach is an organ the size of which is subject to wide variations .
A very large stomach may not be a " dilated stomach " in the pathological sense .
The whole question turns upon whether or not the muscular coat of the stomach is able to propel the food into the small intestine within the physiological limits of time , and the essential feature in motor insufficiency is a delayed expulsion df food from the stomach .
The slighter grades depend upon a so-called atony of the muscular coat , and in such a condition the motor function may be so damaged that food is retained for 24 hours or more , or probably upon a temporary spasm of the pylorus in some cases ; the higher grades , in which complete stagnation occurs , depend upon pyloric obstruction .
The commonest form of indigestion of food is probably chiefly associated with delay in the emptying of the stomach .
I t is such a condition that I have endeavoured to reproduce experimentally .
Method.\#151 ; My method of estimating the presence and the degree of motor insufficiency existing is the same as that employed clinically , namely , that of finding out whether food remains in the stomach beyond a certain time , with the difference that clinically one passes the stomach tube .
In these cases to be absolutely exact I kill the animal .
After a meal of 100 to 120 grammes of meat , the cat 's stomach is usually empty in 12 hours .
Cannon ( 7 ) found this by the employment of the X-rays after Bismuth meals ; I have confirmed it by killing a series of animals at different times .
So that if a cat be given a meal of 100 to 120 grammes of meat at 6 p.m. its stomach should be empty by 9 a.m. on the following morning ; if not , it is the subject of motor insufficiency of the stomach .
Dr. 0 .
Bolton .
Further Observations on the [ Nov. 16 , Pathology of 1909 .
] Gastric Ulcer .
239 The method of producing motor insufficiency which I employ is that of artificial pyloric stenosis .
The constricting band consists of a piece of rubber tubing as used for constricting the vena cava in my experiments on cardiac dropsy ( 8 ) .
The rubber tubing ( \#163 ; inch or less in length ) is slit open longitudinally and a silk ligature passed round the outside of i t ; each free end of the ligature is made to pierce the rubber tubing from without in and again from within out , the ligature now appearing just outside the cut margin .
When the ends of the ligature are tied the cut margins come together and the lumen of the tube is restored .
By taking a tube of appropriate diameter a thin-walled vessel such as a vein may be constricted to any definite fraction of its diameter required .
This cannot be done exactly in the case of the duodenum , because its walls are too thick and it is a contractile organ , so that I have been unable to measure definitely the amount of constriction .
The duodena of different cats vary enormously in diameter : a small cat may have a large duodenum and , vice versed , a large cat a small duodenum ; one has therefore to keep a supply of different sizes of tubes ready at eaeh operation .
I have found this method completely successful , but since one cannot measure the amount of constriction the latter has to be guessed , with the result that it is impossible to be absolutely certain what will happen in any given case .
If too tight the animal will die , if too slack complete compensation occurs , but in most cases some degree of motor insufficiency results , and after a little practice this end can be accomplished in the vast majority of cases .
The abdomen is opened in the middle line under strict antiseptic precautions , and the rubber tubing applied just beyond the pylorus around the first part of the duodenum .
The animals with motor insufficiency have diminished appetite and lose flesh ; they occasionally vomit , but , curiously enough , vomiting may be practically absent in the higher grades of retention of food , possibly due to depressed sensibility of the sensory nerves of the stomach .
In the slighter grades there is a delay in emptying the stomach , and in these there may be slight dilatation of the stomach or n o t ; at all events the muscular coat has diminished resistance to stretching after death .
A curious feature in these cases is the amount of hair found in the stomach .
Hair is always liable to be found in the cat 's stomach , due to the animal 's habit of licking .
In cases of motor insufficiency the hair collects in the stomach , as apparently it is not so able as food to pass the pylorus .
The meat is cut up for the animals , as they will not usually eat large pieces .
The amount of the appetite is easily estimated by weighing everything the animal is given and everything it leaves .
In the higher grades of insufficiency the stomach is usually found dilated and thinned , and may contain large quantities of brown acid fluid .
On the other hand , the stomach may be found empty when vomiting has been a prominent symptom .
In the latter cases retention of food is probably largely absent , as what remains is vomited .
The animal may discover exactly how much its stomach is capable of dealing with within the physiological limits of time , so that no retention occurs .
The presence of diminished appetite , vomiting , and wasting are therefore not definite indications of retention of food , The only tests which are of value are the presence of food in the stomach a certain length of time after a test meal , or the presence of dilatation of the stomach .
IY .
The Effects of Motor Insufficiency u the in the Cat. The pylorus is first constricted and , after the animal has recovered and settled down to a more or less definite diet , a gastric ulcer is produced as described above on the anterior wall of the stomach , midway between the cardiac and pyloric orifices .
There are four groups of experiments .
Group I. Six experiments:\#151 ; Cat 1 : weight 2865 grammes .
February 4 , 1909.\#151 ; Pylorus constricted .
Tube , 9 mm. Vomited twice ; appetite soon recovered and in a few days eats an average of 250 grammes daily ; no vomiting .
February 19.\#151 ; Intramural injection of 6 c.c. serum .
March 11.\#151 ; Test meal , 120 grammes meat at 6 p.m. , all eaten .
Weight 3105 grammes .
March 12.\#151 ; Killed 9 a.m. ; stomach empty except for considerable amount of hair .
Acid in reaction .
Scar of healed ulcer present day ) ( fig. 3 , a ) .
This animal is useful as a control , as no motor insufficiency was present .
Cat 2 : died the day after the serum was injected .
Cat 3 : weight 3700 grammes .
February 4 , 1909.\#151 ; Pylorus constricted .
Tube , 9 mm. Vomited once or twice ; appetite recovered , and in a few days eats 100 to 150 grammes .
Weight 2895 grammes .
February 19.\#151 ; Intramural injection of 6 \lt ; kc .
serum .
Appetite lost at first , but in a few days recovered to the extent of about 130 grammes a day , and then gradually lost again , and finally eats 10 to 30 grammes a day only ; no vomiting .
March 11.\#151 ; \#187 ; Test meal , 6 p.m. , not eaten .
Weight 2500 grammes .
" 12.\#151 ; Killed 9 A.M. , stomach much dilated , wall thin and it main240 Dr. C. Bolton .
Further Observations on the [ Nov. 16 , Pathology 1909 .
] of Gastric Ulcer .
241 tains its shape on opening .
Contains 160 c.c. brownish mucoid fluid containing 0'259 per cent. HC1 .
Large ulcer healing , base somewhat thickened and composed of granulation tissue on free surface day ) .
Cat 4 : died on the eighth day after the injection ; 20 c.c. yellowish acid fluid in stomach , which was not dilated .
An ulcer was present about the same size as that of Cat 6 in a sloughing condition .
' Cat 5 : weight 3610 grammes .
February 10 , 1909.\#151 ; Pyloric constriction .
Tube , 9 mm. Soon recovered and appetite good .
Able to eat 200 grammes a day .
February 19.\#151 ; Intramural injection of 6 c.c. serum .
Appetite never bad , easily eats 200 grammes .
Vomited once .
March 25.\#151 ; Test meal , 105 grammes , 6 p.m. Weight 4270 grammes .
March 26.\#151 ; Killed 9 a .m .
Stomach distended and contained 80 grammes meat and some hair .
An unhealed ulcer present , the base being formed of granulation tissue with a little haemorrhage from it .
Base thickened and omentum adherent to it .
Feels like a thick nodule of fibrous tissue in the stomach wall ( Z5th day ) ( fig. 3 , b ) .
Cat 6 : Died on the third day after injection : a large perforation present .
Group II .
Eight experiments.\#151 ; The pylorus was constricted in each animal , and on April 28 , 1909 , 8 c.c. immune serum of the goat were injected into the stomach wall of each .
Six of these animals died within 10 days ; of these , three had large ulcers , two perforated , and one had a large ulcer with extensive haemorrhagic infiltration and ulceration of the mucous membrane around .
This extensive ulceration , with or without haemorrhagic infiltration spreading round the ulcer , 1 have found in six cases of pyloric stenosis , and never apart from it .
In all the cases the fluid in the stomach was neutral or alkaline .
Occasionally there is some oedema of the stomach wall .
I t is possible that this condition may be due to a secondary bacterial infection owing to the alkalinity of the stomach contents , but this point remains to be investigated .
The stomach contents , however , may be alkaline in the absence of this spreading ulceration .
Of the two remaining animals , one died on the 26th day with a large unhealed ulcer and the stomach a little dilated and thinned , and the other survived and was killed on the 56th day .
The stomach of the latter animal was not dilated and it had disposed of its test meal of 60 grammes in 15 hours .
There was a large triangular depressed scar with some contraction of the stomach at that spot .
Microscopical examination : The base of the original ulcer is formed of young fibrous tissue composed of elongated cells and short fibres interlacing in every direction and packed together into a dense mass .
The newly formed mucous membrane is directly implanted on this fibrous tissue .
There is no recurving of the normal mucous membrane .
The newly formed glands are largely made up of cubical or columnar epithelial cells , but at the base in many places central cells have been formed , but no oxyntic cells .
The glands mostly have distinct lumina and a large number of cystic spaces has been formed , the cysts being lined by flattened cells .
The mouths of the glands are wide open and in many places a coarsely villous appearance is given to the surface ( fig. 4 ) .
A great deal of cellular infiltration'exists between the glands and in places projections of fibrous tissue from the base cut up the mucous membrane .
In some of the large cysts ridges of fibrous tissue covered with epithelium project into the lumina , partially dividing them into locculi .
Of the controls , two died with large ulcers during the first week and the remaining one was killed on the 55th day , showing the usual radiating scar of normal healing .
Group I I I .
Seven experiments.\#151 ; The pylorus was constricted in animal , and on May 14 , 1909 , 6 c.c immune injected into the stomach wall of each .
Six of these animals died within five days ; of these , four had haemorrhage infiltration and ulceration around the ulcer , which had been produced , and in one of .these cases the ulceration occupied half the whole a re a .
of the mucous membrane of the stomach .
In each case the fluid in the stomach was alkaline or neutral .
Of the remaining two , one perforated and the other had an ulcer of the usual size .
One of the animals survived and was killed on the 41st day .
There was a little dilatation , and a small unhealed ulcer was present .
This was to some extent concealed by the surrounding mucous membrane , which was very exuberant .
Microscopical Examination : The edges of the normal mucous membrane are turned in , the mouths of the glands almost touching the thin epithelium covering the healed portion of the ulcer .
The whole thickness of the stomach wall at this spot is composed of dense , sclerotic , fibrous tissue , with round cells in spaces here and there .
In the centre is an unhealed portion occupying about one-fourth of the diameter of the original ulcer .
The base of this unhealed portion is formed of looser tissue , containing cells and a few dilated capillary vessels , and in the centre this tissue projects and has undergone necrosis .
The base of the original ulcer is much thicker in the centre than at the sides .
There is another unhealed portion towards the side , about one-fourth the size of the former , where the recurved mucous membrane touches the base of the ulcer .
The reformed epithelium covering the healed portion consists of a single layer of cells , apparently a continuation of that covering the surface of the normal epithelium .
The cells are columnar in type , and as they near the Dr. C. Bolton .
Further Observations on the [ Nov. 16 , Pathology 1909 .
] of Gastric Ulcer .
243 edges of the two ulcerated surfaces gradually become flatter and flatter till they look like endothelial cells and disappear ( fig. 5 ) .
The cells are implanted directly upon the fibrous tissue of the base .
At one spot two tiny gland ducts have started to grow , each consisting of a dozen or more cells and forming little depressions in the fibrous tissue , otherwise the reformed epithelium consists merely of a single layer of cells .
Of the control animals , one perforated on the 10th day and the other was killed on the 41st day and showed a small triangular scar in the stomach .
Group IV .
Eight experiments.\#151 ; The pylorus was constricted in each animal and on June 4 , 1909 , 5 c.c. immune serum of the goat were injected into the stomach wall of each .
Four of these animals died within the first 15 days .
Of these , one perforated , one had haemorrhagic infiltration and ulceration around the ulcer , and two had ulcers of the usual size .
The remaining four cats survived and all had the scars of healed ulcers .
Of these , two must be excluded because the stomach had been able to compensate and no motor insufficiency developed .
The remaining two , whose autopsies were performed on the 52nd and 55th days respectively , and which had motor insufficiency , remain to be considered .
52 ndDay Cat.\#151 ; The base of the scar is formed of dense fibro-cellular tissue , at the outer part covered with a thin layer of atrophied muscle .
The edges of the normal mucous membrane are recurved and where they press on the base of the scar have flattened the newly formed epithelium so that at one spot it only consists of a single layer of cubical cells .
The new epithelium covering the scar has grown up into glands in the centre , where it is freed from pressure .
The glands are formed entirely of duct epithelium directly implanted on the fibro-cellular tissue .
There are no central nor oxyntic cells present .
There is a good deal of cystic dilatation at one side where the normal joins the new mucous membrane .
These cysts are lined by flattened epithelium .
There is a considerable amount of new connective tissue between the glands .
obth Day Cat.\#151 ; The base of the scar is not formed of such dense fibrous tissue as in the former cat , and the muscular coats of the stomach have not been destroyed to the same extent .
The mucous membrane is thicker and the glands fairly well formed , central cells are present at the base and in places oxyntic cells can be seen .
The glands are of irregular shapes and separated by infiltration of new connective tissue .
There is some cystic formation of the glands .
The two control animals both lived and showed the radiating scars of normal healing on the 55th day .
Sections of one showed the mucous 244 Dr. C. Bolton .
Further Observations on the [ Nov. 16 , inembrane completely reformed as I related in describing the normal healing Of acute gastric ulcer .
In Group I , Experiments 1 , 3 , and 5 are conclusive .
In Experiment 1 there was no motor insufficiency and the ulcer healed in the usual way , leaving a small stellate scar , within 21 days .
In Experiments 3 and 5 there was motor insufficiency and the ulcers were unhealed on the 21st and 35th days respectively .
Experiments 2 , 4 , and 6 .are of use as controls to show what the ulcers were like in the early stages .
In Group I I the 26th day animal had motor insufficiency and an unhealed ulcer .
The 56th day animal showed a scar with considerable fibro-cellular thickening and imperfectly formed glands .
The fibrous thickening and imperfect glands show a delay in the healing , but I have not included this case because I was unable to prove that there was motor insufficiency , the animal having J5 hours in which to dispose of its 60 grammes of food , although I think that it was present .
In Group I I I the 41st day animal had an unhealed ulcer and motor insufficiency .
There was dense fibrous thickening of the sclerotic type and the mucous membrane which was reformed consisted of a single layer of cells such as should be present on the 8th or 10th day of normal healing according to Griffini and Yassale .
In Group IVthe 52nd day cat had a scar of considerable fibro-cellular thickening covered with a mucous membrane composed of very imperfectly formed glands such as should be present on the 16th day of normal healing .
The 55th day cat had a scar the base of which was not so dense , and the glands were almost completely reformed .
I t is quite evident from these experiments that retention of food produced by motor insufficiency may delay the healing of an acute gastric ulcer for a period at least twice the length of the normal .
Different degrees of insufficiency produce differences in the amount of delay .
The delay occurs at two stages:\#151 ; ( 1 ) When a single layer of epithelium covers the base of the ulcer and before glandular formation has commenced ( = 10th day of normal healing ) .
( 2 ) When the glands have been reformed but the central and oxyntic cells not differentiated .
The glands are merely formed of duct epithelium at this stage ( = 16th day of normal healing ) .
Whether , if the animals had been allowed to- live , completely formed glands would have eventually developed is a very interesting question .
In the normal healing of an ulcer there may be some delay , as is seen from the two cases quoted above , in which one was delayed owing to necrosis of the granulation tissue at the base of the ulcer , and the other was healed , but 1909 .
] Pathology o f Gastric Ulcer .
245 covered with glands of the duct epithelium type .
So that the delay occurring in cases of motor insufficiency is merely an exaggeration of the delay which may occur in exceptional cases normally .
That it is a true delay is obvious , because the different conditions found exactly correspond to the various stages in the normal healing of an ulcer .
Cause of the Delay in Healing.\#151 ; For the normal regeneration of the mucous membrane to take place it is necessary ( 1 ) that the epithelial cells should be uninjured and free to grow over the base of the ulcer ; and ( 2 ) that the base of the ulcer should consist of healthy granulation tissue containing an abundance of cells , so that the over-growing epithelial cells can be properly nourished , and so that the tissue over which the cells grow can supply a suitable stroma for the growth of the glands from the surface epithelium .
If either of these conditions be not fulfilled the healing must be delayed .
I t will , I think , be generally admitted that the epithelial cells are more resistant to the action of the gastric juice than the tissue forming the base of the ulcer , and the great resistance displayed by these cells is seen in the promptitude with which they cover the surface , and by the fact that they can resist the action of HC1 of 0*7 to 0-9 per cent , strength ( 4 ) .
Of course , the incurving of the mucous membrane at the edges of the ulcer must offer a formidable resistance to the growth of the cells , both by the abnormal direction in which the cells have to grow , and the pressure exerted on the base of the ulcer by the incurved mucous membrane .
Still , this is by no means an insuperable obstacle , as the cells are readily able to grow round the angle in a single layer and , when free from the pressure , to sprout out into glands in the centre of the ulcer .
So that one is rather compelled to look for any conditions which may be present in the base of the ulcer which can prevent the epithelium growing over it or are able to modify its growth .
If the base of the ulcer be necrotic , as may occur as the result of bacterial invasion or digestion by the gastric juice , it is obvious that the growth of the epithelium over it would be at once arrested ; and , on the other hand , if the base be irritated and dense fibrous tissue rapidly formed , it is equally obvious that the epithelium would be modified in its growth , both by deficient blood supply and the failure of the fibrous tissue to form a suitable stroma for the process of glandular formation .
In the three cases described in the normal healing of ulcer , I have mentioned that in one the exuberant granulations had become necrotic and had stopped the growth of the epithelium ; that in another the base was formed of dense fibrous tissue and the overlying glands formed of duct epithelium only ; and that in the third the glands were completely regenerated and the underlying tissue more loose and cellular in character .
In the cases of pyloric stenosis the same principle is observed .
In proportion as the base is sclerotic the more difficult is it for the epithelium to be regenerated and the glands to proliferate .
It follows from this that delay in the healing of an acute gastric ulcer is not so much due epithelium as to the condition of the base of the ulcer over which it is growing .
I t was shown by Griffini and Yassale , as stated above , that the base of a defect in the mucous membrane is covered with surface epithelium in 8 to 10 days if the animal eat no food for 4 to 5 days and is then put on milk , but that regeneration of the epithelium has hardly commenced by the 8th to 12th day if it eat solid food from the first day .
The condition of the gastric contents is therefore of supreme importance in the healing of ulcer .
In pyloric stenosis , food saturated with gastric juice is retained beyond the normal time .
Excessive irritation and injury of the base of the ulcer results and bacteria have more time in which to attach themselves to it , so that in the early stages excessive exudation of leucocytes and perhaps necrosis of the granulation tissue results , and in the later stages excessive fibrosis .
The former condition will delay the growth of the surface epithelium over the base , and the latter will prevent the regeneration of the glands .
This appears to me to be comparable to the failure of cancer to grow in an immune mouse , the latter being unable to furnish a vascular stroma for the cancer to develop in ( 9 ) .
I t is conceivable that excessive formation of sclerotic tissue in the base of the ulcer might completely prevent the growth of epithelium over it in which case the ulcer would deepen from digestion of the fibrous tissue , but of this I have no actual proof .
Simple motor insufficiency will delay the healing of an acute ulcer , but will not stop the healing nor make the ulcer extend .
8 .
Effect of Motor Insufficiency upon the Size of the TJlcer.\#151 ; A comparison of the sizes and tendency to perforate of the ulcers produced in the above cases of pyloric stenosis with those of the control animals shows that motor insufficiency has no influence in increasing the sizes or tendency to perforate of the ulcers produced .
On the other hand , in 6 out of 29 cases there were considerable haemorrhage and acute ulceration around the spot where the ulcer was produced , and in all these cases the gastric contents were alkaline or neutral .
This is undoubtedly a direct result of the pyloric stenosis , as I have never seen it apart from that condition .
Whether or not it is due to a secondary bacterial invasion of the ulcer , I am not at present in a position to state .
V. Conclusions .
1 .
A gastrotoxic serum active against the cat may be prepared by immunising the goat with cat 's gastric cells .
Dr. C. Bolton .
Further Observations on the [ Nov. 16 , Pathology of 1909 .
] Gastric Ulcer .
24 7 Its properties , which have been examined , have been found to correspond to those of the gastrotoxin formed by immunising the rabbit with guinea-pig 's gastric cells .
2 .
Acute gastric ulcer in the cat heals within a few weeks , as in the case of the guinea-pig .
This result agrees with those of other observers who have produced lesions by injury of the gastric mucous membrane of dogs .
3 .
The ulceration produced by gastrotoxin is more extensive if produced whilst the stomach is digesting than whilst it is resting ; in the latter case ulceration may fail to appear .
4 .
Motor insufficiency of the stomach definitely delays the healing of gastric ulcer for at least twice the normal time .
There is more thickening of the base and less complete regeneration of the gastric glands than occurs in cases of normal healing .
This may explain the beneficial effect following gastro-enterostomy for chronic gastric ulcer in man .
5 .
The character of the mucous membrane covering the base of an ulcer , in which the healing has been delayed , varies in proportion to the delay .
It may consist of a single layer Of epithelial cells on the 41st day , such as should be found on the 8th to the 10th day of normal healing ; of regenerated glands consisting merely of duct epithelium on the 52nd day , such as should be found on the 16th day ; or of almost completely regenerated glands .
Whether eventually in process of time the glands would be always completely reformed has not been determined , but more likely they would not .
6 .
The delay in the healing in cases of motor insufficiency is due to a fault in the base of the ulcer , such as may occasionally be seen in normal healing .
This fault may be due to necrosis of the base of the ulcer or excessive formation of sclerotic tissue therein , such conditions being the result of the low resistance which the connective tissues possess to digestion by the gastric juice , or possibly in some cases to a secondary bacterial infection .
7 .
When pyloric stenosis is present , extensive ulceration may be found around the ulcer , probably due to a bacterial infection .
The ulcer actually produced by the serum , however , is no more liable to perforate nor to be more extensive than in the control animal . .
REFERENCES .
1 .
Bolton , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , p. 135 , 1904 .
2 .
Bolton , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 77 , p. 426 , 1906 .
3 .
Bolton , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 79 , p. 533 , 1907 .
4 .
Bolton , ' Roy .
Soc. Medicine Proc. ' ( Path .
Sect. ) , vol. 2 , No. 2 , p. 54 , 1908 .
248 Further Observations on the Pathology of Gastric .
5 .
Lenhartz , ' Munch .
Med. Woch .
, ' 1904 , vol. 51 , p. 1 , 6 .
Griffini and Vassale , 'Ziegler 's Beitr .
, ' vol. 3 , p. 425 .
7 .
Cannon , ' Am .
Journ. Physiol. , ' Boston , 1898 , vol. 1 , p. 359 .
8 .
Bolton , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 79 , p. 267 , 1907 .
9 .
Imperial Cancer Kesearch Fund , Third Scientific Report , p. 341 .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
P late 8 .
F ig .
1 .\#151 ; To illustrate the normal healing of gastric ulcer in the cat .
A. Fourth day.\#151 ; A punched out ulcer , with cleanly cut edges , extends through the muscular coat of the stomach .
B. 16th day.\#151 ; This specimen shows an excessive amount " of contraction , which is unusual .
In the centre is a small unhealed surface .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Section of cat 's stomach showing regeneration of the glands on the 55th day .
The glands are irregular , no oxyntic cells are present , and there is a considerable amount of interstitial tissue .
Plate 9 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; To illustrate the delay in healing produced by motor insufficiency of the stomach .
A. Stomach of control cat , Group 1 .
( Pyloric stenosis .
) A small radiating scar is seen ( 21st day ) to the right of the centre .
B. Stomach of Cat 5 , Group 1 .
An unhealed and thickened ulcer is present ( 35th day ) .
The stomach is a little dilated and the rugae are not so prominent as normal .
F ig .
4.\#151 ; Section of stomach of 56th day cat , Group 2 .
( Pyloric stenosis ) , showing very irregular growth and cystic dilatation of the regenerated glands .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Section of stomach of 41st day cat , Group 3 .
( Pyloric stenosis ) , showing an unhealed ulcer with sclerotic base and the epithelium growing over it in a single layer of cells .
Bolton .
Roy .
Soc. rcoP , .
B. vol. 82 , Plate 8 .
F ig .
1 , a .
F ig .
1 , b .
F ig .
2 .
| Jilton .
F ig .
3 , a .
Roy .
Soc. rcoP , .
B. 82 , Plate F ig .
3 , b. F ig .
4 .
F ig .
5 .

