" On the Functions of the Tympanum .
" By JAMES JAGO , A.B. Cantab .
, M.B. Oxon .
, Physician to the Royal Cornwall Infirmary .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Se. .
R. Received January 23 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) As in my present effort to obtain further light upon some of the still obscure points in the physiology of the ear I have been primarily guided by observations made upon my own ears , I should premise that both are very efficient for hearing ; but that they differ from each other in the important particular that the faucial orifice of the right Eustachian tube closes much less tightly than that of the left , insomuch that there are times when the former becomes quite patent , with no disposition to collapse .
Again , having lately been troubled for above five weeks with a tymzpanic deafness , I carefully registered a series of auditory phenomena resulting therefrom , and found them exceedingly noteworthy .
Lastly , I have made certain experiments upon the external auditory canals of the sound ears .
I compare , then , with one another , the phenomena yielded by a normal ear , an ear with an open Eustachian tube , an ear with the drum impaired in a particular manner , and an ear whose external meatus is in a known altered condition ; calling in facts from other sources in aid ; and , finally , endeavour to determine the uses to be assigned to the several structures of the drum in order to embrace all the phenomena * .
I assure myself that my Eustachian tubes are ordinarily shut , by the difficulty ( greater for my left one ) of forcing the breath into the drums when I stop my mouth and nose , and the hinderment to its escape till I swallow or eructate , showing that those acts open the tubes .
If we mark the sinking-in of the lachrymal sac when we swallow with the mouth and nose stopped , we may see that the naso-guttural cavity enlarges as the glottis is closed in that act , producing a partial vacuum in the drums , and therefore from the greater barometric pressure a feeling of tightness upon the membrana tympani , whilst from loss of usual pressure the Eustachian tubes thereupon close more firmly , and the faucial parts swell and stick together .
I can readily distinguish the act of opening the Eustachian tube from all other guttural ones , both by hearing and feeling .
A tearing sound , or an irregular run of clicks , marks a slower , a sharp click a quicker opening of the tube , a sozffle the rush of air through the patent tube , and a small crack the displacement of the membrana tympani .
I frequently perceive these phenomena in deglutition , though , owing to the strong pressure of the current of ejected air in the fauces , more especially in eructation .
Sometimes also in yawning , showing that a sundering contraction of the muscles of the pharynx and palate attends the opening of the tube .
With the tube patent I feel the membrana tympani , as expiration and inspiration alternate the greater amount of pressure in its two surfaces , oscillating from outwards to inwards , as the inner canthus of the eye , as reached by the nasal duct , may be seen to do .
In violent explosive expirations , the strength of the membrane is severely tested ; the mildest speaking , coughing , or sneezing even , is always disagreeably felt thereon .
But to pass to the attendant sonorous phenomena : the rippling of the air in the tube at each elevation and depression of the ribs expresses itself by a souffle , and every word I utter is taken to the labyrinth directly through the tube with a force that proves annoying ; -observations which plainly evince why the Eustachians are usually impervious , and why they almost never open except at that instant of deglutition , or of the reverse act , eructation , which occludes the glottis .
From numberless observations , I am able to affirm that the faculty of audition is not at all deteriorated by patency of the tubes , however the ordinary use of the ear may be perplexed by sounds entering the tube .
Nor does stretching the membrana tympani , by augmenting or diminishing the aerial pressure on its inner surface , enfeeble hearing .
I will now turn to observations made upon my left ear when it was deafened .
I show that the external meatus was unaffected ; and if I rubbed my finger over the skin covering the bone behind the ear , or carried the ticking of a watch to the bottom of the meatus by means of a metallic probe , and then did the like to the other ear , I heard well , and as well upon one as the other .
Hence the labyrinth and acoustic nerve remained healthy , and the drum alone was affected .
Singing noises in the head had been developed just to the same extent as hearing had been blunted , -phenomena that for three weeks before an instantaneous cure remained quite unchanged .
The noises were caused by the circulation of the blood about the drum , for they rose and fell as the circulation was quick or otherwise .
And I was led to the belief that these noises were not created by any morbid change of local circulation , but that , by a morbid change in the acoustic properties of the tympanum , ordinary movements of the blood thereabouts were heard in a multiplied manner ; for the click and souffle from air entering the Eustachian tube , as heard in the healthy ear , were wonderfully magnified in the deaf one .
The louder souffle , that of eructation , normally but very weak , even when the intruding air strongly forces outwards the membrana tympani , in the deaf ear was always a very pronounced bruit .
And a couple of other sounds from distinct sources generated within the site of the membrane are described , which , hardly audible in a normal ear , are loud in an ear thus diseased .
Thus a group of phenomena beckon to the inference , that this deafness had so modified the acoustic properties of the drum , as both to render all sonorous vibrations affecting the air within it by far more audible than before , and all those entering the meatus auditorius externus as much less audible than before .
What physical cause can bring about these inverse effects ? ?
1 .
If the fenestra rotunda be the chief portal for sound , no change at it could render one set of sounds more audible without doing so for the other also .
2 .
If sound be mainly conveyed to the labyrinth by undulatory displacements of the membrana tympani , causing bodily oscillation of the ossicles , the membrane could not be rendered more responsive to aerial waves falling upon one side of it without becoming equally so for those falling upon its other .
3 .
If the fenestra rotunda chiefly afford passage to sound , and the membrana tympani has acquired an abnormally high reflecting power , repelling vibrations that would heretofore have escaped through it from the drum back upon this fenestra , and those that fall upon its outer surface back through the meatus , effects of an inverse kind do result .
This hypothesis , therefore , cannot be rejected without a careful consideration .
Let us inquire , then , what influence the existence of a membrana tympani would , under this supposition , exert on hearing .
Sonorous vibrations impressed upon the walls of the head , that is , of the external meatus , are heard more loudly when we anyhow cover this canal so as to close it , as any cavity when closed resounds like an open one of greater size ( J. Miiller ) .
In again testing this principle , I have used various materials for closing the meatus , have plugged the entrance , and laid the thing over it , and observe always that the smallest orifice in the occluding body detracts from the resonance ; which I know to occur in the confined air , and not in the parietes of the canal , for my deafened ear was deaf to it .
Such experiments , however , do not evince that the membrane aids hearing by resonance , but the contrary .
Dealing with vibrations already existing in the walls of the cavity insulating the air , they do not at all imitate the case of vibrations passing into the tympanum through a medium , the membrane .
As no substance can be applied over the meatus , however it be done , which does not hinder our hearing of external sounds just as much as it occasions resonance of parietal ones , the membrane on this supposition must in some degree or other be a positive detriment to the auditory function .
Besides , were hearing aided by resonance within the drum , a patent Eustachian tube by allowing vibrations to disperse must impair hearing , which I know not to be the case .
Again , if we assume the membrane to but slightly arrest the transition of sound from the outer to the tympanic air , to be , in short , an unavoidable impediment to hearing , fullfilling some non-acoustic purpose , the loss of it would not prove at once , as it does , a serious detriment to hearing rather than some benefit .
I may append too , that were it but a trifling obstacle , the group of sounds occurring within it , so described , should be augmented by resonance in the external meatus , on its outlet being stopped ; yet I can detect nothing of the sort .
Further , I squeezed a plug of chewed brown paper , and one of dry paper , firmly into the bottom of the meatus of the healthy ear , against the membrane , covered the membrane with a stratum of wax , and filled the meatus with water ; but in not one of these experiments were the said group of sounds rendered louder .
So that it appears that the application to the membrane of even a highly reflecting surface fails to intercept and cause to return intra-tympanic sounds , which can only be because the membrane is difficult for such sound to pass through .
But if the membrane highly resists the transition of aerial vibrations , it ( the fenestra rotunda being the chief portal ) is a serious detriment to hearing .
Hence this fenestra cannot be of this acoustic consequence .
And we must have recourse to the only other theory which suggests itself , which is4 .
That the membrane and ossicles form the essential path for sonorous vibrations , which traverse it by the mode of condensation and rarefaction ; that aerial ones impinging upon the outer surface of the membrane easily impress themselves upon its substance , and pass into the ossicles , whilst the inner surface presents a great obstacle to their escape into the air in the drum , and equally repels vibrations that fall upon it from this air .
Thus , when disease nullifies the great reflecting qualities of the inner surface , much of the sound from without passes into the drum and is wasted , or deafness resuits ; whilst much of that in the drum enters the membrane , and some of it finds its way along the ossicles , and noises in the head are engendered .
Now I find that the cutaneous surface of the drum-head admits vibrations from air with very much greater facility than water does , that is , readily ; for on filling the external meatus of the sound ear with water , and then letting it leak out again , I remarked that for more than half an hour afterwards septa of water were constantly forming themselves across the canal and producing much deafness , and then breaking again with a loud noise , and the deafness vanishing .
After some evaporation the following instructive effects alone took place:the membrane would attract a film of water over its surface , and deafness ensue ; but on a gust of air plunging into the drum through the Eustachian tube , the membrane springing outwards with a smart smack , would throw off the fluid , and the hearing as instantaneously be restored .
This would gradually wane away again by the reattraction of the water , to be instantaneously regained again , and so on .
But since the transition is easy between the membrane 's outer surface and air , what has been said above shows that it must be difficult between the inner surface and air , and the statement in ( 4 .
) is demonstrated .
Accordingly the external layer of the membrane is formed of skin , a dry tissue of loose texture , penetrable by air , and coming into intimate relation with it ; whilst the mucous membrane of the drum is , as it were , unparalleled not only for tenuity , but compactness and high vascularity , though it is barely possible to verify the presence of mucous exudation upon it , affording a glassy surface which is a formidable barrier to the passage of vibrations from it to air , and vice versa ; and this is so reflected , that the membrane and ossicles leading to the labyrinth lie without it , confining useful vibrations to their destined path , and excluding hurtful ones from it ; and the mastoid cells help to further stifle such vibrations as by any accident intrude upon the air in the drum .
The membrane of the fenestra rotunda , by its elasticity , protects the acoustic nerve from undue compression , &amp;c. The membrana tympani avails acoustically by its area , whilst its flexibility , the joints in the ossicular chain , &amp;c. , are mere machinery for conveying , under all contingencies , vibrations to the fenestra ovalis , and provision against mechanical accidents .
The structure of the labyrinth admits of explanation , in a great degree , upon like principles .
The personal case of deafness studied in this paper was from a cold draught on the ear , a mere inflammation of the mucous lining of the drum , ultimately forming a layer of dried mucus upon the membrana tympani , which originally involving much air-bubbles , remained very permeable by air , and assimilated acoustically the inner face of the membrane to the cuticular outer one .
The instantaneous dispersion of the noises and deafness was caused by the sudden peeling off of this false cuticle ; whilst a film of water upon the cuticular face assimilates that to the inner one , when the ear excludes both tympanic and outer sounds from the labyrinth .
Deafness produced by disease in the external meatus only yields noises when it propagates irritation so as to excite secretion of mucus on the inner face of the drum-head .
Simple perforation of the drumhead only deafens in proportion to the extent of surface removed .
If there co-exist a more or less fluid discharge from the drum , this spoils hearing by covering the cuticular surface of the membrane , though it may not deviate so much acoustically from that lined by mucous membrane as to very materially damage it .
To remedy such deafness mechanically , we should first essay to rescue the cuticular face from the fluid by placing some material to draw off the discharge from it , so as to keep the membrane fit for its duties , and still exposed to airial vibrations .
If the mischief is so extensive that we are obliged to employ some disc to rest against the remaining ossicles as a substitute for the true membrane , we should try to form one with surfaces acoustically imitating those of the membrane itself .
The paper concludes by pointing out how the various injuries which have been known to occur by disease or otherwise to the different parts of the tympanum , are readily accounted for by the functional hypothesis here submitted .

