]\gt ; Note on Dr. H. A. Wilson 's Memoir " " On the Electric Effect of Rotating a Dielectric in Magnetic Field.\ldquo ; * By S. J. BAlNETT , Palo Alto , California , U.S.A. ( Communicated by Professor Larmor , Sec. .
Received February 6 , \mdash ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) While Dr. Wilson'.s experiments undoubtedly confirm the electron theory of Lorentz , as do the earlier experiments of Blondlot on the motion of air a netic field , to which Dr. Wilson does not refer , he has seriously misinterpreted this in stating that , to it , the electromotive force induced in an insulator dielectric constant moving in a netic field bears the ratio to the electromotive force induced in a moving conductor .
As a matter of fact , it is not the induced intensity or electromotive force which differs from substance to substance , and which differs according to different theories , but the displacement or charge produced by this intensity or electromotive force .
The calculation of the intensity or electromotive force induced in matter by its motion in a magnetic field , the " " motional\ldquo ; intensity or electromotive force of Mr. Heaviside , is very simple on the theory of Lorentz .
Thus , if an electron with charge , a constituent of any kind of atom whatever , moves with velocity in a magnetic field in which the induction is , it will , in accordance with the law of Ampere applied to the convection current , be acted upon by a force B. The force per unit charge upon the electron , or the motional intensity in the moving substance , is thus and is wholly independent of the nature of the ring substance .
Hence the induced or motional electrontotive force , , which is the line integral of the motional intensity , is likewise independent of the nature of the moving substance .
Thus , instead of Dr. Wilson 's equation , we have , the intensity of the netic field , being written for , to which it is equal in magnitude .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 204 , p. 121 .
'Journal de Physique , ' vol. 1 , p. 8 , 1902 .
368 Dr. S. J. Barnett .
Note on Dr. Wilson 's Memovr , [ Feb. 6 , Hence , in place of Dr. Wilson 's equation , we have or , the result which is confirmed by Dr. Wilson 's experiments , our being equal to his When Dr. Wilson 's abstract appeared in America last July , I noticed at once the need for the above correction , but refrained from making it until the appearance of his complete memoir , hoping there to find the derivation of his curious result .
The Jnemoir , however , berives no derivation of the erroneous statement .
It may be of interest to state that in 1902 I started to construct apparatus for an investigation of this subject by a method ifferent from Dr. Wilson 's .
* To avoid ambiguity , let us write the motional E.M. F. according to Dr. Wilson.s theory , and the motional E.M. .
according to .
From these we get relation .
Dr. Wilson 's second equation on p. 123 of his memoir then becomes - ( Wilson ) , or - ( Lorentz ) .
Making the transformations indicated by Wilson , we get - ( Wilson ) , or ( Lorentz ) .
And finally V or ( Lorentz ) .
Now Wilson 's experiments proved equal to which is the same thing as proving equal to .
But , not , is the motional E.M.F. Thus the experiments proved , or , to be proportional to the E.M.F. in any theory and to .
Soc. Proc Juue 2 , 1904 .
1905 .
] of Dielectric in gnetic Field .
369 Lack of funds , however , put an early end to the work , and it has been resumed only lately with the aid of a grant from the Carnegie Institution .
Note on the Preceding Paper .
By Professor , F.RS .
This paper is communicated by request of Dr. Barnett .
The footnote inserted on p. 368 was received on March 23 in reply to a request for further information as to his meaning .
It would seem that objection is taken to Dr. Wilson 's use of the somewhat uous term electromotive force .
It does not appear that Dr. Wilson 's experimental result is disputed , nor is any other theoretical deduction offered in place of his one .
The proposition proved by Dr. Wilson is that rotation of a cylindrical condenser around its axis , in a }netic field , produces the same electromotive effect as if the condenser were at rest , and a potential difference equal to were impressed between its , e.g. , by connecting them through a battery of that electrolnotive force .
In this expression is the Faraday potential-difference thaC would be excited between the coatings of the rotating condellser if they were connected by a conducting wire that moved with them .
Dr. Barnett apparently wishes to omit this factor , and to rectify this omission by making the equal to the difference of potential multiplied by the capacity multiplieoi by If the moving dielectric were air , as in the experiment quoted from Blondlot by Dr. Barnett , the influence of factor of course could not be detected ; the result must then in fact practically be the same , on any theory , as if the dielectric were vacuum .

