23 1894 .
] Mechanical Equivalent of Heat .
various ages , the corresponding line of Table I will give the information , while if the smoothed values are wanted , a similar line in the chart of isogens will give them after being smoothed , not in one dimension only but in two dimensions .
Similarly , as regards the birthrates for a father of any specified age and for mothers of various ages , by following the vertical columns instead of the horizontal lines .
In conclusion , I would remark that , though the method of isogens applied to Korosi 's tables fully discusses the distribution of mean birth-rates , those tables do not enable us to determine the second postulate of paramount importance , namely , the degree of conformity of individual cases to the means of many cases .
We know nothing thus far about the facility of error at the various positions in the chart , whether or no it conforms to the normal law of frequency ; still less , what is its modulus , or whether the modulus is constant throughout the chart or varies in accordance with some definite law .
The answer to these questions admits of being obtained by a moderate amount of work on the original observations , selecting at first a few squares for exploratory purposes , such as are ( 1 ) distributed evenly about the chart , and ( 2 ) contain each of them not less than some 300 observations , and ( 3 ) whose means accord with the smoothed isogens that pass over the squares , thereby affording satisfactory centres of reference .
IV .
" Appendix to a Communication entitled * The Mechanical Equivalent of Heat .
' " * By E. H. Griffiths , M.A. Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received December 7 , 1893 .
Section I. In a communication which I had the honour of making to the Royal Society in the spring of this year , the following statement occurs ( p. 420):\#151 ; " We are ( with the help of Mr. Callendar ) now entering on a careful direct comparison of thermometer E with a new form of air thermometer , which , there is every reason to believe , will give very accurate results , but we are unable to assign any definite limit to the time that this investigation may take .
" A great number of comparisons have been made during the summer of this year by Mr. Callendar and myself between the mer-cury thermometer E mused by me for determining the temperature of the calorimeter , the Tonnelot thermometer , Ho. 11,048 , described in the above paper ( pp. 426\#151 ; 433 ) , the platinum thermometer N , by which the mercury thermometer Em had been previously standardised , * * Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 184 ( 1893 ) , A , pp. 361\#151 ; 504 .
24 Mr. E. H. Griffiths .
Appendix to a Communication [ Jan. 18 , and two air thermometers constructed by Hicks under Mr. Callendar 's direction.* The indications of these air thermometers are independent of external pressure , and no difficulty was experienced in obtaining the temperature of the bulb to 1/ 1000 ' C. The results were , however , not entirely satisfactory .
It was found impossible to maintain the exterior portion of the tank ( where the comparisons had to be made ) at a temperature constant to 1/ 1000 ' C , especially at higher temperatures .
A reference to pp. 374\#151 ; 378 will show that the regulating apparatus was designed to maintain at a constant temperature the interior of the steel chamber there described , and this purpose it fulfilled admirably .
Fluctuations , however , amounting to as much as 1/ 100 ' at 50 ' C. occurred in the surrounding water , and an element of uncertainty was thus introduced into our comparisons .
I am now so modifying the apparatus as to eliminate these fluctuations in the exterior temperature , and thus render the tank more suitable for such observations .
I believe Mr. Callendar proposes to make a communication to this Society in which the details of this comparison will be given , and he has , with this object in view , taken with him to Canada the records of our experiments .
I therefore propose on this occasion to confine myself to results .
I may , however , mention that extreme care was taken with the cleaning and drying of the air thermometers ; observations were made with the thermometers filled with air , hydrogen , and nitrogen , and all the precautions observed which Mr. Callendar 's considerable experience of air thermometers could suggest .
The conclusions , as far as they affect my previous determinations of temperature , are that over the range through which the experiments were conducted ( 14 ' to 26 ' C. ) the limit of error does not exceed 0*003 ' C. of the nitrogen thermometer .
An error of such a magnitude would affect my final value of J by about 1 in 4000 .
Another possible cause of error , mentioned on p. 424 , is the difference caused by unequal lag of the rising mercury thennometer at the beginning and end of the temperature range , and I have pointed out on p. 424 that a possible error of 0*008 ' C. might be due to this cause .
I have recently performed the experiments by which I hoped to throw some light on this point\#151 ; using as a thermometer a naked platinum wire immersed in pentane .
The experiments are difficult to conduct , and I do not regard the results as entirely satisfactory .
They agree with my former experiments in indicating that the lag is greater at the beginning than at the end of the range by a quantity between 0*002 ' and 0*009 ' C. The mean result of my observations gives 0*004 ' C. * For a description of these air thermometers see * Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' January , 1891 .
1894 .
] entitled " The Mechanical Equivalent of Heat " 2a as the difference , which would diminish our temperature range by about 1 in 3000 , and would increase the value of J by a proportionate amount , although it would not affect the temperature coefficients of the capacity for heat of water or the specific heat of the calorimeter .
I do not , however , feel that this point is sufficiently established to make it advisable to apply the correction to the previously published results .
Section IL I regret to state that we have discovered a serious error in the arithmetic .
* On pp. 407\#151 ; 410 is given an account of the comparison of the coils in the resistance-box with the B.A. standards , and Table XI gives in full the numbers actually obtained during the comparison .
In order to simplify our work we constructed a table for our own use which gave the value of each coil in terms of a legal ohm , and afterwards transferred them ( see p. 410 ) into true ohms .
Unfortunately the 10-ohm coil in the bridge arm was entered in this private table as 10'0077 , whereas it ought to have been 9'9977\#151 ; an error of 1 in 1000 , having its origin in a mistake.in addition .
The experimental numbers actually given in Table XI will show that the ratio of the bridge arms was 9,9734/ 997,87 , that is , 0'0099947 , or , if expressed in legal ohms , 9*9977/ 1000'30 instead of 10'0077/ 1000'30 , as given on line 13 , p. 410 .
The mistake is obvious to anyone who compares the numbers given in Table XI with the conclusion drawn on p. 410 .
The whole of the arithmetic was carefully revised by both Mr. Clark and myself , but an error of this kind in simple addition is precisely the one to escape observation .
The annoying circumstance is that a similar mistake in any of the other coils would have had no appreciable effect on our conclusions , but occurring as it did in the ratio of the bridge arms it affects all succeeding tables .
I would venture to add that this incident shows how advisable it is , in work of this kind , to give in full all the experimental numbers on which the conclusions are based .
In consequence of this discovery I have carefully again revised nearly the whole of the calculations , but I am glad to say that with the exception of two or three obvious misprints I am unable to detect any further arithmetical mistakes .
The effect of the correction thus rendered necessary is to decrease the value of R , in all the tables where the reduction to true ohms is given , by 1 in 1000 ; hence the value of T in Tables XXXVII , XL , XLI must be increased in the same proportion .
The resulting correction is a simple one , for , as the value of J varies directly as T , it has only to be increased by 1 in 1000 .
Fortunately the temperatures Mr. G. A. Schott .
On [ Jan. 18 , as obtained by the platinum thermometers are independent of the ratio of the bridge arms , and are , therefore , unaffected .
The values of the temperature coefficients , of the capacity for heat of water and of the specific heat of the calorimeter , remain practically unaltered , as the correction only affects the sixth significant figure . .
The corrected value of J in terms of a thermal unit at 15 ' C. is thus ( 4T940+0-0042 ) x 107 = 4T982 x 107 , and I estimate the limit of error due to the causes mentioned in Section I of this Appendix as +0'0020 .
Hence ( assuming that g \#151 ; 981T7 ) , J = 427'88 kilogramme-metres in latitude of Greenwich .
J = 1403-6 ft.-lbs .
per thermal unit C. in latitude of Greenwich .
J = 779-77 " " F " Y. " On the .Reflection and Refraction of Light .
" By G. A. Schott , B.A. ( Cantab .
) , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , formerly Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , M.A. , F.R.S. Received November 29 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to examine the consequences of supposing the transition between different refractive media to be effected continuously through a thin variable layer , to deduce expressions for the amplitudes and changes of phase of the reflected and refracted light , and to compare them with the results of experiments hitherto made on that subject .
The theories examined are the elastic solid theories , both those assuming large velocities for the pressural wave , including Green 's , Yoigt 's , and K. Pearson 's theories , and also Lord Kelvin 's contractile ether theory , and then the electromagnetic theory , in the form given by Hertz , which , it may be remarked , leads to the same equations as the contractile ether theory .
The medium being continuously variable , the displacements and stresses , or the electric and magnetic force components , are everywhere continuous .
The method thus avoids all hypotheses as to boundary conditions at surfaces of discontinuity .
For convenience , the first constant portion of the medium , from which the incidental light comes , is called the first medium , the second constant part , into which the light is in part refracted , is called the second medium , the thin variable part is called the variable layer , and the arbitrarily chosen planes , which include the whole of the variable layer , are called the boundaries of the layer .
Since at those planes the medium is continuous , the displacements and stresses have the same values on both sides of each plane .

