[ 119 ] VI .
On the Formation of some of the Subaxial Arches in Man .
By George W. Callender , Assistant-Surgeon to and Lecturer on Anatomy at St. Hospital .
Communicated by J. Paget , F.B.S. Received February 17 , \#151 ; Read March 16 , 1871 .
In a previous communication on the formation of the bones of the face* , I described the manner in which the nasal and incisor processes of the maxillary lobes united with the fronto-nasal process , and the way in which the intermaxillary bones were shut off from the front surface of the face .
I also described the ossification of the membrane which surrounds the anterior portion of Meckel 's cartilage on either side , and that of the anterior and mesial extremities of the cartilages themselves .
I now propose to examine the formation of the arches below these structures , commencing with that commonly known as the hyoid .
To simplify the grouping of these several arches I propose to term them subaxial .
The first of the subaxial arches is the fronto-nasal , the basis of which is formed by the trabeculae cranii .
I take the notochord as the central line around which the development of the cerebro-spinal axis progresses .
Now the trabeculae , at first two separate cartilage-rods , grow out beneath ( in man in front of ) the extremity of the notochord .
After the fusion of the trabeculae their double origin is indicated by the median septum growing from their under surface .
They enclose , by being prolonged forwards and downwards , the nasal passages , and they end in the intermaxillary bones .
They are therefore subaxial in relation to the notochord , and conform generally to the plan on which the other subaxial arches are developed , the modifications which distinguish them being due to their terminal position , to the tubular shape of the long nasal passages which they have to form , and to the support which they give to those outgrowths from the cerebral vesicles , the olfactory bulbs and the front portions of the cerebral hemispheres .
The second subaxial arch grows from the lower and outer part of the alse of the sphenoid , and is the one usually described as the maxillary ; it is said not to contain cartilage .
The third subaxial arch is the mandibular ; it is strengthened by rods of cartilage ( Meckel 's ) growing from that in which the internal ear is developed .
Of other points in the formation of this arch , and of the connexions of the fourth arch with the cartilage of the internal ear , I hope to give an account when I have examined the various steps in the formation and growth of the cartilaginous base of the skull .
At present it was convenient to pass them by until I had dissected the structures in the cervical region .
* Philosophical Transactions , 1869 , p. 163 .
R 2 The subaxial arches below the mandibular are the fourth , or lingual ; the fifth , or hyoid ; the sixth , or laryngeal ; and the seventh , which , differing from the preceding in its relation to the notochord , may be named the exoccipital or shoulder-girdle .
There is also an imperfect arch connected with the laryngeal which will be described with it .
The changes which will be described as occurring in the formation of these structures take place between the fifth and twelfth weeks of foetal life ( 30th to 84th day)* .
The Fourth Subaxial Arch\#151 ; the Lingual .
In a foetus less than " 4 of an inch in length this arch is recognized as a small bud-like process below the mandibularf ; in a foetus measuring -45 this bud has grown out to the middle line , and has joined its fellow below the mandible ( Plate I. fig. 1 , l ) .
The mandible , rather less than T8 from side to side and '03 deep , is yet membranous , and is closely connected by its lower border with the lingual arch ; but in the midst of the connecting membrane two distinct lines of dense tissue are distinctly traced , meeting in the middle line .
On either side of this they swell up into a pointed mass , and here the tongue is rapidly formed ; so rapidly , indeed , that whilst in a foetus of '45 its position is indicated only by an ill-defined thickening of the tissue above the centre of the arch , in another foetus of *55 it is seen completely formed .
From the eighth to the ninth week ( foetus *9 ) the lingual arch , distinct from the hyoid , grows into a rounded cord which begins to contain cartilage .
It is attached by a globular head to the cartilage for the internal ear below and behind the root of Meckel 's cartilage ; its anterior extremity descends to the next lower arch , becomes slightly swollen , and loses its distinct character in the structures passing into the base of the tongue ; so that in a foetus of 1*2 this extremity is no longer recognized , although the rising of its tissue into the root of the tongue is still traceable ( Plate I. fig. 2 , l , fig. 3 , l ) .
The lower border is now , by the anterior extremity , in close relationship with the upper surface of the hyoid and contains cartilage , the future lesser horn of the hyoid bone .
At this stage , ninth to tenth week , the connexion of this arch with the cartilage at the base of the skull is as follows : the globular head is still distinct , and seems partially cut off* from the basal cartilage ( Plate I. fig. 3 , 11 ) .
From this point , for -05 of an inch forward , the rod is formed of cartilage ; the remainder ( *07 long ) , except the extreme anterior portion already spoken of , is a dense membrane .
In the opposite direction ( Plate I. fig. 3 , 11to 111)there is continued from the rod a ridge of membrane , lying on and becoming identified with the cartilage of the base ; and this , after ascending for *05 of an inch , turns forward and is continuous with membrane , a descending spur from which forms a distinct ring , which extends to that in which the squamous and zygomatic bones are ossified , and which appears to be continued into the membrane in front of Meckel 's cartilage ( Plate I. fig. 3 , m c ) , now ossified as the inferior maxilla ( Plate I. * The specimens on which the dissections were made are in the Museum of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
The figures indicating the size of each foetus give its length in inches and tenths of an inch .
t Here and after the relations are given as for human anatomy .
SOME OF THE SUB AXIAL AllCHES IN MAN .
fig. 3 , m ) or mandible : Meckel 's cartilage is seen growing out beneath the membrane and then passing under cover of the lower jaw .
In a foetus 1*8 long , tenth to eleventh week , the lingual arch consists of five portions , \#151 ; ( 1 ) cartilage from the base of the skull , ( 2 ) a short piece of membrane , ( 3 ) a second very small and short rod of cartilage , these three structures having a length of '09 of an inch ( Plate I. fig 5 , l to l* ) , ( 4 ) a long strip of membrane , and ( 5 ) a nodule of cartilage at the anterior extremity of the arch , which is connected with the hyoid below .
The entire length of these structures is T9 of an inch .
The Fifth Subaxial Arch\#151 ; The Hyoid .
On a deeper plane and under cover of the parts in which the lingual arch is formed , a layer of membrane , comparatively broad , is seen growing out from the base of the skull in connexion with that part in which the basioccipital ossification takes place .
In a foetus *45 long it has the form shown in Plate I. fig. 1 .
This mass widens as it descends into the cervical region and towards the middle line , and divides into two chief parts ; the higher of these is the hyoid arch .
This arch is at first represented by the upper portion of the layer of membrane , and by a bud of this membrane from the upper and mesial extremity of either side piece ( Plate I. fig. 1 , h ) .
These buds meet in the middle line and there unite , so that in a foetus *9 long they form a distinct rod , now cartilaginous as far back as the point * , fig. 2 , rather less than *1 of an inch long , where it is connected with the mass of membrane continued down to the larynx .
The band of tissue connecting this arch with the thyroid cartilage at the point h* , fig. 2 , is now just discernible ; in the next dissection ?
that of a foetus 1*2 , it is distinctly formed .
The higher portion of this arch , towards the base of the skull , forms the middle constrictor muscle , which in a foetus 1*8 can be traced from the base into the posterior portion of the cartilage of the arch , the greater or posterior horn of the hyoid bone .
The posterior portion of this arch , therefore , is membranous , and developes into the middle constrictor muscle ; the cartilage in the anterior two-thirds ( *06 long in a foetus of *9 , and IT in a foetus of 1*8 ) consists of two portions , the one the greater horn , the other the body of the hyoid bone .
The Sixth Subaxial Arch\#151 ; The Laryngeal .
Whilst the upper portion of the layer of membrane from the basioccipital cartilage grows forward to form the hyoid arch , the lower division , first distinctly separated from the upper by anterior bud-like outgrowths , forms a mass in the cervical region which in a foetus of *45 is about *05 of an inch in length ( Plate I. fig. 1 , lg ) .
This mass , uniting with a corresponding growth from the opposite side , forms an irregular line in the middle of the neck , all trace of which line rapidly disappears .
At first it lies flat upon the vertebrae , but quickly thickens , and in a foetus *9 forms a thick block advanced to the level of the anterior extremity of the lingual arch ( Plate I. fig. 2 , th , cr ) .
As it thickens and rises to the front , a passage is left behind it leading from the mouth to the oesophagus , and common to the pharynx and to the larynx .
At this period the membrane consists of three layers .
The inner of these folds in and forms a septum , which divides the larynx from the common pharyngeal tube , and growing up below the root of the tongue forms the epiglottis .
These growths are completed in a foetus '9 of an inch long .
The outer layer is that in which the constrictor muscles originate , whilst in the anterior portion of the arch there is an intermediate or third layer of dense granular and subsequently cartilaginous tissue , in which are formed the several cartilages of the larynx , excepting the epiglottis .
The upper portion of this arch , therefore , forms the inferior constrictor muscles , and at this early period of development blends with that tissue in which the middle constrictor of either side is developed ( Plate I. figs. 3 , 4 , 5 ) .
The remainder of the arch becomes , like the hyoid , cartilaginous in the greater part of its extent .
In a foetus *9 the outline of the thyroid cartilage is distinct , and also that of the front and sides of the cricoid , but posteriorly the horns of the thyroid are imperfectly recognized , the upper one not being as yet cartilaginous , whilst the arytenoid and cricoid cartilages are not yet completely separated from the thyroid behind ( Plate I. fig. 2 , , cr , Thus far these structures whilst bent over towards the middle line are on either side perfectly flat , and altogether form a mass *06 long and *05 wide .
Their continuity with the pharyngeal wall is easily traced .
In a foetus 1*2 the separation of the principal cartilages is complete and the cornua of the thyroid are formed ( Plate I. fig. 3 , th , cr , Although the first granular masses of cartilage appear in the thyroid and in the fore part of the cricoid , yet the chondrifica-tion of the membrane extends so rapidly to the posterior parts of the cricoid and to the arytenoid , that no practical distinction can be made between the times of these quickly consecutive changes .
The next step in the development of this arch consists in the curving of the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages into the septum which separates the larynx from the pharynx .
In a foetus 1*4 ( Plate I. fig. 4 , larynx *9 long and T wide ) the turning in of these structures towards the middle line is evident ; and in a foetus 1*8 ( Plate I. fig. 5 , larynx T2 long and T2 wide ) is being completed .
At this stage I notice a narrow edge of membrane turning down from the greater horn of the hyoid arch , and joining the inner and upper surface of the arytenoid cartilage ( Plate I. fig. 5 ) .
The appearances of the fissures marking the divisions between the laryngeal cartilages are drawn in figs. 2 , 3 , 4 , \amp ; 5 .
The Thyroid Body .
The external part of the lower half of the laryngeal arch developes into an accessory structure , the thyroid body .
From the seventh to the ninth week it may be recognized as a distinct mass , having the characters which I have described in a previous communication* ; it lies by the side of the arytenoid and cricoid cartilages , from which it can easily * Proceedings of the Eoyal Society , vol , xvi .
p. 183 .
SOME O THE STJBAXIAL AECHES IN MAN .
be detached , and grows downwards and forwards to meet the corresponding structure from the opposite side in the middle line ( Plate I. fig. 2 , fig. 3 , Although it is difficult to assign to it any particular function , it may be noticed that it is in relation with the respiratory tract in its development , and is virtually a rudimentary branchial arch * ; and further , that it forms a girdle beneath which the air-tube is continued , and perhaps guided , as the trachea into the thorax .
The Trachea .
Whilst the cartilages of the larynx are acquiring their permanent characters , the trachea is formed by a continuous growth from the membrane below the cricoid cartilage .
I have not as yet definitely traced out the formation of the bronchi ; there is , I believe , no doubt but that they result from the division of the trachea .
The Seventh or Exoccipital Arch\#151 ; The Shoulder-girdle .
At first it occurred to me that this should be termed a subaxial arch , and it still seems desirable to number it as following the sixth or laryngeal outgrowth of membrane from the base of the skull .
But exception might be taken to the term subaxial , as defined to refer to the position of an arch with reference to the notochord , when applied to this structure ; for the membrane from which the clavicle and scapula take origin grows out from the cartilage of the base of the skull in a line from the extremity of the membrane for the hyoid and laryngeal arches , below the lingual arch , and all along the side and hind plate in which the exoccipital and supraoccipital ossifications commence .
From these the membrane of this arch is separated with some difficulty , leaving a rough edge .
Thus whilst the [ membrane for the hyoid and laryngeal arches grows from the basioccipital region and is subaxial , that for the shoulder-girdle extends from the lateral and posterior portions of the occipital cartilage , having also for a short distance relations with the cartilage for the structures connected with the internal ear ; it therefore is best described as an exoccipital arch , growing from the cartilage of the base of the skull , but at the side of and behind the axis line represented by the notochord .
The growth of this membrane is extremely simple .
Dissecting at about the thirty-fifth day ( foetus *45 ) , it is seen as a fold of membrane extending from the root of the mandible on either side downwards , its connexion with the mandible being formed by * With , reference to this point I would refer to the remarks which I made when examining the relations of this body .
" One cannot but be attracted by this connexion with the trachea , on which tube the thyroid ( even if it be not developed from the membranous air-tube ) buds and attains some little size , a formation reminding one of that of the lungs coming out from the front wall of the oesophagus , that is , from the trachea , and of the view of Mr. Simon , as afterwards expressed by the editors of Cuvier respecting the thyroid , ' C'est la fausse branehie , branchiole des poissons .
' Indeed , from its relation to the air-tube during the early period of life , or in fish to the vertebral or hyoidal extremity of the gill , from its curious alternation with the supplementary gill of Broussonet , and from its structure ( Kolliker ) , it may be not inaptly referred to as a pseudo-lung rather than as an associate with the thymus and the so-called ductless glands."\#151 ; Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xvi .
p. 185 .
the integumental covering .
If this fold is everted , a band of tissue can be traced to an angle above , where it comes into contact with the well-defined tissue in which the larynx is to be formed ( Plate I. fig. 6 ) .
On the inner surface of the fold two ridges ( Plate I. fig. 6 , c , s ) are imperfectly marked , but at the lower end of the membrane they are more distinct , \#151 ; one ending in a rounded border ( and here the clavicle is developed ) , the other , which lies behind the first , descending a little lower and being slightly bent with the convexity of the curve backwards ( in this the scapula is formed ) .
In a foetus more advanced ( *55 ) , after removal of the integument and of the upper thoracic extremity , the plate of membrane is more clearly defined .
It grows from the occipital region , and above is in close relationship with the membrane for the laryngeal arch ( Plate I. fig. 7 ) .
Traced downwards , it sends forward a comparatively delicate layer of tissue ( Plate I. fig. 7 , c ) , which extends to the superior extremity of that ( st ) in which the sternum and the costal cartilages are being formed .
At about the middle of the lowest border of the arch a rounded mass , which is granular , and in which cartilage is appearing , forms a considerable elevation ( s ) , pushed forward as it is by the ribs which have now grown up beneath it ( r ) .
This rod is curved , as shown in fig. 7 ; its superior and anterior extremity is the acromion , its inferior extremity is the coracoid process ; and nearly midway between the two a bud-like outgrowth ( which seems to originate in a folding over of the integument ) , the thoracic extremity , has been removed in the specimen from which the drawing ( fig. 7 ) was made .
The changes thus far related consist in the division of the membrane growing out from the occipital region into two portions , the anterior of which developes into the hyoid and laryngeal arches , whilst the posterior division descends and forms a broad layer in the neck ( covered by integument ) , which eventually forms the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles of either side , and behind joins above in the middle line the tissue from the opposite side at the ligamentum nuchee : below it sends out two processes ; one of these grows forward to form the clavicle and to join the sternum , the other curves downwards and forms the scapula , and from this there grows out the thoracic extremity .
It will be noticed that these outgrowths , including the lingual , correspond not inexactly with the course of the cerebral nerves distributed below the mandible , \#151 ; ( 1 ) the hypoglossal , ( 2 ) the glossopharyngeal , ( 3 ) the pneumogastric , and ( 4 ) the spinal accessory .
In a foetus *9 long the clavicle has ossified in its middle third , the remainder is cartilaginous ; it is *09 of an inch long .
When the ossification of this bone is described as taking place in membrane , it is to be understood that only the earliest formed portion of the bone is so ossified ; the greater part of the clavicle , about two-thirds of its length , ossifies in cartilage , which rapidly takes the place of the original membrane , and of which only small plates are left at either end of the bone in a foetus T2 ( in Plate I. figs. 8 and 9 , the earliest membrane ossification and the extension of the ossification in cartilage are shown ) .
By the growth of the sternum to the middle line and by the attachment to it of the SOME OF THE SUBAXIAL ARCHES IN MAN .
clavicle , which is also connected with the first rib , the anterior portion of the seventh arch is brought from an oblique into a line nearly horizontal ( in Man ) , and at this period the portion of membrane above it , which at first lies close along the upper border of the clavicle , becomes detached from the outer half of this border , or is united only by a thin layer of tissue .
The tissue which remains connected with the inner half , or thereabouts , of the clavicle forms the sterno-mastoid muscle .
The inner extremity ( Plate I. fig. 7 , a)of the rod of cartilage ( which is the scapula ) being connected with the outer extremity of the clavicle is brought into the same horizontal line with that bone and forms the acromion .
The coracoid extremity of the scapula ( Plate I. fig. 7 and following , co ) becomes more curved upon the acromial , to the level of which it eventually reaches ( chiefly by the straightening in a downward direction of the acromion ) , and thus the entire scapula forms a slightly spiral curve , and the root of the coracoid portion becomes attached to the clavicle by a strong fibrous band .
In this spiral curving of the rod of cartilage which forms the scapula the upper surface of the coracoid corresponds with the upper surface , its internal surface with the anterior , and its external with the posterior border of the acromion process .
By the same curving of this portion of the arch the lower portion of the posterior border of the membrane ascending to the occipital region is bent or folded inwards ; and this seems to explain the connexions acquired by the levator anguli scapulae muscle in the cervical region , and its insertion into the end of the plate of the scapula which grows from the root of the coracoid process .
The growth of the plates of the scapula takes place from the posterior border of the rod of cartilage , the form of the bone being determined by the curve of the primitive rod .
Following the posterior border the acromion plate is seen ( fig. 8 , growing backwards , whilst from the remainder of the rod to the root of the coracoid the larger plate bounded by the glenoid border is developed .
Scarcely any growth has yet taken place from the coracoid ( fig. 8 , co ) , but in a foetus T2 ( fig. 9 , co ) it is beginning to throw out its plate , and in a foetus T8 ( fig. 10 , co .
ja ) this plate is being rapidly completed .
The scapula is thus built up in the three-sided prismatic form referred to by Professor Flower* .
Later , comparatively , in the formation of the scapula ( foetus 1*8 , fig. 10 ) the glenoid cavity grows out from the rest of the cartilage , and thus leaves a considerable notch between it and the acromion , and the scapula now acquires its permanent characters .
Up to this point no ossification is observable , nor have I recognized any segmentation of the primitive rod .
When ossification commences it begins , as shown by Mr. Parker , in the central portion of the rod , as is the case with the clavicle , and , as with the clavicle , it leaves two cartilage ends , which are the acromion and the coracoid process .
* Osteology of the Mammalia , p. 334 .
S Explanation of the Plate .
PLATE I. Pig .
1 .
Subaxial and exoccipital arches in a foetus ( *45 of an inch long ) , x 6 .
Fig. 2 .
Lingual , hyoid , and laryngeal arches , with the thyroid body , in a foetus *9 of an inch long .
X 6 .
Fig. 3 .
The same arches as in fig. 2 , with the addition of the mandibular .
The divisions of the hyoid and laryngeal arches are shown , and also the connexion of the lingual arch with cartilage and membrane at the base and side of the skull .
From a foetus 1*2 of an inch long .
X 6 .
Fig. 4 .
The same arches at a more advanced stage , from a foetus 1*4 of an inch long .
X 6 .
The anterior portion of the lingual arch has been removed .
Fig. 5 .
The same structures , including the lingual arch , in a foetus 1*8 of an inch long .
X6 .
Fig. 6 .
Ridges seen on the inner surface of the exoccipital arch in a foetus *45 of an inch long .
X 6 .
Fig. 7 .
Outer surface of the exoccipital arch , showing the division of its lower border into the clavicular and scapular rods , and the growth beneath these of the sternum and ribs .
From a foetus *55 of an inch long .
X 6 .
Fig. 8 .
Dorsal and ventral surfaces of the scapula of a foetus *9 of an inch long , x 6 .
Fig. 9 .
The same surfaces of the scapula of a foetus 1*2 of an inch long .
In this and in the preceding figure the anterior surface of the clavicle is also represented .
X 6 .
Fig. 10 .
Dorsal surface of the scapula of a foetus 1*8 of an inch long , showing the outgrowth of the glenoid cavity and of the coracoid plate .
X 6 .
Explanation of Abbreviations .
a. Acromion .
are .
Arytenoid cartilage .
c. Clavicle .
c m. Constrictor muscles of pharynx .
co .
Coracoid process .
co.p .
Coracoid plate of scapula .
cr .
Cricoid cartilage .
g. Glenoid cavity and border .
h. Hyoid arch .
h* .
Posterior extremity of the cartilage of the hyoid arch .
l. Lingual arch .
11 .
Basal extremity , or head , of lingual arch .
III .
Membrane connected with basal extremity of lingual arch .
I*.Second cartilage of lingual arch .
Ig .
Laryngeal arch .
m.Mandible .
m c. Meckel 's cartilage .
r. Ribs .
s. Scapula .
st. Sternum .
th .
Thyroid cartilage .
th .
b.Thyroid body .
r Callender Foetus '45 x 6 771/ ~L Tig 1 Foetus 9 x 6 \#166 ; Fig II Pta !
PravsMDCCCLXXI Plate th- .
b Eg III Foetus 1 \#166 ; 4 x 6 Fig Foetus 1 .
8 x 6 Fig V. G- W. C. ad mat .
del , W. H We sley , Auto -lath .
Jlaclure , Macdonald .
ScMacgregor , Inth , London .

