331 The Electrical Conductivity of , and the Rate of Sterilisation of Bacteria by Electric Currents .
By W. M. Thornton , D.Sc .
, D.Eng .
, Professor of Electrical Engineering in Armstrong College , Newcastle-on-Tyne .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received January 12 , \#151 ; Read March 14 , 1912 .
) 1 .
Introduction .
Electrical currents , both alternating and direct , retard the growth of bacteria in liquids through which they are passed , and under certain conditions cause complete sterilisation .
The cell-contents are coagulated by the heat generated , or by electrolytic effects within or without the cell .
There is the further possibility that protoplasm may be disintegrated by the mechanical action of an alternating current upon molecular charges , similar in effect to that of rapid vibration , which is known to check the growth of , and even to kill , bacteria .
Whether the retardation of growth is regarded as the result of changes in the cell or liquid , the effect is largely controlled by the relation between their electrical conductivities .
When these are the same the current flows as if the cell were not present , otherwise the current-density in the bacteria is greater or less than that in the liquid , according as their conductivity is respectively the greater or less .
In order , therefore , to control effectively the bactericidal action of electrical currents in a liquid , the relative conductivities of the liquid and the contained bacteria should be known .
A full summary of the industrial applications of electrical currents in organic processes is contained in Lafar 's * Technisches Handbuch der Mykologie.'* In most of the cases referred to the currents were weak and the voltage gradients in the liquid low .
The special feature of the present work is that the voltage and current were taken to their highest limit , under the condition that the temperature did not exceed 30 ' C. , with the testing cell cooled by immersion in running water .
The ' Comptes Rendus * of April , 1896 , contained a short account of observations by S. Lortet on the orientation of bacteria in water through which an alternating current was passed .
It was stated that only living bacteria orientated , an observation which , if it had been confirmed , would have had bearing on the relation between electricity and life .
This is , however , not the case , for bacteria which have been boiled for several hours orientate 'Vftli .
LXXXV.\#151 ; B. * 1899 , vol. 1 , p. 455 .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
[ Jan. 12 , more freely than before .
Lortet 's observations would be at once explained if his emulsion had been sterilised by the addition of an ionising liquid , such as perchloride of mercury , the conductivity of which is greater than that of the germs .
The fact is that dead or living bacteria orientate equally well .
[ April24 th.\#151 ; In this paper the cause of the observed orientation is considered to be the influence of the electric field upon charges induced on the surface of the bacteria .
The surface density o- of charge on the interface between two media of resistivities pi , and dielectric constants k\ , k2 , with a current density i normal to the surface , is given by the relation 47rcr = ( kj.pi \#151 ; k2p2)i .
Thus , when k is about 80 , as for water , p 100 for .
saline solutions , and i 1 ampere per square centimetre , a is of order unity.* This is comparable with the surface density on metallic conductors charged to several thousand volts in air , and is much greater than that on a surface between good conductors .
The dielectric constants of saline solutions have still to be experimentally determined ; the product kp can , however , be found from existing data in terms of the refractive index .
The dispersion terms in the Helmholtz-Ketteler formula for the dispersion of light contain the number of electrons 1ST in unit volume as a factor , and since electrical conductivity is also proportional to N , the sum of these terms can be written bj p in low frequency fields .
Thus when the formula is applied to solutions of varied conductivity n2 = k + bj p , or kp \#151 ; n2p\#151 ; b , n being the refractive index .
From tabulated dataf the conductivity of saline solutions is nearly proportional to the percentage g of added salt , and we may write gp \#151 ; a , a constant .
Schiitt has shownj that for these solutions the change of refractive index is also proportional to the added salt , so that ( \#151 ; = a constant , c. Thus p \#151 ; ac/ ( n\#151 ; no ) and kp \#151 ; acn2/ ( n\#151 ; n0 ) \#151 ; b. The values of n2/ ( n\#151 ; no ) for different strengths of solution are as follows:\#151 ; 9 .
n^jin \#151 ; 1 1010 5 204 10 103 30 36 The product kp therefore decreases as salt is added .
In the expression for \lt ; r the current density is proportional to the strength of the solution , so * See Jeans , 4 Electricity and Magnetism/ p. 336 .
t See Whethara , ' Theory of Solution , ' p. 413 .
X See Landolt and Bornstein , ' Tabellen , ' p. 684 .
The Electrical Conductivity of Bacteria .
1912 .
] that , on the whole , if the effect were determined by transfer across one surface only , a should be higher in strong solutions .
But , in the case of a freely suspended body , there will be no orientating couple when the conductivities of the liquid and body are the same , for the current flows through both at the same density everywhere .
It is then reasonable to conclude that orientation ceases in a solution having the same conductivity as that of the contained bacteria .
It has been suggested that , since the observations of orientation had been made on thin layers of liquid , it might equally well be explained by electrical endosmose .
This is to some extent met by the fact that orientation is quite as marked in deep hanging drops , and in cells several millimetres deep , filled with distilled water .
Observations are difficult in these cases on account of continuous thermal streaming in the liquid .
It can , however , be readily shown that endosmose is only of importance at low frequencies , and that at frequencies of several thousand a second it entirely disappears .
Orientation was first observed in high frequency fields , and is quite different in character from the rigid oscillatory motion caused by endosmose at low frequencies .
At 80 periods a second , vigorous movement of all floating matter was observed .
Elongated particles instantly moved into line with the flow , and spherical particles , such as carmine , were carried to and fro with an amplitude of about two of their diameters , thus resembling short rods in the field of vision .
The characteristic feature of the effect was the extreme rapidity with which orientation took place .
On substituting an induction coil , with a condenser across the hammer make and break , for the transformer previously used the effect entirely ceased , though the voltage across the drop was now about four times as high .
Purified asbestos was then ground to such a degree of fineness that particles were just visible with a No. 4 ocular and 1/ 12 inch objective .
These remained in perfect definition when the current from the induction coil was passed through the liquid .
Bacteria which were almost invisible in low-frequency fields owing to the rapid oscillatory movement , remained in perfect definition in the coil current and were at the same time actively orientated .
It may then be said that the mechanical movement of the liquid as a whole under the cover-slip has an amplitude of less than microscopic dimensions at the frequency of the high-tension side of an induction coil , under a gradient of about 1000 volts per centimetre in the film .
As a further test , a strong emulsion of B. coli communis being under observation with many hundred slightly motile bacteria in view , the voltage from the coil was applied , and all were seen to be orientated .
The primary Prof. W. M. Thornton .
[ Jan. 12 , current was then gradually reduced and the control of the bacteria observed to be weaker , until a point was reached where , though the majority lay in the same direction , at least one-third did not appear to be under control .
On raising the voltage all again came into line with the field .
] 2 .
Method of Measuring the Conductivity Bacteria .
From the nature of the case it would be very difficult , if not impossible , to measure the conductivity of bacteria at all accurately by any of the methods at present in use , for example , by passing a current through a fine tube filled with a paste of organisms .
Since , however , there is no couple when the conductivities of a rod and the liquid around it are the same , it is only necessary to make trials in a series of liquids of gradually increasing or decreasing conductivity , and to note that in which a rod inclined to the field ceases to show orientation when the current is made or broken .
To make the measurements of resistance in the present case , a series of 12 solutions of sodium chloride in water was made ranging from 0 0016 to 0 04 grm. of salt per cubic centimetre , of which the corresponding conductivities were measured .
A drop of the weakest of these was placed upon an ordinary glass microscope slide .
To this was added a few bacteria from a pure culture , and a cover-slip dropped over it .
The drop was large enough for liquid to exude from the edges of the slip to permit the introduction of platinum wires flat along the edges of the cover-slip in the liquid .
The bacteria then being quickly under observation in the microscope , an alternating current was passed and any movement of orientation noted .
When they turned into line with the field their conductivity was taken to be higher than that of the liquid .
A fresh drop would then be taken from the next higher strength solution , or if the orientation was vigorous from the highest , and the process repeated until that solution was found in which the movement ceased .
In the case of high-resistance bacteria a difference of 0-5 mgrm .
of salt per cubic centimetre in the solution could be detected in this way .
In most of the experiments a small laboratory induction coil was used .
The voltage between the platinum poles when the current was passing was at least 100 , giving a gradient in the liquid of 50 volts per centimetre .
This was sufficient to show orientation in distilled water .
For demonstration it is more satisfactory to use a quarter inch spark induction coil , the voltage of which falls to a few thousand when connected across the drop .
The following table gives the results of the measurements on bacteria which are to be found commonly in water or milk .
A few others are given of which there were active growths available at the time .
The culture 1912 .
] The Electrical Conductivity of Bacteria .
335 medium is mentioned because of the great difference between cultures on or in different media , in the case of B. typhosu , for example .
The chief points established by the values found here are:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The electrical conductivity of any organism is not independent of the culture medium used .
( 2 ) Bacteria which have their habitat in the animal have higher conductivities than those usually found external to it .
( 3 ) The former have , on the whole , a higher conductivity than blood .
Table I.\#151 ; Specific Resistances of Bacteria .
Ohms per cm .
cube .
Culture medium .
| B. coli communis 140 Agar , rather dry .
" from fresh sewage 82 Agar , moist .
\#187 ; ) ) 60 Broth .
B. typhosus 250 Agar , from broth .
200 " from agar .
\#187 ; 105 Gelatine , from broth .
" 43 Agar .
a ... ... ... ... .* ... . .
120 Boiled 1 hour , 200 ohms before boiling .
) ) 35 Autoclaved 5 hrs .
, " B. enteritidis sporogenes 200 Agar . !
Sewage streptococcus 45 !
Proteus vulgaris 86 j ) | B. violaceus 340 ) ) !
Micrococcus prodigiosus 340 ) ) B. subtilis 350 ) ) B. anthracis . .
200 B. acidi lactici 200 yy 9f 80 Broth .
In order to see how this variation depended upon the resistances of the media themselves , the following measurements were made:\#151 ; Table II.-\#151 ; Specific Resistances of Culture Media , Milk , and Water Ohms per cm .
cube .
Nutrient beef agar 60\#151 ; 70 j Beef gelatine , 10 per cent 115 Turnip gelatine 275 4 per cent , gelatine in water 290 Broth 70\#151 ; 104 No two samples from different stocks the same .
Separated by standing .
Blood serum 96 200 I Fibrin 245 Prof. W. M. Thornton .
[ Jan. 12 , Table II\#151 ; continued .
Ohms , per cm .
cube .
Fresh milk , 1 to 2 hrs .
after milking ... ) ) M ... \#187 ; \#187 ; ... Fresh cream .
233 240 252 252 557 j^From different sources .
1 Cream with acid reaction 480 Separated milk 210 Milk with slight acid reaction 196 Sour milk 180 Sour and semi-solid 169 Tap-water , with bacteria added Stream water 1400 1300 Town sewage 1250 Comparing Tables I and II , it will be seen that typhosus from gelatine has practically the same conductivity as the culture medium , and that that on agar , though at first high , falls even below that of the medium , suggesting that there is marked absorption of conducting salts by organisms grown on agar .
3 .
Influence of Sub-culturing on Conductivity .
It was recognised from the above figures that , to obtain perfect comparison of the conductivities of various organisms , they should be taken from cultures , not only of the same age , but of the same order of sub-culture .
An organism which has been many times sub-cultured could not in general be expected to have quite the same conductivity as one fresh from the animal .
The following determinations were made to decide this point .
The organism used was B. coli communis from house sewage , and the cultures were all in broth from the same stock :\#151 ; Ohms per cm .
cube .
Fresh from the animal First sub-culture Second " Third " Fourth , , Fifth " Sixth " Seventh " 95\#151 ; 90 60 45\#151 ; 40 40 35 35 35 35 There is , therefore , a rapid increase in conductivity due to the change of habitat from the body to broth .
After the fourth sub-culture a steady state 1912 .
] The Electrical Conductivity of Bacteria .
337 is reached .
The ratio of the specific resistance of the medium to that of the organism in broth , taking a mean value of 87 ohms per centimetre cube for the latter , is 87/ 35 , that is 2'5 .
Taking the value for blood , which is also Waller 's value for muscle , as that for the host as a whole , the ratio is 200/ 90 , that is 2*2 .
The numerical coincidence is probably accidental , but it suggests that there may be , within limits , an adaptation of the organism to its surroundings , such that its electrical conductivity is always the greater .
4 .
The Influence of Unidirectional Currents .
On Water.\#151 ; In the experiments about to be described all possible care was taken to control the temperature rise consequent upon the passage of the current .
With the exception of those on the influence of alternating current on milk , the temperature of the liquid did not rise above 30 ' C. In the case of water a long and narrow form of sterilising cell was used , to keep the cell cool and at the same time to avoid the influence of any gas liberated at the electrodes when using direct current .
Two No. 1 microscope cover-slips , each 2'5 cm .
wide and 9 cm .
long , were cemented together with paraffin wax to form a V trough 015 cm .
wide , open at the top .
Narrow strips of platinum foil were inserted at each end , the greatest distance between them being 4'5 cm .
Even with the highest unidirectional pressures used , i.e. 480 volts , across the cell , and a current of 0*5 amp\amp ; re per square centimetre in it , the fine bubbles of gas which escaped slowly from the electrodes could not be traced more than 0'3 cm .
on the surface towards the centre of the cell .
The stream of cooling water was on a level with that inside .
The resistance between the poles with tap water in the cell was about 50,000 ohms .
Quantities of S c.c. of an emulsion of B. coli communis in non-sterilised tap water were introduced into the trough and exposed to a voltage gradient of 130 volts per centimetre for various intervals of time .
With young fresh cultures an exposure of one minute caused slight but perceptible diminution in the number of colonies on a Petri dish culture compared with a control plate .
An exposure to direct current for five hours at a voltage gradient of 210 per centimetre and a current density of 0'3 ampere per square centimetre reduced the colonies in a ratio approaching 100 to 1 .
After 24 hours ' exposure one colony developed , the control plate having a growth too dense to be counted with certainty .
The most efficient form of cell for use with direct current is one in which oxygen liberated at the positive pole bubbles through the liquid in escaping , lor this purpose a cell with a short distance between pole plates placed in a horizontal plane in the liquid is convenient , taking a large current at low Prof. W. M. Thornton .
[ Jan. 12 , voltage .
The effect is similar to that produced by the passage of ozone through water , and being chemical rather than electrical is not considered here in detail .
It provides , however , an effective means of sterilising potable water , using carbon electrodes , which might be of service where electrical power can be had at low rates .
On Milk.\#151 ; In order next to examine the influence of direct current on milk , and as before to keep the gases at the electrodes from the central portion , a glass cell was made consisting of two circular pole-pits 4 cm .
diameter , joined by a tube 1*5 cm .
diameter .
Flat platinum foil electrodes were used , the distance between them being 10 cm .
Filled with fresh milk and connected to a 100-volt supply from secondary cells , a current of 0T5 ampere passed .
The current density at the poles was then 0*03 , and at the centre of the connecting tube 0T ampere per square centimetre .
After a few minutes the milk in the neighbourhood of the positive terminal began to curdle , whilst that at the negative pole did not , though the surface became covered with a fine froth .
After a quarter of an hour the milk in the positive pole-pit was a complete mass of hard curds , that at the negative a yellowish whey with no sign of curdling .
In the centre tube the milk remained fresh and sweet to the taste ; the taste of the curdled milk was strongly acid , and of the whey unpleasantly metallic .
These effects were due to direct ionisation , not to the passage of the current , or to the gases liberated , for on passing oxygen or hydrogen from storage cylinders for long periods through milk no curdling or separation resulted , and the milk in the centre tube carried the whole of the current without change , even with 500 volts across the cell .
The formation of curds at the positive pole is in agreement with Hardy 's conclusion* that coagulation is set up by contact with ions of the opposite sign to that of the liquid .
In the present case the negative charge , though this is not so uniformly distributed as in blood cells , can be directly observed under the microscope , using a thin layer of milk and a strong electric field.f These results show that unidirectional currents can be passed through milk without curdling it except quite near to the electrodes .
As a practical process of sterilisation this would , however ; be very inefficient on account of the large proportion wasted , and to attempt it at all , voltages of the order of 1000 to 2000 would have to be employed .
* See Whetham 's ' Theory of Solution , ' p. 399 .
t See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , B , vol. 82 , p. 638 , 2 , for the method .
1912 .
] The Electrical Conductivity of .
339 5 .
The Sterilisation of Water by Alternating .
Several observers working with weak current densities have stated that low frequency alternating currents do not affect bacteria , * and there do not appear to be any recorded cases of sterilisation by them other than of d'Arsonval and Charrin , f who found that B. in a flask of liquid placed in the core of a coil carrying an alternating current lost its chromo-genic power after 20 minutes ' exposure to the induced magnetic field .
Whether this was owing to the weak eddy currents set up in the liquid or to the action of the field was not determined .
It is , however , improbable , in view of the high current densities required to produce marked effects , that the necessarily feeble eddy currents could have been the cause , which must rather be regarded as a direct action of the magnetic field upon the molecular structure of the cell contents of the particular organisms used .
Strong alternating magnetic fields do not appear , from a few trials , to have any characteristic effect on bacteria in general .
In making comparative experimental trials of the rate of sterilisation in this way , it is very necessary to use bacteria from the same culture , if possible from the same colony , both on account of the variation of the conductivity discussed in the next section , and of a difference found between bacteria from active and poor growths in their rate of sterilisation by electric currents .
B. coli communis , many times sub-cultured , was exposed to an alternating current at a frequency of 80 per second and at a constant pressure gradient of 65 volts per centimetre in common salt solution having a resistance of 50 ohms per centimetre cube , in one of 200 ohms resistivity , and in one of 500 ohms .
They were each exposed for three hours .
The ratios of the number of colonies per unit area on the control plates to that on the exposed - plates were respectively 150 , 11*0 , and 17'5 .
The rate of sterilisation in this case of constant voltage therefore falls rapidly as the resistance increases .
The ratio of the reduction ratio to the current is the same in the first and last of these .
The resistance of the bacteria was not measured in every case , but may be taken to be between 35 and 60 ohms per centimetre cube .
If , instead of having the same voltage gradient in each trial , the current-density is kept constant , results are obtained which show very clearly the greater influence of higher voltages .
Exposures were made in 50 , 200 , and 1400 ohms solutions , with a current-density of 0'3 ampere per square centimetre in each case .
The reduction ratios were respectively 9 , 13 , and 26 .
The bactericidal effect , therefore , does not depend only upon the * Zeit ( ' Journ. Amer .
Med. Assoc. , ' Nov. , 1910 ) found that weak alternating currents favoured growth .
t 'Comptes Eendus de la Soc. de Biol. , ' 1893 , p. 467 .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
[ Jan. 12 , quantity of electricity passing , but also on the influence of the field , which , though rapidly alternating , may , when high , cause more ionic movement through the cell walls of the organisms , or may act directly by breaking up their protoplasm .
The voltage gradient used in the later experiments approached unity in electrostatic measure .
The force on a charge ( 4-6 x 10-10 E.S.U. ) has the same arithmetical value as e in dynes , in unit field .
This gives , assuming one such charge upon a section of 3 x 10-8 cm .
diameter , an average molecular diameter , a stress of 635 grm. per square centimetre , which is enough , when rapidly reversed , to mechanically disintegrate most soft organic tissues , and presumably protoplasm .
That it is possible to sterilise water by alternating currents at high voltage gradient and current density was shown by exposure for 19 hours at a voltage gradient of 150 per centimetre and a current density of 0-3 amp\amp ; re per square centimetre .
One colony developed as compared with a dense growth on the control plate .
A comparison of the effects of direct and alternating current when precautions are taken to avoid the influence of electrolytic products shows that they are very similar .
The conditions as to length and section of cell and to constant cooling must be observed .
The results in tap-water were so little different from those in weak salt solutions that the latter may be taken as representative of the degree of sterilisation in tap-water .
The effect of time of exposure in the case of B. acidi lactici was examined by comparing plates sown with emulsion after 4 , 10 , and 20 minutes ' passage of the current through it , with a control plate .
The numbers of colonies are respectively 8000 , 300 , and 20 , the growth in the control entirely covering the agar .
This organism is therefore more sensitive to the current than B. coli communis .
Later results with older cultures do not show so marked a difference , though it is always similar .
The chief interest of this lies in the fact that with a current density of 0'5 amp\amp ; re per square centimetre in cold water , 20 minutes does not cause complete sterilisation , whereas with new milk a shorter exposure does so .
One reason for this , apart from heating and cooling , may be that in the latter case the bacteria were just beginning to grow , and were therefore more sensitive to the influence of the current .
6 .
The Sterilisation of Milk Alternating Current .
For the purpose of exposing milk to alternating currents two large platinum crucibles were arranged , one inside the other , to form a cell , the distance between them at the bottom being 0*7 cm .
The interspace could be filled through a hole in the ebonite cap with a known quantity of liquid .
The Electrical Conductivity of Bacteria .
1912 .
] A thermometer was afterwards inserted , and could be readily removed to take samples with a pipette .
It was found necessary , on account of the heat produced by the passage of the current , to pack the outer crucible in ice , or , when the stronger currents were used , in a freezing mixture .
The temperature was never allowed to rise above 65 ' C. in one set of trials or 55 ' C. in another .
Working at the lower current densities it was possible to prevent the temperature exceeding the above limits for the whole time of exposure , without stopping the current ; but with the higher currents this could not be done , and the time at 0-3 ampere per square centimetre , for example , of three to four minutes , was made up of half-minute runs with the same time for cooling .
About 70 exposures were made , of which 55 are given for the 65 ' C. limit .
Cultures were taken as sterile when they showed no growth after 24 hours ' incubation at 37 ' C. O 09 The results given previously of prolonged exposure to alternating currents at current densities of the same order as the above prove that sterilisation obtained by a few minutes ' exposure , accompanied by rapid changes of temperature , must be regarded as thermal rather than electrical Prof. W. M. Thornton .
[ Jan. 12 , in origin .
It will , however , be seen that the form of the curve follows closely a rectangular hyperbola with a vertical axis displaced to about 0'05 ampere per square centimetre .
There is , according to this , a current density at which no sterilisation occurs , however prolonged the exposure , which may explain Zeit 's results , the warming action of the current encouraging growth .
On the other hand , the fact that the curve is hyperbolic in contour would suggest that the result depends in some measure upon the quantity of electricity passed through the liquid , since this is the same for each point on the curve , if reckoned from the displaced vertical axis .
It .
is probable that the ultimate cause of the results recorded here is not simple , but is in part thermal , and in part direct electrical action upon the molecular structure of the organism .
That it is largely thermal is shown by the fact that longer time is required for sterilisation when the temperature is kept at a lower maximum .
On the other hand , if it were entirely thermal , the time should be inversely proportional to the square of the current , which is not the case under the conditions of the experiment .
7 .
The Action of Ultra-violet Light on Bacteria .
The results of Sections 4 , 5 , 6 , show that there is not a wide difference between the bactericidal influence of direct and alternating currents when the frequency of the latter is low .
When , however , bacteria are exposed to electrical oscillations at their highest possible frequency , namely , that of ultra-violet light , the power required for sterilisation is so small that the result can only be caused by selective absorption of energy , either by the organism as a whole , or by its molecular structure .
Exposure of B. typhosus in a thin hanging drop of water to strong polarised ultra-violet light causes no marked orientation , which might be expected to occur if the resonance were with the cell as a whole , for the free period of electrical oscillation on a rod is not the same longitudinally and transversely , and the bacillus would be forced , as it is in lower frequency currents , into such a position that the energy absorbed would be greatest .
Under favourable conditions , with bacteria fresh from the animal , feeble though clear orientative response to the stopping and starting of polarised ultra-violet light has been obtained , but from the jerky type of movement , distinct from Brownian movement , it would appear to have been derived from stimulus of the flagella rather than to be an orientation by electromechanical forces .
The bactericidal maximum found by Marshall Ward was at a wave-length of 4300 tenth metres , corresponding to a frequency of 7 x 1014 , in the low violet .
If another maximum should ever be found near a wave-length of 2730 , it would clearly point to the action being molecular .
The frequency of rotation of an electron doublet 1912.1 The Electrical Conductivity of Bacteria .
343 in an atom is of the order* 33 x 1014 a second .
An electric charge rotating in an orbit in an alternating field of force is accelerated when the frequency of the latter agrees with , or is an odd sub-multiple of , the frequency of rotation .
Thus a rotating electric charge in an atom would be eventually split off by resonance when the alternating field had a frequency of 11 x 1014 , corresponding to the third sub-multiple , or 6'6 x 1014 , the fifth ; this is the lower limit of the violet part of the spectrum , at which the bactericidal effect ceases .
It is now suggested that Ward 's lower maximum of 7 x 1014 may be the result of resonance with the fifth sub-multiple .
The occurrence of another maximum at the higher frequency\#151 ; which should be more clearly marked\#151 ; would definitely decide this and the nature of the whole effect .
8 .
Summary and Conclusion .
The electrical conductivity of bacteria can be measured by observing their orientation when an electric current is passed through a liquid containing them .
The values found range from 35 to 350 ohms per centimetre cube , and depend upon the nature and state of the culture medium .
The results of sub-culturing are found to be that the conductivity of the bacteria increases at each step , reaching a steady value at about the fourth sub-culture on agar .
Water containing added B. coli communis can be completely sterilised by direct currents in several hours at 0*3 ampere per square centimetre .
Alternating currents sterilise water nearly , if not quite , as well as direct currents having the same current density .
In order to obtain well-marked and constant results , it is necessary to use current densities of the order of 0*3 ampere per square centimetre , and to have a form of cell with a thin film of liquid which can be readily cooled .
Milk is curdled by direct current at the positive pole and thinned at the negative pole .
It can be sterilised , without " skin " forming , by the passage of alternating current through it , this being largely thermal .
The cause of the bactericidal action of light is suggested to be syntony between it and the frequency of electronic movement in the protoplasm .
For the rapid sterilisation of liquids in bulk , such as sewage or potable water , the use of an ozone spray is to be preferred to direct electrical action .
When , however , it is required to control bacterial growth in liquids over long periods without change of temperature it can be done by the passage of alternating electric current , or of direct current where electrolytic effects are not important .
In either case , in order to obtain marked bactericidal effect it * See W. Sutherland , ' Phil. Mag. , ' Sept. , 1901 , Series 6 , vol. 2 , p. 273 , and J. H. Jeans , ibid. , Nov. , 1910 , vol. 1 , p. 422 .
344 Dr. D. Ellis .
[ May 17 , is necessary to work at such high current-densities that external cooling is required to control the temperature of the cell .
The preliminary investigation of the conductivity of bacteria and their behaviour in ultra-violet light was made in the Thompson-Yates Laboratories of the University of Liverpool in the summer of 1901 .
The author is in particular indebted to the late Sir Hubert Boyce for instruction and encouragement in the earlier work , and to Professor Hutchens , of the University of Durham College of Medicine , in the later stages .
An Investigation into the Life-history of Cladothrix dichotoma ( Cohn ) .
By David Ellis , Ph. D. , D.Sc .
, F.RS .
E. ( Communicated by H. W. T. Wager , F.R.S. Received February 27 , \#151 ; In revised form May 17 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1912 .
) [ Plate 8 .
] The name Cladothrix dichotoma was first applied to this organism by Cohn in 1873 .
In 1875 he also founded the genus Streptothrix to include an organism ( S. Foersteri ) which differed from Cladothrix mainly in the possession of a mycelial habit .
In 1887 the genus Actinomyces was also instituted by the same writer , to include the newly discovered bovis .
Whatever may be the value of the distinction made by Cohn between Streptothrix and , there is no doubt whatever about the clearness of the line of separation which he set up between these genera and Clad .
Unfortunately , later writers have used the term Cladothrix to indicate not only the only organism belonging to the group , but also species belonging to Streptothrix .
As examples may be mentioned the organism described by Cienkowski ( 3 ) in 1877 , which he describes as having a branched mycelial habit .
The same mistake was made by Winter ( 21 ) in 1884 .
Influenced , doubtless , by these descriptions , Mac^ ( 14 ) in 1884 denied the separate identity of Streptothrix and Cladothrix .
In his work he describes the characteristics of , and gives , under this name , precisely those defined by Cohn as belonging to the genus Streptothrix .
The confusion by this time had become fixed , and we find the same mistake in later writers .
Thus Gunther and Rullmann ( 10 ) , in 1896 , describe as Cladothrix odorifera what is obviously a Streptothrix .
Again , Acosta and

