286 Dr. G. Johnstone Stony .
Table Y.\#151 ; Saturation-Pressures of Steam .
t. 8-554i !
/0 .
\#151 ; 4 *561 F(0 ) .
+ ( pc-p'c ' ) .
miO d0\#151 ; dh/ 8 mR P- Reg- nault .
Diff. o 0 0 0 0 0 4 " 66 4-60 0-18 20 0 -5838 -0 0049 + 0 '0003 0 17 *68 17 -40 0-26 40 1 0932 -0-0177 + 0-0009 0 55-55 54-91 0-20 60 1-5413 -0-0367 + 0*0020 0 149-63 148-80 0-12 80 1 -9387 -0 0603 + 0*0039 0 355-30 354-63 0-04 100 2 -2932 -0-0872 + 0*0066 -0 *0001 760 -00 760 -00 0 00 120 2 -6120 -0-1169 + 0 *0104 - 0 *0002 1491 -4 1490 -5 0-02 140 2 -8998 -0-1488 + 0 *0152 -0 0005 2716-5 2717 -9 0-02 160 3-1612 -0 1817 + 0 *0211 -0*0008 4657 4652 0 05 180 3-3990 -0-2163 + 0 *0279 -0 0012 7546 7537 0-05 200 3-6170 1 - 0 2514 ___ + 0-0357 -0*0018 11684 : 11664 0-08 Regnault were calculated .
Taken in conjunction with the differential throttling experiments , and with the direct measurement of the specific heat by the electrical method , this is very strong evidence that Regnault 's formula for the .
total heat is incorrect , and that the values , of the total heat and latent heat given in Table III , and supported by the experiments of Griffiths and Joly , should be accepted in its place .
" Note on Inquiries as to the Escape of Gases from Atmospheres .
" ' By G. Johnstone Stone y , M.A. , Hon. D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received and Read June 21 , 1900 .
We have now three investigations which profess to supply information about the escape of gases from atmospheres .
Two of them , those of Messrs. Cook and Bryan , reason forward by the help of the kinetic theory of gas from the supposed causes ; the third , which is that preferred by the present writer , reasons backward by the help of the same * theory from the observed effects .
Mr. Cook 's investigation , which will be found in the Astrophysical Journal ' for January , 1900 , seeks to compute the proportion of mole- -cules which can attain the speed requisite for escape by means of the formula which Maxwell published in I860 , assigning the proportion of On Inquiries as to the Escape of Gases from .287 particles whose speed lies between v and v + dv , in a system of colliding particles intended to represent an isotropic portion of gas .
Professor Bryan 's investigation* is based on the investigations made since 1866 into the way in which energy tends ultimately to be partitioned among the various motions possible within a self-contained dynamical system of bodies .
The system need not be isotropic , since the bodies may be moving in a constant field of force .
An inquiry Jby the present writer into Mr. Cook 's method of dealing with the problem is attempted in the May and June numbers of the ' Astrophysical Journal ' for 1900 , and in the present paper a similar attempt is made with reference to Professor Bryan 's .
Both Mr. Cook and Professor Bryan predict the proportion of molecules which can escape from an atmosphere by deducing the proportion from its supposed causes , and in this respect are in contrast with an investigation previously published , which sought to ascertain from the observed effects of escape where and on what scale it has in fact taken place .
( Se.e memoir by the present writer in the ' Scientific Transactions of the Royal Dublin Society , ' vol. 6 , Part 13 , or in the ' Astrophysical Journal ' for January , 1898 .
And for further evidence that helium is escaping from the earth , see 'Nature ' of the 24th May , 1900 , p. 78 .
) Where , as- in the present instance , the a priori and a posteriori methods have led to inconsistent numerical results , there must be a mistake or mistakes somewhere , and it is incumbent upon us to search till these are detected .
If they can be found and corrected an important advantage will be gained .
Professor Bryan , at the end of his letter in 'Nature ' of the 7th June , 1900 , indicated one place where a mistake may have been made , viz. , in the assumed relation between temperature and the kinetic energy of the translational motions .
Another mistake may perhaps have been made in assuming the legitimacy of treating the partition of energy when molecules move in a ' field of force , as though the only partition to be considered is between these molecules , whereas no field of force can exist unless it has been produced by some physical agent , upon which every motion that goes on within the field must react .
In consequence of these reactions no field of force in which any motion occurs can be accurately constant , and a partition of energy based upon the supposition of its constancy is a theorem in rational dynamics , but has no counterpart in nature .
Thus , in the case of the earth 's atmosphere , the anisotropic condition of its outer layers is due to the field of force which exists in the neighbourhood of the earth j and when we are obliged to take into account this anisotropic condition , as we must when dealing with the escape of gases \ from atmospheres , this is to be done ( when we are treating the problem as one of partition of energy ) by including as molecules between which the partition has to take effect not only the gaseous molecules , * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' April , 5 , 1900 , p. 335 .
288 Dr. G. Johnstone Stony .
but also all the other attracting molecules which provide the field of force .
[ So again with reference to the never-ceasing turmoil which goes on in the atmosphere , which near the surface of the earth exhibits itself in tempests , thunderstorms , and other phases of weather , and which in the upper regions includes phenomena still more extensive and swift .
It is manifest that these events increase the opportunities which gaseous molecules have of escaping from the earth , and that accordingly they must be taken into account , either explicitly or implicitly , in every valid inquiry as to the rate of escape .
To take them into account in an investigation based on the partition of energy , we have to extend that partition to whatever agency produces the turmoil .
Now the activity within the atmosphere ( and in fact almost every molar activity upon the earth other than the little which is attributable to tidal action or to such minor agencies as earthquakes and volcanoes ) is caused by the shiftings about of energy which come in between the continuous advent of energy by radiation from the sun , and its continuous escape from the earth by radiation into space .
Hence to render an investigation by the Boltzmann-Maxwell law valid it is necessary to extend the partition of energy beyond the atmosphere\#151 ; first to the solid earth , so as thereby to take account of the anisotropic character of some of the atmospheric strata ( which facilitates the escape of gas ) ; and secondly to embrace at least the sun and the aether between the earth and sun , so as thereby to take into account the turmoil in the upper regions of the atmosphere ( which further increases the rate of escape ) .
It seems to be only when these extensions shall have been effected that a generalised law such as the Boltzmann-Maxwell law for the partition of energy between the various degrees of freedom can become competent to furnish any information with reference to the rate at which gaseous molecules actually do escape from the earth.\#151 ; July 17 , 1900 .
] Then as regards temperature .
The temperature of a solid is in reality twofold ; it is either its radiation temperature or its conduction temperature .
These are physically distinct , although in all but some exceptional cases they are so nearly proportional to one another that they may be given the same mathematical expression .
So , again , when dealing with gases we do well to keep in mind the essential distinction between radiation temperature and what may be called convection temperature .
The temperature of an isolated gaseous molecule moving by itself through space is of the first kind only , and depends exclusively on the energy of the internal motions\#151 ; those motions within the molecule which enable it to absorb or emit radiant heat\#151 ; and it is in no aegree affected by the kinetic energy of the translational motion of the molecule j whereas if the same molecule form part of a gas , it meets with encounters with other molecules or with the walls of a containing On Inquiries us to the Escape of Oases from Atmospheres .
289 vessel , and at each such encounter there is a partition of energy between the translational and the internal motions , and in consequence of this the kinetic energy of the translational motion becomes a part of what determines that average power of absorbing and emitting radiant heat which ( when estimated over a time embracing a sufficient number of encounters ) is the proper definition of the radiation temperature of the molecule .
Accordingly the average kinetic energy of the translational motions of the molecule enters into its mathematical expression .
If the gas be dense , encounters are frequent , and A the time requisite for the averages , may be brief .
In this case the radiation temperature of a molecule , while the gas is undergoing some change in its condition , is predominantly the outcome of its encounters , and depends mainly on the molecules that surround it ; whereas if the gas be very much attenuated , then the radiation temperature of the molecule during a period of transition will depend mainly on what influences then reach it from the surrounding aether , and will be but in a subordinate degree affected by the encounters to which the molecule at about that time happens to be subjected .
This is a matter which needs to be very fully taken into account when we attempt to estimate the escape of molecules from the earth 's atmosphere , inasmuch as a large part of the heat radiated by the sun to the earth is absorbed by the gaseous molecules which happen at the time to be moving about in those strata of the atmosphere from which alone there can be any effective escape .
Accordingly it will need to be carefully scrutinised whether this has been either explicitly or implicitly taken into account in the attempts which have been made to determine a priori the rate of escape .
When the molecules of a gas or of a mixture of gases move m a field of force such as that surrounding the earth , convection currents-can exist , and the term temperature as applied to the gas becomes ambiguous .
It may have either of two distinct meanings , one of which has reference to the transport of heat by convection and by the consequent sweeping of successive portions of gas against bodies immersed in it , and the other has reference to the exchanges of heat by radiation with those or with more distant bodies .
These are different physical events , and the assumption that they stand in a fixed ratio to one another is convenient , but is often not true .
It is probably legitimate to regard it as approximately holding good in a gas which has nearly reached a final , le .
, an unchanging condition , and where the problem with which we are dealing does not need our making any closer scrutiny than as to what on the average happens to a sufficiently large swarm of molecules within a sufficiently long duration ; but it is not true while gas is passing through transition stages , nor is it true of individual molecular events or of small swarms of events , even m gas which has reached its final state .
VOL. LXVII .
Y 290 Dr. Gr .
Johnstone Stony .
Now , none of the gases of the atmosphere have even approached any such state .
Changes incessantly go on in the open air at the bottom of the atmosphere , and the extent and abruptness of the changes that as incessantly go on in its upper regions are probably greater .
Again , the consequences of cumulative effects arising in the illimitable trains and combinations of encounters that are taking place , and of associated events in the aether , will also need to be either explicitly or implicitly taken into account in any valid investigation of the escape of gases from atmospheres by the deductive method .
All the circumstances that have been referred to would have to appear among the data of an ordinary dynamical investigation of the escape of an individual molecule from an atmosphere , if such an investigation were possible ; and the claim of a generalised theorem like that of the partition of energy to render it unnecessary to go into these details , ought to be carefully scrutinised .
In one case at least the claim does not appear to stand this test , viz. , in reference to the supposed legitimacy of the assumption that the field of force surrounding the earth is constant .
Though its variations are minute they are none the less real , and are due to interactions between each gaseous molecule and all the molecules of the solid earth , as real as are the interactions between gaseous molecules when they encounter , and as much entitled to be taken into account , when we seek to carry on the investigation in the region of generalised propositions .
It should be kept in mind that in reference to what happens within this region , the plea of being so minute as to be of negligible amount is not admissible .
Whether a very small factor may or may not be neglected must be determined independently in each individual case ; and in the above instance the decision is that it may not be neglected .
Other corrections might be suggested along with the principal ones noticed above\#151 ; that relating to the two kinds of temperature , that relating to the field of force , and that relating to turmoil in the atmosphere ; but what seems most to be wanted is that we should recognise that any law for a distribution of energy within the atmosphere by itself , can only come approximately into practical effect after the lapse of a sufficient duration , and throughout a column of the atmosphere from which accidents are excluded ; and that this law will not be the Boltzmann-Maxwell law , which may not be so restricted .
Thus , let us imagine a cylinder like a great Tower of Babel , reaching to the top of the atmosphere , with walls competent to intercept dynamical , electrical and all other extraneous influences other than gravitation .
The air within this tube would consist of molecules , moving in a field of force caused mainly by the earth 's attraction and rotation , and this column of air might perhaps after some such period as a month , a year , ' a century , or a thousand years nearly attain such a distribution of On Inquiries as to the Escape of Gases from Atmospheres .
291 energy as that indicated by some law .
But if while this process is maturing a wind overthrows the tower , sweeping away the air it contained and substituting other air under new conditions , and subject to all the chances of uprushes , downrushes , thunderstorms , auroras , cyclones , cloud , sunshine , rain , \amp ; c. ; then after all or any of these or of the like accidents , the tower would have to be rebuilt before any portion of the atmosphere extending from the bottom to the top could find itself in a position even to commence the first steps of an advance towards at some future time complying with the law .
The supposition then that the Boltzmann-Maxwell law can be restricted within our existing atmosphere would appear to be a mistake ; and if so the inferences from that law are not part of a real interpretation of nature .
It need not therefore be matter of surprise that , in the case of helium , the facts of nature seem to negative those inferences .
The weather which will prevail over the earth this day month will be the outcome of the present molecular state of the earth , and of the molecular events which will happen in the meantime ; but our power of stating in mathematical form the existing state of the earth , and our knowledge of molecular physics , are not such as would enable us to predict that future weather by the a priori or deductive method of proof .
The difficulties in this case are easily seen ; and they are instructive , since the escape of gas from the earth depends on phenomena which are probably as complex as those which determine the weather and as little amenable to treatment by the deductive method .
Any such distribution of energy as that assigned by the Boltzmann-Maxwell law would , if it could be realised , be brought into existence by the gradual effacement of excesses which had previously existed ; from which it would appear to follow that excesses prevail in our existing atmosphere greater and more numerous than could exist in an ideal atmosphere that obeyed that law .
It is probable , therefore , i that in our actual atmosphere there are more opportunities for the I escape of molecules than there would be in the ideal atmosphere\#151 ; | , a conclusion which accords well with the fact that the actual rate of | escape exceeds those computed by Professor Bryan and Mr. Cook .
\ ( See 'Nature ' of May 24 , 1900 , p. 78 , second column .
)

