On the Phosphoric Acid and Potash Contents of Wheat Soils .
11 " A Chemical Study of the Phosphoric Acid and Potash Contents of the Wheat Soils of Broadbalk Field , Bothamsted .
" By Bernard Dyer , D.Sc .
, F.I.C. Communicated by Sir J. Henry Gilbert , F.B.S. Received November 9 , \#151 ; Read November 15 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) In the ' Journal of the Chemical Society ' for 1894 ( vol. 65 , ' Transactions ' ) , there appeared a paper by the author , " On the Analytical Determination of probably available ' Mineral ' Plant Food in Soils , " in which the use of a 1 per cent , solution of citric acid was proposed as a means of approximate differentiation between the total and probably available phosphoric acid and potash , the method proposed being the result of an attempt to imitate , in the solvent , the acidity of root-sap , based on a preliminary examination of the acidity of 100 specimens of flowering plants of some twenty natural orders .
To test the method , it was then applied to samples of the soils of the various barley plots in Hoos Field , Rothamsted , kindly placed at the author 's disposal by the late Sir John Laws and Sir Henry Gilbert .
The method , having yielded results fairly consistent with the greatly varying mineral history and known fertility of these various soils , has now been applied by the author to the investigation of the soils of a number of the Wheat plots of Broadbalk Field , also kindly placed at his disposal by Sir John Laws and Sir Henry Gilbert on behalf of the Laws Agricultural Trust Committee .
Twelve representative plots were selected , and the samples examined include not only the surface soils to a depth of 9 inches , but also , for each plot , the second and third consecutive 9 inches of subsoil .
The samples were drawn on the completion of the fiftieth season of continuous wheat growing , but earlier sets of samples , of both soils and subsoils , taken in 1865 and 1881 , were also simultaneously examined .
The present paper gives an account of this work .
It includes a summarised history of the manurial treatment and crop yields of each plot at the different periods , and gives , for each sample of soil and subsoil\#151 ; fifty-one in all\#151 ; the results of determinations of total phosphoric acid and of potash soluble in hydrochloric acid ; and also of phosphoric acid and potash soluble in a 1 per cent , solution of citric acid .
The differences between the total percentages of phosphoric acid in different soils , unmanured and variously manured , correspond fairly well with their history ; but in the absence of a knowledge of such history , these differences would not suffice to give any indication of the profound differences known to exist in the phosphatic condition and fertility of the soils .
The relative proportions of citric acid 12 Dr. Bernard Dver .
Chemical Study of the Phosphoric soluble phosphoric acid , however , appear to afford a striking index to the relative phosphatic fertility of the soils .
In the subsoils , the irregularities and variations in the natural and original phosphoric acid of the subsoils themselves are such that the total percentage tells us nothing ; while the citric acid results frequently show striking and consistent differences , and are also of considerable interest when studied in connection with the problems of root-range and subsoilfeeding , which are discussed in examining the results of the individual plots .
In the surface soils , the average ratio of phosphoric acid , on the plots manured with superphosphate and ammonium salts , with and without various additions of alkaline salts , to that in plots not manured with phosphates for fifty years , was P65 : 1 , while the citric acid soluble phosphoric acid ratio for the same groups was 5-46 :-l .
On the two dunged plots the ratio of total phosphoric acid to that of the plots not phosphatically manured is 1*78 : 1 and 1 *36 : 1 respectively ; while the corresponding ratios for citric acid soluble phosphoric acid are 6*83 : 1 and 3-91 : 1 .
The probable limit denoting phosphatic deficiency for cereals seems to be , as deduced from this investigation , between 0-01 per cent , and 0-03 per cent , of citric acid soluble phosphoric acid in the surface soil .
That is to say , a percentage as low as 0'01 seems to denote an imperative necessity for phosphatic manure , while as much as 0-03 would seem to indicate that there is no such immediate necessity .
For root-crops .\#151 ; more especially turnips\#151 ; the limit would probably be higher .
The results , generally , show that by far the greater proportion of unconsumed manurial phosphoric acid , though originally water-soluble , is accumulated in the surface or first 9 inches , but that in the case of dung there is considerable descent into the second and third 9 inches , and that , in the case of superphosphate accompanied by constant dressings of potassium , sodium and magnesium salts without nitrogen ( full supply and small utilisation ) , there is evidence of a tangible descent into the second and even the third 9 inches .
In the ease of the chemically manured plots , not only is the greater part of the calculated accumulation found by analysis in the surface soil , but a large proportion of it is found in a condition in which it dissolves in a weak solution of citric acid .
This reagent also enables us to trace qualitatively the descent alluded to in the subsoils .
Potassium , sodium , and magnesium salts have a distinct influence in the retention of the phosphoric acid in a less fixed and presumably more available condition , the effect increasing as the saline applications are greater .
The superabundance of phosphoric acid estimated to have been supplied in dung for fifty years is less satisfactorily accounted for than is that on the chemically manured plots ; and even allowing or the difficulty of accurately estimating the phosphoric acid in the dung , it seems probable that there has been a considerably greater descent Acid and Potash Contents of Wheat Soils at 13 from the surface soil into the subsoil than on the chemically manured plots , probably accompanied by fixation of some portion in an unavailable state .
Strong hydrochloric acid , as a solvent for potash in soil analysis , is shown to be practically useless as a gauge of potash fertility where there is an abundance of total potash in mineral combination , as silicates , \amp ; c. No concordant results are obtainable except by working under the strictest arbitrary conditions , and the results , even when concordant , have little meaning apart from an independent knowledge of the history of the soil .
With this knowledge the results are interesting , but in its absence are of little use except in extreme cases .
The results obtained by citric acid , however , are strikingly instructive and consistent .
To illustrate this , it may be stated that the ratio of the average quantity of hydrochloric acid soluble potash in the surface soil of three potash-dressed plots to the average quantity found in seven plots not dressed with potash was T20 : 1 .
The citric acid soluble potash ratio , however , was 6*75 : 1 .
The plots dressed with dung for fifty years and nine years respectively gave , as compared with the same seven non-potash plots , hydrochloric acid soluble potash ratios of T27 : 1 and T23 : 1 , while the citric acid soluble potash ratios were 10-67 : 1 and 9'17 : 1 .
Probably when a soil in the surface depth contains as much as 0-01 per cent , of citric acid soluble potash , the special application of potassium salts is not needed .
The largest accumulation of unused manurial potash , whether applied as dung or as potassium salts , is in the surface soil ; but a large proportion is also found by citric acid in the second and even in the third 9 inches .
The subsoil accumulation is most evident in the dunged plots , and on the plot which , in addition to potassium salts , has received superphosphate with sodium and magnesium sulphates , but without nitrogen ( abundant supply and small utilisation ) .
Both sodium and magnesium salts , in presence of phosphates and nitrogen , have exercised a distinct influence in increasing the proportion of citric acid soluble potash in all depths on the plots on which no potash has been applied for fifty years , and which still maintain a higher yield of potash in their crops than that given by the plot with superphosphate and ammonium salts alone , though the equivalent of the potash added originally has been practically exhausted .
Furthermore , sodium and magnesium salts , used in conjunction with potassium salts , have caused a larger retention of potash in a citric acid soluble condition than when potash has been applied without them , although the potash yielded in the crops has been greater under the influence of the other alkalies alluded to .
It is usually supposed that potash is pretty fairly retained by the surface soil of land containing , like the Rothamsted land , a fair pro- 14 Proceedings , February 7 , 1901 .
portion of clay .
That this is the case , as compared with sodium salts , is beyond doubt ( see paper by the late Dr. A. Voelcker , " On the Composition of the Waters of Land Drainage , " 'Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England , ' 1874 ) ; but the series of analyses of the Broadbalk subsoils that has now been made by means of weak citric acid solution , shows that potash , though " fixed " relatively to soda , is far more migratory than phosphoric acid , and descends much lower into the subsoil .
At the same time it appears probable that a portion of it passes into a fixed and stable form of combination , from which weak citric acid fails to dislodge it .
The results yielded by the samples of soil and subsoil taken from the same plots at the different periods afford instructive comparisons , notwithstanding the age of the earlier samples at the time of their examination , which might have been expected to be responsible for considerable modifications in the condition of the less stable chemical compounds contained in them .
In consequence of the death of Her Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria , which took place on the 22nd of January , the meetings of the Society were suspended , by order of the President , until after the funeral of Her late Majesty , which took place on the 2nd February .
February 7 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The President , in moving that a dutiful Address of Condolence and Homage be drawn up and presented by the Council of the Society to His Most Gracious Majesty the King , said:\#151 ; " The crape upon our Mace would remind us , if indeed we needed to be reminded , of the sorrow which is uppermost in every heart .
AA e mourn to-day the greatest Queen the world has known\#151 ; truly great by the supreme example She set , in Her own person , of sustained nobility of purpose , and of devotion to duty , and by the influence of Her wise and understanding heart , for the world 's good , upon the councils of the Empire .
We mourn more than a great Queen\#151 ; a gracious Lady who by the brightness of Her domestic virtues , and Her rare power of kindly sympathy with Her subjects in all their joys and sorrows , had in a real sense become the Mother of Her Peoples .
As Fellows of this Society , we mourn further a Sovereign Patron , who by Her enlightened encouragement and protection , has made possible through the sixt\

