]\gt ; XXVI .
On the Dynamo-electric Current , on Means to Improve its Steadiness .
C. WILLIAM SIEMENS , D.C.L. , F.R. Received March l , \mdash ; Read March 4 , 1880 .
[ PLATES 40-52 .
] ON the 14th February , 1867 , I communicated a short paper to the Royal Society , the accumulative or dynamo-electrical principle of action , the conception of which I attributed to my brother Dr. WEBNER SIEMENS .
When the paper was read , another paper followed by Sir CHARLES WHEATSTONE ( sent in on the 24th February ) also describing this principle of action , thus showing that the same line of thought had occupied that eminent philosopher .
In illustration of my paper I exhibited a machine of my design , embodying the accumulative principle of action , which furnished abundant evidence of the powerful nature of the current that could be thus produced .
It consisted of two horseshoe electromagnets , between the poles of which a SIEMENS armature could be made to rotate , the machine being furnished with a handle or pulley for that purpose .
A commutator was provided , by which the alternating currents set up in the rotating coil ( after a first impulse had been given ) were directed through the ] of the stationary electromagnets in a continuous manner , and proceeded thence outward to ignite a platinum wire of some length , or to perform other work .
This machine , although the first of its kind , has done good service ever since its construction , having been found very efficacious in powerful permanent magnets at the telegraph works of SIEMENS Brothers at Woolwich .
Since 1867 the accumulative principle has been employed in the machines of different makers , and one form of dynamo-electric machine , that of M. GRAMME , differs very materially from the machine above referred to , and has met very deservedly with extensive recognition .
M. GRAMME embodied in his machine the principle of Professor PACINOTTI'S magnetic ring , which enabled him to produce powerful electric currents without much of the loss of energy caused in previous machines through the heating of the rotating armature .
Another modification of the dynamo-electrical machine is one devised by Mr. Von HEFTNER ALTENECK , an engineer and physicist employed under my brother WEBNBR SIEMENS , at Berlin .
This machine differs from that first submitted by myst'lf in several important particulars .
Instead of the WERNER SIEMENS armature , Von HEFTNER ALTENECK adopted a rotating coil of iron wire wound with insulated copper wire in more than one the several coils of wire being connected seriatim with the commutator , and through it , with the wire surrounding the soft iron bars , and with the electric lamp or other resistance on the outer circuit .
The advantage claimed for this mode of construction is that all the wire forming the rotating coil or helix is brought into the magnetic field , excepting only those portions crossing from side to side of the coil ; and in order to reduce this unproductive resistance to a minimum , the rotating coil or helix has been made comparatively long , and the number of electro-magnets has been increased generally to six or more .
The principal advantage of the dynamo-electrical machine over all other current generators consists in its power of producing currents of great magnitude , and of an intensity up to 100 volts , with a small primary resistance , and therefore with a comparatively small expenditure of mechanical energy .
It labours , on the other hand , under the disadvantage that the power of the current depends , at a given velocity , upon the magnetic force developed in the electro-magnets .
This force depends upon the amount of current passing through the coils of the magnets , which in its turn is dependent in an inverse ratio upon the resistance in the outer circuit .
If from some accidental cause the external resistance is increased , the electro-motive force of the machine , instead of rising to overcome the obstruction , diminishes , and thus aggravates the resulting disturbance .
If , on the other hand , the resistance of the outer circuit ishes , as in the case when the carbons of an electric regulator touch one another , the are immediately excited to a maximum , and the ] -motive force of the machine is increased .
The power absorbed and its equivalent , the heat generated in the circuit , is equal to the square of the electro-motive force divided by the resistance ; hence the work demanded from the engine will be greatly increased , the machine may be dangerously overheated , and powerful sparks may injure the commutator .
It is chiefly owing to this illstability of the dynamo-electric current that its application to electric illumination has been retarded , and that magneto- electric machines and machines producing alternating currents have been again used , although they are inferior to the dynamo machine in the current energy produced for a given expenditure of mechanical energy .
The properties of dynamo-electric machines have been examined by several observers .
Messrs. HOUSTON THOMSON ( Franklin Institute ) compared the efficiency of the GRAMME , BRUSH , and WALLACE FARMER machines .
Dr. HOPKINSON ( Institution of Mechanical Engineers , 25th April , 1879 ) examined a medium-sized SIEMENS machine , determined its efficiency , and expressed the electro-motive force as a function of the current .
Herrn MAYER and ANERBACH ( WIEDEMANN'S ' Annalen , ' November , 1879 ) experimented on a GRAMME machine , and obtained a curve very similar to Diagram I. M. MASCART has experimented on the GRAMME machine , and Mr. NDLER on both GRAMME and SIEMENS machines .
The radical defect of the dynamo machine of ordinary construction , may be inferred from the results of these experiments .
The remedy has , however , been in our hands from the time of the first announcement of the principle of these machines before the Royal Society , when Sir CHARLES WHEATSTONE pointed out that " " a very remarkable DR. C. W. SIEMENS ON ECTRIC increase of all the effects , accompanied by a diminution in the resistance of the machine , is observed when a cross wire is placed so as to divert a great portion of the current from the electro-magnet.\ldquo ; Some of the constructors of machines , namely : Mr. LAD in this and Mr. BRUSH in the United States of , have taken dvantage of this suggestion , the latter with the avowed object in view of obviating spontaneous changes of polarity in effecting electro-precipitation of metals , and without perhaps realised all of the adyantages of which this mode of action is capable ; thers have refrained from doing so on account of difficultics resulting , as I shall endeavour to , from an insufficient examination into some important physical conditions that attention in order to realise economical results .
An ordinary medium-sized dynamo-electrical machine has wound on its rotating helix insulated copper wire of .
diameter sections , repre- senting a resistance of 4014 S. U. The electro-magnet coils connected seriatim are composed of copper wire of .
diameler , presenting a total of S. U. If ( as has frequently been done ) the wires of this machine were to be connected as suggested in Sir CHARLES WHEATSTONE'S original paper , thus the outer circuit not continuous with but parallel to the coil circuit , and if the outer cuit had a resistance of one unit , it would follow that the total resistance to the current set up by the rotation of the armature would be reduced from ] to unit , causing a increase of current , the major portion ( in the proportion of 10 to 4 ) would flow through the , thus increase of .
The resistance of he field magnet must efore be increased , but if it were attempted to increase esistance snply by cing the diameter of the wire , and increasing the number of convolutions ntil the same thickness of coil was obtained , the magnetic with it the electro-motive of the current produced at a given velocity of rotation would suffer a material .
The current flowing through the helix coil would moreoyer have to divide , and in order to reach the same limit in the outer cuit its intensity in the ] would have to be increased , causing it to heat more 1dily t therefore , to raise the effect of the mag.netctl rent to banlC leyel as th as small a proportion of the helix CLnrent as possible , in ordcl to leave proportion of the current for the outer circuit .
order to elfect this , nagnct bars had to be increased in length , and placed apart so to for *The resistance coils used these experiments were aduated according to mercury 0duced by Dr. WERNER SIEAENS , and adopted by the Tclegraphic Convcntion fit Vienna in 1808 . .
A. unit was determined in 1874 by KOHLBAUSCH to bc S. U. , or S. U. afterwards adopted , C. G. S. anits\mdash ; as as .
cent. } scrjbed t retical value .
Later determinations by H. F. WLBE S. T3 .
to ) equal to C. G. S. units , and thus the ohm to bo ccnt .
highcr than its ) value ; if this latter value is used , the numerical results mnst bc coils of greatly increased weight and dimensions ; at the same time the helix wire had to be increased in diameter to give room for the aggregate current , but in reality I found it advantageous to increase the diameter of the same in a much greater proportion .
These general conditions having been determined by preliminary experiment , Mr. LAUCKERT , electrician engaged at my works , undertook a series of comparative .
experiments which are given in the appendix attached to this paper , and the results are given numerically and exhibited in curves .
On examining the curves it will be remarked : 1 .
That the electro-motive force instead of dimimishing with increased resistance , increases at first rapidly , then more slowly towards an asymptote .
2 .
That the current in the outer circuit is actually greater for a unit and -half resistance than for one unit .
8 .
With an external resistance of one unit , which is about equivalent to an electric arc when 30 or 40 webers are passing through it , horse-power is expended , of which horse-power is usefully employed : an efficiency of 53 per cent. as compared with 45 per cent. in the case of the ordinary dynamo machine .
4 .
That the maximum energy which can be demanded from the engine is horsepower , so that but a small margin of power is needed to suffice for the greatest possible requirement .
5 .
That the maximum energy which can be injuriously transferred into heat in the machine itself is horse-power , so that there is no fear here of destroying the insulation of the helix by excessive heating .
6 .
That the maximum current is approximately that which would be habitually used , and which the commutator and collecting brushes are quite capable of transmitting .
Hence I conclude that the new machine will give a steadier light than the old one , with greater average economy of power , that it will be less liable to derangement , and may be driven without variation of speed by a smaller engine ; also that the new machine is free from the objection of having its currents reversed when used for the purpose of electlo deposition .
The same peculiarity also enables me to effect an important simplification of the regulator to work electric lamps , to dispense with all wheel and clock-work in the arrangement , as shown in Plate 40 .
The two c.arbons , being pushed onward by gravity or sprin power , are checked laterally by a pointed metallic abutment , situa .
at such a distance from the arc itself that the heat is only just sufficient to cause the gradual wasting away of the carbon in contact with atmospheric air .
The carbon holders are connected with the iron core of a solenoid coil , of a resistance equal to about fifty times that of the arc , the ends of which coil are connected with the two electrodes respectively .
The weight of the core , which has to be maintained in suspension by the attractive force produced by the current , determines the distance between the electrodes , and hence the electric resistance of the arc .
The result is that the length of the arc is regulated automatically so as to maintain a uniform resistance , signifying a uniform development of light .
DR. C. W. SIEMENS ON THE DYNAMO-ELECTRIC CURRENT .
The measurements of the electric currents were mtde with an -dynamometer , the movable part of which consisted of a single turn of .
wire , and stationary coil of nine turns of the same .
To be able to reduce the electrical measure1nents into absolute power developed , it was in the first place necessary to determine the constant of the instrument in use .
This was done in the following manner : Five copper plates of about were connected as shown in the sketch .
These were carefully weighed and immersed in a solution of sulphate of copper .
The machine was previously started , the time of immersion carefully noted , and the readings of the current taken every half minute .
The plates were so arranged that the current entering at and leaving at deposited the copper on both sides of the plate at .
After a certain time the plates were taken out , quickly rinsed in water , and dried in sawdust .
The plates were then carefully weighed again and the deposit calculated per degree reading on the instrument per second of time .
Six independent measurements were taken with currents varying from 20 to 40 webers , and gave a mean of 000779 gramme of copper per second per degree reading .
The differences of these measurements from the mean varied from per cent. to per cent. , the mean of the differences being per cent. According to F. KOHLRAUSCH ( POGG .
Ann. , Bd .
cxlix .
, ls73 ) the quantity of silver deposited by the C. G. S. unit of electricity is gramme , and since the quantities vary as the equivalents of the metals deposited , we have gramme of copper .
One weber being C. G. S. unit , we have to divide by 10 the quantity of copper deposited by a current of one weber in one second , that is 000334 gramme , and dividing 000779 by we get webers for a degree reading of our instrument To be able to compare the machines having the new winding ( i.e. , the wire on the electro-magnets connected parallel the outer circuit ) with the ordinary machines , it was necessary to experiment on the relation existing between the power expended and the current produced with different resistances in circuit and speeds .
A medium dynamo machine with 24 part commutator was , the being wound with 336 convolutions of 2 . .
wire , ving a resistance of 4ol4 S. U. when measured in the machine .
The electro-magnets were wound with fouJ layers of DR. W. ON DYNAMO-ELHiCTRIC CURRENT .
m.m. wire , each having 32 convolutions , and therefore the four bobbins a total of 512 convolutions with a resistance of ) S. U. The accompanying Tables Nos. 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 give the details of the experiments made , which shown graphically in the diagrams similarly numbered .
The current in webers was simply calculated by multiplying the square root of the reading on the electro-dynamometer with the constant of the instrument , i.e. , To be able to calculate the electro-motive force from the current in webers and resistance in SIEMENS ' units , it was necessary to convert the S. U. into C. G. S. units by multiplying the same by .
( This is given by LORENZ , POGG .
Ann. Bd .
cxlix .
, 1873 .
) By multiplying this resistance into the current we get , according to OHM'S law , the electro-motive force in C. G. S. utlits , and by dividing by we get the E. M. F. in volts .
have further calculated the total amount of work developed in the following manner : \mdash ; Work done , or , which is the same , , where is E. M. ; , current ; , resistance ; , time .
From these calculations is eliminated a.s it occurs in ] ] the equations .
1 C. G. S. units .
1 .
weber C. G. S. unit of current .
1 C. G. S. unibs .
Therefore and if we multiply the E. M. F. in volts by the current in webers , and divide by 746 , we have the actual work developed in -power .
To find the actual work done in outside resistance we use the formula of course having to reduce the resist nce into absolute C. G. S. units by multiplying by 933 The machine with the new had a helix with 24 part commutator wound with 312 convolutions of .
wire .
The electro-magnets being lengthened by to take bobbins , instead of as on the ordinary machines , I had three sets of bobbins made , and had the same wound with different sizes of wire , .
: , and 3 m.m. , having a respective resistance of , and S. U. The accompanying Tables Nos. 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 show the experiments made with this machine with electro-magnets of .
U. ; Nos. 10 , 11 , 12 , and 13 with electro-magnets of S. U. ; and Nos. 14 and 15 with electro-magnets of S. U. The helix in .
all cases having been wolmd with .
wire with a resistance of 234 S. U. when measured in the machine .
The Tables marked 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 refer to the dynamo machine wound in the ordinary way .
DR. C. .
SIEMENS ON THE DYNAMO- LECTRIC CURRENT .
The Tables marked 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , and 23 show the results obtained with a machine having a helix wound with 288 convolutions of 3 a resistance of 173 S. units .
The electro-magnets , as before , had a resistance of , and S. U. No. 1 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 312 convolutions , .
wire , 234 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 3916 conyolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistaIJce ( connected parallel to outer circuit ) .
No. 2 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 312 convolutions , , 234 S. U. Electro-magnets : 3916 conyolutions , .
wire , S. U. ( connected parallel to outer circuit ) .
No. 3 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 312 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance , Electro-magnets : convolutions , 25 m.m. wire , S. U. resistance ( connected parallel to outer No. 4 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 312 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 3916 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance ( connected parallel to outer circuit ) .
DR. C. W. SIEMENS ON THE CTRIC CURRENT .
No. 5 .
Helix:24 part commutator , convolutions , .
wire , 4014 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 512 , 55 m.m. wire , 3065 S. U. resistance .
No. 6 .
Helix : 24 commutator , 336 convolutions , .
wire , 4014 S. U. resistcmce .
Electro-magnets : 512 convolutions , m.m. wire , 3065 S. U. No. 7 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 336 convolutions , .
wire , 4014 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 512 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance .
No. 8 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 336 tions , .
wire , 4014 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 512 convolutions , .
wire , 3065 S. U. resistance .
DR. C. W. SIEMENS ON THE DYNA CTRIC CURRENT .
No. 9 .
Jlelix:24 part commutator , 336 convolutions , m.m. wire , 4014 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 512 convolutions , .
wire , 3065 S. U. resistance .
No. 10 Helix : 24 part commutator , 312 conyolutions , .
wire , 234 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 3200 tions , .
wire , .
U. resistance .
NIDCCCLXXX .
No. 11 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 312 convolutions , wire , 234 S. U. stance .
Electro-magnets : 3200 .
wire , S. U. resistance .
No. 12 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 312 convolutions , .
wire , 234 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 3200 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance .
Current in webels . .
78.10 DR. C. W. SIEMENS ON THE LECTRTC No. 13 .
part commutator , 312 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets ' 3200 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. tance .
Read .
No. ] Helix : 24 part commutator , convolutions , .
wire , S. U. ] ' -magnets 2240 convolutions , 3 .
wire , S. U. No. 15 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 312 oonvolutions , .
wire , 234 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 2240 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance .
No. Helix : 24 part commutator , convolutions , 3 .
wire , S. U. resistance .
-magnets : 3916 olutions , .
wire , .
U. resistance .
DR. C. W. SIEMENS ON THE DYNAMO-EhECTRIG CURRENT .
No. 17 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 288 convolutions ; wire , S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 3916 convolutions , wire , S. U. No. 18 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 288 convolutions , 8 .
wire , 173 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 3916convolutions , .
wire , S. U. istance .
No. 19 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 288 tions , .
wire , S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 3916 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance .
No : 20 .
Helix : 24 part mutator , 288 convolutions , 3 .
wire , 173 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 3200 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance .
DR. C. W. ON THL CTRIC No. 21 .
Helix:24 parb commutator , 288 itions , .
wire , S. U. Electro-magnets : 3200 convolutions , m.lll .
S. U. resistance .
ixCu.rrent iebers .
No. 22 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 288 convolutions , .
wire , 173 S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets : 2556 convolutions , 3 S. U. resistance .
No. 23 .
Helix : 24 part commutator , 288 convolutions , .
wire , S. U. resistance .
Electro-magnets , 2556 olutions , 3 .
wire , S. U. resistance .
il .
No 3 . .
\mdash ; Fhil .
Tra .
1880 Plate

