No:29 .
ABCD Fig. 4 .
E123 F Fig : 3 brtvs dhil ba Fig : 1 .
aagg cck of aa e md c b m Fig : 5 .
Fig : 2 .
Numb. 29 PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Monday , November .
11 .
1667 .
The Contents .
A description of an Instrument for Dividing a Foot into many thousand parts , and thereby measuring the Diameters of Planets to great exactness .
&amp;c. as it was formerly promised .
An account of making a Dog a awe his Breath just like a Wind-broken Horse .
Divers Anatomical Observations on Humane Bodies .
Several Instances of Peculiarities of Nature , both in Men and Brutes .
A Confirmation of the Experiments mentioned in Numb. 27 .
to have been made in Italy , by injecting Acid Liquors into Blood .
An observation about the double Membrane called Epiploon , which covers the Entrails of Animals , and is filled with Fat .
Some Hortulan Communications about the curious Engrasting of Oranges and Lemons , or Citrons , upon one anothers Trees , and of one Individual Fruit , half Orange and half Lemon , growing on such Trees .
An imitation of a way of preserving , in the more Northern Climates , Orange-trees all Winter long , without any Fire .
Enquiries for Greenland .
An Account of the Synopsis NOVAEPHILOSOPHIAE &amp; MEDICINAE Francisci Travagini , Medici Veneti .
A Description Of an Instrument for dividing a Foot into many thousand parts , and thereby measuring the Diameters of Planets to a great exactness , &amp;c. as it was promised , Numb. 25 .
If the residence of the worthy Promiser of this Instrument , Mr. Richard Townley , had not been so remote from London , nor some other Impediments intervened ( after it was come to hand ) , First on the Publisher 's , then on the Engraver 's side ; the following Particulars concerning the same , promised some Months ago , had been imparted to the Public a good while before this time : For the Draught of the Figures , representing the New Instrument it self , and the Description of the same , we are obliged to the ingenuity of Mr. Hook .
THe first , second , and third Figures do represent the several parts of this Instrument ; the fourth Figure , part of the Telescope , with the Instrument applied to it , and the fifth , the Rest , on which the whole reposes .
The first Figure represents the brass Box with the whole Instrument , ( excepting only the moveable Cover ) and the Screws , by which it is fixed to the Telescope .
In this Figure ( a aa a ) is a small oblong brass Box , serving both to contain the Screws , and its Sockets or Female Screws , and also to make all the several moveable parts of the Instrument to move very true , smooth , and in a simple direct Motion .
To one end hereof is serewed on a round Plate of Brass ( b bb b ) about 3 inches over ; the extreme Limb of whose outside is divided into 100 equal parts , and numbred by 10 , 20 , 30 , &amp;c. Through the middle of this Plate , and the middle of the Box ( a a a ) is placed a very curiously wrought Screw of about the bigness of a Goose Quill , and of the length of the Box , the head of which is by a fixed Ring or Shoulder on the inside , and a small springing Plate ( d d ) on the outside , so adapted to the Plate , that it is not in the least subject to shake .
The other end of this Screw is by another little Screw ( whose small point fills the Center or hole made in the end of the longer Screw for this purpose ) rendered so fixed and steady in the Box , that there appears not the least danger of shaking .
Upon the head of this Screw without the Springing Plate , is put on a small Index ( e e ) , and above that a Handle ( m m ) to turn the Screw round as often as there shall be occasion , without at all endangering the displacing of the index , it being put on very stiff upon a Cylindrical part of the Head , and the Handle upon a Square .
The Screw hath that third of it , which is next the Plate , bigger than the other two Thirds of it , by at least as much as the depth of the small Screw made on it : The thread of the Screw of the bigger Third is as small again , as that of the Screw of the other two Thirds .
To the grosser Screw is adapted a Socket ( f ) fastened to a long Bar or Bolt ( g g ) , upon which is fastened the moveable Sight ( h ) , so that every turn of the Screw promotes the Sight ( h ) either a thread nearer , or a thread farther off from the fixed Sight ( i ) .
The Bar ( g g ) is made exactly equal and fitted into two small Staples ( k k ) , which will not admit of any shaking .
There are 60 of these threads ; and answerable thereto , are made 60 divisions on the edge of the Bolt or Ruler ( g g ) ; and a small Index ( l ) fixed to the Box ( a a a ) denotes , how many threads the edges of the two Sights ( h ) and ( i ) are distant ; and the Index ( e e ) shows on the Circular Plate what part of a Revolution there is more , every Revolution , as was said before , being divided into 100 parts .
At the same time that the moveable Sight ( h ) is moved forwards or backwards , or more threads of the courser Screw , is the Plate ( pp. in Fig. 2 .
) by the means of the Socket ( q ) to which it is screwed , moved forward or backward , or more threads of the finer Screw : So that this Plate , being fixed to the Telescope by the Screws ( r r. in Fig. 2 .
) so as the middle betwixt the Sights may lye in the Axis of the Glass , however the Screw be turned , the midst betwixt the Sights will always be in the Axis , and the Sights will equally either open from it , or shut towards it .
Fig. 2 .
represents the moveable Cover containing the Screws , to be by the Bookseller cut off by the pricked Line ( x x x ) from the Paper , and to be fitly placed on Figure I. according to the pricked Line ( y y y ) answering thereto ; that by the taking off , as it were , or folding up of this Cover , the inward contrivance of the Screws and Sights may appear .
And because it is conceived by some ingenious Men , that it will be more convenient , instead of the Edges of the two Sights ( h and i ) to employ two Sights fitted with Hairs , therefore is added Figure 3 .
representing the two Sights ( r and s ) so fitted with Threads ( t and u ) that they may be conveniently used in the place of the solid Edges of the Sights ( h and i ) .
The fourth Figure represents , How the Screws are to be put on .
The Tube AD is divided into 3 lengths , of which ( as in ordinary ones ) BC is to lengthen or contract , as the Object requires : But AB is here added , that at A you may put such Eye-Glasses as shall be thought most convenient , and to set them still at the distance most proper for them , Indexes or Pointers , which here are supposed to be at B , which length alters also in respect of divers persons Eyes .
E is a Screw , by which the great Tube can be fixed so , as by the help of the Figures any smaller part of it can immediately be found , measuring only , or knowing the Divisions on B C , the distance of the Object-glass from the Pointers .
F is the Angular piece of Wood , that lies on the upper Screw of the Rest .
This Rest is represented by Fig. 5 .
As for a Description of the uses of this ingeniously contrived and very curious Engine , the Reader is desired to look back to the before-alledged Numb. 25 .
A Note to be inserted above , page .
544 .
after line 12 .
THis Rest ( by Mr. Hook 's suggestion ) may be rendered more convenient , if , instead of placing the Screw Horizontal , it be so contrived , that it may be laid parallel to the Equinoctial , or to the Diurnal Motion of the Earth ; for by that means the same thing may be performed by the single motion of one Screw , which in the other way cannot be done but by the turning of both Screws : As will easily appear to those that shall consider it .
In the SAVOY , Printed by T.N. for John Martyn , Printer to the Royal Society , and are to be sold at the Bell a little without Temple-Bar , 1667 .

