]\gt ; Mr. S. Bidwell .
On the Lifting Power of ' [ June 10 , VI .
" " On the Lifting Power of Electromagnets and the Magnetisation of Iron By SHELFORD BIDWELL , M.A. , LL. B. Communicated by Lord RAYLEIGH , Sec. B.S. June 1 , 1886 .
I believe that no very recent investigations have been made with reference to the maximum lifting power which an electromagnet is capable of exerting , and the experiments conducted by Joule } ) etween the years 1839 and 1852 still form the basis of most of our practical knowledge on the subject .
* It is a mattel of common experience that if an electromagnet be xcited by a gradually increasing current a limit is soon reached , beyond which the atio of increase of sustaining power to increase of current becomes rapidly smaller ; and it has generally been assumed that this ratio continues to diminish indefinitely , so that an infinite current would not impart to a magnet much greater lifting power than that which it when an approach to saturation is first indicaf , ed. Joule , after having by experiment that the power : .
of an electromagnet varies as ibs sectional area , expressed the opinion that " " no force of current could give an attraction equal to .
per square inch and much later Rowland stated , as a probable result of his well-known researches in magnetic permeability , that the greatest weight which be sustained by an electromagnet with an infinite current was , for good but not pure iron , .
per square inch , or 12,420 grams per square centimetre of section .
It has long been known that when an iron rod is magnetised its length is in general slightly increased .
Some experiments on this eflect of magnetisation , an account of which has been given in two papers recently communicated to the Royal Society , S show that if the magnetisation is carried beyond the point at which the magnetic elongation of the rod reaches a maximum , the length of the rod , instead of remaining unchanged , steadily diminishes , the exthe relation between the length and t , he magnetising force descending in a perfectly straight line which within the limit of experiments shows no tendency to become .
Some further experiments ( not yet published ) have also been made with rings of iron instead of rods , and effects of precisely the same character were *Physical Society 's Reprint of Joule 's Papers ; also " " Phil. Mag ser. 4 , vol. 3 1852 ) , p. 32 .
The greatest attraction which he succeeded in actually producing was 176 lbs. per square inch .
" " Phil. Mag ser. 4 , vol. 46 ( 1873 ) , p. 140 , and vol. 48 ( 1874 ) , p. 321 .
S " " Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 40 ( 1886 ) , pp. 109 and 257 .
1886 .
] Electromagnets and the Magnetisation of Iron .
487 obtained .
The diameter of a ring was found to be increased by a comparatively small magnetising current , and diminished by a strong one .
Now the retraction in question does not begin to occur until after the stage of magnetisation , loosely called the " " satul.ation point has been passed , when , according to the common belief , the magnetisation of the iron has practically reached a limit , and is not sensibly afficted by any further increase of the magnetic force ; and hence arises a difficulty in accounting for the phenomenon .
The most obvious method of explaining the retraction is to assume that under the influence of increasing currents the magnetic attraction of the particles of the iron towards one another is increased , and thus the l.od becomes compressed .
But this cannot be the case if the magnetic condition of the iron has become constant and independent of the magnetising current .
And a similar obiecbion will apply to any hypothesis which assumes ( as I think all must ) that some property of the iron dependent upon its magnetic condition varies in a sensible degl.ee with the magnetising force after the " " saturation point\ldquo ; has been passed .
I was led by.considerations of this nature to the belief that it would be desirable to make some experiments with the view of ascertaining whether the lifting power and general magnetic condition of an iron rod are as nearly uniform under strong magnetising as is common .
lie supposed .
Two pieces of apparatus were therefore prepared .
The first consisted of a rod of iron hooked at each end and divided transversely in the middle , together with a long solenoid , inside which the divided rod could be placed .
The second was an iron ring cut into two equal parts each of which was encircled with a coil of insulated copper wire .
In both cases the construction was such that an intense magnetic force could be produced with comparatively small battery power .
The divided ring could be used either as a semicircular electromagnet with a semicircular armature , or , if the current were passed through both , as two semicircular electromagnets .
Merely to test the hypothesis of Joule and Rowland , two or determinations were made of the weight which could be sustained when the current was caused to circulate around one only of the semicircles , the other being used as an armature .
With a of amperes the weight supported was 13,100 grams per square centimetre of surface ; with a curl.ent of amperes the weight supported was 14,200 grams per square centimetre .
In the latter case , therefore , the lifting power exceeded that which both Joule and Rowland considered the greatest that could be imparted to a magnet by an infinite current .
Had it been worth while to ncur the risk of injury to the insulation of the coil , there is no doubt whatever that by applying stronger rents the lifting power might have been carried still further\mdash ; for there was no indication that a limit was Mr. S. Bidwell .
On the Lifting of [ June 10 , bein approached .
But it was of greater interest to the effects produced when both portions of the ring or of the rod were under the direct influence of the magnetising coil .
The first experiment was made the divided rod .
One portion was supported by means of its hook in a vertical position ; a scale-pan was attached to the hooked end of the other portion , and the flat ends of the two were brought into contact and surrounded by the solenoid .
Currents of gradnally increasing strength were.then caused to pass through the solenoid , and note was taken of the greatest weight which could in each case be placed in the scale-pan without tearing asunder the ends of the two rods .
The general results are briefly as follow:\mdash ; When the intensity of the field at the iunction had reached about 50 C.G. units , the weight supported was nearly 7000 grams per square centimetre of the section of the rod .
After his value was exceeded it became quite evident that the weight which could be sustained was increasing more slowly than the magnetising lrrent , and the proportionate increase became rapidly smaller as the current was made .
This state of things continued until the intensity of the field was about 270 units , when the weight supported amounted to 10,800 grams per square centimetre of section .
But from this point onwards the magnetising current and the weight that could be carried increased in eipactly the same proportion .
The rate of increase of the load was , indeed , comparatively small , but it was perfectly constant , and continued so until the field had attained the intensity of 1074 C.G.S. units .
Here the experiment was stopped , the greatest weight supported having been 1.5,100 grams per square centimetre .
On account of some uncertainty as to the pos , sible intiuence of the external ends of the divided rod , it was thought desirable to make the experiment with the divided , the cnrrent being caused to pass in the same direction through the coils surrounding both portions .
The general character of the results was the same as before , but he weight per unit of area was from first to last somewhat gl'eater .
The falling ofl in the rate of increase of the lifting power was well marked when the intensity of the magnetic force had reached 50 C.G.S. units , at which point the weight sustained was about 10,000 grams per square .
And it continued to diminish until the magnetic force was 250 units and the weight supported 14,000 grams .
this point the increments of lifting power and of magnetic force appeal.ed to be exactly proportional , and continued to .
be so until the magnetic { orce had been carried up to 585 units , when the limit of the battery power was reached and the experiment stopped , the 1naximum weight supported having been 15,905 grams per square centimetre or .
per square inch .
* *As mentioned below , a part of the effect is to be attributed to the action between the coil and the iron .
If in respect of this we deduct grams 1886 Electro and the Magnetisation of Iron .
I proceed to describe the experiments in greater detail .
For several reasons it appeared desirable that the apparatus should be om as small a scale as conveniently possible .
Accordingly , I chose for the rods a piece of iron wire , the diameter of which as measured by a micrometer gauge was mm. The length of each rod was 12 cm .
lvhen straight , and cm .
when one end had been bent into the form of a hook .
The flat ends were rendered as true as was possible by means of a lathe with a slide rest , but they were not ground .
The bobbin consisted of a brass tube 4 mm. in internal diameter and 112 mm. in length fitted with ebonite ends .
Around this insulated copper wire , mm. in diameter , was wound in nine layers , each layer containing 104 turns .
The internal diameter of the coil of wire was 6 mm. , its external diameter 21 mm. , and its between the ebonite ends 99 mm. The magnetic field at its centre produced by a current of amperes was therefore very nearly .
The coil was fixed in a vertical position beneath a small table .
One of the iron rods was passed into the coil through a hole in the table and suspended by its hooked end from a brass bar , the height of which was so adjusted the flat end of the iron was exactly in ' the centre of the coil .
A scale-pan carrying the weights was attached to the hook of the other iron rod .
Around each rod near the flat emd two or three layers of paper were gummed , of sufficient thickness to serve as a guide and ensure that the two ends should meet concentrically inside the coil , but not so thick as to cause any material friction .
The source of electricity was a battery of 27 Grove cells , and the stre1lgth of the current was varied by varying the number of cells in use , or when there was only one cell by inserting resistance .
The current was measured by a tangent galvanometer of Helmholtz 's pattern ( by Elliott ) , having two rings of thick copper wire .
With the stronger currents the heating effect was found to be so great that the circuit could not be kept closed for more than a fraction of a second .
This of course did not allow sufficient time to make a galvanometer reading .
A spiral of bare German silver wire was therefore of the same resistance as the coil when cold , through which the current could be diverted by means of a switch , and the galvanometer reading leisurely made .
The method of proceeding was as follows : certain number of battery cells having been arranged so that they could be thrown into ( see Table II , cols .
1 and 2 ) , it appears that the lifting power due the magnehsation of the iron only was 14,993 grams per square centimetre , or lbs. per square inch .
July 1 Mr. S. Bidwell .
On the Lifting Power of [ June 10 , circuit with the coil by depressing a key , the rod carrying the scalepan was introduced into the coil and held in contact with ths fixed rod .
Weights were then placed in the scale-pan and the key momen tarily depressed , the lower rod at the same time being left free to hang or to drop ; and this operation was repeated with various weights in multiples of 10 grams until it was found that the further addition of 10 grams was sufficient to detach the two rods from each other .
record having been made of the greatest weight which was supported , the current was switched through the German silver wire and a galvanometer reading was made with the current both direct and leversed .
The same process was gone through with currents of different strength until the whole number of 27 battery cells had been used .
The results of the experiment are given in Table I , the first column of which shows the intensity of the magnetic field at the centre of the coil , and the second the weight supported per square centimetre of the section of the rod .
In fig. 1 the weight supported has been plotted against the intensity of the field , and it will be seen that the curve from upwards , is , within the limits of experimental error , a perfectly straight line , which is represented by the equation Table I. 1886 .
] Electromagnets and the Magnetisation of Iron .
A point marked on the curve indicates the magnetic force under which in some experiments with a rod of the same iron retraction began . .
The point corresponding with the maximum magnetic force reached in Rowland 's experiments is also marked .
The ring was made of very soft charcoal iron rod mm. in thickness , the joint being carefully welded .
It was turned in a lathe to a uniform circular section , and when finished its external diameter was 8 cm .
, and the diameter of its transverse section mm. The was sawn into two equal portions , and the cut faces ground as flat as possible , first with fine emery , and afterwards with rottenstone .
But I was unable to get rid of a very slight conYexity which , though it perhaps affected the permeability of the ring , was of some advantage in preventing the possibility of complications arising from nonmagnetic adhesion .
Upon the ends of one-half of the ring pieces of thin brass tube 5 mm. in length were fitted : these projected 1 mm. beyond the faces , forming shallow sockets into which the ends of the other portion of the ring could be inserted , thus insuring exact coincidence of the cut surfaces .
Each half of the ring was then covered with ten layers of insulated wire mm. in thickness , the radial gaps in every layer being filled with paraffin wax before a new layer was wound on .
The number of turns of wire upon the portion having the brass tubes was 980 , and upon the other portion , the ends of which protruded about mm. beyond the wire , 949 .
The total Mr. S. Bidwell .
On the Lifting Power of [ June 10 , number of turns was , therefore , 1929 , and when the two halves were , fitted together the coil was practically continuous .
The mean radius of the divided ring being cm .
, its mean circumference is cm .
Hence the magnetic force produced by a ourl'ent through the coil of amperes C. The experiment was made in the same manner as before , but the length of the wire contained in the ring-coil was about twice the length of that in the straight solenoid , and in consequence of the increased resistance thus introduced and other differences in the conditions of the arrangement , the greatest magnetic force which could be produced by the whole battery of 27 cells did not exceed 585 units .
On the other hand , it was found possible to obtain satisfactory results with smaller currents than could be used in the former case .
When the magnetic force was less than 40 units the residual or permanent netism of the divided rod seriously interfered the observations ; but in the experiment with the divided ring , owing partly perhaps to the superior quality of the iron , and partly to the difference of the arrangement , tlJe magmetic force could be diminished to about 4 unils before the residual magnetism began to be troublesome .
* resuIts of the experiment are given in the third and fourth columns of Table I , and plotted in fig. 1 as a curve which from is sensibly a straight line represented by It occurred to me that if an expression could be found which would satisfactorily connect the magnetic force and the weight lifted with the netic intensity of the iron ring , the results above obtained might be applied to the investigation of the changes of magnetisation which correspond to changes of magnetic force .
T The common belief that at a comparatively early stage the intensity of magnetisation becomes sensibly constant is , I imagine , founded rather upon inference than upon actual observation .
At all events , I am acquainted with no experiments bearing upon the subject which have been made with magnetic forces at all comparable in magnitude with those used by myself .
If a portion of a magnet in which the direction and intensity of the magnetisation are uniform there be hollowed out a cavity in the form of a thin disk whose plane is nol'mal to the direction of magnetisation , a unit magnetic pole at the middle of the axis experiences a force due to the attraction of the superficial magnetism of the disk on the positive side , and the equal repulsion it did in fact exert any material influence before this point was reached , the effect was at all events uniform , and not apparently capricious .
The expression used by Rowland in the paper before referred to is kilograms per square centimetre , which translated into C.G.S. units and the ordinary notation , becomes grams square centimetre .
This is clearly erroneous .
1886 .
] Electromagnets and ths Magnetisaiion of Iron .
of the superficial magnetism of the disk on the negative side .
* In calculating the force upon unit of area of one surface of the disk itself , we must omit the half due to the surface in question .
Thus the force becomes per unit of area of sulface .
To this must be added the force due to the mutual action of the coil and the iron If , therefore , grams weight supported per unit of area , we have for the divided and by giving to and the values which have been found by experiment to correspond with each other , we have the means of finding corresponding values of and .
These are given in the first and second columns of Table II , and are plotted as a curve in II.fig .
1 .
Here agai ] ] it ] be seen that when has exceeded the value of about 200 , the ratio to no longel to dimimsh , and curve apparently becomes a straight line , the equation to which is\mdash ; I do not suggest that the porbions of the curves obtained for and ) , and for a and ? !
far experiment goes differ insensibly from straight lines , old , in fact , continue to * Maxwell 's " " Electricity vol. 2 , SS 494 Mr. S. Bidweli .
On the Lifting Power of [ June 10 , appear as absolutely straight if they were onged indefinitely .
Assuming the curve of to be really straight , the curve of S is represented by or Hence for an infinite magnetic force C.G.S. units .
The curve is a hyperbola , an asymptote of which is parallel to the axis of Similarly , if we assume the curve of to be a straight line , the of must be a parabola .
From the experimental results it is impossible to determine whether either curve is in fact a straight line .
But in neither case do they give any evidence of the existence of a limit , and if there is one it must be very much higher than it is generally believed to be .
The third column of Table II shows the values of the coefficient of or the susceptibility , ( derived from ) , which correspond to diiferent values of If denote the induction and the magnetic permeability\mdash ; and We can , therefore , easily find the values of and corresponding with different values of .
These values are given in the fourth ana fifth columns of Table II .
In connexion ith the well-known experiments and views of Professor Rowland , the figures thus obtained are of the highest interest .
In order to exhibit the results of his experiments in the form of a curve which ( as he believed ) would be of finite dimensions , Rowland adopted the method of plotting the values of as es against those of as abscissae , and thus obtained the curve shown by a dotted line in fig. 2 , which is taken from his paper .
The curve was carried by actual experiment as far as the point marked X , before reacbing which it had apparently become an almost perfectly straight line .
Bowland , therefore , assumed that the line would continue be sraight until it met the horizontal axis at a point , the abscissa of which would indicate the greatest possible value of for an inbnite magnetic force .
He thus arrived at the ] usion that for ordinary bar iron the maximum of magnetic induction was ) atter.portion ourve , observations heems tcurve , xperiments , which ifrom 6inity Apart of the curve fetween inning wrapid decome amost pconstructed fourth aneCurve , highest , bove tetermining wheth r essl. .
W. H. Preece and H. R. Kempe .
[ June 10 , all it is , at all events , very much higher than that which was assigned to it by Rowland .
* There may , perhaps , be some doubt whether the expression used above is exactly applicable to the case of my divided ring , and small errors may possibly .
be introduced by the fact that the contact between the opposite faces woe not quite perfect throughout .
But apart from minute accuracy of detail , the general character of the results is entirely free from doubt , and would be quite unaffected by a very large margin of uncerbainty in the expression .
They show that the generally accepted ideas with regard to ssve1al important points need modificatio1l .
Thus it is not true that the.lifting power of an electromagnet reaches a limit under a comparatively small magnetising force , and that even if excited by an infinibe current it could not snpport a weight of .
per square inch surface .
It is not true that the magnetisation of iron becomes sensibly constant when magnetic force exceeds a certain moderate value .
And it is not true ffiat the maximum of magnetic induction , if it exists at all , is represented by anything like so small a value as 18,000 units .
In conclusion , I have to express my great obligation to Lord Rayleigh for much valuable assistance advice in the Iation of this paper . .
' On a New Scale for Tangent Galvanometers By W. H. PREECE , F.R.S. , and H. R. KEMPE .
Beceived May 6 , 1886 .
Tangent galvanometers much used for the exact quantitative measurement of currents of considerable strength , such as are measured in amperes , but they are not so generally used for the measurement of smaller currents in milliamperes .
This arises from a notion that they are not sensitive enough ; albhough the most nsitive instrument in practice\mdash ; Sir William Thomson 's mirror galvanometer\mdash ; is a tangent instrument .
The ordinary forms \mdash ; Joule 's , Gaugain 's , or Helmholtz's\mdash ; are not very sensitive .
Their is hardly necessary to point out that if there is any limit to , the susceptibility , , must become negative when the magnetic force exceeds a certain value .
Maxwell appears to have considered this not impossible .
See " " Electricity vol. 2 , S844 .
The close agreement of the values of in Table II wiIh those oblained in the experiments of Stoletow ( so far as the latter affords strong evidence of the accuracy the method ( see " " Enc .
Brit 9th edit .
, vol. 15 ( 1883 ) , p. 255 ) .

