191 187.2 .
] Dr. F. Crace-Calvert on Arresting Putrefaction .
plasmic nor fungus-life appeared during the time the experiments were continued .
Another substance , arsenious acid , also presented a marked difference in its action in the two solutions ; for although with albumen twenty-two days elapsed before vibrios were present , and eighteen before fungi , with gelatine animal life appeared after two days , and at no time did any fungi exist .
The effects of the other substances with gelatine were so similar to those with albumen , that it is unnecessary to state them here .
ii si III .
" On the Relative Power of Various Substances in arresting Putrefaction and the Development of Protoplasmic and Fungus-Life .
" By Dr. F. Crace-Calvert , F.R.S. Received February 22,1872 .
s , .
, ( Abstract .
) This series of experiments was undertaken as being complementary to those described in my last paper , and consisted in adding to a solution of albumen , swarming with microscopic life , one-thousandth part of the sub-# stances already enumerated in that paper , and examining the results pro-n duced immediately after the addition of the substances , and after one , six , and sixteen days ; but in this abstract only the results obtained in the first s and last cases will be noticed .
The solutions were placed in test-tubes similar to those described in my last paper .
0 The experiments were begun on the 20th Sept. 1871 , the solutions being kept at a temperature of 15'-18 ' C. In the standard solution the amount of life and putrescence increased during the whole of the time .
The first class includes those substances which completely destroyed the locomotive power of the vibrios immediately , and completely prevented their regaining it during the time the experiments were conducted:\#151 ; Cresylic acid .
The second class contains those compounds which nearly destroyed the locomotive power of all the vibrios 'present when added , and afterwards only one or two could be seen swimming about in each field:\#151 ; Carbolic acid , sulphate of quinine , chloride of zinc , and sulphuric acid .
The third class are those which acted injuriously on the vibrios on their addition , leaving only a small number retaining the power of swimming , but which allowed the vibrios gradually to increase in number , the fluid , nevertheless , containing less life after sixteen days than the standard putrid albumen-solution:\#151 ; Picric acid and sulpho-carbolate of zinc .
The fourth class includes those substances which acted injuriously at first , but permitted the vibrios to regain their former locomotive power , Presents .
[ Feb. so that the fluid after sixteen days contained as much vibrio-life as ft , standard putrid albumen , Chloride of aluminium , sulphurous acid and prussic acid .
_ The fifth class contains those compounds which acted injuriously at first , destroying the locomotive power of most of the vibrios , bnt winch stewards permitted the vibrios to increase more rapidly than in the standard Bleaching-powder , bichloride of mercury , chlorine-solution , caustic soda , acetic and nitric acids , sulphate of iron , and the sulpho-carbolates of potash ^The sixth class contains those compounds which exercised no action on the animalcules , either at first or after sixteen days Arsenious acid , common salt , chloride of calcium , chlorate of potash , sulphate of lime , bisulphite of lime , hyposulphite of soda , phosphate of lime , turpentine , and pepper .
, The seventh class includes those substances which favour the production of animalcules and promote putrefaction Lime , charcoal , permanganate of potash , phosphate of soda , and ammonia .
Presents received February 1 , 1872 .
Transactions .
_ t t Bern:__Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen , aus dem Jahre 1870 Nr .
711-744 .
8vo .
Bern 1871 .
The Society .
Buenos AiresMuseo Publico .
Anales , por G. Burmeister .
Entrega Novena ( tercera del tomo segundo ) .
4to .
Buenos Aires 1871 .
The Museum .
Copenhagen :\#151 ; Kongelige Danske Yidenskabernes Selskab .
Oversigt .
1870 .
No. 3 : 1871 .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Kjobenhavn 1870-71 .
The Society .
Florence:\#151 ; B. Comitato Geologico d'ltalia .
Bollettino .
No. 7-12 .
8vo .
Firenze 1871 .
The Committee .
Graz :_Naturwissenschaftlicher Yerein .
Mittheilungen .
Band II .
Heft 3 .
8vo .
Graz 1871 .
* The Soc.iety ' London:\#151 ; Odontological Society of Great Britain .
Transactions .
Yol .
II .
No. 1 ; Yol .
III .
No. 6-8 ; Yol .
IY .
No. 1 .
8vo .
London 1869-71 .
The Paris:__Ecole Normale Superieure .
Annals Scientifiques , publiees par L. Pasteur .
Tome YII .
No. 3-6 .
4to .
Paris 1870 .
The School Utrecht:\#151 ; Nederlandsch Gasthuis voor Ooglijders .
Elfde Jaarlijksc Yerslag hetrekkelijk de verpleging en het onderwijs door F. C ' Donders .
8vo .
Utrecht 1870 .
Yienna:\#151 ; Anthropologische Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen .
Band 1^ 7-14 .
8vo .
Wien 1871 .
The Society .

