]\gt ; OBITUARY ICES O FELLOWS DECLASED .
, only son of Smith , of nhill , Renfre shire , was born 011 tho 10th August , 1813 , Greenhead , , in the house where his mother 's father lived .
His father , also was Fellow of the Royal Society , had little .ttry and scientific tastes with a strongly practieal turn , fostered no doubt by his education in the University of Glasgow and his family connexion ith some of the ohief founders of the great commercial community which h up by its side .
In published works on rious s he left iIlg monuments of a long life of actively employed } .
lffi discovery of different species of Arctic shells , in the coul.se of severnl years ' gmg from his yacht , and his inference of a previously existing colder climate in the part of the world now occupied by the British .
constituted a remarkable and important advancement of Geological lence .
In his Voyage and vreck of .
Paul , ' a masterly application of the principles of practical seamanship renders St. Luke 's more thoroughly intelligibls to us now than it have beeu to contemporary readers not aided by nautical knowledge .
Later he published a ' Dissertation on the Origin and Conuexion of the Gospels ; ' was engaged in the collection of further materials for the elucidation of the same subject up to the time of his death , at the age of eighty-five .
Archibald Smith 's mother was also of a family ished for intel- leotual activity .
Her paternd grandfather was Dr. Wilson , Professor of Astronomy in the University of , whose speculations om the constitution of the sun are now accepted , especiaUy since the discovery nalysis and its application to physics .
lfer uucle , Dr. Patrick , who succeeded to father 's Chair in the University , was author of papelS in the 'Philosophical ctions ' on MeteoroIogy on Aberration .
Smith 's rliest y Tvel.e ietly passed in the old castle of Roseneath .
In 1818 and lS19 by his father and mothcr to travel on the of Europe .
Much of his early educ given him by his there , read Virgil with him ) about nine years old .
Ho lebsons from the rish scboolmaster , Mr. Dodds , ho ) ns of his ) ) .
In ii burgh during the winters 1820-22 he went to a day-school ; and after that , living at home at Jordanhill , he attended the Grammar School of Glasgow for three years .
As a boy he was extremely active , and fond of every thing that demanded skill , strength , and daring .
At Roseneath he constantly in boats ; and his favourits reading was any thing about the sea , commencing no doubt with details of adventurers and buccaneers , but going on to tives of voyages of discovery , and to the best text-books of seamanship and tion as he grew older .
He had of course the ordinary ardent desire to become a sailor , incidental to boys of this island ; but with him the passion remained through life , and largely influenced the scientific work by which he has conferred never-to be-forgotten benefits on the marine service of the world , and made contributions to nautical science which have earned credit for England among maritime nations .
He was early imitiated into practical seamanship under his father 's instruction , in yacht-sailing .
He became an expert and bold pilot , exploring and marking passages and anchorages for himself among the intricate channels and rocks of the West Highlands , when charts did not supply the requisite information .
His most loved tion from the labours of Lincoln 's Inn was always a cruise in the West Highlands .
In the last summer of his life , after a naturally strong constitution had broken down under the stress of mathematical work on ships ' magnetism by night , following days of hard work in his legal profession , he regained something of health and strength in sailing about with his boys in his yacht , between the beautiful coasts of the Frith of Clyde , but not enough , alas , to carry him through unfavourable influenees in the winter that followed .
In 1826 he went to a school at Redland , near Bristol , for two years ; and in 1828 he entered the University of Glasgow , where he not only began to show his remarkable capacity for mathematical science in the sses of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy , but also distinguished himself highly in Classics and Logic .
Among his fellow students were Norman Macleod and Archibald Campbell Tait , with both of whom he retained a friendship throughout life .
After completing his fourth session in Glasgow , he joined in the summer of 1832 a reading party , under Hopkins , at Barmouth in North Wales , and in the October following commenced residence in Trinity College , Cambridge .
While still an undergraduate he wrote and communicated to the Cambridge Philosophical Society a paper on Fresnel 's wave-surface .
The mathematical tact and power for which he afterwards became cele- brated were shown to a remarkable degree in this his first published work .
Fresnel , the discoverer of the theory , had determined analytically the principal sections of the wave-surface , and then guessed its algebraic equation .
This he had verified , by calculating from it the perpendicular frou , the centre to the tangent plane ; but the dem stration thus obiii tained was so long that he suppressed it in his published paper .
Ampere by sheer labour had worked out a direct anadytical demonstration , and published it in the 'Anmales de Chimie et de Physique ' * , where it occupies thirty-two pages , and presents so repulsive an aspect that few mathematicians would be to face the task of going through it .
With these antecedents , Archibald Smith 's estigation , bringing out the desired result directly from Fresnel 's postulates by a few short of beautifully symmetrical algebraic geometry , constitutes no small contribution to the elementary mathematics of the theory of light .
It one of the first applications in Eugland , and it remains to this dny a model example , of the symmetrical method of treatin analytical geometry , which soon after ( chiefly through the influence of the ' mbridge ] } matical Journal ' ) grew up in Cambridge , and prevailed over the unsymmetrical and frequently cumbrous methods iously iu use .
In 1836 he took his degree as Senior lgler and first Smith 's Prizeman , and in the same year he was elected to a ship in Trinity College .
Shortly after taking his degree , he proposed to his friend Duncan rquharson Gregory , of the celebrated Edinburgh mathematical family , then an undergraduate Trinity College , the establishmeJlt of an English periodical for the publication of short papers 011 mathematical subiects .
Gregory answered in a letter of date December 4th , cordially entering into the scheme , and uIldertaking the office of editor .
Being , however , on the eve of the Senate-House examination for his degree , he adds , " " But all this must be done after the degree ; for ' business before pleasure , ' as Richard said when he went to kill the kin before he murdere , d the babes The result 11 as , the ' Cambridge NIathematical Journal , ' of which the first number ppeared in November 1837 .
It was carried on in numbers , appearing three times a year under the editorship of Gregory , until his death , and has been continued umder various editors , and with several changes of , till the present time , when it is represented by the 'Quarterly Journal of tics ' and the 'Messenger of Mathematics .
' The original ' mbridge Mnthematical Journal ' of Smith and Gregory , containing as it did many admirable papers by Smith and Gregory themselves , and by other able contributors early attracted to it , among whom were Greatheed , Donkin , Walton , Sylvester , Ellis , yley , Boole , inaugurated a most fruitful revival of mathematics in England , of which llerschcl , , Babbage , and Green had been the prophets and precursors .
It is much to be regretted that neither Cambridge , nor the university of his nafive city , could oifer a position to Smith , him to make the mathematical and physical science , for which he felt so strong an inclination , and for which he had so great capacity , the professional ' for 1828 .
iv work of his life .
Two years after kiug his degree he commenced reading in London ; but his inclination was still for science .
Relinquishing reluctantly a Trinity Lectureship offered to him by Whewell in 1838 , and offered again and almost accepted in 1840 , ting a strong temptation to accompany Sir James Ross to the Antarctic regions on the scientitic exploring expedition of the ' Erebus ' and ' Terror ' in 1840-41 , and regretfully giving up the idea of a Scottish professorship , which , during his early years of residence in Lincoln 's Inn , had many attractions for him , he finally made the bar his profession .
But durin all the long years of hard work through which he gradually attained to an important and extensive practice , and to a high reputation as a Chancery barrister , he never lost his interest in science , nor ceased to be actively engaged in scientific pursuits ; and he always showed a lively and generous sympathy with others , to whom circumstances ( considered in this respect enviable by him ) had alJotted a scientific profession .
About the year 1841 his attention was drawn to the problem of ships ' magnetism by his friend Major Sabine , who was at that time occupied with the reduction of his own early magnetic observations made at sea on board the ships 'Isabella ' and ' Alexander ' on the Arctic Expedition of 1818 , and of corresponding magnetic observations which had been then recently made on board the ' Erebus ' and rror ' in Capt. Boss 's Antarctic Expedition of 1840-41 .
The systematic character of the deviations , unprecedented in amount , ex- perienced by the 'Isabella ' and ' Alexander ' in the course of their Arctic voyage , had attracted the attention of Poisson , who published in 1824 , in the ' Memoirs of the French Institute , ' three papers containing a mathematical theory of magnetic induction , with application to ships ' magnetism .
The subsequent magnetic survey of the Antarctic regions , of by far the greater part had to be executed by daily observations of terrestrial magnetism on ship-board , brought into permanent view the importance of Poisson 's general theory ; but at the same time demon- strated the necessity for replaoing his practical formulae by others , not limited by certain restrictions as to symmetry of the ship , which he had assumed for the of simplicity .
This was the chief problem first put before Smith by Sabine ; and his solution of it was the first great service which he rsndered to the practical correction of the disturbance of the compass caused by the magnetism of ships .
Twenty years later the work thus commenced was referred to in the following terms by Sir Edward Sabine* , in presenting , as President of the Royal Society , the Royal Medal which hffi beeu awarded to Archibald Smith for his investigations and discoveries in ships ' gnetism:\mdash ; Himself " " a mathematician of the first order , and possessing a remarkable facility " " ( which is from common ) of so adapting truths of cha* Proceedings of the Royal Society , Nov. } , 1865 , vol. .
p. 499 .
racter as to render them to less highly intcllects , he at my request , from Poisson 's equations , and formul cluding t effects ) of induced gncfisnl and of the more persistent in has been hardened in proccsses throngh it The fol.mulae supplied the iently exact cnlcnlatio 11 hen the results ere )rought t coordinnted .
ere subse]nenfl printed in the fornl 0 in the .
of the in the ' Philosophica } ions ' for lS46 .
The hich , from of friendship ' ' tific , Mr. mith rendered to ns from like to the able officers post of of ) of .
the for correcting the intion , ) he Io me , reduced to simple ular f , were ) the dmirn in cditions for the of the As , in the course of tiIYle , the nse of stcilt of the nrmament of ships of , and nsc of increased more and more ; the from ritieFI lllol } and pressed themselves on tion of officers .
An elltire ision of the ; .
Smith 's assistance the result ) as the publicatio]l of the ' Admiralty for ) ' ' the tions of the aused by the iron in a ship .
" " The of this hieh is due to Mr. ' ' seems to exhaust the subject , itnd to the processes ) " " formulae { phic methods , to the ' ' hich they are susceptible . .
SmitlI also joined ith his " " laboure Captain } , the present tendent of " " Compass Department of the laying before the Sorietv " " valuable papers ining the results of the ' " " applied to observations made on the iron-built " " ships of the Roynl Navy This is not an sion for ining in detail the borate i tions sketched in the preceding statement by Sir Sabine ; bnt the writer of the present notice , enjoyed the friendship of Archibald Smith sinc ?
the year 1841 , and had ) , both in-personal conrse and by Ietters , of tho through thirtv of ork on gnctism , } ' ) a brief refcrent.e to some 01 ' hc as most remarkable :\mdash ; vi 1 .
Harmonic reduction of observations .
2 .
ctical expression of the full mathematical theory .
3 .
Heeling error .
4 .
Dygograms .
5 .
Bule for positions of needles on compass card , with dynamical and magnetic reasons .
1 .
Harmonic reduction of observations.\mdash ; The disturbance of the compass produced by the magnetism of a ship is found by observation to be the same , to a very close degree of approximation , when the ship 's head is again and again brought to the same bearing , no great interval of time having intervened , and no extraordinary disturbance by heavy sea or otherwise having been experienced in the interval .
Overlooking these restrictions for the present , we may therefore say , in Fourier 's language , that the disturbance of the compass is a periodic function of the angle between the vertical plane of amy line fixed relatively to the ship , any fixed plane , when the ship , on " " even keel\ldquo ; or with any constant inclination , is turned into different azimuths\mdash ; the period of this function being four right angles .
Hence also the disturbance of the compass is a periodic function .
of the angle between the vertical plane of the chosen line moving with the ship , and the vertical plane through the magnetic axis of the compass .
The line moving with the ship being taken as a longitudinal line drawn horizontally from the stern towards the bow , and the fixed vertical plane being taken as the magnetic meridian , the angle first mentioned is called for brevity " " the ship 's course and the other " " the ship 's compass course One of Smith 's earliest contributions to the compass problem was the application of Fourier 's grand and fertile theory of the nsion of a periodic function in series of sines and cosines of the argument and its multiples , now commonly called the harmonic analysis of a periodic function .
To facilitate the practical working out of this analysis , he gave tables of the products of the multiplication of the sines of the " " rhumbs\ldquo ; by numbers , and by arcs in degrees and minutes ; also tabular forms and simple practical rules for performing the requisite arithmetical operations .
These tables , tabular forms , and rules , just as Smith gave them about thirty years ago , in use in the Compass Department of the Admiralty up to the present time .
From every ship in Her Majesty 's Navy , in whatever part of the world , a table of observed deviations of the compass , at least once a year is sent to the Admiralty , and is there subjected to the harmonic analysis .
The observations having been accurately and faithfully made , a full history of the magnetic condition of the ship is thus obtained , and want of accuracy , or want of faithfulness , if there has been any , is surely detected .
The rigorous carrying out of this system , with all the method and businsss-liks regularity characteristic the scientific departments of our Admiralty , undoubtedly done vii more than any thing else to promote the usefulness of the compass , and to render its use safe throughout the British Navy .
Smith 's tables forms for rmonic nnalysis have proved uable in many other departments of physics besides ships ' gnetism. .
The writer of this article found them most useful fifteen years ago reducing for the Royal Society of Edinburgh Forbes 's tions of the underground ture of Calton JIill , the Experlmentil Gardens , and Craigleith Quarry , in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh ; and the forms , a suitable modificntion of the tables , have proYed ally useful in the harmonic nnalysis of tidal for valious parts of the world , carried out by the Tidal Committee of the British with the assistance of sums of money granted in successive years from 1868 to 1872 .
2 .
Practica:l expression of the full }\mdash ; Poisson himself , in making practical application of his theory , had simplified it by assuming particular conditions as to sVmmefry of the iron the ship , and even these restrictions had left it in a form which seemed to require further simplification before it ] bs reJldered ailable for general use .
Airy , in taking up the problem with this ) ] , at the request of the Admiralty in the .
1839 , founded his ] on a supposition that , " " by the action of tism particle " " of iron is converted into a magnet whose dircction parallel to that of the dipping needle , and hose intensity proportional to the inferlsity " " of terrestrial magnetism This supposition , hich is true only for the ideal case of the iron of the ship bein all in the shape of placed at such considerable distances from nother f not to exercise mutual influence to any sensible degree , lctt to a of dependenoe veen the ship 's force on the compass needle , and the angular coordinates of the ship , 11-hich differs that of the t.Olnplete theory , as ards by Smith , olllv in the his coJlstant term A of the harmonic development , \mdash ; a difference which , in cases , does not vitiate sensibly the prnctical tion .
In cing the supposition , Airy correctly anticipated that old i lead to results sufficiently accurate complete for practicffi purposes .
But he said ' ' it -ould have been desirable to make on " " Poisson 's theory , which undoubtedly cl on our " " attention ( as a theory representing ccnrately the fncfs of some " " peculiar cases ) than any other .
The difficulties , , in ) " " cation of this theory to complicated cnses are great , " " able These difficulties were wholly tho ) matical- tact of Archibald Smith , who the fnll of Poisson 's theory , including the effect of permanent magnetism , the great practical importance of which had been discovered by , to a few simple and easily applied Appendix 10 this notice .
] 'rhehe viii formulae are now in regular use in the Compass rtment of the Admiralty , for the practical deduction of rigorous results from the harmonic analysis already referred to .
In fact the full expression of the unrestricted theory , as given by Archibald Smith in Part III .
of the ' Admiralty Manual , ' is even simpler more for ordinary use than the partial and restricted expressions which Poisson and Airy given for practical applic.ation of the theory .
3 .
Heehng error.\mdash ; Poisson 's general formulae express three rectangular components of the resultant force at the point where the compass is placed , due to the magnetism induced in the ship by the terrestrial magnetic force .
To these Airy added the components of force due to permanent magnetism of the ship 's iron , which , though not ignored by Poisson , had been by him , because , considering the probability of scattered directions of the magnetic axes of permanent magnetism in the isolated masses of iron existing in wooden ships and their ments , he justly judged that permanent magnetism could not seriously disturb a properly placed compass in a wooden ship ; and iron ships were scarcely contemplated in those days .
This general theory of Poisson and Airy expresses the resultant force in terms of three angular coordinates , specifying the position of the ship .
In the practical tion these coordinates are most conveniently taken the ship 's " " magnetic course defined above ; ( 2 ) the inclination of the longitudinal axis of the to the horizon ; the inclination to the horizon of a plane drawn through this line perpendicular to the deck .
The second coordinate has no name and is of no importance in the compass problem ; for under steam , or even under sail , the average inclination of the longitudinal axis ( chosen as horizontal for the ship in still water ) is never so great as to produce any sensible effiect on the compass disturbance , the magnetic effects of pitching in the heaviest sea are not probably ever so grent as to produoe any seriously inconvenient degrees of tion in the compass card .
The third coordinate is called the " " heel and its magnetic effect on the compass is called ' ' the heeling error The heeling error was investigated by Airy in his rliest work on the compass disturbanoe ; but at that time , when iron sailing ships were comparatively rare , he confined his ordinary practical correction of compass error to the case of a ship in different azimuths on even keel .
Since that time the heeling error has come to be of very serious practical importance , on account of the great num .
ber of iron iling ships , and of screw steamers admitting of being pressed by sail to very considerable degrees of ' ' heel Archibald Smith took up the question with characteristic mathematical tact and practical ability , and gave the method for correcting the heelin error\mdash ; which is now , I beheve , universally adopted in the Navy , and too frequently omitted ( without the substitution of other method ) in the mercantile marine .
ix 4 .
\mdash ; This is the name given by Smith to exhibiting the magnitude and direction of the resultant of the terrestrial gnetic force and the force of the ship 's magnetism the point occupied by the compass .
The solution of problem of finding for ship in zimuths on even keel the dygogram of the hole resultant force by him in the cbapter headed ' ' Circle of the 'Admiralty Mantlal , ' Appendix 2 edition , .
But it is only for horizontal components of force that he has put into a practical form ; for this includes the compnss problem of ordinary nnvigntion , .
his admirn rnble both for their beauty and for their ntility .
" " Number I is the curve locus of the extremity of a line a fixed.point , the direction , and to a length ally e to the magnitude , of horizontal component of the resultant force experience by the when the ship is tul.lled through all azimuths .
This curve great the devintions of the cotlpass ) proves to be the 0J is to , the cul.ve ( belongng to he of epitrochoids ) described by the end of an arm rotating in ronnd a itself is rried with half ngulnr elocity rotlnd the rence of fixed circle in the same plane .
length of the first-mclllio]ed equal to the maximum amount of whttt is fter A the quadrantal deviation ; the of the circle 1 melltio]led is the maximum amount of whttt Airy the pol Smith the semicircular deviaholl .
( When , asthc wl.iter of this article trusts before long will be the case* , the iation is perfectly corrected by Airy 's method soft iron correctors , the dvgog ] Number will be to a ) Besides the fol.m of the in any particular which depends 011 the of the radius to the sccond , to complcte the diagrftl the position of the fixed through which thel , ' is to be drawn , must in the the magnetic benrnlg o the ship 's head , for which ) of the resultant force .
Smith all these ments by slml)lc il eilhlly executed constructions , in the first and secolld editions 01- the ' Manual .
' In the third edition he ) , for his or construction of the dvgogram of it to of the Bussian Imperial of the Observatory , Cronstadt , and added several constructions , due to Lieut. Colongue , for the ) of rious c ) problems , by of the Nunnber I. The arrier against this being dono crlo 1 been the lcn of hc compass needles used , the sllorlest being six con1pass the ought not to be } , .
The annexed is the Number I. for the ' Warrior , ' drawn accurately ( by aid of a circular board rolling upon a fixed circular board of equal diameter , in the nner described by Smith in the ' Admiralty Manual , ' Appendix II .
, under the heading " " Cont , truction of Dygogram No. I ccording to the following deduced from observations at Spithead in October 1861 .
The notation % , Rule for yogram .
I.\mdash ; In the diagram is a fixed point of the " " " " the pole of the dygogram It lies in the axis of symmetry , which is indicated by a dotted line .
NQS , EQW are two lines through at right Lngles to one another ; and are two points , in positions fixed by the ship 's gtletic elements .
The length OP represents ' mean force on compass to north\ldquo ; .
Take any point on the curve , such that NOR is equal to the ship 's " " magnetic courso thsn is EOP the " " deviation\ldquo ; of the compass , and OR represents the horizontal component of the force on it .
xi , o , is that which was introduced by Smith when he first substituted the rigorous formulae for the approximate harmonic formulae which had previously sufficed : it is explained in the Appendix to this notice .
Dygogram Number II .
may be deduced from dygogram Number I. by attaching a piece of paper to the half-speed revolving arm , and lettin the tracing-point of the leave its trace also on this paper , which will be a circle , whils at the same tims the fixed point from which the resultant radius-vector is drawn will trace another circle on the moving paper .
The fresh diagram thus obtained of two circles .
one of these circles ( the second in the order of the preceding description ) with the points of the compass * , like a compass card ; or ( better ) mark simply degrees all round from North taken as zero ; and mark with degrees counted in reYerse direction the other circle , which , for brevity , will be called the ] circle .
Mark the ship 's compnss course on the circumference of the ideal compass card .
From this point to the corresponding point on the auxiliary circle draw a straight line .
The direction of this line shows by the parallel to , through the centre of the ideal compass cnrd , the compass corresponding to any chosen magnetic course .
The length of the line , drawn in the manner described , represents the resultant force of the cnrtb ship , at the point occupied by the compass needle , in terms of the radius of the ideal compass card , as unity .
The riter of the article believes that this construction will yet prove of very ctical utility , although hitherto it has not come into general use .
Its geometrical beauty attracted the notice even of Cayley , contributed to the Admiralty Compass Manual a second method of , by means of it , one of Smith 's compass problems .
Construction from ship 's 's magnetic elements .
yith O centre and OH equal to " " mean force on compass to north\ldquo ; describe a circle .
Make ; with centre describe a circle through The following diagram shows ( for an cnse , possibly a turret ship of the future , with very large of the elements a and ) the Dygogram of circles , modified to Chinese compass ( or ncedle unloaded with compass hich is undoubtedly the compass of tho future ) .
This modificntiot1 is rrlso ancient system of marking 32 points on the roml'ass card , specifying courses terms of them , has been very inconvenienl , is now beginning to be gemeradly perceived to be so .
A short demonstration of it , deduced directly from is appended to the present article for the slke of ma ] have the Admirally Compass Manual at ]land .
xu nient for the theoretical exphnation and proof appended to the present notice .
Dygogram No. II .
-Make equal in angular value to ; then OK , parallel and equal to , shows direction of needle and magnitude of horizontal component force on it when correct magnetic north is in direction ON , and ship 's head OH : NOH being ship 's " " magnetic course KOH is the corresponding " " compass course .
5 .
Rule for positions of needles on compass card , with dynamical and magnetic \mdash ; In 1837 a Committee , consisting of Captain Beaufort , Hydrographer to the Admiralty , Captain Sir J. C. Ross , R.N. , Captain , Major Sabine , R.A. , and Mr. 8 .
H. Christie , was appointed to remedy defects of the compasses at that time in use in Her Majesty 's fleet , and to organize a system of compass management ashore and afloat .
The labours of that Committee have conferred signal benefit , not only on the British Navy , but on the navies and mercantile rine services of all nations\mdash ; in the ' Admiralty Standard Compass , ' and in the establishment in 1843 of the British Admiralty Compass Department .
The qualitics of the magnetic needles and their arrangemenl on the card occupied much xiii attention of the Committee .
Smith 's attention to the subject by his friend Sabine ; and he gave a rule for placing in the lleedles , which -as adopted by the Committee , an has ever since been followed in the construction of the Admiralty compass .
The rule is , that when there are needles used they should be placed with their en on comp ds on com ass card at on each side of the ends of diameter ; and that when ( as in the Admiralty Standard Compass ) thel .
are four needles , they hold be placed with their en ir ends at and from the ends of the diameter .
di 1 moments of inertia all The object of this rule was to gve equa horizontal axes , and so to remedy the \ldquo ; wabbling\ldquo ; motion of the compass card when balanced on its pivot , which has been found inconvellient .
Captain Evans , in a letter recently received from him by the writer this notice , says that the " " wabbling\ldquo ; motion has been factor y corrected by this rangement of needles ; " " it is translormed into a swimmiw ' motion About twenty years later it was discovered that the same arrangement , by a happy coincidence , a very important magnetic merit to the Admiralty compass , which had not ] .
been buutl hen he gave his rule .
To explaiu this , it llust be prelnised that practicnl compass-adjusters had experleuce dilficulties in correcting the co1npass deviation of ships by Airy 's method which in lbing soft iron to correct the drantal d , and permanelltmagIlets to correot the semicircular ) , and had reported in such they had found it advantageous to lbstitute cVlth two nee es dles for a single-needle compass .
The attention of Captain Evans rawn to this subject by the observations made in the ' Great Eastern ' 011 her experimental voyage the to Portland , when sbe was lying at Holyhead and ) , rom w ton from which he that the tions had been carefully corrected by Mr. ray , althoug Liverpool , with lnagnets and soft iron , and were iu fact nearly correct ou the cardinal and ntal poiuts , there errors of betweeu and 6 on some of the intermediate points .
These observat ons cated the a error , which neither Clllar quadrantal , and thus { pparently some rce of not been talrem into account by Airy in his plnn for correc.tiou .
To explain the cause of these and silnilar results in other ] , previously lered to nomalous , Evans instituted a series of experlInents th compasses , and maguets and soft placed ositious respect to them .
He soon found that the tness of the in the 'Grent Eastern ' depended on the ttlusually greal length of the needles her standard compass ( two needles*of ] ches in unguidffi bttained oinchcs , evcn mompass necoming 1arger w xiv length , placed near each other on the card ) .
The results of the observations and expsriments , reduced by aid of Napier 's graphic method , and subjected to a thorough harmonic analysis , are described in a joint paper by Smith and Evans , published in the Transactions of the Boyal Society for 1861 .
They show , in the expression for the deviation , sextantal and octantai terms*very large in the of the Eastern , ' and comparatively small when the Admiralty standard compass was tested in circumstances otherwise similar .
Whether single needles or double needles were used , it was found that the smaller the needle the smaller were the sextantal and octantal terms .
Single needles gave greater terms of this class than double needles of the same magnitude , arranged as in the Admiralty compass .
The merit of givin almost evanescent sextantal and octantal terms , of the highest name .
Reversion to the old Chinese species , with single needle less than an inch long and unloaded by a compass card , would be an improvement on the present ordinary usa , of first-class ocean steamers .
The direction ofpart of the reactionary improvement required is clearly pointffi out in the following note on the comparative merits oflarge and small compasses , extracted from Captain Evans 's ' Elementary Manual for the Deviation of the Compass in Iron Ships ' ' Of late years much diversity in practice has prevailed as to the size of compasses for " " use on board ship .
The Admiralty Standard card of inches diameter , for example , " " is Iitted with needles the maximum lengths of which are inches , while in large ' ' passenger steam-vessels the needles are frequently 12 to 15 inches , and even longer .
' ' The chief object in the employment of large compasses is to enable the helmsmen " " to steer to degrees ; and a more accurate course is thus presumed to be preserved " " With reference to this increased size , it must be observed that competent authorities 'Iimit the length of efficient compass needles to 5 or 6 inches ; beyond this hmit an ' ' increase of length is alone accompanied by an increase of directive power in the " " same proportion ; and if the thickness of the needle be preserved , the weight , and " " consequently the friction , increase in the same ratio .
No advantage of directive " " power is therefore gained by increase in length ; but with the increased weight of the " " card and appendages the increase offriction probably far exceeds the of direc " " tive force : sluggishness is the result , which is further exaggerated by the extreme slow ' ' ness of oscillation of long needles compared with short needles " " Large cards , however convenient in practice , are therefore not without danger ; for ' ' the course steered deceive the seamen by seeming right to the fraction of a " " degree , but which avails little if the card is wrong half a point , and the ship in con " " sequence hazarded .
In the opinion of the writer the present Admiralty standard card is as large as should be used for the purposes of navigation , and that , as regards in the long , steady , and fast ship , the choice is really the Admiralty ' ' card and a smaller one .
In short the case may be thus stated : the smaller a card " " the more correctly it points ; the larger a card the more accurately it can be read When the needles of a standard compass are reduced to something like half an inch in length , and not till then , will the theoretical perfection and , and the practical merit , ofAiry 's correction of the compass soft iron and permanent great ( which assumes the length of the needle to be infinitely small in proportion to its distance from the nearest iron steel ) be ally recognized and have full justice done to it in practice .
* That is to say , consisting of coefficients multiplying the Qines or oosines of six timos and of eight times the ship 's magnetic azimuth .
xv discovered in the Admiralty standard compass , " " suggested the idea , that the arrangement of the needUes in that compass produce , in the case of deviations caused by a magnet or mass ot soft iron in close proximity to it , a compensation of the alltal a deviations ; and this , on the subject being lnathelmatically } [ on the approx-imate hypothesis that the sity is uniform " " through the length of each needle , and in the different needle .
] , to be the case , this ngement of ncedles les to zero the ents of the the squal.e.of the rat of the length of the needle to the distance of the rblllg ron ; so that this remark-able result as the arrangement of needles hich produces the lity iu the momellls of inertia is , by a happy coincidence , the same as that ) } hich ents the sextantal tion in the case of correcting magltets , and the octnntal iu " " the case of soft iron COl'rectors .
The consequence , that ith " " Admiralty compass cards , or ith cards ith each 30 " " from the celltral live , correcting mngnets and soft iron COl'rectors may be placed much nearer the compass fely bc ith a single-needle compass card , and that the large ions found iu lron ships may be thus more accurately cted.\ldquo ; It will be understood that the preceding telnent , of subjects , but a iucomplete idea mith 's ork on magnetism .
Further is to be oulld in his ) pers m the ransactions and Proceedings of the Royal Society , some of coutriuted in conjunclion llle or .
or th others 111 his name alone .
In ) he published cCOUll his theol .
practical investigations ou the of the deviatious of a ship compass , which was ards a a ) to the Practical Rules\ldquo ; in .
The la , rge found in lroll-p lated ships war " " } ren " " .
rendered necessary the use of the exaet instead of the formulae this vritten by bmith for the Compass Department the Admiralty .
It 1low he Admiralty Manual for the deviations of the Coln.pass , ediled by 1 aus and Smith , to which are added nppeudioes a tical statement of the general theory , proofs of the and constructions and methods a more character than those the body of the for separate tion , of " " fnstructions for the the Compass by Smith , was made by the Board ot Trade It is .
satisfnclory to find that the British ) ' Compass Manual , ' embodying as it does the of so amotllt of labour , guided by the highest mathematical ability and the most consun ) mate Instructions for of Tables of Deviations , by .
Pubhshed for the Hydrographic of the Admiralty .
xvi practical skill , has been ppreciated as a gift to the commonwealth of nations by other countries than our own .
It is adopted by the United States Navy Department , and it has been nslated into Russian , German , Portuguese , and French .
Smith 's inathematical work , and particuhis beautiful and ingenious geometrical constructions , have attracted great interest , and have called forth fresh investigation in the same direotion , among the well-instructed and able mathematicans of the American , Russian , French , and German Navy Departments .
The borious and persevering devotion to the compass problem , which has been shown by British mathematicians and practical men , by Sabine , Scoresby , Airy , Archibald Smith , by Captains Johnson and Evans of the Compass Department of the Admiralty , and by Townson and Rundell , who acted as secretaries to the Liverpool Compass Committee , has been an honour to the British nation in the eyes of the world .
Referring particularly to the Liverpo Compass Committee , Lieut. Collet , of the French Navy , the French translator of the 'Admiralty Manual , ' in a history of the subject which he prefixes to his translation , Aide par des liberalites particulieres , soutenu surtout par cette sort de te'nacite ' passionne'e , tout particuliere a la nation anglaise , " " qui , en inspirant les longues et patients recherches conduit surement " " au success et sans laquelle tous les moyens d'action sont impuissants a " " surmonter les obstacles , ce Comite ' fit paraItre successivement trois rap " " ports qui fixerent d'une maniere de'finitive la plupart des questions controversees , et qui indiquerent nettement , pour celles qni restuent a " " re'soudre , la marche qu'il fallait suivre et les veritables inconnues du " " problem And in an official publication by the American Navy Department , containing an EngIish translation of Poisson 's memoir , followed by the whole series of papers , theoretical and practical , on ships ' magnetism , which have appeared in this country , we find the passage , which must be gratifyin to all who feel British scientffic work and appreciation of it by other nations , to be a proper subject for national pride:\mdash ; " " ** With the complex conditions thus introduced , and the ' ' more exacting requirements of experience in their practical treatment , " " came the necessity for constantly aiming at that complete analysis of " " the magnetic phenomena of the ship which has been so prominent and ' ' characteristic a feature of the English researches The constancy to the compass problem in which Smith persevered with a rare extreme of disinterestedness , from the time when Sabine first asked him to work out practical methods from Poisson 's mathematical theory , until his health broke down two years before his death , was characteristic of the man .
It was pervaded by that " " tenacite passionmee ' ' which the generous French appreciation , quoted above , describes as a peculiarity of the FCnglish nation ; but there was in it also anoble singlemindedness and a purity of unselfishness to be found in few men of any nation , but simply naturaJ in Archibald Smith .
xvii marks of appreciation reached him from val.ious quarters , and him the more sure f being altogether unsought and unexpected .
The Admiralty , in 1862 , gave him a atch .
In ) he received the honorary degree of .
from the of The Royal Society arded to him the Medal in year The Emperor of Bussia ) , a gold tled with the Arms and set liamollds , .
the points .
Six )cfore his Her Majesty 's Go.l ernment requested his acceptance of gift of ' X2000 , as a of rendered thich hslve m ' ' ships , and the deviatious of their sscs .
The letter timating this , dated Admiralty , July 1st , l8 , collt the statement , communicated to bSmith by of the Lords of the Admiralty:\mdash ; ' ' To the and ability with for mRnv ycnrs have applied yourself to this and , My " " Lords attribute in a degrec { he urate 1tlOll { pohsess " " in regard to the influence of magne , tism , ) colt to ' the navigation of iron ships , of the tilp " " avies of this country , but of all : The -riter of notice has to .
th from a letter from the irst I , of February , 1872 , to had determined to propose to that the sllll of ' 3 be awarded to him " " as a of ognition o gl.cat " " labours\ldquo ; hich he " " ed on chcs o " " quiry of deep importance to " " Iam are you iu this ction " " as a labour of lo herefore T do llof that the grttllt hich " " Parliament will be reqnested to is in auy " " upon as a remuneration of your .
I trust .
" " regard it as mark of recognitiou the pnrt of , of Ollr great devotion uiries of emintpubl .
" " in the leisure h to ou borlOtS 1 ) The ving lettcr , which was ddressed to of Herald , ' and published in that paper last Janu ill be with interest by olhers vell as thosc for ] ittcn :\mdash ; " " As an intimate friend of the late ] ] " " desire to call your attention to a " " .
December upon him , which might perhaps ronlg ' ' pression to the minch of your readers .
You say } ) mathemtttics in to " " ' gation was the amusement of his lighter hours .
' The is , that ' ' the profession of a Chancery bttrrister , which of a " " family forbade him to abandon , occupied his best from ear VOL. XXII .
xv morning till late in the evening\mdash ; in other words , what would in the of most people , be called ' his whole time ; ' and compass investigation of the most minute and severe nature , undertaken after midnight , and carried on far into the morning hours by a man whose brain been working all day , and must work aga1n the next day , can hardly be called ' the amusement of lighter hours .
' The same rsmark lies to vacations , during which his vere constantly lvith him\mdash ; on journeys , on board the yacht , the last subject of his thoughts at night , the first in the morning , at one time depriving him , to an alarming extent , of the power of sleep ; for , unlike the labours of law , these abstruse subjects cannot be dismissed at will .
The fact is that , in addition to the love of science for her own sake , " " he was penetrated by the conviction of the usefulness of his work .
" " His splemdid abilities , supported by a constitution of unusual vigour , " " were freely and heartily devoted to the service of his country , and the good of his ' Think how many lives it will save , ' was " " his answer to an anxious friend who begged him to relinquish labours " " so exhausting , and to give himself ordinary rest .
But the inevitable " " result followed ; and though in earlier days it had seemed as if nothing " " could hurt his constitution , and his friends might nticipate for him " " the length of days for which many of his family had been remarkable , " " yet the continued mental strain did its work too surely , and in 1870 " " he was compelled to give up his profession with shattered health , to " " spend two short years with thoss he loved , and then sink into a " " ture grave .
You observe that ' from very commencement of his " " career Her 's Government ( to their credit be it said ) appreciated " " the supreme importance of his researches .
' In justioe to the Govern " " meant , it ought also to be mentioned , that they asked [ twelve years ago ] " " what acknowledgment should be made to him for work undertaken at ' ' their request , and when Smith named a watch , it was presented to him by " " the Admiralty .
The testimonial presented to him during the past year , " " ' not as tive of the money value his researches , but as a " " ' mark of their appreciation of their worth , ' and still more , the graceful " " letter in which Mr. Goschen intimated to him it was awarded* gave him pleasure , and his friends must always be glad that it did not " " come too late .
" " The truth is , Sir\mdash ; and it is for this reason that I address you\mdash ; that " " services such as his , rendered at such heavy cost to himself and his " " sorrowing friends , deserve the highest reward which can be given , " " namely , the gratitude of the nation One more extract in conclusion .
The following from the 'Solicitors ' ournal and Reporter ' of January 11th , 1873 , contains a brief statement regarding the estimation in which Smith was held in relation to legal profession , and concludes with words in which the writer of this article wishes to join , and therefore gives without quotation marks:\mdash ; xix When Mr. James -Chancellor he ted his he 11 as Secretnry to the , which its reporl .
In that " " report there is of the ) ject by mith ; and one see " " there not on the special ledge hich he collected on the matter in hand , but all 11 of his thorough style , close , compressed , and ith fruits hich it had cost him long thought to pal'ade he used to offcr the prodncl of to hc riter , pointing to omc nres his book , cost ; eeks of ' thus he evel .
: uo to be too much ; and cousequelltlyl } marvellous adorned all th he cLid .
his ) rofession , he did tlmm the same exceptionnl ns scienee , hcre notice .
lIis istics of or less .
As ; and his argnmeuts , hough from so much law and cal.eful that erest a ords as to it is , at Iorris ( on .
F. \amp ; ' J. .
" " of his ' L. Eq. 151 , .
B. in the " " and cotlfirmed , the to use in all lers which callle b. A cship in Quee as oflered to ) h I ] it In those knew Archil ) Smith best him most ; for behiud reserve is to cngros$lng thought , when it is concerned tific , 11 and true heart ; and the regrets of his to the guileless of his notl could spoil or { ffect .
About the of he ) ) illness to give uP ork ; but latcr he 0lld(\fnof ; gtll.y and , building too much on a parlial , had urred imprudently to some of his old soientific hisee r. ) to on board then ) to scientific in } estigation in ress .
of ill closed his life unexpected } ' ration .
1853 he lnarried a ] , then deceased ; and he leaves six sollb and the 26th of December , 1872 .
xx APPENDIX .
1 .
Smith 's Deduction of Practical Formuloe from Poisson 's Mathematical Theory .
Let the components of the terrestrial magnetic force* , parallel to three rectangular lines of reference fixed with reference to the ship , be denoted by ; the components at the point occupied by the compass of combined magnetic force of earth and ship by ; the components of that part of the ship 's action depending on " " permanent\ldquo ; or " " subpermanent\ldquo ; magnetism , by , quantities which mathematically must be regarded as slowly rying parameters , their vnriations to be determined for each ship by ; and the components of that part of the ship 's action which depends on transiently induced magnetism by ; so that we have X ' . . . . .
( 1 ) Lastly , let , , be the values which would have if the earth 's force were of unit intensity , and in the direction of ; , , the same for ; and , , the same for By the elementary law of erposition of magnetic inductions the value of be ; and corresponding expressions will give and .
Hence , and by ( 1 ) , we have X ' , ( 2 ) These equations were first given by Poisson in 1824 , in the fifth volume of the Memoirs of the French Institute , p. 533 .
From these Smith worked out practical formulae for the main case of application , that of a ship on even keel , thus : let be the earth 's horizontal force ; the resultant of the earth 's and ship 's horizontal forces ; the dip ; the ship 's " " ngnetic course ; \ldquo ; the ship 's " " compass course ; \ldquo ; the deviation of the compass .
* 'Ihat is to say , the force experienced by a unit magnetic poJe .
The direction of the force is taken as that of the force experienced by a south pole , or ( according to Gilbert 's ol.iginal nomenclature ) the pole of a magnet which is repelled from the southern regions of the earth .
British instrument-makers unhappily mark the pole with and the south with N. The length of the needle is supposed init lsmall i comparison with the of the nearest iron of { he ship from the centre of the compass .
xxi Then , if the directions of be longitudinal from stern to head , transverse to starboard , vertically vtirds , we have ' Resolving along and perpendicular to the direction of find , after some reductions , ( 3 ) where ' tau ( 4 ) .
Dividing the first by the second , of ( 3 ) find %B which gives the tion on given letic clrso , hcn the five coeffioients $ , arc .
] } .
both llumbers by the of the second member , and by reducing , we find , .
These give the deviations expressed , though not whofly , in ternls of the compass courses .
AVhen the iations arc of moderate amount , not ceeding equation ( 6 ) or ( 7 ) may be put under the comparatively } ) convenient form , . . . .
( 8 ) in which the } iation is expressed whollv in tcrms of courses ; and this will be sufficiently exact for ) It will be seen that the arc tnral siues of the angles , E. xxii 2 .
Dygograms of Class II .
Take lengths numerically equal to X , and X ' , for the coordinates of two points .
The axes of coordinates being fixed to the ship , conceive the ship to be turned into all positions round a fixed point taken as the igin of coordinates ; or for simplicity imagine the ship to be fixed and the direction of the earth 's resultant force to take all itiollS , its gnitude remaining constant : the point will always lie on a spherical surface , below ) ; and the point will lie on an ellipsoid fixed relatively to the ship .
For we have , . . . . . .
( 9 ) where I denotes the earth 's resultant force .
Now by ( 2 ) solved for X , , we express these quantities as linear func.tions of X ' \mdash ; B. Substituting these expressions for X , , in ( 9 ) we obtain a homogeneous quadratic function of X ' , equated to , which is the equation of an ellipsoid having , for the coordinates of its centre .
It is noteworthy that the point is the position into which the point of an elastic solid is brought by a tion ( , compounded with a homogeneous strain and rotation represented by the matrix , Instead of drawing at once the dygogram surface for the resultant of the force of earth ship draw according to precisely the same rule , the dygogram surfaces for , the earth 's force , and , the force of the ship .
The first of these will be sphere of radius I. The second will be an ellipsoid having its centre at the point .
Let ON and OM be corresponding radius vectors of these two surfaces .
On OM , ON describe a parallelogram MONK .
OK is the resultant force of earth and ship at the point occupied by the ship 's compass .
Vary the construction by taking a " " triangle of forces\ldquo ; of the parallelogram , thus:\mdash ; Produce MO through to , making Om to MO ; in other words , draw the dygogram surface representing ; and of it let Om be the radius vector correspollding to OM of the -surface dygogram of the earth 's force .
Join ; through draw OK equal and parallel to .
OK ( the same line as before ) is the radius vector of the resultant dygogram surface , corresponding to ON of the spherical .
The law of correspondence between on the spherical surface and on the ellipsoid xxiii is , accordiug to ( 2 ) , that is the position to is brought\mdash ; and rotation , represented by the matrix . . . . . .
( 11 ) Take any plane section Jnrge or ircle ) of the spherical slface .
The corrcspollding lille on the ) soid i$ seclio ] , rally a ent plane from .
] ) ) rotlld a axis ; in othel .
ords , to let OZ iu a coJJe 1 hose ngle 1 , the dip .
The locus is a dins is 11 , ) of the .
The ] of is a , not gellerally iu the ) to OZ\mdash ; that is to say , generally ] .
This that clrcle Snuth 's ' Ellipse nnd Circ.le\ldquo ; , page ) .
The of the ellipse 011 of circle is the of ) for the mely the nponent of By a CUl'iou and interesting ction ( Smith that , hen a are r.ero , ] and susceptible of a , by ) altel'ed circle thd uother c ( generally ) ith a perfectly simple law of poi , to the general rule ) and directiou 01 the tant of horizont force on .
But of the comparison , b.y ( pngcs ) troduced Dygogram , taLen long ilh lous mlncal constrnction of No. I. ) , thnt .
II .
, simplified to circles , is llot confined to } hich and vanish , and so es to this a gre need theoretical interest .
It is to be { lthough fhc Shity for supposing fi and zero been ithcrto.of } as heir values very for itrv positio ) tl or all ships present any intity of iron in the turret ships , { its ) from n vest projected type ( the ' Inflexible be expucted to ) cedentedly great lues to and happy rtifice b found two circles to serYe for the " " ellipse ttnd \ldquo ; ltel .
ing the radius of the first circle from to .
lf , further , it Tbis strain must include refiexion in a plalle mirror so not to exclude cgntive values exceeding limits in tuents of to be borne in mind that , imaginary lucs of the elen ) ents b excluded , strnin } rellexiou can only alter spheres or elhpsoids to spheres or ) soids , not to byperboloids .
xxiv in gnitude and ection , and make it represent the resultant of to north and 1 to , thus including part of the ship 's force , namely to north and 1 to east , along the earth 's horizontal force in one circular dygogram , the residue of the horizontal component of the ship 's force has also a circular dygogram .
The construction thus obtained is fully described and illustrated by a diagram under the heading " " Dygogram No. II .
, above .
The proof of this is very simple .
The following is the analytical problem of which it is the solution:\mdash ; In the general equations ( 2 ) suppose to be constant , and put X ' . . . . .
( 12 ) We have ( 13 ) Now imagine two dygogram curves ( ellipses or circles ) to be constrllcted as the locus of points given by the equations ; ; ( 14 ) ; ; and let it be required to find so that these two curves may be circles ; we have four equations for these four unknown quantities .
Then , as the resultant of the radius vectors of the two concentric circles thus obtained is the resultant of the constituent ( X\ldquo ; , of the force on the compass ; and by ( 12 ) we havs only to shift the centre of one of them to the point whose coordinates are , to find two circles such that the resultant of corresponding radius vectors through the centre of one of them shall be the whole horizontal component of the force on the compass .
Thus we have Smith 's beautiful and most useful Dygogram of two Circles.\mdash ; W. T. , January 1874 .

