]\gt ; Mr. J. B. Hannay .
This I find to be the case , and to a very remarkable extent .
I am still investigating this matter , but as I have so much on hand it may be some time I can finish the work , so I wish to place on record the results so far as I have proceeded .
I find that glass , when at a temperature of about , absorbs a large quantity of gas when the latter is under a pressure of 200 atmospheres .
Oxygen and carbon dioxide have been used , and have been found to be largely absorbed , and on cooling the glass under pressure the gas is retained permanently fixed .
So much is absorbed tlJat , on quickly raising the temperature to softening temperature of the glass , the sudden escape of gas drives the glass into foam .
On slowly raising the temperature and retaining it at , most of the absorbed gas is given off without any isible action .
The frothing up of the glass by the outrush of gas is very striking .
Other silicates , and also borates and phosphates , absorb gas , especially carbon dioxide , under great pressure .
Metals absorb hydrogen and some of its compounds with carbon .
As the treatment of quantities ' of matter sufficient for analysis at these high pressures and temperatures is a matter of great difficulty , the majority of experiments being failures , the work proceeds but slowly ; but I hope during the summer autumn to be able to elucidate the subjecb quantitatively , when I shall detail the results to the Society .
XV .
" " On the States of Matter By J. B. HANNAY , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received June 4 , 1881 .
The conception which had been held from the earliest times that the three recognised states of matter were clearly separated from eacb other received a rude blow from the interpretation put upon the work of Andrews , that the liquid and gaseous states were really continuous , and that the two states could only be classified under one head\mdash ; the fluid state .
Andrews demonstrated that by ] acing a liquid under a pressure greater than the critical , and then raising the temperature , the liquid might be made to pass to an undoubtedly gaseous state without any sudden change having been visible .
Thus the of the liquid and gaseous states seemed established .
I say seemed , because I have shown in former papers that under any pressure the fluid passes at a given temperature from a state where it possesses cohesion , capillarity , or surface tension\mdash ; the distinguishing property of liquid , which prevemts it freely mixing with a true gas\mdash ; to a state where it possesses no cohesion , capillarity , nor surface tension , and where it mixes freely with any \mdash ; in fact , to the gaseous state ; and this takes place at a fixed temperature independent of pressure .
On States of Matter .
As .
Cailletet and Hautefenille have recently come to the conclusion that the continuity claimed by Andrews does not exist , and have thus corroborated my work , I wish to place on record more fuIIy the conclusions to which this work has me .
In examining a subject of this kind it is ) ortant that we should first arrive at a clear of the meaning of the language we use ; second , of the means we have of proving our knowledge of the state of matter ; and , , of the value of such proof .
First , then , as to the meaning bo be attached to the words solid , liquid , and gaseous .
The solid state is that state of matter which in all isolated portion free to move displays sufficient rigidity of its stance to retain permanent ularity of figure .
The liquid state denotes that state of mabter which in isolated portion free to move displays sufficient freedom of motion in its substance to assume a form in accordance with the forces acting upon it , but which when partially filling an enclosed space retains a permanent limiting surface } biting capillarity .
The gaseous state denotes that state of matter in which it assumes no surface nor definite , and which is so extensible that any quantity will distribute itself throughout a space .
Having defined the nomenclature , let us see what means we have of proving our knowledge of any state .
Let us conceive that we are working with what we rarely or never have\mdash ; pure substances .
When water is nearly pure it freezes perfectly transparently ; in fact , except for rigidity and difference in density it eould not be ingulshed from liquid water .
Now consider a vessel frozen quite full of pure ice ; there is no free surface to examine , therefore one test of its state is gone .
Now enormous pressure be brought to bear upon the ice till its density is reduced to that of water at the same temperature , and let the temperature be the new -point ; then there is no of knowing whether the enclosed water is liquid or solid , without applying special tests .
Either the vessel must be broken to test the rigidity of the contents or motion must be given to the vessel , dynamic tests made as to bhe behaviour of the contents ; but what wish to impress is , that sighi can teach us nothing directly as to the condition of the contents .
A free surface is required to indicatti the state of matter .
So it with the liquid and gaseous states , but just as they are nor subtle , so are the modes of erime n with them more difficult .
Let us consider the case of a liquid a space bounded by transparent sides having a piston fvee to .
When the pressure of the ) is less than that of the vapour of the liquid , there will be a space occupied by vapour over the liquid , and the surface the latter will be visible and its state nisable at a glance ; but let there be pressure upon the piston than equals that of the Yapour , then no vapour will } ) formed , and the liquid will fill the whole Mr. J. B. Hannay .
cavity , in which state the whole substance cannot be determined by sight alone , because no free surface is visible .
It might be solid for all our eyes oould tell us .
Here , again , we see that a free surface is necessary for determining the state .
In Andrews ' experiments there is no free surface , for at pressures greater than the critical a free surface is impossible .
It was towards the procural of this free surface at any pressure that my work tended .
The last definition is that of the phrase " " free surface A free surface is that surface of a solid or liquid matter which is in contact with vapour or gas , in fact , a surface in contact with a space where it has freedom of motion .
The difference between the solid and hquid states being easily recognisable , need not be stated , but that between the liquid and gaseous requires some consideration .
Regnault has shown that every liquid has a certain molecular activity corresponding to each temperature , in virtue of which it throws off from its free surface with a definite mean velocity , a certain number of molecules per unit of surface .
When the space over the liquid is limited , some molecules pass back again into the liquid .
and when this number equals that of those outgoing , the spaoe is said to be .
The , pressure which the molecules by their impacts cause upon the sides of the vessel is called the vapour tension of the liquid .
Whem the temperatul.e rises , a greater number of molecuIes are thrownoff than with the liquid , and the density of the vapour increases until it is nearly equal to that of the liquid .
But still there is a limiting surface indicating the lower portion to be liquid .
Let the temperature be now raised till the ties of the upper and lower portions are equal , then we have a state of matter in which the substance " " assumes no surface nor definite figure , and which is so extensible , that any quantity will distribute itself throughout a space as we before defined the gaseous state .
Now as to the proof that it is really in the gaseous state .
The general effect of the attraction of the molecnles of a liquid for each other and for solids , yields three measurable phenomena .
First , the property of tensile measurable in liquid films ( as soapbubbles ) , second , capillary attraction , and third , the cohesion by reason of which the neck of a drop can support it as a wire supports a load .
It has been shown by experiment , that all these three manifestations of attraction decrease as the temperature rises , and each may be used as a measurement of the other .
As " " surface tension " " is the feature of the liquid state , it was necessary to investigate how it is aifected by the gas or vapour with which it is in contact , and the results showed that the height of a liquid in a capillary tube is nob perceptibly affected by replacing the air by hydrogen , or removing everything except the vapour of the liquid .
Even when hydrogen was c.ompressed at 200 atmospheres pressure over a liquid in which it is nearly insoluble , the capillarity only fell very slightly .
It appeared 1881 .
] On the States of Matter .
that the cohesion or capillariby of a liquid depends upon temperature alone , and that pressure has no effect upon it .
PracticaIIy , it was found that the less soluble a gas is in a liquid the less effect does its presence cause at any pressure , and it is certain that had we a gas totally insoluble in a liquid , we might compress that gas under any pressure the surface , without effecting the slightest change in the of the liquid .
To return to Andrews ' experiment .
It was seen that to determine the state of every quantity of matter , it was necessary to have a free surface , but by Andrews ' mode of experimenting pressures greater than the " " critical this was impossible , the tube being filled with a homogeneous fluid ; but it is possible to hay a free surface , and to watch the alteration of the capillarity at any pressure , provided a gas can be obtained which is insoluble in the liquid .
We have seen that when a gas dissolves in aliquid , the capillarity of the mixture islower than that of the liquid alone , so by these means we can tell whether or not a gas is soluble .
In this way it was found that hydrogen was insoluble in several liquids , and thus the conditions were established for examining loss of capillarity with rise of temperature at any pressures , the hydrogen keeping a free surface -ithout aff-ecting the liquid .
It was found that the ] larity fell to zero at the same tem- perature , independent of pressure ; in other words , the matter passed from a state where it " " retains a permanent surface exhi b capillarity to a state where it " " assumes no surface nor definite figure , and which is so extensible , that any quantity will distribute itself throughout a space as we defined the liquid and gaseous states .
The state of affairs in those experiments is this:\mdash ; The takes the place of a portion of the vapour of the liquid , but unlike the molecules of the vapour , its molecules are unable to penetrate the surface of the liquid , in any quantity , but merely act by striking ainst the molecules which would otherwise pass out , and driving them back into the liquid .
Could tbere be any greater proof than this of the special properties of aliquid surface P Let the temperature be very near the critical , yet the mixture over the liquid retains a very much lower density than the liquid , as the hydrogen does its work in keeping back a portion of the vapour nxole iules .
In this case the upper does not become equal in density to the lower portion of the fluid as in Cagniard de la Tour 's experiment ; when the critical temperature is reached the meniscus disappears and diffusion occurs between the upper and lower portions .
This phenomenon is seen at any pressure up to five times the ' critical \ldquo ; pressure , showing that the change of state is } enilent of pressure .
Gaseity is dependent upon molecular velocity activity , and to give it this velocity a very strong cohesion must be overcome .
The velocity not in any way dependent upon the pressure or upon the size of the vessel , and VOL. xxxu .
2 On the States of Matter .
therefore the gaseous state proper cannot be altered by pressure alone .
The liquid is thus bounded by an isotherm which marks the thermal activity equivalent to attraction of the lecules , and the continuity of the liquid and gaseous states enunciated by Andrews is only apparent .
The passage from the liquid to the gaseous state might be represemted by a curve where .
the line representing decrease of capillarity passes through zero to a negative side , which reality represents repulsion .
In other words , the curve for liquid represents excess attraction over repulsion , that for gas excess of repulsion over attraction .
The of this cohesion in liquids has been too much overlooked by the statistical method of looking at the states of matter .
It is something very great compared with the amount of energy required to give the molecular velocity required to sustain the gaseous state .
Let us by Dr. Joule 's method make a calculation .
Suppose the molecules in a gram of steam to be at rest it would require 92 gramdegrees , or , in absolute measure , 383,161 , to give them velocity enough to exert a pressure ofeone atmosphere .
Now the energy added to cause a gram of to become steam at one a , tmosphere pressure is 540 gram-degrees , or bout six times as much work to be done .
And this is not all .
We started from rest in the other calculation , here we start water whose molecules are in motion .
Five-sixths of the has gone to overcome the cohesion of ths liquid .
As we know , that to bring matter to the same state we must expend the same amount of energy , and as we may bring matter to the gaseous state either by boiling or by Andrews ' apparently continuous method ; the first case we would say the heat used up represents the latent heat of steam , and in the other the specific heat of water , but they are both really measures of the thermal value of the energy required to overcome the attraction of the molecules .
When , therefore , this energy has been given to the water , the cohesion has been overcome and the liquid state passed , whether or not it has been visible to our eyes .
Thus from all evidence , experimental and theoretical , the liquid state has a limit , and the liquid and gaseous states are not really continuous .
definition of the gaseous state as a state of matter not a]terable by pressure alone leads us to a clear division matter into two states , the vaporous and gaseous , the fi alterable , the second unalterable } ) pressure alone .
Another distinction betweeri vaponr and gas is this : gases are solvents of solids ; vapours are not Let a liquid be coloured by having some volatile coloured solid dissolved in and let it be heated under pressure , the liquid will remain 1881 .
] On the White Btood Corpusctes .
coloured while the vapour will be quite colourless , and will remain so up to the critical point .
Now let the fluid be raised above its critical point , all the internal space will be coloured , showing that ( the contents being gaseous ) the gas dissolves the solid while the vapour does not .
We have here a clear separation of the two kinds of aeriform fluids .
The definition which I applied to the gaseous state at the beginning of this paper does not apply to the vaporous state , as we know that any quantity of it will not distribute itself throughout a space , because we try to force vapour into a space already saturated , we cause a of state , and a portion of the matter becomes liquid .
Thus , instead only two we have four distinct states of matter : solid , liquid , vaporous , and gaseous .
XVI .
" " The Relation of the White Blood Corpuscles to the ulation of the \ldquo ; By L. C. ooLDRIt ) , B.Sc. Loud .
, Physiologische Anstalt , Leipzig .
Communicated by Dr. LAUDER BRUNTON , F.B.S. Received June 8 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The following is an abstract of some researches which have been carried by the author in the ical Institute of the University of Leipzig .
It has long been known that the white blood corpuscles are concerned in the coagulation of the blood .
Alexander Schmidt , to whom we principally owe our knowledge of this fact , has distinctly formulated the part they play .
He considers them as the source of two of the three factors which are , according to his well-known theory , necessary for the formation of fibrin .
The two components which arise from the white blood corpuscles are , according to Schmidt , obulin and fibrin ferment .
The recent ches of Hammarsten have made it very probabIe that paraglobuli.n is not directly concerned in the formation of fibrin .
If this be true , and if the views of Schmidt the participation of the white corpuscles be also correct , the latter must necessarily only play a ve ry subordinate part ; that is , they must be ferment producers .
In order to arrive at xact- conclusions on this subject , the author has considered it necessary : .
To attain some more than we at present possess concerning the chemical nature of the white blood corpuscles . .
To have exact data for the amount of white blood corpuscles which disappears during coagulatiou .

