]\gt ; The Origin of Ionisation from Carbon .
By O. W. , D.Sc .
, F.B.S. ( Received November 25 , 1913 , \mdash ; Read January 29 , 1914 .
) earlier work , Dr. Pring says : to a high degree the containing vessel .
electronic emission from incardescent solids .
temperature .
mediate effect oerted bthe gas contact with the solid states : surrounding gas .
" " While it is difficult to prove definitely that there is no electronic emission from the heated carbon itself , it obvious that is exceedingly 3 small compared with ionisation which can be attributed to ordinary al change $ The object of the present note is to point out certain conditions affecting the arrangement of apparatus used by these authors which make it quite certain , in the opinion of the present writer , that none of the statements 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. 344 ( 1913 ) .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 23 , p. 199 ( 1912 ) .
" " Richardson , 'Phil .
Trans 1903 , , vol. 201 , p. 497 ; PhiL Mag 1912 , vol. 24 pp. 737-744 ; ibid. , 1913 , vol. 26 , p. 346 instead of cm .
Thus , if the conditions which held during the experiment 1 were exactly those contemplated in these calculations , the electrons would only be prevented from reaching the electrode with the largest heating ; currents which were used .
But the actual conditions , in the experiments referred to , are much less favourable to the escape of electrons than those which we have assumed .
The collecting electrode was of comparatively small size , so that most of the potential fall would occur in its immediate neighbourhood and the electric field near the rod would be greatly weakened .
Even so , the relatively strong The Origin of Thermal Ionisation from Carbon .
177 part of the field would be confined to the equatorial region ; there would be very little near the ends .
Moreover , the glass bulb would tend to acquire a .
negative charge , which would help to shield the rod from the field arising from the positively electrode .
Finally , any electron which found itself in the region occupied by the relatively strong electrostatic field would quickly be deflected out of this region by the action of the magnetic field .
ectrons wravel adistance fqual theThus , xperiments warger currents , none omitted away a distance comparable with this .
Even with the presumably ) smaller heating currents employed at the lower temperatures , one cannot be certain that there ought to be any measurable leakage in these experiments arising from electronic emission .
Conclusions drawn from these calculations are valid only at the very lowest pressures , when the amount of gas present is too small to affect either the nature of the ions or their motion .
It remains to consider whether it is necessary to attribute to chemical action the origin of the mcreased currents which are observed when traces of different gases are present .
There are at least two ways in which the presence of a gaseous atmosphere would influence the number of ions collected by the positive electrode .
The first of thesS is by the mechanical interference of the molecules with the motion of the ions through mutual collisions .
This kind of effect would undoubtedly produce a large increase in the current received if the pressure were increased by very considerable amounts ; but one would hardly expect it to be important at pressures below mm. , where the mean free path of an electron is comparable with 10 cm .
in the simpler gases .
The second way is by direct combination of the electrons with the molecules and atoms of the surrounding gas .
This would result in the formation of ions possessing masses of atomic magnitude and correspondingly smaller values of .
These ions would not be deviated appreciably by the magnetic fields , but would follow the lines of electric force fairly closely until they reached the positive electrode .
This explanation of the nature of the currents observed by Dr. Pring at very low .
pressures is supported by the order of comparative efficiency of the different gases , as well as by the large specific effects produced by such small quantities of gas .
The order is , in fact , very much the same as that found by Sir J. J. Thomson*for the relative.frequency of occurrence of the corresponding negatively charged atoms and molecules in the positive rays .
It may be well to add that the currents at the higher temperatures cannot be due simply to the emission of electrons from the hot carbon under the ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' , vol. 89 , p. 1 ( 1913 ) .
The interference of the gas molecules with the motion of the electrons ; ) and ( b ) The combination of the electrons with atoms and molecules of the gases .
The gnetic Properties of Iron .
179 The large specific effects produced by traces of different gases seem to indicate that ( b ) may be an important factor .
4 .
The iments cannot be held either to prove that the emission of electrons from hot carbon is an immediate consequence of chemical action I. between the carbon and the surroundiug gases : or to invalidate those theories which regard this effect as a physical property of the hot solid .
The Magnetic Properties of lron when Shielded from the 's Magnetism .
By ERNEST WILSON .
( Communicated by Prof. J. A. Fleming , F.R.S. Received January 10 , \mdash ; Read February 26 , 1914 .
) The primary object of the experiments described in this paper is to examine the magnetic properties of iron under small magnetic forces when shielded from the earth 's magnetism .
In a previous paper*experiments were described in which hese mnetic properties were examined at low forces , and hysteresis loops obtained maximum values of the magnetic induction as low as .
The specimen , which was of the same material as used in the present experiments , was exposed to the influence of the earth 's magnetism , and it is this influence has now been removed as far as possible .
The specimen is of ring form and is built up to an axial length of cm .
of stampings of an alloy of iron known as " " Stalloy containing 3 per cent. of silicon .
The internal and external diameters of each stamping are and cm .
respectively , and the thickness varies from to cm .
The secondary winding is next to the stampings and has 177 turns of copper wire mm. diameter insulated by cotton impregnated with paraffin .
The primary or magnetising winding has 10 turns of copper strip 19 mm. wide and mm. thick covered with insulating tape .
The shield is built up to a length of 47 cm .
of stampings of transformer iron mm. thick .
The internal and external diameters of each stamping are and cm .
respectively .
At each end are discs of soft iron cm .
diameter which together with two square end plates make up an overall length of 56 cm .
The shield is firmly clampsd by four bolts passing through *'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 80 , p. 548 1908 ) .

