]\gt ; Total Eclips of By H. ( Rcceived Novcml ) , 1905 .
) TS .
Section .
Page 1 .
Introductory .
Choice of Station 56 2 .
Facilities 68 3 .
, 58 4 .
Itinerary and Summary of Diary 58 5 .
The Position of the Station , 59 6 .
Time Observations 60 .
General Description of the Installation 61 8 .
Visual Observations .
Extension of Streamers 62 9 .
, , sation of 's during Eclipse 63 WORK .
10 .
-Prism Spectograph with Slits 64 11 .
Coelostat and Fixed Cameras .
ement of Hnt 65 12 .
Signals for the Operations during the Eclipse - 67 13 .
Dallmeyer raphic CaInera 69 14 .
Savart and Comparison Cameras 70 15 .
Nicol Camera : 16 .
Objective-Grating Camera 17 .
( 5 18 .
Short Focus Camera 19 .
Development of Plates S l.\mdash ; I/ urodor/ Choice of The expedition to report refers was one of those organised by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee of Royal Society and the Royal Astronomical Society ; it was by a grant llade by the GoveInnlent Grant Committee .
uelma was chosen for the site of the tions , as an inland station between Stax , which was selected ) ) edition from Observatory , , and ilippeville , which it at expected Norma ] ] would is kilonletres from Bona , kilonletl t from Philippeville , nearest coast of Sea ; it lies at a of about sea-level on south side of the Valley of Seybouze , hillsvhicl ) in , front about 3100 feet at ]ilomel t to the , to itbout at 11 kilornetres on the south , where lies celebrated ouna , Preliminary Report of the Eclipse Guelma .
57 " " the sleeping lady so called from the resemblance of its silhouette to the form of a woman .
( For the position of the observing hut , see p. 59 .
) At the end of November , 1904 , I had made enquiries from M. Trepied , the Director of the Algiers Observatory , about the conditions to be expected in Eastern Algeria at the end of .
M. Trepied replied in a way that recalled very vividly the cordial welcome which he extended to Professor Turner , Mr. Wesley , and myself at Algiers on the occasion of the total eclipse of the sun , 1900 , May 28 .
The information , which he kindly collected from the Service Meteorologique de l'Algerie , the idea that Guelma was a desirable station to occupy , and , the chances of perfectly favourable conditions at the end of August were not high , yet , when expressed in statistical form , they appeared vastly better than our actual experiences in the week which included the eclipse day .
The following record of weather conditions about 1 to 2 o'clock ( the hour of the total phase of the eclipse was o'clock ) , makes it clear that the expedition was very fortunate:\mdash ; FridaY , August 25 .
Storm , rain and cloud .
Saturday , , , 26 .
Sky completely clouded .
Sunday , , , 27 .
Violent thunderstorm and dust storm .
Monday , , , 28 .
Sky completely clouded .
Tuesday , , , 29 .
Sky considerably veiled by Wednesday , , , 30 .
Superbly clear sky ( eclipse day ) .
Thursday , , , 31 .
Sky completely clouded .
Fortunately at other ours on most of these days there was plenty of sunshine available for the adjustment of the various instruments .
The record for the previous forCnight that we were at was much more favourable , with something like 11 clear days and three clouded about the eclipse hour .
I accepted M. Tre'pied 's invitation to share bhe opportunities afforded by the municipal authorities of Guelma , and to install our instrumellfs in grounds of the Boys ' School of the Commune ; and the observations were accordingly made within a few yards of the installations of the iers expedition under M. pied assisted by ambaud , Sy , and enaux , and of the eilles expedition , of Messieurs Stephan and elly , assisted by Dr. P. tephan .
The school enclosure , with its shady trees and its capacious class-rooms and covered tnenoirs , which M. Bachotet , the genial director , encouraged the various expeditions to use , proved an irable site not only for the eclipse operations , but also for the undisturbed preparation and adjustmen of the instruments .
Mr. H. F. Newall .
Prelirninary Report the [ Nov. 17 , The expedition is indebted to the French ities for facilities in taking the instruments into Algeria frec of duty and of insl ) ection t the Custom House ; to the de l'Arrondissement , to the municipal authorities of Guelma for their )( permission by every friendly attention to further the objects of the expedition ) to install the instruments in the.yard of the cole C ; to M. Joly , financier ; to M. Tre'pied , the ( !
ctor of ) iers Observatoly , for ever ready aid ; to M. Bachotet , the Director of School , who devoted his summer vacation to assisting the expeditions to utilise the school } ) remises to the best ; to the Steam ation Company for their liberal ement by hieh the cases of instruments were transported free of fronn London to Marseilles and back .
I have great pleasure in acknowledgi n unusual amount of volunteer assistance in the eclipse operations .
To Vallace I am under ooreat rations , not only for the admirable way in which he carried out his important part in the programme of rvation on the day of the eclipse , but also for his unstinted tance i np the instruments .
He travelled out to Algeria as a volunteer , and his frolll the beginning of the preparation , until the ] ) tion ( September 12 ) of the of the instruments was the ulore so on account of his experience in Sumatra in of 1901 .
Mr. H. H. Champion , of Uppingham , our party at Guelma on , and gave valuable help in the } preparations . .
A. H. ooke , naster of Aldenham School , Mr. J. Mello Wadmore , M.A. ( Oxon ) , F.C.S. , Science Master at Aldenham School , al.rived at Guelma on August 28 , and at once took palt in the rehearsads of the eclipse operations , in which Mrs. Newall also joined .
It is a great pleasure to my tedness to all for their vnluable asHistttnce .
The part that each took in the observations will appear later on in this report .
of July .
] Cure from ( of the P. and O. \ldquo ; Gibraltar to illcs .
August .
Arrival at Marseilles .
4 .
about of instrn1nents .
Left Malseillesvith on Ville \ldquo ; 1905 .
] Eclipse Observations at , Algeria . .
Arrival at Philippeville , 8 .
Arrival at Bona , 4 , and at Guelma , 6 9 .
Instruments delivered at the Ecole Communale .
Site chosen .
The foJlowing three weeks were very fully occupied with setting up the pilltlrs , the tent , and the instruments .
In spite of the complete preparation of the before they left England , the time allowed for up in meant was found full short ; two more days after the rehearsals would have been a welcome addition to our time of preparation , in allowing leisurely final arrangements of the various items of the programme .
The day temperatures were commonly over F. , and times over vice 1 was recorded .
The air was usually very dry .
August 28 .
First rehearsals in afternoon .
29 .
Rehearsals in morning , afternoon , and in snd in the dark . .
The day of the eclipse .
Weather conditions perfect .
Shortly after the eclipse , I despatched the following telegram to the Boyal Society :\mdash ; ' : Superb weather conditions at Guelma .
Observations successfully made .
Brilliant corona .
Polar streamers remarkably , extending towards Mercury over three rees .
Corona of maximum sun-spot type , but unusuwl dark rays .
Splendid prominences The next week was devoted to developing all the photographs taken the eclipse , and in subsidiary photographs and observations requisite for the proper interpretation of the eclipse results .
September 5 .
Dismantling and of instruments begun .
11 .
Cases closed and despatched Bona for Marseilles .
12 .
Departure from Guelma Constantine for Philippeville .
16 .
Arrival at Marseilles .
Arrangements about transport of instruments to Lon don .
18 .
Arrival at Cambridge , with eclipse photographs .
27 .
Delivery of instruments at Cambridge , in sound condition .
S 5.\mdash ; The Position of the Station .
In the list of observatories given in the ' ssance des Temps ' the position of the mosque at Guelma , as determined in the trigonometrical survey , Latitude , N. ; longitude , E. of Paris .
From the -scale { own map of Guelma , which by the kindness of the municipal authorities I was able to study , the site of the hut was Mr. H. F. Newall .
Preliminary Report of the [ Nov. 17 , found to be 400 metres from the mosque in the N.E. quadrant , and the northerly and easterly components were respectively 76 metres and 393 metres ; whence the ular values are found to be and , taking the difference of longitude between Paris and Greenwich as we have for the position of the hut where the obsel'vations were made : Latitude N. itude .
of Greenwich .
to the details given in the Eclipse Circular ( No. 19 ) of the Nautical Office , the line of centlal totality vould pass about 2 miles to the south of the observing station .
S 6.\mdash ; Timc By the kindness of M. Tre'pied and M. Rambaud I was able to compare my chronometer watch ( Frodsham , 1862 ) with the chronometer of the Algiers Expedition .
M. Stephan also was good to compare watch with chronometer Vissiere , just after first contact , which 1 did not observe .
These comparisons the following results for the error of my watch : Error .
( i ) ( ii ) , 5 .
49.4 ( iii ) , , The .
table ives a comparison betweell ) redicted and observed of the contacts , the " " predicted\ldquo ; , calculated from the 'Nautical Almal ) , observed time of second contact is that when the , Go was Wadlace , the .
crescent on the 1905 .
] Eclipse Observatio made , Algeria .
blue-glass focussing screen of the Dallmeyer camera .
My exposures with the rating camera at recorded moments give results which lead me to believe that the signal was correctly given .
The observed time of third contact is that recorded by Mr. Wallace when he was looking at the corona through a direct-vision prism , and saw the bright crescents disappear .
It seems to me that this time may possibly be five seconds late .
The fourth contact was observed by me through the theodolite attached to the coelostat , Mr. Champion recording with my watch .
I think my call was between 5 and 10 seconds late .
S eneral Description of the Provisio made for making ( A ) a few visual observations , but the chief work was ( B ) the collection of photographic records of various phenomena during the total phase of the eclipse:\mdash ; A. The visual observations were to relate\mdash ; ( i ) to the extensions of the longer streamers , and special attention was to be devoted to extensions in the direction of the planet Mercury , which the ephemerides showed would be at a distance of about from the sun in a direction not far removed from that of the prolonged projection of the solar axis details , ; ( ii ) to the plane of polarisation of the earth 's atmosphere during the eclipse as determined by means of a mounted Savart polariscope ; these observe tions were to be utilised for setting the polarisers used for the raphic records ( for details , see p. 63 ) .
B. The photographic work all involved the use of clockwork for stationary images of the corona .
And , as two clocks were utilised , the installation may be best described in eneral terms as consisting of two a powerful raph ( see p. 64 ) and ( ii ) a set of seven varied instruments , all fixed closely together , and pointed in the proper direction towards a coelostat , which , being driven by clockwork , gave a stationary of the corona in each of the instruments .
The first instrument was devoted to an attempt to photograph the spectra of the eastern and western equatorial regions of the corona in order to provide means for deducing the velocity of rotation of the corona .
The object of the second group of instruments was to raphic records of the forms and extension of the streamers of the corona , and also to proyide material for a study of the htness of the corona at different distances from the sun , in continuation of work which was inaugurated by the Committee several years ago , and to which Abney , Thorpe and Turner have mainly contributed by their researches ; ( ii ) photographic recor of the phenomena of polarisation .
H. F. Newall .
Preliminary of the [ Nov. 17 , of the corona by three modes of attack ; and ( iii ) raphic record of the flash spectrum under very high dispersion by meaus of an objective raph .
Preliminary notes of each of these lines of ation will now be iven .
S 8.\mdash ; Observations .
sion of Slream , etc. of oronal S.\mdash ; The corona was obviously of the type associated with the maximum in the sun-spot cycle .
The absence of any , like polar features accompanied by ularked torial extension of the corona wss noted by all the observers .
The oeneral brightness of the corona was distributed round the whole limb to approximately the sslle radial distance except for four or five marked streamers .
The longest of the prominent streamers were those which ) close to the south pole of the sun .
The estimates of extension differed very much : Estimate of extension of Observer .
streamP .
Stars and planets seen .
H. H. diameters .
ulus , not Mercury .
A. H. C. No estimate .
Iercury seen .
H. .
N. Four-fifths of way from to .
Melcury seen , no stars .
Mr. Champion prepared charts relative positions of the sun and Mercury , and some bright stars ; and during the eclipse he noted the general positions of recorcled positions coincide remalkably with the streamers on the He , like myself , was struck by the fact that the easterly of prominent strealners , above , other below , seemed to be in continuous line approximately tangential to the sun 's observation which is not borne out by the raphic records .
But the extensions indicated in his sketch in no case diameters .
For my own part , I devoted attention to following out the extension of the streamers in the direction of Mercury to their rthest tr ceable limit .
These two streamers , ether with one on the side , once struck my attention because each seemed to be flanked by a ] edge , which the appearance of dark rays in the coloua .
of such rifts in a three-dimensional corona is a matter rellection .
Filiform sbadows or filiform regions free from luminous matter could hardly appear as dalk rifts , and we left with alternatives ( 1 ) of rifts of breadth , but of great depth and length , or ( 2 ) of raylike fions of absorptive matter , or of a corona in which the luminosity is , on the whole , confined to rays .
Analogous reflections as to the origin of the contrast between the 1905 .
] Eclipse Guelma , Algeria .
dark and bright rays often seen at sunset near shade-producing clouds lead one to the simple pposition that the light-scattering particles are mainly confined to a stratum of air at about the same height as the clouds .
) When thus carefully followed the streamers could be traced very far , till the contrast was far smaller than one would ever hope to catch in a photograph unless it was taken with such precautions as would be needed to portray delicate cirrus cloud .
Still I confess it was a surprise to me to find that the furthest extension recorded on any of our aphs is barely , or , say , 3 diameters , as compared with my visual estimate , which ives something less than 6 and more than 5 diameters .
S9.\mdash ; Visual Observations of the of the durincf Eclipsj .
A Savart polariscope , mounted with pointer and graduated circle , was pointed to the region of the sky near the eclipsed sun , 30 seconds second contact .
I found the polarisation not very strong ; in no position of the Savart were the bands very marked .
I was pzepared to find vertical polarisation , and the corresponding reading of the pointer when the bands were extinguished by rotating the polariscope in the usual way , would have been , with a white-centred band system at the reading actually in the counter-clockwise clockwise Without assuring myself that the band system was white ) tred in the vertical position of the instrument , I interpreted my readings to mean that the plane of polarisation was nearly vertical , and adjusted the hotographic instruments ( p. 70 ) accordingly .
Now the actual mean readi meant that the plane of polarisation was inclined either at to the vertical , sloping downwards to the left hand , or else at to the horizontal , sloping downwards to the right .
Unmistakable evidence afforded by the photographs shows that the atmospheric polarisation the nearly horizontal plane .
The , moreover , shows that at Guelma the atmosphere diffused as much polarised light as was emitted by the corona at a distance of about diamelers from the moon 's limb .
( See p. 71 .
) two facts , so important in the study of the polarisation phenomena of the corona , make me regret that by an , resulting from an accident before leaving England , I had omitted to pack the set of five Savart polariscopes prepared for a complete survey of the atmospheric polarisation on lines similar to those in part carried out by Mrs. Newall at Mr. H. F. Newall .
Report of the [ Nov. 17 , Algiel'S in 1900 .
The was overed a week before the eclipse , and though the instrum nts were sent out in response to and arrived two days before the eclipse , it was impossible in the then condition of the sky to provide for the rehearsals eeded for a proper set of observations .
With reference to the intensity of atmosphelic polarisation observed me at four recent eclipses , the following nary is not without interest:\mdash ; 1898 .
India .
Polarisation intense ( dry air ) .
1900 .
giers .
, , fairly strollg ( on sea-board ) .
1901 .
Sumatra .
, , ( moist air ) . .
Guelma .
, , rather weak ( air ) .
If one may hazard numbers on menlories I would Jnark the intensities 10 , 7 , , 3 .
There is much to be said for the view th pheric risation during eclipses is in great measure due to the fact that the ] heres diffuses the polarised light of the corona , which in general must have a determinate resultant plane of polarisation , upon the distribution of brightness in the radially polarised corona .
PHOTOGRAPHIC WOR S Slits .
same four-prism spectrograph , with two slits , as was used in in Sumatra and as was described in the ' vol. C9 , p. 220 , was used in an attempt to photograph of the nstern and western equatorial regions of the corona simultaneously , determination by a spectroscopic method of the velocity of ) of .
The only change in the instrument consisted in the in the sides of the tube just in front of the slits , in order to of the slits , if required .
results obtained , for the light of the ( minntes of arc ) from sun 's limb f.ailed to ) the fiic plate .
[ Mr. ysoll infolms me that in aphs of ]Jectruln , at aphic action plate not seen at greater distances than )from the linlb .
] in the preparations or ( luring , eclipse itself was omitted which could have made the attempt .
The subsidiary raphs of the spectrum of the light of the sky , obtained immediately before and after the cclipse , showed that the instrument in perfect order .
The 1905 .
] Eclipse Observations made at , Algeria .
image of the corona on the slits looked splendidly bright ; the driving of the clockwork was excellent , thanks to the reat care that Mr. Champion was enough to devote to the rating of it .
I felt convinced that success was achieyed , but in spite of all efforts in development of the plate , no trace of spectrum was obtained .
I decided not to dismount the instrument immediately after the eclipse , but to repeat , in the conditions at Guelma , some experiments made several years to test the limits of the light-grasping power of the ument .
Accordingly , a week later , raphs of the spectrum of the moon at first quarter were obtained with various exposures from 20 seconds to 180 seconds ; results which , taken in connection with the results of the photographic investigations of the polarisation of the corona , prove that the use of so powerful a raph was based on too vine hopes as to the htness of the corona at 3 ' from the sun 's limb , even under the exceptionally favourable conditions experienced at Guelma .
I am led to infer , from the strength of the spectrum obtained on September 5 by an exposure of 20 seconds to the limb at first quarter , that the unpolarised of the corona at 3 ' from the sun 's limb cannot be as as one-eighth of the brightness of the moon 's surface .
Turner 's law of brightness , which refers to the total ( polarised and unpolarised ) light of the corona , would show that the brightness at 3 ' is one-third of the htness at the sun 's limb .
S ll.\mdash ; The Cce lostat and Fixed coelostat has a mirror of silvered glass 16 inches ( 40 cm .
) in diameter , wolked by the late Dr. Common , to whom eclipse observels are so much indebted for his deyelopment of the coelostat method .
The was made by Cooke and Sons , of York , and the instrument was used to supply to seven fixed ctimeras desclibed in the following paragraphs .
This instrument has been constructed with a view to its mounted for solar observations at .
By a fortunate coincidence it happens that the latitude of Cambridge is little from the -latitude of Guelma , and thus it was possible to design the instrument so that it would serve for observations in Algeria if the wedge-shaped casting that supports the polar axis on its hypotenusal face were overturned , the side that is to be vertical at Cambridge being laid approximately horizontal at Guelma .
Mr. Wallace succeeded admirably in rating the excellent clockwork supplied with the instrument .
The incidence of the coronal light on the mirror was to be ately 1 .
Thus the reflected beam was of elliptical section with VOL. LXXVII.\mdash ; A. Mr. H. F. Newall .
Preliminary Report of the [ Nov. 1 minor and major axes respectively and 16 inches .
The small incidence of the light on the silvered glass could not rive rise , as was proved by direct experiments of a delicate nature , to polariqation effects of a kind likely to interfere with the riscopic otions .
The azimuth and altitude of the sun were calculated to be and respectively , at the time of mid-totality .
The va1ious instruments which wele to be supplied with light were fixed parallel to one another on a brick pillar , and were pointed downwards towards the coelostat in a direction whose azimuth and altitude were and respectively on the day of the eclipse .
The sun 's declination was changing from day to day by amounts that made it impossible to fix the instruments at the outset in their final position , without forfeiting the chances of utilising the might for adjusting purposes .
the of instruments was built together on the top of the rectangular box known as the double tube , which served as a camera with partitions in it for three of the instruments .
The whole was then bodily moved on the fixed pillar from day to day to suit the sun 's declination , and it was firmly fixed in final position on the morning of the eclipse .
The following instruments were supplied with from the coelostat:\mdash ; 1 .
The Dallmeyer objective of 4 inches aperture used with a ative lens to give a nified i of the corona for measurement of the brightness : diameter of the moon inches .
on plates inches inches .
( See S13 .
) 2 .
A Cooke objective of inches ( mm. ) effective aperture , rivin imagcs of the corona for comparison with the polarised taken simultaneously with the Savart camera ( No. :1 ) , and with the Nicol camera ; diameter of the moon inch ( 10 mm ( See S14 .
) .
The Savart camera of inches ( 37 mm. ) effective aperture , with a large Nicol prism and Savart plates , each 14 mm. thick , in front of the objective , to give an image of the corona with Savart bands for ation of the polarisation of the corona .
( See S14 .
) These three instruments were in the ' double tube\ldquo ; which was provided with nine double plate-holders , carl.ying two plates inches inches which could be ) osed simultaneously by a quarter of one shutter ; of the in each exposure received two , separated along a diagonal impressed by cameras Nos. 2 and 3 ectively .
4 .
The Nicol camera , consisting of a Cooke raphic objective of 2 inches ( 01 mm. ) effective apertul.e and inches ( 170 cm .
) focal length , 1905 .
] clipse Observations made used with an exceptionally large and fine Nicol polarising prism which transmitted a 2-inch beam and gave an image of the moon inch ( 17 mm. ) in diameter .
( See S15 .
) 5 .
A photographic camera with a owland grating of ruled surface inches inches ( 126 mm. mm. ) and 14,4.38 lines to the inch , in front of a 4-inch photovisual of focal length 72 inches , by Cooke and Sons of York .
This camera was supplied by light from the coelostat beam by means of an auxiliary silvcred mirror which reflected the light in such a way as to give the crescents conveniently disposed with respect to the plane of dispersion .
The axis of the camera was below the main faggot of instruments and at right angles to its length .
( See S16 ) .
6 .
A polarising spectrograph , arranged in such a way as to throw two polarised of the spectrum of the corona side by side on the same raphic plate , for comparison of the and radial components of the coronal light at different parts of the spectrum .
( See S17 .
) 7 .
A simple camera of short focus ( 11 inches ) and aperture to a small picture of the corona with long extension of streamers .
was supplied by a totally reflecting prism , which was set in the beam and sent the light downwards in a vertical plane .
( See S18 .
) The accommodation of instruments within a single hut , covering a ground plan 10 feet 6 inches feet 2 inches , needed careful ement .
Four pillars were built , one for the coelostat , another for the four-prism spectrograph , a third for the fixed cameras , and the fourth for the objective grating camera .
S 12.\mdash ; The Signals for the Operations th clipse .
The signals for the operations were given partly from chronometer but chiefly from observed of crescent of the photosphere .
Seconds were count , ed aloud in time with the beats of carefully adjusted metronome .
Each observer recorded the epuchs of his operations in terms of the count , except myself , for whom Mrs. Newall recorded .
All observers were at their stations at attention for several minutes before seconl( contact .
Mr. Wallace , who had charge of the double tube nera and was watching the of the crescent upon the blue focussing plate of the Dallnleyer telephotographic camera , called out the " " Stand by when the length of the crescent fitted a template which I had supplied him with and which was calculated to give the length of the crescent at 32 seconds before second contact .
At the , Mr. Champion Mr. H. F. Newall .
the [ Nov. 1 with the metronome and continued it until the " " Go\ldquo ; was given by Mr. Wallace at the moment of ' of all photospheric light .
occurred just after Mr. mpion called ( 29 Then Mr. Wadnlore b a fresh count from 1 up to 60 and from 1 to 60 .
Next Mr. Champion renewed the third in intentionally monotonous voice , the entry upon the fourth minute being indicated by a change of voice , which was to denote that the last seconds of totality were passing .
He continued third contact , until released by myself , who , after the operations for the second flash spectrum , his count with the chronometer , so as to get the chronometer reading with the count ab moment totality .
observer was instructed as to the duration of the desired exposure in his ramme .
He noted the count at the beginning of each exposure on a papel on hich the duration already recorded , and , by the two numbers , he knew up to what count he leisure to look at the corona .
Thus on exposure of 30 seconds at count 37 : the numbers were recorded , leisure terminated at 7 . .
Wallace had of the double tube .
Mr. Chaml ) set the avaI t to the reading , which I gave to him fCer n visual observations of the atmospheric lJolarisation ; and he also made the exposules the polarisin .
spectrograph .
Mr. Cooke carl.ied out the programme for , after I had set the duated scale in the proper position in tCCOl d auce with the visual observations ; his operations in the and also an exposure of 30 seconds , four times the eclipse .
1Ir .
Wadmore made a long with the short focus canlel.a .
Mrs. recorded the epochs of and whilst I mani ) the ( camera ; and she secured ) totality with the ) camera .
My inclnded tions with the four-prism raph , viz. , } raphs of the spectrunl of the sky about after totality and also a photograph of of the corona totality ; ( b ) operations with the , the of the camera and fine adjustment of the to , done about utes before and exposures ( six fur ) for first and second ' flash\ldquo ; spectrit ; the visual of the ) and then the prism and circle the exposures Vicol cnera and also the reading for the cye observatious of the extensions of the corona , etc. ; ( j ) the exposule to the of the corona of a } ) ] plate behind a set of Abney uares for phutometric purposes .
All the operations in the ere lehearsed until each obsPlvel 905 .
] Eclipse made at was satisfied that his part was under control .
The last of the rehearsals were held on the evening before the eclipse day , both in the twilight and in the dark with lamps and candles , a procedure which was found very helpful as a preparation for the actual eclipse .
S Telephotographic Camera .
Nine plates were available for exposure , and were utilised as follows:\mdash ; Plate No. 6 was not ) osed during totality ; it was to be at Mr. Wallace 's discretion to expose or not according to the interval needed between Nos. 3 and 4 for the visual observations of the atmospheric polarisation which I was to make .
The plate was exposed the day after the eclipsP , to get three of the sun at intervals long ensure the separation of the images ; the resulting negative serves to give the direction of the parallel ( daily motion ) on the plate .
Sir W. 's standard squares were impressed on many of the plates just before development .
The photographic squares used for reduction of intensity are the same as were used by me in Sumatra in 1901 , were made by Sir W. Abney .
In all cases the standard candle was set at a distance of five feet from the plate , and was backed by a black cloth screen .
The exposures given for the several plates are entered in the appropriate column below , in a table which gives formation about development , Mr. H. F. Newall .
Report of the [ Nov. 17 , No. that the ( so ) rilliant in the naked-eye view of the corona ) form a long bank , over round the sun 's limb , northwards from the equator , and extending about 2 ' from the limb radially .
The lower corona in its neighbourhood is full of complicated structure .
The other plates show a corona of the type connected with the epoch of maxinlum in the sun-spot cycle ; markedly long streamers are shown , out near south pole ; each of these appears as a double bright ray , with a dark lay in the middle .
most marked appearance of a daIk ray is that on the southerly edge of the longest streamer ou the eastern limb of the sun .
and Comparison jras .
These cameras were in one comparment of the double tube , and , as the exposures were made simultaneously with those of the plates in phic camera , there is no need to here the of the exposure .
to kind of plate , and the posures for the standa1d squares , iven on the next lIetol used as in every case .
Savart and Nicol were resct veen Nos. and 4 .
Plate No. was exposed on day three images of th sun in camera , for of the direction of the on the plate .
, 4 , were taken tions of exposure in eometrical progression , so that the lalised i on No. 4 bc }with the rised i on No. 8 , so on .
1905 .
] Eclipse at Guelma , No. 7 was the most sensitive plate used , and the development was somewhat forced , in order to bring out faint extensions of the corona .
It has turned out to be one of the most interesting plates of the series , for the bands due to the atmospheric polarisation are visible both above and below the sun .
These bands are out of step in the band system over the corona , and prove conclusively ( account being taken of the visual observations , p. 63 ) that if the polarisation of the corona is radial , the polarisation of the sky just above and below the sun was nearly horizontal at Guelma .
Moreover , it is seen on the negative that the two band systems neutralise one another , and cease to be perceptible along two linear regions above and below the sun at a distance of about diameters from the sun 's limb .
When taken in connection with the visual observations ( p. 63 ) the interpretation of this appears to be that at those points the ( approximately ) horizontal polarisation of the atmosphere is equal in intensity to the radial polarisation of the corona .
On no other plate of the whole series do there appear any bands due to polarisation , though by inadvertence , due to a change of plan in my procedure in the matter of adjustin both the Nicol prism and the Savart system , I had given Mr. Champion an instruction to set the Savart system to a reading which differed by from that which I had really intended .
By this inadvertence the Savart camera was not used in the way which I consider best : for it was set so as to give the atmospheric bands their maximum intensity instead of uishing them .
Fortunately , inadvertence was a blessing in disguise ; for it has proved to be the of making certain about the plane of polarisation of the sky , and also of finding a sort of quantitative relation between the relative amounts of polarisation in the sky and the corona .
With regard to the photographs actually obtained I would point out that , Mr. H. F. Newall .
of the [ Nov. in spite of the fact that the band system due to the sky must act in a way to diminish the visibility of the band system seen over th , corona , yet all the plates show the bands very ] over the corona , and will consequently form excellent material for a quantitative study of the relation the polarised and unpolarised portions of the of the corona ; and the interest in this study is htened by the fact that observations were secured with the same instruments ab the of 1ninimum in the sun-spot S10-.\mdash ; Th A Nicol prism , with a clear circular apertul of inches , was mounted in front of a raphic tescope of 4 aperture and inches length , the effective aperture clear inehes .
The prism was mted in the usual turning-stand , and a card was fixed so that the Nicol prism might be turned through in three steps of each .
The programme was to find the direction of polarisaLion of the sky , and then to set the Nicol prism in four ) ositions , namely , parallel and perpendicular to the sky polarisation , and in two other positions each inclined at to the sky polarisation ; and in each of the positions an exposure of 30 seconds was to be iven .
For nvenience in description I sball call the four positions of icol p E. , Vertical , W. , and Horizontal , these names indicating the positions of the longer of the section of the Nicol ; the exact positions have been recorded , need ot be here reproduced .
Mr. Cooke made the following exposures:\mdash ; Position of Plate .
Nicol . .
Xl .
X 2 .
Vertical .
X W. X 4 .
Horizontal .
The plates were all of ' make , " " Gilt No. 27 They developed sinlultaneously with mGtol , and in } ) sses of treatment have been that simultaneously . .
X4 tunately , not completely exposed befo1c had ppeared , and , it turns out to be an interesting and fantastic } ) ictule , it is tlbcless for rison w the others .
Nos. X 1 , X 2 , and X 3 are all plates , and very considerable detail the corona , quite apart from the } ) tion } ) exhibited in thenn .
1905 .
] Eclipse , Algeria .
If the pictorial aspect of the plates is rather spoilt by the appearance of certain and some false images , due to internal reflections in the Nicol prism , it is to be hoped that their presence will .
much interfere with measurement .
In one respect the rays may be conveniently utilised , namely , for exact determination of the position of the principal plane of the Nicol with respect to the sun 's axis .
The negatives render obvious to the most casual inspection the radial nature of the polarisation of the corona .
They also give a conclusive piece of evidence as to the plane of polarisation of the sky .
For the shadow cast by a diaphragm in the camera on to the raphic plate leaves the margin of the atives absolutely clear ; whilst the actinic power of the sky has impressed itself faintly in all three plates .
It is evident that the effect of the sky is smaller in X 2 , when the Nicol was approximately vertical , than in X 1 or X3 , when the Nicol was respectively E. and W. This , taken in connection with the visual observations ( p. 63 ) , proves that the sky polarisation was nearly horizontal .
It is , perhaps , rash to speak before having carried out actual quantitative measurenlent .
But a comparison of X 1 and X 3 shows at once a very marked feature .
The streamer which seems to cut across the sun 's limb just to the east of the south pole of the sun is very strong in one and almost obliterated in the other ; whereas two curved arches , not very far away in the middle corona , remain about equally in both pictures .
It is very tempting to think that there may be a selective action of the kind .
For the researches of Christie , Dyson , and others seem to connect some of these curved arches with outbursts prominences , and it is not altogether improbable that a change in inherent luminosity of the tenuous matter in the neighbourhood of a prominence might be propagated through the matter in such a way that , when the surfaces were seen in projection , the envelopes were in a sense marked out as apparent arches round the prominences .
What the cause of polarisation in the straighter streamers may be , and , indeed , whether we are to connect marked polarisation chiefly with streamers , are questions that would be much elucidated , could we get npeachable spectroscopic evidence as to the nature of the light .
An attempt of the sort is referred to in S 16 , but it is incomplete .
If unhofer lines are found in the streamers more than elsewhere , this ht be taken evidence thaC the polarisation is due to reflection from small particles .
Mr. H. F. Newall .
Preliminary Report of the [ Nov. 17 , S16.\mdash ; The The Rowland used in these observations is part of the spectroscopic installation by the late Professor Piazzi .
I am under great tions to the Royal Society for the loan of this outfit , The is a plane grating with a ruled surfacc 5 inches inches on speculum metal , with 14,438lines to the inch , in all ) 72,000 lines .
It fitted on a horizontal axis in front of a telescope of 4 aperture and 72 inches focal length , the lens very fine photovisual triple by Messrs. Cooke and Sons , of York .
programme was to attempt to : ( i ) raphs of the flash spectrum with a high dispersion from the reen end of the spectrum the green coronium line to the ultra-violct near , the photographs to be attempted both at second and conncts ; ( ii ) photographs of coronal in the same region of the specbrtlDl of the corona during totality .
The breaking of a string used in these opelations about 4 minutes before second contact rathel upset the evell tenor of things , but as raphs were successfully obtained , though not exactly in the form I had originally intended , I need not dwell upon this mishap further than to say that under the stress of the mishap I unfortunately gave way to a doubt as to the correctness of the preliminary setting of the , and in resetting it I made the very mistake which I thought at the moment I was ; for I threw into the camera the of the second order\mdash ; is the spectrum got wiuh small incidence and 1 emergence\mdash ; instead of the ighter and less dispersed spectrum of second order , which I had intended to photograph .
Howevel , in spite of this nlistake , and in spite of the fact that the rating was not used to the best advantage even for that spectrum , the spectrum is satisfactol.ily recorded on the photographic plate , linear dispersion of about , over the region of spectrum comprised between the 4610 , which extends over about 21 .
or , inches , probably reaterb dispersion has ever been attempted for the flash } ) Tlnee se'ts of photographs were obtained , on a 10-inch -inch plat which w in such a tnel that ] ) pushed in its plane inch time , thns ectra , each inches , could be set side ) side on ) late .
A shntter in mera } closed ) the ) was Plate has on it six the crescent .
1905 .
] Eclipse Observations mude at Guetma , Al .
relate to the following epochs recorded by Mrs. Newall in terms of the metronome count , whilst I made the exposures:\mdash ; No. of spectrum 1 .
2 .
Count 17\mdash ; 18 20\mdash ; 21 Duration of exposure 1 sec. 1 sec. 3 .
6 .
23\mdash ; 24 27\mdash ; 28 29\mdash ; 2 1 sec. 1 sec. sec. 2 sec. Mr. Wallace the signal " " Go\ldquo ; \mdash ; to announce the of \mdash ; just after Mr. Champion had counted " " 29 Hence the spectrum No. on this plate was exposed for about half a second to some of photospheric light and for second to the flash ; and the record is quite in accordance with the view that the signal was given at exactly the right moment .
Spectra Nos. 1 to 4 show the dark photoS } ) heric lines in crescent shape and also a very broad and bright crescent .
No. 5 is full of and well-defined crescents .
Spectrum No. 6 only the line .
The Plate has on it two spectra of the corona , one with exposure of 6 seconds , from the count 15 to 21 , the other with exposure of l59 seconds from the count 21 to the end of the third minute , both es bein made by Mrs. .
No coronal rings are visible in the ra1lge of spectrum pgl ) .
The Plate was } ) osed by me five times to the crescent , but , unfortunately , I just missed the flash spectrum by , a tliHe too long before beginning the exposures .
S17 .
\mdash ; The Spcctrograpl , .
The spectrograph was a single prism nstrument which transmitted a 2-inch through the prism .
An excellently corrected objective by Cooke , of aperture 2 inches and focal length oout 2 inches , was used to throw an image of tne corona on the slit .
A pristl of square section 2 inches in the side and a separation of , was inserted veen the dispersive prism and the objective of the camera .
the prism been absent two spectra , due to the two ions of the corona .
on the slit , would have appeared on the plate , with a dark { ce between them due to the dark body of the moon .
The action of the doul)-image prism was to give two images of these pairs of ) ectra without , and they were arranged so that one was due to the polarised component and the other to the radial .
of exposures was to two exposures , one of 20 seconds for the inner corona , the other of 120 seconds for the outer corona as well .
Unfortunately the second exposure was spoilt by the adllissio of 76 Report of the Eclipse The short exposure gave a good negative .
It was taken on a Seed orthoomatic plate , and shows the spectrum from the yellow to the thtra-violet just beyond K. The radially polarised are very much stronger than those entially polarised ; and this is true for botl ) sides of corona .
The spectra extend about 5 to 7 minutes of arc from the 's limb , and fade ofldually to the limit , in such a way that Fraunhofer lines been present they could readily have been detected .
No such Fraunhofer lines can be traced in any of the spectra .
In all the four images on the negative , the tnarked feature is the strength of the continuous spectrum .
The lines .
coronium are vely feeble at ) poin ts of the corona that fell upon the slit .
There is no trace of , in either the body of the moon .
S One ative was secured with the sho1t camera of focal length 11 inches , which was provided with a rapid rectilinear lens of aperture .
An exposure of about 170 seconds from the count 40 to count 3 minutes and 30 approximately was given to it , and it } slowly developed until the effect of the sky to appear on the plate .
longer streamers appear well defined , and show extensions not greater than 90 ' , or nearly 3 diameters from the limb .
S of the The development of all the was carried out at Guelma in one of the class rooms of the school on the \mdash ; August 31 , to .
; September 1 , 9 .
to .
; September 2 , 9 .
to A.bf .
; and September 3 , 9 .
to .
The class room was very convenient in both in and airiness for stlch opelations as printing standard squares on the .
As the was seldom below , plenty of ice was needed , and was fortunately procurable from ice factory in the town .
An bath was used for every ) hotograph , ttnd not a single plate was lost .

