]\gt ; 1879 .
Obserrations of the Arctic lition , A value of 30 ' at a sfatior- where the absolutc force is , and the tion 8 , my be considered sufficicnt , when th those adopted by Sir vard Sbine , Point a horizontal force equitl , and dip S6 ' , Port Kennedy , force dip After rejecting days of assumed disturbance the hours of doflcction are : \mdash ; The cffect , therefore , ance is to tl nct at its points of extrcme deflccfion by one hout in ddition to ' in hc Thns , disturbances , the is rejcction it is only Bay .
The el.cction of the ouscs of both on ic lioc ( fell } tidc the of the opcn to sllspicion of disturbnnccs thttn : produced by Chiefiy for soll no analysis been of ) disturbances Bcnch .
In case o.f " " \ldquo ; compnrisolls were on the floe and shore .
times of , { llld ncts m alike , exceptions .
On ebruary 2nd , on was much disturbed , that on ice very ; at of brunry 2 the reverso took placo , the d peculi mallner , hilst the inod nearly of computing mean hourly values of the or " " Tlallb .
' ' V L. I X. Staff-Commander E. W. Creak on the Magnetical [ May 8 , declination , the formula used by Captain ( now Sir J. H. ) Lefroy , in the published volume of his " " Magnetical and Observations at Lake ) * \amp ; c. , was adopted .
This renders the several results directly comparable with other serics obtained at llumerous stations on the North American continent , and Van Rensselaer Harbour , GreeIlland .
The formula for a whole month or longer is , In this ; the hourly scale readings , the monfhly at the same hour , the number of the observations , the suIn of all the squares .
From the values of the mean hourly without regard to sign , it is found that the disturbing force never ceascs , and that in the mean monthly values it defjreases as the winter ] stice is approached , and rapidly towards the equinox .
This points to an accordance with the ions by Mr. Broun , F.R.S. , of disturbances of declination in latitudes , " " that there maxima at the equinoxes and minima at the solsticcs ' In the hourly values nlaximum mean disturbance occurs between hours of 9 M. , and again from 9 .
to 2 .
; the imum from 6 to 9 to 8 .
the results for whole period at Van Rcnsselaer Harbour and overy Bay , marked difference is apparent .
At the first-named place the forcs -as greatest during night and during the day : Eiscovery Bay the disturbing force was considerably greater .
day Anoiher result which also descrves atlention is that of the mean ximum d about preceded ftlld followed by maller values .
This is in accordance with the results obtained at Rensselaer Harbour , , and Sitka .
At there is also a very mal.ked disturbance at Having the meftn disturbance without to sign , it 3 ct to be seen was the of the disturbances during several ours of the tv cnty-four .
computed values that easterly nccs p cr estcrly the about 7 .
to 7 A.tt , hours of the day the tnrb 1 ) king the difference between the and westcrly disturbances , it is found that the is both moderate in and monthly when red with westerly .
the ratio of excess of westerly disturbance in December \amp ; c. , of See .
Roy .
Soc. vol. xxvii , Part 1879 .
] Observations of th retic to in is , but the ratio of the easterly excess in the same months is mcan actual values and ; and .
the peculiarities of the disturbances at Discovery , are hich e hibit their , semi-Asiatic character .
At Pekill , Nertschinsk , and Discovery Bay the aggregate ] of the westcrly deflections , the contrnr obtains in America .
In North America " " { he collical ( of the curves ) characterizcs the ) stcrly deflections * at Discovcry Bay , but the double is observed in the casterJy deflections at Pekin and Nertschinsk , and westcrly America\mdash ; is common to both easterly and westerly deflections .
Objections possibly be ised to made between the ations of a few months with those of as ears .
The period of observation , -ever , includcs one tice and the subsequent equinox ; it is , erefore , to .
Broun 's tions in high latitndes , the broad of the disturbances ve been ) romjnent .
Before this how far the observed and ssumed of at with thosc at scelns .
of tion .
The period by tl es ) ervn tions ono disvnrds t end of nlld t of MR. declinomctels ) stations ) ' for the most pnrt .
same of The reatcst d or " " , ' on the Fcbru ) tho } starions " " { ) \ldquo ; thus : incipal disturbances\mdash ; of bout t billl0 the stllu 2isco hc kept to of { ; , it dc viated from { hc ) Ohition , olte1l to the as ' " " .
Or mean at Staff-Commander .
Creak on the Magnetical test decrease in the declination ; and } .
it was 12 ' to the vard of norma ] .
Finally , it my be stated that comparison of the disturbances Kew and } winter quarters tories of the Arctic ] ] dition , ) , tppear confirm Ganss 's conclusion , that " " the nchronotlS dnccs of the same element not only differ widely in amount , but occasionally appear to bc even liersed in direction AuroriLS .
The appcilrnnccs of auroras and the sytlchronous movements of the declinometer ma , nct , were subjects of observation during the stay of the Alert\ldquo ; and " " Discovcry " " at inter quarters .
On all occasions were to be .
fnint , with none of hose brilliant llifestations which are described by our own .
officers as seen at Point ]3arrow , by the Hixpedition in Franz Josef iTtd , where the gnetical i were so sensibly disurbed .
These were not in " " Alert\ldquo ; or ' ' Discovery ecially no conncxion betwccn disturbances and the nccs of auroras be This is quite in with the of previous ) within the comprehended { he mcridiallS of and W. , of the parnllel of N. For ttmples , see the remarks of Colptain Parry and oster in the discussion of heir m at Port Bowen , in the " " Phil. Trans 1826 , rt .
Also Mr. } discussion of Dr. Kane 's Rcnsselaer bour , " " Con trlbutions , \ldquo ; vol. S. The tion of allrora observed on 21 st November , is nder Markham Lieutcnant Giffard in their ) strnct otions at Floeber , " " broad } of the aurora ppeared 1 or above the the , nud in nn nbout ) south horizon , S. S.W. the test brilliancy the lring ve nlinucs to be \ldquo ; The aurorn visible on 49 days betweell ) ) Octobcr , and the th ]bruary , which the resnlts hnve been were Commander now A. H. and G. A. , of the " " Alert Lieutellallts R. H. Arcller { .
B. Fulfor of the " " Discovcry The results in grcate detail will be found in a ) paper * Scc .
Trans. Roy .
Soc Scc " " Anstrian , " " , pagcs of Magnetical Observations , .
[ May 8 , Assnming the mean inclination N. the period when the horizontal force was observed as above at Winter Quarters Observatory , the total forco At Winter Quarters Observatory the mean values of or coefficient of netic distribution for the unifilar magnetometer were at distances to feet from the observations in October , November , December , and the last three months .
With a mean temperature of

