]\gt ; The of the Earth 's Free Nutation to its Resistance Tidal By Prof. J. LARLfoIt , Sec. R.S. ( Received December 18 , 1908 , \mdash ; Read January 14 , 1909 .
) The modern investigation of the of the Earth 's axis of rotation : considered as a physical problem relating to the actual non-rigid Earth , be said to have been initiated in Lord Kelvin 's address to the Physical Section of the British Association in 1876 .
After referring*to the scrutin of the recorded observations of of latitudes , conducted by Peters and independently by Maxwell in , in search of the ular Eulerian free period of 306 days which would belong to a Earth , negative results , he insisted that the irregular motions brought out in analyses are not merely due to imperfections , but represent true motions of the Pole , due to displacement of terrestrial material .
For example , he estimates that shifts of material , of type , are competent to produce displacements of the axis of rotation from 1/ 2 to 1/ 20 of a second of arc .
A sudden shift of material on the Earth will not at once affect the axis of rotation , but will start it into motion round the altered axis of inertia , with a period of 306 days if the Earth were which will go on displacing the Pole until it is damped out by the frictional effects of the tidal motions thus inated .
A radius of rotation of 1 second of would raise an ocean tide of the same period as the rotation , ) as ntuch as 11 cm .
of maximum rise and fall .
Thus the motion of the Pole is to be considered as continually renewed by meteorological and other displacements , as it is damped off by tidal and elastic friction ; it therefore , perhaps , not to be expected that it would show much periodicity , though the movements were eminently worthy of close investigation .
Their nature was examined more closely by Newcomb at Kelvin 's request ; but not much more had been done arding their cause when Chandler announced that the records of changes of latitude did actually indicate a period of precession\mdash ; of 427 days , however , instead of the Eulerian period of 306 days , which , if any , had previously been taken for ranted .
Soon after , in 1890 , observations were organised systematically by the International Geodetic Union on the motion of Prof. Foerster , of Berlin ; already , in 1891 , he was able to inform Lord Kelvin that a comparison Reprint in ' Popular Lectures and Addresses , ' vol. 2 , see pp. Prof. J. Larmor .
Earth 's Free Preces.vional [ Dec. 18 , of 'European observations with synchronous ones made at Honolulu gave direct proof of his conclusion of lS76 ( supra ) , " " that irregular movements of the Earth 's axis to the extent of half a second may be produced by the temporary changes of sea level due to meteorological causes.\ldquo ; * In the following year the synchronous observations had already indicated periodicity , apparently in about days , considerably less than Chandler 's estimate , which , however , longer observation has since confirmed substantially .
Lord Kelvin remarks in his next annual address as Newcomb , in a letter which I received from him last December , gave what seems to me undoubtedly the true explanation of this apparent discrepance from dynanlical theory , attributing it to elastic yielding of the Earth as a whole .
He added a suggestion , especially to myself , that investigation of the periodic variations of latitude may prove to be the best means of determining approximately the of the Earth .
As it is , we have now for the first lime what seems to be a quite decisive demonstration of elastic yielding of the Earth as a whole , under the influence of a force , whether of centrifugal force round a axis , as in the present case , or of tide-generating influences of the Sun and lIoon , with reference to which I first raised the question of elastic yielding of the Earth 's material many years ago But " " when we con sider how much water falls on Europe and Asia during a month or two of rainy season , and how many weeks or months must pass before it gets to the sea , and where it has been in the interval and what has become of the air from which it fell , we need not wonder\ldquo ; that the amplitudes of the polar wanderings " " shoul often vary by 5 or 10 metres in the course of a few weeks or months It will be recalled that the main object of the calculations of Lord Kelvin , which assigns to the Earth as a whole an effective rigidity of the same order as that of steel , to combat the view then prevalent which assumed for the Earth a fluid interior .
Even a solid shell of very considerable thickness , enclosing a fluid core , was thus ruled out , unless its were preternaturally rigid ; and it is clear that placing a solid core in the middle of the iluid interior cannot affect this conclusion so as an equilibrium theory is applicable , i.e. , so long as the layer of fluid material is not so thin or viscous as to prevent its adjusting itself immediate]y by flow to the alternating tidal stresses impressed from its solid walls .
By passing to the other limit , and thus taking it so thin that the outer shell 'Presidential Address R.S. , ' Nov. 30 , 1891 ; 'Popular Lectures vol. 2 , p. 504 .
Lord Kelvin 's investigations up to are collected in ' Math. and Phys. Papers vol. 3 , especially pp. ) 'Presidential Address R.S. , ' Nov. 30 , 1892 ; .
cit. , p. 525 .
1908 .
] Nutation against practically rides on the solid nucleus , but without effective tangential stressconnection , we obtain a hypothesis to which this objection does not apply .
In a brief note in 'Monthly Notices B.A.S. ' this year ( 1892 ) , Newcomb showed , by a general estimate , that the effect of elastic is competent to prolong the free period to about the amount required by observation .
A formal mathematical discussion on the bases of calculation of the elastic deformation of a homogeneous sphere was first given by .
S. S. , now H.M. Astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope , in a memoir on " " The Potation of an Elastic Spheroid in ' Phil. Trans 1896 .
He concluded that the Chandler free period required an effective idity of the whole Earth of the order of that of steel , reeing with Lord Kelvin 's previous estimates from tidal phenomena ; and his result seems to have been substantially confirmed by more recent calculations , iving for the average effective idity estimates derived from various possible hypotheses and simplifying assumptions between extreme values and , while Hough 's estimate was put at .
This shows an even striking degree of agreement in calculations necessarily vague on account of the unknown constitution of the Earth 's interior , especially in so far as observations of the equilibrium tides of long periods , and of the deviation of sea level due to tidal attraction which is essentially the same thing , lead to results of the same order as those of free precessional rotation .
* It , indeed , suggests , as we shall actually recognise , that this internal terrestrial constitution really is not involved in these various phenomena , except in the common feature of determining the surface effects arising from a given tidal or rotational stress .
The key to the matter , from the general point of view , is contained in the remark of that the free precession of the yielding Earth is the same as that of a rigid one of the shape that would result when the bulging arising from the centrifugal force of diurnal rotation is removed .
It is not difficult to show , from geometrical considerations regarding momentum , that this result is general , and extends to an Earth of any degree of heterogeneity or plasticity .
The argument may be reproduced in analytical form and rather wider scope , from another placeS ( with definition of I rewritten ) , as follows:\mdash ; Let be the ular velocity of the Earth about the instantaneous axis , *Cf .
Prof. A. E. H. Love , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc supra , p. 73 .
To this paper I am indebtecf for information as to results of recent calculations .
The identity of these two types runs through the discussions in Thomson and Tait 's ' Natural Philosophy .
' Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc May , 1896 , S E. H. Hills and J. Larmor , " " The Irregular Movement of the Earth 's Axis of Rotation ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' Nov. , 1906 , p. 24 .
Prof J. Larmor .
Earth 's Free Precessional [ Dec. 18 , its components referred to the principal axes in the configuration that the Earth would have if the motion were steady .
The Earth is deformed from this configuration by the inequality of centl.ifugal force due to the deviation the instantaneous axis from the axis , with which it would coincide if the motion were steady .
This defrming force is the resultant of the centrifugal force , directed outwards from the instantaneous axis , and the reversed centrifugal force , directed inwards towards the principal axis in question .
A linear law of elasticity applies to the small resultant of these two forces .
If the same law applied to the two forces separately , the reversed force would the moments of inertia to certain values , which might , under hypotheses , be calculated from the theory of the deformation of an elastic sphere ; and the centrifugal force directed outwards from the instantaneous axis would produce a certain change of density at each internal point , and would raise a certain protuberance on the surface , which might be calculated by the same theory .
Let I denote the moment of inertia ( about the instantaneous axis ) of a mass arranged as specified by this change of density and this protuberance .
The instantaneous axis is a principal axis of this mass , and therefore the contributions of this mass to the components of moment of momentum are .
The complete expressions for the components of moment of momentum are therefore The equations of motion referred to the axes are of the well-known vector type , When A and are equal , the third of them is where is the effective moment of inertia : when is null is thus constant , say , up to the first order .
other two equations are which in the case of approximate symmetry involve a free period , and similarly in the general case , thus depending only on when I is small .
The esult is that the period of the free precession is not days , as it would be for a rigid Earth , but approximately , where the 1908 .
] Nutation and Resistance against Tidal Deformation .
93 denominator is that difference of principal moments of inertia which would remain after the imposition of a bodily forcive potential , namely , that of the centrifugal force reversed , representing the zonal harmonic cos2 .
The first part of , the term , corresponds to slight contraction of volume , which is immaterial as regards the desired quantity .
The other part , , will produce an extension , of the same harmonic type as itself , the polar axis , which will in turn alter the potential of the Earth 's attraction at its own surface by , where the value of depends on its effective resistance to deformation .
Moreover the Earth 's potential is at distant points , by Laplace 's formula , , which ives in the present special case ; and if , as in the actual circumstances , further harmonics do not occur to sensible amount , this expression holds right up to the Earth 's surface .
The free surface , of ellipticity , is , where .
The value of is determined by the constancy over the ocean surface of the total potential , as is the potential of the centrifugal force , viz. , of ; whence , equating to zero the coefficient of ( C\mdash ; A ) thus from data of the distribution of gravity , or of the form of the Earth 's surface , the value of , which determines the astronomical precession .
Again , if taking off the centrifugal force would change C\mdash ; A to , it would alter by , which must , ing to the above specification of , be equal to .
Thus Prof J. Larmor .
's Free Precessional [ Dec. 18 , Hence , if is the periodic time of actual free precession and is what it would be if the Earth were rigid , .
This is the formula ( 15 ) in Prof. Love 's paper before referred to ; it is there deduced from a hypothesis of concentric spheroidal stratification of the Earth 's interior , after the manner of Laplace .
We have found that , like Clairaut 's formula for gravity , this relation is independent of any hypothesis as to the Earth 's internal structure , except such as is involved in the definition and value of As is 1/ 289 and is found to be 428 days , and is 306 days , this relation makes equal to 4/ 15 .
The values of corresponding to various moduli of rigidity and comsibility of the Earth considered as a eneous globe might perhaps be deduced and tabulated for comparison , from Lord Kelvin 's and similar elastic analysis .
The height of the long-period equilibrium tides proyides different data ; corresponding to an extraneous tide-producing potential of this type , the absolute rise of the water is , from which has to be subtracted for the rise of the solid Earth due to this tide-producing potential , thus leaving a factor for the relative tide which alone can be the subject of observations .
The reductions of tidal data for the Indian Ocean gave Kelvin and G. H. Darwin the for this factor , which is confirmed by more recent discussions : the observations of Hecker with a horizontal pendulum at the bottom of a well , which ] obviously determine the same thing , viz. , the change of level due to tide-producing potential , concur in a remarkable manner .
Thus These values of and , as defined in the last paragraph , would not be independent for a homogeneous incompressible globe : they would , in eneral , require for their consistency both elasticity of volume and of form .
The phenomena of free precession give the value of , but with reference to compression the polar axis ; those of tidal change of ] evel give the value of , or rather its mean value , with reference to compl.ession along axes in the neighbourhood of the equator .
* This statement is the purest and simplest expression of the information to the solid Earth 's resistance to deforming forces that the data of periodic change of latitude Cf .
Prof. Love , supra , p. 81 , to whom this proposition is substantially due , having been reached by him through analysis appropriate to a centrically stratified body .
The quantities and , in other notation , enter essentially into the tidal discussions by Kelvin and Darwin in Thomson and Tait 's ' Not .
Phil. ' 1908 .
] Nutation Deformation .
95 and of equilibrium ( i.e. , long-period ) tides can supply , prior to any hypothesis regarding the internal distribution and the effective elasticity or plasticity of its materials .
[ Added February 2.\mdash ; It has been remarked above , after Lord ICelvin , that a sudden shift of material from one part of the Earth 's surface to another would alter the position of the principal axis of inertia round which the free precession of the Earth 's axis of rotation takes place , and thus cause a sharp bend in the path of the Pole .
If the shift were merely local , such as an earthquake may be expected to produce , the effect would be inappreciable .
The connection of sharp curvature in the path of the Pole with seismic disturbance , if it really exists , would thus be indirect , the earthquake being itself started possibly by the slight or other , of distribution of surface load , wluch are indicated by the disturbance of the free precession .
But it is to be noticed that a seismic subsidence , if uncompensated by adjacent elevation , or vice versd , would be competent to produce sensible direct disturbance of the path of the Pole ; for water would have to flow , in part from distant regions , to fill up the defect of level thus produced .
The same would be true for earthquake subsidence near coast lines , if it is compensated by rise of the land .
In reply to an inquiry on this subject , Prof. Milne writes as follows:\mdash ; " " When a very large earthquake occurs on land , we find vertical and lateral cements of , let us say , 20 feet , along lines which may be one or two hundred miles in length .
The majority of big quakes , however , are sub-oceanic in their origin , along lines parallel to mountain ridges , as , for example , at the bottom of the trough which runs parallel to the Andes .
The mass movement appears to result in the deepening of the and the rise of coast line .
We have measurements where has increased as much as 200 fathoms : see 'Brit .
Assoc. Seismic Report , ' 1897 , for a number of these measurements An estimate of the effect of such displacements is easily made .
Thus , an uncompensated subsidence of the ocean floor , of volume corresponding to a fall of one foot over a thousand miles square , in middle latitudes , would produce*a direct shift in the Pole of rotation amounting to about one-eighth of a second of arc ; and at the same time the Pole of the principal axis of inertia , round which the 428-day precession of the axis of rotation takes place , would be displaced in the opposite direction through an angle of the same order of magnitude .
In connection with the possibility of irregularity in the Earth 's diurnal .
cit. , ' Monthly Notices E.A.S. , ' Nov. , 1906 , p. 26 .
VOL. LXXXII .
Sir N. Lockyer .
On Observations of Sun and [ Dec. 8 , rotation due to causes of this kind , similar considerations arise .
* A slight subsidence , due to shrinkage around the equator , unless it extended downward a long way toward the Earth 's centre , would have negligible direct effect on the moment of inertia and , therefore , on the length of the day ; but if it were under sea it would involve transference of water from regions nearer the Earth 's axis , in order to make up the deficiency , and if the equatorial regions were all under water , a contraction of cm .
in equatorial radius would in this way alter the length of the year by an amount of the order of half a second of time , which would be astronomically of high importance .
] on Observations of Sun and Stars in some British Stone Circles .
Fourth Note.\mdash ; The Circles , St. Just , Cornwall .
By Sir NORMAN LOCKYER , Sc. D. , IC. C.B. , , Director Solar Physics Observatory .
December Read January Borlase , in his " " Antiquities of \ldquo ; ( p. 199 ) , published in 1769 , refers to what he terms " " the curious cluster\ldquo ; of circles at Botallek , the seeming confusion of which led him to write " " I cannot but think that there was some mystical meaning , or , at least , distinct allotments to particular uses Fortunately for science , he accompanies his account with a plan evidently carefully prepared ( fig. 1 ) , which is now the only thing that remains ; every stone has been utilised in building an engine house , or in other ways .
Only the site is shown on the ordnance map .
As the " " cluster\ldquo ; of circles exceeds in elaboration anything of the kind with which I am acquainted , it was of great interest to see if could be made of it in the light of other researches in Cornwall already refe , rred to in previous communications to the Royal Society .
The first point of *Lord Kelvin , .
cit. , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 76 , 1905 , p. 177 ; , vol. 77 , 1906 , p. 465 ; , vol. 80 , 1908 , p. 285 .

