525 The Development of a Parasite of Earth-worms .
By John Westray Cropper , M.B. , M.Sc .
, Liverpool .
( Communicated by Sir B. Boss , K.C.B. , F.B.S. Beceived June 20 , 1912 .
) ( From the Laboratories of the John Howard McFadden Kesearch Fund , Lister Institute .
) [ Plate 14 .
] While carrying out experiments on the artificial induction of cell-division , I had occasion to examine the seminal vesicles of the common earth-worm , when I noticed that certain epithelial cells contained within their cytoplasm structures similar to those known as " Kurloff s bodies " found in the blood-cells of guinea-pigs .
These Kurloffs bodies have recently been shown to be parasites , to which the name of Lyrryphocytozoon cobaycehas been given .
In their early stages , they are parasites of the mononuclear cells ( lymphocytes ) of the blood of the guinea-pig .
As described in the paper on the subject ( E. H. Boss , 1912 ) , they undergo development in definite stages in the lymphocyte , and ultimately become free-swimming spirochsete-like bodies in the blood-plasma .
Having assisted in the investigation of the development of these so-called Kurloff s bodies , I was struck with the similarity between them and the new structures seen in the epithelial cells of the seminal vesicles of the earthworm , and the matter was further investigated .
I am now convinced that these structures in the earth-worm also represent phases in the life-cycle of a new parasite which is very similar in its developmental figures to I/ ymphocytozoon cobayce .
The cells in the worm which contain these peculiar structures are the large ccelomic epithelial cells which form the walls of the vesiculae seminales of Lumbricus terrestris .
The body first observed was a large spherical sac containing a closely woven skein , staining deep blue with azure stain , lying embedded within the cytoplasm of the epithelial cell .
The method of examination employed was that devised by H. C. Boss ( 1910 ) for the examination of blood-cells in vitro , and it is known as the " jelly method .
" A 2-per-cent , solution of agar in distilled water is boiled , sterilised , and filtered .
To 5 c.c. of the filtrate is added 1 c.c. of a 1-per-cent , solution of azure II , and the total bulk of the mixture is made up with water to 10 c.c in a test-tube .
When molten , a small quantity of the jelly is allowed to spread itself in a thin film on a microscope slide , where it will set when it c ools .
A drop of a suspension of the cells of the seminal ' vesicles in citrated 526 The Development of a Parasite of Earth-worms .
normal saline solution is placed on a cover-glass , which is then inverted and allowed to fall flat on to the set jelly film .
The spermatozoa , the nuclei of the epithelial oells and of the seminal cells all stain deeply .
Within the epithelial cells the parasites also stain in sharp contrast with the surrounding cytoplasm , so that their morphology can be readily determined .
The first stage of the parasite within the cell consists of a blue dot or granule situated in what looks like a vacuole which colours only faintly ( Plate 14 , fig. 1 ) .
In the next stage observed , the dot has apparently divided , for the [ vacuole or sac now contains several blue granules ( fig. 2 ) .
The dots then elongate into rods ( fig. 3 ) , and each rod becomes lengthened and splits longitudinally ( fig. 4 ) , until the parasite appears like a bunch of painted sticks\#151 ; a sheaf embedded within the cytoplasm of the epithelial cell , its host .
This process of splitting continues and at length there is a series of spiral coils wound up within the sac , which is still enveloped by the protoplasm of the epithelial cell ( figs. 6 and 7 ) .
I-n some specimens observed by the jelly method , the parasite is separated from its host-cell , and is found stained and lying free as in fig. 5 .
The final stage is that of a free spirochsete ( fig. 8 ) .
This is the fully developed parasite , having a long slender body , pointed at one end and blunt at the other .
It is nearly always found coiled up , but occasionally it is almost straight .
Its protoplasm is homogeneous , and contains at irregular intervals in its length small chromatin masses , varying in number from five to twelve , which are characteristic of spirochsetes .
These spirochsetes have not only been seen free , but also swimming actively in the seminal fluid when the latter has been examined by dark ground illumination .
They are readily differentiated from spermatozoa by their length , granulation , and peculiar movements , nor can there be any confusion between this parasite and the well-known Monocystis lumbrid or the spermatophores .
So far as I can ascertain , its existence has not been recorded before .
It is interesting to note , however , that intracellular phases of spirochsetes have been described in other animals by A. Balfour , H. B. Fantham , E. Hindle , Sir William Leishman , and others .
Its resemblance to the parasite of the guinea-pig is very remarkable ; the earth-worm parasite is larger however , develops in the fixed epithelial cells of the vesiculse seminales , and has not been seen in the blood of its host nor in the ccelomic fluid , but it passes through corresponding phases .
The parasite is present in about one earth-worm out of five .
Summary .
A description of " bodies " found within some of the epithelial cells of the vesicuke seminales of the earth-worm .
They closely resemble " Kurloff s bodies 1$Jfopp\#163 ; n Poy .
Soc. Ppob\ o ' .
Vot .
So .
Ptcit\amp ; # .
V. ' \amp ; 1 ^ 2 3 Miss E.Barry del.adLuab .
THE DEVELOPMENT \ rw ) yfv*v \j/ i 0 |p , : A \#174 ; S1\#187 ; 5 K I Qs f-)\ \y I 'West , Newman clip , OP A PARASITE OF EARTHWORMS .
Notes on the Polymorphism of T. gambiense , etc. found within the lymphocytes of guinea-pigs , and by means of the jelly method of examination , the development of these bodies into free spirochsetes is demonstrated in the same way that it has recently been shown that " KurlofFs bodies " also become spirochsetes .
I would suggest that these new parasites be called Spirochceta lumbrici .
REFERENCES .
1910 .
H. C. Ross and J. W. Cropper , 'Induced Cell-reproduction and Cancer , ' London , John Murray .
1912 .
E. H. Ross , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 85 , p. 67 .
Notes on the Polymorphism of Trypanosoma gambiense in the Blood and its Relation to the Exogenous Cycle in Glossina palpalis .
By Miss Muriel Robertson .
( Communicated by the Tropical Diseases Committee of the Royal Society .
Received July 5 , 1912 .
) I. Introduction .
The following paper deals with the well-known phenomena of the fluctuation in the numbers of trypanosomes present in the blood of an animal infected with T. gambiense , and with the equally familiar question of the polymorphism of the parasites .
The relation of these factors to the production of infected G. palpalis is also discussed , and evidence is brought forward to show that a certain type of trypanosome is responsible for the carrying on of the cycle in the transmitting host .
The actual details of the structure of the trypanosomes and the sequence of developmental stages in the fly are not touched upon in this account .
They will , I hope , form the subject of a subsequent paper .
II .
General Condition of a T. gambiense Infection .
It is advisable to consider first the fluctuation in the numbers of the parasites .
It is important to note here that a close study of any given infection brings out very clearly that the multiplication of the trypanosomes occurs in the circulating blood-stream .
Search has also been made for any type of multiplication in the cells of the lung , liver , and spleen , so far entirely without success .
Moreover , the invariable correlation between a rise in the

