1888.7 Development of the Skeleton of the , 391 II , ** Preliminary Note on the Development of the Skeleton of the Apteryx .
" By T. J , Parker , B.Sc. , Professor of Biology in the University of Otago.* Communicated by W. K. Parker , F.R.S , Received February 9 , 1888 , [ Note by W. K. P.\#151 ; This is not the first , but it is the most important , of the " Notes " sent to me by my son , on the development of this , the lowest and most Reptilian of all birds known .
Seven stages before hatching have been obtained , ap.d will yield , I am satisfied , most instructive results and , added to what has already been done in the other forms of the Ratitae , will give something like completeness to our knowledge of the morphology of these archaic types .
It is not merely as low kinds of birds that the Struthious types are so important to the biologist ; they are so intimately related to the more primitive forms , both of Reptiles and Mammals , that any new fact as to their structure is of great value .
This short paper is accompanied by one of my own , purposely to throw light upon its meaning and bearing .
] Extracts from a Description of the Skull of Apteryx at about Period of Hatching , Bach alisphenoid is connected by a rod of cartilage ( A ) with the postero-dorsal angle of the mesethmoid ; a transverse cartilaginous bar is thus produced , which forms the anterior boundary of the pituitary fossa and the dorsal boundary of the optic foramen , Fio .
1 , * The Note here given is on the skull only , but I have already received notices of things found in the rest of the skeleton of the .
apteryx , that are only second in importance to those upon the skull.\#151 ; W. K. Pakkeb .
Prof. T. J. Parker .
On the Development of [ Feb. 23 , Fig. 2 .
al.net \#166 ; B.S Ventral View .
i ; \lt ; * '\#166 ; '\lt ; otifv .
\gt ; j Jx* : ?
'k The 1111166(1 olfactory capsules consist of ( a ) the mesethmoid , passing in front into the pre-nasal cartilage ; ( \amp ; ) the lateral ethmoidal plates ; and ( c ) the turbinals .
The mesethmoid forms in its posterior half a vertical plate , with a thickened lower rim ; its posterior border is vertical , and forms the front boundary of the pituitary fossa ; the posterior portion of its dorsal border ( cr .
gall .
) is concave , from before backwards , and has exactly the relations of the crista galli of a Mammal .
Passing forwards from the crista galli , the mesethmoid reaches the surface of the skull , where , with the adjacent portions of^ the lateral ethmoids , it forms a lozenge-shaped area between the posterior ends of the nasals .
Cephalad of this it gradually narrows in the vertical direction , finally becoming in the anterior portion of the beak a mere rod , the pre-nasal cartilage or basi-trabecular .
There is now no trace of the parietal fenestra mentioned by W. K. Parker on the aMthorizy of Blanchard ( " Ostrich Skull , " p. 173 ) .
In the lateral ethmoidal plates of this bird no clear distinction 1883.1 the Skeleton of Aptery$ , # 893 , cSiix be drawn between , ali-ethmoidal , ali-septal , and ali-nasal , any more than between mesethmoid , septum nasi , and pre-nasal .
The dorsal border of the mesethmoid , from anterior end of crista galli to within r.bout 2 cm .
of end of beak , sends off horizontal plates on each side , uich pass at first outwards , then downwards , and finally , in part of heir extent , inwards , thus forming roof , outer wall , and in part floor of the nasal chambers .
The precise relation of these lateral ethmoidal plates varies in different regions , and it is convenient to consider them as consisting of five portions .
In the first or posterior portion , besides passing outwards and downwards , they take a sweep backwards , and then inwards , thus forming an almost complete somewhat shell-like covering for the principal or inter-orbital portion of the olfactory capsules .
To this portion the name ali-ethmoid may be applied .
Each ali-ethmoid is a thin plate of cartilage , convex externally , forming the outer border of the cribriform space ( olfactory foramen ) by its dorsal free edge , and closely applied below by its ventral edge to the mesethmoid , immediately dorsad of the rostrum ; in front it is continuous laterally and dorsally with the second portion , and ventrally ends irregularly , presenting a deep anterior emargination , which separates a slender , forwardly directed process ( c ) from the main ali-ethmoidal cartilage .
In its second portion the lateral ethmoidal cartilage furnishes only roof and sides to the nasal chamber , the floor being absent , and thus the turbinals are visible from below .
In its third portion it again turns inwards so as to furnish a floor to the nasal cavity , in the form of a plate with a straight lower border abutting against the mesethmoid , and with oblique anterior and posterior edges .
In their fourth portion the lateral ethmoids again furnish only roof and outer walls to the off-chamber , and in their fifth or anterior portion , they are entirely unconnected with the mesethmoid ( prenasal ) , and form two slightly divergent obliquely placed plates of cartilage which are continued to the end of the beak , passing dorsad of the nostrils .
To these the name ali-nasals might be applied , but owing to the unique position of the anterior nares , the relations of these and other parts of the ethmoidal region is strikingly different from what we are familiar with in other birds .
There is a single ethmoidal ossification , mesethmoid , in the form of a bone composed of horizontal and vertical portions and T-shaped in transverse section .
The horizontal portion is shield-shaped , and appears on the surface of the skull between the posterior ends of the nasals : the vertical portion ossifies the whole postero-dorsal region of the mesethmoid : the bone in question is therefore partly mes- and partly ecto-ethmoidal .
Prof. T. J. Parker .
On the Development of [ Feb. Fig. 3 .
1888 .
] the Skeleton of the Apteryx .
Fra .
4 .
prolongation , rfmfV turbinal .
Mesial surface of turbinals .
Fig. 5 .
Horizontal section along a , b. The turbinals consist of in-growths of the ali-ethmoid into the nasal cavity , and are altogether three in number .
They may be called respectively anterior , middle , and posterior turbinals .
The posterior turbinal has the form of a vertical scroll of very thin cartilage , attached by the upper and lower ends of one edge to the ali-ethmoid , but free in the middle ; it is rolled upon itself caudad , forming about one turn and a half .
The middle turbinal is attached along the whole length of one vertical edge : from its attachment it passes mesiad , then turns sharply^ laterad , then curves mesiad again , and passes forwards ( upheld ) as a broad plate somewhat indented in the middle by a vertical furrow , which gives it , when viewed from the inner face , the appearance of a double fold : this broad plate is attached to the ali-ethmoid all along its vertical edge , and in front is rolled upon itself caudad , forming a scroll of one turn which is attached above and below but free in the middle .
2 p 3 Development of the Skeleton of the Apteryx .
[ Feb. 23 , Fig. 6 .
The anterior turbinal arises as a single somewhat oblique plate , attached to the ali-ethmoid along its whole length : it soon divides into two plates , each of which becomes rolled upon itself forwards , forming two oblique scrolls .
Finally , the anterior turbinal is continued forwards into the narrow portion of the olfactory chamber ( 2nd and 3rd portions of lateral ethmoid , see sections ) , as a horizontal plate , which , like the main portion of the turbinal , divides into two : these are rolled upon them- 1888 .
] On Structures found in Hie Skull of Birds .
397 selves respectively dorsad and ventrad , forming two horizontal scrolls , which become simpler and simpler , finally being reduced to a single narrow horizontal plate , which is continued as far forwards as a small arterial foramen in the lateral ethmoidal cartilage at the junction of its 3rd and 4th portions .
In addition to these , which may be called the turbinals proper , the 5th anterior ( free ) portion of the lateral ethmoidal cartilage sends inwards for a short distance a narrow horizontal shelf-like process ( fig. 3 , sect. 5 ) , beginning immediately caudad of the nostril , and nearly as far back as the junction of the lateral ethmoids with the mesethmoid .
On each side of the ventral edge of the mesethmoid , in the vomerine region is a slender , free rod of cartilage , shaded dark in fig. 2 , imbedded in connective tissue , and lying parallel with , and either immediately above or slightly laterad of , the dorsal edge of the vomer .
It is about 10 mm. long , and about 014 mm. in diameter .
This is obviously the vestigial cartilage of Jacobson 's organ , figured but not described in " Ostrich Skull " ( Plate 10 , fig. 14 ) , described in " Skull of Bird , " Plate 2 ( p. 109 , Note ) : called upper labial in Snake ( Plate 30 , fig. 2 ) , and nasal floor in Lizard ( Plate 44 , figs. 3 and 4 ) .
III .
" On Remnants or Vestiges of Amphibian and Reptilian Structures found in the Skull of Birds , both Carinatae and Ratitae .
" By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received February 9 , 1888 .
One of the most remarkable structures found in the skull of certain Amniota or higher Vertebrata\#151 ; Reptiles and Mammals , is the so-called " Jacobson 's organ .
" A pair of these curious gland-like bodies , each carefully placed in its own special capsule , may be seen in Serpents , Lizards , and Mammals ; but they are not present in Tortoises , Crocodiles or Birds , as far as our present knowledge goes .
Rathke , in his work on the Snake 's Skull , spoke of the " nasal glands and their capsules , " and for a long while this term made them to be confused with the nasal glands of birds , which have nothing whatever to do with " Jacobson 's organs .
" These structures are largest in Serpents , Lizards , and Monotremes , next in order come the Marsupials , Edentates , and Insectivores , then the Mammalia generally , including Man himself , in whom they appear for a time , and then vanish away.* These structures lie just above the anterior incisive foramina .
I * See Kolliker , 'XJeber die Jacobson'schen Organ des Menscben , ' Leipzig , 1877 .
.-5 ; a

