1884 .
] Mr. P. Jabloclikoff .
On a New Voltaic Battery .
Ill singly infinite number : consequently the locus of the vertex contracts in this case into a surface , the orthoptic sphere .
The locus , of the vertex of a trihedral angle which envelopes a quadric is in general the space bounded by two surfaces .
Next consider a complex of lines of the with order ; those of its lines which pass through a specified point form a cone of the order ; this cone can be circumscribed by a cube-angle provided the point lies within a certain solid space .
When the complex is of the second order the solid locus degenerates into a surface , which is a quartic passing through the imaginary circle at infinity ; and when the complex is composed of the tangent lines of a surface of the second order the locus is made up of the surface and its orthoptic sphere .
Similar considerations hold for the locus of the point of concourse of a triad of tangent lines at right angles .
When the complex is of the second order the locus degenerates into a quadric .
Mr. Larmor has briefly considered the problem of a surface constrained to touch three surfaces , deducing as a special case that the locus of the vertex of a cube-angle whose faces touch a quadric or three confocal quadrics is a sphere .
IX .
" On a New Form of Voltaic Battery .
" By Paul Jabloch-koff .
Communicated by Warren De La Rue , M.A. , D.C.L. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received May 12 , 1884 .
The battery which I have the honour to bring under the notice of the Royal Society is one of high electromotive force , namely , about two and three quarter volts , and a single cell consequently decomposes water ; it is very light and portable , and convenient for many purposes .
The electro-positive element is sodium , the electro-negative element is either carbon , spongy platinum , copper , or other metallic gauze ; no fluid is used in which to immerse the plates , but the atmospheric air which is always impregnated with more or less hygrometric moisture serves to set up the action of the battery by giving up sufficient moisture to wet the surface of the sodium , so that a very thin film of fluid ( a solution of soda ) , is thus interposed between the sodium and electro-negative element , and the internal resistance is very small in consequence of the thinness of the film of fluid .
The sodium is used in the form of plates , conveniently about a quarter of an inch thick , and the plates of carbon , of which one is placed on each side of the sodium , a little longer and about the same thickness as the sodium ; these plates , carbon , sodium , carbon , are kept together by means of vulcanised rubber bands , and suspended vertically , a vessel being placed underneath to receive the soda solution as it forms .
142 Lord Rayleigh and Mrs. Sidgwick .
[ June 19 , A battery composed of plates 10 inches long and ^ an inch wide gives a current of 0-122 ampere at first starting , but as polarisation takes place , after five minutes , only 0*079 ampere .
The cost of a battery of this size is 0'40 fr .
( 4 d.about ) , it remains in action for six days without the renewal of the sodium .
Batteries of larger dimensions , as for example 10 inches long and If inches wide , last four weeks , because the action is chiefly on the edges of the sodium plate , and the broader the plate the longer the sodium lasts without renewal .
X. " On the Electro-chemical Equivalent of Silver , and on the Absolute Electromotive Force of Clark Cells .
" By Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L , F.R.S. , and Mrs. H. Sidgwick .
Received June 18 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains a record of a long series of experiments , extending over nearly two years .
The measurement of the electric currents is direct , not depending upon a knowledge of the force of terrestrial magnetism .
Three horizontal coils are traversed in succession by the electric current .
Of these two of large diameter are fixed , and at a distance apart equal to the radius of either .
Symmetrically between them a smaller coil is suspended in the balance .
When the current passes , the suspended coil is pressed down , or lifted up , according to the connexions , and the observations relate to the double force called into operation when the direction of the current in the fixed coils is reversed .
In a paper read before the British Association at Southampton it was shown that this construction presents special advantages , and in particular that the calculation of the result does not require an accurate knowledge of the radii of the coils , but only of the ratio of the radii of the small and large coils .
In this way one of the principal difficulties , the measurement of the small coil , is evaded .
The ratio of the radii is found by the electrical method of Bosscha , A large and small coil being adjusted so as to be concentric and coaxal , a very small magnet with attached mirror is suspended at the common centre .
The two circuits are connected electrically in parallel , and resistance is added to one of them until no effect upon the suspended magnet follows a reversal of the battery current .
The ratio of the resistances , to be found immediately by comparison with standards , is the ratio of the galvanometer constants of the two coils , and from this the ratio of the radii may be obtained by the introduction of small corrections relating to the finite dimensions of the

