An Extract out of the 3d and 7th Venetian Giornale de Letterati , concerning the Formation of Faetus 's .
THe Author of these Journals , proposes in the third of them this Inquiry , viz. Wherein consists the causa formatrix of the Faetus ; whether in the native He at , as the Ancients taught ; or in Motion , as the Moderns are inclined to believe : And if the latter , whence that motion proceeds , and here it is diversified for the conservation of various species 's ?
The Journalist having been informed , that Signor Gieronymo Barbato , public Professor of Practical Physic at Padua , and Physician in Venice , had written a Book upon that subject , and illustrated it with new Anatomical Diagrams , all ready for the Press ; did , it seems , obtain the perusal of the Original Manuscript , and permission withal , to make an Extract thereof , which in this Journal he presents the Curious with , to stay their desire whil'st the whole Dissertation is printing .
This Breviate we thought fit to English here out of the Italian , as follows ; The Author , Signor Gieron , Barbato , first delivers the chief Sentiments of the Ancients and Moderns concerning the Formative Soul ; showing that from variety of those Opinions there results nothing but darkness .
He also mentions some others touching the use of the Testicles , whom he modestly refuteth , animadverting upon some Errors both of old and new Anatomists .
Then he discourses of some principal parts constituting the same , which he thinks have not been rightly observed hitherto : And beginning with the vasa pampiniformia , he affirms , that they are made up of a great many Arteries , and of one only Vein , and that this vein , being considerably big , is circularly scituate , that so it may the more conveniently unite it self , by a curiously contrived anastomosis , to those many Arteries .
Then he describes the Use of these Pampiniform vessels , informing us , That the said Arteries are not directly inserted ted into the substance of the Testicles ( as the most famous Anatomists have believed ; ) but that they form , on the side , another membrane hitherto un-observed , ( altogether different from the Albuginea , and the two others , called the Elytroides , ) which being made up of vessels , resembles the Meninges of the Brain , and is by him esteemed to have the like use with it .
And thereupon he shows , that from the Arteries of that Membrane do preceed some small Arteries , for the most part double in their origin , but afterwards becoming one , and so passing into the substance of the Testicles ; but when they are come to the center of them , returning to the abovesaid membrane without being accompanied by the veins : Where he renders a reason , why in the substance of the Testicles there are no veins ; and shows , that in the return of the said arteries there appear some other small vessels , which contain no aliment , but only seminal matter ; and that these do frame in the midst of the Testicles another whitish small membrane , very like the Septum lucidum ; which membrane , receiving vessels from all the parts of the Testicles , except from the back-part , does therefore grow crooked there , and thereby hath deceived that famous Anatomist Dr. Highmore , persuading himself that it is a round and pervious vessel .
Moreover he saith , that the Curvature of the said little membrane serves for a kind of ventricle , to purge away an aqueous moisture , separated , by means of the medullar substance of the Testicles , from the seminal matter contained in the vessels .
He observes further , that the small membrane restrains it self towards the upper part , and it being such an one as consists of minute vessels , there remain yet in that place some of them , though very small ones , which may be observed by a Microscope to be disseminated in that little coat , which passes into the Albigunea near the Pampiniform , and is inserted into the Epididymis ; whence passing through a glandul above the Epididymis , it there deposes a waterish humidity , like that which the double membrane brings with it from the center of the Testicles , and which through the Lymphatic vessels is conveyed towards the Urethra , and comes away before the ejaculation of the semen prolificum .
And the said little vessels afterwards multiplying themselves exceedingly , and being divided into small Cells , do with a wonderful curious contrivance form the Epididymis : Where he discovers the error of him , who believed the Epididymis could be severed from the Testicles without laceration ; assigning withal the Use of that part differently from all other Anatomists .
There he passes to the Parastatae Varici-formes , which emulating the Epididymis , appear also to be full of pretty big vessels , scituate after a curiously contrived manner , and make a nobler show than that of the Epididymis it self , it having the resemblance of an Heart .
And declaring the use of the Parastatae , he saith , that they do not terminate in a nervous body , but plainly in a Nerve , by him called the vas deferens , which , he esteems , carries nothing else but store of animal spirits , which yet according to him are not generated in the Brain , ( nor transported by the Nerves into the Testicles , ) but in the small vessels , which make up the medullar substance of the very Testicles ; which being at last obliterated in the Parastatae , are changed into a thick membrane , of which is formed the vas deferens , sensibly pervious ; that so , by the abolition of the lately mentioned small vessels , it may receive abundance of seminal spirits , called animal , they being produced from one and the same matter , and in one and the same manner .
And that they are so , he further proves from this observation , that the two little Nerves , taken notice of by Anatomists , are inserted only in the external part of the Testicles , receiving their internal sense and motion from the said spirits , generated as above .
And here he maintains , that these Spirits are the Sensitive and Moving Soul , and consequently the Anima formatrix , and that there is no other proximate instrument , save the Intellective soul , quae deforis venit &amp; divina est .
Besides he endeavours to prove that opinion to be false , which holds the Seed to be an Excrement of the last Aliment , and makes it out , that a small quantity of Seed excerned , cerned , enfeebles more than the loss of much Blood .
He refuteth those that have taught the original of the Seed from the Brain ; as also those , that have believed it to proceed from the whole Body .
He assigns the manner , how this Spirit is corporified and incrassated , and why it is so ?
proves experimentally , that being subtilized by the warmth of the Uterus , it becomes a very fine Spirit ; refuting , on this occasion , the opinion of Galen , importing that from the corpulency of the Semen virile the spermatick parts are generated , and asserting on the contrary , that these are formed de sero utili sanguinis menstrui .
By the same Experiment he undertakes to evince , that Dr. Harvey was mistaken , believing the Uterus to be immaterially made fecond , when he found nothing of a seminal body in the wombs of all those Animals opened by him .
Besides he teach eth , how the Semen is mixed cum menstruis ; and how it is moved sutably to the diversity of kinds .
He examins , how the solid parts are generated , and refuting all other opinions about this point , he maintains that they are produced all at once , though they be discerned at different times , according to the greater or less necessity of those parts .
He shows , how they become sensitive , and begin to have life , contending that they are not nourished till they are sensible .
He explains , from what cause and for what end the Heart is moved ; what thing the punctum saliens is , and upon what account it hath been reputed to be the Heart .
And having attempted to resolve many difficulties , he thinks he hath determined many other curious and considerable particulars by experimented principles .

