32 Mr. R. D. Oldham .
On th Effect of the Gangetic Curve 4 .
The current passed through one cell in which 2 inches of carbon was exposed , hut only the tip of the zinc rod touched the liquid .
The values-given for the continuous current are for short circuit through the amperemeter in this and the following .
Curve 5 .
2 inches of carbon rod and \ inch of zinc rod exposed .
Curve 6 .
2 inches of carbon rod and 2 inches of zinc rod exposed .
Curve 7 .
Carbon tip only and 2 inches of zinc rod exposed .
The results may be summarised as follows : ( 1 ) The effect of a given alternating current was much larger when all the cells were in series than when two sets , of five cells each , in parallel were used .
The ratio of the increase was approximately , with the cells in series , change in alternating current : change in continuous current : : 5 : 1 with 10 cells in series .
With two sets of five parallel cells , change in alternating current : change in continuous current : : 12 : 1 .
( 2 ) While the surface of the carbon exposed to the electrolyte only affects the results in so far as it increases the resistance of the cell , the current density at the zinc electrode alters the change in the continuous current greatly .
On the Effect of the Gangetic Alluvium on the Plumb-line in Northern India .
By R. D. Oldham , F.R.S. ( Received January 7 , \#151 ; Read February 12 , 1914 .
) For some years past , the Annual Reports of the Survey of India , and of the Indian Government Board of Scientific Advice , have contained references to the remarkable character of the deflections of the plumb-line at stations near the southern edge of the Himalayas .
These facts , and the explanation which has been adopted by Colonel S. G. Burrard , Surveyor-General for India , have recently been brought into prominence by the publication of a memoir* on " The Origin of the Himalayas/ ' certain parts of which are in contradiction with the conclusions , regarding the structure of the range , that had been drawn from geological observations .
Briefly stated , the geodetic facts are as follows .
Along the southern edge of the Himalayas very high northerly deflections , amounting to about 40 " of * 1 Survey of India/ Professional Paper No. 12 , Calcutta , 1912 .
Alluvium on the Plumb-line in Northern India .
arc , are found , which rapidly decrease in a southerly direction by about 30 " in as many miles , after which the decrease becomes much more gradual , and ultimately , a southerly deflection comes in .
In a northerly direction , also , there is a decrease of deflection , though not so rapid as to the south , and stations up to 30 miles from the edge of the hills , in spite of being nearer to the main range , show a decreasing northerly deflection , which may be as much as 20 " less than that of the marginal stations.* These peculiarities become even more marked if , instead of the observed deflections , attention is turned to the residuals , or differences between the observed deflections and those which are deduced by calculation as the effect of the visible topography .
This has been done for a number of stations in India by Major H. L. Crosthwait , f using Mr. Hayford 's method of allowing for the compensation due to isostasy .
With regard to this method , it may be remarked that , whether the hypothesis of isostasy adopted by Mr. Hayford is correct or not , his method of calculating the effect of compensation appears to give results which are not far from the average effect , and therefore the departure of the observed from the calculated deflections , at any individual station , may be regarded as the effect of a local departure from average conditions .
Regarded in this light , the residuals , which have been calculated as deflections in the meridian , may be converted into deflections normal to the general course of the range , which does not run due east and west at any of the stations dealt with by Major Crosthwait .
This procedure is further justified by the figures given for Dehra Dun , at which the deflections and residuals were calculated both in the meridian and in the prime vertical , and at which the resultant of the residuals is normal to the general course of the range .
I have therefore converted the figures given by Major Crosthwait into deflections normal to the range , and measured the direct distances from the main boundary of the Himalayas .
Confining attention to those stations which lie within 50 miles to the south and 20 miles to the north , being the tract within which , as will be shown further on , the effect of the alluvial filling of the G-angetic depression could be expected to be conspicuous and predominant , data are available for ten stations in all , but four of these cannot be taken into consideration .
One , Murree , because the Himalayas are separated from the Gangetic alluvium by the intervening plateau of the Potwar and the Salt Range ; two , * For details , see 4 Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 205 , pp. 289-318 ( 1905 ) ; the original account is contained in 4 Operations of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , ' vols .
11 and 18 .
t 4 Survey of India , ' Professional Paper No. 13 , Calcutta , 1912 .
VOL. XC.\#151 ; A. 34 Mr. R D. Oldham .
On th Effect of the Gangetic Pathardi and Sora , because the distance from the main Himalayan boundary cannot be determined , as it lies in Nepal ; and a fourth , Birond , because it is an isolated station , with no other near enough for comparison .
On the other hand , we may safely add another station , Kajpur , which is very important , as it lies close to the main Himalayan boundary .
No separate calculation has been made of the effect of the visible topography , but , as it .
lies about half-way between Mussooree and Dehra Dun , which are about 10 miles apart , the effect of all but purely local topography will be the same as at those stations .
From an examination of the maps available , I estimate the effect of this local topography to be equivalent to a northerly deflection of about 6 " greater than at Mussooree or Dehra Dun* and , the observed deflection being 10 " greater , the residual in the meridian becomes \#151 ; 17 " , or about \#151 ; 21 " normal to the range .
This leaves seven stations , forming two groups ranged near the 78 ' and 88 ' meridians respectively , which it will be convenient to take separately , on account of the differences in magnitude of the deflections in each , we have:\#151 ; Station .
Observed deflection in the meridian .
Residual deflection normal to the range .
Distance from main boundary .
Eastern group\#151 ; / / / / Kurseong \#151 ; 46 -23 3 miles N. Siliguri -18 - 7 12 " S. Jalpaiguri - 1 + 7 33 " S. Western group\#151 ; Mussooree -30 -16 4 " N. Rajpur -41 ( -21 ) 0 Delira Dun -31 -15 6 " S. Kaliana - 1 + 2 50 " S. The leading feature in these figures is the existence of a very large residual northerly deflection near the main boundary of the Himalayas , , which decreases rapidly in a short distance on either side , and completely disappears at about 20 to 30 miles southwards .
The hypothesis , in explanation of these facts , which has been offered by Colonel Burrard , is the existence of a belt of deficient density , of considerable depth , but of no great width , along the southern edge of the Himalayas .
So long as this explanation was merely tentative and indicated as a possible hypothesis it ' largely escaped notice , but in the memoir referred to above some definite figures are given , 20 miles in depth is indicated , and , though no actual * This figure agrees well enough with Colonel Burrard 's estimate of -9 " as the effect of the attraction of masses within 5 miles of Rajpur , ' Survey of India , ' 1901 , Professional Paper No. 5 , p. 54 .
Alluvium on the Plumb-line in Northern India .
35 figures are given , the context shows that the width is regarded as somewhere about 5 miles or less .
As the rift , postulated by Colonel Burrard , is on a scale of magnitude far in excess of anything for which there is geological precedent , I was led to investigate the evidence , to see whether some other explanation could not be found , more in accordance with geological observations .
The investigation is not yet complete , but in the course of it I had occasion to study the effect which should result from the facts of geological structure along the southern margin of the range , so far as they are known , and the results of this study seem of sufficient interest , apart from their bearing on the general question of the geological interpretation of the geodetic observations , to be worth publishing .
The facts of geological structure , so far as they need be considered , are very simple , and will be found , reduced to a diagrammatic form suitable for calculation , in the upper part of the diagram on p. 473 of the ' Manual of the Geology of India/ * Briefly expressed , they are as follows:\#151 ; Along the southern edge of the Himalayas there is a great fault separating the older rocks of the range from the , upper tertiary , Siwalik beds , which were long ago shown by Mr. H. B. Medlicottf to have been formed under conditions similar to those of the recent deposits in the Gangetic depression , and to be , in fact , the lower , marginal , deposits of the same continuous formation , of which the Gangetic alluvium forms the uppermost members .
The depth of this formation , along the northern margin , cannot be stated with accuracy , and doubtless varies somewhat at different parts of the range ; it is , however , certainly great , nowhere less than 10,000 feet , and possibly as much as 30,000 feet in places , though a more probable estimate lies between 15,000 and 20,000 feet .
On the southern margin the thickness is small , and the deposit thins out over an old land surface of rock .
Between these two limits the form of the depression , occupied by the alluvium , cannot be determined by direct observation , but it is natural to suppose that the depth decreases gradually from north to south .
The density of the material filling this wedge-shaped depression can be determined within narrow limits ; the lower is fixed at 1*8 , being the density of the surface layers of the Gangetic alluvium , the upper at 2*2 , being the density of the Siwaliks , which are the uplifted basal portion of the formation The mean density must lie between these limits , and , being probably nearer the higher than the lower , has been taken at 2T , J the mean density of the * 2nd edition , Calcutta , 1893 .
t 'Mem .
Geol .
Surv .
Ind.,5 vol. 3 .
I These figures are taken from Colonel Burrard 's memoir , and , having been obtained from the Geological Survey , may be accepted as authoritative .
D 2 Mr. R. D. Oldham .
On the Effect of the Gangetic rock forming the sides and floor of the depression being about 2'7 .
It is the effect of this large bulk of material , having a density of only about seven-ninths of the average density of surface rock , which has been investigated .
The method adopted was based on Mr. Hayford 's system of compartments * The trough was assumed to run east and west , with the deep side on the north .
This is in approximate accordance with the conditions in the Gangetic depression and enables the deflections to be conveniently expressed in terms of the usual convention of the - sign for a northerly , and the + sign for a southerly , deflection .
To simplify calculation , the trough was divided into belts of 10 miles wide , running parallel to the margins , in each of which the depth was assumed to be uniform and equal to the mean depth of the belt ; in other words , the lower surface of the depression was taken as a series of steps each 10 miles wide and gradually decreasing in depth below the surface from north to south .
The number of compartments in each belt , multiplied by the depth and by the'deficiency in density , gives the effective negative attraction , assumed to be concentrated at the surface .
For distances of over 10 miles from the station the error introduced by this assumption is negligible , but in the immediate vicinity of the station an important modification has to be introduced , owing to the fact that the defect in density is not concentrated at the surface , but distributed through a considerable vertical depth .
The correction to be applied for this is easily obtained from Mr. Hayford 's data ; on p. 70 of his memoir he gives a series of factors to be applied to the attraction of visible masses , if they are compensated by a defect of density distributed uniformly through certain given depths , and on p. 154 he gives a method by which the corresponding factors for any other depth may be obtained .
Now these factors represent the difference between the positive attraction of the visible mass , taken as l'O , and the negative attraction of the defect of density by which they are compensated , so that the latter can be obtained by simple subtraction , and is the factor required to reduce the calculated negative attraction of each column of deficient density to the horizontal plane .
Actually these calculations were not gone through in every case , but the effect of the 10-mile belt of alluvium next the station was calculated for certain assumed depths , ranging up to 6 miles .
These were plotted on squared paper and a curve drawn through them , from which the effect , for any required depth , could be obtained by inspection , with sufficient accuracy for the purpose of this investigation .
As a standard , to represent approximately the average conditions , the depth of the depression , at its northern boundary , was taken as 3'5 miles and the * J. F. Hayford , ' The Figure of the Earth and Isostasy , from Measurements in the United States/ Washington , 1909 .
Alluvium on the Plumb-line in Northern India .
37 width as 100 miles ; but further calculations were made , using larger and smaller values for each of these quantities , and from them the approximate effect of other assumed values may be readily obtained by interpolation or , reasonable , extrapolation .
At the outset of my investigation I was only concerned with the difference of deflection as between two points about 10 miles apart and , as the effect of topography at over 50 miles from either would affect both almost equally , it was only necessary to consider the attraction of masses within that distance ; these are the values which are given , to the nearest whole second of arc , in Tables I and II .
The effect of including the attraction of masses within greater distances , and of introducing a compensation for isostasy , was also considered and is referred to below .
Table I.\#151 ; Deflections produced by a Trough of Alluvium of various widths ; 3*5 miles deep at the northern boundary , 0 miles at the southern boundary .
Mean density of alluvium 2*1 , of rock 2*7 .
Portions within 50 miles from stations only considered .
Distance from northern edge .
Width of alluvium .
70 miles .
100 miles .
140 miles .
miles .
/ / .
" / / 40 - 2 - 2 - 2 30 - 3 - 3 - 3 20 - 6 - 6 - 6 10 -10 -11 -12 5 -14 -15 -16 0 -26 -28 -29 5 -11 -14 -15 10 - 5 - 7 - 9 20 + 3 0 - 2 30 + 7 + 4 + ' 2 40 + 9 + 6 + 4 50 + 10 + 8 + 6 60 + 10 + 8 + 6 70 + 8 + 8 + 6 80 + 3 + 8 + 6 90 + 1 + 8 + 6 100 0 + 5 + 6 110 0 + 2 + 6 120 0 + 1 + 6 130 0 0 + 6 140 0 0 + 4 150 0 0 + 1 38 Mr. R D. Oldham .
On the Effect of the Gangetic Table II.\#151 ; Deflections produced by a Trough of Alluvium , 100 miles in width ; depth at the northern boundary as stated , 0 miles at the southern boundary .
Mean density of alluvium 2T , of rock 2*7 .
Portions within 50 miles from station only considered .
Distance from northern edge .
Depth at northern boundary .
5*25 miles .
3*5 miles .
1*75 miles .
miles .
n / / tt 50 0 0 0 40 - 2 - 2 - 1 30 - 5 - 3 - 2 20 - 9 - 6 - 3 10 -16 -11 - 5 5 -23 -15 - 8 0 -37 -28 -17 5 -20 -13 - 7 10 -11 - 7 - 3 20 ~ 1 0 0 30 + 5 + 4 + 2 40 + 9 + 6 + 3 50 + 11 + 8 + 4 60 + 11 + 8 + 4 70 + 11 + 8 + 4 80 + 11 + 8 + 4 90 + 10 + 8 + 4 100 + 8 + 5 + 3 110 + 3 + 2 + 1 120 + 1 + 1 0 130 0 0 o 140 T ) 0 o 150 0 0 0 The values given in these tables include , as has been said , only the effect of masses within 50 miles of the stations ; if this distance is extended to 100 miles , the deflections , in the case of a trough 3-5 miles deep at the northern margin and 100 miles broad , become\#151 ; / / At 50 miles K of the northern boundary ... ... ... ... ... . .
_ 4 " 50 " S. " " 100 " S. " \#187 ; 150 " S. " -31 + 9 + 9 + 1 The effect of a further extension of the distance is inappreciable for , even if the trough is assumed to extend for 1200 miles on either side of the station , the deflections at either boundary are only increased by 0-4 " , and at 50 miles out by 0'5 " ; within the limits of the trough , the effect sinks to Alluvium on the Plumb-line in Northern India .
As so great a defect in mass may reasonably be expected to be compensated , in the same manner as is found in the case of mountain ranges , the effect of such compensation , assumed to be complete , was calculated , using Mr. Hayford 's factors , with the result that , all masses within 100 miles being considered , the resulting deflections became\#151 ; / / At 50 miles jST .
of the northern boundary ... .
- 1 ... .
-24 i ) , 50 s. " 11 ... .
+ 5 100 s. " \#187 ; . . . . .
... .
+ 4 , , a. v/ v/ " 150 s. " } ) \#187 ; ... .
0 From these figures it will be seen that the nature of the effect is the same in every case , though the amount may vary , and that the effect of a depression , such as is occupied by the Gangetic alluvium , assuming its form to be such as has been independently determined from geological observation , would be to produce a large northerly deflection , amounting from 20 " to 30 " , along the extreme edge of the Himalayas , a deflection which would almost disappear at about 50 miles to the northwards , and completely disappear at about 20 to 30 miles southwards , to be replaced by a southerly deflection from thence to , and for some distance beyond , the southern margin .
These deflections would be superimposed on those produced by the visible topography , and it will be noticed that they are of the same character as , and not materially different in magnitude from , the residuals , or unexplained deflections , shown in the figures given on p. 34 .
For comparison with the results detailed above , it may be useful to consider the effect which would be produced by a deep and narrow rift , filled with matter of less density than the rock on either side , and , for the purpose of calculation , I have assumed a depth of 17 miles , a width of 5 miles , and a defect of density equal bo one-ninth of the surrounding rock .
With these data the deflections deduced are :\#151 ; At 20 miles north of the rift / / - 4 " 10 " " - 5 " 5 )\gt ; " ... ... ... .
\#151 ; 7 " northern edge " ... ... ... .
\#151 ; 17 , , XAVAUUOIU CUgC , , " southern edge " ... \#151 ; -L / +17 " 5 miles south .
, ... + 7 \#187 ; 10 " " ... + 5 , 20 " " ... + 4 40 Effect of Gangetic Alluvium on Plumb-line in Northern India .
These figures will vary with any change in the adopted values of the dimensions , or of density of the matter filling the rift , but the general character of the curve will be unaltered .
The greatest deflections will be at the edges of the rift , in opposite directions and away from the rift in either case , the amount of the deflection decreasing , without change of sign , with increasing distance from the rift in either direction .
It will be noticed that , north of the Himalayan boundary , there would be no great difference in character between the curve deduced from this , hypothesis and that which results from the geological structure , as generally accepted , but to the south of the boundary the difference would be radical .
_____t ' IOOOO 5000 0 ft. Miles 40 Fig. 1.\#151 ; Below is represented a generalised section across the outer Himalayas and Gangetic plain in about 88 ' E. Long. ; the vertical scale exaggerated about five times .
To the right , the general form of the Gangetic depression , as assumed for the purpose of calculation , is indicated , to the same vertical scale , by the dotted line , and the equivalent deficiency of mass , expressed as rock of the average density of the range , by the firm line .
Above are shown curves of , I , deflections due to the defect of mass in the Gangetic depression , converted into the meridian ; II , of the calculated effect of visible topography , assumed to be compensated for isostasy , as determined by Major Crosthwait ; and , III , of the observed deflection of the plumb-line .
It will be noticed that , in the region near and to the south of the main Himalayan boundary , the Curve III is closely concordant with the combined effects of I and II ; northwards of the main boundary data for comparison are wanting .
Bound dots represent observed deflections ; crosses , the , compensated , effect of visible topography .
Distances are measured normal to the general direction of the range ; deflections in the meridian .
Note on Osmotic Pressure .
On the hypothesis of a rift the southerly residual should be greatest close to the boundary , and decrease with increasing distance , whereas the residual deflections actually continue to have a northerly sign till a distance of 20 to 30 miles is reached , and then a southerly sign , increasing in amount with an increase of distance from the Himalayas .
The general conclusions to be drawn from these investigations seem to be twofold : ( 1 ) that the local deflections of the plumb-line , produced by underground topography , along the region bordering the southern margin of the Himalayas , are of such magnitude as to make the observations , at stations situated in that region , of small geodetic value , unless allowance is made for the invisible , as well as the visible , topography ; and ( 2 ) that there is no geodetic justification for the assumption of the existence of a deep and narrow rift , filled with material of lesser density than the rock on either side , or for any modification of the deductions , regarding the form of the floor of the Gangetic depression , which have been drawn from geological observation .
Note on Osmotic Pressure .
By W. R. Bousfield , M.A. , K.C. ( Communicated by Sir W. Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received January 8 , \#151 ; Read February 12 , 1914 .
) The vapour pressure theory regards osmotic pressure as the pressure required to produce equilibrium between the pure solvent and the solution .
Pressure applied to a solution increases its internal vapour pressure .
If the compressed solution be on one side of a semi-permeable partition and the pure solvent on the other , there is osmotic equilibrium when the com- .
pression of the solution brings its vapour pressure to equality with that of the solvent .
So long ago as 1894 Ramsay* found that with a partition of palladium , permeable to hydrogen but not to nitrogen , the hydrogen pressures on each side tended to equality , notwithstanding the presence of nitrogen under pressure on one side , which it might have been supposed would have resisted the transpiration of the hydrogen .
The bearing of this experiment on the problem of osmotic pressure was recognised by va n't Hoff , who observes !
that " it is very instructive as regards the means * 4 Phil. Mag.,5 vol. 38 , p. 206 ( 1894 ) .
t Ya n't Hoff , 'Lectures on Theoretical and Physical Chemistry , ' Part II , p. 38 .

