109 1903 .
] Evolution of the Colour-pattern Lizards .
" Evolution of the Colour-Pattern and Orthogenetic Variation in certain Mexican Species of Lizards , with Adaptation to their Surroundings .
" By Hans Gadow , F.R.S. Received May 22 , \#151 ; Read May 28 , 1903 .
[ Plates 3\#151 ; 5 .
] I .\#151 ; Introduction .
The late Th. Eimer* has shown that the variations of the colour-pattern of the European Lacerta muralproceed each on definite lines until a certain stage is attained which is characteristic of the race , or variety , in question .
This mode of development he has termed orthogenetic .
As a rule , the successive changes in the colour-pattern of lizards , are as follows : First longitudinal stripes , then dissolution of the stripes into spots , then confluence of the spots in a transverse direction so that a cross-barred pattern is produced , lastly a uni-coloured appearance .
There are some lizards which pass through the whole scale during their growth from youth to old age .
Others again stop short at perhaps the second , or even at the first stage .
This phenomenon of arrested development he has termed when applicable to a whole association of individuals , be such a community a local race , representative of a sub-species , or of the dignity of specific or even higher rank ; ontepistasis when the same phenomenon applies only to individuals , for instance , if a specimen of a normally cross-barred kind should stop short at the spotted stage .
Again , there are precocious individuals , races and species , which , instead of passing through the whole scale , begin already with the second , or another later stage .
Moreover , there are new and further departures which , leading beyond the normal condition , are liable ultimately to accumulate , or to consolidate into the formation of new races , \amp ; c. All these changes are , as a rule , initiated , at least they are earlier and more frequently visible in the males , while the females often remain at a lower , more juvenile , level .
Lastly , these changes begin near the tail and proceed wave-like forwards , so that , for instance , the shoulder region may be still in one stage , while the lumbar region has already assumed the final aspect .
This is Eimer 's law of postero-anterior development , and since these successive changes , like successive waves , pass not only over the bodies of individuals of one kind , but also over species and genera ( provided they be arranged as striped , spotted , barred and uni-coloured forms ) , Eimer suggested the term undulatory development .
* " Untersuchungen ueber das Variiren der Mauereidechso , ein Beitrag / m1 Iheorie Ton der Entwicklung aus eonstitutionellen Ursachen , sowie zum Davvvin-isrnus , " 'Arch .
f. Naturg .
, ' vol. 47 ( 1881 ) , pp. 239-517 , plates 13\#151 ; 15 .
110 Dr. H. Gadow .
Evolution of the Colour-pattern [ May The general applicability of Eimer 's " laws " has been tested with favourable results in all classes of vertebrata , although naturally in many cases the detailed investigation is obscured by csenogenetic omissions and other modifications .
Cope* has repeated Eimer 's observations by the study of several kinds of the American lizard-genus Cnemidophorus , and he has illustrated several successive changes from stripes to cross-bars in tesselatus and C. gularis .
But he has split the whole genus into a bewildering number of species and sub-species , not allowing sufficient scope for individual variation , and he has apparently not exemplified his points on specimens from the same locality .
An attempt to study these and similar changes minutely and in series , and to connect them with the prevailing conditions of the surroundings , has hitherto not been made .
I have been fortunate during the last summer in collecting material sufficient to show , first , the amplitude of individual variation ; secondly , that there exist in the various kinds of several modes of attaining the same end , that each of these modes may occur , and proceed to a moderate extent individually , carrying the individual out of its normal way , and lastly , that some of these changes seem to be governed by the physical conditions ( constitutional or organic , and the prevailing features of the terrain ) , while sexual selection plays none , and natural selection but a secondary part .
Such inquiries cannot be made unless the exact conditions of the terrain , and the habits of the creatures are observed .
My collections and observations were made in steaming hot tropical forests , in hot and dry lowlands , and on the more temperate table-lands of Southern Mexico .
My material has been compared with that in the National Collection , and I have to thank Mr. Boulenger for his ever-ready invaluable help and advice .
II.\#151 ; The Structural Variations and the Mutual Affinities of Various Kinds of Cnemidophorus .
It is a tedious , but necessary , preliminary to record the amplitude of the so-called structural variations within the recognisable kinds of Cnemidophorus .
Whether these be called species , sub-species , or races is a matter of personal inclination , but the smaller the structural differences , the more significant will be the differences in pattern and coloration in such closely allied forms , provided these live under other physical conditions .
All the various Cnemidophorus and Ameiva live on the ground , never climbing trees hunting for insects .
I recognise five definable forms of Cnem as occurring in Southern # ' Axner .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' 1885 , p. 283 ; and ' .Report of the U.S. National Museum , ' 1898 , p. 569 .
1903 .
] and Orthogcnetic Variation in Lizards , etc. Ill Mexico ; G. deppei , Wiegm ; G. guttatus , Wiegm ; striatus ; Peters ; C. bocourti , Boulenger .
The number of the small granular scales on the back varies extremely .
Counted in transverse rows across the body , such a row contains in C. deppei from 93 to 150 and more , regardless of sex and age ; in C. guttatus from about 100 to 180 .
The relative size of these scales is consequently not a trustworthy character .
The number of plates is normally 4 in C. mexicanus and C. bocourti , but sometimes the most posterior plate is very small , separated from the rest , or absent .
In G. guttatus and G. deppei the number is normally reduced to 3 .
The posterior edge of the collar on the neck is abrupt , being formed by the enlarged scales themselves , in C. bocourti , while in G. guttatus and G. striatus the edge is formed by one or more complete series of granules .
In the majority of adult G. deppei there is one complete series of granules ; several females show one granule between each scale , and in others the collar ends abruptly without granules .
Lastly in G. mexicanus this character breaks down completely , independent of age and sex .
Number of enlarged scales on the forearm : 2 rows in G. deppei and G. guttatus ; 3 , rarely 2 in G. bocourti , 3 in G. mexicanus .
Slightly enlarged granules or scales on the posterior aspect of the forearm : the whole posterior surface is uniformly granular in C. guttatus ; a few slightly enlarged scales near the elbow in some G. deppei ; a cluster nearer the hand , almost imperceptible in G. several slightly enlarged rows in some G. deppei ; several long rows of distinctly enlarged scales in C. mexicanus and G. bocourti .
A separate cluster of slightly enlarged granules or scales occurs on the hinder surface of the upper arm ( so-called near the elbow , separated from the large scales by small granules ; G. guttatus ; some G. striatus and some G. deppei .
No such cluster occurs in G. mexicanus , bocourti , most deppei and some striatus .
The enlarged scales which protect the thighs ' anterior and inner surface are arranged in several rows ; 6\#151 ; 7 in C. deppei ( 7 ) , 8 or 9 in G. bocourti 8 or 9 in G. mexicanus , rarely 8 , mostly 9 to 12 in guttatus and striatus .
Number of rows of enlarged tibial scales : 2 inmost G. deppei increasing towards 3 , remaining at 2J in other deppei , in striatus and increased to 3 complete rows in some deppei , in guttatus , some bocourti and in mexicanus .
The cluster of enlarged preanal scales is separated from the regular ventrals by about half-a-dozen short , transverse rows of small roundish scales , so that there is a distinct break between anals and ventrals : , G. guttatus and striatus .
The preanal cluster is separated from the ventrals by but few scales , which are arranged rather irregularly , and are in size not so abruptly smaller than the ventrals , and they form a narrow isthmus : G. deppei , mexicanus , bocourti .
The variations in the number of femoral pores can be expressed 112 Dr. H. Gadow .
Evolution of the Colour-pattern [ May 22 , diagrammatically .
It should , moreover , be observed , that the number of pores on the right and left thighs not unfrequently differ by one or two .
Number of pores ... 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 : ... bocourti ... ... ... .\ : : :.mexicamis ... ... ... .
: : : ... .deppei ... ... .
: : :..guttatus and striatus ... ... : None of these characters , usually applied in " keys , " are absolutely reliable when considered singly and when used to establish categories , but taken together they are sufficient to define the five kinds of Cnemidophorus which occur in Southern Mexico .
In addition , there is the size of the adult , the colour-pattern and above all the mode of its change .
This brings us to a point of general importance .
Two given forms may structurally approach each other so closely , and the differences still existing may be of such slight weight , that we can separate them only by their pattern of colour , and if this happens likewise to be in a changing mood , the two sets of creatures can no longer ( or not yet ) be regarded as different , nor as geographical races when they live in the same place .
Where the physical conditions are exactly the same , monotonous , there occurs only one species of the same genus , for instance , in a desert , on a treeless prairie , in a dense forest ; but if the terrain is varied , although for all practical purposes remaining the same , there is as likely as not more than one species .
If these are closely allied we have a chance of correctly connecting their differences with their surroundings .
This applies to C. and C. bocourti .
Again , close allies afford the same chance if they inhabit markedly different localities , no matter whether these kinds of terrain are geographically distant or close together .
An instance of this are C. guttatus and C. striatus .
Now , C. bocourti and C. guttatus are in most structural characters extremes of each other , but both are the spotted representatives of their nearest allies in terrain which produces an abundance of broken shade .
Moreover , C. mexicanus and C. bocourti stand as larger sized modifications in the same relation to C. sexlineatus of the Southern United States as C. guttatus and C. striatus db to the small and strongly striated C. deppei , which is the southern counterpart of C. sexlineatus .
It is also significant that it is not C. guttatus but C. striatus with which C. deppei has more structural affinity , and that both these forms occur partly together , at least in the Tehuantepec district .
1903 .
] and OrthogeneticVariation in Lizards , etc. III.\#151 ; Evolution and Variation of the Colour-Pattern .
Cnemidophorus deppei , Wiegm .
( fig. 1 , PL 3 ) .
The pattern of this small species is always striped , the white lines* 1 to 4 contrasting sharply with the alternating dark fields , but there is great variation within the midregion enclosed by stripes 4\#151 ; 4 .
Stage A. 8 White Stripes.\#151 ; Specimens with only 4 pairs of white stripes and with a narrow uniformly dark centre field are rare .
Stage B. 9 White Stripes.\#151 ; Represented by about 24 per cent. , babies and adult of both sexes .
The white central stripe is either still short and very thin , or it reaches from the neck to the tail .
Occasionally it is represented only by a faint row of white dots and streaks , and the two lines 4\#151 ; 4 combine in front and behind .
StageC .
10 White Stripes.\#151 ; Represented by about 40 per cent. , comprising babies and adult .
The original midfield between stripes 4\#151 ; 4 is divided by a black centre line which exhibits every stage from separate specks or long dots to a complete streak which extends over the greater length of the trunk , leaving , however , the new pair of white lines 5\#151 ; 5 confluent in front and behind .
The modification from Stage B to C seems to be brought about by a broadening of the originally impaired centre line 5 , in the middle of which appear tiny black specks which increase longitudinally , while the white line broadens out .
In Stage C these new white lines are further emphasised by black pigment which is more densely deposited between them and the lines 4\#151 ; 4 .
Stage I ) .
11 White Stripes.\#151 ; Represented by about 30 per cent. , all adult .
This condition is a further development of Stage C. The original midfield between 4\#151 ; 4 has become still broader .
The same applies to the black centre line , which , beginning on the middle of the trunk , is rent asunder , owing to the appearance of new white tissue .
This splitting of the black line is continued , until at last a new white and long stripe 6 is produced , which , in old specimens , may extend over nearly the whole length of the back .
The Stages A to D are so gradually connected with each other that it is impossible to refer every specimen to one or other of the four categories .
This applies especially to those which show only 8 white stripes , but with the centre field between 4\#151 ; 4 broad and rather pale , brown or grey , much paler than the other dark fields , although distinctly darker than the lines 4\#151 ; 4 .
The centre of this midfield is * The white lines are counted proceeding from the sides of the body towards the middle of the back .
The first line passes through the outer ear , over the root of the upper arm , along the sides of the body and then on to the thigh .
The second line extends from the upper margin of the eye to the hip joint .
The third begins at the posterior occipital corner .
114 Dr. H. Gadow .
Evolution of the Colour-pattern [ May 22 , sometimes lightened up , indicating transition to Stage B ; or blackish pigment is collected in the centre and also on the inner borders of lines 4\#151 ; 4 , so that Stage C seems to be foreshadowed .
On the other hand , there are a few aged specimens which suggest , by the mottled and irregular distribution of the pigment within the broad centre field 4\#151 ; 4 .
) that they have relapsed from an 11-striped to the 8-striped condition .
Another Field of Variation in pattern and colour are the sides of the body , from the ear-stripe , No. 1 , down to the ventral scales .
This lateral region is very liable to become " ornamented " with white roundish spots or patches , arranged in one or two , rarely in three longitudinal rows , which begin at the thighs and decrease in distinctness towards the arms .
There are several degrees:\#151 ; 1 .
The stripe No. 1 is complete and there is no lateral row .
Observed in females only .
2 .
The stripe 1 is complete and below it is a short , or faint , line , continuous or as interrupted spots ; rather frequent in female or very young 9-striped specimens .
3 .
Stripe 1 is more or less broken up into a string of white beads ; below it follows a row of large , roundish white spots : one 8- and one 9-striped female , and one 10-striped male ; or there are two very conspicuous rows of spots : the majority of males , nearly all with 10 or 11 stripes .
4 .
Same as 3 , but not only line 1 , but also line 2 is broken up into white beads , and the two lateral rows are very conspicuous .
Observed in large and small males .
The development of lateral spots is , with individual exceptions , pre-eminently a feature of vigorous males .
The same applies with still greater force to the colour of the under parts .
They are yellowish-white , or with a faint bluish tinge , in the young and in the females , but blue or almost black in males from the breeding season towards the " winter .
" The dark blue is most intense on the abdomen , on the chest , and on the narrow collar , extending over the under surface of the thighs and arms and suffusing the throat .
Cnemidophorusguttatm , Wiegm .
This species is restricted to the hot parts of tropical Mexico , and appears as two races , which structurally not distinguishable , are very different in their colour pattern .
The striped race has hitherto been found only ori and near the Isthmus of Tehuantepec , where it inhabits the same kind of terrain as the small C. deppei but with less scanty vegetation.- The spotted race is restricted to the open forests with dense undergrowth , ranging from n6ar Vera Cruz to the eastern slope of the Isthmus .
1903 .
] and Orthogendic Variation in Lizards , etc. C. Guttatus var .
Striata ( fig. 2).\#151 ; The young of the first year are decidedly dark above ; only the first pair of stripes is white , although thin and sometimes vanishing towards the arms ; the other stripes are so little pronounced that they appear only under certain lights as greenish bronzy bands , somewhat lighter than the ground colour .
Older specimens exhibit variation from 6 to 7 or 8 white stripes , even with an incipient 9th , and these variations can be grouped as follows :\#151 ; Stage A. 6 Stripes.\#151 ; In a specimen 80 mm. in length the third pair of stripes is united on the neck .
The enclosed midfield is dark and shows very faint , pale mottlings , due to an irregular double row of spots on the lumbar region and lower back , confluent on the middle of the back .
Stage B.\#151 ; The 3rd pair of stripes forms parallel lines .
On the mid-field conspicuous white spots form a double row on the middle of the trunk , single , by confluence towards the shoulders .
Further modification of this double central row ( equivalent to stripes 4 ) leads either to Stage C or to D. Stage C. 7 White Stripes.\#151 ; The central stripe , formed by fusion of the double row , is composed of white beads , or beads and a continuous stripe of variable extent .
Stage D. 8 White Stripes .
\#151 ; The double row is joined into one on the neck , but is continued over the back in two conspicuous lines , 4-4 , which on the lumbar region are each dissolved into a row of spots .
Stage E. 9 White Stripes.\#151 ; The same as D , but in the mid-line of the back , or on the lumbar region , has appeared a short row of white spots , indicating a 5th unpaired line .
In older specimens the first pair of lines becomes faint and shortens from before backwards , and lateral spots , below this line , appear in two rows .
Additional small spots make their appearance near the tail and on the lumbar region in the dark fields between the lines 1\#151 ; 2 and 2\#151 ; 3 .
The colour of the under parts varies but little : yellowish-white in the females , suffused with pale blue in the males , and the latter have always a narrow blackish collar .
C. Guttatus var .
Guttata ( fig. 3 , PI .
4).\#151 ; The important features of this very dark race are the complete breaking up of the 4th and 3rd pair of lines into whitish-yellow spots , the breaking up and fading of the 2nd and 1st pair of lines , and , lastly , the complete disappearance of the spots from the root of the tail forwards over the lower back .
These changes are gradual and proceed regularly with age .
In very young specimens all the underparts are uniformly white , including the collar .
Lines 1 and 2 above are still pronounced white stripes , although sometimes partly broken into short streaks , and fading towards the arms .
The original stripes 3 and 4 are already 116 Dr. H. Gadow .
Evolution of the Colour-pattern [ May 22 , dissolved into rows of about 25 small , pale dots , reaching from the neck to the tail .
With advancing age these dotted rows become faint , whilst further forwards they become more pronounced .
Then they enlarge slightly , approaching thereby , and ultimately neighbouring spots of the rows 3 and 4 fuse with each other , so that the back assumes a slightly yellow-barred appearance .
Especially the old males , with vanishing stripes 1 and 2 , and without specks on the lower back , do not suggest in the slightest way that these creatures started originally with 4 pale stripes .
The underparts are more or less dark blue in old males , yellowish or greenish-white , suffused with blue , in the females .
The collar is invariably blackish .
Cnemidophorus mexicanus , Peters ( fig. 4 , PI .
4 ) .
This rather large lizard is an inhabitant of the southern table-land , provided its elevation remains well within the temperate zone .
The terrain is rather barren ; always devoid of luxurious or dense vegetation .
During their growth these lizards pass through an extraordinary series of changes in their colour pattern .
Stage A. With 6 white stripes.\#151 ; The young , up to 60 mm. , possess three pairs of complete white stripes , sharply alternating with narrow , dark brown fields .
Stage B.\#151 ; Pale , faint spots appear in the fields between the stripes 1\#151 ; 2 and 2\#151 ; 3 , and the midfield between 3\#151 ; 3 becomes lighter in this way , that the dark pigment is arranged in tiny dots , or in more continuous lines against the inner borders of the 3rd stripes ; and occasionally there appears also a darker central streak .
Then , with a head to tail length of about 70 mm. , the spots in the fields become lighter , more numerous , and arrange themselves in double rows , and the midfield 3\#151 ; 3 becomes broader and greenish .
Stage C.\#151 ; When the lizards approach the length of 100 mm. the double rows of field spots become transversely confluent , and the lateral stripes 1 and 2 , hitherto very conspicuous , become dull , and lose their sharp contours .
Owing to the confluence of the pale spots each field is now broken up into some 20 to 22 dark cross-bars .
These bars become darker , sometimes black brown , and encroach upon the dissolving white stripes 1 , 2 , and 3 , whilst the remaining parts of these lines join , or merge into the adjoining confluent transverse spots , which are still expanding .
Stage D.\#151 ; Ultimately the whole back and the sides of the body assume a very complex pattern ; brown , pale brown , and white colours , mottled or vermiculating , in the main , however , decidedly cross-barred .
In some cases the black bars from the right and left meet across the back .
The extent to which the longitudinal pale lines 1903 .
] and Orthogenetic Variation in Lizards , etc. 117 disappear , or remain more or less vestigial , varies extremely , and in the adult of both sexes , strictly speaking , the detail of the whole complicated pattern is scarcely the same in two individuals from the same locality .
The midfield , between stripes 3\#151 ; 3 , although unimportant , since it never produces any marked characters , undergoes individual changes which remind us of those which occur in other species .
As a rule the midfield becomes lighter in the way described above , and it turns green in immature specimens ; later it becomes pale grey-brown , and ultimately more or less mottled and barred with dark pigment .
But in one baby of 59 mm. there is a faint , unpaired , central streak , which extends back from the occiput ; and in a specimen of 87 mm. this line is still paler , almost white , bifurcating and extending right down to the rump .
These lines represent undoubtedly the 4th pair of stripes , Otherwise absent in C. mexicams .
Sometimes , however , pale spots appear in this midfield , arranged in two rows , as indications of the 4th pair of lines .
On the other hand , there is in a few cases a distinct narrow , dark line in the centre of the green field .
The under parts of these lizards are yellowish-white , with a reddish tinge on the under surface of the hind limbs , and on the throat , while the under surface of the tail and the whole of its terminal half are often orange to almost brick-red .
The collar is never dark .
The chest and abdomen of old specimens , especially males , are suffused with greenish or faint blue , while the basal edges of the scales are blackish .
After removal of the horny portion of the epidermis the under parts appear quite blue-black , owing to thick pigmentation in the malpighian and in the cutaneous strata .
Gnemidophorus bocourti , Blgr .
( fig. 5 , PI .
5 ) .
Structurally , this lizard is but'a slight variety of C. , with which it shares the same distribution , except that it is more partial to denser vegetation .
It is spotted instead of cross-barred or striped , standing in this respect in the same relation to C. mexicams as C. striatus does to C. guttatus .
All the three stripes are broken up into numerous yellow spots , and a row of equally numerous spots is developed in the fields , and below the original line 1 , so that there are in all about 12 to 14 rows of spots across the body .
On the lumbar region the spots are more irregular and crowded ; towards the shoulders they become scarcer , and further forwards they disappear altogether , while faint traces of the original pale lines 1 and 2 remain visible .
In very old specimens the spots are small and irregular , and restricted to the lumbar region , the rest of the back being spotless brown , with a warm reddish tint .
VOL. lxxii .
K 118 Dr. H. Gadow .
Evolution of the Colour-pattern [ May 22 , The under parts of neck , throat , and arms are greenish-white , yellowish on the tail ; chest and abdomen are dark blue , mottled with white .
Sometimes , not only in old males , faint blackish mottlings extend upon the collar , and even upon the throat .
Such spotted C. bocourti have hitherto been found in only a few , rather isolated districts .
I myself found them in the immediate vicinity of the town of Oaxaca , amongst the tangled growth of shady trees and hedges .
A large gravid female in the National Collection , from Santo Domingo de Guzman on the isthmus , and several immature specimens from the Sierra de Nayarit , Jalisco ( oak forests ) are intermediate in colour between C. bocourti and C. mexicanus .
Others are known from " California .
" Ameiva undulata , Wiegm .
( fig. 6 , PI .
5 ) .
The only species of this otherwise South and Central American genus , which extends into Mexico , where it is an inhabitant of the hot and moist tropical open forest belt , frequenting open and sandy patches .
Very young specimens , about 45 mm. in length , are very dark brown , with two pairs of yellow lines extending from head to tail .
In older specimens much black pigment is deposited on either side of stripe 1 , which thereby is encroached upon and broken up into streaks and spots .
The whole field between stripes 1 and 2 becomes mottled , or vermiculated with brown and black , the black disposing itself in irregular , incomplete cross-bars .
Some females remain in this condition .
A further stage is entered upon by the appearance of one or more rows of patches in the field 1\#151 ; 2 , at first pale brown , then gray , ultimately , white ; small whitish spots and dots appear between stripe 1 and the central scales .
This is typical of many adult females and immature males .
In the final stage , characteristic of most adult males , the patches on the field 1\#151 ; 2 become confluent into a broad , irregularly bordered , very conspicuous white band , extending from the tail to the shoulder .
The lateral spots are enlarged and combined transversely into pure white patches .
Stripe 2 is completely overwhelmed by blackish pigment , only a narrow and faint streak remaining on the neck .
Some adult females remain at intermediate stages , the lateral spots and those of the original line 1 remaining small , while the newly-formed light row in the field 1\#151 ; 2 is represented by a pale gray band , bordered by black ; the whole of stripe 2 remains as a faint , narrow , streak .
1903 .
] and Orthogenetic Variation in Lizards , etc. Summary of the Evolution of the Pattern ( fig. 7 ) .
Longitudinal white stripes can be dissolved into spots , and this breaking up proceeds from the tail forwards .
On the other hand , pale spots can by confluence produce longitudinal stripes , in Ameiva and in the lines which appear in the centre field of C. striatus and C. deppei .
Another mode of the production of white stripes is the concentration of the dark pigment along the borders of an existing dark band , while new , colourless tissue grows in the middle of such band , which ultimately is transformed into a white stripe flanked by a dark one .
Or , in the case of the unpaired spinal band , this process may be reversed ; dark pigment appearing in the centre of the broadening white band , which thereby is split into two white stripes .
This process is repeated alternately , cf. in C. deppei , ranging from 8 to 11 stripes .
Confluence of pale spots in a transverse direction , accompanied by a massing of dark pigment along the newly-formed borders , leads to a pattern of cross-bars , cf. C. mexicams .
Uniform coloration is the last , highest , stage attainable .
Concerning Cnemidophorus , the various lines of evolution are the following ; assuming as the starting point a small form like the typical C. sexlineatus with 6 strongly marked white stripes :\#151 ; 1 .
In sandy terrain with sparse tufts of grass .
Increased number of sharply marked stripes with tendency to increase from 8 to 11 : G. deppei .
2 .
In the same terrain , but with less scanty vegetation .
Usually 7 to 9 stripes which tend to break up into spots on the lower back , and reduction of the lateral stripe : C. guttatus striatus .
3 .
In open tropical forest , with much undergrowth .
Fading of the lateral stripe ; dissolution of the other stripes into numerous small spots , which disappear with age on the lower back : C. guttatus guttatus .
4 .
On the open table-land , with scattered spiny shrubs and hedges .
Change of the young with 6 sharp stripes and pale spots on the dark bands to a cross-barred pattern ; C. mexicanus .
5 .
Same localities as the last , but with more mixed vegetation .
All the lines are broken up into spots , in addition to those on the intermediate parts : C. bocourti , a spotted race of C. mexicanus .
There can be no doubt about it that in the genus Cnemidophoms the permanently striped condition is the original , while the spotted is a secondary modification , upon which in turn follows the formation of cross-bars .
Both the spotted and the barred forms have a tendency towards uniform coloration .
This ultimate and highest stage is partly reached by C. bocourti and C. guttatus , without the interposition of a barred stage .
Parallel cases are Cope 's C. semifasciatus and tesselatusrubidus , which are terminal side issues of the typically striped , Dr. H. Gadow .
Evolution of the Colour-'pattern [ May 22 , Fig. 7 .
I. / 2332 / / 2 3* | . .
* 1 .
i \#171 ; |\#187 ; 1 * II 1 t | II 1 1 il M | II ll i i ll ,1111 i .
i 1 t | | l a \#171 ; i 1 .
* 1 1 ll Ii ll III 1 * / 234 \lt ; ' I t I I .
12 3+3 / 2 3+ A I * * # / 2 3^^ .
' \#171 ; . . .
* 1 O o 4 1 1 6 1 la 14 * 1 1 o f\gt ; .
Pa \#169 ; a 1 0 o e 1 1 1 W 4 0 1 c 0 0 \#169 ; 1 CO tx\#187 ; d 00 * ca \lt ; 1 0 9 P ft 0 0 * .
a c 9 \#187 ; 0 0 0 9 .
4 0 00 a i \#169 ; m * / 2 3 32 f oM i e 3 3 5 " 1 oo ; :0 M 9 It S=or fed* e\#163 ; Hg \amp ; m \lt ; .
: : w.H i i \#171 ; f \#187 ; ii .s .M ?
J\lt ; *eLp \#171 ; . !
J ' ?
S*g*| ' d / 2 3 3 u u \amp ; * o o O ' O O ** J* o o \#169 ; ~* O .
' 12 3 3 \gt ; .\#187 ; . . . . .
* # o \lt ; e . .
6.i / 2 3 .
Y. v / 2343 4 4 4 4 \#187 ; .* !
: .
h : + Diagrams showing the evolution of the colour pattern of Cnemidophorus , I. C. guttatus striatus .
II .
\#163 ; 7 .
guttatus guttatus , III .
( 7 .
mexicanus .
IV .
C7 .
bocourti .
V. ( 7 .
deppei .
The numerals 1 , 2 3 , 4 indicate the identical or homologous white lines or series of spots .
1903 .
] and Orthogenetic Variation in Lizards , etc. 121 and then cross-barred C. gularisand 0 .
of Northern Mexico and of the Sonoran sub-region .
But with no precise data for the natural conditions of these creatures , any further speculation would be unprofitable .
There is a continuous line of development leading from a completely striped form like C. deppeito another , C. in which the white stripes show an unmistakable tendency of breaking up into spots , until there are only spots left in C. g attains , and this phenomenon means in this case the gradual preponderance of dusky pigment .
On the other hand C. deppei , itself undoubtedly a descendant of a 6-striped form , has the tendency to increase the number of its stripes .
I connect these changes with the different features in the distribution of light which prevails in the various terrains on which these lizards live .
Notice the peculiar distribution of sunlight and shade prevailing on the ground where strong light falls through dense vegetation ; there are not many shadows , but plenty of shade , and this is interrupted by the familiar little sun images .
Contrast this with the sharp alternation of bright light and shadows under a tuft of grass on sandy soil in glaring sunshine , where one blade reflects white light while the shady side of its neighbour appears green or dark by contrast .
Again , observe the criss-cross shadows under a shrub scantily dressed with leaves , as typical of dry tropical countries .
My contention is that light influences the distribution of pigment in the skin .
The primitive pattern is one of longitudinal stripes , and at least some of these are intimately connected with the distribution of primitive blood-vessels , e.g. , the so-called epigastric veins .
How a few stripes can give rise to more is easily observed : the pigment in the intervening dark bands is not evenly distributed , but collects near the margins , the centre becomes lighter and ultimately the uniform band is transformed into two dark and one new light stripe .
This is a common phenomenon in lizards , C. deppei and Werner.* The production of a white band by confluence of white spots which have appeared in a dark field , is fundamentally the same process , of .
Ameivaand Werner fig. 58 .
Longitudinal stripes then , being referable to the preformed course of blood-vessels ; are natural , and we can imagine how they are emphasised or stimulated by the skin being continuously submitted to linear lights and shades .
The foundation for their direction was laid by the blood-vessels ; oblique markings are out of the question in bilateral creatures , but transverse markings are quite possible , even to be expected , but they cannot be produced directly out of longitudinal lines .
These have first to be broken up and the fragments have to be recombined .
This is * " Untersuchungen iiber die Zeichnung der Wirbelthiere , " ' Zool. Jahrb .
, Syst. ' YI .
( 1892 ) , p. 155\#151 ; 229 , Plates 6\#151 ; 10 ; in particular , Plate 9 , figs. 44 and 45 .
122 Dr. H. Gadow .
Evolution of the Colour-pattern [ May 22 , exactly the process which we observe in these lizards .
Why are the continuous lines broken , and why do secondary spots appear in the intermediate fields ?
Because the epigastric and cardinal veins are superseded by intercostal , i.e. , transverse vessels , and the linear disposal of pigment is incessantly interfered with by the shadows and lights of the living , therefore moving animal .
And it is infinitely more natural that these shadows and lights will fall cross-ways upon a cylindrical body than lengthwise .
It may be a mere coincidence , but it seems significant that longitudinal stripes are the prevalent pattern mostly in small species , and that to take one of our cases , C. loses these stripes when it passes beyond the size of C. sexlineatus or C. deppei .
Next comes the question why do any of these lizards retain their stripes if it is the natural course of onward evolution to lose them 1 The answer can only be that small-bodied lizards , living amongst sparse tufts of grass have their pattern less interfered with than larger species , that the linear marking is even enhanced by the distribution of light , and last , not least , that natural selection raises no objection to such a case of epistasis .
If these should afford protective advantages , then it will be all the more likely that communities of individuals , wherever they happen to live under the same conditions , will consolidate themselves into the same kind of race , and if there are also " structural " changes , then the systematist will condescend to call them sub-species , or even species .
This brings us to a consideration of the structural variations mentioned on pp. Ill and 112 .
These variations neither go together nor with the evolution of the colour-pattern .
One individual may have reached perfection in the matter of femoral scales , and in colouration , while it lags behind in other features , and vice versd , in kaleidoscopic , endless combinations and permutations .
For some of these modifications we can at least imagine their use .
For instance , the protective advantage of the plates , enlarged in size and in numbers , which encase those surfaces of the limbs which come into contact with obstructions like thorny undergrowth , sharp blades of grass , \amp ; c. The collar , and the rest of enlarged scales on the middle of the throat , may be in relation to the mode of pouncing upon their prey , and rushing through obstructions .
But , after all , the detail of these variations presents such minute differences that immediate advantage , or weeding out , is out of the question .
The fact remains that individuals of C. guttatus , possessed of only 20 femoral pores , grow up to propagate the species in exactly the same locality as those which can boast of 25 pores , and have 7 instead of 11 or 12 rows of femoral plates .
Where can be the disadvantage of the retention of a few minute granules between the larger collar-scales , as described in C. deppei ?
The same applies to the minute changes of the colour-pattern .
There are specimens of C. deppei with 1903 .
] andOrthogenetie Variation in etc. 8 , 9 , 10\#151 ; 11 stripes , all adult and breeding within a radius of a few hundred yards , living under the same conditions , exposed to the same enemies , namely , snakes and birds , which certainly cannot appreciate the difference of one stripe more or less .
Then there is the fact that some of the species pass , during their individual life , from 6 stripes to a livery with vanishing stripes , arid with pale spots preponderant , and lastly to a cross-barred pattern of a totally different colour .
Here we cannot apply the principle of the survival of the fittest , due to weeding out of those of the first year 's lizards which do not happen to be striped , and those of the second year which do not happen to become spotted , and those of older age which do not manage to assume the cross-barred pattern .
There are no young C. mexicanuswhich are not striped , but there exist in the same place sexually ripe specimens which present all the changes intermediate between Stages C and D , p. 116 .
The secret how they manage to survive is that they take care of themselves .
I can assert positively that the young and the adult of of G. mexicanus have different habits .
They frequent open ground , where the vegetation is scarce enough not to impede their running about .
A small lizard cannot run as fast as a large one which darts and bounds away like an arrow .
The young remain in the open and when disturbed , after running a few yards , hide in their holes , or under stones , or if the worst comes to the worst , they hide between a few blades of grass which , with its strongly contrasting lights and shades , conceals them sufficiently .
The larger specimens dart away at a furious pace , and make for the nearest hedge , shrub or bush , which may be 50 yards off ; there they abide , not squatting , but in a semi-erect position with their eyes upon the enemy , under the criss-cross shadows , on the reddish grey ground and dry leaves .
But we cannot imagine such a complicated concatenation which implies the coming to grief of all those specimens , which at a certain size or age do not happen to possess the requisite equipment .
Which are their enemies 1 Snakes and a few birds .
The turkey-buzzard and the " road-runner , " a ground-cuckoo , are entirely guided by the eye .
The snakes hunt by sight and scent , but they do not seize their prey unless it moves , and I am not prepared to attribute to them much appreciation of colour , which , besides , is of no avail during the night , the chief hunting time of those snakes whose prey lives on the ground .
Lizards have often been used as illustrations of sexual selection .
The colours of the males are certainly often striking and well displayed , but strong pigmentation is frequently relegated to the underparts , where they are not seen ; for instance , the blue or the black on the belly of C. cleppei .
It appears with the pairing season when metabolism is at its greatest activity , and , be it added , when it is also most upset 124 Dr. H. Gadow .
Evolution of the Colour-pattern [ May 22 , out of its normal course .
But this colour increases in extent and intensity for a long time after the pairing , when the females are big with ripe eggs .
Often the pigment is invisible externally , but it is nevertheless present in great quantities in the deeper strata of the skin , for instance , in C. mexicanus of both sexes .
Sometimes the whole peritoneum and other cavities are jet black .
The abundance of these waste products is stowed away where it cannot do any harm ; such a favourite place are the underparts of lizards , and it is quite conceivable that natural weeding out takes place wherever the heaping up of such surplus pigment on the visible parts would upset an existing pattern which has turned out extremely advantageous .
But this does not mean that selection has caused this pattern .
A feature well started , whether by internal or by external causes , is likely to proceed onwards with cumulative effect .
Whatever it may be that has first guided pigment to be arranged in longitudinal lines , will continue to do so until a linear marshalling of pigment in the skin becomes an integral , almost ineradicable habit in that kind of organism .
But size and proportions change with growth , blood-vessels yield to new systems of supply , new modes of distribution of light and colour follow with changes in the surroundings , and all these new conditions may make it not only difficult to keep up the old working of the organism but may even introduce new features , or improved methods .
Some lizards cannot keep their stripes unless they live in stripeexciting surroundings ; just as little can others keep pale spots in a desert .
When spots are indicated in a desert creature , the spots are dark on a light ground ; in the inhabitants of forests light spots on dark ground are the fashion .
An illustration of incidental advantage of features which are primarily due to constitutional conditions is the following .
In lizards with very minute granular scales , e.g. , C. deppei , the striation and colour of the back appear most vividly marked when the creature is seen from behind , but if looked at from the head tailwards , our eye more or less in level with the long axis , then the lizard assumes an almost stripeless and neutral tint .
This latter phenomenon may be useful to the lizard in the pursuit of its prey , just as much as the striation may be advantageous in saving its own skin whilst running away from , and dazzling its pursuer .
This phenomenon results from the fact that all scales , even the minutest , are more or less imbricating .
To appreciate these effects of colour and pattern , it is as well to mention , that we must contrive to look at these creatures from their own perspective , in their own level , not from a bird's-eye view .
For instance , when lying on the ground ourselves , we appreciate the concealing , or dazzling effect of the lateral spots which are such a common feature in male ground-lizards ; and we also observe that their more sombre-coloured females get on just as well without these " ornaFig .
1 .
Cnemidoyhorus depjpei .
Fig. 2 .
C. striatus .
Fig. 3 .
C. guttatus .
be .
Pn .
Gadow .
Boy .
Soc. Pm.',72 , PL 5 .
1903 .
] and Orthogenetic Variation in etc. ments " as which we rashly interpret these and similar distributions of colour .
What we see as the individually variable detail is the outcome of the yielding of the organisms to physical circumstances ; and the tendency to reproduce what its ancestors have become possessed of through these same stimuli , enhances , accumulates , quickens the same effect .
Some lag behind , or never attain , what for the present may be the highest stage .
Others are born ready , and during their life proceed further along the well-established lines and step even beyond the normal stage .
That this in time will be superseded is only a question of time .
This kind of variation , when the various degrees of instances can be arranged in continuous lines which themselves coincide with a morphological sequence , I have termed orthogenetic .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES .
Plate 3 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Cnemidopkonis deppei , not .
size .
Three first specimens on the left with 9 white stripes ; the fourth and fifth with 10 ; the sixth and seventh with 11 ; the last on the right with 8 stripes .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; C. striatus , J not .
size .
The first specimen on the left illustrates stage A ; the second stage D , the third stage B , the rest stage C. Plate 4 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; C. guttatus , not .
size .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; C. mexicanus , not .
size .
Youngest specimen on the left , oldest on the right side .
Plate 5 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; C. bocourti , | not .
size .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Ameivaundulata , f not .
size Three specimens on the left are females , the fourth is an immature , the others are adult males .

