1894 .
] Influence of certain Agents on the Tubercle-Bacillus .
51 paper .
The fall load capacity of the transformer was about 6,000 watts .
The range of frequency ( including the autographic recorder , the wattmeter and the Joubert 's instantaneous contact method experiments ) was about from 3 per minute to 8,000 per minute .
The results indicated that , throughout this range , there is no variation in the dissipation of energy per cycle when the inductions are equal .
Data deduced from these experiments as to the magnetic qualities of the iron used in the different transformers are given in the paper .
V. " On the Influence of certain Natural Agents on the Virulence of the Tubercle-Bacillus .
" By Arthur Ransom , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Sheridan Delepine .
Received May 1 , 1894 .
Three years ago Dr. Ransom communicated to the Society the results of some experiments , carried out in concert with Professor Dreschfeld , of Owens College , " On certain conditions that modify the virulence of the bacillus of tubercle .
" The tendency of these researches was to prove " that fresh air and light , and a dry and sandy sub-soil , have a distinct influence in arresting the virulence of the tubercle-bacillus ; that darkness somewhat interferes with this disinfectant action ; but that mere exposure to light , in otherwise bad sanitary conditions , does not destroy the virus .
" The following table gives the results of similar experiments by ourselves .
Experi- meant No. 3 .
i. 7 .
2 .
8 .
3 .
11 .
4 .
12 .
5 .
58 .
6 .
59 .
7 .
Table I. Rabbit inoculated in peritoneum with fresh sputum .
Killed 55 days after .
Showed well-marked tuberculosis .
Rabbit .
Sputum exposed to light and air 45 days in June and July .
Showed no tuberculosis after 86 days .
Rabbit .
Sputum exposed in air-shaft in dusk at the same time .
Showed slight tuberculosis after 86 days .
G-uinea-pig .
The same sputum exposed at the same time , in air and light , inoculated under the skin .
Showed no distinct tubercle in 80 days .
Guinea-pig .
Same methods , only in dusk .
Showed advanced tuberculosis in 80 days .
Guinea-pig .
Another sputum exposed in April for 16 days to little or no air , in darkness .
Gave well-marked tubercle after 42 days .
Guinea-pig .
Ditto , ditto .
E 2 52 Dr. A. Ransom and Mr. S. Delepine .
On [ May 24 , We have now carried the enquiry a little further , and , amongst other objects , have endeavoured to determine how short a period of exposure to air and light would suffice to destroy the poisonous action of the microbe .
We selected guinea-pigs as the most susceptible animals to test this question .
In the first instance pure cultivations of the bacillus were prepared , and were found to be active by frequent inoculations .
Small portions of this material were 'spread in a thin layer , upon pieces of sterilized paper .
They were arranged in circles of about 2 mm. in diameter , so as to give every opportunity for the action of the elements .
They were then exposed in a glass-room , with free access to air and light , \#171 ; .e .
, fclose to open windows , for diminishing periods of time , viz. , 14 , 10 , 6 , 4 , and 2 days respectively .
Contemporaneous daily records were kept of temperature , maximum and minimum , and of the amount of sunshine taken through the glass roof , by means of one of Kegretti and Zambra 's sunshine recorders .
The following table ( Table II ) gives the results of the meteorological observations , but as will be seen presently , only those for the first few days are of importance .
Ko result from the other papers ; the control experiments showing that the bacilli used after this date had lost their virulence .
Even the results of Experiments 97 and 98 are doubtful on that account , but Experiment 85 was made with a very virulent specimen , as was proved by the inoculation of two other guinea-pigs , with paper infected with the same quantity of the same cultivation , and kept the same length of time , but not exposed to sunlight .
In both these cases advanced tuberculosis was produced in 44 days .
It may be noted that only one of these experiments can be entirely relied upon , and that in this case , after 4 days ' exposure to air and 12| hours of sunshine , there was no result from the inoculation .
These observations , though not in any way conclusive , are in accord with those of Professor Koch , * and they encouraged us to believe that even short exposures of the tubercle-bacillus , even in sputum , to air and light , might render it innocuous .
In the next series of observations , it was determined to allow # Koch , ' Verhandlungen des Internationalen Medicinisclien Congresses ' ( Berlin , 4th to 9th August , 1890 ) , vol. 1 , p. 35 .
Koch says that for some years it has become known that light could kill bacteria .
He alludes , no doubt , to the experiments of Downes and Blunt , Arloing , Roux , and others .
Marshall Ward 's experiments with the Bacillus Anthracis are still more recent .
Koch had been able to confirm this with regard to the tubercle-bacillus , of which cultivations exposed to sunlight might be killed in a space of time varying from a few minutes to some hours .
When exposed to diffuse daylight in a room they were killed in from five to seven days .
Table II .
Date .
July 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 A-ug .
1 I 2 O 96 50 103 50 0 95 50 o 95 50 O 96 60 O 72 53 O 70 52 100 48 O 98 56 O 93 54 93 52 110 50 105 55 107 55 Temperature s [ Minimum Hours of sunshine - - . . .
o 2 7 i 1 hour weak shine 2i 3i 3i 1 H li 1 4| 1 2^ H If Total sunshine \#166 ; Results ... ... . . . .
12i 5f Exp. 85.\#151 ; 4 days exposed .
No tuberculosis in 43 days .
1 JExp .
98 .
\#151 ; 2 days exposure .
Local swelling disappeared in 10 days .
No result in 78 days .
Exp. 97.\#151 ; Exposed 6 days .
No result in 150 days .
o\#187 ; 00 1894 .
] Influence of certain Agents on the Tubercle-Bacillus .
54 Dr. A. Ransom and Mr. S. Delepine .
On [ May 24 .
tuberculous sputum to dry ( a ) in air and light , ( 6 ) in air and darkness , ( c ) in a close cupboard .
Fresh sputum , rich in bacilli , was obtained and exposed in watch glasses .
Specimen ( a ) was dry in four days ; specimen ( 6 ) in eight days ; and specimen ( c ) in 19 days .
Specimens ( a ) and ( b)were closed up as soon as they were dry and kept until specimen ( c ) was ready , and then portions of the sputum were scraped off the glasses and inoculated into guinea-pigs directly after scraping .
Table III gives the results .
No. 117 .
118 .
119 .
120 .
126 .
Table III .
1 .
) [ Sputum ( a ) inoculated subcutaneously into two guinea-pigs .
2.1 ( .killed 64 days afterwards , gave well-marked tuberculosis .
3 .
| ( Sputum ( b ) , similarly used , showed no results 4 .
J153 days after .
5 .
Sputum 0 ) gave well-marked tuberculosis 50 days afterwards .
The results of these experiments are somewhat anomalous .
The sputum was in rather thick masses and thus dried slowly , and would with difficulty be affected by the natural agents to which they were exposed .
This fact would probably account for the continued virulence of sputa of 1 and 2 , but the immunity from sputa 3 and 4 , after eight days exposure to a current of air in darkness , is hardly likely to be due to this exposure ; we can , therefore , draw no decided conclusion from this series of experiments .
In the fourth series of observations , the sputum was spread upon paper , and was thus more rapidly dried at the ordinary temperatures , about 24 hours sufficing .
It was then in most cases scraped and thus partly converted into " tuberculous dust " before being exposed to the same conditions as before .
In this way it might be expected to be more readily affected by the elements .
An attempt was made to measure the amount of air as well as light , an anemometer and a sunshine-recorder being placed near the sputum exposed at the open window .
Only a rough guess could thus be made as to the quantity of air passing over the sputum , however , for the papers had to be loosely covered with thin gauze to prevent the " dust " from being carried away by the wind , and the anemometer recorded currents in both directions .
Three sets of experiments were made .
1 .
Papers were placed , to be used for control experiments , in the dark , close cupboard .
2 .
Papers were placed in the air-shaft of a draught-closet in dim light , pure air only passing through it .
1894 .
] Influence of certain Agents the 1 ubevcle-Bacil lus .
55 3 .
Papers were exposed to air and light for three days , February 20 , 21 , and 22 .
The rate of air current was about 1,000 ft. per hour , and the sunshine recorded was one hour .
Others were exposed for a longer period .
The amount of tuberculous dust was so small that portions of the paper were inserted together with it , under the skin .
Table IV .
First Set of Experiments .
Sputum kept only one day in a closed , dark cupboard , after drying on paper , produced well-marked tuberculosis in 31 days .
Sputum kept under the same conditions , but exposed to a little air for 35 days , produced distinct local tuberculosis in 23 days .
Idem .
Second Set of Experiments .
Sputum kept in the draught closet for three days in a current of air ( about 1,000 cubic feet per hour ) in darkness , at the ordinary temperature , gave well-marked tuberculosis in 32 days .
Sputum under exactly the same conditions gave well-marked tuberculosis in 24 days .
Third Set of Experiments .
Sputum exposed to light for three days , during which there was one hour of sunshine .
Yentilation good .
Temperature , maximum 50 ' and minimum 38 ' F. No tuberculosis after 46 days .
Sputum under the same conditions as the last , except that it had not been reduced to dust , gave the same negative results after 50 days .
Sputum exposed to light for seven days ; 15 hours of sunshine ; brisk ventilation .
Temperature , maximum 88 ' , minimum 29 ' F. No tuberculosis after 22 days .
Sputum exposed to light for two days ( after being kept dry for four weeks ) ; short exposure to sunshine ( not many hours ) ; ventilation slight .
Temperature , maximum 60 ' , minimum 22 ' .
No tuberculosis after 22 days .
It will be noted that in all the specimens exposed in the dark , tuberculosis was the result , but it must be observed , that in the case of those exposed in the draught-closet , only three days were allowed to pass before they were removed from the influence of the air-current .
On the other hand , all the specimens exposed to both air and light , whether for two , three , or seven days , were found to have entirely lost their power for evil .
The specimen exposed for two days only , had , however , been kept for four weeks before being exposed to these influences , and it had thus lost a portion of its virulence .
These researches have an important bearing upon the question of the limits of the infectiveness of tubercle .
No. 151 .
1 .
191 .
2 .
192 .
3 .
160 .
1 .
170 .
2 .
156 .
1 .
157 .
2 .
189 .
3 .
190 .
4 .
\#171 ; )(\gt ; Mi .
J. AV .
Swan .
On some Voltaic Combinations [ May 24 , It has long been known that the disease is most common in the dirty , ill-drained , ill-ventilated dwellings of the poor , and , even in records intended to prove the contagiousness of phthisis , there are few , if any , of transmission of the disease in clean , well-lighted , well-ventilated houses or hospitals , even those for consumption .
Long before Koch 's discoveries , and before the disinfection of sputum was practised as it is now , the conveyance of the disease , under these conditions , was recognised by many to be one of the rarest events .
If the results that we have obtained with sputum are confirmed by others , as we trust they will be , they will afford some explanation of these facts .
So far as they extend at present , they show ( 1 ) that finely divided tuberculous matter , such as pure cultures of the bacillus , or " tuberculous dust , " in daylight , and in free currents of air , is rapidly deprived of virulence , ( 2 ) that even in the dark , although the action is retarded , fresh air has still some disinfecting influence , and ( 3 ) that in the absence of air , or in confined air , the bacillus retains its power for long periods of time.* VI .
" On some Voltaic Combinations with a Fused Electrolyte and a Gaseous Depolariser .
" By J. AV .
Swan , M.A. Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received February 28 , 1894 .
It is well known that fused salts behave in many respects like electrolytes in solution , and that voltaic combinations analogous to well-known voltaic cells may be formed with fused electrolytes .
The experiments of Brownf have recently illustrated this subject in relation to the Daniell type of cell .
For various reasons it appeared to the writer desirable to ascertain the behaviour of a cell with fused electrolyte and a gaseous depolariser , and corresponding in this last particular to the Upward cell .
The following is chiefly a record of some of the experiments made in connection with this research .
A cell of this kind may be looked at from a theoretical point of view as follows :\#151 ; A rod of metal , M ( fig. 1 ) , is immersed in a fused chloride of the same metal , MCI , and a chemically inactive conductor , C , is also immersed in the fused salt ; when M and C are connected with an electrostatic volt-meter , the metallic chloride is immediately * A portion of the expenses of this research has been defrayed by a grant from the British Medical Association .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Froc .
, ' vol. 52 , pp. 75\#151 ; 91 .

