The Bakerian Lecture for 1832 , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity ?
Second Series , " by Michael Faraday , Esq. F.R.S. was read .
The success of the author in exhibiting the evolution of electricity by induction from ordinary magnets , led him to conclude that similar effects might be obtained from the magnetism of the earth , and even to an extent that might render it available in the construction of new electrical machines .
These expectations have been fully realized ; and the researches which establish the influence of terrestrial induction in giving rise to electrical currents , form the subject of this second paper .
Whenever a hollow helix , the terminal wires of which were connected with those of a galvanometer , and which enclosed a cylinder of soft iron , was held with its axis in the line of the magnetic dip , and suddenly inverted , the evolution of electric currents was immediately rendered sensible by the deflection of the needle of the gal ?
vanometer ; a deflection in the contrary direction being produced the moment the helix was again inverted , so as to recover its first 9 &lt; &gt; position .
The same effect resulted from the simple introduction of the iron cylinder into , or its removal out of , the helix ; evidently in consequence of the magnetism acquired by position with relation to the magnetic poles of the earth .
When a cylindric magnet was substitutedforthesoftiron , the same phenomenon , obviously ascribable to terrestrial induction , were in either case observed .
Similar but more feeble indications of the same effect were obtained by inverting the helix alone , without its association with any ferruginous body whatever .
The influence of terrestrial magnetism in eliciting electricity from revolving metallic bodies was next made the subject of investigation .
A copper plate was made to rotate in a horizontal plane , one of the wires of the galvanometer being brought into contact with its axis , and the other attached to a leaden conductor pressing against the amalgamated edge of the plate .
The needle of the galvanometer was immediately deflected , either to the east or west , according to the direction of the rotation ; and by successively changing this direction , and accommodating it to the oscillations of the needle , the are of its vibrations was soon made to extend to 50 ?
or 60 ? .
When the plane of rotation passed through the line of dip , the galvanometer was not affected .
A copper plate , revolving in a plane perpendicular to the line of dip , thus composes a new electrical machine , differing from the common plate machine in the circum ?
stance of the material of which it is formed being the most perfect conductor , while in the latter it is the most perfect non-conductor .
Insulation , which is essentially required in the latter , is fatal to the erhcacy of the former .
The quantity of electricity produced by the metallic machine does not appear to be interior to that evolved by the glass machine , although differing much in its intensity .
On employing copper wires of greater thickness , more powerful effects were obtained .
The author expects that the effects may be still further increased by certain combinations of superposed plates , alternately revolving in opposite directions .
The author proceeds to show by experiment the manner in which terrestrial magneto-electric induction produces phenomenon similar to those observed by Messrs. Barlow and Christie when ferruginous bodies are in rapid rotation , and which have been ascribed to a change in the ordinary disposition of the magnetism of the ball .
Ile found that the rotation of a copper ball on an axis either hori ?
zontal or otherwise inclined to the line of dip , gave rise to a circu ?
lation of electric currents in a plane perpendicular to that of revo ?
lution , and in exact conformity with the law already deduced by the author in the first part of this paper .
This law is illustrated in a very simple manner by the following experiment . ?
A copper wire , eight feet long , had its two ends fastened , each respectively to the ends of the wires of the galvanometer , so as to form with them one uninterrupted circuit .
Upon moving the copper wire to and fro over the galvanometer , whilst the lower part remained steady , the magnetic needle was immediately deflected , in a direction regulated hy the relative position of the wire and the direction of its motion .
It is a further consequence of this law , that the rotation of the globe of the earth itself must tend to induce electric currents in its own mass , passing in each hemisphere from the equatorial to the polar regions ?
so that if one set of conductors could be applied at the equator , and another at the poles , negative electricity would be collected by the former , and positive electricity by the latter .
The electricity of metalliferous veins in the mines of Cornwall ( of which an account has been given by Mr. Fox , in a paper lately published in the Philosophical Transactions , ) does not appear , however , to be referrible to magneto-electric induction .
It may be a question whether the phenomenon of the Aurora Borealis and Australis may not arise from the discharge of this induced electricity consequent on the earth 's rotation .
As it appeared probable that there exists some natural difference in the intensity of these electric currents induced by magnetism in different conducting bodies , the author endeavoured to determine what effects might arise from this difference in the case of iron and copper .
For this purpose he joined together the ends of wires of each of these metals , each 120 feet in length , extended in the direc ?
tion of the magnetic meridian .
The copper wire was then divided in the middle and examined by a delicate galvanometer , but no evidence of any electrical current was obtained .
The same negative result attended trials with wires of these metals , twisted together , and passed between the poles of a powerful magnetic battery .
Similar experiments tried with other metals , and also with a circuit composed of copper and sulphuric acid , afforded in like manner no indications of electric currents .
Hence it appears that when metals or other conductors of different kinds are equally subjected to magneto-electric induction , they exhibit equal powers with respect to the currents induced in them .
By another experiment the author shows that these effects of magneto-electric induction are not owing to the motion of the magnet and conductor relatively to each other , but that they take place to an equal degree when the two are united so as to revolve together , and when , consequently , they are relatively at rest .
Electric currents are produced also in the substance of the magnet itself , simply by revolution on its own axis while floating on mercury , and the circuit completed by wires making a communication between the mercury and the axis of the magnet .
The author has comprised the phenomenon here related in the following general formula .
Referring to the pole of the magnet as the centre of action , if all the parts of the metallic conductor move in the same direction and with the same angular velocity , no electric currents are produced : but if one part cut the magnetic curves while another part is stationary , or if the motion of the whole be in one direction , but its angular velocity relatively to the pole of the magnet be different , then , in either case , currents will be produced ; the maximum effect taking place when different parts move in different directions across the magnetic curves .

