158 Mr. J. T. Bottomley .
on the [ Feb. 12 , February 12 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Note on the Condensation of Gases at the Surface of Glass .
" ( Preliminary .
) By J. T. Bottomley , M.A. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Professor Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received January 27 , 1885 .
It is well known to those who have endeavoured to obtain , in glass vessels , the very perfect vacuums first sought after and obtained by Crookes , and producible by the mercurial pumps , that the operation is much assisted by heating the glass vessels to be exhausted , and even the tubes of the pump , to a high temperature .
The difficulty of removing the film of air and moisture adhering to glass tubes is also well known to makers of barometers and thermometers .
When the Sprengel pump is used for producing a vacuum , and when a tolerably good vacuum has been produced , so that the baror metric gauge indicates a presence of one millimetre or half a millimetre of mercury , the drops of mercury falling in the tube of the Sprengel give rise to a loud metallic hammering sound ; and they fall with such unbroken sharpness that those who use this form of pump are often troubled by the " fall-tubes " splitting longitudinally through a length of several inches-\#151 ; a phenomenon in itself very remarkable , considering the strength of the tubes and the smallness of the mercurial drops .
If , while this hammering is going on , the glass vessel which is being exhausted and the leading tubes of the Sprengel pump be heated by passing the flame of a spirit-lamp or of a Bunsen burner over them , the hammering immediately ceases , and on looking closely at the fall-tubes it is seen that they are carrying down air which the heat has .liberated from the glass walls- of the apparatus .
The ordinary barometer gauge is scarcely sensitive enough to show an increase of pressure , but the McLeod gauge readily shows it .
There i3 another well known phenomenon connected with the condensation of gases and vapours on the surface of glass , viz. , the condensation of a watery film over the glass of electric apparatus , in virtue of which , at temperatures considerably above the dew point , 1885 .
] Condensation of Gases at the Surface of Glass .
the glass supports are not insulators of electricity .
This film of moisture is removed by exposing the glass stems to heat , or to an artificially dried atmosphere .
Some years ago , at the wish of Sir William Thomson , I endeavoured to weigh this film of moisture , but was abso-lutely unsuccessful .
The film must be of extreme tenuity .
Professor i Quincke has , however , made important researches on the " distance 1 of capillary action , " and on some of the properties of these very thin filirfS .
His results are given in two papers , " Poggendorff 's Annalen , " 108 , p. 326 , 1859 ; and " Wiedemann 's Annalen , " vol. ii , 1877 , p. 145 .
He finds their thickness to be comparable with 5 X 10-5 cm .
With the view of measuring the quantity of gas condensed upon a given surface of glass , I caused to be prepared in August last a large quantity of fine glass thread .
Some of this was of flint glass rod or cane , which was softened in the blowpipe flame , and drawn out on to a wheel .
The remainder was of flint glass tubes , drawn out in a similar way .
The spun glass was carefully parcelled up in paper , and put aside till I should be ready to use it .
On January 3rd I put a quantity of the non-tubular glass fibre into a glass tube 2 cm .
in diameter and 12 cm .
long , and attached it by a glass sealing to a five-fall Gimingham Sprengel pump .
The pump , which was in excellent order , was then worked rapidly till I had produced a very good vacuum , which by the McLeod gauge gave me an indication of 0'3 M* pressure .
The pump was then left for about an hour , and at the end of that time , passing one more bottle full of mercury through the pump , I ascertained that the vacuum had not sensibly deteriorated , the McLeod gauge giving identically the same reading as before .
This exhaustion was performed without the application of any unusual heat to the tube containing the glass fibres .
The temperature of the room was about 56 ' F. I now raised the mercury to the upper level , and allowed it to flow through the pump , and the drops fell with the well-known loud hammering noise .
While this was going on I applied a Bunsen burner to the tube containing the spun glass .
In a few seconds the hammering of the mercury ceased , and on applying the test of the McLeod gauge the pressure within the pump was found to have risen largely .
1 did not , however , obtain a measurement with the gauge corresponding to the maximum pressure of the gas driven off , or to any particular state .
I now proceeded to pump out all the gas I could , working the pump , and heating the tube containing the glass fibres strongly .
The heating was carried on from time to time till the tube , which was of German glass , showed signs of softening and of falling in ; and the glass fibres were likewise , some of them , slightly softened and bent .
The pump was worked for over an hour , the heating being applied , and the gas , which was easily seen being carried down , was collected * 1 M standing for one-millionth , of one atmo .
160 Condensation of Gases at the Surface of Glass .
[ Feb. 12 in a tube made for the purpose , which fitted on over the up-turned ends of the five fall-tubes .
At the end of this time the vacuum was again fairly good , though not so good as it was before the heating commenced .
The McLeod gauge indicated 1*2 M. It was seen that very little more air was being carried down , and I did not wish to push the vacuum farther than , or quite so far as , the vacuum which had been obtained before the liberation by heat of the condensed gas .
The collecting tube was now removed , and the gas obtained was measured and analysed , so far as it was possible to analyse a quantity so small .
The total amount of gas collected was calculated to be , at 15 ' C. and a pressure of 760 mm. , 0'45 of a cubic centimetre .
To this a small quantity of strong solution of caustic potash was added , and time was given for absorption .
A small quantity of pyrogallic acid was next added , and the further absorption observed .
The residue was so small that I could do nothing farther .
The result of the analysis showed 8*24 per cent , of the whole to be carbonic acid gas ( absorbable by caustic potash ) .
Of what remained 24*8 per cent , was oxygen ( absorbable by pyrogallic acid and caustic potash mixed ) .
The residue 75*2 per cent , was , I presume , mainly if not wholly nitrogen .
I ought to remark that my pump was furnished , as is usual , with the phosphoric acid drying tube .
The gas , therefore , which I collected was perfectly dry , and I have no way at present of ascertaining how much moisture adheres to the spun glass .
In stating the results of the analysis I have made no correction for moisture introduced with the potash solution .
In order to make an estimate of the amount of surface exposed by the spun glass , I measured , with a screw micrometer gauge , the diameters of 200 of the fine glass fibres taken at random .
I found them , as I expected from the care with which they had been prepared , fairly uniform , and the average diameter was 7*06 hundredths of a millimetre .
Weighing also the 200 , and then the whole quantity , I found the whole number of the fibres to be 6370 .
The average length was 10*25 cm .
The surface was thus 1448 sq .
cm .
, or equal to that of a square 38 cm .
in the edge .
I am preparing for further experiments on this subject , and hope soon to be able to add to it observations on the amount and on the electric conductivity of the film of moisture condensed upon the surface of glass .
Additional Note .
Received February 12 .
Since the writing of my former communication on this subject , I have made some further experiments on it , and I beg leave to give an account of the results of one of these experiments .
1885 .
] Underground Tem , fyc .
Having filled a fresh , tube with fresh spun glass , I carefully exhausted with the Sprengel pump on January 24th , and the exhaustion was kept up till February 5th , that is , for twelve days .
During this time I frequently tested with the McLeod gauge .
A very i slight increase of pressure was found during that interval ; but it was iso slight that I am not able to say that it was greater than that \lt ; which is observed at all times , even with the Sprengel pump in excellent order , when a vacuum is maintained for several days .
On February 5th , I passed three or four bottlesful of mercury through the pump , and had a vacuum of about 0*5 M as shown by the McLeod gauge .
I then applied heat , and had instantly an abundance of gas given off from the spun glass .
This was collected as before , and analysed .
The number of glass fibres was 15,500 , giving an estimated surface area of 3527 sq .
centims. The amount of gas given off was 0'41 c.c. ; which is considerably less in proportion than in my first experiment .
Of this gas it was found that 78'6 per cent , was carbonic acid gas ( absorbable by caustic potash ) .
Of the remainder 10'5 per cent , was oxygen ( absorbed by pyrogallic acid and potash ) ; while 89'5 per cent , was left unabsorbed ; and may be supposed to be mainly nitrogen .
The very large proportion of carbonic acid gas is remarkable , and it is difficult to account for , unless we may suppose that it was taken up by the glass in large quantity during the operations of drawing out the glass into fibres , and enclosing it in the containing tube\#151 ; operations during which there was , in these preliminary experiments , an abundant supply from the blowpipe flames .
II .
" On Underground Temperatures , with Observations on the Conductivity of Rocks , on the Thermal Effects of Saturation and Imbibition , and on a special Source of Heat in Mountain Ranges .
" By Joseph Prestwich , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received January 24 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The author remarks on the difference of opinion between physicists and geologists respecting the probable thickness of the outer crust of the earth\#151 ; the former , on the strength of its great rigidity and the absence of tides , contending for a maximum thickness and comparative solidity of the whole mass ; while the latter , in general , on the evidence of volcanic action , the crumpling and folding of the strata in mountain ranges , its general flexibility down to the most

