A Case of the Human Foetus found in the Ovarium , of the Size it usually acquires at the End of the Fourth Month .
By A. B. Granville , M.D. F.R.S. In a Letter addressed to Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read Jainuary 13 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 101 .
] T'he body , of which the dissection is described in this paper , exhibited a considerable tumour , placed immediately above the region of the pubis .
Upon opening the abdomen , a quantity of fluid resembling blood was found in its cavity , and a tumour , four times the size of a hen 's egg , obstructed the view of the internal parts of generation , resting upon the left portion of the anterior surface of the uterus ; a blood-vessel , which proved to be a branch of the left spermatic artery , and of the size of a large crow-quill , penetrated the dense portion of this tumour , and a smaller vessel communicated with the spermatic vein .
The inferior portion of the tumour presented diaphanous membranes , through which was seen a foetus of about four months ' growth .
The fact of an extra-uterine conception being thus made out , the author proceeded to examine the connection of the tumour with the neighbouring parts , and the condition of the uterus ; whence it appears that the tumour was seated in the left ovarium , which had burst in three places , so as to suffer the membranous sac containing the foetus to protrude into the cavity of the abdomen ; and that by the growth of the fretus that part of the covering of the ovarium was ultimately lacerated , which involved the placenta by which the adhesions.of the latter were torn , producing the sudden and fatal haemorrhage which killed the patient and filled the abdomen with blood .
The uterus had acquired considerable development during the period of ovario-gestation ; the right ovary was healthy , as also its Fallopian tube .
The left Fallopian tube was sound and loose , and its fimbriated extremity had no connexion with the neighbouring tumour .
Many other circumstances relating to the history of this case , and to the anatomical structure exhibited by the disputed parts , are contained in an explanation of Mr. Bauer 's drawings , which illustrate and accompany the paper .

