The Antagonistic Action of Calcium upon the Inhibitory Effect of Magnesium .
By S. J. Meltzer and John Aver .
( Communicated by Professor E. H. Starling , F.R.S. Received March 10 , \#151 ; Read April 2 , 1908 .
) ( From the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research .
) Calcium and magnesium are chemically closely related elements .
They are also close companions in the tissues of the animal body .
It is the prevailing view that the physiological effects of both elements are similar in character .
Many physiologists are at present of the opinion that calcium as well as magnesium exerts an inhibitory influence in the functions of the animal body .
Loeb published , in 1899 , his observations of the inhibitory action of calcium upon the twitchings of the frog muscles brought on by solutions of sodium chloride.* It was then assumed by Loeb that all the members of the group of alkali earths possess inhibitory properties , including , at first , even barium .
In the numerous subsequent papers by Loeb and his pupils , the discussion turned , however , essentially around the inhibitory effect of calcium .
As to magnesium , we have within the last few years published several studies in support of the hypothesis that magnesium salts favour inhibitory processes .
The first fact which gave rise to that hypothesis was demonstrated in 1899 to the American Physiological Society , when an intracerebral injection of a few drops of a solution of magnesium sulphate caused a state of paralysis in a rabbit , while the injection of other solutions brought on convulsions .
In a series of recent studies which we have carried out upon the relations of the effects of calcium to magnesium , many facts came to light which demonstrate unmistakably that calcium is the most available agent to neutralise inhibitory effects of magnesium .
We shall not enter here upon details ; we wish only to report the following striking and instructive experiment .
* ( Note by E. H. Starling.\#151 ; The inhibitory action of calcium salts on the twitching brought on by sodium chloride solutions was observed by Dr. Ringer , F.R.S. , many years before Loeb , and is fully described by him in a paper in the 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 7 , p. 291 , 1886 .
In reference to the subject of the present communication , it is interesting to note that Ringer observed a similar antagonism between barium and calcium ( vide 'Practitioner , ' vol. 31 , p. 81 , 1897 ) .
) Action of Calcium upon the Inhibitory Effect of Magnesium .
261 By subcutaneous injections of a magnesium salt ( for instance , Epsom salt\#151 ; about 7 c.c. of a 25-per-cent , solution per kilogramme ) rabbits are brought to a profound state of anaesthesia and paralysis .
The slow and shallow respirations indicate the approaching danger .
Now 6 or 8 c.c. of an M/ 6 or an M/ 8 solution of a calcium salt are given through the ear vein .
Within a few seconds the respiration becomes quicker and deeper , and within one minute the animal turns over , sits up , and appears normal .
Here calcium not only did not add an inhibitory effect , but completely neutralised the profound inhibitory effect of magnesium .
The companionship of calcium and magnesium within the body means , at least in many instances , not a concerted action of similar effects , but rather a resultant effect of antagonistic actions .
We may add that the experiment calls to mind similar relations existing in plant physiology ; the retardation of growth on account of the presence of too much magnesium in the soil is promptly corrected by the addition of a calcium salt ; the process is termed " liming .
" In animals , therefore , as well as in plants , calcium is antagonistic to magnesium .

