]\gt ; III .
" " Abel 's Theorem and Abelian Functions By A. R. FORSYTH , , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Professor of Mathematics in University College , Liverpool .
Communicated by Professor CAYLEY , F.R.S. Received October 28 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
The present paper is divided into two sections .
The objeot of Section I is to obtain an expression for an integral more general than , but intimately connected with , that occurring in Abel 's theorem .
The latter , as ennnciated by Mr. Row in his memoir in the Phil. Trans. , 1881 , is as follows:\mdash ; If be a rational algebraical equation between and , then an expression can always be found for where is a nction of only , is a rational algebraical integral function of and , and the uppel .
limits of the series of integrals are the roots of the eliminant with regard to / 7 of and , function .
In the case here considered two equations of the degrees and respectively between three variables are given ( these aIone being treated , as subsequent generalization to the case of equations between dependent variables and one independent is obvious ) ; and an expression is obtained for the upper limits of the integrals being given by the roots of the equation arrived at ?
the elimination of and between an arbitrary equat1on 289 On Abel 's Theorem and Abelian Functions .
, what is the same thing , by the -ordinates of the points of tersection of the three surfaces represented by Some preliminary considerations ( in connexion with SS 92 .
of 's Higher Algebra are adduced in reference to the mlnan s the three equations in each of the variables ; thus if X be the equa'Ji0n in obtained by eliminating and , it is expressed in the form which afterwards proves useful .
Then the ordinary case referred to ) of Abel 's theorem is treated on the lines laid down 111 !
Clebsch and Gordan 's treatise on the Abelian functions ; and undel the guidance of this the more general form is ated with the resuIt being the symbol introduced by Boole .
The remainder of the section is occupied with the discussion of )examples of this theorem .
In Example I , by the assumption of suitable forms for , it is proved that whereE is the second elliptic and are given by and stand for respectively .
The col.responding expression for the third elliptic integral is stated .
In Example II an expression is obtained for .
Section II the addition theorem for the functions presented Weierstrass 's memoir in Crelle , .
lii ( 1856 ) , p. 285 , is ated .
It may be pointed out that the fundamental equations in the theol.y occur as natural examples of the more general form of Abel 's proved in Section I ; but the equations so obtained are identical with those used by Weierstrass , and this case , therefore , does not belong distinctively to the form of Abel 's theorem connected with the curve of double curvature .
On this account the simpler form is used on the two occasions ( in SS 14 , 19 ) when required .
The theory is worked out at considerable length , and the necessaly . . . . . .
where . . .
the equation giving the roots is The roots are denoted by , . . .
, , . .
, , . .
; and there are obviously relations between them .
Writing , and and corresponding functions of , it is shown that Writing , with Weierstrass , . .
, , , then of the functions of bhe theory are given by for values 1 , 2 , . . . .
, of .
Then if it is proved that If are respectively the same functions of the 's and 's as is of the , then the theorem ' is obtained in S 21 , a verification being furnished by expansion in .
' Note on the Recent and Coming Total Solar Eclipses By J. NORMAN LOCKYER , F.R.S. Received November 17 , 1882 .
The following note has been drawn up in anticipation of the detailed accounts of the work done by me in Egypt on the eclipsed sun of 1882 , , which I am preparing to lay before the Royal Society , because as the next total eclipse occurs next May , there is no time be lost if attempt is to be made secure observations , amd I am of opinion that such observations are most important .
I have prefaced the statement of the work done by a reference to conqiderations which led me to undertake it , and I have added a jscheme of observations which , in the present state of our knowledge is , I think , most likely to produce results of value .
1 .
In order to undel.stand the recent change of front in solar research which has followed the introduction of the view of the possible dissociation elementary bodies at solar temperatures , and suggested the later laboratory , and especially the later eclipse observations with which we are now chiefly concerned , we must first consider what facts we may expect om the two hypotheses .
In this way we can see which hypothesis fits the facts best , and whether there are any inquiries possible during eclipses of a to throw lig ht on the question .
2 .
On the old hypothesis the tion of the solar atmosphere was imaged as follows : \mdash ; ( 1 .
) We have rial elements in the sum 's atmosphere .
( 2 .
) They thin out iu the order of vapour density , all being represented in the lower strata , since the solar atmosphere at the lower levels is incompetent to them .
( 3 .
) In the lower strata we have especially those of higher atom weight , all together forming a so-called " " reversing layer\ldquo ; by which chiefly the Fraumhofer spectrum is produced .
3 .
The new hypothesis necessitates a radical change the above views .
According to it the three maim statements made in paragraph 2 require to be changed as follows:\mdash ;

