On the Action of Anaesthetics on Protoplasm .
observations on the Action of Anaesthetics on Vegetable and Animal Protoplasm .
" By J. B. Farmer , M.A. , and A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 9 , \#151 ; Read May 5 , 1898 .
The object in view was to observe simultaneously and compara-ely the effects of certain anesthetics ( carbon dioxide , ether , and loroform ) upon vegetable and upon animal protoplasm .
Two gas chambers in series , through which anesthetic and other pours can be passed , contain : the first , a leaf of Canadensis der the microscope ( X 300 ) ; the second , a sciatic nerve of nporaria connected with an inductorium and galvanometer ( or on occasion a galvanograph ) .* The actual movements of chlorophyll bodies in a cell of the leaf ; re observed and measured by one of us , while the other observer ok readings of the galvanometric deflections in response to excita- , n of the nerve .
To establish comparison between the two classes effects , we took as measures:\#151 ; the number of chlorophyll bodies at crossed a cobweb in the eye-piece during each successive minute , d the magnitude of galvanometric deflections at intervals of one inute , before , during , and after the action of the vapour .
The imber of bodies passing per minute gives measure of the rate of ovement in the vegetable protoplasm , while the magnitude of succes-ve galvanometric deflections gives measure of the mobility of the dmal protoplasm .
Our results will be most briefly presented by the records of some presentative observations .
Experiment Chara .
Nerve .
hloroform vapour , 5 per Permanent abolition of Temporary abolition of cent , for 2 minutes .
movement .
mobility .
Experiment II .
\gt ; Teak ether vapour for No marked effect .
No marked effect .
10 minutes .
trongcr ether vapour for Permanent abolition .
Temporary diminution .
4 minutes .
* As described in 4 Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 188 ( 1897 ) , p. 4 .
Messrs. J. B. Farmer and A. D. Waller .
Nitrous oxide for 5 minutes .
Hydrogen for 5 minutes .
Carbon dioxide for 3 minutes .
Experiment III .
JElodea .
Diminution of movement .
Diminution .
Arrested , followed by more rapid movement .
Carbon dioxide for 4 mi- Ditto , nutes .
Carbon dioxide for 2 mi- Ditto , nutes .
Time .
co'-u Experiment FA ode a. Rate of movement , indicated bj number of chlorophyll granules passing per minute .
4 ) 0/ 0 0 0 Nerve .
Diminution of response Diminution .
Diminution from 15 tci followed by augmei tion to 35 .
Diminution , followed \gt ; augmentation .
Ditto .
Rate of movement , indicated by numbt of chlorophyll granules passing per minute .
0 Qn the Action of Anaesthetics on Protoplasm .
Experiments V , VI , and VII .
Action of Carbon Dioxide , of Ether , and of Chloroform upon Vegetable and Animal Protoplasm .
A Movements of Etode co2 B. Mobility of nerve of Rana ~cof \#163 ; .CzO 1 I 1 \#163 ; \#163 ; ,0 CHCL ^ T \#151 ; J i 11 TT 0 / S3 4 5 6 7 8 3 IO / / 12 15 / 5 !
6 min. The results obtained from a study of Chara and Elodea were quite consistent , but owing to the greater ease in making a quantitative determination , the latter plant was used for the more exact compara tive experiments . .
, The action of carbon dioxide was to produce an initial slight acceleration , followed speedily by a complete cessation of movement .
After disconnecting the C02 apparatus and aspirating aii tin ou_ , the chamber the protoplasm , after the lapse of two or three minutes , began to show signs of recovery .
Fitful movements of the granu es first occurred , and then they soon resumed their processional motion around the cell .
At first very slow , the movement rapidly became accelerated and considerably exceeded the normal rate .
Tins acre e ration was not of long dnration , and was followed by a slowing i o\\n to the ordinary speed .
On the A ction of Anaesthetics on Protoplasm .
The nerve showed itself , under the conditions of the experiment less sensitive to the action of C02 than was Elodea , and the latte : was less sensitive than an active Myxomycete plasmodium ( of Bad hamia ) similarly treated .
Ether vapour in air passed over the plant for two minutes caused a speedy arrest of all movement , and the quiescent condition persisted for some minutes longer .
Recovery then ensued and the normal rate of movement was slowly regained .
With dilute ether vapour ( below 10 per cent , in air ) insufficient to anaesthetise the nerve , the protoplasmic circulation was unaffected .
Chloroform.\#151 ; The action of chloroform proved to be far more deadly than that of ether .
Movement was arrested in less than a minute , and two minutes ' exposure to the full action of its vapour caused the death of the cell .
Y\ ben a more diluted vapour ( about 2 per cent , in air ) was passed over the cell for two minutes recovery ultimately occurred .
The action of ether and chloroform , especially the latter , was very marked in causing many of the chlorophyll granules , which had previously been almost restricted to the lateral walls , and hence had presented their edges to the incident light , to become dispersed over the sir ace of the cell , where they were fully exposed , over their argest area to the light .
The action of carbon dioxide as observed m t es experiments was not nearly so pronounced .
This phenomenon is such as might have been anticipated as a result of the paralysis , temporary or permanent , of the protoplasm .

