258 Prof. E. 0 .
Bower .
Studies the [ Jan. 30 ridge of some sharpness between the places is to create a distinct shadow , to such an extent that the effect would be inappreciable ; the same result would be produced by an intervening headland ; this agrees with the experience of Captain Jackson.* " Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members.\#151 ; No. V. General Comparisons , and Conclusion .
" By E. O. Bower , Sc. D. , E.E.S. , Eegius Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow .
Eeceived January 30 , \#151 ; Eead February 12 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) This concluding Memoir contains a general discussion of the results acquired in the four previous parts of this series , and of their bearing on a theory of sterilisation in the sporophyte .
The attempt is made to build up the comparative morphology of the sporophyte from below , by the study of its simpler types ; the higher and more specialised types are left out of account , except for occasional comparison .
It is assumed for the purposes of the discussion that alternation of generations in the Archegoniatse is of the antithetic type , and that apogamy and apospory are abnormalities , not of primary origin .
After a brief allusion to facts of sterilisation in the Sporogonia of Bryophytes , the similar facts are summarised for the Pteridophytes .
It has been found that examples of sterilisation of potentially sporo-genous cells are common also in vascular plants , while occasionally cells which are normally sterile may develop spores .
Hence it is concluded that spore-production in the Archegoniate plants is not in all cases strictly limited to , or defined by , preordained formative cells , or cell-groups .
A discussion of the archesporium follows , and though it is found that in all Pteridophyta the sporogenous tissue is ultimately referable to the segmentation of a superficial cell , or cells , still in them , and indeed in vascular plants at large , the segmentations which lead up to the formation of spore-mother-cells are not comparable in all cases ; in fact , that there is no general law of segmentation underlying the existence of that cell or cells which a last analysis may mark out as the " archesporium nor do these ultimate parent cells give rise in all cases to cognate products .
Therefore it is concluded that the general application of a definite term to those ultimate parent cells which the analysis discloses has no scientific meaning , beyond the statement of the histiogenic fact .
Further , it is shown that the tapetum is not a morphological constant , * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1902 .
1903 .
] Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
259 but varies both in occurrence and origin * that even the individuality of the sporangium is not always maintained .
All that remains then as the fundamental conception of the sporangium in vascular plants is the spore-mother-cell , or cells , and the tissue which covers them in , for such cells are always produced internally .
The definition of the sporangium may then be given thus : " Wherever we find in plants a single spore-mother-cell , or connected group of , or their products , this ivithits protective tissues constitutes the essential of an individual angium .
" From the point of view of a theory of sterilisation such sporangia may , at least in the simplest cases , be regarded as islands of fertile tissue which have retained their spore-producing character , while the surrounding tissues have been diverted to other uses .
It will be seen later how far this view will have to be modified in the more complex cases .
In a second section of the Memoir the variations in number of sporangia in vascular plants are discussed ; the methods of variation may be tabulated as follows , under the heads of progressive increase and decrease:\#151 ; I.\#151 ; Increase in Number of Sporangia .
( a. ) By septation , with or without rounding off of the individual sporangia .
( b. ) By formation of new sporangia , or of new spore-bearing organs , which may be in addition to , or interpolated between those typically present .
( c. ) By continued apical , or intercalary growth of the parts bearing the sporangia .
( d. ) By branching of the parts bearing the sporangia .
{ e. ) Indirectly , by branchings in the non-sporangial region resulting in an increased number of sporangial shoots ; this is closely related to ( c ) and ( d ) .
II.\#151 ; Decrease in Number of Sporangia .
if .
) By fusion of sporangia originally separate .
( g. ) By abortion , partial or complete , of sporangia .
{ h. ) By reduction or arrest of apical or intercalary growth in parts bearing sporangia .
( i. ) By fusion of parts which bear the sporangia or arrest of their branchings .
( j. ) Indirectly , by suppression of branchings in the non-sporangial region , resulting in decreased number of sporangial shoots ; this is closely related to ( h)and ( i ) .
We are justified in assuming that ( subject to the possibility of other factors having been operative of which we are yet unaware ) U 2 2G0 Prof. F. 0 .
Bower .
Studies [ Jan. 30 , the condition of any polysporangiate sporophyte as we see it is the resultant of modifications such as these , operative during its descent .
The problem will , therefore , be in each case to assign its proper place in the history to any or each of these factors .
It is pointed out that in homosporous types , which are certainly the more primitive , the larger the number of spores the better the chance of survival , and hence , other things being equal , increasing numbers of spores and of sporangia may be anticipated ; but in the heterosporous types reduction in number both of spores and of sporangia is frequent .
The former will accordingly illustrate more faithfully than the heterosporous forms the story of the increase of complexity of spore-producing parts .
The general method put in practice here is to regard homosporous forms as in the upgrade of their evolution , as regards their spore-producing organs , unless there is clear evidence to the contrary .
The onus lies rather with those who assume reduction to have taken place in them .
A summary of evidence of variation in number of sporangia by any of these methods is then given for ttlie Lycopodinea ?
, Psilotacese , Sphenophyllese , Ophioglossacese , Equisetinete , and Filicinere ; followed in each case by a theoretical discussion of the bearing of that evidence on the morphology of the spore-producing members .
The general result is that all of them , including even the dorsiventral and megaphyllous types , are referable to modifications of a radial strobiloid type ; progressive elaboration of spore-producing parts , followed by progressive sterilisation , and especially by abortion of sporangia in them , of which there is frequent evidence , together with the acquirement of a dorsiventral structure , may be held to account for the origin of even the most complex forms .
But the vegetative organs once formed may also undergo elaboration , and differentiation pan passu with the spore-producing organs , a point which has greatly complicated the problem , especially in the higher forms ; all roots are probably of secondary origin ; facts of interpolation of additional sporangia , especially in Ferns , and of apogamy and apospory , are also disturbing influences , which have probably been of relatively * recent acquisition .
A comparison is drawn as regards position , physiological and evolutionary , in the sporophyte between the fertile zone in certain Bryophytes and the fertile region of certain simple Pteridophytes , .
e.g. , the Lycopods ; though no community of descent is assumed , the relation of the reproductive to the vegetative regions is the same .
In the Bryophytes that region is regarded as a residuum from progressive sterilisation ; it is suggested that the same is the case for a strobiloid Pteridophyte , such as Lycopodium .
The theory of the strobilus , based on this comparison , is that similiar causes would lead to 1903 .
] Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
'201 the decentralisation of the fertile tissue in the primitive Pteridophytes as in the Bryophyt.es , and result in the formation of a central sterile tract , with an archesporium at its periphery ; that such an archesporium , instead of remaining a concrete layer as it is in the larger Musci , became discrete in the Lycopods ; that the fertile cell-groups formed the centres of projecting sporangia , and that they were associated regularly with outgrowths , perhaps of correlative vegetative origin , which are the sporophylls .
Whether or not this hypothesis of the origin of a Lycopod strobilus approaches the actual truth , comparison points out the genus Lycopodium as a primitive one , characterised by more definite numerical and topographical relation of the sporangia to the sporophylls than in any other type of Pteridophyta .
Then follows , as a consequence of comparison , the enunciation of a theory of the sporangiophore , a word which is here used in an extended sense to include not only the spore-producing organs of Psilotacese , Sphenophylleae , Ophioglossacese , Equisetacese , but also the sori of Ferns .
The view is upheld that all these are simply placental growths , and not the result of " metamorphosis " of any parts or appendages of prior existence ; that the vascular supply , which is not .always present , is not an essential feature ; that they are seated at points where in the ancestry spore-production has been proceeding on an advancing scale ; hence they do not occupy any fixed and definite position .
It seems probable that at least a plurality of sporangia existed on primitive sporangiophores , and that where only one exists that condition has been the result of reduction .
The above theories are then applied to the several types of Pteridophyta .
The Lycopods , Psilotaceae , Sphenophylleae , and Ophioglossacese may be arranged as illustrating the increased complexity of the spore-producing parts , and of the subtending sporophylls ; the factors of the advance from the simple sporangium to the more complex sporangiophore are , septation , upgrowth of the placenta with vascular supply into it , and branching , with apical growth also in the Ophioglossacese .
But even in the most complex forms the sporangiophore may be regarded as a placental growth , and not the result of transformation of any other member .
In the case of Helminthostachysthe marginal sporangiophores are regarded as amplifications from the sunken sporangia of the glossumtype ; in Equisetumthey are regarded as being directly seated on the axis , and having originated there by a similar progression : they would thus be non-foliar .
It is pointed out that though a foliar theory would be possible for Equisetum itself , it is not applicable to the facts known for the fossil Calamariese , which are so naturally related to it .
Thus the strobilus of the Equisetineae is of a rather different type from that of the Lycopods , Psilotacese , or eAren the 262 Prof. F. 0 .
Bower , Studies the [ Jan. 30 , Ophioglossacese , in all of which there is a constant relation of the spore-producing parts to the leaves ; in the Equisetinese no such constant relation exists ; the leaves and sporangiophores may he in juxtaposition , as in Calamostachys , without exactly matching numerically ; or the sporangiophores may occur in larger numbers and in several ranks , between successive leaf-sheaths , as in and Bomia ; or without any leaves at all , as in Thus , on a non- phyllome theory the latter may be held to be only an extreme case of what is seen in certain fossils .
The Ferns , notwithstanding their apparent divergence of character from other Pteridophytes , may also be regarded as strobiloicl forms , with greatly enlarged leaves ; the primitive sori of the Simplices resemble the sporangiophores of other Pteridophytes ; the more complicated soral conditions of the Gradatse and Mixtse were probably derivative from these , the chief difference being due to the interpolation of new sporangia , an innovation which is in accordance with biological probability , as well as with the palaeontological record .
The effect of the results thus obtained on the systematic grouping of the Pteridophytes is then discussed ; it is pointed out that the Lycopods , Psilotacese , Sphenophyllese , Ophioglossacese , and Filices illustrate lines of elaboration of a radial strobiloid type , with increasing size of the leaf .
The division of Pteridophyta by Jeffrey , on anatomical characters , into small-leaved Lycopsida , and large-leaved Pteropsida is quoted ; but it is concluded that the anatomical distinction of Jeffrey does not define phylogenetically distinct races , but is rather a register of such leaf-development as differentiated them from some common source .
It is contended that the Ophioglossacese and Filices , which constitute Jeffrey 's Pteropsida , are not necessarily akin on the ground of their large leaves , and consequent phyllosiphonie structure ; but that they probably acquired the megaphyllous character along distinct lines .
The opinion of Celakovsky is still held , " that the Lycopods are probably of living plants , the nearest prototypes of the Ophioglossacese .
" The more recent investigations of Jeffrey , and of Lang , have shown , however , that in the gametophyte of the Ophioglossacese , there is an assemblage of " Filieinean " characters , which differ from those of Lycopodium itself .
But Celakovsky s comparison is with the Lycopods , not with the genus Lycopodium ; so far as the facts go , increasing " Filicinean " characters of the gametophyte follow in rough proportion to the larger size of the leaf ; thus from Isoetes we learn that a combination of cross characters is found in a megaphyllous Lycopod type .
What we find in the Ophioglossacese is that in conjunction with their more pronounced megs phylions form , stil retaining , however , the Lycopodinous type of the sporophyte , thej show more pronounced " Filicinean " characters of the gametophj to , and of the sexual organs .
Tt , is unfortunate that the facts relating to 1903 .
] Morphology of Spore-producin 263 the gametophyte of the Psilotacese and Sphenophyllese are not avail ' able in this comparison .
It is not obvious what the meaning is of this parallelism between leaf-size and characters of the sexual organs ; a further difficulty in its interpretation lies in the fact that for the Equiseta the parallelism does not hold ; there " Filicinean " characters of the gametophyte accompany entirely non-Filicinean characters of the sporophyte , the latter showing nearer analogy to the Lycopods than to the Ferns .
Such cross characters are difficult to harmonise with any phylogenetic theory ; on account of them , the Equisetinese are placed in an isolated position , and in the same way , though with less pressing grounds , a separate position should be accorded to those types which lie between the extremes of Lycopods and Ferns , in proportion as the characters are more or less pronounced .
On this basis the Isoetacese would probably best take their place as a sub-series of the Lycopodiales , Ligulatse ; the Psilotacese and Spheno-phyllese would constitute a series of Sphenophyllales , separate from , but related to , the Lycopodiales .
The Ophioglossacese would form an independent series of Ophioglossales , more aloof than the latter from the Lycopodiales , but not included in the Filicales .
The actual connection of these series by descent must remain open ; it is quite possible that some or all of them may have originated along distinct lines from a general primitive group , which may be provisionally designated the Protopteridophyta ; these were probably small-leaved strobiloid forms , with radial type of construction , and with the sporangia disposed on some simple plan .
The grouping arrived at in these Memoirs may be tabulated as follows :\#151 ; PTERIDOPHYTA .
I. Lycopodiales .
( a ) Eligulatse .
Lycopodiacese .
( b ) Ligulatse .
Selaginellacese .
Lepidodendracese Sigillariaccse .
Isoetaceoe .
II .
Spenophyllales .
Psilotacea* .
Sphenophyllacete .
III .
Ophioglossales .
Ophioglossacese .
264 Dr. X. H. Alcock .
On Negative Variation [ Jan. 17 , IV .
Filicales .
( a)Simpliees .
Marattiacese .
Osmundacete .
Schizaeacese .
Gleicheniaceoe .
Matoninese .
( b ) Gradatae .
Loxsomaceae .
Hymenophyllaceae .
Cyatheaceae .
Dicksonieae .
Dennstaedtiinae .
Hydropterideae ( ) .
( e ) Mixtae .
Davallieae .
Lindsayeae .
Pterideae , and other Polypodiaceae .
V. Equisetales .
Equisetaceae .
Calamarieae .
" On the Negative Variation in the Nerves of Warm-blooded Animals .
" By N. H. Alcock , M.D. Communicated by A. D. Waller , M.D. , E.B S. Beceived January 17 , \#151 ; Bead February 12 , 1903 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University of London , S.YY .
) Introduction .
The negative variation in the nerves of warm-blooded animals has already been the subject of several researches.* While the nerves are still in connection with the tissues it has been the experience of most observers that there is no difficulty in examining the negative variation , * Valentin , ' Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 1 , p. 423 ; Fredericq , 'Du Bois Archiv , ' 1880 , p. 70 ; Hermann , 'Physiologic , ' vol. 2 , p. 120 ; Gf-otch and Horsley , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' " Croonian Lecture , " 1891 , p. 267 ; Macdonald and W. Reid , ' J. Physiol. , ' vol. 23 , p. 100 ; Waller , ' Animal Electricity , ' London , 1897 ; Boruttau , ( a ) ' Centralbl .
f. Pliysiologie , ' vol. 12 , p. 317 , 1898 , ( 6 ) Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 84 , p. 309 , 1901 .

