490 Mr. W. Galloway .
" On the Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
No. III .
" By W. Galloway .
Received May 30 , Read June 16 , 1881.* Revised February 10 , 1882 .
[ Plate 4 .
] In September of last year ( 1880 ) I commenced a new series of experiments with coal-dust with a larger apparatus than the one described at p. 416 , vol. 28 of the " Proceedings .
" Excepting , the difference of scale , however , the two sets of apparatus are nearly the same in construction , and they are identical as far as the experiment is concerned .
A photograph accompanying the paper , and remaining in the hands of the Royal Society , represents the apparatus as it stands ready for work at Llwynypia Colliery .
Its principal details may be sufficiently understood from a verbal description ; they are as follows:\#151 ; A. The explosion chamber , about 6 feet long by 2 feet in diameter ; lined with thin strips of wood round about its circumference ; with two openings , a and a ' , in its upper side , the first for admitting firedamp , the second for igniting the mixture ; a third opening nearly below a ' for letting otit the air displaced by the fire-damp is not visible .
Internally it is provided with a small centrifugal fan , which draws the air and gas from the farther end of the cylinder through a pipe 4 inches in diameter , and concentric with the cylinder , and ejects it round its periphery at the nearer end , where it is situated .
This mixes the air and gas .
The cylinder rests on a carriage with wheels , and can be drawn back from or brought close up to the rectangular chamber , B , to which it can be fastened by means of four bolts .
B. The gallery , about 126 feet long by 2 feet square inside , made of wood , consisting of seven pieces , each 18 feet long , placed end to end .
The separate pieces are hooped with iron bands , and one side of each can be opened like a door 18 feet long by 2 feet 3 inches wide , with horizontal hinges .
The iron hoops are so arranged that they constitute hinges , haspsk and locking-bolts for the doors at the same time .
C. The measuring cylinder ; its upper end is connected with the explosion chamber , on the one hand , by means pf the india-rubber tube attached at the point a , and with the fire-damp pipe on the other hand by means of the tube b ; its lower end is connected to the bottom of the vessel D by means of the flexible pipe c ; it is provided with three stop-cocks and a water-gauge .
D. A vessel that can be raised above or lowered below the level of the measuring cylinder by means of a windlass , F , with a rope passing over the pulley , d , and attached to the bow at its top .
* See Abstract , vol. 33 , p. 454 .
On the Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
401 E. A small air-fan driven by a steam turbine .
\gt ; P. The windlass .
G. A grooved wheel for driving the fan inside the explosion chamber by means of an endless cord that passes over a small grooved pulley in the centre of the end of that chamber .
H. The fire-damp pipe .
K. The steam pipe .
When the vessel D is full of water and raised to the point it occupies in the drawing , its contents flow into the measuring vessel C , and expel the air contained in it .
The vessel D is then lowered until its top is under the level of the bottom of the measuring cylinder , and the water flows back out of the latter into the former ; and when the upper end of the measuring cylinder is in communication with the fire-damp pipe it fills with that gas .
By raising the vessel D again to the position occupied at first , the fire-damp can be expelled and driven into the explosion chamber at a. Following are the various operations that require to be performed before an experiment is made:\#151 ; The explosion chamber is drawn back and several sheets of paper are inserted between it and the gallery , so as to form a diaphragm between them .
They are then bolted together , and the quantity of fire-damp required to produce the most explosive mixture is forced into the explosion chamber from the measuring cylinder , at the same time that a corresponding quantity of air is allowed to flow out below .
The lower opening is then plugged , and the wheel G is revolved 100 times .
Meanwhile the fan E can be supplying heated air to the gallery through the channel which connects them ; but in my later experiments I have not found that this affects the result to an appreciable extent .
The side which constitutes the door of each section of the gallery is raised in succession , and coal-dust is strewed on the floor to a thickness of ^to \#163 ; inch ; some is also laid on shelves , which are placed in sets of three , one above the other , at distances varying from 10 to 20 feet apart .
When the floor is made damp with water , so as to fix every particle of dust that cannot be swept out with a brush , the flame of the firedamp explosion travels along the gallery to a distance of 12 feet on the average .
When the gallery contains coal-dust , on the other hand , the explosion of the fire-damp raises it in a cloud , and the flame appears to travel as far as the cloud contains more than a certain minimum amount of dust , and then to die out for want of fuel .
A fair average distance is 70 feet , but it occasionally reaches 80 and 85 feet , and on one occasion it extended to 104 feet .
The natural supply of fire-damp is too limited to admit of the creation of an atmosphere with an appreciable proportion of fire-damp in the interior of the gallery , so that all the experiments have been made with pure air hitherto ; and , further , as I have already mentioned , I do not find VOL. XXXIII .
2 N Mr. VI .
Galloway .
that heating the air to a temperature of 70 ' or 80 ' Fahr. makes any difference in the result , so that I have discontinued to do so in the more recent experiments .
With this apparatus , as with the smaller one described in my previous- paper , of which it is a copy , the inertia and frictional resistance of the air filling the gallery appears to be a factor of considerable importance .
For instance , if the whole of the sections are closed , making the gallery continuous throughout its whole length of 126 feet , the flame of the coal-dust does not reach further than 50 or 60 feet from the origin ; but if the sides of the fourth and fifth sections are open , making the closed portion only 54 feet long , and leaving 36 feet with only three sides , the flame will , as a rule , be 70 feet and sometimes 80 and 90 feet long .
The flame of the coal-dust appears to be self-supporting in pure air , but it cannot keep up the disturbance necessary to supply itself with fuel on this small scale , and , consequently , it cannot get much beyond the point to which the more energetic action , of the fire-damp explosion has extended .
I will not pursue this subject further at present , as it is my intention to continue the experiments , and I hope to have another opportunity of stating the results .
Three great colliery explosions took place during the year 1880 , namely , Eisca on the 15th of July , with a loss of 120 lives ; Seaham on the 8th of September , with a loss of 164 lives ; and Penygraig on the 10th of December , with a loss of 101 lives .
For the purpose of the present paper I visited Risca Colliery on the 24th of October , and Seaham Colliery on the 24th of November of the same year .
I had also an excellent opportunity of acquiring an intimate knowledge of the details of Penygraig explosion , having been* entrusted with the direction of the exploring operations , and having visited the workings twice within the first twenty-four hours after its occurrence , and several times at a later period .
The workings of each of these mines were dry , and their roadways were covered with dry coal-dust , from the faces at which the coal was worked to the bottom of the upcast and downcast shafts ; but , with the exception of making this general remark regarding them , I do not propose , in this place , further to refer to the Risca or Seaham explosions .
At Penygraig Colliery I made three principal sets of observations which have not , I believe , been made in any previous case of the kind , and they appear to throw a considerable amount of light on the nature of the accident .
They were as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The flame of the explosion ha passed through or penetrated into every part of the workings with the exception of one wet heading d ( see the accompanying plan ) at the bottom of the downcast shaft .
* It should be mentioned in this place that I had no connexion with or knowledge of Penygraig Colliery before the explosion took place .
On the Influence of Coal-dust Colliery Explosions .
493 Four of the five men who escaped with their lives were m the heading d at the time of the explosion .
They saw the flash , hat were not burnt .
The fifth , who was working in a de sac at e , was slightly burnt , and remained unconscious for many hours .
The unshaded galleries on the plan , except d , show the universal distribution of the flame , which must also be supposed to have passed over the ground covered by falls of roof due to the explosion .
The shaded patches show the points at which the evidence of a high temperature , such as really charred timber and thick deposits of coked coal-dust , were strongest .
It will be seen that each of these points was either in a cul de sac , or was approachable from two opposite directions .
2 .
Five or six of the seventeen bodies found between the points b and e in the main heading were in a kneeling , then mouths were covered with their hands , and their faces were pressed into dust on the floor .
One body in the roadway l was the same position ; another near him was lying on his side with his coat drawn closely over his mouth and nose , and held tightly with one hand ; and a third , lying at the opposite side of the roadway , had his mouth pressed on the ground , his head having been twisted round to some extent so as to admit of this .
I observed that two of the first group and the three constituting the last group had been burnt after they had assumed these positions , but unfortunately I did not particularly examine the others , as they had been removed before the true significance of these circumstances had dawned upon me .
3 .
There were deposits , or crusts , of coked coal-dust m every working place in the mine ( from the district with the two small arrowheads above the upcast shaft to the district g above the downcast shaft at the opposite extremity ) , that is to say , where the coal-dust was comparatively free from impurities , and capable of adhering to the timber and other objects when thrown against them in a fluid or semi-fluid state .
On the other hand , the same kind of deposits were very rare , and for the most part entirely absent , in the main roadways through which the flame must necessarily have passed in travelling from one district to another , that is to say , where the coal-dust was largely mixed with shale-dust and other , and consequently incapable of cohering when heated .
The following table of analyses which the late Professor A. Freire-Marreco , of Newcastle-on-Tyne , kindly prepared for me , shows the composition of the coal itself , that of the dust from the floor , \amp ; c. , and that of the so-called coked coal-dust .
Each number on the table corresponds to the same number on the plan , which indicates the spot at which the sample in question was collected .
Mr. W. Galloway .
Position on the plan .
2a 8a 8b .
1 Description of the Sample .
Moisture and volatile matter .
Ash .
Penygraig coal 18-66 2-05 Dust from the floor of the main heading. . . .
17 -67 22-20 Residue after sifting out 2 through muslin. .
18 -91 31 10 Coked coal-dust from a prop at the face ... .
15 -29 6-61 Exceedingly light , hollow , brittle vesicles of a black shining substance found adhering as a thin skin to the roof over the whole shaded space at ( 4 ) .
The vesicles were thickly studded all over the same space , and hung down from the roof , like pen-dants , i to f inch long 18-31 6-00 Dust brushed from a prop : no coked crusts near *\#171 ; ... ... ... ... ... ... .*.** ... **.* 15 -67 23 -94 Dust brushed from a ledge of rock : no coke near , t , , , , , , , , * .
14-94 25 -60 Dust brushed from large stones on the floor r no coked crusts near 14 -45 29-67 Shale constituting the roof of the seam 8-46 92-56 Brittle shale that falls with the coal , varying in thickness from i inch to 3 inches 10-65 77 -08 Shale constituting the floor of the seam ... .
10-14 82 -57 The small black single-headed arrows show the direction in which the deposits of coked coal-dust were thrown against the objects to which they were found adhering .
The double-headed arrows show that it had been thrown against the same objects from two sides , probably first from one side and then from the other .
It should be carefully noted that , as a rule , the arrows point away from the solid ground , and consequently in a direction contrary to that in which the blast must of necessity have travelled in passing through or into every working place in the colliery , except the one in which the explosion originated .
It must , therefore , have been deposited during the retrograde movement of the air , and this corresponds to the observation I had previously made at Llan Colliery in regard to the same phenomenon ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 24 , p. 359 ) .
If these deposits were to be found everywhere in the workings , and if the currents which produced them were not liable to baffling and reversal from local circumstances , it is obvious that the arrows showing the direction in which they had been thrown would nearly all point backwards to the spot at which the explosion had originated .
Although differences of opinion were expressed as to the causes of the explosion in the case before us , it was admitted on all hands , that it had probably originated somewhere in the neighbourhood of the point o. Lastly , although the existence of accumulations of explosive gas appears to have been almost unknown in the mine , there could be no doubt that a very large amount of fire-damp was being constantly Proc. Roj .
Soc. Vol. 33 .
PL .
4 .
PENYGRAIG COLLIERY EXPLOSION , Shaft The , large arrows show the , direction of the blast of the Explosion ______ ?
The- small\#166 ; arrows show the , direction/ in , which coked , coocl duot \lt ; \gt ; wax thrown agcxinsl timbers etc. ... ... ... ... ... ... .
I \lt ; ___________ Falls of roof couuxed by the Explosion , .
... ... .
Fodls of ' roof existing before the Explosion ... ... ... ... ... ... Space from- which cooul has , been/ removed and been , replaced with stowing ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 BPlM Galleries etc. through which the Flame of the Explosion passed ; r\#151 ; --------------1 Points at which there'are indicoutions of a high temperature Scad* : 4- Chains to 1 Iruhs .
1 2 3 4-5 6 7 6 9 10 West Ntwm/ x-K \amp ; Cf sculp * ' On the Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
41'5 given off at a more or less uniform rate along the face of the solid coal .
From observations made at the time I estimated that the air-current , which would receive a certain proportion of gas from each working place through which it passed in succession , would , on leaving the last working place nearest the upcast shaft , always contain rather more than 2 per cent , of fire-damp ; and I have no doubt whatever that this latent fire-damp , acting in conjunction with the coal-dust , was a most important factor in promoting and intensifying the explosion .

