1 .
" Abstract of a series of Papers and Notes concerning the Electric Discharge through Rarefied Gases and Vapours .
" By Professor PL'UCKER , of Bonn , For .
Memb. R.S. Received December 6 , 1859 .
I. Action of the nagnet on electric currents tran8mitted through tubes of anyform .
The action exerted by a magnet on the luminous electric discharge , passing through a tube or any vessel of glass which contains residual traces of any gas or vapour , may be generally explained , if we regard the discharge as a bundle of elementary currents , which , under the influence of the magnet , ehange their form , as well as their position within the tube , according to the well-known laws of electro-magnetic action .
The conicentration of the discharge into onie free arch only takes place if the arch be allowed to constitute apart of a line of magnetic force .
[ According to theory , there is no electro-magnetic action at all exerted on any element of a linear electric current which proceeds along such a line .
] This condition , for instance , is fulfilled in the case of an exhausted sphere of glass , through which the discharge is sent by means of two small apertures , if the sphere be put on the iron pieces of an electro-magnet in such a way that the two apertures coincide with any two points of a line of magnetic force .
There is another case of electro-magnetic equilibrium , which takes place if the current proceed along an " epibolic curve , " i. e. along a curve , falling within the interior surface of the vessel , whose elements , regarded as elements of an electric current , are perpendicular to the direction of the electro-magnetic force and impelled by this force towards the surface .
Aln exhausted cylindrical tube , when equatorially placed on the iron pieces of the electro-magnet , presents the simplest instance of this case .
All elementary currents are conicentrated by the magnet along one straight line , which , according to the direction of the discharge and to the magnetic polarity , occIupies either the highest or the lowest position within the tube .
When the axis of the tube makes an angle of 450 both with the axial and equatorial direction , the epibolic curve is foundl to be a fine spiral .
If neither of the two conditions mentioned above can be fulfilled , i. e. if the current cannot proceed either along a free magnetic or an epibolic curve , no voltaic arch will be obtained ; the current will be disturbed , and its light difused .
This , for instance , is the case when the above-mentioned cylindrical tube is placed axially on the two poles of the magnet : there will be seen above each of these poles a luminous epibolic straight line , lying within the horizontal plane which passes through the axis of the tube , one on each side of this axis ; but there exists neither a linie of magnetic force nor an epibolic curve , joining the extremities of the two epibolic straight lines between the poles ; hence diffusion of light .
The , re are other classes of phenomena not at all indicated and explained by the laws of electro-magnetism .
In many cases the magnet extinguishes the light of the current , without altering its intensity .
I sent the discharge of Ruhmkorffs apparatus at once through two exhausted tubes , communicating by a copper wire .
The first tube , about eight inches long and highly exhausted , was brought over the iron pieces of the electro-magnet into an equatorial position , while the second one was placed at some distance from the poles .
Whilst the magnet was not excited , both tubes became luminous by the transmitted current ; when it was excited , the light of the first tube enitirely disappeared , while the appearance of the second did not unidergo the least change .
Hence we conclude that the disappearance of the light does not prove the extinction of the current .
Similar results are obtained when a tube having the shape of the annexed drawing is brought with its narrow middle part between the two iron pieces .
In this case the light disappears where the magnetic action is greatest , but not in the other parts of the apparatus .
Sometimes before the light disappears , its colour is entirely changed , while in other cases , the magnetic force being less strong , only the change of colour takes place .
The violet colour of sulphurous acid and of vapour of bromine is thus transformed into a fine green , and the blue of chloride of tin becomes a beautiful colouir of pure gold .
If the magnet be strong enough , a phenomenon of the same kind is obtained when .
in the above-mentioned experiment the larger tube is put equatorially on the iron pieces , and the current concentrated in the lowest part of the tube .
Then , where the magnetic action is greatest , the illuminated epibolic straight line is interrupted , terminating in two cusps , which in the case of sulphurous acid show a green colour .
Waving light goes from one cusp to the other .
In a room quiite dark , highly diffused light is seen moving from one pole to the other , along lines of magnetic force .
When the sphere previously mentioned is placed on the iron pieces so that the two opposite apertures fall within the equatorial plane , the transmitted current will be concentrated along an epibolic curve , which in this case is one of the two arcs of the great circle within the equatorial plane , supplementary to each other , and joining the two apertures .
If it be the lower arc , turned towards the magnet , the epibolic current starting from the positive wire terminates in a cusp , where the action of the magnetic force , supposed generally to be strong , is greatest , while from the opposite side waving light enters the sphere .
In this case there is only one cusp .
II .
The light of the negative wire bent by the magnet into curves and s8u:faces .
In order to render the new class of phenomena most brilliant and well defined , larger tubes of a cylindrical shape , into which long wires enter at both ends , are to be selected .
The light surrounding the negative wire must be as bright as possible , and the well-known dark space by which it is bounded must be very broad .
The magnet acts on this light in a peculiar way , having no analogy with phenomena hitherto observed .
I easily discovered the law giving in all cases the exact description of the phenomenon .
The light emanating from any not isolated point of the negative wire , and diverging in all directions towards the interior surface of the surrounding tube , is bent by the action of the magnet into the magnetic curve , which passes through this point .
According to the law already mentioned , such a curve is the only one along which an electric current can move without being disturbed by the magnet .
It equally represents the form which a chain of infinitely small iron needlews , absolutely flexible and not subjected to gravity , would assurne , if attached with one of its points in the point of the negative wire .
It is well known that a magnetic curve is completely determinied by a single one of its points .
Therefore the whole light , starting from all the different points of the negative wire , will be concentrated within a surface generated by a variable magnetic curve .
The form of this " magnietic surface " varies according to the form of the negative wire , and its position with regard to the poles of the electro-magnet .
When the negative wire lies within the equatorial plane , the magnetic surface assumes the shape of a vauilt ; when the wire lies within the axial plane , the whole surface is contained withir the same plane , and generally bounded by very well defined magnetic curves .
The negative light partly depends upon the substance of the wire .
Particles of it , either pure or combined with the included gas , are carried off to the interior surface of the tube , which , when platina wires are used , consequently is blackened .
If not acted upon by the magnet , all the part of the surface surrounding the platina wire becomes black ; if acted upon , only that line along which the surface of the tube is intersected by the magnetic surface is blackened .
In this case , therefore , the particles separatedfrom the wire move along magnetic curves .
I think it most probable that the luminious electric currents in question are double currents , -going from the wire to the glass , and returning from the glass to the wire .
The importance of the use of magnetic curves , or lines of magnetic force , in experimental researches , has been shown by several philosophers , especially by Mr. Faraday .
Hitherto only filings of iron enabled us to give in peculiar cases an imperfect image of these curves .
We may now trace through space such a curve in the most distinct way and illuminate it with bright electric light .
III .
The light of the positive wire and its spirals under the magnetic action .
The origin of the current takes place at the positive wire .
If the negative wire is not too far from the positive , most striking phenomena are obtained when the magnet is acting on the formation of the electric current .
In these experiments I made use principally of highly exhausted spheres , about two inches in diameter , through which two platina wires , either parallel or perpendicular to each other , were conducted , whose shortest distance was about 0-8 of an inch .
When , for instalnce , the sphere with parallel wires is put on the iron pieces of the electro-magnet so that both wires fall within the equatorial plane and are vertical , the whole circular section of the sphere passing through the negative wire is almost uniformly illuminated by violet light , while the light of the positive electrode appears at one of its extremities , whence it moves , along an epibolic curve , to the corresponding extremity of the negative wire .
On reversing the polarity of the magnet , the illuminated epibolic curve passes from one extremity of the positive wire to the other , while the appearance of the negative light , after the reversion , is not at all altered .
When the positive wire terminates within the sphere , we get , according to the magnetic polarity , either an epibolic curve , or diffused light , starting from the free extremity of the positive wire towards the surface of the circle illuminated by the negative light .
When the sphere with crossed wires is put on the iron pieces so that the negative wire becomes vertical , the positive one horizontal and equatorial , the whole surface of the axial circle passing through the vertical wire is illuminated , except the lower part , which is bounded by the magnetic curve starting from the lower extremity of this wire .
There is no light seen on the positive wire , which is intersected by the magnetic circular surface .
On this surface the shadow of the positive wire is most distinctly traced .
[ Shadows of this description are , in the general case , produced by beams of light starting from all points of the surface of the negative electrode , and moving along the corresponding magnetic curves .
Not even the positive wire deviates such beams of light from their curved paths .
] Nothing at all is changed by a change of magnetic polarity .
When the sphere is turned round its vertical diameter till the horizontal and positive wire passes from the equatorial direction into the axial , the whole surface of the axial circle passing through the negative wire is filled with illuminated magnetic curves .
The positive light starts from the middle of the horizontal wire , and moves round it , within the equatorial plane , towards the negative wire without interfering with the light emanating from this wire .
It constitutes a fine spiral , separated by a dark space from the positive wire , taking its origin in a cusp , and expanding more and more when it approaches to the negative wire .
In changing the polarity of the magnet , instead of the single spiral starting from the middle of the wire , we obtain two such spirals starting from the two extremities of the wire , impelled against the glass of the tube and revolving in the opposite sense .
The phenomena just described and all the various phenomena of the same class may be fully explained by the laws of electro-magnetic action .
For this purpose , we admit that the first element of each elementary current starting from any point of the positive wire is directed towards the negative wire .
This supposition follows from the observed fact , that the positive wire , if parallel to the negative , becomes luminous along its whole length on that side which is turned towards the negative wire .
When acted upon by the magnet , these first elements , bound to the positive wire , are allowed to move freely along this wire .
The single point , or the systern of points , where all the first elements meet before leaving the wire , may easily be determined .
The following elements , subjected to the same force , are entirely at liberty to obey it .
This action may generally be defined thus:-Imagine an element of the elementary electric current starting from any point of a magnetic curve , which connects both poles ; imagine also the molecular currents ( as assumed by Ampere ) within the magnet continued round this magnetic curve .
Then , if the element be perpendicular to the magnetic curve , the full action of the magnet turns it round the curve in a direction opposite to the direction of Ampere 's molecular currents .
If it be not perpendicular , this action is to be decomposed along the normal to the magnetic curve within the osculating plane .
I think it worthy of notice , that the same electro-magnetic laws , applied to magnetic action on an already formed electric currenit , either bound to the conducting wire or free to move in space , equally hold in determining the path of the current when acted upon by the magnet during its formation between the two electrodes .
Thus a moving electric particle , under magnetic action and tending towards the negative electrode , may be regarded as describing a curve , in an analogous way as a projected material point does-acted upon by gravity .
IV .
Electric currents returning on their own path .
When only one of the wires of Ruhmkorff 's apparatus is in contact with one of the electrodes of a long and large exhausted tube , while the second wire is isolated , or , what is preferable , communicates with the earth , an electric current is obtained entering the tube and returning on its own path .
The existence of the two currents is most evidently proved by the magnet , which , acting differently on both , divides the double currenit into two of the same intensity .
This intensity is much increased by touching the tube with the hand at any distance from the electrode which communicates with Ruhmkorif 's apparatus .
A double current of exactly the same description is obtained in a narrow tube , which may be one foot long , communicating with a larger tube , both electrodes of which are connected with the wires of Ruhmkorff 's apparatus .
When the extremity of the narrow tube is touched with the hand , a current starting from the principal tube enters the narrow one , proceeds to its extremity , and finally returns to the principal tube : which is proved by the magnet .
When , through a tube whose shape is represented by the drawing , c &amp; B the discharge was sent from A to B , the current , passing from the narrow tube into the surrounding larger one , was , when it arrived at the extremity of the narrow tube , partly branched off in an opposite direction towards A , and then , changing its course again , moved towards B. There is another case where returning currents are obtained .
When the discharge on its way through a highly exhausted tube passes from a large space into a narrow channel , a part of the current is reflected , and returns on its own path within the larger space which is again proved by the magnet .
Mr. Gassiot first observed and described what he calls " reciprocating currents , " and the separation of such currents by the magnet .
That celebrated philosopher had the kindness himself to show me his experiment , and eveni enabled me to repeat it , by obliging me with one of his fine Torricellian-vacuum tubes .
I do not exactly know his opinion on the nature of those currents ; for my part , I thirnk they are induced currents returning on their own path .
This opinion was supported by the subsequient experiments .
I got a hollow and highly exhausted sphere of glass about 2 inches in diameter , into which no wire entered , and placed it on the iron pieces of the electro-magnet .
On touching the sphere with one of the wires of Ruhmkorff 's apparatus , diffused light was spread through it .
By the excited electro-magnet this diffused light was coneentrated into a luminous stream , which moved along the magnetic curve determined by the point touched , from this point to another one in which the interior surface of the sphere is intersected a second time by that curve , and evidently returned in the same curve from the second point to the first .
When the point where the sphere is touched by the wire falls within the equatorial plane , no part of the magnetic curve in question , which in this case is a tangent to the sphere , enters it .
In this peculiar case , the phenomenon is entirely changed , the light of the induced current constitutes an aseending or descending stream proceeding along the epibolic curve withiln the equatorial plane .
In reversing either the polarity of the magnet or the direction of the discharge , the ascending stream is transformed into a descending one , or vice versed .
But there is no change of the appearance in the general case .
When the sphere is simultaneously touched by the two wires of Ruhmkorff 's apparatus in two different points , we get within it two independent luminous currents showing no reciprocal action on each other ; and it is only when both points belong either to the same magnetic curve or to the epibolic one , that there is but one luminous arch along that magnetic or the epibolic curve .
All this shows that Gassiot 's induced streams are subject to the same laws as the direct currents are , formerly observed by myself .
In all experiments mentioned in this section , the discharge of Ruhmkorff 's apparatus may be replaced by a spark taken from the conductor of an electrical machine .
V. Fluorescence produced by the electric discharge .
Glass shows in sunlight scarcely any kind of fluorescence .
A glass tube , ineluding residual traces of a proper gas , becomes highly fluorescent when the electric discharge is sent through it : a fine green colour appears in the case of common German glass , a fine blue if the glass contain lead .
Hitherto I have tried in vain to get specimens of a different and well-determined chemical composition , which , without doubt , would offer new and curious cases of fluorescence* .
A beautiful fluorescence is obtained by surrounding suitable exhausted tubes , through which the discharge is passing , with a solution of msculine , of fraxine , of sulphate of quinine , &amp;c. If the tubes include residual traces of hydrogen , scarcely any fluorescing light is seen ; if they contain traces of nitrogen , on the other hanid , the fluorescence is very intense .
All depends upon the nature and the density of the gas .
In certain cases , a very faint electric light , scarcely seem by the eye , produces a brilliant fluorescence , especially when the light , if belonging to the negative wire , is concentrated by the magnet .
M. Geissler , in constructing his tubes , first observed ( about eighteen months ago ) the fluorescence of gases , which even continue luminous some seconds after the interruption of the current : further researches will explain this curious phenomenlon .
VI .
The spectra of the electric current in rarefied gases and vapours .
The light of the electric discharge through large tubes is rather too much diffused to give a distinct spectrum .
I made trial , therefore , of sending the discharge through a capillary tube , and fully succeeded .
I got a brilliant luminous line within the tube , of which a beautiful spectrum was obtained by replacing the distant illuminated slit , which Fraunhofer used in his observations , by the self-luminous line .
Afterwards I employed Babinet 's goniometer .
The slit of this instrument was illuminated by the current within the capillary tube , which was placed before it at a distance of about 04 of an inch .
The aperture of the slit could be changed ; but where it is not particularly mentioned , it was seen under a constant angle of 3 ' .
After having interposed the prism of heavy flint glass , the refracted image of the slit , in the general case , was found to be divided into a less or greater number of differently coloured bands , appearing each under the just-mentioned constant angle of three minutes .
Hence it follows that the analysed electric light is com* From the beautiful experiments recently made by E. Becquerel , we may deduce a satisfactory explanation of these pheniomenia .
posed of a certain number of rays , whose refrangibility is a discontinuous one .
The refraction of each ray is determined by the angle between the middle lines of the image of the slit , seen directly , and of the corresponding refracted band .
This angle is independent of the aperture of the slit , and remains the same if the slit be reduced to a physical straight line .
There cannot exist a deflected band smaller than 3 ' ; i. e. no such band appears under an angle less than the angle under which the aperture is seen directly , without the interference of the prism .
This law holds through all my numerous observations of electric spectra .
[ I find difficulty in applying it to the case of the common solar spectrum .
] There are , in many instances , bands observed which are seen under an angle greater than 3 ' ; but generally such bands are resolved into two or more bands of single breadth .
In some instances where the angle in question does not reach the double of 31 , there appears in the middle part of the band a bright line ; larger bands are generally divided by small , well-defined , dark lines .
In order to distinguish the rays of different refrangibility in the different gases , I denoted such a ray by adding to the symbol belonging to the gas the Greek letters a , j3 , y , indicating the succession of the corresponding bands in each spectrum .
Accordingly , for instance , the band Ny , appearing under an angle of 6 ' , is divided by a dark line into two ; the bands Na and NO , having each a breadth of 10 ' , are divided by two dark lines into three single bands .
The bands iga and Sn Cl27y , 5t broad , show a bright middle line .
The space between two bright bands is either absalutely black , or of a greyish tint , or of a faint tint of that colour which is indicated by the position of the space within the spectrum .
With regard to these faint tints , the eye , by the effect of contrast , is commonly a very bad judge of colour , and there may easily be a deception , admitting a succession of colours in the spectrum which in reality does not exist .
I cannot enter here into the details by which I obtained exact measures of the minimum refraction of the different rays .
All measures were taken without deranging the adjustment of the goniometer ; for ascertaining its constancy , each spectrum was compared with the spectrum of hydrogen .
From the angles of refraction , I deduced the indices of refraction , and hence the corresponding lengths of waves expressed in milliornths of a millimetre in order to get absolute numbers immediately comparable with those of others .
The discharge through a capillary tube containing residual traces of pure hydrogen is of a deep red colour ; the spectrum obtained from it consists of only three bright bands:-of a most splendid red one , Ha ; of a bluish-green one , Ho3 , nearly as bright ; and of a fainter violet one , Hy .
The following table contains the angle of refraction 0 , the index of refraction p , and the length of the wave X , corresponding to each of the three rays Ha , Ho3 , Hy , as well as of the dark lines of Fraunhofer , C , F , G , in order to compare their reciprocal position : C -~ -~ Ha. .
570 10`5 C ... .
570 8 ' 5 Hpo ... 59 55.5 F. .
59 55 5 Hy. .
61 43 G. .
61 55 5 Ha ... .
1*7080 C. 117077 Ho. 1P73255 F. 1 73255 Hy .
117481 G. 17498 Ha. .
653-3 C. 656-4 Ho. .
484-3 F. 484-3 Hy. .
433-9 G. 429-1 From this table it results that H13 exactly coincides with F , while Ha and Hy approach very near C and G. The spectrum of pure oxygen was only obtained after several unsuccessful trials to procure proper tubes , the gas being in most cases absorbed by the electrode during the passage of the current .
The spectrum of nitrogen is one of the richest in colours .
Its less refrangible part is of a peculiar nature , having , from the exterior red to the limit of the yellow , seventeen equidistant small dark bands .
Most characteristic are the spectra of carbonic acid ( oxide of carbon ) , iodine , bromium , chlorine , chloride of silicium , chloride of phosphorus , chloride of tin .
The spectrum of the last-mentioned substance is one of the most remarkable .
The colour of the gas within the larger parts of the tube through which RIuhmkorff 's apparatus is discharged , is a dark blue , in the capillary part of the same tube the finest gold-colour , while the light surrounding the negative wire is of a fawn-colour .
[ The finest appearance is obtained with a larger tube containing residual traces of the vapour of this salt , put on the iron-pieces of a powerful electro-magnet ; within the blue light of the discharge numerous , golden flashes are produced , and variously directed by the riagnetic force .
] A piece of metallic sodium withini anl atmosphere of rarefied hydrogen does not alter the spectrum of this gas when at the ordinary temperature ; but when it is heated , a single brillianit yellow band is added to the three original bands of bydrogen .
The middle of the new band exactly coincides with Fraunhofer 's dark line D. The vapours of the nietal are condensed in the cooler parts of the apparatus .
Phosphorus , when treated in the same way , instead of adding new bands to those of hydrogen , at a certain temperature even extinguished the spectrum of the gas .
In the case of mercury , I gave to the tube the shape of the annexed drawing .
The electrodes merely entered the two flask-shaped ends of the tube , where they were covered about half an inch with mercury .
Peculiar banids were obtained without heating the mercury ; when it was heated , the spectrum became most brilliant .
When traces of two gases , not acting on each other , are mixed within a spectrum-tube , the spectra of both are simultaneously obtained .
A result of some importance , following from the researches of which I have here given an abstract , is , that in all such dioptrical researches , where Fraunhofer 's dark lines were used in order to get exact measures , these dark lines may with great advantage be replaced by the middle lines of the new brilliant bands of the gas spectra .
To these bands the most convenient breadth may be given in each particular case by regulating the aperture of the apparatus .
A spectrum-tube of hydrogen , exhibiting three well-defined bright bands , is well suited for this purpose .
During a whole year I made use of such a tube , whicn remained absolutely unaltered .
Every gas being characterized by its spectrum ( even by one of the bands of the spectrum , the position of which is measured ) , we get a new kind of chemical analysis .
In this way only we may ascertainr the residual conitents of the exhauisted tubes , and the chaanges they undergo , either suddenly by the discharge , or gradually afterwards .
Thus , for instance , a spectrum-tube in which traces of vapour of sulphuretted carbon were enclosed , presented most unexpectedly the combined spectra of hydrogen and oxide of carbon .
Hence we conclude that there remained also within the tube some traces of vapour of water , which was decomposed as well as the sulphuretted carbon .
Traces of sulphur were deposited on the interior surface of the tube , while oxide of carbon and hydrogen remained within it .
Nearly all examined combinations of hydrogen with metals , with chlorine , &amp;c. , were almost instantly decomposed .
The spectrum of hydrochloric acid was found to be the combined one of hydrogen and chlorine .
Sulplhur and arsenic were deposited from their combinations with hydrogen , the former constituting fine dendrites , the latter well-defined large banids : the spectrum in both cases was that of pure hydrogeni .
Seleniated hydrogen slhowed within the capillary tube a filne yellow tint , but this tint was converted during the passage of the discharge into a brilliant red one ; the change of colour started from one of the extremities of the capillary tube , and reached the other one after a few seconds .
The spectrum observed during this change of colour was in the first moment a most distinct one , showing , for instance , between 11H and Hfy two similar systems of two brilliant blue bands separated by a black one about double as large ; but this spectrum entirely disappeared , as in dissolving views , being by and by replaced by the spectrum of hydrogen .
A few minutes after the discharge was stopped the red colour turned again i ; nto the primitive yellow one , the gas decomposed by the discharge having been recomposed again .
Thus the same experiment could be repeated any number of times .
[ Similar chemical effects were ascertained in a different way in the case of sulphurous acid , which , if included within a larger tube , shows a fine stratification of narrow violet bands .
When the discharge passes during several minutes , the stratification is altogether changed , the narrow violet bands being transformed into the large clouds of the best Torricellian vacuum tubes .
The primitive colndition of the gas is restored by heating , the electrodes ; but in every new experiment the phenomena became less distinct than they were before .
] I think it most probable that , properly speaking , electric light does not exist ; the light which we see belongs to the gas , rendered incandescent by the thermal action of the current .
Accordingly , in our case , the colour of the appearing light depends upon the nature of the gas and the concentration of the current .
This opinion is strongly supported by the observed fact , that the temperature of the capillary tube increases considerably in some instances .
Considering that this increase of temperature has its source in the heat of the residual gas , which is too small in amouint to be indicated by the balance , this heat being produced by the electric current , and communicated to the heavy substance of the tube ; we have scarcely an idea of the enormous temperature of the gaseons electrode included in the capillary channel* .

