568 Miss D. J. Lloyd .
'97 , Sherrington , C. S. , " Further Note on the Sensory Nerves of Muscles , " ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 ( 1897 ) .
'97\#171 ; , Sherrington , C. S. , " On the Question whether any Fibres of the Mammalian Dorsal ( Afferent ) Spinal Root are of Intraspinal Origin , " ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 21 ( 1897 ) .
'10 , Sherrington , C. S. , and Tozer , F. M. , " Receptors and Afferents of the Illrd , IYtli , and Yltli Cranial Nerves , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 82 ( 1910 ) .
'92 , Tooth , H. H. , " On the Relation of the Posterior Root to the Posterior Horn in the Medulla and Cord , " ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 13 ( 1892 ) . !
10 , Tozer , F. M. See Sherrington and Tozer .
'12 , Tozer , F. M. , " On the Presence of Ganglion Cells in the Roots of Third , Fourth , and Sixth Cranial Nerves , " 'Physiol .
Soc. Proc. , ' July 27 , 1912 , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 45 .
The Osmotic Balance of Skeletal Muscle .
By Dorothy Jordan Lloyd .
( Communicated by W. B. Hardy , F.R.S. Received February 24 , 1915 .
) Fletcher was the first to follow continuously , for any considerable length of time , the change in weight of a muscle immersed in a hypotonic solution.* He found that the muscle at first increased in weight and then decreased .
In isotonic solution the muscle " neither gains nor loses weight .
" This amounts to a definition of an isotonic solution .
The changes in weight of the gastrocnemius or sartorius , the muscles used by Fletcher , are slow , owing to the low value of the ratio of surface to volume .
Very early in this work therefore it was decided to use a thin flat muscle sheet .
The sternocutaneous muscle of the frog was fixed upon .
It reaches its maximal intake from a hypotonic solution in from 5 to 20 minutes according to the concentration of the solution and the state of the muscle .
In the case of so small a muscle it is possible that all the fibres are nearly in the same state at the same time .
This cannot be the case with larger muscles .
The central fibres of , for instance , the sartorius may be irritable whilst the external fibres are in water rigor .
Complex physical and physiological reactions between the fibres must occur and complicate the problem .
An obvious disadvantage of a muscle with a large surface is the magnitude of the error in weight due to variation in the quantity of moisture adherent to the surface .
The surface was always dried quickly by filter-paper before weighing , and the smoothness of the curves of variation ot * ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 30 , p. 414 ( 1904 ) .
The Osmotic Balance of Skeletal Muscle .
weight with time is , I think , sufficient proof that the error was reduced to about 1 per cent , of the total weight .
According to the definition of an isotonic solution given above , such a solution does not , strictly speaking , exist .
A muscle may remain steady within the limit of error of weighing for periods up to half-an-hour , but sooner or later measurable variations of weight appear .
In other words the muscle removed from the body is a changing system .
It is a question whether the apparently steady periods are not really periods of very slow change .
It is noteworthy that different workers have fixed upon solutions of sodium chloride over such a wide range as from 0-6 to 08 per cent , as being isotonic with frog 's muscle ; and the only curve given by Fletcher of a muscle in an isotonic solution shows a steady rise in weight .
A muscle simply removed from the body is called by Fletcher a resting muscle .
The use of the term is inadvisable .
Such a muscle has suffered a certain amount of mechanical disturbance , and in the process of pithing the frog it has been thrown into tetanus lasting a minute or more , at a time when the circulation of blood is defective .
Such a muscle is best indicated by the term untreated muscle .
The weight changes characteristic of an untreated muscle in solutions of the sugars biose , dextrose , sucrose , and raffinose between the concentrations zero to 027 molecular are shown in fig. 1 , which shows a curve for -'\#151 ; 3/ 5MSc/ crose Fig. 1.\#151 ; Abscissae = hours from beginning of experiment ; Ordinates = weight of muscle expressed in percentage of initial weight .
Miss D. J. Lloyd .
014 molecular sucrose.* There is a rapid intake of water followed by loss , the weight often falling much below the initial weight .
This curve should be compared with the curve of change of weight in hypotonic ( 0T0 molecular ) Ringer , given in fig. 2 .
The curve characteristic of a concentration higher than 0'27 molecular is Fig. 2 .
also given in fig. 1 .
The initial intake not only is not present but is not even represented by a variation in the rate of loss .
The relation throughout is simply linear .
The fact that the loss of weight in the more concentrated solutions is in linear relation to time is of interest .
The osmotic equivalent of an untreated muscle exposed to a solution such that it takes in water , clearly undergoes a change since the intake gives place to a loss in weight usually greater than the previous gain .
Does the osmotic equivalent of the surviving muscle spontaneously change or is the change just mentioned due to the exposure to a hypotonic solution ?
The linear form of the curve of loss in a hypertonic solution suggests that the variation of state is due to the influence of the solution .
The linear form of the curve also would imply that the loss is due to a change in the state of the muscle , for if it were merely the establishment of an osmotic balance with a fixed effective mass of solute within the muscle the rate would diminish as the effective concentration within the muscle approached that outside it .
Both above and below a certain concentration the progress of change bears the character , not of the simple establishment of osmotic equilibrium between two solutions initially of different concentration , but of the response of a labile system to an external change of state .
* It must be remembered that a 0'12o molecular solution of sodium chloride ( taken by most writers as isotonic ) is osmotically equivalent to a 0'23 molecular solution of a sugar .
The Osmotic Balance of Skeletal Muscle .
571 The region between 0-21 molecular and 0-27 molecular for the sugars is one in which the initial intake may or may not appear .
The nmscle either at once loses weight after a short period of slight change , or shows a typical initial intake followed by a typical loss .
The variation over the region may provisionally be attributed to a variation in the state of the muscle due to mechanical disturbance .
For instance , in dissecting the muscle out it is subjected to a varying amount of tension , and this will tend to produce passage of fluid from the interior of the fibre to the lymph space or vice versed , and pithing the frog causes fairly prolonged twitching when the blood flow is poor .
If it were possible to secure muscles in a definite physiological state this diffuse zone would probably narrow to a critical concentration , below which the initial intake would occur and above which it would vanish .
Some part of the initial intake of water from hypotonic solution is unquestionably due to the mechanical disturbance of the muscle .
Effect of Oxygen.\#151 ; Fletcher found that the osmotic changes induced in a muscle by activity were removed by exposure to oxygen .
The muscle was put back into the " resting " state , which was characterised by a large intake of water from hypotonic solutions .
My results with the sterno-cutaneous do not readily harmonise with those of Fletcher .
The effect of previous exposure to oxygen is to reduce , and finally to obliterate , the initial intake of fluid even from distilled water .
In fig. 3 are two curves , from a muscle put directly after removal from the body into distilled water , from a muscle placed in distilled water after three hours ' exposure to moist oxygen .
Fig. 3 .
It might be urged that the intake has already taken place from the water vapour during exposure to oxygen .
This is not so .
Muscles in oxygen and water vapour always tend to lose weight .
If any intake does occur it must be so transitory and slight as to have escaped detection .
Exposure to Water Vapour.\#151 ; The behaviour of a muscle immersed in a Miss D. J. Lloyd .
solution must always be open to a variety of interpretations .
The course of events depends not only upon the initial state of the muscle but also upon properties of the surfaces of muscle and muscle fibre considered as semi-permeable membranes .
Further , osmotic relations are complicated by change in the muscle due to the chemical nature of the solution .
Thus , to take salts as examples , the sternocutaneous muscle in molecular solution of sodium chloride usually remains of constant weight for some time , and then loses weight ; in a similar solution of potassium chloride there is an immediate and prolonged rise in weight followed by a fall ; in an isosmotic solution of calcium chloride there is a very small and fleeting initial rise in weight followed by a long and steady fall which may reduce the muscle to 60 per cent , of its original weight .
It is possible , however , to examine the osmotic balance of a muscle by exposing it to water vapour of varying pressure .
The gas space round the muscle then acts as a theoretically perfect semi-permeable membrane so far as non-volatile solutes are concerned .
The method adopted was to suspend the muscle in a flask over a solution of known concentration , the gas in the flask first having been shaken thoroughly with the solution and then left at the desired temperature for some hours in order to attain equilibrium .
The muscle was removed for each weighing , and results therefore are affected by an error due to loss of water during weighing , and loss of vapour from the flask during removal and replacement .
Control experiments with fine plates of agar saturated with water gave a maximal loss of 3 per cent , in four hours .
In fig. 4 are shown curves of the weight changes of muscles suspended in oxygen above the plane surface of ( distilled wTater , ( c ) 0-06 molecular Fig. 4 .
The Osmotic Balance of Skeletal Muscle .
Einger 's fluid , ( d ) 0T25 molecular Einger 's fluid , and in air above 0-13 molecular Einger 's fluid , and ( a ) in hydrogen over distilled water .
In oxygen saturated with aqueous vapour over distilled water the weight may either remain constant for a variable period and then fall , or start falling at once .
That is to say , oxygen obliterates the intake from vapour which occurs in air or hydrogen .
There is here at first sight a contradiction .
If the untreated muscle has a vapour pressure less than that of water\#151 ; as would appear from the curve b , fig. 4\#151 ; why does it not at first condense vapour when in oxygen ?
Oxygen cannot instantly remove the condition which leads to the intake .
A reason may probably be found in the nature of the diffusion column which must be formed at the free surface of the muscle and of each fibre .
At the free surface are water vapour and oxygen .
Consider a superficial shell at the surface .
If the presence of free oxygen within this shell either raises its vapour pressure to that of water , or maintains its vapour pressure at that level , the quantity of water vapour taken up by the shell will depend upon the ratio of the rate of diffusion of water vapour to that of oxygen .
The diffusion column of oxygen progressively retards the diffusion of water vapour , so that , even if their diffusion rates initially were equal , that of the water vapour would rapidly tend to vanish .
An analogous retardation is that seen when a retardation in the dissipation of heat or diffusion of impurities from the face of the solid arrests the solidification of over-cooled liquids.* In hydrogen saturated with water vapour the muscle gains in weight .
Strictly speaking , the gas was air very much diluted with hydrogen and saturated with water vapour .
In this the sternocutaneous maintains its irritability for about six hours .
What change in the muscle is it which is caused by excess oxygen and which raises the vapour pressure ?
The work of Fletclierf and of Fletcher and Hopkins^ suggests that exposure to oxygen reduces the concentration of metabolites ( such as , for instance , lactic acid ) , and so raises the vapour pressure .
This would accord with the view of Eanke and of all who have followed him , that the intake of water by a fatigued muscle is due to the production during activity of chemical substances of low molecular weight .
The secondary fall in weight of muscles due to loss of water was ascribed by Fletcher to a " loss of the semi-permeable character of the fibres , " just as an ordinary osmometer whose membrane is not completely impermeable * Wilson , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' ( 5 ) , vol. 50 .
p. 238 .
t ' Journ. Pliys .
, ' vols .
23 and 28 .
| 'Journ .
Phys. , ' vol. 35 , p. 247 ( 1906-7 ) .
574 The Osmotic Balance of Skeletal Muscle .
to a solute shows first an intake of solvent and later , as the solute escapes , a loss .
If this were the sole cause , then the secondary loss of water would be due , either directly or indirectly , to loss of carbonic acid , for this is the only known solute which can escape into the vapour .
It must be pointed out that these experiments cannot be used to calculate the vapour pressure of the muscle substance because of the error in weighing mentioned above , and because the rise of the vapour pressure of the muscle due to curvature of the surfaces is included .
Summary .
1 .
The sternoeutaneous muscle of the frog , immersed in a hypotonic solution of Einger 's fluid , of biose , dextrose , sucrose , raffmose , or of ISTaCl undergoes first a gain in weight and later a loss .
In a hypertonic solution the weight falls from the start .
2 .
The initial gain in weight in hypotonic solutions or even in distilled water can be reduced and finally suppressed by previously exposing the muscle to wet oxygen .
3 .
Muscles absorb water from an atmosphere of hydrogen and water vapour , but not from one of oxygen and water vapour .
In the latter a fall in weight was observed .

