XXII .
Some farther account of the fossil remains of an animal , of which a description was given to the Society in 1814 .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V. P. R. S. Read June 13 , i816 .
F OR the materials of the former Paper I was indebted to Mr. BULLOCK , who has in his possession the skull , a great number of the vertebra , many mutilated ribs , and other bones of this animal , in a fossil state .
These now brought forward are in the collections of the Rev. Mr. BUCKLAND , of Corpus Christi College , Oxford , and of Mr. JOHNSON of Bristol , who have very kindly allowed me to make use of them upon this occasion .
Mr. JOHNSON has been a collector of specimens of fossil remains for 25 years ; during several summers , he devoted five or six weeks at a time to a close inspection of the cliffs and beach at Lymae .
In the summer of 1814 , with the assistance of a friend , at great personal risk , he dug out of the cliff , the bones of the pectoral fin ; the single bone , he states , was immediately connected with the scapula , and was imbedded in marle ; a representation is annexed .
From these valuable specimens I am enabled , in a great measure , to complete the account of the skeleton of this very extraordinary animal , and , what is of infinitely more consequence , to determine the class to which it belongs .
r I18 ?
The structure of the vertebre explained in the former paper , made it evident , that the animal in its mode of progressive motion resembled fishes ; it could not , however , be determined that it was in all respects a fish , till the articulations of the ribs with the vertebrze , and the bones of which the pectoral fin is composed , had been examined .
In all animals that breathe by means of lungs , each rib , to admit of its being raised and depressed , is articulated both to the body and the transverse process of the vertebrae ; but in fishes , the ribs requiring no such motion , are only connected to the bodies of the vertebre laterally , so as not to interfere with their extensive motion on one another .
In this animal , the ribs are placed in this respect like those of fishes ; they are uncommonly large , and the chatodon from Sumatra , the skeleton of which is described by Mr. BELL in the first part of the 83d vol. of the Philosophical Transactions , is the only fish I know of in which the ribs bear the same proportion to its size .
The form of the scapula , as well as of the bones of the pectoral fin , is entirely different from those of the whale , but bears a resemblance to that of the same parts in the shark , so that it is only necessary to compare them together as represented in the annexed plates , to recognise their similarity .
T.he other circumstances that confirm this skeleton being that of a fish , are the bones in a growing state having no epiphyses , as will appear from the first bone of the pectoral fin , which is represented of its natural size , having none , although when compared with the single vertebra , also represented of its natural size , the fin must have belonged to a growing animal ; the ribs having been grooved longitudinally by pressure , showing the softness and toughness of their texture , the fibrous appearance of the scapula , arising from a mode of growth only met with in the bones of fishes .
The drawings annexed to this and to the former Paper , represent the principal bones composing the skeleton of this very extraordinary animal , and they correspond sufficiently with thoseof fishes , to remove all doubt of its having been a fish , but different from any fishes now in existence ; for although the pectoral fins bear a certain resemblance to those of the shark , there is none between many of the other parts , particularly the long projecting snout and the conical teeth .
In truth , on a due consideration of this skeleton , and of that represented in the 13th vol. of the An. Mus. p. 424 , we cannot but be inclined to believe , that among the animals destroyed by the catastrophes of remote antiquity , there had been some at least that differ so entirely in their structure from any which now exist , as to make it impossible to arrange their fossil remains with any known class of animals .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
The drawings were taken from specimens of bones in very different stages of growth , but undoubtedly belonging to the same species of animal .
PLATE XIII .
Shows the manner in which the ends of the ribs correspond with the impressions on the vertebrae formed to receive them .
The parts of the natural size .
From a specimen of the Rev. Mr. BUCKLAND .
PLATE XIV .
A single vertebra of the natural size : it shows that the 3so P/ 3./ o7o wn 7w'n.:M DC C ( CXVI .
Pla/ e:X,.320O .
4--/ .
kI$ i !
1s / : A , / f , l Il .
2tIi i !
/ ^ j1I " I " , __ X C. ' ' ' ~__c &gt; =_ z.:~ C ... ... ... ... animal grows to a large size , and points out the particular parts of the circumference to which the rib is attached .
LFrom a specimen of the Rev. Mr. BUCKLAND .
PLATE XV .
Fig. i. Shows the scapula in a more perfect state than in the plate belonging to the former Paper ; the spine , which in the other specimen was broken off , in this is in its place , although very nearly detached ; it also shows the bone intermediate between the scapula and the small bones of the fin , with some of these bones on a scale of four inches to a foot .
From a specimen of the Rev. Mr. BUCKLAND .
Fig. 2 .
The scapula and bones of the pectoral fin in the squalus acanthus , natural size .
PLATE XVI .
The bones of the pectoral fin , natural size .
From a specimen of Mr. JOHNsoN .

