l881\gt ; -j On the Spectra .
203 L the arc and Spark at wave-length 4703 does not appear in Angstrom 's It is hard to account for its absence , as it is presen in ire map .
11 1S nVintooranh We have noticed , however , boff 's map and , in at wave-length 4570 Ippe^Ttrongev than that at wave-length 4703 , while the .
reverse is the case when the atmosphere is nitrogen .
It ts possible then that % Tmosphere may , besides the resistance it offers to the discharge , in some degree affect the vibrations o\#163 ; the metallic partic es .
When w !
have made all the simplifications that we can by elimi-naUng as we hope we have done satisfactorily , the hydrogen-magnesium flutinvs and by supposing the whole series of triplets to be harmom-related , and possibly some of the single lines also to be similarly related we have still the fact that the chemical atoms of magnesium are either themselves capable of taking up a great variety of vibia-tions or are capable by mutual action on each other , or on particles of matter of other kind , of giving rise to a great variety o ' ' ia 10 " ' the luminiferous ether ; and to trace satisfactorily th- precise^con nexion between the occurrence of the various vibrations and the circumstances under which they occur , will require yet an extended series of observations^ " \#166 ; -js ssasasssS " itsss Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 12 , 1881 .
[ Plate 2 .
] Ih anticipation of a more detailed communication I beg to lay before the Royal Society some of the results of the reduction of six most widened lines between F and b seen m the spe sun-spots , observed at Kensington between November 12th , 1879 , ami September 29th , 1880 , limiting my remarks solely to the spectrum " Tn the accompanying map , the Fraunhofer lines agreeing m position with the iron lines given by Angstrom and Thalen are entered in the horizon headed " Sun , " in the next are plotted the lines assigned to iron by Angstrom , who used the electric arc in h , s experiments .
In the next horizon are entered the iron lines given y Thalen , who employed the induction coil in his experiments .
In these three horizons the lengths of the lines represent their intensities The individual observations of the sun-spots having been plotted out on another map , the number of times each line was seen was tained , and is entered in the next horizon under " Frequencies in \gt ; an ' Spots .
" " 204 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
[ May 12 , In the next horizon are entered the frequencies with which iron lines were seen in observations of a hundred flames by Tacchini .
iJ both these horizons the lengths of the lines represent frequency .
This map shows that within the region F to there is no line common to spots and flames , if the lines b3 Z\gt ; 4 , which are so frequently seen affected in both spots and flames , be neglected .
If , therefore , we were unacquainted with the spectrum of iron , we should be justified in saying that the spectrum of the prominences was due to one substance and that of the spots to another.* In a paper presented to the Royal Society in December , 1878 I drew attention to the fact that many of the lines most frequently seen in the flames by Young and Tacchini were assigned by Angstrom to the spectra of two so-called elements .
In the map I have entered his results in the horizon arc A. I have since that time had prepared a table , showing the lines having coincident readings in two or more metals , according to Thalen , and in my paper of March 5th , 1879 , " Discussion of Young 's List of Chromospheric Lines , " showed that some of these lines could not be due to impurity .
The lines given coincident by Thalen in his tables , are entered in the horizon spark T. I have confirmed in most cases Thalen 's and Angstrom 's work , and have proved that these lines could not be due to an impurity of the one in the other , as the longest lines of each were absent from the other .
I used the arc , quantity coil , and intensity coil , which are respectively indicated by arc L , spark LQ , and LI , with high dispersion .
Besides confirming Thalen 's and Angstrom 's work , I have been able to add a few more basic lines to the list .
I have already pointed out that the fact of different rates of motion being indicated by different iron lines in the same field of view at the same time , afforded important evidence that we were not dealing with iron itself , but with primitive forms of matter contained in iron , which are capable of withstanding the high temperature of the sun , after the iron , observed as such , has been broken up as suggested by Brodie.f An appeal to the principles of continuity and evolution now enables us to add another argument of equal weight .
If on the cooling of a * It will be observed that the line at 5017'5 given among the flame observations in the map is not recorded as an iron line by either A ngstrom or Thalen .
The way , however , in which it sympathised with the line at 4923 in the flames induced me to look for it in iron with the intensity coil .
I at once found it , and it is as sympathetic with the line at 4923 in the spark as it is in the flames themselves .
Though omitted by Thalen ( most likely accidentally , thougn it may well be that he did not use sufficient tension to bring it out strongly ) , it is recorded as an iron line by other observers .
f Or rather , of course , before " iron " had been formed by condensation .
pros'stoj- \gt ; Soc. VoL.-2 .
ARC ANGSTROM SPARK THALEN FREQUENCIES SUK .
SPOTS frequencies FLAMES PALERMO \gt ; Coil Hi insm t ~ ___ 1881 .
] On the Spectra of Sun-spots .
mass of vapour ultimately to form a star , each reduction of temperate increases the number and complexity of the chemical forms by rendering new combinations possible , these new combinations will contain the Earlier ones in different proportions .
If , for instance , the members of the iron groups are not elementary , they will contain earlier forms , as the salts of calcium contain calcium , which once existed as calcium in the atmosphere of the earth before the salts were produced as the result of a subsequent condensation brought about by e\lt ; \gt ; The^discussion in the accompanying map shows that this is really the case , and that it is the lines which are common to two or more substances which in the main produce the spectra of the lower , and therefore hotter , region of the solar atmosphere .
This natural result at once explains the strange variations from the ordinary spectra which have puzzled observers ever since the new method was introduced .
More than this , these are precisely those lines which have their intensities strengthened when we pass from the arc to the coil .
It is very instructive to note the gradual simplification of the iron spectrum by increased temperature as we pass from the arc through the spots to the flames , and how with this increasing simplicity we find the basic character of the lines increasing , only one basic line on the map having been yet obsei-ved among those lines seen in the arc alone .
Solar spectrum .
Arc Quantity coil , with jar .
" " " Ojar .
Intensity coil , with jar .
" no jar .
Spots .
Prom .
Tacehini .
ft Young .
Reversed in penumbra of spot , August 5 , 1872 .
Young .
Motion* The accompanying figure shows what happens with regard to three adjacent iron lines under different solar and terrestrial conditions , an 1 give it because it indicates that one of the most important inquiries to be taken up in the eclipses of next year and 1883 , will be the 206 Mr. W. Crookes .
[ May 19 , determination of the intensities of the spot and flame lines , and the heights m the solar atmosphere at which they are visible at tba moment of disappearance and reappearance of the sun .
The spectrum of the lower parts of the corona itself should also be observed with a proper amount of dispersion with instruments affording a \#163 ; m\gt ; a+ quantity of light .
S ^eat I stated some time ago to the Royal Society that the iron lines visible in the arc but not in the spark , in all probability owe their existence among the Fraunhofer lines to an absorption going on in the cooler levels , above the flame and spot regions .
A look at the map will show how important it will be ta adjust a : spectroscope on the lines shown in the figure , and contrast their behaviour with the other twelve adjacent arc lines which are prominent neither ; in spark nor spot , nor flame .
It is to be feared that any \#166 ; observer who attempts to do more than such a restricted piece of work as this will doubt his own results .
The time has arrived when minute observations must take the place of mere general ones .
mu i May 19 , 1881 .
u ' - f THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. William Ewart Gladstone was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; \#166 ; L " On Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua/ 5 By William Crookes , F.R.S. Received March 31 , 1881 .
In a paper which I had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society in March , 1879 , * I drew attention to the fact that many substances , when in high vacua and submitted to the molecular discharge by means of an induction coil , emitted phosphorescent light ; and I especially mentioned the phosphorescent sulphides , the diamond , the ruby , and various other forms of alumina , cxystalline and amorphous .
Pure alumina chemically prepared has very strong phosphorescence .
Sulpliate of alumina is dissolved in water , and to it is added an excess * " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 170 .

