" On the Temperature of Man .
" By John Davy , M.D. , F.R.S. L. &amp; E. Having in a former paper shown that , contrary to a commonly received opinion , the temperature of the human body , as measured by a thermometer placed under the tongue , is not a constant one , the author has resumed the inquiry , and gives , in the present paper , the results of numerous observations made with a particular instrument constructed for the purpose , admitting of minute accuracy ( each degree of the scale being divided into ten parts ) , and when used with the precautions pointed out , affording satisfactory indications in many problems which may be proposed relative to the temperature of man , &amp;c. , and confines himself to a small number , offering the information he brings forward only as a preliminary contribution in aid of their solution .
The paper is divided into seven sections .
The first treats of variations of ' temperature during the twenty-four hours .
The author finds from his observations , tiat the temperature is highest in the morning , on rising after sleep ; that it continues high , but fluctuating , till the evening ; and that it is lowest about midnight , ranging on an average from 98'7 to 97'9 .
The second , of variations during the different seasons .
These , he finds , bear some relation to the temperature of the air , but less than might be expected ; which he attributes to the majority of the observations having been made within doors , under circumstances peculiarly favourable to uniformity .
The third , of the influence of active exercise on the temperature .
The effect of this , when not carried to the length of exhausting fatigue , he finds to be elevating ; and that the augmentation is , within a certain limit , proportional to the degree of muscular exertion .
The fourth , of passive , such as carriage exercise .
The effect of this in a cool air , contrary to that of quick walking or riding , would appear to be lowering .
The fifth , of abstinence from all exercise in a cold atmosphere .
This he finds to be depressing in a still greater degree ; sitting in a cold church has occasioned a reduction of temperature from 1 ?
to 2 ?
, the air of the church being from 42 ?
to 32 ? .
The sixth , of sustained attention or exertion of mind .
This would appear to have the effect of raising the temperature , but in a much less degree than bodily exercise .
The seventh , of taking food .
It would appear that a light meal , such as breakfast , alters very little the temperature , whilst a heavy meal , such as dinner with wine , tends to lower it .
The conclusion drawn by the author from his observations , considered in their greatest generality , is , that the temperature of man is constantly fluctuating within a certain limit ; regularly during the twenty-four hours ; and irregularly according to the operation of certain disturbing circumstances .
Should multiplied observations give similar results , he infers that they will admit of many applications , both as regards the regulation of clothing , the warming of apartments , and possibly the prevention and cure of diseases , -conducive alike to increase of comforts and health .
Tables are appended , containing a series of observations extending through eight months , in which not only the temperature of the body is noticed , but also the frequency of the pulse and of respiration , and the temperature of the air .

