296 On the Comparative Anatomy of Flowers .
[ Dec. 22 , II .
" A Contribution to the Study of the Comparative Anatomy of Flowers .
" By Rev. G. Henslow , M.A. , F.L.S. Communicated by Dr. B. W. Richardson , F.R.S. Received December 2 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The author first drew attention to the importance of the class of observations illustrated in this paper ; for by referring all the floral organs back to their vascular cords , or " axial traces , " their real origins could be discovered , whenever their developmental history was incapable of showing them .
Taking the cords as " floral units , " he showed how they can give rise to axes as well as all kinds of floral appendages .
The two elements of which a cord is composed are tracheae or spiral vessels and sieve-tubes , \amp ; c. .
or soft bast .
The significance of the relative positions of these two elements was pointed out , and M. Ph. van Tieghem 's distinction between axial and foliar characters of cords , i.e. , in having the tracheae on the side of the medulla in the former , and on the outside in the latter , was criticised as being by no means constant , especially as regards the floral cords ; inasmuch as a more general rule is for the tracheae of the latter to be exactly central or scattered irregularly in a groundwork of phloem .
After describing the arrangements in peduncles and pedicels in which endogens often have their cords as regularly placed as in exogens , the author explained the different ways by which pedicels of umbells are formed in each class respectively , and how they are supplied with cords from the common peduncle .
He next pointed out the phyllotactical origin of the number of parts in floral whorls , and how the various arrangements of their members become altered in consequence of the union of their cords below , so that the proper angular divergences are not maintained , and parts often become superposed which would otherwise alternate in position .
The union , separation , reunion and fusion of cords , as well as the way in which they may shift their positions , were discussed , and the effects produced by such processes were explained , The results of the multiplication of parts brought about by " chorisis " of a cord were illustrated ; whereby a simple cord of a pedicel could give rise to any number of floral parts , such as the members of different whorls , as in the case of Campanula medium , in which a simple axial cord supplied a sepaline , a dorsal carpellary , a staminal and half a petaline cord : or when a repetition of the same kind occurs , as in double flowers .
1887 .
] On the early Development of Antedon rosacea .
297 Considerable light is thrown npon the phenomena of cohesion and adhesion by this method of investigation ; and especially on the undifferentiated state of organs when in congenital union .
This , if thoroughly understood , completely clears up the difficulties surrounding the interpretation of the " receptacular tube " and the " inferior ovary .
" The investigation into the character and distribution of the vascular cords reveals the true nature of the axile and free central placentations ; in the former case , it shows that with scarcely any exception the axis takes no part in the structure , all " carpophores , " \#171 ; stylopods , " \amp ; c. , being simply the coherent and hypertrophied margins of the carpels .
Similarly the free-central placenta of received its interpretation as being coherent and ovuliferous bases of five carpels which have the upper parts of their margins cohering in a parietal manner and without ovules .
The illustrations are of about sixty genera , and nearly twenty orders .
The author proposes continuing his observations .
HI .
" The early Stages in the Development of Antedon .
" By H. Bury , B.A. , F.L.S. , Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by P. Herbert Carpenter , D.Se .
, F.R.S. , F.L.S. Received December 7 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The materials for this study were obtained from Naples in the winter of 1886-87 .
In the orientation of the larva , J. Barrois ' suggestion ( 'Comptes Rendus , ' November 9th , 1886 ) has been adopted , viz. , that the stalk of the pentacrinoid represents the praeoral lobe of other Echinoderm larvae .
Development .
External Form.\#151 ; Segmentation is regular , and a gastrula is formed by invagination .
The blastopore closes early and the larva gradually elongates .
Ciliation is at first uniform , but soon an anterior tuft of cilia and five ciliated bands become visible , and the intermediate cilia disappear .
The anterior ciliated band is incomplete ventrally , and is either absent in the British form or escaped Wyville Thomson 's notice .
Two ciliated depressions also appear on the ventral surface .
The anterior one ( " pseudoproct " of W. Thomson ) may be called the " prseoral pit ; " and the posterior one ( " pseudostome " ) the " larval mouth .
" The " yellow cells " ( green by transmitted light ) appear

