An Extract of a Letter from Mr. J. Flamsteed Astr .
Reg. and Reg. Soc. S. giving his calculation of the Eclipses of Jupiters Satellites for the Year 1687 .
Together with a Table of the Parallaxes of the Orb , and the Ephemeris of Jupiters Geocentric Place for the same Year ; to which is added an Observation of the Eclipse of the Moon , November .
30 , 1695 .
made at Lisbon , and Mr. Flamsteed 's own Observation of the Eclipse of Jupiter by the Moon on March 31th .
past .
I Give you here a Catalogue of all the Eclipses of ~s Satellites , for the ensuing year 1687 .
and together with it 2 Tables , one of his Geocentrick places , the other of the Parallaxes of his Orbit to every day in the said Year .
This is the 4th .
Catalogue I have got published in the Transactions .
With the 1st .
printed Dec. 1683 .
Num. 154 .
I showed their uses , and how by their help the difference of Longitude , betwixt any two places on the Earth , where they should be observed , might be determined .
And I Taught a Method of finding out within what space on our Globe any of them would be observable : This was done in English for the use of our Country-men .
Next Year in December 1684 .
I repeated those Directions in Latin Num. 165 .
page .
760 .
for the benefit of Foreigners .
In the two Transactions of Decem .
85 .
Num. 177 and 178 , with the Catalogue of Eclipses I described a small Instrument , and showed by the help of it , the said Catalogue , and the Tables of ~ Geocentrick places and Parallexes , the appearances of the Satellites at any time within the compass of that Year might be discovered and delineated ; if therefore the Reader desire to be informed concerning the use of the Catalogue and Tables herewith printed , ed , he may repair to the above-mentioned Transactions .
I shall only add .
That whereas for the two Years last past , the 4th .
Satellit has not been Eclipsed .
As this Year enters , it begins to fall into ~s shadow , and that its Eclipse will again be observable for the 4 next Years .
The first that happens Feb. 2 .
in the Morning will be well worth the attention of the Curious ; in that its duration is the shortest of any that follow it this Year ; both the Ingress and Emersion are Visible with us , as are all those in the Catalogue which are alike marked with an Asterick ( * ) which if they shall be exactly observed , may serve to determine the place of the Node of the orbit of ~s Satellits , and its Inclination to the orbit of ~ , by comparing the observation either with such as wee have already obtained , or as may be made hereafter .
In my last observations , the Eclipses of the 2d and 3d Satellit have anticipated my Calculations something more than I expected in so short a time ; of which I thought it convenient to acquaint the Reader , that hee may attend them one quarter of an hour earlier than the times noted in the Catalogue .
In 2 or 3 Years more we may expect opportunitys of observations , which will afford us such a correction for the error , that the Numbers shall fail no more in them , than in the 1st .
whose Eclipses have not yet differed aboue 3 minutes from the Calculation .
I give you further herewith an observation of the Lunar Eclipse November 30 , 1685 .
made at Lisbon by my kind Friend Mr. Henry lacobs : and another of my own of the Occultation of ~ by the Moon , March the 31th .
this Year 1686 : of which you have published several foreign observations already .

