[ 1035 ] XXIV .
An Attempt at a complete Osteology of Hypsilophodon Foxii ; a British Wealden Dinosaur .
By J. W. Hulke , F.R.S. Received January 16 , \#151 ; Read January 26 , 1882 .
[ Plates 71-82 .
] The dinosauria are peculiarly interesting and instructive on account of the combinations in their skeletons of structures which now only occur separately in those of extant Sauropsida ; and also on account of their forming a link between more specialised fteptiles and Birds.* The need of such an osteology of a Wealden dinosaur as might serve for a type and aid to those who are working out our fossil reptiles , long felt , has lately become increasingly urgent through the discoveries in the United States of large numbers of remains in such preservation and abundance as to make their reconstruction a relatively light task .
Some of the members indicated by these remains resemble certain of our Wealden fauna , of which our knowledge is very imperfect and scanty , so that a strict comparison of the American and British Wealden forms appears likely to throw much light upon the latter.t Unfortunately our own material does not yet exist in a form available for this purpose ; for although a very large number of memoirs have been written on the dinosauria of our Cretaceous and Wealden formations , nothing approaching to a complete osteology of any one of them based on the study of remains recovered from British Cretaceous and Wealden formations has yet been published .
The reason is not far to seek .
In our Wealden beds their remains are usually so scattered , disconnected , and not seldom mutilated , that their identification and reconstruction are exceptionally difficult .
As regards Iguanodon Mantelli a complete osteology may be expected from Belgian workers whenever the magnificent- remains in the Mus4e d'Histoire Naturelle at Brussels , obtained in 1878 from an extension of the Wealden formation at Bernissart , shall have been wrought out\#151 ; a task which I am authoritatively informed is not likely to be accomplished for several years .
But with respect to Hypsilophodon something * Huxley , " Dinosauria and Birds .
" Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , 1870 , p. 12 .
t In illustration of this may be cited the resemblance between Iladrosaurus , Leidy .
, , Cope , and Iguanodon Mantelli ; between Lcelaps and Megalosaurus between Titanosaurus , 8awru8 , Marsh , Gamarasa/ urus , Cope , and Ornithopsis , Seeley ( Syn .
, Hulke , JBothriospondylus , Owen , Chondrosteosaurus , Owen ) ; between Laosaurus , Marsh , and Huxley .
may fairly be expected of English palaeontologists , for its remains occur in a manner quite exceptional\#151 ; large parts of skeletons of this dinosaur , the bones of which are usually well preserved , and often maintain their normal connexions , have been obtained by the Rev. William Fox ( lately deceased ) and by myself.15* A study of these , prosecuted in leisure intervals during several years , enables me at length to offer a connected account of the skeleton , which I venture to hope leaves but few omissions to be supplied when additional materials shall have been acquired .
The following short list contains , it is believed , the titles of all the papers which have been written on this dinosaur :\#151 ; BIBLIOGRAPHY .
1 .
Owen , R. " Description of Part of the Skeleton of a Young Iguanodon ( don Mantelli ) : Monograph of the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden Formation .
" Pal .
Soc. , vol. for 1855 , p. 2 , plate 1 .
2 .
Huxley , T. " On Hypsilophodon Foxii : a New Dinosaurian from the Wealden of the Isle of Wight .
" Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. xxvi .
, p. 3 , plate i. 1870 .
3 .
Hulke , J. W. " Contribution to the Anatomy of Hypsilophodon Foxii " Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. xxix .
, p. 522 , plate xxviii .
1873 .
4 .
Hulke , J. W. " Supplemental Note on the Anatomy of Hypsilophodon Foxii " Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. xxx .
, p. 18 , plate iii .
1873 .
5 .
Owen , R. " Skull and Teeth of Iguanodon Foxii : Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden Formation .
" Supplement No. 5 .
Pal .
Soc. , vol. for 1873 , p. 1 , plates i. , ii .
6 .
Owen , R. Appendix to the above Supplement : " Monograph on Iguanodon Foxii " P. 17 .
Skull .
( Plates 71 , 72 .
) In shape Lizard-like ; the external nostrils are subterminal and divided ; the orbital openings are large , and laterally directed ; the eyeball has a ring of bony plates ; and the temporal fossae are bounded externally by an upper and a lower bar .
The present length of the best-preserved skull in Mr. Fox 's collection !
( Plate 71 , figs. 2\#151 ; 4 ) is 9*6 centims. To this may be added 1 centim. for shortening due to displacement of the snout upon the braincase , and to slight mutilation of the occiput * Gisement .
Remains of Hypsilophodon Foxii have as jet onlj been found in a bed which crops out a short distance west of Barnes High Cliff , and passes under the shore a few yards west of Cowleaze Chine , on the south coast of the Isle of Wight .
The rock varies much often within the space of a few yards .
Generally the upper 3^ feet of it consist of a cap of grey sandstone resting on sandy clay ; this is succeeded by about the same depth of mottled-red and blue clay lying on the bands of sandstone .
The Hypsilophodon remains are almost restricted to the lower half of the bed .
The only other bones ever taken out of it by Mr. Fox and myself represent a small scuted Crocodilian ( f ) and a Chelonian ( Trionyxf ) No bones referable to Iguanodon Mantelli have ever been found by us in this bed .
+ Described in Memoirs 2 , 5 .
I shall refer to this as Mr , Fox 's " type skull .
" ffalke .
Phil. Trans. 1882 .
Plate 71 Prrtoc .
BgWesley ilSL-t Jel. .
1/ Vo at Newm sun \amp ; C ?
mop jfuifce .
'Phil .
Trans. 1\amp ; \amp ; 2 .
Plate 72 .
Mrv .
W.S.'We sley adL nai .
del .
~VVe sb 7STe wm am- \amp ; 0 ?
imp OF HYPSILOPHODON FOXII .
and of the end of the snout , making its total length 10*6 centims. The width at the occipito-parietal crest is 22 millims. ; at the middle of the parietal region it decreases several millims. ; at the fronto-parietal suture it increases to 33 millims. ; between the orbits it slightly contracts ; in front of these cavities it again slightly expands ; and thence lessens to the end of the snout .
This is evidently the skull of an immature individual .
A skull in my own collection ( Plate 71 , fig. 1 ) ( No. 110 Catal. , Coll. Hulke ) was probably 5 centims. longer , and I have seen fragments which indicate that this greater length was sometimes exceeded .
For convenience , first the occiput , then the upper surface , next the under surface of the skull , and lastly the dentition will be described .
Occiput.\#151 ; The occipital plane in Mr. Fox 's type skull ( Plate 71 , fig. 3 ) includes an acute angle with the upper surface , but it is probable that the inclination of these surfaces is exaggerated by the crushing to which the skull has been subjected .
The occipital condyle ( oc .
) , 9 millims. in its horizontal diameter , is more wide than deep .
The margin of the foramen magnum is slightly swollen .
Above the foramen the surface is divided by a median ridge .
A large par-occipital process , 23 millims. long ( .
) , stands out from the sides of the occiput in the level of the upper part of the foramen magnum .
Owing to the damage this part of the skull has undergone , effacing the sutures , the respective shares of the several bones composing the occiput cannot be now fixed with precision , but it may , I think , be safely stated that the supraoccipital enters largely into the foramen magnum , as in Iguanodon Upper surface of skull.\#151 ; The parietal bone ( pa. ) appears to me single , as in Iguanodon Mantellif and I. Prestwichii .
I find no unequivocal evidence of an interparietal suture .
Its two halves meet in an angular crest , which behind is prolonged beyond a line drawn transversely to the long axis of the skull through the meeting of the upper and the posterior surfaces , and overhangs the supraoccipital bone .
From this median supraoccipital process the posterior border of the parietal bends outwards , joining the inner branch of the squamosal , with which it bounds posteriorly the upper opening of the temporal fossa ( Plate 7 L , fig. 2 ) .
Anteriorly the parietal crest declines , and ends at the interfrontal suture .
From a point slightly in advance of the middle of the crest a slight ridge-like elevation of the surface curves outwards to the post-frontal bone .
It marks an expansion of the front half of the parietal bone , as occurs in Iguanodon Mantelli % and I. Prestwichii^ The frontal bones ( fr .
) are remarkably large ( Plate 71 , figs. 1 , 2 ) .
The suture joining their median borders is slightly raised .
Their orbital border also is prominent , which makes the upper surface between the orbits slightly concave in a direction transverse * Hulke , J. W. , Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. 36 , plate xviii .
, fig. 3 .
t Ibid. , vol. 27 , plate xi .
, fig. 3 .
X Ibid. , vol. 36 , plate xviii .
, figs. 1 , 2 , S Ibid. , vol. 27 , plate xi .
, fig. 3 .
to the long axis of the skull .
In a direction coincident with this axis the surface is gently convex .
The post-frontal ( psf'.)(Plate 71 , fig. 2 ) is a large three-rayed bone .
One ray , short and stout , articulates with the postero-external angle of the frontal , and forms the posterior and upper part of the orbital opening .
A descending ray , longer than the former , joins the jugal and completes the posterior border of the orbit .
The third ray , directed backwards , is applied to the outer edge of the anterior branch of the squamosal , and forms the greater part of the upper temporal bar .
The squamosal ( sq .
) ( Plate 71 , fig. 2 ) , by an anterior branch , forms the minor part of the bar just named , and by an inner process which joins the parietal helps to bound posteriorly the upper temporal opening .
It caps the upper end of the quadrate , which is fitted into a recess in its under surface ( Plate 72 , fig. 1 ) .
Behind , it descends some distance on the back of the quadrate , an arrangement which must have given to the squamosal-quadrate joint great stability .
A similar arrangement obtains in Iguanodon Mantelli , and in the Liassic Scelidosaurus.* A prcefrontal and a lacrymal are present ( Plate 71 , fig. 2 ) in the anterior border of the orbit .
The examples I have yet met with have been too mutilated for description .
A jugal ( Plate 71 , fig. 2 ) , a rather wide bar , applied to the posterior third of the upper border of the maxilla , and connected with the descending ray of the , completes the ring of the orbit .
The presence of a quadrato-jugal is indicated by a thin plate abutting against the lower part of the quadrate in Mr. Fox 's type skull ( Plate 71 , figs. 3 , 4 ) .
Intercalated between the jugal and quadrate , constituting with the former a lower temporal bar , its presence in conjunction with the form of the squamoso-quadrate joint would have rendered the quadrate immovable .
The nasals are very large and relatively wide bones ( Plate 71 , fig. 2 ) .
They form a considerable portion of the upper surface of the snout .
Their notched lower end exclusively forms the upper or posterior boundary of the external nares .
From each of its angles it sends downwards an extremely slender process .
Of these processes the inner one , closely applied to the outer side of the anterior or septal process of the prsemaxilla , constitutes with this the septal margin of the nostril ; whilst the outer nasal process descends upon the narial border of the external ascending prsemaxillary process , with which it forms the outer margin of the nostril , as described by Huxley.t Prcemaxillce ( Plate 71 , figs. 1 , 2).\#151 ; There are two prsemaxillary bones .
'That part of the body of the prsemaxilla visible on the outer surface is an oblong vertical plate , the upper border of which is notched by the nostril .
The lower dentigerous border is nearly straight .
In a skull in my collection ( No. 110 Catal. , Coll. Hulke ) the vertical measurement from the narial to the dentigerous border is 11 millims. , and the length of the dentigerous border is 20 millims. The external surface is smooth except quite * Owen , R. , " .Fossil Reptilia of the Oolitic Formation , " part i. , plate v. t Huxley , Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. xxvi .
, p. 4 , plate i. , fig. 1 .
OF HYPSILOPHODON FOXII .
in front , where , as mentioned by Huxley in a description of Mr. Fox 's type skull , it is wrinkled.* In both this and my skull , No. 110 , the extreme end of the snout is missing , so that the actual anterior termination of the prsemaxillae is not certainly known .
From each end of the body of the praemaxilla a strong process ascends in the snout .
Of these the median or anterior process , flattened , three-sided , tapering upwards to a point , ascends , closely applied to its fellow , between the mesial margins of the nasals for about one-third of the length of the snout ( Plate 71 , fig. 2* ) , forming with the descending narial process of the nasal lately described the internarial septum .
The external or posterior praemaxillary process ( + in same fig. ) , wider , flatter , and longer than the anterior , intercalated between the maxilla and the nasal , curves upwards and backwards , resting in a groove in the anterior border of the maxilla , but not united to this by serrated suture .
The dentigerous border in a space of 20 millims. in my skull , No. 110 , contains in separate sockets five teeth , the same number as in Mr. Fox 's type skull .
Since in both the extremity of the snout is abraded , it is just possible that one additional tooth may have been present , although I do not think this probable ; or the ends of the prsemaxillae may have been bent downwards in the form of a beak as Professor Huxley suggests.t Maxilla ( mx. ) ( Plate 71 , figs. 1 , 2).\#151 ; A large bone of rudely subtriangular outline .
The anterior border , convexly curved , is grooved on its outer surface for the reception of the external ascending process of the preemaxilla , as was mentioned in connexion with the description of this bone .
In my skull , No. 110 , this border rises to a maximum height of 30 millims. above the dentigerous margin at the second molar tooth , making here an obtuse angle with the upper border which from this point curves gently downwards to a distance of 15 millims. above the last tooth .
The nearly straight dentigerous border contains in a space of 43 millims. an unbroken series of eleven teeth , one more than in Mr. Fox 's type skull .
In advance of the dentigerous portion of the maxilla a thin tongue-like plate formed by the convergence of the upper and the lower border is prolonged upon the deep surface of the body of the prsemaxilla , nearly if not quite reaching the anterior border of this latter .
The upper margin of this tongue-like process of the maxilla must be in very close proximity to the lower and outer margin of the external nostril .
Behind the hindmost tooth the maxilla narrows abruptly , and it sends backwards a stout three-sided process to which th q jugal is united ( Plate 71 , fig. 1 ) .
Throughout nearly its whole length the outer surface of the maxilla , nearly in the level of the tooth-roots , is pierced by a series of conspicuous foramina as in , Megalosaurus , and Teratosaurus .
The quadrate ( Plate 71 , figs. 3 , 4 ; Plate 72 , fig. 1 ) , a large , stout bone , is antero-posteriorly compressed near its articular ends and laterally flattened intermediately .
* Huxley , ibid. + Huxley , loc. supra cit. 6 it In the fragment of a skull in Mr. Fox 's collection , in which it is but little damaged and has retained its natural relations almost undisturbed , the length of the quadrate is 53 millims. ; its antero-posterior dimension just below the squamosal end is 6 millims. ; at the distance of 21 millims. from this end it is 10 millims ; and just above the mandibular end it is 5 millims. ( the length of the portion of mandible preserved which comprises the entire dentigerous and part of the edentulous spout , given for con-parison , is 96 millims. ) .
The width or transverse diameter of the quadrate near its mandibular end in a smaller mandible is 10 millims. The squamosal articulation of the quadrate was described in connexion with the former bone .
Mandible ( Plate 71 , figs. 3 , 4 ; Plate 72 , figs. 1 , 2 ; and Plate 73).\#151 ; This repeats in miniature that of Iguanodon Mantelli .
It has a spout-like symphysial end ( Plate 72 , fig. 2 ) ; great depth of the dentigerous part ; a high coronoid process from which the upper border falls abruptly to the quadrate joint , and slopes gradually towards the junction of the tooth-bearing and edentulous parts .
The lower border is almost straight .
The articular element is large , and the joint-surface very capacious relatively to the size of the lower end of the quadrate , an arrangement which would have permitted a very free movement of the mandible upon the quadrate .
The angular element appears to be small , it reaches to the posterior extremity of the mandible .
A splenial plate covered the large subdentinal groove .
In a slab in my collection immediately in front of a much-crushed mandible is a thin triangular bone symmetrically bent into a trough-like form appearing not unlike a continuation of the symphysial mandibular spout , one edge of the triangular bone having the same slant as the inclined border of this .
I do not identify this bone with the mandible .
The close proximity of a prse-maxillary tooth to it suggests that it may be connected with the prsemaxilla .
I mention it in order to call attention to it .
Under surface of skull.\#151 ; This is described entirely from my skull No. 110 , as this region in Mr. Fox 's type skull appears to me too damaged to afford unequivocal evidence of the nature of the pieces of bone displayed and of their relations .
The palate is closed in front by the junction in the middle line of the triangular , prsemaxillary , palatal processes ( Plate 72 , fig. 1 ) .
A small anterior palatine foramen is situated in the front of the palatal inter-praemaxillary suture .
The posterior borders of these processes curve inwards , and , meeting in the middle line of the palate , form a backward projecting angle .
This curved border is smooth , non-articular , and it apparently forms the anterior boundary of the palato-nares .
To the angle are attached the two vomers ( v. ) , which are followed by the two pterygo-palatine bars separated by a median fissure .
The palatine bone ( pi .
) , a thin bar 6 millims. wide , is deeply grooved near its union with the pterygoid ( pt .
) .
This last bone has a remarkably stout central part or body , which is traversed obliquely from without and behind inwards and forwards by a prominent ridge , ending in an angular projection at the inner bolder .
The position and the direction of this ridge approximately coincide with OF HYPSILOPHODON FOXII .
those of the row of denticles in the palate of extant Iguanas .
In front , the body of the pterygoid joins the palatine ; behind , it has a stout boss , which doubtless articulated with a basisphenoidal swelling ; and externally it sends off two processes separated by an interspace , of these one ( q.pr .
) passes backwards and outwards towards the quadrate , and the other ( ect.pr .
) outwards towards an ecto-pterygoid which connected it with the maxilla .
Thus , in Hypsilophodon the pterygo-palatine bars are constructed upon a plan not very unlike that of the existing Iguana .
Dentition.\#151 ; The dentinal formula , so far as this is shown by Mr , Fox 's type skull and my No. 110 , is\#151 ; Prsemaxillary ( incisor ) teeth .
Maxillary and mandibular ( molars ) 5\#151 ; 5 0\#151 ; 0 11\#151 ; 11 10\#151 ; 10 ?
But these numbers must be accepted only as an approximation , subject to correction or confirmation by better preserved remains .
The prsemaxillary teeth are cylindric , and the maxillary and mandibular teeth compressed .
Prcemaxillary teeth ( Plate 72 , figs. 3 , 4).\#151 ; A perfect tooth , selected for description , is 10 millims. long ; of this , nearly 4 millims. belong to the crown , which is separated from the root by a slight constriction or neck .
The root contracts slightly towards the crown and towards its opposite end , and is slightly dilated intermediately .
Its cross-section is nearly circular .
Its surface is smooth .
Two teeth which I slit longitudinally had a large pulp-cavity filled with spar extending the whole length of the root into the crown .
The crown is slightly and unequally compressed , the inner contour of its cross-section being more convex than the outer .
Its apex is acuminate and slightly inflected , which makes the outer longitudinal contour convex , and renders the inner contour sinuous , concave near the point and convex near the root .
The outer and inner surfaces meet angularly , forming a low wing , within which , and parallel with it , upon the inner surface is a minute shallow groove .
In very perfect unworn crowns the marginal wing bears a row of minute tubercles just visible in a strong light to the unaided eye .
Both surfaces are highly polished and smooth .
Upon the outer surface a few very minute striae are discernible , and towards the neck both surfaces are beset with exceedingly minute tubercles ( not recognizable as such without a magnifyer ) , the collective effect of which to the unaided eye is an extremely fine wrinkling .
A transverse section through the root of a praemaxillary tooth in position showed it to be contained in a distinct separate socket .
The successional teeth , as usual , descend at the inner side of those in use .
Maxillary and mandibular ( molar ) teeth ( Plate 72 , figs. 5\#151 ; 9).\#151 ; The crowns of these are compressed , their contour is sub-rhomboidal , both surfaces are convex longitudinally and transversely .
The root is long , cylindroid , tapering .
One surface of the crown\#151 ; that towards the mouth in mandibular teeth , and that towards the cheek in maxillary teeth__is sculptured by longitudinal ridges passing from a raised cingulum at the junction of crown and root to the free border of the former .
A smaller and a larger variety of compressed sculptured tooth are distinguishable , the former occurring in the front of the series .
In a nearly perfect tooth of the smaller variety ( Plate 72 , fig. 6 ) the cingulum makes an angle open towards the summit of the crown .
From the nearly axial angle a principal ridge passes to the apex of the cutting border , having on each side of it a secondary ridge , one of which does not quite reach the cingulum .
Between the free ends of the secondary ridges , which give this part of the crown a coarse serration , and the lateral terminations of the cingulum , the sides of the crown are very , finely serrated , repeating in miniature the lamelliform serration of the crown in Igucmodon Mantelli .
In the larger variety of the compressed tooth ( Plate 72 , figs. 7-9 ) , the ornamented surface of the crown is sculptured by a greater number of ridges , which are less unequal in size .
Some of them divide near the cutting border of the crown , rendering this , before being worn by use , finely crenated .
The sides of the crowns of these larger teeth are finely serrated , as are those of the smaller variety .
The contour of the crown of the larger is rounder and less angular than that of the smaller teeth .
The unridged surface of the crown of both varieties has a few very minute inconspicuous striae .
All crowns which project fully above the level of the outer border of the alveolar process bear marks of wear .
They are obliquely ground .
The sculptured surface , having a thick enamel , lasts longer , and forms a cutting edge which , at first , is serrated by the cross-sections of the longitudinal ridges , and later becomes simply sinuous as these ridges decline in height in the level of the lateral angles of the crown .
The worn surface of a large crown is usually marked by slight elevations not deserving the name of ridges passing from the inner to the outer surface , and the fine attritional striae discernible in all worn teeth have this direction , suggestive of grinding lateral movements of the mandible in addition to gliding and hinge-movement in one plane .
By the time the crown is worn to the level of the alveolar border of the jaw , the tapering cylindroid root has been nearly absorbed , so that very slight force would suffice to detach the remnant of a tooth in this condition .
The compressed ridged teeth are not so separately enclosed in distinct sockets as are the cylindric prsemaxillary teeth , but as in Iguanodon Mantelli and I. , the outer wall of the dentary groove sends inwards partitions which separate the roots , and nearly if not always quite reaching the inner wall of the groove must have afforded the teeth very firm support .
The successional teeth are evolved in cavities at the inner side and intermediately of those in wear ( Plate 72 , fig. 2 ) .
The structure of the skull shows a combination of Lacertilian and Crocodilian characters with a great preponderance of the former .
The bone enters into the ring of the foramen magnum as it does in Lizards and in Birds , but not in Crocodiles , in which it is excluded from this opening by the union of the exocciOF HYPSILOPHODON FOXII .
pitals .
The divided frontal is another Lacertilian trait : in Crocodilians the primitive di vision of the frontal disappears before the young leaves the shell.* The form and proportions of the nasals , and the prolongation of their anterior angles as an external and an internal narial process are imitated in some extant Lizards , but not , I think , in any Crocodilians .
The division of the anterior nares and its method , as in saurus , are also Lacertilian features ; the septum nasi mainly consists of the ascending median praemaxillary processes ( closely imitated in Hatteria , in which the prae-maxilla is paired ; confluent in other Lizards where the primitive separateness of the praemaxillae is early lost ) which scarcely exist in Crocodilians in which the bony septum of the external nostril , when present , consists almost exclusively of the intruded tapering anterior ends of the nasal bones .
The exclusion of the maxilla from the outer boundary of the external nostril , cited by It .
Owen as a Crocodilian character , !
is perhaps apparent and not real , because the maxilla does not cease at the posterior margin of the external ascending praemaxillary process , but it is prolonged forwards beneath this and would become visible in very close proximity to the outer and lower part of the nostril if this process were removed .
The lower temporal bar , a Crocodilian feature , is present in Iguanodon Mantelli , in the Liassic Scelidosaurus , and one extant Lizard\#151 ; Hatteria .
The fixity of the quadanother Crocodilian trait , is not attained by its being wedged in between the skull-bones , as in Crocodiles , but is due to the form of the squamosal articulation and the presence of the lower temporal bar .
The anterior position of the palato-nares ; the form , proportions , and connexions of the pterygo-palatine bars ; and the median cleft in the palate are all Lacertilian characters not present in Crocodiles .
The occurrence of teeth in the praemaxilla of simpler form than those in the maxilla and mandible , and the smaller size and minor complexity of the crown of a small number of the foremost teeth of the maxillary and mandibular series are highly interesting as foreshadowing the divisions of the teeth in higher Vertebrates .
In form , in attachment , and in their mode of succession , the maxillary and mandibular teeth resemble those of Lizards , and not those of Crocodiles .
Vertebral column.\#151 ; No remains have yet been recovered which demonstrate the exact number of vertebrae in the prae- and post-sacral segments of the column .
The sacrum certainly comprises five vertebrae .
Professor It .
Owen , in his account of " Part of the Skeleton of a Young Iguanodon ( I. Mantelli ) , preserved in the British Museum , Cat. No. 39,460 , suggests that the most anterior of a continuous chain of seventeen praesacral vertebrae corresponds to the fourth cervical vertebra of an Alligator , Professor Huxley , referring to the same vertebra , finding its capitular process in the level of the neuro-central suture , as in the eighth cervical vertebra of a Crocodile , * Miall , ' Skull of the Crocodile , ' p. 32 .
t Owen , R. , " Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden Dinosaurns , " Supplement 5 , p. 6 .
+ Owen , R. , " Monograph on the Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden Formation , " Pal .
Soc. , vol. for 1855 , p. 2 , t. 1 .
suggest\#174 ; that there may have been seven or eight vertebrae between the most anterior preserved in No. 39,460 and the head.* The correctness of this inference is demonstrated by the part of a skeleton in Mr. Fox 's collection represented in the accompanying sketch ( Plate 73 ) .
In close proximity to the mandible and shoulder-girdle is a continuous chain of nine vertebrae , proved cervical by the position of the capitular process ( parapophysis ) .
In the eighth vertebra in this chain this process is in the level of the neuro-central suture , and therefore in the same position as in the most anterior of the seventeen vertebrae displayed in No. 39,460 , and in the eighth cervical of Crocodiles .
If to the seventeen vertebrae in this latter fossil seven are added for those missing from its neck , and we allow two or three for those in the loins hidden by the foot , the number of praesacral vertebrae will amount to twenty-seven or twenty-eight at fewest , exclusive of the atlas , which is still unknown .
Of this number , reckoning as cervical all in which the capitular process is wholly or partly on the centrum , nine , exclusive of the atlas , belong to the neck .
Of the others , if we reckon as lumbar all in which a short vertebral riblet , unconnected with the sternum , is attached by a single articulation to the end of a transverse process , six at fewest should be referred to the loins .
The remaining ten or eleven belong to the dorsal region .
The number of caudal vertebrae was considerable , probably not less than fifty .
Cervical vertebrae ( Plate 73 , cv.cv ' .
; Plate 74 , figs. 1\#151 ; 8+).\#151 ; These are opistho-coelous .
The contour of the anterior articular end is roughly shield-shaped ; it is a rhomboid figure with the upper acute angle cut off and indented by the neural canal .
The vertical and horizontal diameters of this end in the most anterior vertebra of No. 39,460 Brit. Mus. Cat. ( Plate 74 , fig. 4 ) are respectively 13 millims. and 10 millims. In a corresponding vertebra in my own collection ( Plate 74 , fig. 7 ) they are 14 millims. and 11 millims. The sides of the centrum are deeply pinched in below the neuro-central suture ; an expansion of the centrum towards the articular ends makes them concave in the longitudinal direction ; below , they converge to a somewhat acutely angular keel .
All these vertebrae have a capitular process on the side of the centrum near its front .
The position of this process ascends on the side of the centrum in passing from the front to the root of the neck .
All have also a tubercular process ( diapophysis ) on the neural arch , placed just external to the praezygapophysis .
The articular surfaces of the praezygapophyses are directed upwards and inwards .
The spinous process is quite dwarfed in the anterior cervical vertebrae , but at the root of the neck well developed .
The postzygapophyses are a pair of long branches diverging from the back of the neural arch having the articular surface on the under side of their free end .
* Huxley , Th. , Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. xxvi .
, p. 3 , plate i. 1870 .
t These vertebrae are better illustrated by the Mantel-Bowerbank fossil ( No. 39,460 Brit. Mus. Catal. ) than by any others I have seen .
They are figured by R. Owen in " British Fossil Reptilia , " Pal .
Soc. , vol. for 1855 , plate i. , figs. 2 , 3 , 4 .
OF HYPSILOPHODOX FOXIL Dorsal and lumbar vertebrce* ( Plate 74 , figs. 11 , 12 ; Plate 76 , fig. 2).\#151 ; In passing from the front to the root of the neck , the convexity of the anterior and .
the concavity of the posterior articular end of the centrum decrease .
Centra in the anterior dorsal region have their anterior articular end plane or slightly concave , and their posterior end somewhat more concave , but in much less degree than in the neck .
With diminished angularity of the inferior keel , and the removal of the parapophysis from off the centrum , the contour of the articular ends of this becomes less shield-shaped and more rounded , until in the posterior dorsal region and in the loins it is approximately circular .
The depression so marked in the sides of the cervical vertebrae below the neuro-central suture decreases in approaching the trunk , and from the mid-dorsal region to the loins the sides of the centrum are approximately flat in the vertical direction .
In the longitudinal direction they are rendered slightly concave by an expansion of the centrum towards its ends .
The transverse processes , in the anterior dorsal region stout and relatively long , have a capitular costal facet on their front edge where they spring from the neural arch , and a tubercular facet at their free end .
Towards the loins the capitular facet approaches the tubercular , and in the lumbar vertebrae the relatively short stout transverse process has only a terminal facet .
The average length of the dorsal and lumbar centra in No. 39,460 Brit. Mus. Coll , is 17 millims. ; that of the vertical diameter of the articular ends is 14 millims. ; and that of the middle of the centrum is 12 millims. The three last lumbar vertebrae in a piece in my collection ( No. 110 ) are each 20 millims. long .
The terminal lumbar vertebra is distinguished from the others by its greater bulk , and particularly by the enlargement of the posterior end of the centrum in adaptation to the corresponding surface of the first sacral with which it is often found anchylosed ( Plates 75 and 76 , fig. 2 ) .
Sacrum ( Plate 74 , fig. 9 ; Plates 75 and 76).\#151 ; This comprises , as already stated , five vertebrae .
These and the terminal lumbar in mature individuals are usually anchylosed together , with sometimes , but less frequently , I think , the first post-sacral vertebrae .
All the five sacral vertebrae are smaller than the terminal lumbar .
The first sacral is distinguished from the others by the great lateral expansion of the front end of its centrum ( Plate 75 , 1 s. ) .
The shape of the second sacral centrum is cylindroid ; it is constricted at the middle and expanded at its ends , which makes the lower outline of the sacrum sinuous .
The swelling that marks the junction of the anchylosed centra is not a uniformly tumid ring , but is greater where the inferior and lateral surfaces meet , forming here a pair of small knots , as in Iguanodon Mantelli .
Interiorly , instead of being angulated through the inclination of the sides , as in I. Mantelli , the sacral centra in Hypsilojohodon have a shallow median groove .
The lower transverse processes are attached laterally at the junctions of the centra , they pass directly outwards , and their outer ends expanding antero-posteriorly coalesce and form a series of loops These are well illustrated by the Plate referred to in the preceding page .
or sacral foramina .
The root of each lower tranverse process is therefore connected with two centra , that of the first transverse process , stouter than the others , being attached to the terminal lumbar and the first sacral centrum .
The construction is that which is usual in the dinosauria .
The length of the sacrum represented in Plate 75 of one in Mr , Fox 's collection is 8*3 centims. , and the average length of the centrum is 17 millims. The length of the last lumbar vertebra in another skeleton in the same collection is 18 millims. , the diameter at the constricted middle is 14 millims. , and that of the expanded posterior end is 18 millims. The superior bulk of the last lumbar centrum is well shown in two sacras in my own collection .
Dimensions of centra in two sacra .
Horizontal Horizontal Horizontal Length .
diameter at diameter at diameter at front .
middle .
posterior end .
1 .
In Mr. Fox 's Collection.\#151 ; 1st sacral 15 21 10 15 " 2nd " 15 15 10 15 2 .
In No. 110 Coll. Hulke.\#151 ; 1st sacral 17 19 13 16 " " 2nd " 17 16 14 . .
In the sacra to which reference has been made , the last centrum is too mutilated for description .
One from a larger individual is 22 millims. long .
Its anterior articular end , marked with the diverging striae present before anchylosis , has a vertical diameter of 14*5 millims. , and a horizontal diameter of 19*5 millims. The shape of the centrum is cylindroid .
A mutilated transverse process , preserved on the left side , is attached to the upper part of the side of the centrum , at its front , for a space of 13 millims. , and since the sutural surface of the process projects 3 millims. in advance of the anterior articular end of the centrum , it must to this extent have rested on the centrum in advance .
The fifth sacral nerve escaped behind the transverse process through the intervertebral foramen between this and the first caudal vertebrae .
The prsezygapophyses look upwards , and slightly outwards .
The spinous process , 21 millims. long and 14 millims. wide at its free end , has a slight backward slant .
Post-sacral or caudal vertebrae ( Plate 74 , figs. 9-13 ; Plate 75).\#151 ; The first is known by the absence of chevron-facets , and the second by the presence of a single facet , the first chevron bone being articulated with the second and third caudal vertebrae .
In shape the two foremost caudal centra resemble the last sacral , but the lateral surfaces below the transverse process are more flattened , which makes the third and succeeding centra less cylindroid .
Transverse processes are present in about the first fourteen vertebrae , counted from the sacrum .
Those of the first caudal are small and short , they project from the side of the centrum immediately below the neuro-central suture .
Those of the second caudal vertebrae are longer and flatter .
The length of the transverse process increases until about the eighth vertebra , behind which it rapidly shortens OF HYPSILOPHODON FOXIT .
and becomes an inconspicuous tubercle which soon disappears .
Where this occurs the length of the centrum is slightly increased .
Its shape also becomes cylindroid , with a contracted middle and swollen ends , flattened slightly , laterally , and interiorly , where also an oblique facet at each end marks the attachment of the chevrons ( Plate 74 , fig. 13 ) .
The spinous processes and chevrons are reduced much more slowly than are the transverse processes .
In a rudimentary form they persist to the end of the tail ; where most developed , in the front half of the tail , the spinous processes have the shape of flat oblong blades .
The chevrons are longer than the spinous processes ; their articular end is stout , and when well preserved is wedge-shaped , the anterior facet of the wedge beiug slightly the larger ; their free end is expanded and flattened ; and intermediately their shaft is contracted and slender .
In the part of the tail shown in Plate 7 4 , fig. 13 , the average length of the centrum is 25 millims. , that of the spinous process is 35 millims. , and that of the chevron bones 51 millims. The longitudinal streaks in this figure are ossified tendons .
The changes of shape of its articular ends and of the length of the vertebral centrum , in passing from the cranial to the caudal end of the centrum , add another to the already numerous refutations of the dictum which for many years was a great hindrance to the reconstruction of the dinosaurian skeleton , viz. : that the shape of its ends and the length of the centrum are constant throughout the column .
The double costal articulation is repeated in Crocodilians , but not the opisthocoelous form of the centrum in the neck and front of the back .
The great depth of the tail is probably in adaptation to swimming .
Ribs.\#151 ; Ribs ( pleurapophyses ) are borne by all the prsesacral vertebrae .
( This statement does not apply to the two first vertebrae , respecting which information is still wanted .
) In the neck the riblets are short , their vertebral end is forked , the branches lie in a nearly vertical plane , and they articulate with corresponding upper and lower vertebral transverse processes .
Their ventral or free end is extended antero-posteriorly .
In the anterior dorsal region the capitular branch is long .
Near the middle of the back the tubercular branch is reduced to a mere tubercle placed where the long , slender capitular branch or neck and the shaft of the rib join .
Ribs from the posterior dorsal region show a reduction of the length of the neck with an approximation of the head to the tubercle , until in the loins both blend in a single terminal articular facet attached to the end of the transverse process .
The form and the arrangement of the ribs in the neck and back are closely repeated in extant Crocodilia , but in the loins there is a small peculiarity to which allusion has been already made\#151 ; the anchylosis of the rib ( pleurapophysis ) with the end of the transverse process , their junction being marked by a nodal swelling .
I have seen this in three skeletons of adult Hypsilophodon , but not in those of Crocodilia .
6 s mdccclxxxii .
Shoulder girdle and forelimb .
Sternum.\#151 ; The breast-bone is broad and shield-shaped ( Plate 73 , st. ) .
Its two halves are so inclined that they make a blunt median angle or ridge along the inferior surface , which starts from the bottom of a deep notch that indents the anterior border .
The lateral margins bear in front the articular surfaces for the coracoids comprising a large segment of a circle .
The chord of this in the fully-grown skeleton shown in the accompanying sketch is now 30 millims. , but originally it measured somewhat more as it is somewhat mutilated posteriorly .
Behind the coracoid surface are the marks of attachments of ribs .
Of the number of these we have as yet no certain information .
Coracoid ( Plate 73 , c. ; and Plate 79 , fig. 1).\#151 ; This is a flat bone of a simple , rudely crescentic shape .
Its curved border in the articulated skeleton , mesial , is adapted to the corresponding surface of the sternum .
Its outer border , much stouter than the mesial , consists of an articular part in front , and of a deeply incurved non-articular part behind .
The articular part is subdivided into a thinner anterior segment firmly articulating with the scapula , and a stout expanded posterior part\#151 ; the coracoid component of the glenoid fossa .
In well-preserved examples a small chink passes a short way into the body of the bone from the point where these two sub-divisions of the outer border meet , and just in front of this fissure is a perforation as in Iguandon Mantelli .
The width of the fully-grown coracoid represented in Plate 73 , c. , measured from the middle of the outer border to the corresponding point in the inner border , is 45 millims. ; and the length of the glenoid surface is 27 millims. Scapula ( Plate 73 ; and Plate 79 , fig. 1).\#151 ; This is a long , thin , narrow , slightly recurved bone , having a general likeness to that of Iguanodon Mantelli .
Its dorsal end , in uninjured specimens , is expanded antero-posteriorly , its shape is not symmetrical , the backward extension being greater .
The anterior border is sinuous , convex in its dorsal , and concave in its ventral half ; and near the ventral end is an acromial projection , a repetition on a small scale of that shown in the scapula referred to I. Mantelli in the collection of J. B. Holmes , Esq. , of Horsham , figured by B. Owen in his " Fossil Beptilia of the Wealden Formation , Monograph Iguanodon , " t. xiv .
From this projection a ridge curves upwards and backwards across the outer surface ending at the upper or posterior lip of the glenoid fossa .
The outer surface below this ridge is depressed , whilst that above it is slightly convex .
The posterior border is slightly concave .
At about two-thirds of the distance between the dorsal end and the glenoid fossa a slight projection breaks the otherwise regular curve of the posterior border ( Plate 73 ) .
The ventral end of the scapula presents in front a relatively thin part sdturally joined to the coracoid , and behind this a smooth articular part which with the corresponding part of the coracoid composes the glenoid fossa .
The length of the scapula of an immature individual in my collection ( No. 98 Cat. , Coll. Hulke ) ( Plate 79 , fig. 1 ) is 86 millims. , being nearly that of the humerus ; the width of its OF HTPSILOPHODON FOXII .
dorsal end is 26 millims. , that of its ventral end is 32 miHims .
, of which 10 millims. belong to the glenoid , and 22 to the coracoid segment ; but these numbers have only an approximate value as the bone has been injured by pressure .
Some of the dimensions of the scapula represented in Plate 73 , are as follows :\#151 ; Length from dorsal end to acromion 14*3 centims , , length of glenoid surface 2*8 centims. , and that of coracoid border about 3 centims. Forelimb.\#151 ; The structure of this is still incompletely known .
I have as yet only recovered very mutilated remains of it.* Humerus ( Plate 73 ; and Plate 79 , figs. 1 and 2).\#151 ; This is nearly as long as the scapula .
Its proximal end is broadly expanded , convex tranversely on its dorsal aspect , and concave in the same direction in the ventral surface .
The proximal end bears , nearly at its middle , a smooth sub-spherical articular surface from which a ridge-like swelling passes some distance down the dorsal surface of the bone .
The anterior , radial , border swells into a stout crest which renders its outline convex in the upper third of the bone .
The contour of the posterior border is a hollow curve .
The shaft seems to be slightly twisted owing to a small change in the direction of its surfaces .
The distal end is condylarly divided .
Behind , the condyles are separated by a wide shallow groove which ascends some distance on the shaft .
The length of the humerus figured in Plate 79 , fig. 1 , is 13*6 centims. Ulna ( Plate 79 , fig. 3).\#151 ; Its proximal end is larger than that of the radius and it seems to have well-formed olecranon .
The shaft and the distal end are slender .
Its length slightly exceeds that of the radius .
Radius ( Plate 79 , fig. 3).\#151 ; The length of this bone is about 12*5 centims. in a skeleton in which the humerus is about 13*6 centims. long .
The breadth of its carpal end is 21 millims. The expanded carpal end is the chief support of the manus .
Manus ( Plate 7 9 , fig. 3).\#151 ; A proximal row of carpalia appears to consist of a large os radiale and a smaller , ulnare .
The metacarpals are much smaller than the metatarsals .
The ungual phalanges resemble in form those of the pes , but are smaller than these .
In its extreme simplicity the shoulder girdle of Hypsilophodon differs from that of most extinct Lizards .
Its coracoid , in respect of its simple crescentic form , devoid of bony procoracoid , agrees with that of every other dinosaur yet known .
It is imitated in Hatteria and in Chameleo , and is very unlike the long , narrower coracoid of Cro-codilians .
The sternum , in respect of its shape , resembles the ( cartilaginous ) sternum of Crocodiles more than that of Lizards , except The scapula , as regards its length and narrowness , closely agrees with that of Iguandon Mantelli , wichii , and Megalosaurus , and differs from that of Hylceosaurus , of , of Crocodilia and extant Lizards except Chameleo .
The humerus in the greater expansion of its ends and the slenderness of its shafts resembles that of a Lizard more than that of a Crocodile .
The inner tuberosity of the proximal end resembles that in * See postscript .
6 s 2 Tguanodon Mantelli , and in Birds .
The ungual phalanges in shape resemble those of .fotia pes us it is now known they really do m the restoration of the manus of this dinosaur in the " British fossil Beptilia " being based on mistaken identifications .
Hip-girdle and hind limb .
Ilium ( Plate 77).\#151 ; This has the elongated form which characterises this bone in the Iguanodontidse .
Its prseacetabular process , extremely long and slender , extends forwards upon the loins overhanging the posterior lumbar ribs .
The acetabular arc ends anteriorly in a relatively slender pubic process directed downwards and forwards , and behind it is terminated by a low swelling which marks the attachment of the ischium .
The lower border of the broad post-acetabular part , nearly straight , is slightly inflected , and is indented by a longitudinal groove .
Ischium ( Plate 75 ; Plate 76 ; Plate 77).\#151 ; This bone was first identified by Professor Huxley in the British Museum fossil No. 39,460.* * * S It had before been considered to be a tibia , t It is the same bone which in Iguanodon Mantelli passed for so many years as clavicle .
J It has the form of a long slender bar directed backwards parallel with the lower border of the post-acetabular part of the Ilium .
That this is its true direction may be seen by its impression in the stone below the left Ilium in the annexed sketch made several years ago of a fossil in Mr. Fox 's collection ( Plate 77).S The proximal end of the ischium is expanded .
It has above a stout process , which united to a corresponding process on the Ilium behind the acetabulum , completed below and posterioly the circle of this articular hollow .
This acetabular process is borne on a narrow part or neck , the axis of which makes an angle of about 90 ' with the long axis of the bone .
Below the acetabular process and the neck is a wide rudely quadrilateral expansion directed downwards , the lower curved border of which contributes the lower margin of the acetabulum .
Behind this expansion the bone rapidly contracts and continues narrow through about half its length when it again widens .
Nearly midway between its acetabular and its ventral or lower end is a lip-shaped out-turned obturator process ( Plate 75 , ob.p .
) , against which rests the rod-like part of the os pubis .
The lower or ventral ends of the Ischia seem to be symphysially united .
Pubis.\#151 ; The form of this bone repeats in miniature that of I. Mantelli ( Plate 75 ; Plate 76 , fig. 1 ; and Plate 77 ) .
It has a stout short part , or body , with a smooth articular surface , which in front is attached to the pubic process of the , and behind meeting the Ischium completes below and in front the circle of the acetabulum .
From * Huxley , Quart .
Journ. Geol Soc. , vol. xxvi .
, plate i. , fig. 3 .
1870 .
t Owen , R. , " Fossil Reptilia of the Wealden Formation , " Pal .
Soc. , vol. for 1855 , p. 2 , t. 1 .
t Owen , R. , ' Fossil Reptilia of the Cretaceous Formation , ' p. 105 , plate xxxiv .
S This figure shows the right Ischium , which has been uncovered since the above was written .
OF HYPSILOPHODON- FOX1I .
this part a broad bar*like plate extends forwards and downwards , and an extremely slender long rod passes backwards parallel with and supported by the corresponding ischial bar , which it nearly equals in length .
I cannot certainly say that the ventral ends of the pubis were symphysially joined , but the appearances make this probable .
The bottom of the bony acetabulum was defective .
Femur ( Plate 75 ; Plate 78 ; Plate 80).\#151 ; This is a much stouter bone than the humerus .
Its proximal end has a sub-globular head borne on a stout short neck , the axis of which makes nearly a right angle with that of the shaft ; and a prominent outer trochanter between the upper part of which and the shaft is a deep narrow fissure .
Behind the head is a small pit , and in front between the neck and the outer trochanter is a larger depression .
The distal end has the usual condylar shape .
The outer condyle is longer and stouter than the inner .
Both project strongly backwards , and are here separated by a wide deep intercondylar groove , the outer border of which is formed by a narrow ridge which divides the intercondylar groove from a deep but much narrower groove in which the upper end of the fibula moved , the ridge itself being received in the interval between the fibula and the outer tibial condyle in flexion of the leg on the thigh .
The anterior intercondylar groove is wide and shallow , contrasting strongly in these respects with the deep narrow , almost tunnel-shaped , anterior intercondylar groove in Iguanodon , as known in I. Mantelli , I. Prestwichii , and I. Seelyi .
The shaft of the femur appears to be twisted owing to the alteration in the aspect of its surfaces , that which at the proximal end is external becoming at the distal end anterior .
It is also bent , its upper longitudinal outline being a convex curve .
The cross-section at the middle is rudely prismatic .
Nearer to the upper than the lower end of the bone at the inner and posterior aspect of the shaft is a compressed triangular , in the best-preserved specimens , remarkably long-pointed inner trochanter , the apex of which is directed towards the distal end of the bone .
At the inner side of this trochanter is a pit .
Tibia ( Plate 80 , fig. 2 ; Plate 81 , fig. 1).\#151 ; This bone in Uypsiiophodon is longer than the femur , the opposite of that which obtains in Iguanodon .
A nearly perfect tibia of 1Hypsilophodonmeasures 23*25 centims. long , the length of the femur of the same skeleton does not exceed 18 centims. The proximal end of the tibia shows a division of the articular surface into two condyles , which project posteriorly and are here separated by an intercondylar groove .
A large prsecnemial crest projects from the upper part of the shaft in front of the external condyle .
The cross-section of the shaft is prismatic .
The distal end is expanded and shaped into two malleoli , of which the outer and posterior is longer and thinner , and the inner and anterior is shorter and stouter .
These are separated in front by a wide shallow groove , which ascends a slight distance on the anterior external surface , and below ends behind at a salient angle where the inner and posterior surfaces meet .
The outer border of the distal half of the tibia is impressed in its anterior aspect by the fibula which here lies upon it .
The axis of the shaft is twisted in such a manner that a plane laid through the long diameter of the proximal end cuts at a large angle another plane laid through the long axis of the distal end ( Plate 80 , fig. 8 ) .
The following are some of the dimensions of a fully grown tibia :\#151 ; Extreme length , 22*25 centims. ; breadth across the proximal condyle , 3*35 centims. ; from the back of the inner condyle to the most prominent point of the praecnemial crest , 5*7 centims. ; breadth across the malleoli , about 4*6 centims. Fibula ( Plate 77 ; Plate 78 ; Plate 81).\#151 ; The upper end is flattened .
It rests against the outer surface of the outer proximal condyle of the tibia behind the great praecnemial crest .
In flexion of the knee it is received in a groove on the outer femoral condyle , as already mentioned .
The shaft , sub-prismatic , rests in its lower half on the anterior surface of the tibia , just within its outer border .
Its distal end is stout .
It articulates with the anterior of the two divisions in the upper surface of the calcis .
Pes.\#151 ; The tarsus comprises two distinct bones corresponding to those of the proximal row of ossa tarsalia of other Vertebrates\#151 ; an os tibiale or astragalus , and an osjibularc or calcis .
Evidence of the presence and the composition of a distal row of distinct tarsalia is yet incomplete .
Astragalus ( Plate 80 , figs. 3\#151 ; 7).\#151 ; The upper surface of this , the largest tarsal bone , is the counterpart of that of the tibia ; it is concave from front to back , and in this direction divided by a ridge that marks out two portions corresponding to the inner and part of the outer tibial malleolus .
The under surface is pulley-shaped , convex from front to back , and sinuous transversely , being in this direction convex towards the ends and concave intermediately .
The anterior margin is a thin lip , the posterior margin is stout .
The inner end is non-articular and sub-cutaneous , the outer end ( very thin by the approximation of the upper and under surface ) articulates with the os calcis .
Os calcis ( Plate 80 , figs. 3\#151 ; 7).\#151 ; The outer , non-articular , sub-cutaneous surface is crescentic .
The upper border , nearly straight , is interrupted by a slight elevation , the outer end of a ridge which divides the upper surface into an anterior moiety that receives the end of the fibula , and a posterior in which the outer part of the external tibial malleolus rests .
The under surface is convex from front to back .
The inner surface , or rather border , very narrow , articulates with the astragalus .
The astragalus and os calcis conjointly form a pulley-shaped articular surface on which the front part of the pes moves .
The interlocking of the upper surface of the conjoined bones with the ends of the tibia and fibula renders impossible any movement of them upon the leg-bones .
In a right foot of a nearly fully-grown jHypI found a wedge-shaped bone inserted between the proximal end of the IVth .
metatarsal and the os .
Its position and shape correspond to a bone in the pes of Scelidosaurus Harrisonii* and * Owen , R. , " British .
Eossil Reptilia of the Oolitic Formation , " part ii .
, plate x. , fig. 1 .
OF HYPSILOPHODON FOXTI .
certain American Dinosauria4* regarded as the homologue of the cuboid .
In another foot between the astragalus and the base of IVth .
metatarsal I found a small bone which may be the homologue of the external cuneiform .
These identifications must be accepted with reservation ; they must be confirmed or corrected by new and less disturbed materials .
Metatarsus ( Plate 77 ; Plate 79 , fig. 4 ; Plate 81 , figs. 2 , 3).\#151 ; The metatarsus of Hypsilophodon contains five bones , of which four are large and support functional toes , and one is rudimentary .
The proximal ends of the four large metatarsals are in closest mutual apposition .
Those of the two inner ones with the two distal salia ( if the identification of these latter be correct ) form the distal half of the mid-tarsal joint where movement of the foot on the leg takes place .
The distal ends of these metatarsalia are stout , their articular surface is pulleyshaped , the pits for the attachment of lateral ligaments are large and deep .
Their long , slender , prismatic shafts have a slight forward and inward curve .
Counted from the inner to the outer border of the foot , the Illrd .
is the longest and largest metatarsal ; the IVth .
is slightly longer than the Ilnd .
; and this latter slightly exceeds the 1st .
The following table gives some dimensions of the metatarsals in a fully-grown Hypsilophodon:\#151 ; I. n , millims. III .
millims. IV .
mi ] liras .
Y. millims. Length . .
t 93 ' 105* 87*5 32* Breadth of proximal end .
12* 12-5 . .
8*5 Breadth of distal end * .
* . .
20* 15* . .
The Vth .
metatarsal is a small tapering styliform bone , its distal end bluntly pointed does not support any phalanges .
I found it first in 1876 in close relation to the IVth .
metatarsal and os calcis , and I have since observed it in five other hind feet .
Phalanges ( Plate 79 , fig. 4).\#151 ; The four functional toes have respectively two , three , four and five phalanges , and therefore correspond to the 1st .
, Ilnd .
, Illrd .
, and IVth .
toes in the foot of existing Lizards and Birds .
The second , third , and fourth phalanges of the IVth .
( outer toe ) are shorter than the other phalanges , but this shortening is less than in the same phalanges in the foot of Iguanodon Mantelli and I. The ungual phalanges are long , pointed , slightly curved ( Plate 79 , fig. 4 ) ; their proportions to the metatarsals and other phalanges can be seen from the annexed table of measurements of the foot of an immature individual .
* Marsh , O. C. , Principal Characters of American Jurassic Dinosaurs , " from American Journal of Arts and Sciences , vol. xvi .
, Nov. , 1878 , plate ix .
, fig. 3 .
Laosaurus .
t Too mutilated for measurement .
1st .
toe .
Ilnd .
toe .
Illrd .
toe .
IVth .
toe .
Vth .
toe .
Lengths millims. millims. millims. millims. millims. Metatarsals ... ... ... ... ... . . .
63 ' 69* 56 ' 1st phalange * ... ... ... . . . .
23 ' 25* 17 ' 2rd phalange ... ... ... ... 17* 14* 17* 12* 3rd phalange . . .
, . . . .
21* 13*5 8 ' 4th phalange . . . . . . . . . .
23*5 8* 5th phalange ... ... . . . . . .
17* The sacrum , as in all true dinosauria , differs in the greater number of vertebrae composing it from that of Saurii and Crocodilini .
The Ilium closely imitates that of Aves in the great extension of its praeacetabular part\#151 ; a part which in Saurii and Crocodilini exists only as a mere rudiment .
The Ischium in respect of its length and slenderness and its direction parallel to the lower border of the post-acetabular part of the Ilium differs entirely from that of Lizards and Crocodilians and closely resembles that of Aves , as noticed first by Professor Huxley .
The slender rod-like part of the pubis ( O. Marsh ) directed backwards parallel to the Ischium is obviously the homologue of the pubis in Aves and in Saurii .
Its broad prcepubic or praeacetabular plate ( O. Marsh ) has no homologue in Saurii ; in Aves it exists as a mere rudimentary tubercle .
Its homology with the bone called pubis in Crocodilians deserves consideration .
The Ilium , Ischium , and Pubis all contribute to the formation of the acetabulum , as I believe occurs in all other dinosauria of which the pelvic bones are known , Omo-saurus being no exception to this , for the suggestion that in this dinosaur the pubis articulates only with the Ischium and is thus " seemingly " excluded from the acetabulum* obviously arises from a misconception of the homologies of the several parts of the pubic bone .
A comparison of its pubis with those of Hypsilophodon Foxii , and pertain American dinosaurs must make this apparent to every unbiased mind .
The different proportions of the femur and tibia in Hypsilophodon and Iguanodon Mantelli have been noticed .
In the former it is longer than the tibia , in the latter it is shorter than the tibia .
In Hypsilophodon the inner trochanter is nearer the proximal end than it is in Iguanodon Mantelli , ' and it is also more pointed than in this .
The differences in the anterior intercondylar groves in these two dinosauria are striking .
The tibia is more slender thap in Iguanodon Mantelli .
The Avian resemblances of femur , tibia , and proximal row of tarsalia are very striking .
The pes differs from that of Iguanodon Mantelli notably in the presence of a fourth functional toe .
This alone would , I submit , suffice to exclude it from the genus Iguanodon in which the pes has but three functional toes .
In having four functional toes and the rudi* Owen , R. , ' Mezozoic Reptilia , ' part ii .
, p. 64 .
OF HYPSILOPHODON FOXII .
meant of a fifth , probably also in the presence of two distinct tarsalia answering to those of the outer side in the distal row of tarsalia in higher Vertebrates , the hind foot of Hypsilophodon closely agrees with that of the Liassic Scelidosaurus Harrisonii .
The sharp pointed curved ungual phalanges , of very different form to the blunt depressed unguals of Iguanodon Mantelli , are obviously related to a different habit of life .
Hypsilophodon was adapted to climbing upon rocks and trees .
Postscript .
( Added October 9 , 1882 .
) Since the above was written , further work by the skilful mason of the Palaeontological Department , Mr. Barlow , upon a block of sandstone in the Fox Collection in the British Museum , has very recently brought into view several additional parts of the skeleton , of which the pelvis is represented by Plate 75 .
These afford much information respecting the structure of the fore limb , and an opportunity of comparing the fore and the hind limbs in the same individual .
In the left fore limb the coracoid and scapula remain naturally articulated , and the natural relations of the humerus , ulna and radius are only slightly disturbed , but the manus had broken up and its bones were scattered before the consolidation of the rock .
The right ulna and radius with the manus attached , the dorsal surface towards the spectator , are well preserved .
The shapes and proportions of the coracoid , scapula and humerus agree so nearly with those already given from other specimens as to make any detailed description of them superfluous\#151 ; the chief apparent difference is the absence of the slight projection from the posterior border of the scapula shown in Plate 73 .
A textural difference in the fossil marks off the expanded vertebral end of the bone as a supra-scapula .
The length of the scapula including its supra-scapular part is nearly 9*7 centims. , and that of the humerus is 9*5 centims. The fore-arm ( Plate 79 , fig. 3 ) is shorter than the arm .
The length of the left ulna is 8*7 centims. ( that of the right ulna 8*5 centims. , the slight difference is explained by the different exposure of the proximal end ) ; the radius is shorter , its length being 7*8 centims. ( the right radius 7*7 centims. ) .
The ulna is stout and massive at its articular ends ; and its shaft is laterally so compressed as to greatly narrow the posterior surface in this part .
The distal end of this bone , 1*3 centims. wide , appears to me to afford\#151 ; relatively to the radius\#151 ; a larger support to the carpus than the same bone in Iguanodon Mantelli .
The radius is a more slender bone than the ulna and its figure is more cylindroid .
Its proximal end is slightly expanded .
The capitellum is followed by a slight contraction or neck MR. J. W. HULItB Otf THE OSTEOLOGY which .merges into a relatively slender shaft , widening and flattening distally towards the carpal extremity ; the breadth of which appears to be somewhat less than that of the corresponding part of the ulna .
In the carpus ( Plate 79 , fig. 3 ) ( through which unfortunately passes a crack filled with carbonaceous matter ) a proximal row of is clearly recognisable .
This appears to me to comprise a wedge-shaped os proximally articulating with the ulna and radially with a polygonal os , whilst its distal border corresponds to the base of the IVth .
, and slightly to that of the Illrd .
metacarpal bone .
The intermedium is proximally in relation chiefly with the ulna , but its radial border touches the lower end of the radius here coming into contact with an ossicle , which from its situation with respect to the radius must be regarded as an os radiate .
This is unfortunately damaged by the crack through the rock already mentioned .
Distally the os intermedium corresponds principally to the base of the Illrd .
, and in a less extent to that of the Ilnd .
metacarpal bone .
The os radiate is opposed distally to the base of the 1st .
and slightly to that of the Ilnd .
metacarpal bone .
The condition of this part of the fossil does not permit me to speak confidently of the presence of a distal row of Carpalia .
Five digits are recognisable : numbering these from the radial to the ulnar border of the paw , the 1st .
metacarpal is 1*7 centim. long , and so is slightly shorter than the Ilnd .
, which is 1*85 centim. long .
This , again , is slightly exceeded by the Illrd .
, which is T9 5 centim. or 2 centims. long , and is the longest one , the IVth .
attaining only 1*2 centim. ; whilst the length of the bone which I regarded as the Vth .
metacarpal is only 8 millims. In its shape and its proportions this bone has more resemblance to a digital phalanx than the other metacarpals , but in these very points , as also in its different direction to that of the other metacarpals , it corresponds so well to the Vth .
metacarpal in Iguanodon Mantelli that I may not hesitate to regard it as such .
Proximally it articulates with the os ulnare .
Its distal end is pulley shaped , distinctly articular .
The phalangeal continuations of the toe are missing .
On a small scale the shape and proportions of the other metacarpals repeat the metatarsals and do not require particular description .
In the 1st .
toe two digits are discernible .
In the Ilnd .
toe three phalanges are apparent , of which the proximal is nearly hidden by that of the Illrd .
toe .
This latter ( the Illrd .
) , the line of which is slightly displaced from that of its metacarpal , certainly has four phalanges , the lengths of which are 9 millims. , 5*5 millims. , 4 millims. , and 8 millims. ( the lengths of the proximal and 2nd phalanges of the Illrd .
hind toe of the same skeleton are 2'5 centims. and 2T centims. ) .
It is fortunate that the number of phalanges , four , in thi\#171 ; toe ( Illrd .
of manus ) is beyond question , because this shows an essential structural difference between the fore foot of Hypsilophodon and that of Iguanodon Mantelli , in which , upon the evidence of undisturbed specimens in the Brussels Museum , no digit has more than three phalanges .
In the IVth .
toe of our fossil the proximal phalanx is succeeded by a second , of which OF HYPSILOPHODON FOXII .
1057 the distal half is missing , as is also the continuation of the toe , so that the number of phalanges it had before mutilation is unknown .
The ungual phalanges of the manus resemble on a small scale those of the pes , as already stated .
Evidently the manus of Hypsilophodon conforms more nearly to that of existing Lizards , its type is more generalised than that of the manus of Iguanodon which is highly specialised .
The relative smallness of the fore limb in shown for the manus by the lengths of the metapodia and phalanges already given , is evident also upon a comparison of the other corresponding segments of the fore and hind limb , as may be seen by the following numbers :\#151 ; Table of Lengths .
centims. Femur* ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
15*0 Tibia* ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 15'5 Illrd .
metatarsal ... ... ... ... ... . .
7*6 .
Humerus .
... ... ... ... ... ... . .
9'5 Ulna ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
8*7 Radius ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 7*8 Illrd .
metacarpal ... ... ... ... ... 1*9 Explanation of Plates .
** Denote fossils formerly in the collection of the late Rev. Wm. Fox , recently acquired by the British Museum .
*** Denote fossils in my own collection .
Unless otherwise stated the figures represent the natural size of the fossils .
PLATE 71 .
The following lettering applies to all the figures in this plate .
pa. The parietal bone .
fr .
The principal frontal bone .
prf The prsefrontal bone .
psf The post-frontal bone .
nas .
The nasal bone .
nar .
The anterior nares .
pmx .
The praemaxilla .
* Its median ascending process .
+ Its lateral ascending process .
mx. The maxilla .
* These bones are slightly mutilated and their real lengths are somewhat more .
orb .
The orbit .
utb .
The upper temporal bar .
Itb .
The lower temporal bar .
sq .
The squamosal bone .
popr .
The parotic process .
fra .
The foramen magnum .
oc .
The occipital condyle .
qu .
The quadrate bone .
mn .
The mandible .
Fig. 1 .
An oblique view of a skull of an adult It represents the upper surface and the right side of the brain-case , and the palatal aspect of the snout which , wanting the mandible , has separated from the hind part of the cranium in front of the orbits , and is twisted on its long axis and laterally displaced.*** Fig. 2 .
Oblique view of the upper surface and the right side of a skull of a smaller individual .
** Fig. 3 .
A posterior view of the same skull.** ( From a sketch by the author before the occipital condyle was mutilated .
) Fig. 4 .
Oblique postero-inferior view of the left mandible with the quadrate , and a piece of the lower temporal bar attached to the latter .
PLATE 72 .
Fig. 1 .
Inner view of lateral parts of a skull ( much abraded ) in which the quadrate bone preserves its normal relations.** qu .
The quadrate bone .
sq .
The squamosal bone .
mn .
The mandibular .
Fig. 2 .
Inner view of the anterior part of a left mandibular ramus.** ed.sp .
Marks the edentulous symphysial spout .
sy .
The symphysis .
Fig. 3 .
Outer view of a premaxillary tooth.*** Fig. 4 .
Side view of the same.*** Fig. 5 .
Two worn teeth from near the front of the maxilla with the crown of a successional tooth.*** Fig. 6 .
An unworn tooth from near front of the maxilla.*** Fig. 7 .
A crown of a larger maxillary tooth , posterior in position to figs. 5 and 6.*** Fig. 8 .
Side view of the same.*** Fig. 9 .
A large nearly perfect maxillary tooth.*** ( The mark I indicates the actual length of the teeth .
) OF HYPSILOPHODON FOXII .
Part of a skeleton of a fully-grown Hypsilophodon.** cv , cv .
On the left hand of the figure is a continuous chain of cervical vertebrae .
In front of cv is the reversed mandible Mn .
sc .
The right scapula .
h. The right humerus , its proximal end still resting in the glenoid fossa .
c. The right coracoid .
st. The sternum .
PLATE 74 .
In this plate sp marks the spinous process .
dp .
The diapophysis , pp. The parapophysis .
tr .
The transverse process , ch .
Chevron bones , prz .
The prae-zygapophysis .
psz .
The postzygapophysis .
k. The inferior keel .
nap .
The neurapophysis .
Figs. 1\#151 ; 4 .
Three foremost cervical vertebrae in the Mantell-Bowerbank fossil .
No. 39,4G0 , Brit. Mus. Cat. ( Figured by B. O. in " Brit. Foss .
Kept .
, " Pal .
Soc. , vol. 1855 , tab .
i.)** Fig. 1 .
Left lateral view .
Fig. 2 .
Upper view .
Fig. 3 .
Under view .
Fig. 4 .
Anterior view of a in fig. 1 .
* Fig. 5 .
Lateral view of a cervical vertebrae of a younger individual.*** a. The anterior surface .
Fig. 6 .
Inferior view of the same.*** Fig. 7 .
Anterior view of the same.*** Fig. 8 .
Posterior view of the same.*** Fig. 9 .
Lateral view of the 5th sacral , and two foremost caudal vertebrae.** Fig. 10 .
Front view of 5th sacral in the preceding figure.** Fig. 11 .
Lateral view of a dorsal vertebra.** Fig. 12 .
Lateral view of a lumbar vertebra .
Its spinous process postzygapophyses , and transverse process ( foreshortened ) are broken off.** Fig. 13 .
Lateral view of three caudal vertebrae with their chevron bones .
' ' " ' PLATE 75 .
Inferior view of the sacrum and pelvic bones of an immature i** LI .
The last lumbar vertebra .
1\#151 ; 5 s. The sacral vertebrae .
1\#151 ; 5f The sacral foramina .
P. The right os pubis .
P ' .
The left os pubis .
Is .
The right ischium .
Is ' .
The left ischium .
ob.p .
Obturator process .
Sy .
The symphysis .
Pm. The femora .
cv , cv .
Caudal vertebrae .
ch .
Chevron bones .
PLATE 76 .
Fig. 1 .
Inferior view of sacral and lumbar vertebrae with ischia and pubis of an immature Hypsilophodon.*# Is .
Ischium .
P. Os pubis .
Fig. 2 .
Inferior view of lumbar and sacral vertebrae of a fully-grown Hypsilophodon.*** s. Sacral vertebrae .
LI .
Last lumbar vertebra , a. Acetabulum .
PLATE 77 .
The pelvic bones and right hind limb of a fully-grown For their better individual representation the artist has removed these bones slightly from their relative positions in the fossil .
II .
The ilium .
Is .
The ischium .
Pra .
The praeacetabular portion of the os pubis .
Psa .
The postacetabular part of the same .
f A foramen corresponding to that which in the Bird transmits the tendon of the Obturator intemus muscle .
a. The acetabulum .
Fm .
The femur .
Fb .
The fibula .
T. The tibia .
C. The os calcis .
1-5 m. The metatarsal bones .
OF HYPSILOPHODON FOYIt Figs. 1-5 .
Views of the left femur of the skeleton of which the shoulder-girdle .
\amp ; c. , are shown in Plate 73.*** Fig. 1 .
Outer surface .
Fig. 2 .
Inner surface .
Fig. 3 .
Inferior surface .
Fig. 4 .
Superior surface .
ot .
Outer trochanter .
i.tr .
Inner trochanter .
cap. Capitulum .
Fig. 6 .
Side view of a femur with the tibia and fibula in almost undisturbed natural relation.*** T. Tibia .
F. Fibula .
Fig. 7 .
Front view of the lower end of the same femur as fig. 6.*** PLATE 79 .
Fig. 1 .
The scapula , Sc ; humerus , H ; and coracoid , C , of an immature individual .
g. The glenoid fossa .
Fig. 2 .
The right humerus of the individual whose pelvic bones are represented in Plate 75.*** Its proximal end is mutilated .
Fig. 3 .
The forearm and man us of the same individual.*** R. The radius .
U. The ulna .
1\#151 ; 5 .
The digits .
Fig. 4 .
A right hind foot .
T. The tibia .
1\#151 ; 4 .
The digits .
M. The metatarsals .
PLATE 80 .
Fig. 1 .
Femur of an almost fully-grown individual.*** cap. The capitulum ( mutilated ) .
ot .
The outer trochanter ( mutilated ) .
it .
The inner trochanter .
Fig. 2 .
Outer view of a tibia ( the left ) of an almost fully-grown individual.*** ic. The inner condyle .
pr.c .
The prsecnemial crest .
MU .
J. W. HtTliKE Otf HfPSILOPMOEON FOXII .
Fig. 3 .
Front view of the lower end of the bones of the leg with the proximal tarsalia .
F. The fibula .
T. The tibia .
As .
The astragalus .
Ca. The os calcis .
Fig. 4 .
Outer view of the same .
Fig. 5 .
Posterior view of the same .
Fig. 6 .
Inner view of the same .
Fig. 7 .
Inferior view of the same .
Fig. 8 .
View of the proximal end of the tibia ( fig. 2 ) , projected on a dotted outline of the distal end to illustrate the directions of their long axes .
PLATE 81 .
Fig. 1 .
Front view of the same tibia as shown in Plate 80 , fig. 2 .
per .
The prsecnemial crest .
Fig. 2 .
Lateral view of bones of right hind leg and foot .
T. The tibia .
F. The fibula .
Ca. The os calcis .
1\#151 ; 5 m. The metatarsals .
Fig. 3 .
Oblique outer view of a left hind foot .
The lettering as in fig. 2 .
PLATE 82 .
Restoration of the skeleton of Hypsilophodon .
Wi s'riiL .
Trans. 1882 .
Plate 73 .
.ley axl rvsLb .
del .
We at N\#171 ; wmaJi ft C ? ?
Phil. Trans. 1882 .
Plate 75 .
" Wi H. Wesley eul zisut .
del .
" West Newmaji Sf C ' lwip ifvdk Phil. Trans. 1882 .
Plate 76 .
Wesley otcL rtsdL .
del .
'WeefcNewaariAio \amp ; C ?
iMrip W.iTWesley , adiiAt .
del .
West JSTewimaja 8c C ?
iwp|'WH .
Wesley , litJi , '\#166 ; 011 ll\\lt ; ?
\#166 ; Fag .
1 .
C. PhiLTram.1882.Plate 79 Fig. 3 .
Phil .
Trans .1882 .
Plate 8 O. jjl l Fig. 2 .
W. H/ Weoiey ad not del WeetNevaaan \amp ; C , ?
imp .
Phil. Trans.18 82 .
Plate 81 .
-p r. c. Y \ V \ \ \ l I West ITeyvmaji \amp ; \#166 ; C\#174 ; imp .
RESTORATION OF SKELETON : OF HZF .
SILOFHODON .
r s oo oo to I 00 to

