]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
DIXON , A. C.\mdash ; On 8imultaneous Partial Differential uations .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 1900 , pp. ' ' Bidifferentials\ldquo ; and " " Bifunctions DIXON , A. C. Phil. Trans. , , vol. 195 , , pp. 151-191 .
Equations , differential partial , of firat ordel , two independent val.iables , two dependent .
DIxoIr , A. C. Phil. Trans. , , vol. , 1900 , pp. 151-191 .
Equations , differential partial , of second order , two independent variables , one dependent .
DIxoy , A. C. Phil. Trans. , , vol. 195 , , pp. 151-191 .
TV .
On Equations .
A. C. DIXON , Sc. Communicated J. W. L. GLAISHER , Sc. Received May 9\mdash ; Read June ) , 1899 .
CONTENTS .
S1 .
Introductory . . . . .
151 .
On " " or the elements of double integrals , and on the conditions to ) satisfied in order that a given bidifferential expression may be a complete ential . . . . .
153\mdash ; 159 $ 10 \mdash ; 13 .
Theory of equations in tho of two lmknown fnnctions ; thoir tion roduced to the fol.mation of complete . . . . . .
Theory of other simultanoous partial differential tions in independcnt two dependent variables .
A method of solution , with mples of its tion .
One pair of variables is said to ) a " " bifuncbion\ldquo ; of other when its ) idiffcrential can be linearly expressod in of theirs : this id is of IICC in connection with the derivation of all possibe solutions when complete primitives are known .
Construction of bifunctions in some cases . . . . .
162\mdash ; 181 SS 31\mdash ; 42 ifferential equations of the second order with one dependent and two independent iables .
A method of tion , with examples . . . . .
181\mdash ; 191 S 1 .
IN this paper , without touching on the question of the existence of integrals of systems of simultaneous partial differential equations , I have given a method by which the problem of finding their complete primitives may be attacked .
The cases discussed are two : that of a pair of equations of the first order in dependent and two independent variables , and that of a single equation of the second order , with one dependent and two independent variables .
I follow , as far as possible , the analogy of the method of LAGRANGE and and wit ] this object introduce the conception of the " " bidifferential\ldquo ; or differentinl element of the second order , which bears the same relation to a taken with respect to two independent variables as a differential does to a rential c The solutions considered are , in general , complete primitives , that is , such as arbitrary constants in such number that the result of their elimination is the systenl of equations proposed for solution .
The existence of such primitives is sufficiently establish ( see the papers of FRAU V0N KOWALEVSKY and Professor KoNIGsBhRcER , quoted hereafter ) ; it will therefore be assumed , and the object of the tion 5.11.1900 I MR A. .
DIXON ON SIMULTANEOUS will be to find conditions that must be satisfied by the equations of the solution and to put these conditions in a convenient form for solution by inspection .
I should add that I am greatly indebted to the referees for their suggestions and for help in removing obscurities .
To the list of authorities given by Dr. FOBSYTH ( ' Theory of Dilferential Equations , ' Part I. , pp. 299 , 331 ) , may be added the following:\mdash ; JULIUS KoNIG .
Math. Annalen , vol. , pp. 520 , 521 .
LEO KONIGSBERGER .
Crelle , vol. 109 , pp. Math. Annalen , vol. 41 , pp. Math. Annalen , vol. , pp. 17-40 .
ED . .
WEBER .
Munchen Ber .
, vol. 25 , 423-442 .
J. MCowAN .
Edinb .
Math. Soc. Proc. , vol. HAMBURGER .
Crelle , vol. 110 , C. BOURLET .
Annals de l'Ecole Normale(8 ) , vol. 8 .
RIQUIER .
Comptes Rendus , vols .
114 , 116 , 119 .
Annals de Ecole Normale ( 3 ) , vol. 10 .
LLOYD TANNER .
Proc. Math. Soc. , vols .
7-11 .
J. BRILL .
Quarterly Journal of Math. , vol. 30 , pp. 221-242 .
Several of the above papers are only known to me through abstracts .
On S2 .
The idea of a " " complete differential\ldquo ; plays an important part in the theory differential equations .
In this paper I shall try to show the importance of an extension of the same idea to differential of higher orders , such as enter into multiple integrals .
An expression is called a complete differential when X , are functions of the independent variables , such that If this is the case , then , under certain restrictions , the value of depends only on the limiting values of the variables , and not on the intermediate ones by which these limits are connected , or , as generally expressed , on the path along which the integral is taken .
This depends on the theorem that reasons stated elow , I am not in agreement lvith the given in the latter part of this In this paper it should be noticed that the equations ( 52 ) on p. 266 are not more than ( 46 ) .
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL 1.5 .
' } when the single integral is taken round the boundary of the area over which the double integral is to extend .
Further , X , are in this case the partial derivatives of a single function , S3 .
Let us consider the double integral , where X , are functions of the independent variables .
It is known that this , taken over a closed surface under certain restrictions , is equal to the triple integral taken over the space enclosed by that surface .
Hence , if identically the double integral taken over a closed surface vanishes , and taken over two open surfaces with the same boundary has the same value ; that is to say , the value of the double integral depends on the values of at the boundary only , and not , under certain restrictions , on the form of the surface enclosed by the boundary .
By analogy we may call the element of the double integral a " " complete double differential or a " " complete bidifferential\ldquo ; under these circumstances ; the condition that X may be a complete rential is thus S4 .
A complete bidifferential may be expressed as a single term , such ) .
For let be two independent solutions of the equation so that are integrals of the system ; then ' ' ' being some multiplier , and Since the last vanishes identically is a function of only ; a function 10 of may be such that , and thus VOL. CXCV.\mdash ; A. X Now in finding the value of the double integral taken over a part of any surface , it will be natural to suppose the co-ordinates of any point of such a surface to be functions of two parameters , say , and to transform the integral into one taken with respect to these .
The integral as transformed is and the known values in terms of are to be substituted for and their derivatives .
subject of integration is , or or .
The integral is therefore , and if we take a single element we may write dropping the parameters , since the values which have in terms of them are immaterial .
This equation is meaningless unless the expression in terms of parameters is understood .
The same is true of ordinary differentials .
If when is a function of we write we mean that if are supposed to be any functions whatever of a single parameter , then This equation being true quite independently of the expressions assumed for in terms of , we drop the denominator for convenience ; but in modern works on the .
Calculus it is quite understood that a differential by itself is meaningless this or some equivalent conventiolL PARTIAL ENTIAL TIONS .
I 5.5 S5 .
The functions are not uniquely determined .
They may be replaced by , where are functions of , one of which , say , is arbitrary , while V is only restricted by the condition The transformations of which are allowable will thus form a group .
For a single integral the operations of the corresponding group consist in the addition of different constants , that is , in varying the constant of integration ; the theory of periodic functions is connected with discontinuous sub-groups of this .
It is possible that an investigation of the discontinuous sub-groups of the group of transformations of two variables which leaves their bidifferential unchanged may lead to an extended theory of periodic functions of the two variables .
S6 .
The finding of the functions may be considered as the indefinite integration of the bidifferential expression .
It is simplified by Jacobi 's theory of the last multiplier , which is here a constant .
Since ' we have ; and thus , on the supposition that is constant , Hence may be found , if is known , by integrating this last expression on the supposition that is constant ; may have any values and the constant of integration is to be replaced by an arbitrary function of .
Thus , when one of the functions is known , the other is found by ordinary integration .
only restriction on the one found first is the equation S7 .
Let us now suppose a greater number of independent variables .
Let be a function of . .
We have the relation . . . .
A. C. DIXON ON Here the differentials represent simultaneous infinitesimal increments , those of the independent variables being arbitrary .
The equation may also be interpreted by supposing ) . .
to depend in any manner on a single parameter , when the equation holds whatever functions of the parameter we suppose . . .
to be .
To get the idea of a double differential we must suppose two sets of simultaneous infinitesimal increments ; denote them by , S. The bidifferential of is then Sy \mdash ; Sx .
This vanishes if are not functionally independent , just as vanishes if is a constant .
The analogy is very clearly shown if we say that vanishes when some function vanishes , vanishes when some function vanishes .
If ?
are functions independent variables , we have , and hence S \mdash ; S. , or the summation being taken over all pairs of different suffixes .
Hence the ression for is formed by multiplying together and with the conventions O. We shall often use tlJe notation for S 8 .
For the purpose of double integration of such an expression as 2 , in which the coefficients are functions of it is natural to suppose expressed throughout the range of the integration in terms of two parameters , say .
The integral thus becomes * The dot is used here and throughout the paragraph to distinguish multiplication in the ordini ) algebraic sense from multiplication according to the Grassmann conventions stated the of the PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL If for all pairs of suffixes , the subject of integration in the last integral is , that the integral becomes .
Its value will therefore only depend on the values of , that is of . .
, at the boundary of the range of integration , and not on the form of the relations giving . . .
in terms of , which define the particular surface oyer which the integral is taken .
In this case we may write and call it a complete bidifferential .
It is easily seen that the coefficients X satisfy the relations . . .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) , for all combinations of suffixes , where it is understood that the term may be also written , so that The conditions ( 2 ) are those which must be satisfied in order that the value of the double integral may depend only on the boundary .
The difference of two values of the double integral , for which the same boundary is assumed , will be its value over a closed surface passing through the boundary curve , and this may be transformed into the triple integral taken through the volume of any solid bounded by this closed surface .
Hence this integral must vanish for any solid .
By taking an infinitesimal solid , for every point of which all but are constant , we find the condition ( 2 ) .
The conditions ( 2 ) would be satisfied by an expression which was the sum of two or more complete bidifferentials , but ( 1 ) in general would not .
S 9 .
We next try to find whether these conditions are sufficient as well as necessary .
Now all the coefficients X cannot vanish .
Suppose that .
does not , then we have from ( 1 ) and in virtue of these all the conditions ( 1 ) are satisfied .
Taking the values thus given for we have .
Thus the conditions ( 2 ) are not independent , but all follow from those in which at least one of the suffixes 1 , 2 enters .
If they are satisfied then the equations can be satisfied by two of the form ; that is , these last equations will give as functions of the rest , such that For the conditions necessary and sufficient*for this are the vanishing of such expressions as in which 1 , 2 may be interchanged and are any two of the other suffixes .
This expression may be written ( rls ) , so that it vanishes and the conditions of integrability of the equations are satisfied .
If are the integrals , then , ' not contain the of , we must have * For proof of this statement see FORSYTH , ' Theory , ' part I. , pp. 43-61 , PARTIAL ERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
and .
In like manner , the being the same .
Hence , v and Since this vanishes for all combinations of suffixes , is a function of , and if another function of them , , is so chosen that we shall have .
Linear Equations .
S10 .
If is an integral of the linear partial differential equation . . .
where are functions of , .
then satisfies the condition and the complete differential is a linear combination*of the determinants ' ' the coefficients in the combination being usually functions of , . .
If is a common solution of the above equation and of then , in like manner , is a linear combination of the determinants *This is generally expressed by saying that " " is an integral of the equations . .
For the sake of the analogy with the work of , I prefer the phrase in the text , which expresses no more and no less than the one geIterally used .
' ' but in general , of course , it will not be possible to combine them so as to form a perfect differential .
S11 .
An analogous process of integration may be given for two simultaneous equations ( 3 ) , in which the coefficients are functions of independent variables , . . .
, and two dependent , and To fix the ideas , take and let stand for respectively , for for for , and make similar changes in the accented letters .
Then , if are two equations constituting a solution , being arbitrary constants , we must have . . . . .
( 4 ) ; for \amp ; c. , if and the values thus given for must satisfy the equations ( 3 ) identically , since are supposed arbitrary .
The equations to be solved are thus reduced to others which are linear and homogeneous in the Jacobians , and which do not contain the dependent variables .
The equations ( 4 ) give two of the Jacobians of linearly in terms of the others ; if we substitute for these two in the identity ' we find that is a linear combination of the determinants of the matrix of ten columns .
*This solution will not be a complete primitive unless a certain number of other arbitrary constants are involved as well as , a supposition which is neither made nor excluded .
It be well to point out that the solution here ssumed consists of two equations , and not of one equation involving an arbitrary function ; in fact , aJly solution whatever necessarily consists of two equations , and one point of the present method is these are to be sought together , not successively .
For independent riables the number of columns in the matrix will be , the of rows ) oiug still PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
There are thus eight bidifferential expressions , and the problem is to be solved by finding such multiples of these as , when added together , will form a complete bidifferential .
S12 .
As in the case of LAGRANGE'S linear equation , this will generally , in practice , be done by inspection , and the method will be useful for finding solutions in finite terms\mdash ; when such exist .
But in any case , *whether the inspection is successful or not , there can be no doubt of the existence of suitable multipliers , in infinite number .
For it is certain that the equations ( 3 ) have\mdash ; possibly among other solutions--.-an infinity of solutions , each inyolving two arbitrary constants at least , and any one of these may be written , where are the two constants ; are functions of the variables , but may , of course , be implicit functions of great complexity .
The functions must satisfy the conditions ( 4 ) , and it immediately follows that must be a linear combination of the determinants of the matrix formed from ( 4 ) as above ; so that a corresponding system of multipliers must exist .
If the solution is not in finite terms it is not likely to be found by inspection , and it is quite probable that the best way to find it would be by solving the original equations ( 3 ) in series .
By whatever means the solution is found , the corresponding system of multipliers is thereby determined .
If nine solutions of the form have been found , the nine bidifferentials , . . .
must satisfy identically a linear relation , since they are all linear combinations of eight expressions only .
We shall say that one of the nine pairs of functions is a " " bifunction\ldquo ; of the other eight pairs .
The following is , then , the definition of a bifunction .
When the bidifferentials of any number of pairs of quantities are connected by an identical linear relation , with constant or variable coefficients , any one of these pairs is said to be a bifunction of the rest .
The word bifunction is simply used as an least for the present .
1 am not without hope that at a future time it may be found to have some connotation .
* If one of the dependent variables with its derivaves is altogether bscnt from the tions ( , or if it can be to disappear by a change of the other dependent , the equations ( 3 ) will in general havo no solution .
this case will then be excluded ; it is the oIlly citbc in which the method of solution in series given , instance , KowALBVSKY , Crcllo , nnot I used to prove that solutions actually exist .
Another case may fairly be excluded is that in the tives of oIlC of tho ) variables do not occur or may be made to disappear by a change of the other .
Snch a tcnl is lent to a single partial differential equation with one dependent variable , since the one whose ves are absent may be eliminated .
VOL. CXCV .
\mdash ; A. It is , of course , evident that if are functions of variables .
then the pair is a bifunction of all the pairs that can be formed from . . .
Other examples will be found later on in the paper .
S 13 .
Sometimes solutions exist for systems of partial differential equations in which the number of dependent variables is less than the number of equations .
If , for instance , with the system just considered we take a third equation of the same form , the coefficients being distinguished by two dashes , there may be solutions common to the three equations .
If give such a solution , then it follows in like manner that is a linear combination of the determinants of the following matrix : \mdash ; Similarly for a greater number of equations .
Application to other Differenfial Equations .
S 14 .
There are two classes of equations whose solution depends on that of a pair of such linear homogeneous equations as we have just been considering ; they are , firstly , systems of two equations in two dependent and two independent variables , and , secondly , equations of the second order with one dependent variable and two independent .
We shall consider them in order .
Firstly , let be the dependent variables and the independent ; sometimes we shall write for and for .
Let be the partial derivatives of and those of , and let the equations be A complete primitive will consist of two equations connecting and involving foul arbitrary constants .
By differentiation these equations yield four more involving .
As the two equations are supposed to be a complete primitive it must be possible to find expressions for the four arbitrsJ:y constants in terms of ; the elimination of the four constants must give Let be the constants , and the expressions for them in terms of .
Suppose to stand for cspectively .
Then by differentiation we have for any value of the suffix from 1 to 6 , PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
the letter being used to denote differentiation with respect to or on the supposition that the other is constant , while indicates strictly partial diflerentiation .
Since , we find by eliminating the derivatives of , that and where denotes the Jacobian of any four of the functions } , with respect to the variables specified in the bracket .
Of these equations there are thirty , but since they are given by the elimination of six quantities from twelve equations only six of the thirty can be independent .
S15 .
One pair of these auxiliary equations will contain Jacobians of and will in fact express the conditions that the equations shall be integrable without restriction when have the values given the equations Thus , if a pair of functions can be found satisfying these two auxiliary equations , the solution can be completed by solving a .
of simultaneous ordinary equations .
( See MAYER'S method , FORSYTH , ' Theory of Differential uations , ' pp. 59-62 .
) The two auxiliary equations that must satisfy are linear and homogeneous in their Jacobians , the coefficients of the Jacobians not involving the functions .
; the number of independent variables is apparently eight , but it may be taken as six , since two of the eight variables are given as functions of the other six by the relations , and may be supposed eliminated from if that is desirable .
The columns of the matrix formed as at S11 are the rows of the following array:\mdash ; , , , , ( 5 ) , .
A. C. DIXON ON SIMULTANEOUS , , ( 10 ) , , ( 15 ) , , , , ( 20 ) , , , ( 25 ) , , , ( 5 ) Here , for instance , is written for , and fifth row is numbered .
S16 .
In order , then , to solve the equations we have to form such a linear combination of the determinants of this array as will be a complete bidifferential , say , being such functions that the equations can be solved for .
The array contains twenty-eight rows , but thirteen of these are combinations of the other fifteen .
For instance , multiply the first row by , the second by , the third by , the seventh by , the eleventh by , the fifteenth by , the nineteenth by and add ; the resulting row is which vanishes .
Other vanishing rows may be formed similarly by combining the rows of the array so as to have in the first column one of the following\mdash ; , .
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
The coefficients in these combinations are partial derivatives of or , thus , for instance , , , and so in other cases .
The number of these combinations is sixteen , but it is to be lowered by three , since and are identically zero and can be formed by combinin the sixteen in two ways , so that three linear combinations of the sixteen bidifferentials vanish identically .
Hence the array contains virtually only fifteen rows and as there are three columns , we have thirteen bidifferential expressions to combine .
Any pair of the four functions will satisfy the two auxiliary equations , as is clear either from the equations themselves or from an examination of the matrix ; of course these solutions of the auxiliary equations will not give a complete primitive .
S17 .
If a complete primitive has been found it leads , as has been explained , to four equations and any pair of these must satisfy the auxiliary equations .
Thus twelve pairs of functions satisfying these are known , namely and and .
These , however , are not all independent , but one pair is a bifunction of the other eleven .
For if ( 6 ) are the equations of the complete primitive , they must reduce to identities when are substituted for respectively .
Hence . . . . .
( 7 ) , identically , and so that ) ) ( 8 ) , and the bidifferentials of the twelve pairs of functions are ) nected by a linear relation .
S 18 .
The method of CHARPIT for a single partial differential equation of the first order shows how all solutions may be deduced from one complete primitive , and it is a question of interest and importance whether there is any analogous method for simultaneous equations .
Now it follows at once from the conditions for a complete bidifferential that a bifunction of the pairs that can be formed from functions , say , will be a pair of functions of .
In the present case a bifunction of the six pairs that can be formed with will be a pair offunctions of these four , and the complete primitive to which it will lead will be the same as that given by .
For when a solution of the auxiliary equations is known it leads directly to one and only one complete primitive by the integration of the equations* ; also the complete primitive to which the equations const .
, const .
, will lead can be no other than is given by It must not , however , be forgotten that the system const .
, const .
, may have a singular solution .
If involve two other arbitrary constants this singular solution will involve four , and therefore in general be a complete primitive of the equations .
Moreover , all new complete primitives are included among those thus given .
For every solution implies six equations connecting ( two of these six are of course ) , and , therefore , by elimination of , two equations or more connecting , which are known in terms of these eight quantities .
If are connected by four equations they are constants , and the solution is therefore included in the old complete primitive .
Let us , then , suppose that are connected by two or by three equations , .
Now if , are all expressed in terms of , two their number , and , by means of the equations , the expressions must both be sible in the form * Otherwise thus\mdash ; if in the auxiliary equations we suppose to the known value , they become a pair of linear equations for , which mnst be satisfied by ; now two linear equations in six independent variables can only have four fumctionally independent solutions , and one of these is known , namely , .
( In exceptional cases the two equations for may be equivalent ; for instance , snppose having any form .
) Hence , except in special cases , the particular complete primitive is defined when one of the functions , or more generally a combination of them , is known .
In the case supposed in the text two snch combinations are known .
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
and since are absent we must have in each case the equations become ' These two equations , connecting , taken with the system , show that if satisfy by themselves no other relations than we must have , as a consequence of the equations of the solution , If , then , there are two equations the four equations must reduce to two only .
This will be the ordinary case , and we see that if the forms of , have been found by any means , the solution is completed without integration ; the process corresponds to CHARPIT'S method of deducing all complete prinutives from one , but it differs in that the functions , are not arbi r ; they must , in fact , be so chosen that the four equations last en shall reduce to two , and the conditions for this are clearly very complicated in general , though in particular cases available forms for may be seen on inspection .
In the more uncommon case , when there are three equations the six equations , must reduce to one only .
These two cases are further discussed , from a somewhat difl erent- poin of view , in SS21\mdash ; 23 .
It should not be forgotten that the in which the new complete primitive has just appeared is not that in which complete primitives were discussed in S14 , since the equations are not here supposed to be solved for the arbitrary constants .
S 19 .
In addition to the six pairs of functions satisfying the auxiliary equations , we have also the six pairs ; of these twelve , eleve 1 are independent , the other being a bifunction of them .
If we can find bifunction of the eleven pairs which is not a bifunction of either set of six it give a new complete primitive ; whether every , or indeed any , other primitive is thus given is a matter for further inquiry .
Suppose to be a new complete primitive , then it gives six more pairs of functions satisfying the auxiliary equations , and thus we have in all eighteen pairs .
The bidifferentials of these must be connected by ( 18\mdash ; 13 ) five linear relations , one of which has been written ( 8 ) ; by means of the other four , an expression of either of the following forms\mdash ; , can be found which will be equal to a linear ation of the twelve bidifferentials and .
It is natural to ask whether , conversely , any linear combination of these twelve which can be written in one of the above forms will lead to a complete primitive ?
In the first case this is not so , for if we take any function whatever , , of six independent variables , . . .
, we may choose the coefficients , . .
, so that sball be a lineal combination of eleven* given bidifferentials ; the expression 2 may then be reduced to three terms , , so that for an function a combination of the eleven given bidifferentials can be found the form , which is the same as .
This argument does not apply to the second form , and further investigation may show that any combination of the eleven that can be educed to this form will lead to a primitive .
Not of any lower number in general , since the most general bidifferential sxpression in this number of variables contains fifteen terms , while the expression just written vanishes identically if so that there are virtually only five coefficients , of which one must be left arbitrary .
The conditions necessary that a bidifferential expression may be reducible to this form include aIgebraic ones which are the same as for a complete bidifferential , since PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
S 20 .
Before we can claim in any sense to have found the general solution of the auxiliary equations , we must be in possession of thirteen pairs of functions them ; we have only eleven when we know one complete primitive , and hence one more complete primitive , or even possibly two , must be found .
An below , S 29 ) will show that one more is not always enough .
It is perhaps worth while to remark that any complete primitive defines the whole system of solutions , since it defines the differential equations .
S 21 .
The question of new solutions when a complete primitive is known may be attacked by the method of the parameters .
Take the equations ( 6 ) or ( 7 ) of S 17 .
The problem is then to find such variable values for as will satisfy the equations ( 9 ) .
Since all variables are supposed functions of we may make one of two suppositions with respect to ; either they are connected three relations and are all functions of the same variable , say , which is of course a function , or they are only connected by two relations , so that two of them may be taken as functions of the other two .
Suppose first that they are all functions of the one variable .
Then , generally , the four equations ( 7 ) , ( 9 ) will define also as functions of , and hence this supposition is not admissible it is possible to choose the functions of in such a that the four equations ( 7 ) , ( 9 ) will be only equivalent to three .
The If these conditions are satisfied by an expression , it can be put in the form , and then it must further be possible to express and as combinations of three .
The discussion of the cforc belongs to the theory of the reduction of two such ions , that is , of the extendod * It scems obvious that this will not generally be possible ; but well to ve an examplc .
Suppose tho complete primitive to be so that the differcntial equations are then the variations of the parameters must satisfy the cquations , ; VOL. CXCV.\mdash ; A. number of conditions , which will be of the nature of ordinary differential equations , thus imposed on the four parameters must not be greater than three ; for if they are subjected to four conditions they are made invariable ; it may be , however , less than three .
For instance , a complete primitive of the equations is given by ; the equations given by varying the parameters are which give the single differential equation connecting the parameters We then assume arbitrary forms for two parameters in terms of a third , and find the fourth by integration .
Say , for instance , , then ; thus we arrive at the known general solution .
whence , by elimination of This equation must fail to define , so that , and or must be constant , thence it follows that all four parameters must bc constant .
I lay stress on this , because it is not in agreement with the results of Professor KoNIGSBERGER ( ' Crelle , ' vol. 109 , p. 318 ) , and appears in fact to show that his method there given is faulty .
Professor KoNIGSassumcs ( p. 313 ; I take ) that the most general integral of the equations the form where ) denote arbitrary and definite fUmctions .
But suppose these equations solved for in the form and the arbitrary functions eliminated by differentiation .
The differential equations thus formed are of the first degree in , and are not by any means of the general form assumed .
The differential equtions in the examplos given by Professor KoNIGSBERGER are , in fact , linear ( see pp. 319 , 328 ) .
The method appears to be founded on an interpretation of the last clause of S2 ( p. 290 ) , which is not justified .
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL In the case of two equations of CLAIRAUT'S form , which will be more fully considered later , the number of differential tions alnong the parameters is two , so that one parameter may be taken as an arbitrary function of a second , and the other two found in terms of the second by solving two ordinary differential equations .
If the primitive*is where are the parameters , known functions of , and , S known functions of then the variations of the parameters must satisfy the relations and thus , in general , if are all functions of one variable they connected by three relations The integral equivalent of these equations consists of three relations connecting with three arbitrary constants , and by eliminating we find new solution of the original differential equations which is not a complete primitive , since it only contains three arbitrary stants .
These examples show that the number of conditlons to be fulfilled by the parameters when all four are taken to be functions of one of them , may be one , two , or three ; this number is to be made up to three by assuming arbitrary relations ( two , one , or none , as the case may be ) .
S22 .
Usually the parameters will not be functions of one variable only , and we may suppose two of them , , to be functions of the other two , The partial differential coefficients are then given by the equations ( 9 ) , each of which is equivalent to two .
The first , for instance , gives The derivatives are thus given in terms of , and the hst * It is unnecessary to give the equations , four may be eliminated by means of the relations ( 7 ) ; so that in the end we shall two relations connecting , and the derivatives ; the problem is of the same form as the original one , to solve two simultaneous partial differential in two dependent and two independent variables .
Interchange of Variables and Parameters .
S23 .
A curious thing may be noticed at this point .
If in the equations , we treat as arbitrary constants and eliminate them by differentiation , we are led to the same differential equations connecting as were just now given by the variation of parameters .
Thus two equations in two sets of four.quantities will give two of simultaneous partial differential equations by taking each set of the quantities in turn as variables and the other as arbitrary conauxiliary equations , if expressed in terms of the eight quantities , will be the both cases ; this gives a meaning to the six solutions of the form which we found the auxiliary equations to have , for any one of the six will leffi to primitive of the second pair of differential equations , just as a solution leads to this primitive for the first pair ; any new solution of the auxiliary equations will in lead to a new complete primitive for either pair , but an exception to this rule will arise when , for instance , the differential equations have a complete primitive which gives three relations among The array ( 5 ) , transformed so that the variables are connected by the equations , will have six rows of the form six of the form and in the other sixteen there will be in the first column , in the second the minor of in the determinant : \ldquo ; ( 10 ) \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL LQUATIONS .
in the third the same expression with interchanged .
The array is thus practically unchanged by interchanging the sets and , as should be the case .
S24 .
This transformation may be accomplished by taking the equations from which may be deduced , or Now are given by the relations , \amp ; .
, and hence this equation may be written ( 11 ) ; in this 40 , may be terchanged so as to give another equation .
Now , suppose to be two of the four equations with , which yield a new complete primitive , and have been eliminated from by means of the equations , then the derivatives , \amp ; c. , are given by the following relations:\mdash ; and similarly for the derivatives with respect to Substituting the ] hence found for these derivatives in the equation ( 11 ) , we have an equation linear in the Jacobians of the form , the coefficient of the Jacobian written being the minor of in the determinant ( 10 ) .
Hence the constituents in the second column of the transformed array are as stated , and those of the third are found in like manner .
It is not , of course , necesthat these columns should be the same as would be found by actual substitution of the values of in the columns of the original array ; a linear transformation is allowable , with constant or variable coefficients .
The above process gives fifteen independent rows of the array ; the others are deduced from the consideration that are known in terms of from the equations xamples .
S25 .
I. As a first example of the method of solution , take the equations where denote known functions of and known functions of In the array ( 5 ) multiply the seventh row by ) ' the fifteenth by , the twenty-fourth by ' and add .
The result in the first column is , in the second , by virtue of the particular forms and or and in the third , or Hence are two functions satisfying the auxiliary equations , and a solution is given by finding from the equations and integrating .
Two constants will be introduced by integration , so that the result is a complete primitive .
S26 .
II .
Take , secondly , the equations , .
Here the twenty-fourth row is PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
so that are two functions satisfying the auxiliary equations , and the integral is to be found by putting ] .
Thus we have , or where These are ordinary differential equations , the solution of which will involve two new arbitrary constants and so constitute a complete primitive of the original equations .
S27 .
III .
The equations , are of special interest , because more complete primitives than one can be found .
The obvious solution is , .
Suppose to be variable , but functions of one variable only\mdash ; say , then their variations must satisfy the relations These define , and , therefore , also as functions of , unless the determinants of the matrix ' vanish ; it is necessary , then , that these determinants should vanish .
Thus are connected by two ordinary differential equations .
We may assume any third relation connecting them at will ; suppose , denoting arbitrary function .
Then by integration we may suppose found in terms of Also is connected with by the relation so that are all known in terms of , and by substitution the values of are found .
MR. A. C. DIXON ON SIMULTANEOUS S28 .
The solution may be verified .
We have taken , a known but rbitrary function of , and other functions of , such that Then we have the further relations which are of course not distinct .
Also , so and in like manner Again , and and similarly Hence the original differential equations are actually satisfied .
If the arbitrary relation assumed\mdash ; which may if convenient involve more than two of the parameters\mdash ; contains two arbitrary constants , the new solution will generally be a complete primitive , since two more constants are introduced by integration .
The ordinary equations to be integrated may a singular solution with one arbitrary constant , or with lloIle : if the arbitrary function has been chosen so to involve three or four arbitrary constants , the whole number being thus raised to four , the solution so given may quite well be a complete primitive , , in genernl , will bc so .
The bove invcstigation in a modified foxm shows how to find integrals of a system of three eqnittions ( 12 ) where Onc tion is to take ) , as constants connected by the three relations ( 12 ) ; if they are not constants we have PARTIAL DIFFEIIENTIAL EQUATIONS . .
Let us now consider the new solutions of the auxiliary equations , given by the new complete mitive .
The old solutions are the six pairs of the form and the six of the , where .
The bidifferentials of these twelve satisfy the relation In the auxiliary equations we may take ) as independent variables , since are given explicitly in terms of these six .
From ( 12 ) follow three more relations connecting the six differentials , so that their ratios are determinate , and therefore can only be functions of one variable .
The two equatio11s last written will then , generally , give in terms of this variable , which may not be .
Hcncc we must have and since , and do not nish , must sntisfy the equation : \ldquo ; If satisfies this equation the diIferential relations reduce to two only , since are connected by the equations By integrating these two we find two more relations involving two arbitrary constants .
Hence we suppose expressed in of , and find a solution by eliminating from the , CXCV .
\mdash ; A. 2 Then and similar expressions may be found for , , in terms of the bidifferentials of the pairs of independent variables .
Let be the constants of integration in a new complete primitive by the method of SS 27-8 .
Let be the common value of the ratios .
Then , after integrating the equations by help of an assumed relation connecting , say , we have four relations among and we may therefore suppose p expressed in terms of unless is a constant , and therefore itself a function of .
Then will be linear combinations of , and so will some such expression as where vanishes if is one of the constants or a function of them .
Conversely , will be linear combinations of and the bidifferentials of in pairs will be linear combinations of the six following expressions:\mdash ; , , , , , hese are combinations of the bidifferentials of , in pairs , with the expressions .
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
Now is a definite function of , given by eliminating the differentiak from the equations By means of the first two , the third becomes and the fourth The result of elimination is therefore This shows the form of as a function of not involving .
Now this choice of makes it possible to choose coefficients such that , .
Thus multiples of bidifferentials of multiples of bidifferentials of In like manner multiples of bidifferentials of Hence the three expressions , , , are all reduced to the same , save for a factor , by adding or subtracting multiples of the bidifferentials of and of ; the same is therefore true of the bidifferentials of .
Hence all the new complete primitives found by the method of SS27-8 only add one to the eleven known " " bifunctionally\ldquo ; independent pairs of functions satisfying the auxiliary equations ; one more pair , leading to a fresh complete primitive , is yet to be found .
S30 .
These results may be used to construct examples of bifunctions .
For instance , the equations lead to the following case among others :\mdash ; In the equations put , and integrate .
Thus and the arbitrary constants in the new solution are respectively equal to , where Now from S29 it follows that can be expressed in terms of , the bidifferentials of and those of For convenience , let us write for respectively ; then for we must put , for , , , , for , , , , PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
so that the eight original variables connected by two equations are now expressed in terms of six .
Thus can be expressed in terms of , the six bifferentials of and those of that is , of There is no difficulty in finding the relation .
It is Here then we have an identical linear relation connecting the bidifferentials of seven pairs of functions of six variables .
Any one of the seven pairs is accordingly by definition a bifunction of the other six .
Second S31 .
Take now a differential equation of the second order , where are the first and the second partial derivatives of with respect to A complete primitive will consist of a single equation in involving five arbitrary constants , say .
If we form the first and second derivatives of this equation we shall have , in all , six equations from which can be found in terms of , and the original differential equation will be the result of eliminating .
Let represent the expressions found for respectively , in terms of Then from the equations by differentiating , we can form six equations which will involve the third derivatives of ; by eliminating these we deduce the following two differential equations to be satisfied by , t , and O. Here denotes the Jacobian of with respect to the variables specified .
These equations express the conditions which are necessary and sufficient in order that may be integrable without restriction , when are given in terms of by the equations ; the conditions must of course be satisfied by any three of the six functions We thus have forty equations , of which only eight can be algebraically independent .
S32 .
The conditions to be satisfied by are linear and homogeneous in their Jacobians with respect to the eight variables ; of these , one is given in terms of the rest by the equation , and may , if convenient , be supposed not to occur in : hence the auxiliary equations in this case have seven independent variables and the dependent variables do not occur explicitly : to find a solution we are therefore to form a mplete bidifferential , which shall be a linear combination of the determinants of the following array:\mdash ; ( 5 ) , , , , , ( 10 ) , , , , , PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
18.3 , . .
( 25 ) , P. .
are written for Of these twenty-eight rows , only twenty-one are independent .
For instance , multiply the 1st , 2nd , 4th , 7th , 10th , 13th , 16th by \mdash ; respec- tively and add ; the resulting row is which vanishes since by hypothesis .
Suppose to be the complete bidifferential formed from the determinants of the array , then to complete the solution we have to find from the equations and integrate the equations It will amount to the same thing if we treat as known in the auxiliary equations .
They must be satisfied if are substituted in turn for Now two homogeneous linear partial differential equations in seven independent variables can at most have five common solutions , and here one of these , , is known ; the other four may be taken as S 33 .
Any two of the five functions will satisfy the auxiliary equations , but as we have to solve for , these solutions will not serve our purpose .
They are ten in number , and ten more will be given by taking in pairs the expressions given by any complete primitive .
These twenty are not all bifuncnally independent , for since there are three among the ten expressions Compa ) S34 , p. 184 .
three linear relations can be formed connecting the twenty bidifferentials ; one is formed from each pair of equations as at S17 ( 8 ) .
Hence seventeen bifunctionally independent solutions of the auxiliary equations are known when we have one complete primitive .
The full number is nineteen , and in order to know all we must have one , or possibly two ( see S41 , p. 190 ) , more complete primitives .
S34 .
New solutions found by varying the parameters may be divided into two classes , according as the parameters are or are not all functions of one variable ; solutions of the former class only occur in exceptional cases , and the principles of S21 apply to them with slight modification .
Let the three equations connecting be ; ( the forms are not unrestricted , but must be such that the following relations hold identically ; or we may take as not involving and as as , then the variations of the parameters must satisfy the three equations , in order that the same relations may subsist among and the paranleters , as held when the parameters were constant .
If the parameters are functions of one variable , their forms must be so chosen that the three equations last written reduce to one only , otherwise we shall have five relations connecting with this single variable .
S 35 .
If the parameters are not functions of one variable , only the equations are equivalent to six , and determine the partial derivatives of with respect to terms of the five parameters and .
By help of the relations we may suppose eliminated and thus arrive at a system of four partial differential equations connecting PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
The original system may also be taken to consist of four equations connecting five variables , namely : and so the method of variation of parameters does not lead to any simplification of the problem in general .
S36 .
The interchange of variables and parameters is again possible ; it is , perhaps , made clearer by taking three equations of perfectly general form , , connecting two each of five quantities .
Whichever set we suppose constant and eliminated by differentiation , we are led to a system of four partial differential equations connecting the quantities of the other set , two of the five bein taken as independent variables .
A new solution of either of these systems of differential equations will in general yield a new solution of the other .
Suppose , for instance , that we have a new solution of the equations ; this gives , say , in terms of .
Then the six equations included in give two relations among , since the four differential equations , which are consequences of these six , are supposed satisfied ; by the help of these two , , may be eliminated from the three relations , and thus three relations are given connecting ; these three will constitute a solution of the system of differential equations .
S 37 .
In this more general case there will not seemingly , as a rule , be any more solutions for either system of differential equations .
For the derivatives , say , of with respect to are given in terms of these five variables and two others , say .
The forms we may assign to .
are then restricted by three differential equations derived from the three conditions , and thus , generally speaking , no forms of will be suitable .
In some cases the conditions are not inconsistent , and we may form an array by the method of S 11 such that if is a combination of its determinants , then .
cxcv .
will give suitable values for .
This array will have four columns and forty-five rows , ten such as ten such as , and twenty-five of the following type .
In the first column there is , in the the minor of , in the determinant ' ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
for , 2 , 8 .
This interchange of variables and parameters may take place whenever their numbers are equal , the differential equations being of the first degree .
Examples .
S38 .
I. As an example of the method of solution take the equation , where is a function of and a function of In the array ( S32 ) multiply the first row by , the fifth by , the fourteenth by , the seventeenth by , and add ; the resulting row is Hence we take X being a function of only and a function of only .
Then is a relation connecting , and is a relation connecting and by solving these for X , respectively we shall have the complete primitive .
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
S39 .
II .
As a second example take the equation O. Here the third row of the array is so that the functions satisfy the auxiliary equations .
Put , then , ; thus the last term being a function of onJy .
The differential equation thus becomes an ordinary equation of the second order giving X in terms of and two more arbitrary constants ; hence the finding of a complete primitive is reduced to the solution of the equation last written .
S40 .
III .
If the equation is of the particular form , the first three rows of the array are Hence any two of the three functions will satisfy the auxiliary equations , and a complete primitive is givell by putting Hence , where are constants satisfying the relation This is a case in which other solutions are readily given by supposing the parameters variable and functions of one variable only , say .
The variations must satisfy the conditions whence follows , a simpler relation that may be taken instead of the first of the three .
These equations will define in terms of the single variable , unless all the first minors of vanish .
We thus have three ordinary differential equations connecting ; they are connected also by the relation , and the fifth relation among them may be chosen arbitrarily , so that we may put , an arbitrary function .
Then we have 2 defda as the equations determining in terms of .
These are to be integrated , and then is to be eliminated from the equations .
The result of elimination will be a solution of the differential equation .
Three constants are introduced by integration , and thus , if the function involves two constants , the new solution will generally be a complete primitive . .
The new complete primitive gives new solutions of the auxiliary equations which we shall now examine .
Let be the new set of parameters .
Then are connected with these parameters by five equations , one of which is the original equation .
These five relations are such , that if then ; of these five , the first two define in terms of , and the others must then follow from the five equations that give in terms of and the same new .
constants .
Thus , in general , we may suppose expressed in terms of and the expressions will be such that PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
involve only the differentials of .
One of these five is expressible in terms of the other four , since while one of the relations connecting , .
is Some expression such as will also involve the differentials of only .
Hence the differentials of will be linear combinations of , of which the last five satisfy a linear relation .
Thus the bidifferentials of in pairs will be linear combinations of the bidifferentials of ( only five of the six need be used ) in pairs , and of the expressions , , of which last five , only four are independent .
Now are connected not only by the equation but also by the equation so that they are definite functions of Again , .
Thus multiples of bidifferentials of In like manner multiples of bidifferentials of Lastly , multiples of bidifferentials of Hence , in all , nine combinations of the ten bidifferentials of can be expressed in terms of the bidifferentials of and of ; that is , in terms of the bidifferentials of the seventeen known independent pairs of functions satisfying the auxiliary equations : thus the new complete primitive adds only one to the number of these known bifunctionally independent pairs , and one more must be added in order to give the full number .
This theory enables us again to construct examples of bifunctions of a number of known pairs which may reach eighteen .
S42 .
The foregoing investigation may be modified so as to give singular solutions of a pair of differential equations of the form in question , say where A complete primitive would be given by supposing constants connected by the above equations .
Another solution would be given by solving the total differential equations found by snpposing the relations PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS .
to reduce to the same relation linear in and .
That is , we must solve the system where are given in terms of by the relations and in terms of by the relations The complete primitive of these ordinary equations will involve three arbitral.y constants , and there may be singular solutions with a lower number ; none of these will therefore constitute a complete primitive of the partial rential system

