350 On Rocks , tyc .
, from the Ka [ Apr. pointed out and adopted .
A correction is also calculated and applied for another disturbance which still remains .
4 .
The chief experiment* is on interference phenomena , somewhat analogous to Newton 's rings , by transmission .
The resultant curvet depends upon about 200 electrometer readings .
5 .
The experiments conclude with two examples j of modifications of the secondary which produce no reflexion .
These consisted respectively of thinner wires nearer together , and of thicker wires further apart , than the normal spacing .
In each case the capacity was practically unaltered by the change in the wires ; hence , as anticipated from the theory , no reflexion occurred . .
6 .
The systematic comparison of theory and experiment , madeS near the end of the paper , does not exhibit an absolute quantitative agreement .
Nevertheless , the two are so far concordant in all their general features as to be mutually confirmatory , and were approved by Professor Hertz|| as close approximations .
IV .
" On Rocks and Minerals collected by Mr. W. M. Conway-in the Karakoram-Himalayas .
" By T. G. Bonnet , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in University College , London , and Miss C. A. Raisin , B.Sc. Received February 15 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) During his journey in the Karakoram-Himalayas , Mr. W. M. Conway collected more than 300 specimens of rocks and minerals , generally rather small , which have been examined by the authors .
They give a general summary of the results obtained , together with the details of chief interest .
Among the rocks are numerous specimens of granite and gneiss ( the latter frequently pressure-modified granites ) , diorites , and hornblende schists , crystalline limestones and dolomites , calc-mica , micaceous , and other schists , ordinary limestones , sandstones with some conglomerates , argillites , slates , and phyllites , as well as some peculiar mottled felstones , pi'obably devitrified acid lavas , from one locality ( Golden Throne Peak ) .
Of these rocks , the most interesting are a dark green serpentine , very like a variety common in the Alps , some hornblendites , piedmontite-schists , schists with a secondary brown mica , the crystals in one case being quij ; e a quarter of an inch in diameter ; a partially altered argillaceous rock , in which small * Expt. V , arts .
42\#151 ; 48 .
t Curve E , fig. 10 .
XExpts .
VIII and IX , arts .
51\#151 ; 62 .
S Arts .
63\#151 ; 77 .
|| Under whose able guidance the work was carried out in Bonn , 1892-93 .
1894.1 Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
351 crystals of a mineral somewhat resembling ottrelite have been developed ; a conglomerate , the matrix of which is rather altered , as in the case of certain " Huronian " conglomerates , and a black-garnet micaceous schist , exactly resembling a rock which occurs in the Lepontine Alps at various localities from the neighbourhood of the Lukmanier Pass to the Binnen-Thal .
Several of the schists resemble those which occur in the " upper schist " group ( as defined by one of the authors ) in the Alpine chain .
Certain rather fine-grained speckled gneisses resemble a variety of that rock common in the Blair Athol district ( Scotland ) .
f Among the minerals or vein-specimens , the most interesting is one which presents some resemblance to jadeite .
Microscopic examination shows it to consist of an aggregate of minute minerals , very difficult to distinguish , and chemical analysis suggests that the most probable are lime-garnet , jadeite , saussurite , or an allied mineral , and a pyroxene .
As the specimen was collected from a moraine , its origin is conjectural , but that it was a vein-specimen seems most probable .
The minerals ( among others ) are actinolite , garnet , idocrase , noble serpentine , pyrite , and copper ores .
The geographical distribution of the rocks is described , and it is shown that in these mountains , as in the Alps , remnants of sedimentary rocks , probably of more than one geological era , are folded in among great masses of crystalline rocks , some , doubtless of igneous origin , but others metamorphosed sediments .
It is evident that here , also , the rocks , as a rule , have been greatly modified by the effects of I earth-movements .
V. " Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. V. " By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. Received February 15 , 1894 .
My previous papers were devoted to a description of various products derived from chlorophyll and their qualitative reactions .
In the present communication I propose to give an account of some experiments made with a view to ascertain the composition of some of the derivatives of chlorophyll previously described .
Considerable difficulty was experienced in obtaining quantities of the various substances in a state sufficiently pure for analysis .
This was especially the case with phyllocyanin and phylloxanthin , which , by the methods of purification employed so far , cannot be obtained entirely free from fatty matter .
No attempt was therefore made to determine their composition .
Of the compounds of phyllocyanin there is one , the phyllocyanin cupric acetate , which crystallises well , and has the appearance of a definite compound .
Its composition was

