436 Dr. C. H. Jones on Reversed Tracings .
[ May 27 II .
" Note on Reversed Tracings .
" By C. Handfield Jones M.B. Cantab .
, F.R.S. Received March 22 , 1875 .
Soon after I began to use the sphygmograph 1 was advised by i friend to have the spring ( which only gave a pressure up to 200 grammes changed for one which was capable of giving 400 .
While working with this one day I obtained from the pulse of a healthy man , set .
52 , th .
tracing shown in fig. I. , the pressure employed being 384 grammes .
I is evidently quite an ordinary tracing of a normal pulse , except that it i reversed .
If the glass is turned round and viewed from the non-smoked side the tracing is all en regie ; but viewed from the side on which it wa drawn it is topsy-turvy sideways , if such a phrase be permissible .
1 could not comprehend it , and showed it to a friend more versed ii sphygmography than I was then ; but he could only say that I must hav\lt ; made some strange mistake .
Other good observers thought the tracing !
" very extraordinary , " but could give no explanation of their d'etre .
" Not seeing how I could have erred , I varnished my slide and .put it by , in the hope that I might get to understand it some day .
I noted however , the fact that the pressure was very high , viz. 384 grammes The pressure I usually employ for average pulses is 84 grammes to 140 Continuing to make observations , I noticed occasionally that the lever when moving , behaved in an unusual manner ; instead of jerking up wards , it jerked downwards , while the elevation was gradual ; and this behaviour I found was connected with reversed tracings like my first One of these observations was made on a young man to show the effect o : exertion ( see fig. II .
) .
The tracing taken before exercise , a hard run , if pretty ample , and in other respects normal ; it is marked a. The tw\#171 ; next tracings , b and c , were taken immediately after the run , with th( same pressure , viz. 140 grammes , as employed for a ; they are botl reversed , but the notch is hardly apparent in c. The pressure was now weakened to 84 grammes , and tracing d taken , which is described normally , but , like b and c , is far less ample than a. The reduction in size of the tracing in the three latter observations is undoubtedly due tc cardiac exhaustion , and may be noticed in several of the instances giver in my paper in the Proceedings of the Royal Society , 1873 ( vol. xxi pp. 374-383 ) .
But the reversal of the tracing in b and c seems as if it must be attributed mainly to the employment of a pressure which had become excessive in relation to the systolic force .
As soon as this was lessened , the tracing assumed its proper form .
The evidence of fig. III .
is to the same effect .
It represents two tracings taken by Mr. Hawksley of his own pulse , while I was present , with 8 strong-springed instrument .
The upper ( a ) was taken with a pressure of 300 grammes , the lower ( b ) , which is reversed , with 750 gramme J. The notch is quite as marked in the second as in the first .
But it is certain that excessive pressure does not always produce a reversed tracing .
1875 .
] Dr. C. H. Jones on Reversed Tracings .
Pig .
I. Reversed tracings taten from pulse of a healthy male , set .
52 .
Pressur employed 384 grammes .
1871 .
II .
Tracings from pulse of a man , set .
about 25 .
Pressure employed for a , ft , J* 140 grammes , for d 84 grammes , a is normal , ft and are reversed ; d , taken two or three minutes later , is normal again .
III .
Tracings of pulse of Mr. H. , set .
about 35 , healthy and robust .
at normal , with pressure 300 grammes ; ft , reversed , with pressure 750 grammes .
IV .
Shows effect of increased pressure in lowering rise .
Pulse o ma e , se \#187 ; epileptic , a taken with pressure 56 grammes , ft with 84 grammes , c wi 112 grammes , d with 196 grammes .
, V. Tracings taken with schema , a , spring resting on artery , pressure 2 'z \gt ; \#166 ; jerking upwards ; ft , plate resting on artery , pressure 30 oz. , lever j g downwards .
438 Dr. C. H. Jones on Reversed Tracings .
[ May 27 as is well exemplified in fig. IV. .
; it may even reduce the tracing to a straight line .
Beyond this it seems as if the force of pressure " could nt further go ; " it is unintelligible how , after a sufficient force has been usee to compress the artery , a greater amount of force should produce a fal and subsequent rise .
On further considering these tracings it seemed very important t( determine whether the rise really corresponded to the rise of the norma tracing or not .
The constant presence of the notch in the appareni rise in most cases suggested that this was perhaps not systolic in cardia\lt ; time , but diastolic ; and on examination this proved to be the case ; foi while the sphygmograph applied to Mr. Hawksley 's radial was giving well-marked falls of the lever , at a rate below 70 per minute , I observed by feeling the other radial , that each of the lever coincided exactly with the beat of the pulse , and was therefore systolic in time , so that , oi course , the rise must have been diasystolic .
This conclusion was subsequently confirmed by observations made with a " schema , " every contraction of the ball causing a fall of the lever under circumstances to lx immediately mentioned .
The " schema " employed was rather a rude affair , only a Higginson 's syringe , With a long flexible tube attached , the open orifice of which was obstructed to make the pressure more effectual When the elastic tube was placed under the spring of the sphygmograpb every contraction of the ball jerked the lever up , and produced such a tracing as is represented in a , fig. V. ; but when the tube was shifted a little forwards so as to lie , not under the spring , but under the brass plate just beyond it , then every contraction of the ball produced a sudden of the lever , as shown in 6 , fig. V. The pressure of the brass plate when a was obtained was little more than 2 oz. , when b was obtained it was 30 oz. But that the increase of pressure was not the efficient cause of the lever falling instead of rising is shown by the fact that , in another observation , merely shifting the position of the elastic tube from below the spring to below the brass plate sufficed to make the difference .
Simply raising the brass plate by taking hold of the screw attached tc the framework above it also depressed the lever .
Prom observations recently made by Mr. Hawksley on his arm , we were unable for some time to obtain a reversed tracing , or , rather , the movement of the lever which gives it , although a very high pressure was employed , the spring being made to rest upon the radial artery .
As long as this was the case the lever either remained motionless or jerked upwards ; but when the brass plate at the distal extremity of the instrument was intentionally placed over the artery , the spring being set on one side , the lever was at once jerked downwards , and my friend , who had been sceptical before , was quite convinced that the cause of reversed tracings is the malposition of the instrument .
The only thing which makes me at all hesitate to rest in this conclusion is , that it does not explain why the reversal of the tracing sometimes 1875 .
] Dr. J. Williams on the Discharge of Ova , fyc .
appears to be so closely connected with the existence of an undue amount of pressure .
In fig. II .
I find it rather difficult to think that the degree of pressure did not in some way modify the form of the tracing .
Of course if , as is most probable , reversal of the tracing depends solely on the cause I have pointed out , and can be produced in no other way , no possible effect can be attributed to any alteration of the spring-pressure , as the spring is dissociated from the cause of motion .
The only notice I have found in Marey 's work of any thing like such traces as I have described occurs at p. 282 , where he says :\#151 ; " Type 84 presents a singular peculiarity , the rebound has not had time to finish before the arrival of a fresh pulsation ; the result is a form which might be taken for a tracing inverted ( ecrit en sens ) ; but this depends only on the phenomena of dicrotism not having had time to work themselves out ( s'accomplir ) between two successive pulsations .
" The circumstance that the aortic notch is preserved during the arterial systole taking place under such altered circumstances is noteworthy , and shows the essentiality of this event .
It was remarking the presence of this notch which first made me suspect that the sloping ascent of the inverted tracing was not equivalent to the ascent of the ordinary .
The chief practical lesson to be derived from the foregoing statements is , that we need , in using the Sanderson-Marey sphygmograph , to be very careful that the brass plate is so placed as not to rest upon the artery .
If the artery is pressed on by the spring and the brass plate , the pressure of the latter being materially the greatest , the amplitude of the tracing may be factitiously increased .
If the brass plate alone press on the artery the tracing will be reversed .
I think the arch in the middle of the plate should be much wider than it is often made .
III .
u Note on the Discharge of Ova , and its relation in point of Time to Menstruation .
" By John Williams , M.D. Lond. , Assistant Obstetric Physician to University College Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. Sharpey , F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1875 . !
It is a recognized fact in physiology that ova are discharged in connexion with the menstrual function , but it is uncertain at what time in the course of the month the separation takes place .
It is generally understood to occur towards the end of the discharge , or immediately after its cessation .
I have , however , reason to believe , from observations made in several subjects , that such is not the case , but that it takes place before the appearance of the monthly flow with which it is connected .
The cases which have come under my observation fall into four series , as follows:\#151 ; A. Cases , six in number , in which a Graafian follicle had been matured and actually ruptured .

