Fig. 2 .
p. 343 .
eai A Fig. 1 .
p. 342 .
b aa cc d e aa f g 12 Feet 12 963 A Description of a curious Echinites ; by Mr. Henry Baker , F. R. S. MR. Baker takes the Liberty of showing the Society a very extraordinary Echinites , the like to which he has never seen in any Museum , or found described by any Author .
For the Echinitae usually met with , are made up either of Chalk are Flint , or some stony , chalky , or 7 sparry Read Feb. 26 .
sparry Matter , formed within the Shell of the Echinus , and taking their Figure thence as in a Mould : Which Shell is oftentimes broken off and gone , but remains at other times impregnated with talcy or sparry Particles : Whereas the Subject now laid before us is composed of a transparent crystalline Substance , which has received its general Figure by having been circumscribed within the Shell of some Echinus , and shows linear Ridges and Divisions correspondent to the Lines and Plates found in this kind of Echinus .
Was this all , it would be a very uncommon Production , as these Bodies have been very rarely known to be formed of Crystal * ; but it is rendered much more curious and extraordinary , by having exact Rows and Series of little Cells , all of the same regular Figure , though lessening gradually in Size , as they ascend from the Base upwards .
( Vide Fig. 3 .
This Body having been formed within the Shell of an Echinus , one would expect ( as is the Case in all other Echinitae usually known ) , that its Figure should be exactly answerable to the Mould wherein it was formed ; but Mr. Baker begs Leave to take notice , that the Echinus ' Shell is perfectly smooth internally , having no rising Parts correspondent to these Cells or Cavities ; and therefore , as it could not receive its Configuration from thence , it must be owing to the natural Shooting of the crystalline Matter * Sir Hans Sloane has a Mass , which was formed within an Echinus , the Shell being broken off ; it is one Half or Side Crystal , the other Side Chalk .
Matter ( tho ' unlike every thing of that kind yet described ) , or to some other Cause , which he do n't pretend to know ~ .
The Configuration seems nevertheless in some measure to correspond with the Nature of the Shell wherein it was formed : As to the Number of the Rows of Cells , they being ranged by Fives , as the Papillae , Indentings , Lines , or other Marks on the recent Shells of Echini constantly are ; these Rows are twenty in Number ; viz. five double Ranks of large and extremely regular Cells , as at a a , &amp;c. between which lie five other double Rows of smaller and less distinct Cellulae , shown at b b , &amp;c. These Cells , which are hexagonal , and whereof those in every Row lie alternately to those of the next ( by which means they fill up the whole Space ) , decrease in their Size gradually , as they approach nearer to the Top ; all the Rows at last almost concentring at the Apex , leaving only a small Space or Vacuity , where in the Shells themselves of this kind of Echinus there is an Aperture .
The smooth Part at A is formed of a pebbly Stone , bearing the same Marks as are usually found in the Impression of these Echinitae dug up in Gravel-Pits ; which proves , that this must have received its general Figure from one of those Shells , whatever has been the Cause of this remarkable Configuration of the crystalline Part .
This curious Echinite was found in a Marl-Pit at Baborough , about three Miles West of the City of Norwich , and presented to Mr. Baker by Mr. Wm. Arderon , F. R. S. ~ Perhaps to some Cells or Membranes belonging to the Body of

