41 1889 .
] Gas Flame .
Magnetisation of Cohalt .
I should add that Mr. Fowler has glimpsed a line less refrangible than that at 500 in the spectrum of the ring nebula in Lyra .
If this should turn out to be the carbon fluting at 517 , it would seem that in that nebula we may have a state of condensation between those represented by the nebula ?
of Orion and _A.ndrom.eda , the carbon replacing the X 500 fluting of magnesium in the nebulae , as apparently happens in comets on their approach to perihelion .
III .
" Some Observations on the Amount of Luminous and Non-luminous Radiation emitted by a Gas Flame .
" By Sir John Conroy , Bart. , M.A. , Bedford Lecturer of Balliol College and Millard Lecturer of Trinity College , Oxford .
Communicated by A. G. Vernon Harcourt , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 11 , 1889 .
[ See page 55 .
] IV .
" On the Effects of Pressure on the Magnetisation of Cobalt .
" By C. Chree , M.A. , Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prof. J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received November 22 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) It has long been known , from the classic researches of Dr. Joule , that a rod of iron free from stress increases in length when magnetised in a comparatively weak field .
When , however , the strength of the field is continually raised , it has been found by Mr. Shelford Bidwell that the rod ceases to increase in length , and then shortens , so that in a sufficiently strong field the length becomes less than it was originally .
It has also been found by Villari , Sir W. Thomson , and others that when a rod of iron is exposed to successive loadings and unloadings of a given weight in a magnetic field , there appears a corresponding cyclic change of magnetisation .
In this cyclic change the maximum magnetisation occurs when the load is " on , " or when the load is " off , " according as the field is weaker or stronger than a certain critical field depending on the load , called by Sir W. Thomson the Villari critical field .
Cobalt has been found by Mr. Shelford Bidwell to shorten when magnetised in weak fields , but to lengthen in very strong fields .
The field in which it ceases to shorten is very much higher than the field in which iron ceases to lengthen .
Also in weak fields Sir W. Thomson has found the magnetisation of a cobalt rod under cyclic applications of tension to be least when the tension is " on .
" 42 Mr. C. Chree .
Effects of [ Dec. 19 , Now Professor J. J. Thomson has shown that on dynamical principles the effect of changes of magnetisation on the length of a rod of magnetic metal , and the effect of changes in the length of the rod on the magnetisation , must be fundamentally connected .
In his " Applications of Dynamics to Physics and Chemistry , " he has arrived at mathematical equations connecting the two phenomena , such that from a knowledge of the one set of phenomena the character of the other set can be deduced .
The conclusions derived from the theory are in the case of iron in accordance with the results of experiment , at least in their general character .
In cobalt there is also an agreement between theory and experiment , so far as Sir W. Thomson 's experiments go .
In the absence of further experiments it would , however , be impossible to tell whether or not this agreement extended to the strong fields in which occurred the important phenomena observed by Mr. Shelford Bidwell .
The application of Professor J. J. Thomson 's formulae to JVli .
Shelford Bidwell s results led him to the conclusion that under cyclic applications of pressure a cobalt rod should experience cyclic change of magnetisation , and that the maximum magnetisation should answer to pressure " on , " or to pressure " off , " according as the magnetic field was weaker or stronger than a critical field , corresponding to the Villari field in iron .
It was for the purpose of determining whether such a critical field did actually exist that the present investigation was commenced at Professor J. J. Thomson 's suggestion .
Employing the magnetometric method , it was found that the agreement between theory and experiment was at [ least as satisfactory in cobalt as in iron .
The application of pressure cycles in a magnetic field led to a cyclic change of magnetisation in a cobalt rod , in which the maximum magnetisation occurred when pressure was " on , " or when it was " off , " according as the strength of the field was below or above 120 C.G-.S .
units .
This accordingly was the Villari critical field foreshadowed by theory .
Various phenomena which promised to throw light on the true character of the relations of strain and magnetisation having been noticed at an early period of the investigation , it was decided to'make an attempt to isolate the phenomena , and examine them exhaustively .
In weak fields the first pressure applied after the introduction of the cobalt rod into the magnetising coil caused a large increase in the induced magnetisation .
As the strength of the field was raised this change in the magnetisation attained a maximum , then diminishing vanished in a field considerably stronger than the Villari field for the cyclic effect , and in all stronger fields consisted in a diminution of magnetisation .
The fields in which the cyclic effect of pressure and the effect of the first pressure were absolutely greatest occurred in the 1889 .
] Pressure on the Magnetisation of Cohalt .
48 neighbourhood of the " wende-punkt , " or point where the coefficient of magnetic induction is a maximum .
Relatively , however , to the intensity of the pre-existing induced magnetisation both the effects continually diminished in importance , as the strength of the field was raised from zero .
In the weakest experimental field the first pressure increased the induced magnetisation by over 50 per cent. , and fully 4 per cent , of the magnetisation took part in the cyclic change accompanying the pressure cycles .
In some respects these results present a close resemblance to those observed by Professor Ewing in iron .
^ It was found that the existence of pressure previous to and during the introduction of the rod into a coil traversed by a current had an effect of the same general character , though not exactly of the same magnitude , as the first application of pressure when the rod on its introduction into the coil was free from pressure .
Also on the break of a current during which pressure cycles had been applied , the rod manifested a polar character , in that , when exposed a second time without intermediate demagnetisation to the same strength of current , it possessed a greater intensity of magnetisation when the current passed in one direction than when it passed in the other .
Both these effects had critical fields where they vanished and changed sign , and these fields were close to , if not identical with , the field in which the effect of the first pressure vanished .
In fields below the critical the magnetisation of the rod when exposed a second time , without intermediate demagnetisation , to a current of the same strength as one in which pressure cycles had just been applied was greatest when the direction of the current was unchanged ; but in fields above the critical the reverse was the case .
Both Villari and Professor Ewing observed that after the break of the magnetising current cyclic changes of tension produced eventually in iron wires cyclic changes of the residual magnetisation .
In these the maximum magnetisation answered , as in the induced magnetisation in fields below the Villari point , to tension " on .
" Professor Ewing apparently examined the effect only in weak fields , but he does not seem to have anticipated that it would change its character in stronger fields .
In the present investigation the existence of a cyclic change in the residual magnetisation of cobalt accompanying cyclic changes of pressure has been established , and the magnitude of the effect examined in a large number of fields , extending from 0 to 400 O.G.S. units .
It was found that not only the magnitude but the sign even of the effect depended largely on the condition of the rod during the break of the current .
When the rod was under pressure during the break , the residual magnetisation in the cyclic state showed a maximum under pressure , whatever was the strength of the preexisting field .
When , however , the rod was free from pressure during 44 Effects of Pressure on the Magnetisation of Cohalt .
[ Dec. 19 , the break of the current , it was only in the residual magnetisation left after the weakest fields that the maximum answered to pressure " on .
" When the strength of the pre-existing field was raised , the effect passed through the value zero and changed sign .
In the absence of all pressure during the flow of the current this critical field was only about 18 C.G.S. units .
The application of pressure cycles during the flow of the current raised the critical field to about 30 C.G.S. units , but in fields over 60 C.G.S. units seemed to have extremely little effect .
The intensity of the residual magnetisation when the cyclic effect of pressure vanished was of course in either case only a small fraction of the intensity of the induced magnetisation in the Villari critical field .
In the absence of all pressure the residual magnetisation left after the break of weak fields was very small , but in the weakest experimental fields its amount was increased in the ratio of 4 or 5 to 1 by the application of pressure cycles during the flow of the current .
In fields over 30 C.G.S. units this effect of pressure cycles became extremely small .
The application of the first pressure subsequent to the break of the magnetising current and the removal of a pressure existing during the break of the current were found to shake out a considerable amount of the residual magnetisation .
The percentage shaken out by the application of the pressure was decidedly the higher in strong fields , but in weak fields the reverse was the case when pressure cycles had been applied daring the flow of the current .
Various other kindred phenomena were observed , and the laws of their variation examined .
Most of the results obtained are given in tables , and curves are drawn showing the dependence of the more important effects on the strength of the field .
All the observations were made on a single specimen of cobalt , and by repeating certain of the observations at intervals it was proved that the condition of the specimen mast have remained essentially unaltered while the different phenomena were being examined .
Thus the several effects can be directly compared , and their mutual relationships are not masked by those differences of condition which are sure to exist between different specimens .
An attempt has thus been made from an analysis of the phenomena to attain some knowledge of the true character of the magnetic changes effected by the application of pressure .
The experiments were all conducted in the Cavendish Laboratory , and the author is much indebted to Professor Thomson for the facilities afforded him , and for suggestions as to the form of the apparatus and the methods employed .

