]\gt ; 1885 .
] ometrical Construction of the Bee 's Cell .
IV .
" " On the Geometrical Construction of the Cell of the Honey Bee By HENRY HENNESSY , F.R.S. , Professor of Applied Mathematics in the Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received October 20 , 1885 .
The well-known problem of the bee 's cell occupied the attention of eminent mathematicians early in { he last century , and it is still pre- sented as an interesting example of geometrical maxima and minima .
1743 Maclaurin communicated to the Royal Society a solution of the question , which appears in the " " Philosophical Transactions , it seems that the comparison between the mathematical results and the actual cells was effected by angular measurements .
Long since a imple method occtlrred to me for the construction of the without employing angles , and as I have not been able to find it in any publication , I venture to submit it in this short paper .
A structure has a regular hexagon for its orthogonal cross section , and is terminated by three lozenges which meet in a trihedral angle ; required the relation between the side of one of these lozenges and the side of the regular hexagon forming the cross section of the prism so as to give the smallest surface to the structure . .
long diagonal of one of these lozenges is equal to the side of the equilateral triangle inscribed in the hexagon ; if we call this and the short diagonal then\mdash ; and where is the side of the hexagon , and the difference between the parallel sides of one of the six faces of the prism .
The area of a lozenge is therefore , and that of the face of prism .
For , the total surface of the structure , we have and hence This , equated to zero , gives A side , , of the lozenge is manifestly , hencc which is positive for , and therefore the surface is the least possible .
As the angle at top of the trapezium has for its tangent , this angle is the supplement of for the obtuse angle of the lozenge , found by Maclaurin .
It is manifest that and , or the longer diagonal , is equal to the of a square whose side is the shorter diagonal of the .
Also the acute angle of the lozenge is equal to the acute angle of the trapezium , for the tangent of half the former is From these ilts a model of the bee 's cell can be easily constructed , with the aid of a pair of compasses , as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
Inscribe an equilateral triangle in a hexagon ; side of this triangle is the long diagonal of the lozenge ; bisect this , and the diagonal of a square erected on ths half shorter diagonal of the lozenge .
2 .
Draw six parallel lines at distances equal to the side of the hexagon , and a straight line perpendicular to them from the second of the parallel lines ; inflPct a straight line equal to a side of the lozenge above constructed , and repeat this process until six traare finished .
3 .
On folding these trapeziums a hexagonal prism is formed into which three lozenges equal to that constructed will accurately fit , and the entire strtlcture will be completed .
Models in cardboard have been easily made in this way , and I had one afterwards made in glass .
if

