41 1893 .
] Mr. Poulton .
Colours of but are usually of finer texture .
As in Myxine , they are developed from the club cells , but there are no special glandular involutions of the epidermis .
The club cells of Petromyzon fluviatilis also supply slime threads .
4 .
The granular material of the slime is the contents of vesicular spaces developed in the club cells in the immediate neighbourhood of their nuclei , and is set free enclosed in a lattice work developed by vacuolation of the surrounding material , and finally extruded , carrying with it the original nucleus of the club cell .
5 .
The remainder of the club cell , after extrusion of its vesicle and nucleus , becomes a spirally coiled fibre , which finally breaks up into the fine fibrils of the slime .
6 .
Severe stimulation , especially by the vapour of chloroform applied to the intact animal , causes so sudden a development of the coiled fibres from the club cells that the surface of the epidermis is thrown off and the secretory products set free en mass .
This process is of reflex nature , for similar excitation applied to excised skin is without effect .
7 .
A system of connective tissue cells , distinct from chromatophores exists in the epidermis developed from cells which are direct descendants of leucocytes , and which can be traced from the bloodvessels of the corium through the basement membrane into the epidermis .
The number of these wandering cells in the epidermis is greatly increased by stimulation , probably with a view to providing subsequent support to the secretory elements during regeneration .
IY .
" The Experimental Proof that the Colours of certain Lepidopterous Larvae are largely due to modified Plant Pigments , derived from Food .
" By E. B. POULTON , F.R.S. Received May 12 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this investigation was to afford a conclusive test as to the theory , previously submitted by the author , that some of the colours of certain Lepidopterous larvae are made up of modified chlorophyll derived from the food-plant .
Larvae from one batch of eggs laid by a female Tryphcena pronuba were divided into three lots fed ( in darkness ) respectively throughout their whole life upon ( 1 ) green leaves , ( 2 ) yellow etiolated leaves , and ( 3 ) white mid-ribs of cabbage .
The larvae fed upon ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) became green or brown as in nature , thus proving that etiolin , no less than chlorophyll , can form the basis of the larval groundcolour .
Those fed upon ( 3 ) , in which neither chlorophyll nor etiolin Dr. W. Marcet .
The Influence of Exercise [ June 8 , was accessible , were entirely unable to form the green or brown ground-colour .
The production of dark superficial cuticular pigment was , however , unchecked .
One of the larvae fed in this way was perfectly healthy , and had become nearly mature when it was accidentally killed .
Many others died early , but resembled that last described in the inability to form a ground-colour .
The experiment seems to leave no doubt as to the validity of the conclusions previously reached .
Interesting questions as to the changes passed through by the derived pigments are suggested by this inquiry .
V. " The Influence of Exercise on the Interchange of the Respiratory Gases .
" By W. Maroet , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 18 , 1893 .
I had the honour of communicating two papers to the Royal Society on the interchange of pulmonary gases\#151 ; one in June , 1891 , * and another in June , 1892.f The methods adopted and instruments employed have been fully described , and as the present inquiry is a continuation of the former investigation , carried on by similar methods and with the same instruments , there will be no necessity to refer to either of these on the present occasion .
It might , however , be stated that the expired air was collected in a bell-jar of a capacity of 40 litres* and over salt water ; the C02 was determined by Pettenkofer 's method , and the 0 by means of an eudiometer of a special construction .
A short historical sketch of the work done on the subject under consideration has been given in the previous papers .
I have been very ably assisted in the present inquiry by Mr. Bernard P. Davis , B.Sc. , who kindly submitted to experiment , and carried out for me , with every care , many determinations of carbonic acid and oxygen .
The object of the present communication is to show the influence of exercise on the interchange of pulmonary gases , but I must beg leave to preface the subject with a few remarks .
It has occurred to me that the words " interchange of respiratory gases " might not at first sight carry with them a perfectly clear meaning .
The word interchange " obviously refers to the movement of two gases exchanging places , and this applies to the passage of the oxygen of the air into the blood through the substance of the lungs , * ' Proceedings Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 50 .
+ ' Proceedings Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 52 .

