1892 .
] Colour Photometry .
II .
" Colour Photometry .
Part III .
" By Captain W. DE W. Abney , C.B. , R.E. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and Major-General Festing , R.E. , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1891 . .
f ( Abstract .
) The authors refer to their paper on Colour-Photometry ( Bakerian Lecture , 1886 ) , in which a method was given of forming a curve of luminosity of the spectrum , the source of light being the crater of the i positive pole of an electric arc lamp .
They point out that in making the observations for forming this i curve no attention was paid to the part of the retina of the eye which was used , and which embraced the " yellow spot " and some of the i surrounding portion .
In their further researches this point came to be of importance , and they describe how , by modifications of the apparatus and of the methods of observing , they yrere able to use either the yellow spot or i portions outside it , and they , give the results of the observations , \ showing bow the curves become modified in each case .
The absorption by the yellow spot takes place in all rays more | refrangible than E ; but to the less refrangible rays the outer part of I the retina is less sensitive than the central part .
The Limit of Colour Vision.\#151 ; It is well known that when light of j any colour becomes enfeebled to a certain degree , the eye fails to see | colour , though it may still recognise the existence of light .
Observa-| tions were made to determine the point at which , for each part of the | spectrum , the sensation of colour is lost .
The same apparatus as before was used for forming the spectrum and the " reference " beam | of white light , and a supplementary apparatus was devised for reducing the beam of light and for measuring the amount of reduction .
Each coloured beam was reduced until , in comparison with a feeble white beam , it appeared colourless .
The amount of reduction in each case being measured , a curve was plotted showing the proportional reduction in part of the spectrum .
The absolute intensity of the beam from D having been measured by comparison with an amyl acetate lamp , that of each other part of the spectrum was calculated by aid of the luminosity curve above referred to .
It then became possible to plot a curve which shows the intensity of the original source at which , in each part of the spectrum , colour first becomes 'I visible .
The portion of the spectrum in which colour is visible from the feeblest source is between about A , 500 and A , 615 .
This accounts for the fact that in a feeble light , such as that of the moon , objects appear to be of a greenish hue , and also that moonlight passing through coloured windows does not give a coloured image in most cases .
Capt. Abney and Major-General Festing .
[ Jan. 28 , } Extinction of the Light of .
different Parts of the Spectrum.\#151 ; A. full , description is given of the apparatus used and of the method of i observation for determining how much the light of each part of the spectrum must he reduced in order that it may be extinguished .
Observations were made ( 1 ) with the central part of the eye only and ( 2 ) with the whole eye .
From these observations curves were plotted , showing the proportion of the beam from each part of the spectrum which was just not visible .
These are called extinction curves .
They differ only in that part of the spectrum where the yellow spot absorption takes place .
The minimum ordinate is at about X 5300 , and represents 65/ 107 , that being the proportion to which the beam had been reduced at extinction , the intensity of the unreduced .
beam from D in the same spectrum being that of an amyl acetate lamp at 6 feet .
The intensity of other beams of the spectrum was calculated from this by the aid of the luminosity curve as before .
A curve was then derived from each of the extinction curves by taking as ordinates the product of such ordinate of an extinction curve and the luminosity of the corresponding beam ; these derived curves then represent ( on the supposition that all the beams were originally of the same luminosity as D ) , the proportion , and therefore the absolute intensity , of any beam which would be just not visible .
These two curves differ slightly at the part affected by the yellow spot , but that for the whole eye is horizontal from the extreme violet end to about X 4800 ; it then rises rapidly to X 6840 , and again becomes horizontal .
This seems to confirm the view that a single sensation only is excited by each of the ends of the spectrum .
The reciprocals of the ordinates of either of the first two extinction curves being taken , what is called a " persistency " curve is formed .
The curve for the whole eye and that for the central portion are given .
It is reasonable to expect that the " persistency curve should have relation to some colour sensation of the eye , which may perhaps be looked upon as the dominant sensation , as it is excited by the smallest quantities of light .
An examination with the results of observations made by colourblind people is then entered on .
A gentleman , M. , made a series of observations .
He has two colour sensations only , which he calls " red " and " black .
" Yellow he describes as " white , " green as " bright black , " blue as " darker black .
" His luminosity curve has been plotted on such a scale that the red portion corresponds with that of the normal curve .
The rest , however , falls below this , and it leaves off a little beyond F. The curve formed by the differences of his and the normal ordinates may be considered to be M. 's deficiency curve .
Two brothers , P. and Q. , were also examined .
They have the sauie 1892* ] Colour Photometry .
371 vision , which is monochromatic .
Their luminosity curve , M. 's deficiency curve , and the normal persistency curve correspond very nearly except in the part affected by the yellow spot .
It therefore appears as if P. and Q. had only the sensation which is looked upon as the dominant sensation in the normal eye , and of which M. 's eye is devoid , and thart P. 's and M. 's eyes together would make up a normal eye .
The results are also given of the examination of the vision of a red-blind ( H. R. ) and of a green-blind person ( V. H. ) .
Their u persistency " curves , as well as that of P. , nearly correspond generally with each other and with that of normal vision .
The " absolute intensity " extinction curves of H. R. and V. H. also do not differ notably from the normal ; but in P. 's case the ordinates are larger , from which it may be inferred that his sense of vision is less acute .
Assuming blue , green , and red to be the three primary sensations , P. 's and Q. 's luminosity curve or M. 's deficiency curve would represent the first , and V. H. 's deficiency curve the second , but H. R. 's deficiency curve would not quite represent the third , as he is not entirely devoid of appreciation of red .
Luminosity Curve of Spectrum of Low Intensity.\#151 ; The normal persistency curve being apparently the same as the luminosity curve of persons with but one colour sensation , experiments were made to determine what would be the luminosity to the normal eye of the different parts of a spectrum of a very low intensity .
A spectrum was formed of which the beam from D was equal in intensity to 1/ 132*5 of an amyl acetate lamp at 1 foot .
The luminosity curve of this was found to correspond very nearly to that of P. , and to the normal persistency curve .
By reducing the light in less degrees , luminosity cur.vcs were produced corresponding to those of persons more or less red-blind .
Experiments were then made to ascertain whether this change in the relative luminosities of the different rays would continue to vary with constantly increasing intensity of the light , or whether a point would be reached after which the curve , when it had the same maximum ordinate , would be constant .
A beam being taken from one point in the spectrum , it was compared with the reference ( white ) beam .
Rotating sectors were placed in both beams , and equality of luminosity thereby produced .
The aperture of one set of sectors being varied , the alteration of the other which was necessary to re-establish the equality of illumination in each case was noted .
Curves were then plotted for several rays , of which the ordinates represent the apertures in the coloured beams \amp ; nd the abscissae those in the white beam when the illumination is oqual .
Clearly , if these curves ever became straight lines for all parts of the spectrum , the luminosity curve would become constant .
372 Dr. C. R. Alder Wright .
[ Jan. 28 , I This was found to be the case .
The curve of the beam from scale I No. 46'3 of the spectrum ( about A. 5613 ) was found to be straight from the origin .
Those of beams of greater refrangibility were at first concave to the axis of abscissae , those of less refrangibility convex ; but all had become straight before an intensity of 1/ 60 of an amyl acetate lamp at 1 foot had been reached .
III .
" On certain Ternary Alloys .
Part V. Determination of various Critical Curves , and their Tie-lines and Limiting Points .
" By C. R. Alder Wright , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics in St. Mary 's Hospital Medical School .
Received November 19 , 1891 .
The triangular method of graphical representation suggested by Sir G.G. Stokes , and described in Part IV ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 49 , p. 174 ) , substantially amounts to the tracing out of a curve ( " critical curve " ) which shall express the saturation of the solvent C with a mixture in given variable proportions of the other two constituents , A , B ; the variation being such that any given point on the curve is related to some other point ( " conjugate point " ) in a way given by the consideration that all mixtures of the three constituents , A , B , C , represented by points lying on the line ( " the-line " ) joining these two conjugate points ( " ideal " alloys , or mixtures ) , will separate into two different ternary mixtures corresponding with the two points respectively ; whereas any mixture of the same constituents , represented by a point lying outside the critical curve , will form a " real " alloy , or mixture , not separating spontaneously into two different fluids but existing as a stable homogeneous whole .
The experiments described in Part IV unmistakably point to the conclusion that whenever sufficiently intimate and prolonged intermix-tur e of the three constituents can be , there is no variation whatever in the position of the point experimentally determined as conjugate to some other given point on the curve , no matter what may be the proportions subsisting between the three constituents employed ; but that when metals are used , the practical difficulty in effecting thorough intermixture by stirring when molten is occasionally so great as to lead to slight , but sensible , differences in the composition of the ternary alloys formed simultaneously with some one given alloy approximately conjugate thereto , in different cases where the relative proportions of the constituents are materially different .
A large number of additional experiments on this point have been made , the general result of which is completely to corroborate and

