]\gt ; 537 VIII .
Account of Pendnlnm mining the relative of Gravity at the Greenwich Observato r GENERAL J. T. WALKER , C.B. , , LL. D. ( numcated at the requcst of the mittec .
) pril 15\mdash ; Read , 1890 .
THE recent pendulum observations for the purpose of determining the ayity connexion between the Observatory at reenwich and the Royal Society 's Observatory at Kew , were undertaken in order to improve and then the connexion between the Indian sel.ies of ulum operations and other series taken in other parts of the world The Indian series had been carried , in the years 1865 to 1873 , when two inyariable pendulums , the property of the Royal Society , which had been by Captain KATER for the purpose of investigating the relative force of gravity in different latitudes , were at the Kew Observatory , and at various places in and on the way to India , in the course of the operations of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India .
The work was originated at the suggestion of the esident of the Royal Society , General Sir E. ; the .
portion was performed by ptain J. P. BASEVI , R.E. , who lost his life from exposure while operating on the high )blelands of the Himalayan Monntains ; the remainder was by Captain W. J. HEAVISIDE , R.E. ; both officers acted under the personal superintendence of Genel.al J. T. WALKER , the Superintendent of the Great Trigonometrical Survey .
The points at which the pendulums were and the number of ation s they made in 24 hours were determined , were tions of the Arc of the Suryey which from Comorin to the Himalayan Mountains ; a few stations were added on the East and West Coasts of India , and on lring islands , and at Aden and ilia .
The base station of the ies of operations\mdash ; that is to , the one at which they were cornmenced conclnded\mdash ; was the Royal Society 's tory at Kew , near Richmond , Surrey .
With a view to effecting a connexion between the operations in and milar operations recently completed in Russia , and also for other reasons , two ersi b pendulums , the property of the Russian Tmperial Acadelny of Sciences , which ] been employed in Russia , were sent out to India and .
at some of the Indian stations , , with the pendulums of the Society .
CCXC .
For the ) of connecting Indian operations with those taken by KATER , other observers in various parts of the globe , , was intended to the Royal Society 's pendulums , on their return to England , at the Royal tory , Greenwich , which was station of various important series of operations .
when the rrived , in 1873 , it found that exterlsive preparations were being made in the Observatory for several expeditions which were being outfitted for the observation of the approaching transit of Venus , so that no space was left available for the pendnlum operations .
It was therefore decided to make the desired connexion by KATER'S tible pendulum , for determining the absolute length of the seconds ' pendulum in any latitude , at Kew , as already it had been swung by SABINE at Greenwich .
This was done Captain HEAVISIDE , and was the last of the Indian pendulum operations ; the results were published in vol. 5 of the ' Account of the Operations of the Trigonometrical Survey , ' Dehra Dun , 1879 , which gives full details of all the operations , including the with the Russian pendulums .
The absolute of the seconds ' pendulum , in , at Kew , was found to be inches of the British standard yard , in 1873 , whereas at Greenwich , SABINE had found it to be inches of Sir GEORGE dard scale , in Thus it would seem that a seconds ' pendulum will make about three more vibrations in 24 hours at Kew than at Greenwich .
But the two Observatories are nearly in the same latitude , and differ very little in height , and are only ten miles apart ; thus this diffel.ence is much too large to be accepted as trustworthy .
In his work on Geodesy , Colonel CLARKE , C.B. , R.E. , of the Ordnance Survey of a large number of pendulum determinations in various parts of the globe to the .
of the earth .
He remarks that the selection of Kew , instead of London or Greenwich , as the base station for the Indian series of , was unfortunate ; and , the connexion of Kew with Greenwich by the two determinations of the of the seconds ' pendulum , he employs the ratio of to London from the observations of GOLD1-XGHAM and SABINE , and that of Kew to St. Petersburgh , by HEAVISIDE and SAWITSCH .
Then he makes four different combinations of his data , fro1n which he obtains as many values of the earth 's ellipticity ; and for each value he the corresponding system of quantities , , indicating the apparent excess or defect of the observed over the theoretical force of gravity at each station of observation ; one combination gives Kew an excess of vibrations over London ; another gives it an excess of tions over Greenwich , but reduces the excess over London to vibrations .
These figures indicate variations in the vibration numbers such as are usually met with on changes of latitude of 1 to 2 degrees , and they show thac the actual relation of Greenwich to has roccntly been that very little , if any , of the difference can be due to error of the nnit of the } scaIe as compared the standard yard .
No. 288 of the 'Proceedings of tho Royal ociuty ' .
THE RELATIyE FORCE OF GRAVITY AT ) ] Kew had not yet been precisely determined , special observations were still required for bhe purpose .
In 1881 , Colonel HERSCHEL , R.E. , was deputed by the Secretary of State for to take pendulnm oservations at the Greenwich and the Kew Observatories ; also at some places in America , with a view to making a xion with the operations of the Coast and Geodetic Survey of the United States .
He employed the two of the Royal Society which had been used in the Indian operations , and a third pendulum ofprecisely similar construction which had been osited in the Kew Observatory by the , the experience already ined in India having shown that the employment of a third pendulum was desirable .
After completing his swings in and America , he made over the three pendulums to officers of the United States ' Survey , who took them round the world , and swung them t Auckland , Sydney , Singapore , Tokio , ancisco , and finally at Colonel HERSCIfEL'S station in Washington .
* When the obseryations came to be finally reduced , it found that the results between Kew and Greenwich by the three pendulums were largely discordant , one Kew an excess of vibrations , another an excess of , while the third gave a defect of vibrations .
It was obviously ssary that the pen dulums should be swung at the two places , in order to a more sati , sfactory determination of the relative tion numbers .
Fresh swings were therefore made at Kew in 1888 , and at Greenwich in the year .
operations were performed by members of the Observatory staff at each place , Mr. HOLLIS taking the lead and responsibility at Greenwich , under the direction of the Astronomer and Mr. at Kew , under the Superintendent of the Kew The final results give a vibration number for Kew which diifers by less vibration from that at Greenwich , and may be accepted as very fairly probable .
It is the object of the present ( to give an abridged account of the )bove operations , both the primary by Colonel CHEL , and the revisionary by Messrs. HOLLIS and For this it is necessary , in the first instal ] , to give brief descriptions of the pendulurns , of adopted ) the rent observers .
Description of the All three pendulums are of Invariable Pattern ; they are made of with a steel knife-edge at the head of each pendulum , and they are of very nearly the same dimensions .
One is numbered 4 and ) ; the * Full details of the operations and results are given in ndix No 14 of of United ateS Coast and Getic s for 1884 .
details of Colonel HERSCHEL'S operations , in manu ripped , were over to the Society for record , by the Serretary of State for India ; the ) of the other operations eCord o in the in which they ctively took place .
no such distinguishing number , but is marked , presumably the year in which it cted ; Colonel HERSCHEL believes that it is probably No. of the series , and has so called it .
No. 4 was employed by SABINE in his operations between the par.allels of South and North Latitude , in 1822-23 ; and No. 6 ( 1821 ) was used by the late Astronomer Royal , Sir GEORGE AIRY , in experiments in the Harton Colliery Pit , in 1854 , to determine the earth 's mean density ; these two are the pendulums of the Society were employed hout the operations in India .
No. 11 was used by , in London , in 1832 , and by MACLEAR , at the Cape of Good Hope , in 1839 ; ib was ards lent for a while to the Admiralty , and eventually deposited in the Kew Observatory .
pendulum is filrnished with a pair of agate planes , on which it is intended to be swung .
The planes are set on either side of a half-inch opening in a solid brass , which is mounted on a plate at the head of the receiver , and is provided with three levelling crews ; outside the frame there is a pair of moveable arms carrying , in which the ) rests while not , and on lowering which the knife edge cones in contact v-ith agate planes for vibration .
The pendulum is placed midway between the supI ) orting planes by hand and eye estimate , but it is always brought by the 's down on to the same line across the planes , in all positions of the pendulum , whether the marked face is pointing towards the observer or towards the clock .
The of the pendulum is invariable , excepting from change of temperature for which the correction to the vibration-number is known .
The shape is that of a flexible bar of ] brass , 62 long , inch broad , and inch thick from the knife edge downwards for a distance of about 40 inches , where a flat circular bob , inches in diameter and inch thick , with a bevelled edge , is soldered on to the bar ; il piece , below the bob , is reduced to a breadth of inch , and is about I6 inches long .
The bar is necessarily very flexible , its thickness being less than a tenth of its breadth , and flexibility is greatly in contrast with the rigidity of the pendulums .
KATER is believed to have adopted a flexible form of bar in ) reference to a rigid bar designedly , under the impression that it was less likely to permanently bent by accident , and more likely to acquire exact lity when its -edge is resting on f , he agate planes during the course of the vibrat.ions .
The Processes of nipulation .
When the pendulums were sent out to India , it was intended that they should always be swung as nearly as possible in a vacuum .
For this purpose a receiver of sheet ] ) , mounted on a substantial and well braced wooden staud , was furnished for the to be swung ; the receiver was closed above by a hemispherical glass cap , which could nloved at pleasure the sertion or withdl'all.al .
of a pendulum .
Two thermometers were fixed in a dummy pendulum , of the same slze as THE RELATIVE FORCE OF GRAVITY AT AND the dulum less the tail-piece , which was fixed inside the receiver .
In the Indian operations , the air was always exhausted to lowest pressure , and the vibration-n lmber oined at pressure reduced to the vactlum corrections , which will be afterwards described .
At first the receiver found to leak slightly , the pressure rising about an inch in the course of a ; but eventually this leakage was traced to the two one rod passes for lowering the -edge on , or raising it off , the planes , and another rod for setting the pendulum in motion ; the leaks stopped by fitting cups round the necks of the rods , and keeping them filled with oil .
When the apparatus came into Colonel TfERSCHEL'S hands much was met with at the lower pressures .
He continued to use the receiver , but he did not attempt to obtain low pressures , and he abandoned the reduction to the vacuum ; his pressures between 26 and 28 inches , and his observations were reduced to an adopted standard pressure of 26 inches , with the temperature of the air at F. The was adopted when the pendulums were by the of the United States ' Coast and Geodetic Survey .
But when the apparatus was returned to England , the receiver was repaired and made thoroughly air-tight before the at Kew and Greenwich were commenced ; then half the swings at each place were taken under a pressure of about 2 inches , and the other half at about 27 inches ; results were reduced to a vacuum in both cases , by the same formula , which ] be iven hereafter .
For each invariable pendulum the -number is determined } ) it in front of the pendulum of a clock and observing the times of the first and last coinci- dences of the two pendulums , at the becrinning and end of a set of swings ; also the lime of a coincidence immediately following the first , in order to get an approximate of the interval between successive coincideIlces ; thus the number swings made by the inyariable pendulum during a given amount of clock time , is ascertained by observation , and from it the number of swings in 24 hours is .
after making due allowance for clock rate , arc of vibration , temperature , and pressure .
The clock employed in the Indian and subsequent was one by SHELTON , which had been used for the same by .
The invariable ) elldulums make 200 to 300 vibrations daily less than the pendulum of a clock regulated to solar time , and bout twice that number to siderial time , For the observations of coincidence , in the Indian operations , a circular disc metal was mounted on the bob of the clock pendulum , and an of it , 1ade slightly less in diameter than the breadth of the tail-piece of the ) pendulum , was produced , by an intermediate lens , in the plane of the tail-piece .
would disappear for a meant and then ) behind the -piece at every apparent conjunction of the two pendulums ; and these conjunctions occur ] both pendulums are swinging in the same direction , the conjunctions , with the in opposite directions , being unobservable .
The ex noment of 542 WALKLR ON NDULUM OPERATIONS FOR TERMlNING was at first deduced from observations of the disappearance and reappearance of both edges of the disc ; but after a short time , this was considered unnecessary , and one edge only was observed , the same throughout each of Colonel HEBSCHEI , subsituted for the large disc a system of multiple discs consisting of several pairs of small circles , symmetrically on opposite sides of a central vertical line , and painted white on a piece of bla.ck cardboard which was attached to the bob of clock pendulum .
He designed a large variety of systems , one of which is here shown .
He observed the times of disappearance and re-appearance of several pairs of discs , eventually retaining five pairs onIy , of which the general mean was taken as the moment of coincidence .
The United States ' officers adopted one of Colonel HERSCHEL'S discs , but observed on only one side of the tail-piece and not on both sides as he done .
In the revisionary operations at Kew and Green- wich , a large disc , of which the image wa made of nearly the same diameter as tail-piece , was employed , and observations of disappearance and re-appesxance were made on one side only , as in Tndia .
In the Indian and the revisionary operations the times of the three and the three last coincidences in each set of swings were observed , and the means were employed to indicate the moments of commencement and conclusion of the set ; the observed intervals between successive coincidences the divisor to the duration of the set to find the total number of intervals which is wanted in calculating the vibration-number .
In Colonel HERSCHEL'S operations one or two discs were observed *Very great precision in the determination of the moment of coincidence is unnecessary .
If be the vibration-number of a pendulum , the clock vibrations in a mean solar day , and the clock vibrations during a set of swings in which tbere are intervals between visible coincidences , then 1 \mdash ; and Let , let the duration of the set of swings be 6 hours and the interval between coincidences 6 minutes , giving , then Thus an error of 4 in N. whioh is impl'obably large , would not affect the vibration-number ns much as , which is but a fraction of the probable error from other causes .
LATIVE FORCE OF GRAVITY AT KEW ANY ) GREENWICH .
immediately after the initial observations of coincidence , to obtain the interval between successive coincidences .
In the Indian operations the agate planes were always carefully levelled before the pendulum was set up on them , and the level readings , as taken before and after the swings by each pendulum , were recorded and published .
As the pendulum is necessarily made to vibrate with its tail-piece a short distance in front of the scale for measuring the arc of vibration , this distance was read off on a scale fixed at right angles to the arc-scale , to enable the observed arc reading to be duly corrected ; and it was measured in the two positions of the truments , both with the marked face towards the observer and towards the clock .
Thus , as the knife-ecige was always lowered by the 's down to the same line on the agate planes , and as the planes were always horizontal , half the difference between the distances of the tail-piece from the arc-scale , in two positions , indicates the itude of any deviation of the bar of the pendulum , at the tail-end , from perpendicularity to the knife-edge .
These distances were always recorded , and they show that both the pendulums were bent , but that the bending was practically constant throughout the whole of the operations ; marked face of Pendulum No. 4 deflected 5 inch outwards , and that of No. 6 ( 1821 ) 3 inch backwards , at the tail-end .
As , however , a genelal constancy was preserved throughout , the whole of the results were truly differential .
Colonel HERSCHEL commenced his operations at Kew by swinging No. 4 pendnlum in the condition in which he found it .
He soon not , icecl bends in both the two pendulums , and also found that the knife-edges were somewhat rusted .
There was reason to suspect that the pendulums might have received some injuries when set up at one of the great Annual Exhibitions in South Kensington which was held a few years after their return from India .
Consequently both the pendulums were straightened and their knife-edges were re-ground .
, of course , causes a break of continuity .
with the antecedent operations with these pendulums , and destroys the differentiality of the vibration numbers obtained before and afterwards .
In the revisionary operations at Kew and Grecnwich the pendulnms were swung in the same condition as when employed by HERSCHEL itnd the officers of the United States .
In the Indian operations each set of swings was usually of about 9 hours ' duration , from 8 .
to 5 te readings of the eters and observations of coincidence being taken at intervals of about hour apart .
When all the observations were finally reduced it was seen that , whenever the daily ariation of temperature was considerable , the clock rate at different hours of the day varied sensibly from the mean daily rate ; thus it was evident that the vibration-number , which depends on the actual clock rate during the set of swings , but is deduced from the mean daily rate which is derived from successive transits of the same stars , might much influenced by variations of rate occurring during the part of the day when the pendulum is under 544 WALKER ON PLNDULUM RATIONS ThRMINING Colonel HERSCHEL got over this difficulty , and eliminated the influence of hourly variations of clock rate , by linking successive sets of swings together so as to up the whole 24 hours .
He made the tion of each set of his swings somewhat less than 6 hours , taking all necessary observations of temperature , coincidence , \amp ; c. at the commencement alJd conclusion of the set , but without any intermediate observations ; ediately after the conclusion of one set he commenced the next set .
In this way observations were sometimes carried on continuously for two or three days by himself his assistant .
the revisionary operations at Kew a simllar procedure was adopted ; the temperatures and coincidences in the intervals between the beoo.inning and end of each set were generally observed also , and the temperatures when not observed were recorded on a thermograph .
At Greenwich observations were made at 10 , and 10 .
; the swings at low pressure were divided into two sets of 6 hours each and one set of 12 hours , so as to fill up the 24 hours ; thoss at high into two sets of 6 hours each , to fill up 12 hours .
The temperatures between the thermometer readings were registered by a rraph .
daily range of temperature was very small at Kew , and rarely as much as 1o F. Greenwich .
At both pl ces the time was derived electrically from the siderial standard clock at Greenwlcl ] , which is fixed in the basement of the Obseryatory , where here is no sible diurnal variation of temperature .
Under the actual circumstances there was no real necessity for continuous cbservations throughout the 24 hours to control the clock rate .
The differences in procedure and manipulation which have been pointed out thus far are not such as to have affected the results sensibly ; but in one other matter there was a difference of procedure which might have materially influenced the results .
Colonel HERSCHEL did not maintain the a. , gate planes in exact horizontality ; he believed that when the planes were truly level , and the pendulum was set up on them , the knife-edge , if pressed down against them by hand , was found to be not truly in contact with the planes throughout the line of bearing : consequently he dislevelled the planes until the contact , as judged by touch , was thorough , and then he commenced swinging the pendulum .
Such imperfect contact was never noticed in the Indian operations ; it is possible with pendulums having a rigid bar , when the knife-edge is not truly perpendicular to the bar ; but with pendulums such as these , which have a very flexible bar , it seems scarcely possible , at least without a grosser displacement of the knife-edge from the perpendicular than is at all probable .
The ofticers of the Uuited States who swung these several stations have been questioned on this point , and Mr. EDWIN SMITH reports that after levelling he " " tested the contact of the knife-edges with the agate planes by touch and found it impracticable to make any change , so the pendulums were always swung with the planes levelled with the spirit level In the revisionary swings this was done also .
CoIonel HERSCHEL does not appear to have measured actual dislevelment of the gate planes which was caused by method of treatment ; had he done so and his nlise been COl.rect , the magnitude of the dislevelment would been same THE RELATIVE FORCE OF GRAVITY AT AND GREENWICH .
after as it was before each transposition of the pendulum , but its would have changed , because its direction would been reversed .
The record of the observations gives no level dings , nor does it give the distances between the arc-scale in the two positions of vibration .
All that is know ] ] is the planes were not maintained in a position constant horizontaIity , all other operations .
Thus the results are not strictly differential , and it is to be inferred that the large discrepancies met with between different groups of results , even when the individual results in each group highly accordant , due to this cause .
The results of the several operations will now be given .
COLONEL SULTS , REDUCED TO TEMPERATURE OF F. , AND TO THE DENSITY OF THE AIR UNDER PRESSURE OF 26 INCHES AT THE TEMPERATURE OF F. Obs ) PRELIMINARY Vibration-numbers of Pendulum No. 4 , before straightening the bar and re-grinding the knife-edge .
When this result is reduced to a vacuum , it may be compared with the results of the swirgs by the pendulum at the same place which were obtained for the Indian operations .
The reduction to the cuum may be tely taken , which gives the vibration-number , to compare with obtained in 1864 , before the pendulum was sent out to India , and obtained in 1873 , after its return from India .
11 DCCCXCt .
\mdash ; A. It will be seen that the mean value is fairly in accordance with the values derived from Colonel HERSCHEL'S observations with pendulums No. 4 and No. 6 ( 1821 ) .
His swings with those pendulums , at Kew , were made in the basement of the Kew Observatory , within a few feet of the spot at which the revisionary swings , with all three pendulums , were made ; but he .
pendulum No. 11 in a shed outside the Observatory , under circumstanc , es of great disadvantage as regards the stability and firmness of the support of the stand of the invariable pendulum and also of the support of the clock .
Thus his observations at Kew , with pendulum No. 11 , though generally very accordant inter , are very probably burdened with a large constant error , and must therefore be reiected .
On the Reduction to In , all pendulum experiments\mdash ; even those of a purely differential character , as with invariable pendulums\mdash ; it has been generally customary to apply a correction for the retardation which is caused by the air , in order to obtain results such as would been obtained if the pendulum bad been swnng in a vacuum .
This correction was originally determined by calculating the influence of the buoyancy of the atmosphere in diminishing the weight\mdash ; and consequently the accelerating force\mdash ; of the pendulum .
Afterwards BESSEL showed that the correction thus obtained was too small , for the pendulum is accompanied in its oscillation by a certain ] amount of air , varying with its form , which increases the mass in vibration and the moment of inertia .
Thus the buoyancy correction has to be multiplied by a factor , , which can be computed mathematically for pendulums of certain simple forms , but must be determined experimentally , by swings at high and low pressures , when the form is not susceptible of being brought under mathematical treatment .
The buoyancy correction , thus augmented , is usually called the pressure correction .
The buoyancy correction and the pressure correction have been investigated for pendulums No. 4 and No. 6 ( 1821 ) by special and laborious series of operations which are fully set forth in vol. 5 of the 'Account of the Operations of the Great Trignometrical Survey of India .
' Nothing of the kind is known to have been done for No. 11 ; but the results obtained for the two first pendulums are so closely accordant that they may be applied without objection to the third , which is almost identical with them in form and construction .
The buoyancy correction in which is the pressure in inches , and the ) erature in degrees of FAHRENHEIT .
The pressure correction was found to be ) by experimental swings which were made specifically for the purpose at Kew , under extreme high and low pressures , immediately before the pendulums were senG out to India .
Corrections determined by this formula were applied , provisionally , to the whole of the THE RELATIVE FORCE OF GRAVITY AT AND NWICH .
swings in India ; and this has also been done to the revisionary swings at Kew and Greenwich , to produce th -numbers which have already been set forth .
But , in the course of the operations in India , Captain BASEVI botl ] the temperature and the pressure corrections of his two pendulums , those of No. 4 with great elaboration .
A series of several sets of made with it at each of the successive pressures of , 4 , and ches , at the ture of about anothel sel.ies at the same pressures , at the temperature of about ; and a third at the pressures of and inches and temperature of about .
He came to the conclusion that the pressure COl'rection is best represented by an empirical ] of three terms , in which the second term is the correction for buoyancy .
Then he assumed A to be and being the absolute / of the air thermometer\mdash ; and formed a corresponding series of eqnations for the ation of and from his fourteen sets of .
The solutionl of these equations gave , and , which values satisfied the equations of condition very satisfactorily .
But the subject is one of great complexity and difficulty , as will be seen in consulting Chapter VI .
of the Indian pendulum volume .
Something to be wanting to explain the inconsistencies between umbers derived from different series of very accordant observations which are occasionally met with .
Possibly it may be necessary to take cognisance of the atmospheric humidity during the observations , which has never been done hitherto .
Or it may be that t inconsistencies arise from changes in the relative conditions of the bearing surfaces of ) knife-edge and the a , gate planes , which met with on successive transpositions of the pendulum , and which the observer cannot trol .
Transposition is almost invariably attended with change iu the vibration-n umber ; but in the Indian operations it was found that the changes not constant in either sign or magnitude ; it is shown , page L14 of the volume eady cited , that , for the whole of the 34 stations of observation , the mean value of \mdash ; ranges from , and has an average value .
Peudulum No. 4 , and ranges from to , with the aversge value for dulum No. 6 .
In reducing the Indian swings for the pressul.e correction , BASEVI'S observatioIJS of the vibration-numbers at different pressures were ) ] oyed directly , without having recourse to his empirical mula .
The observed vibration- numbers at each pressure were reduced to a vacuum by the Kew formula with the numerical constant , and then the results for the higher pressures were compared with the result for the lowest pressure , which , being of an inch , was very close to the vacuum ; and it found that the higher pressures required ) tive corrections , increasing with the temperature as well as the at the highest 556 GENERAL ON PENDULUAf OPERATIONS FOR DETERMINING pressure , inches , the correction amounted to 53 under the tempera , ture of and to under the temperature of Corresponding corrections were therefore applied to the whole of the Indian swings , as they had already been provisionally reduced by the Kew formula .
This must be done for the revisionary swings at Kew and Greenwich , the results of which , as hitherto presented , have been reduced to the vacuum by the Kew formula only .
It will be seen that the vibration-numbers at the pressure of inches are less than those at the pressure of 2 inches by at Kew and at nwich ; but it appears from Captain BASEyI'S investigations that the high pressure results at both places should be increased by about which will reduce the discordances with th low pressure results to and When pendulum operations are differential , and the variations ofatmospheric pressure , at different stations , are small , the value ) the correction for pressure does not require to be known with much accuracy .
Reducing to a vacuum is also then unnecessary , and any convenient standard of atmospheric density may be employed instead .
Thus Colonel IIERSCHEL has sufficiently provided for the elimination of the effects of variations of pressure at his stations , which were all of low elevation , by reducing his swings to the standard pressure of 26 inches under the temperature of.32o F. , instead of to a vacuum .
The Indian swings were invariably reduced to a vacuum , in accordance with previous procedure .
They were made in an exhausted receiver , under the lowest pressure attainable , partly because this bled them to be extended over a longer time , and thus be less influenced by hourly variations of clock-rate , thau if taken under full pressure ; partly because the receiver would protect the pendulum from the action of currents of air ; and partly to obtain as nearly a uniform pressure at all the ions as possible , and thus secure strictly differential results ; for it was intended that the pendulums should be swung both at low in the neighbourhood of the ocean and at the highest attainable elevations , as on the table-lands of the Himalayan mountains , where the pressure of the atmosphere is halfway down to the vacuum , that a considerable range of pressure had to be met with and provided for in the best way possible .
By exhausting the receiver , the pressures under which the swings were actually taken were generally maintained between 1 and 2 inches , excepting at first , when slight leakage was met with , the locus of which was not immediately ected , and then the pressures ranged from 1 to 4 inches .
Bnt these differences of pressure are so small that the uncertainty as to the precise amount of the pressure correction cannot exert an appreciable influence on the differential results which have already been deduced , and which are the ultimate object of the observations .
And this is the case also both in Colonel HERSCHEL'S and in the revisionary operations , the range of pressure being always under 2 inches , whether the swings were taken under high pressures only or under both high and low pressures .
Thus , a more exact knowledge of the correction for pressure might sensibly affect THE RELATIVE FORC OF GRAVITY AT KE AND GREENWICH .
the vibration-numbers for Kew and Greenwich which have already been presented ; but it would not atiect the differences between those numbers , which are what is really wanted , to a degree that is at all comparable with the errors to which pendulum observations are liable from other causes .
REDUCTION To THE SEA-LEVEL .
The were at an elevation above the mean sea-level of abont 15 feet at Kew and 157 feet at Greenwich .
The vibration-numbers must be correspondingly increased .
The well-known formula for the correction for height is Correction V being the vibration-number , the height , and the radius of the earth .
Dr. YOUNG has suggested that account should also be taken of the continental mass whicir is between the level of the sea and that of the station of observation , in increasing the force of attraction and consequently the vibration-number .
Thus , in accordance with his views , the usually-accepted correction takes cognisance of both height andlnass , and is Thus for these pendulums , when is expressed in feet , we have Correction for height on lie Correction for height and mass It is now , however , very questionable whether any reduction for mass is allowable .
pendulum operations in India have thrown much on the constitution of the earth 's crust , and shown that there is a marked deficiency of density under the Himalayan mountains , and an increase of density under the loed of the Indian Ocean .
Thus continental matter above the sea level may be conceived as appertaining to strata underneath , immediately below the sea level , which are correspondingly attenuated .
In this case , the excess of matter above would probably compensate the deficiency of matter below .
and would not form an attracting force to be independently allowed .
while no cognisance is taken of the deficiency below .
If the vibration-numbers at Kew and Greenwich are corrected for height only , the correction to be applied to their ference will be whence we obtain Kew\mdash ; Greenwich as the result of the reyisionary operations .

