]\gt ; The in Absorption in Different Solvents .
By BALPH MEItTON , B.Sc. ( Oxorl ) .
( Communicated by Prof. J. .
Thomson , F.R.S. Received April 17 , \mdash ; Read , 1912 .
In recent years a considerable amount of attention has been given to the absorption spectra of anic salts , and some conclusions of somewhat startling significance have been drawn from the results .
With the exception of a few cases , however , notably the recent work of Houstoun and his colleagues , * this work has been qualitatiye , and in most cases has been carried out by raphic methods .
The great disadvantages of these methods are now recognised , and it therefore becomes a matter of ance to discover whether accurate quantitative measurements will throw any further light on the subject .
The object of the present investigation has been to select some charactelistic substance and to make an accurate quantitative investigation of its absorption spectrum in different solvents .
In the course of the work the question of the radual replacement of one acid radicle by another has also been investigated , and an attempt had been made to investigate the possible effect of pressure on the absorption spectra of solutions .
The choice of material is somewhat restricted , the absorption of most inorganic salts being somewhat ill-defined , except in a few isolated cases .
After a number of preliminary inyestigations uranous chloride was chosen .
It can be obtained pure , it is soluble in a large number of solvents , and the absorption bands , which are comparatively well defined , are chiefly situated in the orange-red and green parts of the spectrum , and are , therefore , particularly well suited for photo- metric measurements .
The chemical properties of this substance have been fully investigated by Colani .
Up to the present , with the exception of the work of Jones and Strong , S only a few isolated measurements have been made on the absorption of this substance , the uranous salt having been in most cases prepared in solution by the reduction of the corresponding uranyl salt with zinc , a method obviously unsuitable for quantitative measurements .
The uranous chloride and all other chemicals used in this investigation were obtained from Kahlbaum .
The spectroscope used was a large model constant deviation type 'Roy .
Soc. Edin .
Proc 1911 , vol. 31 , p. 521 .
Cf .
' Ann. Rep. Chem. Soc , p. 16 .
'Ann .
Chem. Phys 1907 , ser. 8 , vol. 12 , p. 72 .
S 'Am .
Chem. Journ Feb. , 1911 , vol. 45 , No. 2 .
in Absorption in Solvents .
139 instrument by Hilger , the wave-lengths read directly on a helical drum with an accuracy of about 1 .
The photometric apparatus was of the type described by Houstoun , * the polarising rhomb contained in a brass cell which could be screwed on to the spectroscope in front of the slit .
The rotation of the analysing nicol in the eyepiece , which was proyided with a zero adjustment and a slow motion by rack and pinion , could be read on a divided circle with a vernier to one minute .
At the focus of the telescope objective was a slit the jaws of which were provided with a micrometer screw ad , ustment to shut off all but the narrow strip of the spectrum under observation .
In this instrument the upper and lower halves of the slit are illuminated by beams of light polarised at crht to one another , and the relation of the intensities is consequently given by the equation solutions examined were contained in a Schultz cell placed in front of the rhomb having a vlass block exactly 1 cm .
in thickness , and a small carbon arc lamp was used as a source of light .
As it was found that the accuracy of the setting varied with the absolute intensity of the light , number of neutral-tinted screens were used to cut down the light from the arc to whatever was found to be the most comfortable intensity for the eye .
Before determining the absorption of a solution it is necessary to determine the zero reading for each solvent used , owing to the loss of by internal reflection from the glass block in the Schultz cell , resulting in a different intensity in the two beams .
The real absorption of the solution is thus pressed by the equation ( solution ) : solvent ) The mean of five observations was taken in each case for determining the for each solvent .
The measurements were made at room temperature , which varied between and C. The specific extinction coefficients were determined according to the formula whel is the specific extinction coefficient , I and the intensities of the light after and before passing through the solution , the thickness of solution traversed , and the concentration expressed in grammes of salt per litre of solution .
The measurements were carried out as follows : solution of suitable concentration was prepared by dissolving a weighed quantity of salt in the solvent and making it up to 25 .
in a standard flask .
This solution was now introduced into the Schultz cell and first , examined qualitatively , 'Phil .
Mag 1908 , , vol. 15 , p. 282 . .
T. R. Merton .
Changes in [ Apr. 17 , the wave-lengths of the apparent maxima being noted .
A series of measurements of the ption was then made the entire range of the visible spectrum , care being taken to make a sufficient number of measurements in the neighbourhood of the maxima .
This method was thought to be preferable to that of taking the mean of a number of obseryations at a smaller number of points , since it was found that the single observations represented a considerable of accuracy , and the large number of points taken at short distances from one another were practically equivalent to taking the mean of a number of observations .
The following series of observations of the absorption of asso plate shows the accuracy of the results:\mdash ; .
Mean From these ures the probable error of observations , as repressnoed by the formula is approximately 15 ' .
In the solutions used this is equivalent to an error in of about .
In plotting the curves given , the values found are represented by circles the diameters of which correspond to an error of .
The refractive indices of the solvents were determined for sodium at C. by means of a Zeiss Pulfrich refractometer provided with an arrangement for controlling the temperature of the liquid examined .
This apparatus is now so well known that a description would be superfluous .
The values iven are correct to one unit in the fourth place of decimals .
esults ?
Water , Acetate , Forma lcolwl , and Ethyl Alcohol .
The refractive indices found for the solvents are as follows:\mdash ; at C. Water Methyl acetate Formamide Methyl alcohol Ethyl alcohol Beer 's law has been assumed to hold for the concentrations used , which varied up to 3 .
of salt per 100 .
of solution .
The results are shown in the curves given .
It will be at once seen from these curves that in the various solvents the differences do not merely consist in a shift of the maxima , but also in an entire change in the shape of the curve , and , in addition , there is a marked change in the intensity of absorption .
The differences in the shape of the absorption curves are too great for any attempt to be made to judge the applicability of Kundt 's law to these solutions .
912 .
] Ab.so , ption in Solvents .
FIG. 1 .
There owever , one point which at once suggests .
If two of these curves were superposed upon one another a number of apparently remarkable might be seen in the absorption spectra .
The resultants of two absorption curves superposed in three imaginary cases are given in fig. In case , the two curves do not intersect at any point , and therefore no change takes place in the apparent position of the maxima .
In case however , the resultant ( the algebraic sum of the two extinction coefficients ) , which is represented by the dotted line , shows that the apparent maximum will lie between the two maxima of the original curves , whilst in case anew band will have appeared .
This shows that , in mixtures of absorbing substances , the maxima will only appear to remain unchanged when they are situated at a certain *Cf .
Schuster , ' Rep. Brit. Assoc 1882 , p. 138 .
Mr. T. R. Merton .
in Certain [ Apr. 17 , distance from one another , depending on the form of the absorption curve .
Now the general rule given by Jones and Strong*is that , in mixed solvents , the bands due to each solvent retain their identity , whilst , when one acid radicle is replaced by another , there is a gradual shift of bands from one position to the other , which they interpret as being due to intermediate compounds .
Since the differences in the spectra in differen solvents are much greater than the differences due to the acid radicle , it becomes a matter of interest to discover whether in the latter case the gradual shift is not due to the superposition of the two curves .
The changes have been investigated in the case of aqueous solutions of nous chloride and sulphate and uranyl nitrate and chloride by the method ested by Burger .
The wave-length of an absorption maximum in an aqueous solution of uranous chloride was measured by placing the solution in two glass cells in front of the slit of the spectroscope , and taking the mean of a number of observations .
The experiment was now repeated for the corresponding band of uranous sulphate .
A third series of measurements was then made , one cell containing the chloride and the other the sulphate in series , and lastly , the two solutions were mixed and the measurements made .
The following results were obtained:\mdash ; chloride .
Uranous sulphate .
sulphate ieriesChloride asulphate mixed .
Chloride and ( The solutions were prepared from the corresponding uranyl salt by reduction .
) and for uranyl chloride and nitrate:\mdash ; .
cit. 'Ber .
Chem. Ges 1878 , vol. 2 , p. 1876 .
1912 .
] Absorption Spectra in Diffcrent Solvents .
Mean 47(K ) 4736 4708 It will thus be seen that the results are identical , whether the solutions are placed in separate cells or mixed .
The gradual shift of the maximum is therefore confirmed , but it is maintained that this is no evidence for the existence of intermediate compounds , since the results can be simply explained by the superposition of the two absorption curves .
It is therefore evident that the greatest caution must be exercised in interpreting changes in absorption spectra of this kind .
Results in Solva Ketone the of Free Acid .
Whilst the spectra in the solvents dealt with above consist of more or less diffuse bands without sharply defined maxima , the absorption spectra in ketones show , in addition to the hands , sharply defined absorption lines .
It was first observed by Jones and Strong*that when hydrochloric acid was added to a solution of uranous chloride in acetone the bands became split up into fine absorption lines .
It has been found that the strongest of these lines are visible in an acetone solution without the addition of hydrochloric acid , and that the effect of the acid is to diminish the general absorption , at the same time increasing the absorption of the lines .
It has also been found that the same effect can be produced by any soluble chloride , e.g. , potassium chloride , sodium chloride , calcium chloride , though the effect is not so marked in ths case of hydrochloric acid .
This effect of the addition of hydrochloric acid has been found to occur in all the solvents .
In water and formanlide the changes are very slight , in methyl alcohol the spectrum breaks up into two bands at 6762 and 6495 of about 60 and 40 A.U. in breadth respectively , whilst prolonged saturation of an ethyl alcohol solution with the dry gas gives rise to a spectrum which has been measured qualitatively with the following results .
In the second column the estimated intensities are given on an arbitrary scale , and in the third the apparent breadths in VOL. LXXXyII .
Mr. T. R. Merton .
in Certain [ Apr. 17 , Breadth .
The changes are , however , much more strongly marked in solvents containing a ketone group .
The following qualitative results were obtained for solution of uranous chloride in acetone saturated with dry hydrochloric acid gas .
The lines at 6686 and 6540 can be seen in an acetone solution without the addition of hydrochloric acid , but are rendered less distinct by a broad absorption band extending from about 6700 to 6520 .
Other ketone solvents investigated were\mdash ; Acetone at C. Propione , , Ethyl acetoacetate , , Acetophenone .
Measurements were also made in acetone , substituting the hydrochloric acid gas by potassium , sodium , and calcium chlorides , the results showing 1912 .
] Absorption Spectra in Different Sotvents .
that , though the broad band ( 6700-6520 ) did not completely disappear , the wave-lengths of the lines remained unchanged .
It was also found that dilution with another solvent such as water or alcohol caused a gradual disappearance of the lines , without shift , in accordance with the results of Jones and Strong .
* It was not found possible to prepare a concentrated solution of uranous chloride in propione , owing to its limited solubility in the latter , and also to the fact that some decomposition occurs .
The two lines were , however , identified at 6686 and 6540 , showing that there is no shift in from acetono to propione .
In acetoacetic ester and acetonitrile both the lines 6686 and 6540 are visible , 6540 being the stronger in acetoacetic ester .
and 6686 in acetonitrile .
On tl.eating the acetonitrile with dry hydrochloric acid gas both these lines disappeared , and a new set of very lines appeared .
These again disappear when the solution is heated to about C. , 6686 and 6540 appearing again .
The most remarkable spectrum observed was that in acetophenone with hydrochloric acid , the spectrum consisting of one very strong absorption line at 6561 with faint traces of other lines and bands .
The phenomena are altogether so complicated that it seems impossible to 146 Changes in Absorption in Different Solvents .
explain them satisfactorily in the present state of our knowledge .
It is , however , significant that no differences could be found in the lines measured in acetone and propione , although in this case there is a considerable change in refractive index .
The completely different spectra which have been found in different solvents also point to the fact that we must look to an explanation of the phenomena rather on the basis of chemical compounds than to a change in the optical properties of the solvent .
In the raph , which was taken with a small concave grating replica , are shown the absorption spectra of uranous chloride\mdash ; 1 .
In acetone with hydrochJoric acid gas ; 2 .
In acetophenone with hydrochloric acid gas ; 3 .
In acetonitrile with hydrochloric acid gas ; 4 .
In ethyl alcohol ; 5 .
In acetone .
In view of the hypothesis recently put forward by Prof. Richards on the compressibility of the atom , a number of experiments were performed with a view to discovering whether a change in the absorption spectra could be brought about by pressure .
The apparatus used consisted of a steel vessel provided with thick conical glass windows through which the spectra were observed , and was connected to a Bourdon pressure gauge , on which the pressures could be read to an accuracy of about 1 per cent. The pressure was by means of a plunger with cup washer which was operated by a screw .
The solutions to be examined were contained in a glass tube , the rest of the apparatus being filled with heavy paraffin oil .
Aqueous solutions of uranous chloride , uranyl chloride , uranyl nitrate , didymium nitrate , potassium permanganate and potassium chromoxalate were examined under pressures varying from atmospheric pressure to 750 atmospheres square inch ) .
No changes in the wavelengths of the maxima or in the clJaracter of the spectra were observed .
In the sharpest absorption spectrum observed , that of didymium nitrate , it may be stated that no change of wave-length as great as 2 .
occurs with a change of pressure of 750 atmospheres .
No conclusions have been arrived at with regard to a change of extinction coefficient with pressure , it being impossible to make spectrophotomotric observations with the apparatus used .
Summary .
1 .
The absorption spectra of uranous chloride in a number of organic solvents have been measured quantitatively , the results indicating that the On the Extinction of Light by an llluminated Retina .
147 differences cannot be considered as a shift of the bands , since the entire character and intensity of the absorption varies in different 2 .
The apparent gradual shifts observed when one acid radicle is replaced by another can be simply explained by the superposition of absorption curves , and evidence has been found in support of this explanation .
3 .
A marked change in the character of the absorption has been found in the presence of free acid , more especially in solvents containing a ketone group .
The addition of another solvent to these solutions causes a slow disappearance of the lines without shift , in accordance with the results of Jones and Strong .
4 .
The influence of pressures up to 750 atmospheres on the absorption spectra of solutions has been investigated , with negative results .
In conclusion , I should like to thank Prof. Herbert Jackson , of King 's College , London , for his kind advice and gestions in regard to the work , and to acknowledge the help given me by Dr. Jacques Biss in this ation .
On the Extinction of Light by By Sir WILLIAM , K.C.B. , F.B.S. ( Received May 4 , \mdash ; Read May 23 , 1912 .
) In " " Colour Photometry , Part III 'Phil .
Trans 1892 , and ' On the Sensitiveness of the Retina to Light and Colour 'Phil .
Trans 1897 , discussion on the extinction of light by a ' dark-adapted\ldquo ; eye is given .
Since the latter date , a large number of experiments have been made by myself and others on the extinction of light when the retina as a whole has been stimulated by illumination of white or coloured light .
In this communication the results obtained when the stimulation is by white light are described .
In the two papers above referred to the apparatus used when the eye was dark-adapted is described , but for the observations made an illuminated retina a modification had to be made .
A description of one form , which vered as well as any other form , is given .
BB is a box as in fig. 1 .
At the end of the box is cut a hole 34 inch in diameter and against it , but inside , is placed a 4-inch disc of white matt paper , in the centre of which is cut a -inch circular hole .
Behind the box is

