II .
" Researches on the Reproductive Organs of the Annelids .
" By THOMAS WILLIAMS , M.D. , F.L.S. , Physician to the Swansea Infirmary .
Communicated by THOMAS BELL , Esq. , F.R.S. , P.L.S. &amp;c. Received December 30 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author seeks to establish the following general proposition , viz. that there prevails throughout the Actiniadae , Echinodermata , Rotifera and Annelida , a special organ , which , under different phases , subserves different functions , which is essentially identifiable under every modification , reducible to the same type , and which constitutes the root of the Reproductive system in these families .
To this special organ he proposes to apply the provisional * Herschel 's Outlines of Astronomy , page 249 .
name of the " segmental oryan* .
" In the chambers which are enclosed by the vertical dissepiments dividing the body of Actinia , convoluted tubular cords are contained which support the generative structures .
It has not yet been proved whether the internal ends of these tubules open directly into the perivisceral chamber .
These cords and their appended structures in the Actiniadee , constitute the type of a system of organs the prevalence of which throughout the Echinodermata , Rotifera and Annelida can , he believes , be clearly and satisfactorily proved .
In the present memoir , however , the author proposes to confine his demonstrations to the anatomical varieties which the segmental organ presents in the class Annelida , contenting himself with merely in a passing manner pointing out the fact that the several variations of form , structure and number which this organ exhibits in the several genera of this class , are represented by similar variations in the different genera , especially of the class Echinodermata .
IHe hoped to show that under very numerous apparent varieties , the essential unity of the segmental organ within the indicated limits can be convincingly established .
Upon this organ , under different circumstances , there devolve one or two or even more functions .
Sometimes it is used as a simple discharge tube , conveying externally in a direct manner the fluid of the general cavity of the body .
This variety is exemplified in the segmental organs which are distributed , in the genera Lumnbricus and Nais , throughout all that part of the body which is situated posterior to the Reproductive band .
In this latter region two or more of these organs are so modified as to become the basis whereon is developed the generative structures .
Here the author enters upon a minute account ( illustrated by figures ) of the history of this organ in Lumbricus and Nais , showing the changes of outward form which it undergoes in several species of these genera .
He points out in this place that the segmental organ , as it occurs in Lumbricus and Nais , is paralleled by the so-called water-vascular system of the Rotifera : as in the former so in the latter , the ciliated tubes communicate openly with the general cavity ; in both , the cur* While he is convinced that the identity of this organ might readily be traced throughout other families of the lower Invertebrata , he will not permit himself at present to indulge in any wider generalization than that stated in the text .
rent raised by the cilia travels from within outwards ; and he contends that the reproductive structures are ingrafted upon , or developed from one , two or more of the ciliated tubes in the Rotifera , as from the segmental organs of Lumbricus and Nais .
Arenicola and Terebella form a group in which the segmental organ deviates in a remarkable apparent manner from that of Lumbricus and Nais .
It forms a series of elongated sacculi , which are attached to the ventral wall of the general cavity on either side of the median line .
Each sacculus , although single at its distal end , is divided at its attached end into two tubular limbs , one of which communicates directly with the exterior , while the other opens immediately into the general cavity of the body .
Through the latter limb the ova and sperm-cells are introduced into the perivisceral chamber , while in the reverse direction the fluid of this chamber is discharged externally .
The author has never been able to discover how the germand sperm-cells ( respectively in the female and male ) escape out of the general cavity .
But he trusts that he has given a new and satisfactory demonstration of the mode in which they enter that cavity .
The genera Arenicola and Terebella comprehend the only Annelids in which the germ-elements in the female , and the spermcells in the male , are ushered into , and are required to sojourn for a season in the fluid of the general cavity of the body .
He indicates in this place that the segmental organ of the Sipunculidce ( amongst the Echinoderms ) corresponds both in its structure and relations to that of Arenicola and Terebella , with this difference only , that in the latter a special and peculiar development of the blood-vascular system occurs around and in the vicinity of the segmental organ , whereas in the Sipunculidee this system scarcely exists and never receives any enlargement .
The segmental organs in the genus Synapta stand in an intermediate position between those of Holothuria and those of Sipunculus .
In Synapta one or more organs remain in the condition of simple ' discharge tubes , ' while others become developed into the Reproductive structures .
The segmental organs of the Hirudinaceae are next described .
The author adheres almost in every detail to the results published by him in 1851 in the Transactions of the British Association , with reference to the reproductive system of this family of annelids .
In the present memoir he records the results of new and carefully conducted dissections , which prove that in the Common Leech , the Sea-leech , and probably in the genus Clepsina , there is situated an organ on either side of the ventral median line , which is repeated in every ring of the body , and which in this family is the true ovigerous apparatus , the testes constituting a separate and more medianly disposed series of glandular bodies , whose homologies he has not yet satisfactorily determined .
The so-called " respiratory sacculus " of Duges he now looks upon as the process of the ovario-segmental organ , by which a communication is established between the latter and the general cavity of the body , and by which the fluid of this chamber escapes externally .
All the Hirudinacee are androgynous .
Under the Nereid group is included in this memoir , the genera Nereis , Aricia , Phyllodoce , Nephthys , Syllis and Nerine .
The segmental organ in these families is specially described and figured .
In all , the sexes are seated on separate individuals .
In no single instance is the general cavity rendered subservient to the incubatory process .
In all , the general circumference of the organ is lobulated and irregular , entering the hollow bases of the cirrhi and blended most intimately with the blood-vascular system .
Glycera and Cirrhatulus the author classes together , on account partly of the similarity of form and structure of the segmental organ , but especially because in both the blood-vascular system is completely and entirely wanting , its absence being compensated by the existence of a second order of pigment-carrying corpuscles in the cavitary fluid .
These genera are unisexual , and at no time are the germand spermelements introduced into the perivisceral chamber .
In this and the preceding groups the author has not succeeded in discovering the mode in which the segmental organ opens into the general cavity ; but from the fact that it has a looped arrangement , supported on two tubular limbs , he is quite convinced that an opening into this cavity , for the purpose of giving direct outlet to its contents , does really exist .
This conclusion is fortified by the analogy of the form under which the organ exists , in the Nereid group in general .
The Nemertine Annelids are then examined .
The author recalls the results of his researches as published in his 'Report ' on the Annelids in 1851 .
His renewed investigations have confirmed the statements which he then put forth .
He still contends that what M. Quatrefages has described in these worms as the ovary is a great alimentary csecum , and that the Reproductive system consists in a double series of segmental organs , one on either side of this great caecum and the ventral median line ; that in this family the sexes are seated on separate individuals ; that the reproductive elements at no time find their way into the general cavity ; that in fact these Annelids , anomalous only in the disposition of their alimentary system , conform , as regards the type and mode of repetition of segmental organs , to the standard offered by the great Nereid group .
Chlorcema Dujardinii , especially the female , presents an extremely favourable opportunity of observing the looped arrangement of the segmental organ , and of proving the fact , so constantly seen in the other families of Annelids , viz. that one limb of the loop is the true ovary , or the primary seat of the ovo-genesis ; that the ovules travel round the curve of the loop ; that they acquire a considerably developed size at the other limb , just before they escape externally .
In Chlorcema the vitelline body of the ova is almost ink-black .
The entire extent of the segmental organ is thus rendered perfectly and easily traceable amid the surrounding transparent structures .
In this genus it does not at present appear that either limb of the loop opens into the general cavity .
This type prevails , as far as he knows at present , throughout the Nereid group ; in other words , in these Annelids the function of a discharge tube does not appear to be thrown upon the segmental organ under any circumstances ; hence the limited dimensions of the general cavity and the highly developed character of the blood-vascular apparatus .
The group lastly examined , is that of the Aphroditaceae .
On the reproductive organs of this large , numerous and interesting family , no single observation is contained in any work on comparative anatomy that the author is acquainted with .
He enters upon a detailed account of his own researches .
They have ended in what he would fain believe to be a complete solution of the difficulties in which the history of the Reproductive or segmental system of this family has been hitherto shrouded .
This family , without exception , is unisexual .
The segmental organs constitute a complete and regularly branched series , situated , as in all other Annelids , on either side of the ventral median line .
They embrace , like a gauze-work , the diverticulla of the alimentary system , with which they correspond in number .
They fall under the general designation of the " segmental organ , " in the feature of their having two limbs , being therefore looped , although only rudimentarily .
The author then proceeds to give an account of his studies into the history of this organ amongst the grotesque and highly varied species of the genus Polynoe .
They have rendered it certain that throughout the family of the Aphroditacese there obtains but one type of segmental organ , and that upon it always are ingrafted the generative structures .
At this stage the attempt is made to show that the segmental organs of the Echinidee , Asteriadte and I-Iolothuriadse conform , structurally and functionally , in the most remarkably intimate manner with the typical standard exhibited by this organ in the Aphroditaceae .
But between these Echinoderm and Annelidan families the author attempts to indicate other zoological affinities .
He shows , that , according to his researches amongst the Aphroditacese , there is no trace whatever to be discovered of a blood-vascular system .
In this respect they correspond with the Echinidan and Asteridan families .
He shows that in the Aphroditacese the general cavity is never , under any circumstances , used as an incubatory chamber .
In this point of their generative history the Echinidae and Asteriadte exactly agree with the Aphroditaceme .
The author regrets , that , in consequence of the difficulty of obtaining specimens , he is obliged to defer to a second memoir many special points of anatomical structure and physiological relations , the determination of which he still feels to be necessary to the complete history of the segmental organ in the Annulose and Radiated classes .
The paper is illustrated by numerous drawings .

