366 Meeting of June 20 , 1901 , and List of Papers read .
about by the use of liquid air .
A body like sulphide of zinc cooled to 21 ' absolute and exposed to light shows brilliant phosphorescence on the temperature being allowed to rise .
Bodies like radium that exhibit self-luminosity in the dark , cooled in liquid hydrogen maintain their luminosity unimpaired .
Photographic action is still active although it is reduced to about half the intensity it bears at the temperature of liquid air .
Some crystals when placed in liquid hydrogen become for a time self-luminous , on account of the high electric stimulation brought about by the cooling causing actual electric discharges between the crystal molecules .
This is very marked with some platino-cyanides and nitrate of uranium .
Even cooling such crystals to the temperature of liquid air is sufficient to develop marked electrical and luminous effects .
Considering that both liquid hydrogen and air are highly insulating liquids , the fact of electric discharges taking place under such conditions proves that the electric potential generated by the cooling must be very high .
When the cooled crystal is taken out of either liquid and allowed to increase in temperature , the luminosity and electric discharges take place again during the return to the normal temperature .
A crystal of nitrate of uranium gets so highly charged electrically that , although its density is 2-8 and that of liquid air about 1 , it refuses to sink , sticking to the side of the vacuum vessel and requiring a marked pull on a silk thread , to which it is attached , to displace it .
Such a crystal rapidly removes cloudiness from liquid air by attracting all the suspended particles on to its surface .
The study of pyro-electricity at low temperatures will solve some very important problems .
During this inquiry I have had the hearty co-operation of Mr. Robert Lennox , to whom my thanks are due , and Mr. J. W. Heath has also given valuable assistance .
June 20 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Professor William Schlich and Professor Arthur Smithells were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; Meeting of June 20 , 1901 , and List of Papers read .
367 I. " On the Mathematical Theory of Errors of Judgment , with Special Reference to the Personal Equation .
" By Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. II .
" Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
X.\#151 ; Supplement to a Memoir on Skew Variation .
" By Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. III .
" On the Application of Maxwell 's Curves to Three-colour Work , with Especial Reference to the Nature of the Inks to be employed , and to the Determination of the Suitable Light-filters .
" By Dr. R. S. Clay .
Communicated by Sir W. Abney , K.C.B. , F.R.S. IV .
" The Nature and Origin of the Poison of Lotus Arabians .
" By W. R. Dunstan , F.R.S. , and T. A. Henry .
V. " On the Structure and Affinities of Dipteris , with Notes on the Geological History of the Dipteridinse .
" By A. C. Seward , F.R.S. , and Miss E. Dale .
VI .
" Further Observations on Nova Persei .
No. 3 .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. VII .
" Total Eclipse of the Sun , May 28 , 1900 : Account of the Observations made by the Solar Physics Observatory Eclipse Expedition and the Officers and Men of H.M.S. ' Theseus , ' at Santa Pola , Spain .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. VIII .
" The Mechanism of the Electric Arc " By Mrs. H. Ayrton .
Communicated by Professor Perry , F.R.S. IX .
" The Yellow Colouring Matters accompanying Chlorophyll and their Spectroscopic Relations .
Part 2 .
" By C. A. Schunck .
Communicated by E. Schunck , F.R.S. X. " Magnetic Observations in Egypt , 1883-1901 .
" By Captain H. G. Lyons .
Communicated by Professor Rucker , F.R.S. XI .
" A Determination of the Value of the Earth 's Magnetic Field in International Units , and a Comparison of the Results with the Value given by the Kew Observatory Standard Instruments .
" By W. Watson , F.R.S. XII .
" Virulence of Desiccated Tubercular Sputum .
" By H. Swithinbank .
Communicated by Sir H. Crichton Browne , F.R.S. XIII .
" The Effect of the Temperature of Liquid Air upon the Vitality and Virulence of the Bacillus .
" By H. Swithinbank .
Communicated by Sir H. Crichton Browne , F.R.S. 368 Meeting of June 20 ; 1901 , and List of Papers read .
XIV .
" The Fermentation of Urea : a Contribution to the Study of the Chemistry of the Metabolism in Bacteria .
" By Dr. W. E. Adeney .
Communicated by Professor W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. XV .
" On the Seasonal Variation of Atmospheric Temperature in the British Isles and its Relation to Wind-direction , with a Note on the Effect of Sea Temperature on the Seasonal Variation of Air Temperature .
" By W. N. Shaw , F.R.S. , and R. Waley Cohen .
XVI .
" On the Continuity of Effect of Light and Electric Radiation on Matter .
" By Professor J. C. Bose .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. XVII .
" On the Similarities between Radiation and Mechanical Strains .
" By Professor J. C. Bose .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. XVIII .
" On the Strain Theory of Photographic Action .
" By J. C. Bose .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. XIX .
" The Anomalous Dispersion of Sodium Vapour .
" By Professor R. W. Wood .
Communicated by Professor C. V. Boys , F.R.S. ' .
XX .
" The Pharmacology of Pseudaconitine and Japaconitine considered in Relation to that of Aconitine .
" By Professor J. T. Cash , F.R.S. , and Professor W. R. Dunstan , F.R.S. XXI .
" The Pharmacology of Pyraconitine and Methylbenzaconine considered in Relation to that of Aconitine .
By Professor J. T. Cash , F.R.S. , and Professor W. R. Dunstan , F.R.S. XXII .
" On the Separation'of the Least Volatile Gases of Atmospheric Air , and their Spectra .
" By Professor Living , F.R.S. , and Professor Dewar , F.R.S. XXIII .
" The Stability of a Spherical Nebula .
" By J. H. Jeans .
Communicated by Professor G. H. Darwin , F.R.S. XXIV .
" On the Behaviour of Oxy-haemoglobin , Carbonic Oxide Haemoglobin , Methaemoglobin , and certain of their Derivatives , in the Magnetic Field , with a Preliminary Note on the Electrolysis of the Haemoglobin Compounds .
" By Professor Gamgee , F.R.S. XXV .
" On the Resistance and Electromotive Forces of the Electric Arc. " By W. Duddell .
Communicated by Professor Ayrton , F.R.S. On the Mathematical Theory of Errors of Judgment .
369 XXVI .
" On the Relation between the Electrical Resistances of Pure Metals and their Molecular Constants .
" By W. Williams .
Communicated by Professor Andrew Gray , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , November 21 , 1901 .
" On the Mathematical Theory of Errors of Judgment , with Special Reference to the Personal Equation .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , University College , London .
Received April 23 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) In 1896 I , with Dr. Alice Lee and Mr. G. A. Yule , made a series of experiments on the bisection of lines at sight .
The object of these experiments was to test a development of the current theory of errors of observation , by which it seemed possible to me to determine the absolute steadiness of judgment of any individual by comparing the relative observations of three ( instead of as usual two ) observers .
As a rule the absolute errpr of the observer is unknown and unknowable , and I was seeking for a quantitative test of steadiness in judgment to be based on relative judgments .
If o-01 be the standard deviation of the absolute judgments of the first observer , o-12 , cr23 , cr31 the standard deviations of the relative judgments of the first and second , the second and third , and the third and first observers respectively , then O-012 - | ( '"212 + 0132 ~ 0-232 ) ... ... ... ( i ) on the basis of the current theory of errors .
Thus it seemed possible to determine absolute steadiness of judgment from the standard deviations of relative judgments , which are all that the physicist or astronomer can usually make , provided three observers and not two were compared .
To my great surprise I found results such as ( i ) were not even approximately true , and that they failed to hold because the judgments of the observers were substantially correlated .
It did not occur to me at first that judgments made as to the midpoints of lines by experimenters , in the same room , it is true , but not necessarily bisecting the same line at the same instant , could be psychologically correlated , and I looked about for a source of correlation in the treatment of the data. .
We had taken 500 lines of different lengths and bisected them at sight ; assuming that the error would be more Or less propor-e tional to the length of the line , I had adopted the deviation from the

