2 .
Electro-Physiological Researches.--Ninth Series .
" By Signor Carlo Matteucci .
Communicated by W. R. Grove , Esq. , F.R.S. In the first portion of this paper the author refers to a work recently published by M. DLu Bois Raymond " ' On the law of Muscular Current , and on the modification which that law undergoes by the effect of Contraction ; " which work M. Matteucci states obliges him to transmit to the Royal Society certain researches the publication of which he would otherwise have wished to delay .
I-e then refers to his previous researches published in the Philosophical Transactions for the years 1845 and 1847 , and in the Annals de Chimie for October 1847 .
From the experiments detailed in those papers , and from certain points of doubt which he indicates , he considers himself authorized in concluding that the development of electricity by muscular contraction still remains to be demonstrated by experiment , and that the phenomenon of induced contraction is still that which leads most directly to this result .
le then gives a series of experiments illustrated by figures , and from them deduces the following conclusions:1st .
The cause of induced contraction , according to all analogies , is the same as that which produces contraction of the galvanoscopic frog in several of the experiments given .
2ndly .
The cause of these contractions is evidently an electrical phenomenon developed in the act of contraction , and which consists in a different state of electricity in the different points of the contracted limb .
Srdly .
This electrical phenomenon , like the contraction which produces it , lasts only for an instant .
4thly .
These electric states , developed by contraction , tend to produce electrical currents which circulate in opposite directions across a conducting arch interposed between the two limbs , which contract at the same time .
The author futrther states , that , whatever the theory of these phenomena may be , it is certain that they demonstrate the production of an electrical disequilibrium in the act of muscular contraction .
Upon the question whether the cause of the species of discharge described is a phenomenon analogous to that of electrical fish , or a change in the natural conditions of the muscular current , the author , though leaning to the former alternative , forbears to express a posi-

