]\gt ; U4 A Cornparison of the Spectra of fVuorescent Rontgen By J. CROSBY CHAPMAN , B.Sc. , Layton Research Scholar of the IIniversity of London , King 's College ; Research Student of Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge .
( Coinmunicated by Prof. Sir .
J. Tbtns O.M. , October 22 , \mdash ; Read November 21 , 1912 .
) In a previous paper*published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' it has been shown that there is a second group .
elements consisting of tungsten , gold , platinum , bismuth , and the radioactive elements uranium and thorium , which emit secondary fluorescent -radiation when excited by a suitable primary beam of rays .
The which the radia- tions of this group ( Group L ) have been shown to possess in common with the radiations of Group .
( elements ) , investigated some years by Prof. Barkla , are as follows:\mdash ; ( l ) The radiations emitted by any particular element when excited consist of two distinct types : ( a ) the scattered fadiation , having the saine penetrating p the and iildistingnishable it ; ( b ) the homogeneous -radiation characteristic of the .
element in question .
( 2 ) Each element exerts selective for adiations which are of such a degree of hardness li8 in the neighbourhood of an " " absorption band In the case of the elements Group , to demonstrate the hoinogeneity of the radiations , lowanoe had to be made for scatteivd radiation Which always actiompanies the homogeneous constituent , but whioh in the Oas6 of the heavier elements is present in such magnitude as to mask , if no correction is applied , the true hoinogeneity .
In the experiment in the paper referred to , the absorption in hium of radiations has baen meaSured .
In I and II the absorption [ ; oefflciehb is defined by the equation , where is the density of aluminium .
absorption fficients in aluminium of the radiations of Group ]re added eferenbe ( Table ) .
From these tables it will be that the penetratihg of the adiad tions in Group is of the same order as the penetrating power of the radiations in Group K The empirical equation connects the atomic weights of two elements , which , though in different groups , emit characteristic * Chapman , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 86 .
Barkla and Sadler , ' Phil. Mag Ootober , 1908 .
artson Spectra of Fluorescent Rbntgen Radiatiom .
25 Table I. Table II .
radiations which appear the same when measured simply by their absorption in aluminium:\mdash ; .
The results then up to the present can be stabed as follows : elements of different atomic weights and belonging to different groups as regards their periodic -ray can , if suitably excited by a primary beam of Rontgen rays , be caused to emit identical characteristic radiations , when the sole criterion of identity is the fact that the absorption coefficients of their radiations in aluminium are equal .
This second series ( Group L ) is of great importance from the point of view of -ray properties , but the results given in the previous paper cannot , without further experiment , be employed with any certainty for the purpose of throwing light on the internal structure of matter , which is one of the objects of detailed -ray study .
The results cannot be directly used , for this reason : the comparison of the radiations of both groups , and the only way in which both have been standardised , is by means of their property of being absorbed to different extents in aluminium .
Now this test by itself is far from sufficient ; the absorption in a single fact , absorption experiments alone\mdash ; cannot determine conclusively the -ray property of am element , for two radiations totally different in structure might conceivably Mr. J. C. Chapman .
A Compcirison of the [ Oct. 22 , be absorbed to the same extent in the one element aluminium .
In addition to this , even if equal absorptions take place , there is yet the possibility that the energy absorbed is not transformed in similar ways for the two radiations .
It is the object of the present paper to investigate in some detail the radiations of the two groups , so as to establish the identity or dissimilarity of the types of radiation .
If we imagine for a moment that two totally diIierent types of radiation can be produced in any way , yet having equal absorption coefficients in an element X , then , tested only by their absorption in X , they would appear identical .
Suppose now instead of measuring their absorption in X their absorption in another element be found .
If the two radiations are not identical or of very similar nature , there is no reason for supposing that their absorption coefficients in the new element would again be identical .
This method of investigating the radiations of the two groups was the first used in the experiment .
The absorption in aluminium of the radiations of Group and Group being known , the absorption of the radiations of both groups was measured in various elements other than aluminium , in order to see whether the absorptions of two radiations in different groups , having the same absorption coefficients in aluminium , were also equal in these other elements .
Absorption Experiments .
The apparatus was essentially similar to that used in the previous research .
The usual method of exhibiting the absorption of the spectrum of homogeneous radiations by any element is as follows:\mdash ; The ffisorption coefficients in the element X of the various radiations are plotted as ordinates , while the absorption coefficients in aluminium for the samoe diations are plotted as abscissae .
In this way a curve is obtained showing the relation between the absorption coefficients in the element X and in aluminium .
Since there are two groups of elements furnishing -ray spectra , this curve can be obtained in two different ways .
Suppose we consider that this curve has been plotted , using the elements of Group as the series of radiations absorbed , that is in X has been plottea ' against in aluminium ( Group K ) .
Now consider that another curve is drawn , but in this case the group of elements which furnish the series or spectrum of radiations must be ( iroup L When this is done we again have in X plotted against in aluminium ( Group L ) , the only difference being that in the latter case the various radiations having different values of in aluminium belong to the second Group and not to Group as in the first curve .
The point in question is whether the form of curve is the same in the two cases .
1912 .
] Spectra of Fluorescent Rontgen In order to test this , the following absorptions were successively determined .
The absorption by copper , silver , and platinum , of\mdash ; The characteristic radiations of Group K. ( 2 ) The characteristic radiations of Group Each of these three elements was selected because of its definite -ray significance .
The element copper belongs to Group , and its homogeneous characteristic radiation is excited by the whole series of radiations Group L ) .
the absorption of which was determined .
Silver also belongs to Group but its characteristic radiation is not excited by any element in Group The element platinum belongs to Group , and , in addition , platinum exerts a selective absorption for a range of radiations which falls in the spectra formed by both Group and Group L. In the case of the absorption of the radiations of Group , it is only necessary to determine those of bromine , strontium , and molybdenum radiations .
The other values have been previously found .
* As before , is defined by the equation , while is the density of the element absorbing .
ABSORPTION TABLES .
Table III.\mdash ; For Radiations of Group K. Table \mdash ; For Radiations of Group L. From results previously obtained , combined with the two tables just given , it is possible to show that , for the various radiations of Group , the ratio of in Cu of any radiation in Group to in Cu of radiation in * Barkla and Sadler , 'Phil .
Mag May , 1909 .
2@ Mr. J. C. Chapman .
A on of Group X having same in Al as radiation of Lis umity .
This ratio is found in fifth oolumh of Table V. It in Table for the silver and platinum absorptions .
Table roup L Rrho .
Table * The curve showing the relation between in Pt and in Al is so steep at this point that a small inat curaoy in observation would introduce this disorepancy .
The fact that the ratio in each of the three cases approximates to unity can be exhibited graphically by drawing the curves for copper , silver , and platinum respectively , showing the relation between the absorption in the particular element and the absorption in aluminium for the spectra of radiations formed by each group .
In the curves , the continuous lines indicate the absorptioi1 of the radiations of Group K. It will be seen that the points corresponding to the radiations of Group lie approximately on the same curve .
This fact , that a single curve results on which lie the values of the absorption coefficients for both series of radiations ( Group and Group L ) , proves that the radiations in the two groups are of a similar nature .
Had the radiations been dissimilar , and had it only been by that the absorption coefficients in aluminium bear a certain relation to one another , two ourves would have oesulted , otle corresponding to each spectrum , as explained above .
1912 .
] Spectra of Fiuorescent Al .
IO Group elements\mdash ; continuous line .
Group elements\mdash ; points .
80 Mr. J. C. Chapman .
A Cornparison of the [ Oct. 22 , Group elements\mdash ; continuous line .
Group elements\mdash ; points .
The results , as shown in the foregoing tables , can be stated as follows : Any particular radiation belonging to Group and having a certain penetrating power in aluminium , is absorbed by any other element , to the same extent as the radiation in Group which has the same penetrating power in aluminium .
Further Considerations .
The evidence given does not yet completely establish the fact that the two series of radiations are identical in nature , though pointing in that direction .
Owing , however , to the importance of the clearest proof of a property which depends on electronic structure , and which repeats itself in two elements of different atomic weights , it is essential that the comparative analysis of the two series of radiations should be carried further .
It has been proved that two radiations belonging to different groups , and having the same penetrating power in aluminium , are absorbed to the same extent in any other element .
This energy which is absorbed is in the most general case ( i.e. when the element absorbing is capable of emitting a characteristic radiation ) spent in producing various types of radiation in the substance in which the absorption takes place .
Some of these results are\mdash ; ( 1 ) Homogeneous radiation .
( 2 ) Scattered radiation .
( 3 ) Corpuscular radiation .
( 4 ) Ionisation .
1912 .
] of Fluorescent Rontgen The intensity of the scattered and the homogeneous radiation is in general too feeble to determine , but the intensity of the ionisation and the corpuscular radiation , produced under suitable conditions , is well within the limits of measurement .
In order , therefore , to make a more thorough study of the radiations in the two groups , one method is to take two radiations , one from roup , both having the same penetrating power in aluminium and therefore , as the first part of the research proves , the same penetrating power in all substances , and allow these radiations to be equally absorbed in various elements or compounds , which may be either in the metallic or gaseous state .
If then we can measure the amount of corpuscular radiation or the intensity of the ionisation produced under varying conditions by the absorption of these equal of energy , evidence will be obtained showing whether the distribution of total energy is the same in the case of the two radiations .
When the radiations in the two groups are compared as regards their absorption .
in different elements , it is found that there is only one common value of the absorption coefficient for which radiations actually exist in both groups .
Ihese are bromine and bismuth .
These values , it will be seen , are well within the limits of experimental error , when account is taken of the somewhat difficult scattering correction which has to be made when dealing with the radiations of Group L. If then we take the element bromine as representing Group and bismuth as representing Group , it is possible to examine in detail the radiations given by each , and evidence can be obtained of similarity or dissimilarity in the nature of the two radiations .
Any results yielded by this examination can then be applied to the whole spectrum of radiations common to both groups .
It is proposed to test these two typical radiations by determining:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Their power of producing corpuscular radiation in various substances .
( 2 ) Their ionising power in various substances .
The remaining portion the research therefore divides itself into measurements of corpuscular radiation and ionisation .
Mr. J. Chapman .
A Comparison of the [ Oct. Experiments on the Corpuscular The ionisation chamber was of brass , 8 .
in diameter and 2 em. in length .
Its ends consisted of thin parchment stretched on brass caps .
The fitting of thsse oaps was such that without disturbing the apparatus eaeh end of the chamber could be reversed .
Ths whole of the inside of the chamber was lined with paper , and a paper shield was placed on the electrode .
A difference of potential of 200 volts between the eleotrode and the vessel was suffioient to produce saturation .
The method of the riment was as follows .
one face of eaeh of the parchment sheets forming the end. .
of the chamber , a sheet of very thin foil was deposited , this foil was copper in the first experimeI } and was of such a thickness that while not absorbing any depable fraetion of the fluorescent radiations of the hardness used in the experiment ( bromine and bismuth radiations ) , no electrons produced at the back surface were able to penetrate to the front surfaoe .
The foil being depos ; ted on the parch-ments wlJich formed the ends of the chamber , the copper faces were first placed facing outwards , so that when a ray travelled through the ehamber it traversed successively copper , parchment , the air in the chamber , parchment , copper .
nder these conditions , neglecting the small of and corpuscular radiation emitted by the parchment , the ionisation in the chamber was due ( 1 ) The direct ionising effect of the -rays on the air .
( 2 ) The scattered and fluorescent rays from the copper .
That is , since parchment is such an inefficient radiator and the factor ( 2 ) is small , the resultant iottisation is almost wholly caused by the direct action of the -rays .
Now consider the effect of reversir } the endS of the chaInber , so that instead of having the parchment on the inside the two ends are now by the thin foil .
In this case an -ray passes successively : Parchment , copper , the air in the cbamber , copper , parchment .
The ionisation under these circumstances was caused ( 1 ) The direct ionising effect of the -rays on the air .
( 2 ) The scattered and fluorescent -rays from the copper .
( 3 ) The corpuscular rays from the copper .
The iouisatio1t caused by the scattered and fluorescent -rays is small , but in any case this factor counterbalances in the two parts of the experi- ments , for the absorption of the scattered and fluorescont radiation by the parchment is small .
The difference in the ionisation in two cases must be due to ( 3 ) the corpuscular rays from the copper , the other constituents 1912 .
] of Fluorescent Radiations .
being common to the two experiments .
Herein lies the excellence of this method , for by a simple mechanical device it was possible , by finding the difference in the ionisation in the two cases , to measuure at once the ionisation caused by the corpuscular radiation from the copper .
qing this apparatus the energies of the radiations from bromine and bismuth respectively were first compared in intensity by their power of producing ionisation in air .
Let us assume for the moment that the beams are of the same intensity as measured by t , heir absorption in air .
In the experiment equal amoun ts of energy of these two beams were then absorbed by the copper .
The point to decide was whether equal absqrptions of energy would yield the same amount of corpuscular rays , in other words , whether the energy which is absorbed is distributed in the same proportion in the two cases .
Ihe results are given in tabular form .
Copper as CorpuscuIar Radiator .
The same experiment was repeated using tungsten ( Group L ) in the place of copper ( Group K ) as the source of the corpuscular radiation .
The tungsten was deposited by means of gum and chloroform .
Iungsten as Corpuscular Radiator .
In each expsriment from the tinal column in the tables it seen that the intensity of corpuscular radiation produced by equal absorptions of the two radiations is the same .
VOL. Mr. J. C. Chapman .
A Comparison of the [ Oct. 22 , It is interesting to consider upon what ffictors the intensity of the corpuscular radiation emitted by a plate , and measured by its ionising power in air , depends .
Let be the intensity of the beam exciting the corpuscular radiator , which , since the latter is thin , we can consider constant ; let be the transformation coefficient of X-radiation into corpuscular radiation , then with the usual notation , being the amount of energy converted into corpuscular energy in a layer thickness and unit cross-section , If we assume that half the radiation produced at any layer goes forward and half backward , travelling normally to the surface , the total intensity of corpuscular rays emerging from one side of the plate if is the coefficient of absorption of the corpuscular rays If each corpuscle produces on the average ions in the air , the total .
ionisation be Then , considering one surface of the radiator alone , for the bromine *radiation , inserting suffixes which explain themselves , And similarly for the bismuth radiation:\mdash ; But the experiment has shown that when then Therefore ; ; ; That is , the bromine and the bismuth radiations , although belonging to different groups , have the following properties in common:\mdash ; ( 1 ) They are equally transformed into corpuscular radiation .
( 2 ) The corpuscles ejected by the radiations have the same ionising and penetrating power Ionisation Bxperiments .
The ionisation chamber was cylindrical in shape , 2 cm .
in length and 7 cm .
in diameter , and each end was of thin parchment .
The whole of the inside was lined with paper so as to minimise corpuscular radiation .
1912 .
] Spectra of Fluorescent Rontgen Radiations .
In the experiment two vapours were used , one nickel carbonyl , in which the homogeneous radiation of the heavy element was excited by the radiations bromine and bismuth , and the other ethyl bromide , in which the characteristic radiation was not stimulated by these two radiations .
The vapours were introduced by exhausting the ionisation chamber , and then from the bulb attached letting in the requisite amount of saturated vapour .
The results obtained are shown below .
Nickel CarbonyL Ethyl Bromide .
Thus the ratio of ionisation in compound to ionisation in air has the same value whether bromine or bismuth is used as the exciting radiation .
If we take ionisation in air to be a measure of the energy absorbed in the air , and therefore proportional to the energy absorbed in the vapour , which follows from the first part of the research , it is seen that the same proportion of the energy absorbed is converted into ionisation whether the energy is derived from the bromine or the bismuth radiation .
So that as regards the phenomenon of ionisation the two radiations , bromine and bismutb , although belonging to different groups , behave as though identical in type , thus again demonstrating a similarity in property of the radiations of the two groups .
Conclusions .
It may appear that more than sufficient evidence has been brought forward to prove that the two series of radiations , although arising from 36 Comparison of Spectra of rescent Rontgen Radiations .
different atoms , are identical in nature ; but it is necessary to establish this beyond doubt .
For it is agreed that the phenomenon of secondary characteristic radiation is connected with the electronic distribution in the atom .
Therefore the fact that the two series of radiations are identical in nature proves that properties which are dependent on electronic structure repeat themselves in atoms of different elements containing different numbers of electrons , and in this way furnishes one of the clearest examples which the subject of -rays affords , of the theory put forward by Sir Joseph Thomson , namely , that " " we should expect the corpuscles in the heavy atoms to be arranged , as it were , in bundles , the arrangement of the corpuscles in each bundle being similar to the arrangement in the atom of some lighter element Suppose that , as previously suggested , the fluorescent -radiation is produced by the electronic system in the atom settling down after that atom has ejected an electron or electrons as a result of the primary pulse passing over it .
Taking , first , the case of the light elements in Group , suppose in the simple case that the ejected electron is expelled from a bundle of a certain definite arrangement ; then , as the atomic weight of the radiating element increases , the arrangement of the " " bundles\ldquo ; alters , as well as their number , till eventually " " bundles\ldquo ; with the same definite arrangement of electrons appear in an atom of higher atomic weight .
Under these conditions two atoms differing in weight would , owing to their similarity in essential radiating structure , emit precisely the same type of fluorescent radiation .
This is purely hypothetical , but it serves to show the type of explanation demanded to explain the fact that two atoms differing in respect of chemical and physical properties , as well as in the number of electrons they contain , should yet emit the same type of fluorescent -radiation .
No relation between elements of different atomic weights emitting identical radiations can be found on the basis of Mendeleef 's table .
Summarly .
The radiations belonging to Group and Group respectively have been inYestigated as regards their X-ray properties .
In this connection the absorption of the various radiations of both groups in copper , silver , and platinum has been found .
In all cases it has been shown that if radiations from different groups suffer the same absorption in aluminium , then they are equally absorbed in any other element .
It be seen that bromine and bismuth , though in different groups , emit radiations of equal penetrating power , so that as regards total energy absorption they are identical radiations .
The iritensity of the corpuscular The Synthesis of and of a Fdspar .
37 radiation produced in tungsten and copper and the ionisation resulting in ethyl bromide and nickel carbonyl , when equal amounts of energy of the two radiations were absorbed in the various substances , have been measured , and were found in each case to be independent of the radiator .
The results prove that these two spectra of radiations , Group and Group , are identical in their nature , as is shown by measurements on radiations in both groups which test\mdash ; ( l ) their absorption in elements ; ( 2 ) their power of producing corpusoular radiation ; ( 3 ) their power of ionising .
This suggests that the mechanism of production is the same , although the elements emitting the radiation differ widely in atomic weight .
I wish to express my best thanks to Sir J. J. Thomson for his interest and advice throughout this research .
The Synthesis of a Silicalcyanide of Felspar .
By J. EMERSON BEYNOLDS , , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received October Read ember 2 [ PLATE 1 .
] In the course of an investigation which has occupied much time during some years the writer has obtained a considerable number of definite compounds including silicon and the nitrogen of diverse organic groups in direct chemical uniou .
Several of these new substances resemble in composition and in their general relations certain well-known compouhds of carbon with nitrogen .
such as amides , imides , and nitriles , among them being a silicocyanogen group , , in combination .
The formation of such substances afforded complete proof that silicon has , like carbon , though in less degree , a marked affinity for trivalent nitrogen , even when the latter is associated with organic groups .
* *These substances have been described in detail in the ' Transactions of the Chemical Socisty ' in the following papers:\mdash ; " " The Action of Silicon Tetrabromide on Thiocarbamide ' Chem. Soc. Trans vol. 51 , p. 202 ; " " The Action of Silicon Tetrabromide on Allyl and Phenylthiocarbamides vol. 53 , p. 854 ; " " The Action of Alcohol on the Compound \ldquo ; vol. 63 , p. 868 ; " " On amide , para-and ortho-Sihcotetratolylamides , a- and -Silicotetranaphthylamides , \ldquo ; vol. 65 , p. 474 .
These compounds were the first of those obtained in which silicon is exclusively united with nitrogen and forming crystalline substances .
" " The Action of Substituted Phenylamines on Silicon Tetrachloride vol. 61 , p. 453 ; On Silicodiphenyldiimide and Silicotriphenylguanidine vol. 77 , p. 836 ; " " The Bromination of Silicophenylimide and -amide , and the

