II .
" On the Mechanical Possibility of the Descent of Glaciers , by their Weight only .
" By the Rev. HENRY MOSELEY , M.A. , Canon of Bristol , F.R.S. , Instit .
Imp .
Sc. Paris , Corresp .
Received October 21 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) All the parts of a glacier do not descend with a common motion ; it moves faster at its surface than deeper down , and at the centre of its surface than at its edges .
It does not only come down bodily , but with different motions of its different parts ; so that if a transverse section were made through it , the ice would be found to be moving differently at every point of that section .
This fact* , which appears first to have been made known by M. Rendu , Bishop of Annecy , has since been confirmed by the measurements of Agassiz , Forbes , and Tyndall .
There is a constant displacement of the particles of the ice over one another , and alongside one another , to which is opposed that force of resistance which is known in mechanics as shearing force .
By the property of ice called regelation , when any surface of ice so sheared is brought into contact with another similar surface , it unites with it , so as to form of the two , one continuous mass .
Thus a slow displacement of shearing , by which different similar surfaces were continually being brought into the presence and contact of one another , would exhibit all the phenomena of the motion of glacier'ice .
Between this resistance to shearing and the force , whatever it may be , which tends to bring the glacier down , there must be a mechanical relation , so that if the shearing resistance were greater the force would be insufficient to cause the descent .
The shearing force of cast iron , for instance , is so great that , although its weight is also very great , it is highly improbable a mass of cast iron would descend if it were made to fill the channel of the Mer de Glace , as the glacier does , because its weight would be found insufficient to overcome its resistance to shearing , and thus to supply the work necessary to those internal displacements , of which a glacier is the subject , or even to shear over the irregularities of the rocky channel .
The same is probably true of any other metal .
I can find no discussion which has for its object to determine this mechanical relation between what is assumed to be the cause of the descent of a glacier , and the effect produced , to show that the work of its weight ( supposing that alone to cause it to descend ) is equal to the works of the several resistances , internal and external , which are actually overcome in its descent .
It is my object to establish such a relation .
The forces which oppose themselves to the descent of a glacier are , -1st , the resistance to the sliding motion of one part of a piece of solid ice on the surface of another , which is taking place continually throughout .
the mass of the glacier , by reason of the different velocities with which its different parts move .
This kind of resistance will be called in this paper ( for shortness ) shear , the unit of shear being the pressure in lbs. necessary to overcome the resistance to shearing of one square inch , which may be presumed to be constant throughout the mass of the glacier .
2ndly .
The friction of the superimposed laminta of the glacier ( which move with different velocities ) on one another , which is greater in the lower ones than the upper .
3rdly .
The resistance to abrasion , or shearing of the ice , at the bottom of the glacier , and on the sides of its channel , caused by the roughnesses sack .
" " This , " says Mr. Cowell , from whose paper read before the Alpine Club in April 1864 the above quotation is made , " is not an isolated example of the scattering that takes place in or on a glacier , for I myself saw on the Theodule Glacier the remains of the Syndic of Val Tournanche scattered over a space of several acres .
" 203 of the rock , the projections of which insert themselves into its mass , and into the cavities of which it moulds itself .
4thly .
The friction of the ice in contact with the bottom and sides so sheared over or abraded .
If the whole mechanical work of these several resistances in a glacier could be determined , as it regards its descent , for any relatively small time , dne day for instance , and also the work of its weight in favour of its descent during that day , then , by the principle of " virtual velocities " ( supposing the glacier to descend by its weight only ) , the aggregate of the work of these resistances , opposed to its descent , would be equal to the work of its weight , in favour of it .
It is , of course , impossible to represent this equality mathematically , in respect to a glacier having a variable direction and an irregular channel and slope ; but in respect to an imaginary one , having a constant direction and a uniform channel and slope , it is possible .
Let such a glacier be imagined , of unlimited length , lying on an even slope , and having a uniform rectangular channel , to which it fits accurately , and which is of a uniform roughness sufficient to tear off the surface of the glacier as it advances .
Such a glacier would descend with a uniform motion if it descended by its weight only , because the forces acting upon it would be uniformly distributed and constant forces* .
The conditions of the descent of any one portion of it would therefore be the same as those of any other equal and similar portion .
The portion , the conditions of whose descent it is sought in this paper to determine , is that which has descended through any given transverse section in a day ; or , rather , it is one half this mass of ice , for the glacier is supposed to be divided by a vertical plane , passing through the central line of its surface , it being evident that the conditions of the descent of the two halves are the same .
The measurements which have been made of the velocities of the surface-ice at different distances from the sides , make it probable that the differences of the spaces described in a given time would be nearly proportional to the distances from the edge in a uniform channelt ; and the similar measurements made on the velocities at different depths on the sides that , under the same circumstances , the increments of velocity would be as the distances from the bottom .
This law , which observation indicates as to the surface and the sides , is supposed to obtain throughout the mass of the glaciers .
Any deviation from it , possible under the circumstances , will hereafter be shown to be such as would not sensibly affect the result .
The trapezoidal mass of ice thus passing through a transverse section in a day is conceived to be divided by an infinite number of equidistant vertical planes , parallel to the central line , or axis of the glacier , and also by an infinite number of other equidistant planes parallel to the bed of the glacier .
It is thus cut into rectangular prisms or strips lying side by side and above one another .
If any one of these strips be supposed to be prolonged through the whole length of the glacier , every part of it will be moving with the same velocity , and it will be continually shearing over two of the similar adjacent strips , and being sheared over by two others .
The position of each of these elementary prisms in the transverse section of the glacier is determined by rectangular coordinates ; and in terms of these , its length , included in the trapezoid .
The work of its weight , while it passes through the transverse section into its actual position , is then determined , and the work of its shear , and the work of its friction .
A double integration of each of the functions , thus representing the internal work in respect to a given elementary prism , determines the whole internal work of the trapezoid , in terms of the space traversed by the middle of the surface in one day , the spaces traversed by the upper and lower edges of the side , and a symbol representing the unit of shear .
WVell-known theorems serve to determine the work of the shear and the friction of the bottom and side in terms of the same quantities .
All the terms of the equation above referred to are thus arrived at in terms of known quantities , except the unit of shear , which the equation thus determines .
The comparison of this unit of shear ( which is the greatest possible , in order that the glacier may descend by its weight alone ) with the actual unit of shear of glacier ice ( determined by experiment ) , shows that a glacier cannot descend by its weight only ; its shearing force is too great .
The true unit of shear being then substituted for its symbol in the equation of condition , the work of the force , which must come in aid of its weight to effect the descent of the glacier , is ascertained .
The imaginary case to which these computations apply , differs from that of an actual glacier in the following respects .
The actual glacier is not straight , or of a uniform section and slope , and its channel is not of uniform roughness .
In all these respects the resistance to the descent of the actual glacier is greater than to the supposed one .
But this being the case , the resistance to shearing must be less , in order that the same force , viz. the weight , may be just sufficient to bring down the glacier in the one case , as it does in the other .
The ice in the natural channel must shear more easily than that in the artificial channel , if both descend by their weight only ; so that if we determine the unit of shear necessary to the descent of the glacier in the artificial channel , we know that the unit of 205 shear necessary to its descent by its weight only in the natural channel must be less than that .
A second possible difference between the case supposed and the actual case lies in this , that the velocities of the surface-ice at different distances from the edge , and at different heights from the bottom , are assumed to be proportional to those distances and heights ; so that the mass of ice at any time passing through a transverse section may be bounded by plane surfaces , and have a trapezoidal form .
This may not strictly be the case .
All the measurements , however , show that if the surfaces be not plane , they are convex downwards .
In so far therefore as the quantity of ice passing through a given section in a day is different from what it is supposed to be , it is greater than it .
A greater resistance ( other than shear ing ) is thus opposed to each day 's descent , and also a greater weight of ice favours it ; but the disproportion is so great between the work of the additional resistance to the descent , and that of the additional weight of ice in favour of it , that it is certain that any such convexity of the trapezoidal surface would necessitate a further reduction of the unit of shear , to make the weight of the actual glacier sufficient to cause it to descend .
A third difference between the actual glacier and the imaginary one , to the computation of whose unit of shear the following formulae are applied , is this-that the formulae suppose the daily motion of the surface of the glacier and the daily motion of its side to have been measured at the same place , whereas there exist no measurements of the surface motion and the side motion at the same place .
The surface motion used has been that of the Mer de Glace at Les Ponts , and the side motion that of the Glacier du Geant at the Tacul-both from the measurements of Prof. Tyndall .
This error again , however , tends to cause the unit of shear , deduced from the case of the artificial glacier , to be greater than that in the actual one ; for the Glacier du Geant moves more slowly than the Mer de Glace .
The quantity of ice which actually passes through a section at Les Ponts is therefore greater than it is assumed in the computation to be , whence it follows , as in the last case , that the computed unit of shear is greater than the actual unit of shear .
To determine the actual value of It ( the unit of shear in the case of ice ) the following experiment was made .
Two pieces of hard wood , each three inches thick and of the same breadth , but of which one was considerably longer than the other , were placed together , the surfaces of contact being carefiully smoothed , and a cylindrical hole , l1 inch in diameter , was pierced through the two .
The longer piece was then screwed down upon a frame which carried a pulley , over which a cord passed to the middle of the shorter piece , which rested on the longer .
There were lateral guides to keep the shorter piece from deviating sideways when moved on the longer .
The hole in the upper piece being brought so as accurately to coincide with that in the lower , small pieces of ice were thrown in , a few at a time , and driven home by sharp blows of a mallet on a wooden cylinder .
By this means a solid cylinder of ice was constructed , accurately fitting the hole .
Weights were then suspended from the rope , passing over the pulley until the cylinder of ice was sheared across .
As by the melting of the ice , during the experiment , the diameter of the cylinder was slightly diminished , it was carefully measured with a pair of callipers .
1st experiment.-lRadius of cylinder '65625 in .
, sheared with 98 lbs. 2nd experiment.-Radius of cylinder '70312 in .
, sheared with 119 lbs. By the first experiment the shear per square inch , or unit of shear , was 72-433 lbs. ; by the second experiment it was 76-619 lbs. The main unit of shear of ice , from these two experiments , is therefore 75 lbs. Now it appears by the preceding calculations , that to descend by its own weight , at the rate at which Prof. Tyndall observed the ice of the Mer de Glace to be descending at the Tacul , the unit of shearing force of the ice could not have been more than 1'3193 lb.* To determine how great a force , in addition to its weight , would be necessary to cause the descent of a glacier of uniform section and slope , such as has been supposed in the calculations , let u represent , in inch-lbs .
, the work of that force in twenty-four hours .
Then assuming the unit of shear ( p ) in glacier ice to be 75 lbs. , it follows , by the principle of virtual velocities , that u=94134000+1012560-2668400 =92478160 inch-lbs.= 7706513 foot-lbs.t This computation has reference to half only of the width of the glacier , and to 23'25 inches of its length .
The work , in excess of its weight , required to make a mile of the imaginary glacier , 466 yards broad and 140 feet deep , descend , as it actually does descend per twenty-four hours , is represented by the horse-power of an engine , which , working constantly day and night , would yield this work , or by 2 x7706513 x 5280 x 12 23 2x 24 x 60 x 3000 =88378 h. The surface of the mass of ice , on which the work u is required to be done , in aid of its weight , to make it descend as it actually does , is 124771*5 square inches .
The work required to be done on each square inch of surface , supposing it to be equally distributed over it , is therefore , 7706513.76 .
in foot-lbs .
, = 7G 76 .
1247715 These 61'76 foot-lbs .
of work are equivalent to *0635 heat-units , or to the heat necessary to raise '0635 lb. of water by one degree of Fahrenheit .
This amount of heat passing into the mass of the glacier per square inch of surface per day , and reconverted into mechanical work there , would be sufficient , together with its weight , to bring the glacier down .
The following considerations may serve to disabuse some persons of the idea of an unlimited reservoir of force residing somewhere in the prolongation of a glacier backward , and in its higher slopes , from which reservoir the pressure is supposed to come which crushes the glacier over the obstacles in its way .
Let a strip of ice one square inch in section , and one mile in length , in the middle of the surface of the imaginary glacier , be conceived to be separated from the rest throughout its whole length , except for the space of one inch , so that throughout its whole length , except for that one inch , its descent is not retarded either by shear or by friction .
Let , moreover , this inch be conceived to be at the very end of the glacier , so that there is no glacier beyond it .
Now it may easily be calculated that this strip of ice , one inch square and one mile long , lying on a slope of 4 ? ?
52 ' , without any resistance to its descent , except at its end , must press against its end , by reason of its weight , with a force of 194'42 lbs. But the cubical inch of solid ice at its extremity opposes , by the shear of its three surfaces , whose attachment to the adjacent ice is unbroken , a resistance of 3x 75 lbs. , or 225 lbs. That resistance stops therefore the descent of this strip of ice , one mile long , having no other resistance than this opposed to its descent , by reason of its detachment from the rest* .
It is clear , then , that it could not have descended by its weight only when it adhered to the rest , and when its descent was opposed by the shear of its whole length ; and the same may be proved of any number of miles of strip in prolongation of this .
Also , with obvious modifications , it may be shown , in the same way , to be true of any other similar strip of ice in the glacier , whether on the surface or , not , and therefore of the whole glacier .
It results from this investigation that the weight of a glacier is insufficient to account for its descent ; that it is necessary to conceive , in addition to its weight , the operation of some other and much greater force , which must also be such as would produce those internal molecular displacements and those strains which are observed actually to take place in glacier ice , and must therefore be present to every part of the glacier as its weight is , but more than thirty-four times as great .

