On the Optical and Physical Properties of Tabasheer .
By David B3rewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Lond. and Edin .
In a Letter to the iRight IHon .
Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. , -c .
Read M-ay 6 .
1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 283 .
] Tabasheer is a substance found in the cavities of the banmboo , existing originally in the state of a transparent fluid , but gradually indurating into a solid of different degrees of hardness : it consists of 70 silica , + 30 potash and lime .
One variety has a milky transi parency , transmitting a yellowish , and reflecting a bluish light ; another is translucent , and a third opalke : the two first varieties become transparent , and evolve air when immersed in water : the thirdl evolves air also , but remains opake .
If the first varieties be only slightly wetted they become quite opake .
The property of acquiring transparency by the evolution of air from , and the absorption of water by its pores , belongs also to the hydrophanous opal ; but the faculty of becoming opake by a small quantity , and transparent by a larger , of water , shows a singularity of structure in tabasheer .
As the tabasheer disengages more air than hydrophane , its pores must be more numerous ; and therefore the transmission of light , so as to form a perfect image , indicates either a very feeble refractive power or some peculiarity in the construction of its pores .
To determine this , Dr. Brewster formed a prism of tabasheer with an angle of 340 15 ' , and upon measuring its refractive power found it very low , though various in different specimens , the index of refraction varying from 1I11 to 1-18 , that of water being 1-33 , of flintglass 1-60 , of sulphur 2-11 , of phosphorus 2-22 , and of the diamond 2-47 .
So that tabasheer has a lower refractive power than any other solid or liquid , and holds an intermediate place between water and the gases .
Dr. Brewster then gives a formula for computing the absolute refractive power of bodies , and a table of results , from which it appears that , in this respect , the refractive power of tabasheer is so low as to be separated by a considerable interval from all other bodies .
The author next proceeds to detail a variety of experiments upon the absorbent powers of the different kinds of tabasheer , in respect to several liquids , and the corresponding effects upon its optical properties and specific gravity , and concludes with observations on the cause of the paradox exhibited by the transparent tabasheer , in becoming opake by absorbing a small quantity of water , and transparent when the quantity is increased .

