]\gt ; The of a Spinning Shell .
B. H. FOWLER , E. G. GALLOP , C. N. H. LOCK , and H. W. .S .
( Received January 14 , 1920 .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper to which this abstract is meant to serve as a non-technical introduction contains the results of work undertaken at the request of the Ordnanc , Committee and is published with their permission .
( 1 ) The Problems of erimental External Ballistics.\mdash ; A spinning shell through the air is subjected in general to a complex reaction , which is determined primarily by its motion relative to the air .
But a shell has an axis of symmetry , and when this axis of symmetry , its axis of rotation , and the direction of motion of its centre of gravity through the air all coincide the reaction naturally assumes its simplest form .
When a shell is lloving in such a manner it may be said to be moving " " nose-on\ldquo ; through the air , and it is a matter of experience ) a shell a suitable axial spin , it may be made to move practically nose-on through the air considerable distances .
Under such conditions the symmetry clearly demands that the reaction of the air shall reduce to a single force , .
in the direction of motion reyersed , which therefore merely tends to destroy the linear velocity of the shell , and couple about the axi-- of symmetry , which tends to destroy the axial spin .
The latter is comparatively unimportant , and it appears that , so long as the motion remains practically nose-on , the problem of determining the motion of the shell is reduced to one of particle dynamics , whose solution is now classical .
The object of all calculations of the motion of a shell is , of course , to determine , given the initial circumstances of projection , the position and velocity of the shell at any subsequent time .
In order to complete this calculation in the simple case of nose-on motion we require a numerical knowledge of the one and only force component that matters\mdash ; the drag , in aerodynamical .
This must be determined for a shell of the shape in use travelling nose-on at all velocities , through air in all conditions all peratures and densities ) .
Once this determination has been made , the limited problem of nose-on motion may be regarded as completely solved .
Now we cannot calculate the drag a priori ; its variation with velocity obeys no simple law , and can only be tabulated numerically by the analysis of observations , which can only be made of the initial motion of the shell over a fairly limited range .
But by observation and analysis of initial Messrs. Fowler , Gallop , Lock , and Richmond .
motions at various velocities we can determine the retardation , and so , as a function of the velocity of the shell .
We cannot control the air conditions and at present only guess how they will affect the drag , but the guess is guided by the theory of dimensions and is probably fairly reliable .
The luired calculations of the motion can therefore be made .
The comparison of calculations and obseryations shows good reement in and height when the axial spin is suitable , and the total angle turned through by the tangent to the trajectory is less than ( say ) ) .
The lated trajectory , however , is a curve lying in the vertical plane , containing the original direction of projection , while the observed positions of the shells do not lie in this plane , but appreciably to the right of it , when the axial spin is right-hallded .
well-known from the original vertical plane is called drift and converts ' the trajectory into a twisted curve .
It cannot be accounted for on the assumption of nose-on motion .
Particle dynamics thus fails to explain the drift , the phenomena of trajec- tories of large total curvature , and the behaviour of shells with unsuitable axial spin , with which is bound up the whole question of the stability of the nose-on motion and the angular oscillatioJlS of the axis , rel.erred to later .
In all such cases the assumption of nose.on motion breaks down and tlJe directions of the axis and the motion of the centre of gravity of the shell no coincide .
In such a case the angle between the two directions is called the the problem becomes one of rigid dynamics , and the general sy stem of 1eactions ou a yawed shell must be determined in order that it may be possible to submit to calculation the motion of the shell .
The reaction on a yawed shell never previously been studied experimentally , but a ning has been made , with this object in view , in the experiments to be described in our paper , which are with a full theoretical discussion of the motion .
We can , of course , as in the former case , only study experimentally the initial motion of the shell , but the information so obtained can be applied as before to the calculation of the whole trajectory .
Experiments Shells.\mdash ; The experiments described deal with the flight of a 3-inch shell fired with velocities from 900 .
to .
over a range of 600 feet from the muzzle of the .
They are confined to the study of the angular oscillations of the axis of the shell relative to the direction of motion of the centre of gravity .
It is shown that effects of gravity on the angular motion of the axis are negligible over this range , so that a shell with sufficient spin from the le of the with its axis at rest parallel to its direction of motion would retain such a position over the whole 600 feet .
The possibility of these experiments therefore depends on the faco that the shell actually The Spinning Shell .
receives a disturbance at the muzzle sufficient to give rise to angular oscillations of measurable amplitude .
The details of these oscillations are obtained by setting up a number of cardboard targets at right angles to the horizontal path of the shell , and measuring the shape of the resulting holes .
If the axis of the shell is inclined to its direction of motion , the hole in the card will be ated ; the length of the longer axis of the hole determines the angle of between the axis of the shell and its direction of motion ; the orientation of the longer axis of the hole determines the azimuth of the plane containin the axis and direction of motion ( the plane of yaw ) ; these two co-ordinates determine the direction of the axis completely .
It was found possible to make measurements of the direction of the axis with probable error of bout 0 .
The instant of passing each card is also required , obtained by determining the time interval between one or }airs of chronograph screens , by means .
the air resistance tables for nose-on motion modified .
In this way the velocity of the shell at each poin of the range was also obtained .
In the results of the experiments , the equations of motion of a rigid body are applied to the shell .
The only forces those impressed by the air ( assuming that gravity may be ected ) .
So far as possible the equation.3 of lllotion are solved with the valious components left as unknown functions .
By comparing the solution with the observed motion of the shell , it is possible to deduce the magnitude of the various force components .
If a shell is moving at constant speed without angular velocity , the resultant force due to air resistance must by symmetry lie in the plane of yaw ( fig. 1 ) .
It is convenient to resolve this three components , as follows : Two force components through the centre of gravity\mdash ; ( i ) The drag , , in the direction of motion OP reversed ; ( ii ) The cross-wind force , , perpendicular to OP in the plane of yaw from to ; and the moment , , of the resultant force about the cen tree of gravity tending to increase the yaw .
For an actual shell in flight the forces acting will be modified by the angular velocities .
These modifications may be expected to be small .
Messrs. Fowler , Gallop , Lock , and Richmond .
The ular motion of the axis depends directly on the effect the moment , , and only indirectl on through their in modifying the velocity and yaw on which depends .
It is reasonable to assume , as first approximation , that so far as ends on the yaw , , it is proportional to so as is snlall .
Writing , we find that the periods of the ular oscillations of the shell depend only on and known data .
For each round fired , the lneastlred period of the oscillations determines a yalue of corresponding to the mean velocity of the shell down the range .
The diminution of velocity over the range is too small to effect the value of ) reciably , but by firing shell at a number of different muzA le cities the variation of with velocity is determined .
The determination of the moment , , is the principal object of the eriments .
It is determined as a function of for two erent types of shell over a range of velocities from 900 to 2300 , and the results are supplemented by a determination in a wind channel which probably applies to velocities up to , and is consistent with the determination other velocities .
Rounds were fired from two guns with different liflings , the pitch being 1 turn in 30 diameters of the bore , and 1 in 40 respectiveIy .
The results from rounds with different spins were consistent and form a The Aerodynamics of a Spinning Shell .
valuable check on the accuracy of the method .
The results comprise the only determination yet made of the moment of the fluid forces on a body moving at velocities at which the compressibility of the air produces marked effects .
The curves show the calculated path of a point on the axis of the shell .
The circles mark observed points on the path for Round I24 of the full paper .
One of the two types of shell fired was loaded so as to give an extreme iation of the position of centre of gravity of about 1 inch .
From the resulting variation of the value of the moment , , it was possible to reduce rough values for the cross-wind force , , assuming that the drag he Aerodynamics of a inning Shell , is known approximately .
Details of the values of and obtained are given in the full paper .
It appears in the complete discussion that there is a close analogy between the 1notion of the shell and that of a top under the action of gravity .
The is exact if is constant and the direction of motion , OP , hxed .
The angular velocities and moments of inertia of the shell about its of gravity correspond to those of a top about its point ; the corresponds to the moment of ravity about the point of the top .
In particular , the condition for the stability of small oscillations is the same for both .
This result ives perhaps the most ortant practical application of the experiments , since a , of makes it possible to determine the exact spin which must to a shell to make it stable .
In addition to the foregoing , some results were obtained as to the damping of the initial oscillations .
These results are important , since a stable shell would be llseless if oscillatio1ls , which it inevitably possesses , were not rapidly da1nped out .
The question is also of interest since the application of any sort friction couple to a top , while tending to damp the oscillations of one period , always augments those of the other .
* In the case of a shell , however , the fact that the centre of gravity is not fixed , but can react to the forces by the axial oscillations , a spiral , this is not case .
Theory shows that a reasonable friction couple can be yined to act , which , in combination with the spiral motion of the centre of gravity , will damp out the whole initial disturbance , in a nlanner agreeing , at least qualitatively , with the damping recorded in our experiments .
of and ) result of a ca !
culaon the theory we develop , is shown in fig. , where the angles and are plotted against the time , and in fig. 3 , where the actual path of a point ou the axis is shown with the angles Sand as polar co-ordinates .
The values of the force components and the initial conditions were adjusted to ht the observations of each particular round , and the curves were then calculated from the theory .
The observations of and ilre plotted for comparison .
The average difference between the obsel'Ved and calculated values of in this case about .
Similar curves , drawn by eye to fit the observations in the process of analysing them , are given in the full paper .
They are of exactly the same type as the calculated curve shown here .
In conclusion , we may repeat that , generally speaking , it is possible to calculate the exact motion of a shell over a complete trajectory with the help * The small oscillations of a top near the vertical consist of a combination of terms of two distinct periods .
Vibrations of an Elastic Plate in Contact Water .
205 of the knowledge obtained from a study of its initial motion .
In particular , it can be shown that the curyat , ur of the trajectory caused by gravity gives rise to a yaw of the axis of the shell to the right of the vertical plane containing the direction of projection ( when the spin is right-handed ) , which increases along the trajectory .
cross-wind force caused by this yaw acts to the and causes the drift mentioned above .
Calculations of the drift based on the tion obtained from these experiments have been made and found in fair reement with the observed value .
The breakdown of the usual approximation of nose-on motion at end of very long or sharply curved tories can also be studied by means of modified equations of motions suitable for the case in which the and drift effects become , provided the values of the corresponding connponents have been obtained .
This can be done by the analysis of initial motions in which the shells are almost or quite unstable , and large of the yaw are developed in consequence .
Such observations have been made , but their analysis has not yet been lrried out .
In practice , however , large values of the yaw do not in general occur until the velocity of the shell has fallen to a low value , so that this case is largely covered by wind-channel experiments .
On the Vibrations of an Elasiic Plate in Contact with Water .
By LAMB , F.B.S. ( Received October 6 , 1920 .
) In connection with the problem of submarine question alose as to the pitch of the fundamental note of a thin circular plate or diaphragm of given material and dimensions , filling an aperture in a plane wall which is in contact on one side with an otherwise unlimited mass of water .
The following inyestigation , which includes some extensions , is now published by permission .
To simplify the theoretical treatment , the wall is supposed to be and the plate to be firmly clamped to it along the circumference , although these conditions are only imperfectly fulfilled in practice .
Even with these limitations an exact solution is out of the question , but a sufficient approximation can be obtained by Rayleigh 's method of an assumed type , * which gives good results if the type be suitably chosen .
It is known that the frequency estimated in this way will be somewhat too high .
'Theory of Sound , ' S90 .

