]\gt ; 1880 .
] Mr. R. C. Bow .
Memoir Abel 's heorem .
515 We may , therefore , expect that whenever the viscous effect is great reIatively to the hardening effect , a wire will show to greater advantage as regards its strength , and to less as regards its elongation , when tested quickly than when tested slowly .
This is probably the case with tin , copper , and other metals in which the viscous effect is great , [ I have not tested tin wires , but copper and also brass wires show a perceptible hardening fect under constant stress , much less , however , than that shown by soft iron .
] Whell , on the contrary , the .
effect is great relatively to the viscous effect , a wire will show to greater advantage as ards breaking strength , and to as regards elonoationo ' the more ] owly it is tested .
This is the case with soft iron , at least ill circumstances like those of the above experiments .
The experiments show that even such variations in the rate of , or intermissions of stress as are lial ) to occur in practical testing , are sufficient to affect most matcrially the results of the test .
A batch of specimens cut from the same coil , and similarly treated in every way , give very closely accordant resuIts when tested with the same rate of increment of stress .
The examples quoted above are all taken from the same batch of specimens .
One peculiarity is common to them and to all the other specimens in the same batch , namely , the double curvature , which appears in the rams fioon after the limit of elasticity has been passed .
On the other hand , other spccimens cut from the same bundle of wire , but annealed at another time , do not show this peculiarity .
The examples gi may fairly be taken as representative of a number of tests .
I am now the expel'iments ; but it appeared to me that the results already arrived at were of sufficieut interest to excuse their presentation in this somewhat crtlde form .
VIII .
" " Memoir ou Theorem By B. C. } , Fellow Trinity , Cambridge .
Communicated by A. LL. D. , F.R. , Sadlerian Professor of Pu ] thematics in the Uniyersity of Cambridge .
Received lIay 27 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to present in a shortened and simplified form processes and the results of Abel 's famous lemoir , " " un proprieto gonerale d'une class tres .
otendue de foncbions transcendantes composed and offered to the Frellch Institute in but first published in the " " Memoires des Savans \ldquo ; for 1841 .
V0L .
516 Mr. R. C. .
Memoir Abel 's Theorem .
[ June 10 , The generality and the power of this memoir are well known , but its form is not attractive .
Boole , indeed , in a paper on a kindred subject ( Phil. Trans. for 1857 , pp. 745\mdash ; 803 ) says , " " As presented in the writings of Abel . . .
the of the comparison of transcendants is repulsive , from the complexity of the formulae in which its general conclusions are embodied Boole 's theorems : bowever , escape this charge only with loss of the generality which makes Abel 's valuable .
But this complexity is rather apparent than fundamental .
It is attempted , by rearrangement of parts , by separation of essential from non-essential steps , by changes of notation , in particular by tlJe int1oduction of a symbol and a theorem discussed by Boole in the paper already referred to , and by the addition of examples of the pro .
cesses and results , to reduce this part of an important subject to a shape more simple , while no less general , than the original .
Of the three sections which compose the paper the first contains.the discussion of the main question , always possible to between the values for drfferent variof integral of an algebraic function however complex , algebraic , the riables themselves beiconnected by any requisite algelaws ' If , for example , , where X is an algebraic function of , rational or irrational , integral or fractional , is it necessarily possible by connecting by any requisite algebraic laws to obtain an algebraic ( or logfrithmic ) expression for the sum .This question is suggested on the one hand by such well-known results as constant , where , if and where if ; on the other hand by the possibility of finding algebraical expressions for many symmetric functions of the roots of equations , though these roots may not be separately det , erminable .
This combination of the theory of and the theory of equations furnishes in fact the key to the problem , as enabling us to express the " " requisite algebraic laws\ldquo ; very concisely by a single equation of which the variables are roots , and whose coefficients not independent but connected by a corresponding number of relations .
$ .
1880 .
] Mr. B. C. Row .
on Abel 's Theorem .
517 The notation is this : \mdash ; We first , to escape the inconvenience of irrational and fractional forms , introduce two functions , , where X , the subject of integration , being determined as a function of by the equation where . . .
are rational integral functions of .
, and therefore a rational integral function of ; while is rational , but not necessarily integral .
This assumption will cover all cases .
[ For example , in the case we the equations We next so that its denominator shall be the product of , the coefficient of with respect to , and a function of only , and write This is shown to be always possible .
We then introduce the equation whose roots are the variables of the functions we add .
This equation is obviously not .
It is necessary and sufficient to take the resuIt of eliminating / between and any other function of / ' which by the use of can be made of ( at most ) the .
\mdash ; lth degree in ?
/ Let this function be . .
and let bhe result of elimination be called E. Here are rational functions of , and is a function of and of their cocfficients .
It may happen that , to relations between these coefficicnts , the equation is satislied by values of i1ldepe]ldent of them .
Let be the product of the corresponding factors , and write .
It only remains to define a symbol , used by Boole in his paper on the rison of transcendants .
The following is his definition:\mdash ; " " If ( any function of composed of two factors , , whereof is rational , let denote the result obtained by successively developing fuuction in Mr. B. C. Row .
Memoir on A bel 's Theorem .
[ June 10 , powers of each simple factor in the denominator of , taking in each development the coefficient of , adding to .
gether the coefficients thus obtained , and subtracting from the result the coefficient of in the development of the same function in descending verse of Then the theorem of this section is This formula is more general than either of Boole 's , while it seems more concise and intelligible than that of Abel to tvhich it corresponds .
The rest of this section is occupied with the apphcation of the theorem to several simple cases .
Those have been chosen of which the results were well nown elliptic ftlnctions ) , with a view to the comparison of method .
In the second section it is shown to follow from the results of Section I that the sum of any number of integrals of the form considered may be expressed in terms of a number of such integrals equal to the number of conditions necessarily connecting the variables in the propositio1l already discussed ; and the question is investigated .
is the lue of which of conditions is susceptible ' It is proved independent of everything but the form of the equation .
by which is determined as a function of ; the answer being that if this equation has roots of the form .
of the form so on , then this least number is The expressions for the roots are according to descending powers of ; each is a fraction in its lowest terms with denominator positive ; the series , etc. , are in descending order of magnitude ; and this equality of powers in sets is shown to subsist .
This section concludes with an example of its processes .
The third section contains three distinct parts : first , a generalization of the theorem of Sectiou I , showing that a similar expression to that Cauchy had used in his " " Calcul des idus " " a symbol which only differs from this in the bsence of the subtractive term last mentioned .
1880 .
] Mr. R. C. Row .
on Theorem .
obtained there may be found for the sum of any number of functions each multiplied by any rational number , positive or negative , inteoralo .
or fractional ; secondly , an investigation of the conditions that the algebraic expression obtained for the sum of the integrals considered in Section I may reduce to a constant ; and lastly , a discussion , as an example of all the results of the paper , of the case where and being rational integral functions , while is a root of the equation and A considerable simplification is introduced into the second part of this section by placing it after ( instead of , with Abel , before ) tion II .
In the Appendix will be found notes on three points in the paper ; and a list\mdash ; it is hoped complete\mdash ; of the errata in Abel 's There follows an addition from Professor Cayley , wherein it is shown that the foregoing expression for the least value of the number of conditions is equaI to the deficiency ( Gesc ; hlecht ) of the curve represented by the equation .
That this least vain is equal to the deficiency is a leading result Riemann 's theory of the Abelian integrals ; the assumptions as to the form of the roots of the equation considered as an equation for the ermination of are equivalent to the assumption that the has certain ularities ; and it is the addition that the resulting value of the deficiency , as calculated by the formulae in ofessor Cayley 's paper " " On the Higher ularities of a Plane Curve Quart .
lfath .
Journ. , vol. vii ( 1866 ) , pp. 212-222 , has in fact the foregoing value .

