Absorption of Gases at a Gold Surface .
that is .
^ = _4 7T*UC COS2 | 6 { 2o* Sin | 0}* \#171 ; **\#166 ; **+*\#171 ; x[Fi + 2 ( sin4 \#163 ; e + sin4 \#163 ; 61 ) eKFa ] .
The corresponding results for a perfectly absorbing surface or an imperfectly conducting surface can be obtained from the above * The Electrical Condition of a Gold Surface during the Absorption of Gases and their Catalytic Combustion .
By Harold Hartley , M.Sc.f ( Communicated by Prof. William A. Bone , F.R.S. Received January 26 , \#151 ; Read March 12 , 1914 .
) Introduction .
In 1905 Bone and Wheeler , in their memoir upon " The Combination of Hydrogen and Oxygen in Contact with Hot Surfaces , drew attention to the possible connection between the electrical conditions of hot surfaces and their-power of rendering " condensed " or " occluded " gases chemically active .
Shortly afterwards Bone and Makower , in a series of unpublished experiments , observed that a gold surface becomes negatively electrified during the catalytic combination of hydrogen and oxygen at 300 ' or thereabouts .
The recent inventions , by Bone and his co-workers , of processes of " flameless incandescent surface combustion/ ' whereby the constituents of an explosive gaseous mixture , in correct combining proportions , are caused to combine at a highly accelerated rate , and without development of flame , in contact with ( or within the pores or interstices of ) an incandescent solid , have again called attention to the important role played by hot surfaces in accelerating combustion , and to the great economic advantages derivable therefrom .
The phenomenon is now known to depend upon a peculiar " activation " of the combustible gas , and probably of the oxygen also , by * 4 Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 212 , p. 337 ( 1913 ) .
t Late holder of the Fellowship for Gas Research established by the Institution of Gas Engineers at the University of Leeds .
X i Phil. Trans./ A , vol. 206 , pp. 1-67 ( 1906 ) .
g2 Mr. H. Hartley .
Electrical Condition of a association with the surface .
At relatively low temperatures the intensity of such action varies with the chemical characters and physical condition of the surface , but it rapidly increases with the temperature until at bright incandescence there is little to choose between the catalysing power of chemically different surfaces , porosity and refractoriness being now the dominant factors.* In a discussion upon the subject at the British Association in 1910 , Sir J. J. Thomson remarked , " It was not improbable that the emission of charged particles from the surface was a factor of primary importance ... .
and he suggested " that the action of surfaces might ultimately be found to depend on the fact that they formed a support for layers of electrified gas in which chemical charges proceed with high velocity/ 'f The experiments recorded in this paper were carried out by the author under the supervision of Prof. Bone , while holding the Research Fellowship established by the Institution of Gas Engineers at the University of Leeds ; they prove the existence of an intimate relationship between the occlusion of gas by a hot metallic surface and its electrical condition , whilst indirectly they lend support to the view , recently put forward by J. A. Harker , | J. N. Priug , S and others , that the well known electronic emission from incandescent solids is probably dependent upon the occlusion of gas .
Experimental .
The Apparatus\#151 ; Gold was selected as the most suitable metal for the principal experiments because ( 1 ) of its marked catalysing power at moderate temperatures , and ( 2 ) of its not forming any definite chemical compound with any of the gases under investigation ( hydrogen , carbon monoxide , or oxygen ) .
For whilst it is not nearly so active in promoting combustion at low temperatures as metals of the platinum group , its action is more amenable to control than theirs ; moreover , although its activity is of about the same order as that of nickel , it displays no appreciable tendency to either oxide or carbonyl formation under the required experimental conditions .
The metal was employed in the form of a gauze of fine gold wire , of 22 strands ( each 0*15 mm. in diameter ) per centimetre , which had been specially woven by Messrs. Johnson and Matthey for Bone and Wheeler 's experiments ( loc. eit .
) .
* Bone , 4 Journ. Franklin Institute , ' 1912 , p. 107 ; also 4 Ber .
Deut .
Chem. Ges .
, ' 1913 , vol. 46 , p. 14 .
+ 4 Brit. Assoc. Reports,5 1910 ( Sheffield ) , p. 501 .
t J- A. Harker and G. W. C. Kaye , 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 86 , p. 379 ( 1912 ) , and A , vol. 88 , p. 522 ( 1913 ) .
S J. N. Pring , 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 89 , p. 344 ( 1913 ) .
Gold Surface during Absorption of Gases .
63 An insulated roll , A ( see diagram ) , of this gauze was suspended from a gold wire , A'A ' , in a cylindrical Jena-glass bulb , BB , of about 75 c.c. capacity , which was heated to the desired experimental temperature in the air-bath , DD , the gas supply of which was suitably controlled .
The gold wire , A'A ' , was threaded through the horizontal glass capillary tube C , which passed through the ebonite plug F. The joints between ( 1 ) wire and glass at 0 , ( 2 ) the tube C and plug F , and ( 3 ) the plug F and the lateral branch , EE , of the main apparatus , were rendered air-tight by means of sealing wax ; the gauze A thus insulated was connected through the wire A'A'A ' with a quadrant electrometer ( not shown in the diagram ) .
Qm^m ~c TO QUADRANT ^ ELECTROMETERS f ?
TO CAS HOLDER TO A/ R PL/ A/ JP A/ R BATH Mr. H. Hartley .
Electrical Condition of a \ As to the remaining parts of the apparatus , the upper part of the bulb BB terminated in a wide vertical tube G , leading through a ground-glass joint , H , to a tube , K , containing phosphoric anhydride , previously re-distilled m a current of dry oxygen over platinised asbestos .
The under part of A terminated in a narrow hard-glass tube L , which was bent round , first into a vertical direction and then ( after its projection out of the air-bath ) into the horizontal branch MM , as shown in the diagram .
Lateral branches from MM served ( 1 ) to complete the circuit ( through K ) with the head of the apparatus , ( 2 ) for the evacuation of the apparatus through the stopcock N , and ( 3 ) for connection with the mercurial pressure gauge P. The gas under examination entered the apparatus through the stopcock Q , having previously traversed a tube R packed with glass-wool .
The difference in temperature between the bulb A and the upper part of the apparatus was sufficient to maintain a slow movement of the gas in the apparatus during an experiment , whilst the phosphoric anhydride in K kept it dry .
The whole of the apparatus was protected from external electrostatic effects by sheathing it in aluminium foil , which was " earthed .
" 1st Series.\#151 ; Proof of Negative Charge during the Combination of Hydrogen and Oxygen in Contact with the Surface .
These experiments confirmed the previous observation of Bone and Makower ; the apparatus was exhausted and the temperature of the bulb A raised to a degree ( about 350 ' ) sufficient to make the gauze active towards electrolytic gas.* The electrometer was thereupon " earthed , " and electrolytic gas ( prepared by the electrolysis of a solution of barium hydroxide ) was slowly admitted into the apparatus up to a pressure of 450 mm. or thereabouts .
As soon as the combination of the gases in contact with the gauze had begun , the earth connection with the electrometer was broken .
There was always a steady movement of the spot of light along the scale up to about 55 divisions ( sensibility = 235 divisions per volt ) in a negative direction , corresponding to a negative charge of approximately 0*2 volt on the gauze .
Such a result could be repeated indefinitely , and the question arose : Is it to be ascribed to the actual chemical combination of the two gases at the surface , or to the absorption of the gases by the metal which presumably precedes this combination ?
It was therefore necessary to study the effects produced when each gas is separately absorbed by the metal .
* The temperature indicated by the thermometer of the air-bath was doubtless higher than that of the gauze itself ; Bone and Wheeler ( loc. cit. ) found that a temperature of 250 ' sufficed to make the gauze active towards electrolytic gas .
Gold Surface during Absorption of Gases .
2nd Series.\#151 ; The Electrical Effect dm to Absorption of Hydrogen .
At the conclusion of the previous series , the apparatus was evacuated for three hours , and the temperature of the air-bath raised to 478 ' .
Carefully purified hydrogen was thereupon introduced up to a pressure of 715 mm. , and after a further interval of 2\ hours the electrical condition of the gauze was examined ; it was then found to have acquired a negative charge of approximately'1-2 volt .
The temperature of the enclosure was thereupon lowered to 370 ' and , on the following day ( the gas having remained in contact with the metal overnight ) , the following series of observations were made , indicating a rapid charging up of the gauze after successive " earthings/ ' The sensibility of the electrometer ( charge on needle = 200 volts ) was 147 scale divisions for a charge of one volt .
Observation .
Hour .
Temperature of enclosure .
Electrometer reading .
Scale divisions .
a ) 10.46 362- 0 10.464 -244 Electrometer earthed .
( 2 ) 1 10.60 367 ' 0 1 10.604 -172 Electrometer earthed .
( 3 ) !
10.52 370 ' 0 10.52* -182 ' \#151 ; Electrometer earthed .
( 4 ) i 10.56 370 ' j 0 !
10.554 -176 Electrometer earthed .
( 5 ) 10.57 373 ' 0 10.57* -176 Electrometer earthed .
Observations ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) inclusive showed the gauze between each successive insulation and " earthing " acquired a negative charge of approximately 1-2 volts in 15 secs .
The sensibility of the electrometer was then reduced to 120 scale divisions per volt ( charge on needle = 80 volts ) , and the experiment continued .
The gauze now charged up , at a rate of about IT volt per minute , to a steady maximum of \#151 ; T5 volt .
3rd Series.\#151 ; On the Electrical Effects due to the Absorption of Oxygen .
Immediately after the conclusion of the previous series , the apparatus was exhausted , the temperature of the bath being meanwhile maintained at 370 vol. xc.\#151 ; A. tp Mr. H. Hartley .
Electrical Condition of a .
to 390 ' .
On admitting oxygen , the gauze continued to show a negative charge , which gradually diminished in intensity , however , during a period of several days , and finally gave place to a steady positive charge of + 0*8 volt , which subsequent experiments proved to be the true oxygen effect .
This greatly delayed manifestation of the true ' oxygen effect is doubtless to be ascribed to the masking effect of hydrogen occluded during the previous series of experiments , which was obstinately retained by the metal , long after the substitution of oxygen for hydrogen in the surrounding atmosphere .
Indeed , the evidence of the research as a whole pointed to two important conclusions , namely ( 1 ) that an occluded gas can only be removed with great difficulty by mere exhaustion , and will continue to manifest its peculiar effect on the electrical condition of the metal for a considerable time , even when another gas with an opposite effect is being absorbed , so that the true effect of the latter may be for a time masked , and ( 2 ) that the charge acquired by the metal is due to gas leaving ( not entering ) it , after deep occlusion , a circumstance of considerable interest in connection with the phenomenon of surface combustion .
4th Series.\#151 ; On the Electrical Effects due to the Absorption of Carbon Monoxide .
After the conclusion of the previous series the gauze was kept at the room temperature for a month in contact with air .
The apparatus was then heated up to 350 ' , and after a full day 's exhaustion at that temperature pure dry carbonic oxide was admitted up to a pressure of 463 mm. For some days the gauze continued to show a positive charge , owing to the masking effect of the residual occluded oxygen from the previous series of experiments .
This positive charge , as well as the rate of charging Up after successive " earthings " of the metal , gradually diminished , until finally ( the temperature of the apparatus having meanwhile been raised to 400 ' ) the true negative effect of the carbon monoxide , which in two successive experiments amounted to about \#151 ; 0*5 volt , asserted itself .
On subsequently lowering the temperature rather rapidly from 400 ' to 350 ' , and again testing , the gauze showed for some minutes practically no charge at all , but shortly afterwards again developed a strong negative charge .
On further rapidly lowering the temperature to about 300 ' the same thing was again observed , namely , a temporary absence of electrical effect , followed a few minutes later by a strong negative charge , this time of \#151 ; 1*0 volt .
Finally , on rapidly lowering the temperature to 250 ' , the effect again temporarily disappeared .
The above facts would seem to indicate that the electrical effect is really Gold Surface during Absorption of Gases .
67 due to occluded gas leaving the metal , for on rapidly lowering the temperature the outward flow of gas would be temporarily checked or lessened , producing a cessation or lag in the electrical effect , which was always a marked feature in the experiments .
In further support of this view may be cited some later observations on the effects of successive sudden reduction in pressure upon the magnitude of the negative charge on an insulated silver rod maintained at a constant temperature of 85 ' in an atmosphere of pure dry carbon monoxide ; the effect of a sudden reduction in pressure would be to temporarily increase the outward flow of occluded gas from the metal , which , according to the above rise , should be accompanied by an increase in the intensity of the negative charge .
A rod of pure silver , 3 mm. in diameter ( flattened at one end to 5 mm.)\gt ; was fitted in a Jena glass tube by means of an ebonite plug , through which it was connected with the leaf of a Wilson tilted electroscope .
The capacity of the apparatus was purposely made as small as possible so as to permit of a rapid lowering of pressure in the gaseous atmosphere surrounding the rod .
The actual observations were made after the rod had been maintained in contact with carbon monoxide at atmospheric pressure for a week at a temperature of 90-95 ' for most of the time , during which it had consistently shown a marked negative charge .
The temperature was finally adjusted at 85 ' , and starting with a pressure ( Pco ) of 754 mm. the effect of successive rapid diminutions in pressure upon the negative potential rod were recorded , as under:\#151 ; ( i ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 5 ) Temperature 85 ' 85 ' 85 ' 87 ' Pco 754 389 186 '5 106 '5 Deviation of the electroscope leaf 36 55 61 *0 72 -0 Deviation for a charge of \#151 ; 2/ 3 volt on electroscope leaf 68 70 70-0 76 -0 The marked rise in the negative potential of the rod after each successive reduction in the pressure of the carbon monoxide atmosphere clearly indicated that the electrical effect is due to occluded gas leaving the metal .
5th Series.\#151 ; Experiments on the Combination of 2CO-f 02over Gold .
To complete the investigation it only remained to carry out a series of observations upon the effect of the combination of a mixture of carbon monoxide and oxygen , in their combining proportions , in contact with the gold gauze similar to those already made ( 1st Series ) in the case of electrolytic gg Absorption of Gases at a Gold Surface .
f gas .
For this purpose a U-tube containing solid caustic potash , as well as a long glass spiral immersed in liquid air , were sealed in series into the upper part of the apparatus outside the air-bath to remove any carbon dioxide formed ; as rapidly as possible the temperature of the air-bath was raised to 370 ' , and after prolonged exhaustion at that temperature the mixture of carbon monoxide and oxygen in their combining ratios was admitted .
The gauze now rapidly developed a negative charge of \#151 ; 0'7 to \#151 ; 0-85 volt , which was repeatedly re-established within about one minute after each of many successive momentary " earthings " of the metal .
Conclusion .
The results of the investigation may be summarised in the following conclusion:\#151 ; ( 1 ) A gold surface acquires a negative charge during the catalytic combustion of gases in contact with it .
( 2 ) This electrical effect is probably antecedent to the actual combustion , and is primarily due to " occlusion " phenomena .
( 3 ) The metal becomes negatively charged during the occlusion of the combustible gas ( hydrogen or carbon monoxide ) , and positively charged during the occlusion of oxygen .
( 4 ) Such electrical effects are probably due to occluded gas which is leaving ( rather than entering ) the metal .
Any cause , such as a sudden lowering of temperature , which would momentarily check the outflow of occluded gas , will likewise diminish the intensity of the charge , or may even momentarily stop it altogether .
Conversely , a sudden diminution in the outside gaseous pressure in the vicinity of the metal , which would increase the rate of outflow of the occluded gas from the metal , will temporarily increase the intensity of the electrical effect .
( 5 ) Such temporary disturbances in the intensities of the electrical effects as are described in ( 4 ) are probably due to the fact that a change in either temperature or pressure of the system is accompanied by a change in the dynamic equilibrium between the in-going and out-flowing gas at the surface system , which change lies behind the exciting cause .
The bearing of the above conclusions upon the question of surface combustion will be discussed in a subsequent memoir embodying the results of further experiments by Prof. Bone and his pupils , who are now engaged upon extending the subject in the new Department of Chemical Technology at the Imperial College of Science and Technology , London .

