On the Coagulation by Heat of the fluid Blood in an aneurismal Tumour .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Communicated January 2 ?
, 1826 .
Read March 2 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part III .
p. 189 .
] In a case of aneurism of the external iliac artery , the author tied the femoral artery below the sac ; but as this neither diminished the pulsation nor arrested the increase of the tumour , he was led to introduce a needle into its centre , connected with a heated bar of steel : as no severe pain was thus produced it was retained for fifteen minutes , during which the pulsation was diminished .
On the twentieth day after the operation , the swelling having increased considerably , heat was applied as before ; but by a larger needle , retained for thirty-five minutes , this tended to diminish the pulsation , but it returned on the third day with much pain in the tumour .
On the forty-fourth day after the operation , a larger heated needle than the former was introduced for thirty minutes , when the pulsation suddenly stopped , and the patient felt free from pain .
The tumour was solid to the touch , and there was no return of pulsation in it .
The leg , however , soon afterwards became oedematous , mortification ensued , and the patient died on the ninetieth day after the operation , of the effect of the mere pressure of the tumour .
The appearance of the coagulum found in the sac after death is shown in an annexed drawing , and the author describes the general appearances of the diseased parts , among which ossification of the arterial trunks was prevalent .
He trusts that he has proved that coagulation of the blood in an aneurismal sac , by the means pointed out in this paper , is not only practicable , but that it may be resorted to without the production of any important local or constitutional symptoms .
Sir Everard next details the results of several experiments made with a view of ascertaining the effects of various temperatures upon the spontaneous coagulation of the blood .
The separation of serum he finds considerably impeded by a high temperature , but by a heat of 1200 the blood is rendered buffy ; and if drawn from the arm into a cup immersed in boiling water , and kept for some hours at that temperature , it does not form a complete coagulum .
A low temperature also interferes with its perfect coagulation ; for when drawn into a cup immersed in ice , and left there , in twenty-four hours the surface had a buffy coat , and the coagulum was extremely loose .
It has been generally believed that the cupped appearance of blood depends upon the coagulable lymph being more contractile when separated from , than when blended with , the other parts of the blood .
In a patient who suffered under inflammation of the brain , and who was bled in the course of thirteen days to the amount of sixty-eight ounces , some of the blood , though very buffy , was not at all cupped .
Its appearance was very peculiar , and the coagulum was divided into an upper dense portion , having the characters of coagulated albumen ; while the lower portion had a gelatinous appearance , and exhibited the albumen in a very attenuated state , mixed with the colouring matter .

