405 On a new Constituent of Atmospheric Air .
A.n abstract of the values obtained is given in the table ( p. 404 ) .
Part II consists of a bolometric study of the radiation emitted by ptinum at temperatures ranging from 500 ' C. to the melting point cthe metal .
It is shown that for theoretical reasons the true rate rehange of the total radiation with temperature lies between the Tues obtained by measuring the heat lost by the radiating body gd those deduced from the readings of any form of bolometer or tirmopile .
By comparing the observations of Dr. J. T. Bottomley and ihleiermacher , based on the first method , with those of F. Paschen .id of the author , made by the second method , a reliable criterion i ibtained by which to test any formula intended to express the law ( thermal radiation .
The formulae of Dulong and Petit , of Stefan , and of Rosetti fail \ en tested in this manner ; whilst Weber 's formula , from 400 ' to \gt ; g ) ' C. , gives results in close agreement with the true rate of unge of total radiation with regard to temperature .
The second part of the paper also contains a description of some spits of interest in the design of the bolometer which was used ( .ring this work .
Part III refers to the variation of the intrinsic brilliancy of plati-ttn surface with temperature .
The results may be expressed by the following formula :\#151 ; ( \#163 ; \#151 ; 400 ) = 889-6 Here t is the temperature in degrees centigrade , and 6 the intrinsic i lliancy in candle power per square centimetre .
The constant 400 shaken as the temperature limit at which the visible radiation falls itzero .
* Dn a new Constituent of Atmospheric Air .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , and Morris W. Travers .
Received ' June 3\#151 ; Read June 9 , 1898 .
This preliminary note is intended to give a very brief account m experiments which have been carried out during the past year id ascertain whether , in addition to nitrogen , oxygen , and argon , .ere are any gases in air which have escaped observation owing ii their being present in very minute quantity .
In collaboration th Miss Emily Aston we have found that the nitride of magne-sim , resulting from the absorption of nitrogen from atmospheric p , on treatment with water yields only a trace of gas ; that gas is drogen , and arises from a small quantity of metallic magnesium c iconverted into nitride .
That the ammonia produced on treatment 2 u VOL. LX1II .
406 Prof. W. Ramsay and Mr. M. W. Travers .
with water is pure has already been proved by the fact that Lq Rayleigh found that the nitrogen obtained from it had the noral density .
The magnesia , resulting from the nitride , yields only a tije of soluble matter to water , and that consists wholly of hydroxide jjd carbonate .
So far , then , the results have been negative .
Recently , however , owing to the kindness of Dr. W. Hampson , e have been furnished with about 750 cubic centimetres of liquid r , and , on allowing all but 10 cubic centimetres to evaporate a\y slowly , and collecting the gas from that small residue in a g holder , we obtained , after removal of oxygen with metallic copp , and nitrogen with a mixture of pure lime and magnesium dust , t-lowed by exposure to electric sparks in presence of oxygen ad caustic soda , 26'2 cubic centimetres of a gas , showing the argi spectrum feebly , and , in addition , a spectrum which has , we belie : , not been seen before .
We have not yet succeeded in disentangling the new spectrn completely from the argon spectrum , but it is characterised by to very brilliant lines , one almost identical in position with D3 , fd almost rivalling it in brilliancy .
Measurements made by Mr. E. ' .
C. Baly , with a grating of 14,438 lines to the inch , gave the followg numbers , all four lines being in the field at once :\#151 ; Du ... ... ... ... .
5895-0 D2 ... ... ... ... .
5889-0 D3 ... ... ... ... .
5875-9 D4 ... ... ... ... 5867-7 There is also a green line , comparable with the green helium Is in intensity , of wave-length 5568*8 , and a somewhat weaker gr\amp ; , the wave-length of which is 5560'6 .
In order to determine as far as possible which lines belong \gt ; the argon spectrum , and which to the new gas , both spectra w examined at the same time with the grating , the first order bei ?
employed .
The lines which were absent , or very feeble , in arg\lt ; \gt ; have been ascribed to the new gas .
Owing to their feeble intensi\#187 ; the measurements of the wave-lengths which follow must not p credited with the same degree of accuracy as the three already givt\gt ; but the first three digits may be taken as substantially correct : Violet . .
4317 Blue . .
4834 4387 . .
4909 H . . . .
4461 55 ... ... Green . . . . . .
5560-6 )\gt ; .
* * .
4671 . .
5568-8 55 . . . .
Blue . . . . . .
4736 4807 55 Yellow . . . . . .
5829 . .
5867-7 55 . . . .
) ) . . . . . .
4830 55 Orange ?
... . .
6011 On a new Constituent of A tmospheric Air .
Mr. Baly has kindly undertaken to make a study of the spectrum , lich will be published when complete .
The figures already given , wever , suffice to characterise the gas as a new one .
The approximate density of the gas was determined by weighing in a bulb of 32321 cubic centimetres capacity , under a pressure of L-85 millimetres , and at a temperature of 15-95 ' .
The weight of lis quantity was 0,04213 gram .
This implies a density of 22-47 , it of oxygen being taken as 16 .
A second determination , after iirking for four hours with oxygen in presence of soda , was made in 3 same bulb ; the pressure was 523 " 7 millimetres , and the temperare was 16-45 ' .
The weight was 0"04228 gram , which implies the nsity 22'51 .
The wave-length of sound was determined in the gas by the athod described in the " Argon " paper .
The data are:\#151 ; i. ii .
iii .
Wave length in air , 34-17 34-30 34-57 \gt ; \gt ; \#187 ; gas , 29-87 30-13 Calculating by the formula \2air X densityair : \2gas X density^ , : : o/ air : o/ gas , ( 34-33)2 x 14-479 : ( 30)2x 22-47 : : 1-408 : 1*666 , is seen that , like argon and helium , the new gas is monatomic and erefore an element .
From what has preceded , it may be concluded that the atmo-there contains a hitherto undiscovered gas with a characteristic lectrum , heavier than argon , and less volatile than nitrogen , oxygen , id argon ; the ratio of its specific heats would lead to the inference iat it is monatomic , and therefore an element .
If this conclusion rns out to be well substantiated , we propose to call it " krypton , " .
" hidden .
" Its symbol would then be Kr .
It is , of course , impossible to state positively what position in the iriodic table this new constituent of our atmosphere will occupy , he number 22'51 must be taken as a minimum density .
If we may azard a conjecture , it is that krypton will turn out to have the ansity 40 , with a corresponding atomic weight 80 , and will be found \gt ; belong to the helium series , as is , indeed , rendered probable by s withstanding the action of red-hot magnesium and calcium on ie one hand , and on the other of oxygen in presence of caustic \gt ; da , under the influence of electric sparks .
We shall procure a irger supply of the gas , and endeavour to separate it more com-letely from argon by fractional distillation .
It may be remarked in passing that Messrs. Kayser and Fried-inder , who supposed that they had observed D3 in the argon of the 408 Sir W. Crookes .
On Position of , atmosphere , have probably been misled by the close proximity ofhe brilliant yellow line of krypton to the helium line .
On the assumptionof the truth of Or .
Johnstone Stoney 's hios thesis that gases of a higher density than ammonia will be founia our atmosphere , it is by no means improbable that a gas lighter tin nitrogen will also be found in air .
We have already spent seval months in preparation for a search for it , and will be able to sit !
ere long whether the supposition is well founded .
" On the Position of Helium , Argon , and Krypton in ic Scheme of Elements .
" By Sir William Crookes , F.B. Received and Read June 9 , 1898 .
It has been found difficult to give the elements argon and helm ( and I think the same difficulty will exist in respect to the a if krypton ) their proper place in the scheme of arrangement of lie elements which we owe to the ingenuity and scientific acurn of Newlands , Mendeleef and others .
Some years ago , carrying a little further Professor Emerson Reynold 's idea of representing jflf scheme of elements by a zigzag line , I thought of projecting a schae in three dimensional space , and exhibited at one of the meeting ] !
the Chemical Society* a model illustrating my views .
Since tit time , I have re-arranged the positions then assigned to some of \#171 ; # less known elements in accordance with later atomic weight deir-minations , and thereby made the curve more symmetrical .
Many of the elemental facts can be well explained by supposing tai space projection of the scheme of elements to be a spiral .
This cu e is , however , inadmissible , inasmuch as the curve has to pass thrown a point neutral as to electricity and chemical energy twice in eik cycle .
We must therefore adopt some other figure .
A figure-of-eh t will foreshorten into a zigzag as well as a spiral , and it fulfils evy* condition of the problem .
Such a figure will result from three vj simple simultaneous motions .
First , an oscillation to and ( suppose east and west ) ; secondly , an oscillation at right angles\lt ; \gt ; | the former ( suppose north and south ) , and thirdly , a motion at ripn angles to these two ( suppose downwards ) , which , in it simplest foi*\gt ; i !
would be with unvarying velocity .
I take any arbitrary and convenient figure-of-eight , without rer* ence to its exact nature ; I divide each of the loops into eight egi^ parts , and then drop from these points ordinates corresponding to atomic weights of the first cycle of elements .
I have here a mu representing this figure projected in space ; in it the elements * Presidential Address to the Chemical Society , March 28,1888 .

