Contributions to the Chemical Bacteriology of Sewage .
455 Wolf ( R- ) Astronomische Mittheilungen .
LXXVTI .
8vo .
Zurich 1891 .
The Author , Phototype Portrait of Horace Benedict de Saussure .
M , Henri de Saussure April 23 , 1891 .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , D.O.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Contributions to the Chemical Bacteriology of Sewage .
" By Sir Henry E. Roscoe , F.R.S. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , and Joseph Lunt , B.Sc. , F.C.S. Received April 23 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The present research contains the results of experiments on the chemical and bacteriological examination of sewage micro-organisms , made with the object , in the first place , of ascertaining what species are there present , and , in the second , of determining some of their chemical characteristics .
The authors have isolated from crude sewage , by methods which are fully described , a number of organisms which may serve as typical examples of those usually present in this material .
Some of these have already been described , whilst others are believed to be new organisms .
The microscopic and macroscopic appearances of the organisms and their pure cultures have been carefully recorded by means of photographs , which give in a permanent form their morphological characters and the plate- and tube-cultivations in their most characteristic stages 'f growth .
This method of illustration the authors consider to be of much importance , as bacteriological descriptions of organisms are frequently of little value for the want of accurate representations of the microscopic preparations and pure cultures .
The experiments described were undertaken with the object of studying the reactions of sewage organisms from a chemical point of view , and of gaining information as to the rationale , both chemical Sir H. E. Roscoe and Mr. J. Lunt .
[ Apr. 23 , , and bacteriological , of the two marked changes which sewage is liable to undergo , i.e. , on the one hand purification , or the gradual destruction of putrescible matter without the formation of offensively smell , ing products , and on the other putrefaction .
It was desired to ascertain which organisms are concerned in the first of these processes and which iri the second , as likewise to gain an insight into the methods by which such changes are effected .
For all the organisms described , the authors have determined the absorptive power for free oxygen when cultivated in a perfectly pure state , and also for which of the organisms free oxygen is a necessity of their activity and growth .
Each organism has been examined as to its power of growth in a liquid medium from which every trace of free oxygen , both gaseous and dissolved , has been rigorously excluded .
It is shown that anaerobic organisms associated with putrefaction , although able to grow in complete absence of oxygen , yet when that gas is present are able to absorb it , and thus prepare the conditions for their anaerobic growth .
The following methods for the isolation of micro-organisms have been used:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The method of gelatine plate-culture .
( 2 .
) A method , fully described , for the isolation and cultivation of anaerobic organisms .
( 3 .
) A method for the isolation of spore-forming organisms .
( 4 .
) The dilution method .
The method used for the isolation of anaerobic organisms consists in their cultivation in a specially devised form of flask containing sterile nutrient broth , through which liquid could be passed a stream or pure hydrogen , freed from all traces of oxygen by passing over glass beads , in two Emmerling 's tubes , moistened with alkaline pyro-gallate .
As the authors have shown in a previous paper ( ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1889 , Trans. , p. 554 ) , this treatment frees the liquid completely from dissolved oxygen .
Crude sewage was carried through three cultivations in pure hydrogen , when it was found that not only had all aerobic organisms been eliminated , but only one form of anaerobic organism appeared , viz. , Proteus vulgaris , and this method may be used for its isolation .
Several other organisms , although isolated by different methods to the above , were found to grow in the pure state in nutrient broth from which all traces of free oxygen had been excluded .
These are fully described in the paper .
In the method for the isolation of spore-forming organisms , all others were eliminated by heating the sterile broth , in which a sowing had been made from crude sewage , to 80 ' C. for ten minutes .
1891 .
] Contributions to the Chemical Bacteriology of Sewage .
457 The still living spores were then further isolated by plate cultivation , , either with or without previous incubation of the broth tube .
For the purpose of studying the absorptive power for free oxygen , pure cultures were sown in sealed flasks with two necks , containing 25 c.c. of nutrient broth and 250 c.c. of air .
These were incubated at 20\#151 ; 23 ' C. for seven days , after which time the flasks were opened and the gases remaining abstracted for analysis .
It was seen that the various organisms exhibited great differences in their absorptive power for free oxygen , some showing the feeblest absorption , whilst others abstracted nearly every trace of oxygen from an atmosphere ten times as large as the culture liquid during seven days ' incubation .
The rate of absorption of dissolved oxygen was also determined for a number of the organisms by sowing tap-water aerated under known conditions , and containing a definite amount of dissolved oxygen , with 1 per cent , of a pure broth culture of the organism which had been incubated for two days after sowing .
It is shown , in the case of those organisms which absorb oxygen rapidly from the air , that the water is completely de-aerated in fourteen hours .
It is shown that certain organisms which are capable of growing in an atmosphere devoid of oxygen , i.e. , anaerobic , are yet incapable of liquefying gelatine without the presence of that element , although when grown in air such liquefaction is extremely rapid .
Cultivations were made in the form of flask referred to for anaerobic organisms , in which the organisms were sown in molten gelatine , through which pure hydrogen was passed for half an hour .
The flask was then sealed .
After five days ' incubation , no liquefaction whatever took place , although , when exposed to air , the normal rapid liquefaction of the gelatine afterwards occurred .
It is also shown , both in the case of aerobic and anaerobic organisms , that a very appreciable diminution of the liquefying power of organisms takes place after repeated sub-cultivation in nutrient gelatine .
The method employed for photographing the micro-organisms is also described .
In all cases the bacteria were stained with methyl violet , out* as this stain transmits chemically active rays , it was necessary , 1ft order to obtain actinic contrast , to use a coloured screen and iso-chromatic plates .
The screen adopted ( a weak solution of potassium bichromate ) was spectroscopically adjusted to the stain employed , so that the objects appeared black on a bright yellow background .
The apparatus employed was of the simplest kind , and the source of illumination was a common duplex paraffin lamp .
The organisms isolated from the sewage under examination are ascribed and illustrated photographically , as regards microscopic preparations and plate- and tube-cultures .

