~ .
Trans. ~ .
LXI .
Tab. VII .
p.245 .
e~ ke d Fig. III .
b Fig. II .
Fig. I. b ha k ~ ~ ~ he e d da Fig. V. afaa Fig. IV .
Fig. VI .
b Fig. VII .
e ab ~a Fig. VIII .
~ XXX .
A Letter to the Rev. M. Lort , B. D. F. R. S. containing an Account of a singular Fish , from the South Seas , by the Rev. Mr. Michael Tyson .
Reverend SIR , THE Rev. Mr. Farmer , Fellow of Emanuel college , Cambridge , very obligingly lent me a curious fish , preserved in spirits , which was brought by his relation Commodore Byron , from the new-discovered islands in the South Sea .
As I have the greatest reason to believe that it has never been figured or described by any author , and indeed never before seen in Europe ; I have taken the liberty to send you the following description and drawing of it ( TAB. VII .
fig. VIII .
) .
I could not count the branchiostegous rays , without greatly injuring the specimen ; but there is no doubt of its being one of the Perca genus of Linnaeus .
It is called by the Commodore the Zebra fish , he not knowing its proper name .
The drawing is exactly measured from the real fish , and is in every part of the same size .
Read May 9 , 1771 .
Piscis thoracicus .
Perca ****** CAPUT obtusum , antice nudum .
Os ascendens , labiis carnosis marginatum , mandibula inferiore longiore .
Dentes in maxilla utraque aequales , acerosi , approximati .
Sutura maxillarum utrinque obliqua , dentata .
Opercula branchiarum spinis serrato-ciliata .
Nares unicae , rotundae , marginatae .
Corpus ovatum , compressum , squamosum .
Pinnae basi squamosae , margin nigrae , ramentis ultra radios porrectis .
Dorsales 2 subunitae : prima , rotundata , radiis 10 spinosis , secunda angulata , radiis 16 mollibus .
Pectorales rotundatae radiis 14 .
Ventrales radiis 6 .
Analis angulata radiis 14 , anticis 2 .
spinosis .
Caudalis rotundata 18 .
Color griseus .
Fasciae 6 nigrae transversae totum piscem cingunt : prima per caput ducitur , pone oculos ; secunda per operculorum marginem ; tertia angulata , obliqua , inter pinnam primam dorsi atque anum ; quarta recta ab unione pinnarum dorsalium ad spatium pone anum ; quinta arcuata inter pinnam dorsalem secundam et pinnam analem ; sexta rectiuscula in basi pinnae caudalis .
Diagnosis .
Perca ( * ** * ) Pinnis dorsalibus subunitis , cauda rotundata , corpore ovato : fasciis 6 transversis nigris .
I am , REVEREND SIR , Your most obedient humble servant , Bennet Coll. Camb .
March 11 , 1771 .
Michael Tyson .

