457 RECENT FAUNA .
Mammalia.\#151 ; ify G.E. D , M.A. , M.B. , etc. The only indigenous mammal consists of a species of frugivorous Bat , described below , which appears to have hitherto escaped the notice of zoologists.* Bones of the rabbit , rat { Mus decumanus ) , mouse , and pig ( introduced by the settlers ) , were brought home by the collectors , but they possess no special interest .
Pteropus rodericensis .
Dobson , Catal. Chiropt .
Brit. Mus. p. 36 .
Ears slightly longer than the muzzle , but projecting by their upper third only from the long fur surrounding them ; ear-conch moderately broad in lower three-fourths , very abruptly narrowed above by flattening of the upper fourth of the inner margin and a deep concavity of the corresponding part of the outer margin , terminating in a narrow acute tip ; more than two-thirds of the concave surface of the conch is well clothed with moderately long hairs , the upper fourth and the back of the ear naked or with a few short hairs only .
Eur long and dense , in quality intermediate between that of Ft. and Ft. vulgaris ; that covering the back of the head , neck , and shoulders very long , on the back shorter but not appressed , the hairs directed backwards , extending thickly upon the wings almost as far outwards as a line drawn from the proximal third of the humerus to the knee , upon the femur , knee , and adjoining wing-membrane along the proximal third of the tibiae , about two-thirds of which are thickly covered with straight hairs directed backwards , their distal thirds being nearly naked as well as the feet ; and , although the fur of the back extends upon the interfemoral membrane , it does not conceal its posterior margin , and its lower third , supported by the calcanea , is naked .
Beneath , the antebrachial membrane is covered with long thinly-spread hairs , and similar hairs clothe the wing-membrane between the humerus and femur , and extend outwards in a broad band behind the forearm .
Face reddish brown , with a few greyish or shining hairs ; chin and throat darker brown ; top of the head and nape reddish or yellowish brown , passing into a band of bright yellow , which extends across the back of the neck from shoulder to shoulder , and downwards on the sides of the neck and thorax , limited by a longitudinal band of * Mr. Gulliver , who obtained some of the specimens of this Bat , remarks :\#151 ; " Insectivorous Bats are " entirely absent in Rodriguez , though they exist in Mauritius .
At the latter place these Bats may be seen " in the caves , but in the caves at Rodriguez I never observed a trace of them , nor did Mr. Slater , who , " from the constancy of his occupation there , could hardly have failed to see them had they existed .
" dark fur passing backwards from the chin along the thorax to the abdomen , which is clothed with dark brown fur , of which some hairs have greyish or shining extremities ; fur of the back behind the shoulders dark brown , the extremities of the hairs more or less yellowish .
In the male the extremities of the hairs on the head and back are much brighter coloured than in the female .
First upper premolar deciduous ; the second upper premolar and the second and third lower , also the first and second upper molars and the first lower , have each a small but distinct posterior basal cusp ; even the small first lower premolar has an indication of a posterior basal cusp ; last upper molar very small and circular , not as large as the first lower premolar , last lower molar slightly larger than the first lower premolar .
Length ( of an adult \lt ; ?
preserved in alcohol ) : head and body 7 " ; head 2"* 2 ; ear 0"*9 ; ear from tip of nostril 2 " ; eye from tip of nostril , 0"#8 ; forearm 4"*9 ; tliumb-metacarp , ; ph .
and claw , 1"*6 ; third finger-metacarp , 3/ /-3 ; 1st ph .
2"-4 , 2nd ph .
3/ /#55 ; fourth finger-metacarp , 3"*25 ; 1st ph .
2 " , 2nd ph .
1"*85 ; fifth finger-metacarp , 3/ /#35 , 1st ph .
1"*5 , 2nd ph .
1"*45 ; tibia , 2/ /,25 ; calcaneum , 0"*6 ; foot , r-15 .
This small species resembles Pteropus , Geoffr .
, from the island of Mauritius , in size only .
The ears project by their extremities beyond the fur of the head , and their margins are quite naked .
In Ft. rubricollis they are covered by long hairs and quite concealed by the fur ; the fur of the body is also quite different in texture , being much coarser and not in the least degree woolly , and the lower third of the tibia is naked .

