400 Dr. W. D. Halliburton .
Plasma .
[ June 16 , prepared from the nitrate .
The hydrogen was in each case prepared by electrolysis .
The water produced was free from any acid reaction , and no trace of the oxides of nitrogen could be detected .
XIX .
" On Muscle Plasma .
" By W. D. Halliburton , M.D. , B.Sc. , Assistant Professor of Physiology , University College , London .
Communicated by Prof. E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Received May 24 , 1887 .
The facts described by Kiihne relating to the properties of the muscle plasma of cold-blooded animals are true in great measure for that of mammals .
Admixture of muscle plasma with solutions of neutral salts prevents the coagulation of the latter .
Dilution of such salted muscle plasma brings about coagulation ; this occurs most readily at 37\#151 ; 40 ' C. Saline extracts of rigid muscle differ from salted muscle plasma in being acid , but resemble it very closely in the way in which myosin can be made to separate from it ; myosin in fact undergoes a recoagulation .
This is not a simple precipitation ; it is first a jellying through the liquid ; the clot subsequently contracts , squeezing out a colourless fluid or salted muscle serum .
This does not take place at 0 ' C. ; it occurs most readily at the temperature of the body , and is hastened by the addition of a ferment prepared from muscle in the same way as Schmidt 's ferment is prepared from blood .
The ferment is not identical with fibrin ferment , as it does not hasten the coagulation of salted blood plasma ; nor does the fibrin ferment hasten the coagulation of muscle plasma .
The recoagulation of myosin is also accompanied by the formation of lactic acid .
The proteids of muscle plasma are\#151 ; 1 .
Paramyosinogen , which is coagulated by heat at 47 ' C. 2 .
Myosinogen , * which is coagulated at 56 ' C. 3 .
Myoglobulin , which differs chiefly from serum globulin in its coagulation temperature ( 63 ' C. ) .
4 .
Albumin , which is apparently identical with serum albumin \#171 ; , coagulating at 73 ' C. 5 .
Myo-albumose ; this has the properties of deutero-albumose , and is identical with , or closely connected to , the myosin ferment .
The first two proteids in the above list go to form the clot of myosin ; paramyosinogen is , however , not essential for coagulation ; the three last remain in the muscle serum .
* It is on the presence of this proteid that the power of fresh muscle juice to hasten the coagulation of blood plasma depends .
1887 .
] Dispersion Equivalents .
401 Paramyosinogen , myosinogen , and myoglobulin are proteids of the globulin class .
They are all completely precipitated by saturation with magnesium sulphate , or sodium chloride , or by dialysing out the salts from their solutions .
They can be separated by fractional heat .coagulation , or by fractional saturation with neutral salts .
When muscle turns acid , as it does during rigor , the pepsin which it contains is enabled to act , and at a suitable temperature ( 35\#151 ; 40 ' C. ) albumoses and peptones are formed by a process of selfdigestion .
It is possible that the passing off of rigor , which is apparently due to the reconversion of myosin into myosinogen , may be the first stage in the self-digestion of muscle .
XX .
" Dispersion Equivalents .
Part I. " By J. H. GLADSTONE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1887 .
The idea of refraction equivalents has become familiar to those who work on the borderland of optics and chemistry , and the value of that property as a means of investigating the chemical structure of compounds is becoming more and more recognised .
There is a similar property , perhaps equally valuable for the same object , which has attracted little attention hitherto ; I allude to the equivalent of dispersion .
During the last twelve months , however , I have collated old measurements of the length of the spectrum , whether made by myself or by others , and have added many new determinations , and I -am now in a position to submit some of the results to the Society .
The history of the subject goes back to the first paper of Mr. Dale and myself upon the refraction of light , * in which we gave as one of the conclusions " the length of the spectrum varies as the temperature increases .
" In our second paperf we came to the conclusion that " there is no simple relation holding good for different liquids between the increase of volume and the decrease of dispersion by heat , " contrary to what we found to be the case with refraction .
We adopted fia\#151 ; fix , i.e. , the difference between the refractive indices for the solar lines A and H as the measure of dispersion .
This divided by the density gave the specific dispersion .
When , however , Landolt adopted the plan of calculating the " refraction equivalent , " we applied the same method to what we termed the dispersion equivalent , that is , " the difference between P^A ^ and P-H or more a d * " On the Influence of Temperature on the Refraction of Light .
" Phil. Trans. , ' 1858 , p. 8 .
f " On the Refraction , Dispersion , and Sensitiveness of Liquids .
" * Phil. Trans. , ' 1863 , p. 323 .

