1873.1 Dr. H. C. Bastian the Origin of Bacteria .
January 30 , 1873 .
GEORGE BUSK , Esq. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " Note on the Origin of Bacteria , and on their Relation to the Process of Putrefaction .
" By H. Charlton Bastian , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 20 , 1872 .
In his now celebrated memoir of 1862 , M. Pasteur asserted and claimed to have proved ( 1 ) that the putrefaction occurring in certain previously boiled fluids after exposure to the air was due to the contamination of the fluids by Bacteria , or their germs , which had before existed in the atmosphere , and ( 2 ) that all the organisms found in such fluids have been derived more or less immediately from the reproduction of germs which formerly existed in the atmosphere .
The results of a long series of experiments have convinced me that both these views are untenable .
In the first place , it can be easily shown that living Bacteria , or their germs , exist very sparingly in the atmosphere , and that solutions capable of putrefying are not commonly infected from this source .
It has now been very definitely ascertained that certain fluids exist which , after they have been boiled , are incapable of giving birth to Bacteria , although they continue to be quite suitable for the support and active multiplication of any such organisms as may have been purposely added to them .
Amongst such fluids I may name that now commonly known as " Pasteur 's solution , " and also one which I have myself more commonly used , consisting of a simple aqueous solution of neutral am-monic tartrate and neutral sodic sulphate* .
When portions of either of these fluids are boiled and poured into superheated flasks , they will continue quite clear for many days , or even for weeks\#151 ; that is to say , although the short and rather narrow neck of the flask remains open the fluids will not become turbid , and no Bacteria are to be discov ered when they are submitted to microscopical examination .
But in order to show that such fluids are still thoroughly favourable media for the multiplication of Bacteria , all that is necessary is to bring either of them into contact with a glass rod previously dipped into a fluid containing such organisms .
In about thirty-six hours after this has been done ( the temperature being about 80 ' F. ) , the fluid , which had hitherto remained clear , becomes quite turbid , and is found , on examination with the microscope , to be swarming with f. Pacts of the same kind have also been shown by Dr. Burdon Sander* In the proportion of 10 grains of the former and 3 of the latter to 1 ounce of distilled water .
f The Modes of Origin of Lowest Organisms , 18/ 1 , pp. 30 , 51 .
130 Dr. H. C. Bastian on the Origin Bacteria .
[ Jan. 30 , son* to hold good for portions of boiled " Pasteur 's solution .
" Air was even drawn through such a fluid daily for a time , and yet it continued free from Bacteria .
Evidence of this kind has already been widely accepted as justifying the conclusion that living Bacteria or their germs are either wholly absent from or , at most , only very sparingly distributed through the atmosphere .
The danger of infection from the atmosphere having thus been got rid of and shown to be delusive , I am now able to bring forward other evidence tending to show that the first Bacteria which appear in many boiled infusions ( when they subsequently undergo putrefactive changes ) are evolved de novo in the fluids themselves .
These experiments are moreover so simple , and may be so easily repeated , that the evidence which they are capable of supplying lies within the reach of all .
That boiling the experimental fluid destroys the life of any Bacteria or Baderia-germs preexisting therein is now almost universally admitted ; it may , moreover , be easily demonstrated .
If a portion of \lt ; e Pasteur 's solution " be purposely infected with living Bacteria and subsequently boiled for two or three minutes , it will continue ( if left in the same flask ) clear for an indefinite period ; whilst a similarly infected portion of the same fluid , not subsequently boiled , will rapidly become turbid .
Precisely similar phenomena occur when we operate with the neutral fluid which I have previously mentioned ; and yet M. Pasteur has ventured to assert that the germs of Bacteria are not destroyed in neutral or slightly alkaline fluids which have been merely raised to the boiling-point t. Even M. Pasteur , however , admits that the germs of Bacteria and other allied organisms are killed in slightly acid fluids which have been boiled for a few minutes ; so that there is a perfect unanimity of opinion ( amongst those best qualified to judge ) as to the destructive effects of a heat of 212 r. upon any Bacteria or rms which such fluids may contain .
Taking such a fluid , therefore , in the form of a strong filtered infusion of turnip , we may place it after ebullition in a superheated flask with the assurance that it contains no living organisms .
Having ascertained also by our previous experiments with the boiled saline fluids that there is no danger of infection by Bacteria from the atmosphere , we may leave the rather narrow mouth of the flask open , as we did in these experiments .
But when this is done , the previously clear turnip-infusion invariably eeomes turbid in one or two days ( the temperature being about 70 ' E. ) , owing to the presence of myriads of Bacteria .
u , f ^US ^ We ^wo similar flasks , one of which contains a boiled asteur s solution " and the other a boiled turnip-infusion , and if we Thirteenth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council ( 1871 ) , p. 59 .
ow unwarrantable such a conclusion appears to be , I have elsewhere endeavoured to show .
See ' Beginnings of Life , ' 1872 , vol. i. pp. 326-333 , 372-399 .
1873 .
] Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Just Intonation in .
131 place them beneath the same bell-jar , it will be found that the first fluid remains clear and free from Bacteria for an indefinite period , whilst the second invariably becomes turbid in one 01 two days .
What is the explanation of these discordant results ?
We have a right to infer that all preexisting life has been destroyed in each of the fluids* ; we have proved also that such fluids are not usually infected by Bacteria derived from the air ; in this very case , in fact , the putrescible saline fluid remains pure , although the organic infusion standing by its side rapidly putrifies .
We can only infer , therefore , that whilst the boiled saline solution is quite incapable of engendering + , such organisms are able to arise cle novo in the boiled organic infusion .
Although this inference may be legitimately drawn from such experiments as I have here referred to , fortunately it is confirmed and strengthened by the labours of many investigators who have worked under the influence of much more stringent conditions , and in which closed vessels of various kinds have been employed + .
Whilst we may therefore infer ( 1 ) that the putrefaction which occurs in many previously boiled fluids when exposed to the air is not due to a contamination by germs derived from the atmosphere , we have also the same right to conclude ( 2 ) that in many cases the first organisms which appear in such fluids have arisen de novo , rather than by any process ot reproduction from preexisting forms of life .
Admitting , therefore , that Bacteria are ferments capable ot initiating putrefactive changes , I am a firm believer also in the existence of not-livin\lt ; T ferments under the influence of which putrefactive changes may be initiated in certain fluids-changes which are almost invariably accompanied by a new birth of living particles capable of rapidly developing into Bacteria .
XX .
" On Just Intonation in Music ; with a description of a new Instrument for the easy control of all Systems of Tuning other than the ordinary equal Temperament .
" By R. H. M. Bosanquet , Fellow of St. John 's College , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor H. J. S. Smith , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
( Abstract .
) The object of this communication is to place the improved systems of * rTan 1873 1_____In The Beginnings of Life , ' vol. i. p. 332 , note 1,1 hare cited to :crrr.t.r ^ Pw l in 'Nature,.J\#171 ; nM\gt ; y9th .

