'79 Observations on the Gastric Glands of the human Stomach , and the Contraction which takes place in that Viscus .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read June 26 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 347 .
] This paper contains an account of the internal membrane of the human stomach , in reference to magnified views of the different structures composing its surface , executed by Mr. Bauer .
The oesophageal glands have the appearance of infundibular cells .
The structure upon the upper arch of the stomach is made up of cells , of the form of a honeycomb ; and this structure extends , though less visibly , over the whole surface of the cardiac portion .
In the pyloric portion the cells have the same appearance ; but there are small clusters , the sides of which rise above the surface , giving the appearance of foliated membranles .
Having formerly shown that the gastric glands are largest and most numerous in the animals that inhabit the least fertile regions of the earth , and vice versed , the author remarks the greater necessity for the same arrangements in man , whose gastric glands are so small as to require microscopic aid to prove that they appertain to the same series of structures as those of the ostrich , which may be minutely examined by the unaided eye .
Sir Everard alludes to his former discovery of the occasional division of the stomach into two portions by a muscular contraction , which he is now able further to elucidate by a case in which this contraction had become permanent , and which probably caused the death of the woman in whom it occurred .
The importance of this fact in studying the physiology of the stomach , is the only apology , says the author , which I shall make for having pressed it so much on the attention of the Society : its use in the pathology of that viscus , though perhaps of still more importance to the cause of suffering humanlity , this is not the proper place to consider .
A drawing of the contracted stomach also is annexed to this paper .

