424 Ur .
J. Murray .
" The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
" I John Murray , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Receive January 25 , \#151 ; Read February 24 , 1898 .
From a scientific point of view the advantages to be derived frc a well-equipped and well-directed expedition to the Antarctic wou at the present time , he manifold .
Every department of natm knowledge would he enriched by systematic observations as the order in which phenomena coexist and follow each other regions of the earth 's surface about which we know very little are wholly ignorant .
It is one of the great objects of science collect observations of the kind here indicated , and it may be safe said that without them we can never arrive at a right understandii of the phenomena by which we are surrounded , even in the habitat parts of the globe .
Before considering the various orders of phenomena , concernii which fuller information is urgently desired , it may be well to poi out a fundamental topographical difference between the Arctic ai Antarctic .
In the northern hemisphere there is a polar sea almc completely surrounded by continental land , and continental condition for the most part prevail .
In the southern hemisphere , on the oth hand , there is almost certainly a continent at the South Pole , whi( is completely surrounded by the ocean , and , in those latitudes , tl most simple and extended oceanic conditions on the surface of tl globe are encountered .
The Atmosphere .
One of the most remarkable features in the meteorology of tl globe is the low atmospheric pressure at all seasons in the southei hemisphere south of latitude 45 ' S. , with the accompanying stron westerly and north-westerly winds , large rain- and snow-fall , a round the South Polar regions .
The mean pressure seems to be le than 29 inches , which is much lower than in similar latitudes in tl northern hemisphere .
Some meteorologists hold that this vfc cyclonic system and low-pressure area continues south as far as pole , the more southerly parts being traversed by secondary cyclone There are , however , many indications that the extreme South o * area is occupied by a vast anticyclone , out of which winds ' towards the girdle of low pressure outside the ice-bound region , support of this view it is pointed out that Ross 's barometric o ser tions indicate a gradual rise in the pressure south or the latita 75 ' S. , and all Antarctic voyagers agree that when near t e ic The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
423 najority of the winds are from the south and south-east , and bring :lear weather with fall of temperature , while northerly winds bring hick fogs with rise of temperature .
All our knowledge of the meteorological conditions of the Antarctic is limited to a few observations during the midsummer nonths , and these indicate that the temperature of the snow-.overed Antarctic continent is even at that time much lower than liat of the surrounding sea .
The anticyclonic area at the South Pole appears therefore to be permanent , and when in winter the sea-ice is for the most part continuous and extends far to the north , the anticyelonic area has most probably a much wider extension than in summer .
This is indicated by the south-easterly winds which at times blow towards the southern point of the American continent in June and July .
All observations in high southern latitudes indicate an extremely low summer temperature .
In winter we have no direct observations .
The mean of Ross 's air temperatures south of latitude 63 ' S. was 28'74 ' F. , which is about the freezing point of sea-water , and his maximum temperature was 43'5 ' F. Both Wilkes and D'Urville observed pools of fresh water on several icebergs , and , when sailing along the ice barrier , Ross saw " gigantic icicles depending from every projecting point of its perpendicular cliffs , " * so it is probable that extensive melting sometimes takes place .
In the latitude of the Antarctic cii'cle the air is frequently at or near the point of saturation , and precipitation takes place in the form of rain , sleet , snow , or hail .
Most of the observations near the ice-covered land show , however , a much drier atmosphere , and in all probability precipitation over the Antarctic continent takes place in the form of line snow crystals , such as is recorded in the interior of Greenland .
There would appear , then , to be good reasons for believing that the region of the South Pole is covered by what may be regarded practically as a great permanent anticyclone , with a much wider extension in winter than in summer .
It is most likely that the prevailing winds blow out from the pole all the year round towards the surrounding sea , as in the case of Greenland , but , unlike Greenland , this area is probably seldom traversed by cyclonic disturbances .
But what has been stated only shows how little real knowledge we possess concerning the atmospheric conditions of high southern latitudjs .
It is certain , however , that even two years ' systematic observations within these regions would be of the utmost value for the future of meteorological science .
* floss , ' Antarctic Voyage , ' vol. 1 , p. 237 .
2 i 2 Dr. J. Murray .
Antarctic Ice .
From many points of view it would be important to learn some thing about the condition and distribution of Antarctic sea-ice during the winter months , and especially about the position and motions of tin huge table-shaped icebergs at this and other seasons of the year .
These flat-topped icebergs , with a thickness of 1200 or 1500 feet , with theii stratification and their perpendicular cliffs , which rise 150 or 20C feet above and sink 1100 or 1400 feet below the level of the sea .
form the most striking peculiarity of the Antarctic Ocean .
Their form and structure seem clearly to indicate that they were formed on an extended land surface , and have been pushed out over low-lying coasts into the sea .
Ross sailed for 300 miles along the face of a great ice-barrier from 150 to 200 feet in height , off which he obtained depths of 1800 and 2400 feet .
This was evidently the sea-front of a great creeping glacier or ice-cap just then in the condition to give birth to the table-shaped icebergs , miles in length , which have been described by every Antarctic voyager .
All Antarctic land is not , however , surrounded by such inacces-sib'e cliffs of ice , for along the seaward faces of the great mountain ranges of Victoria Land the ice and snow which descend to the sea apparently form cliffs not higher than 10 to 20 feet , and in 1895 Kris-tensen and Borchgrevinlc landed at Cape Adare on a pebbly beach , occupied by a penguin rookery , without encountering any land-ice descending to the sea .
Where a penguin rookery is situated , we may be quite sure that there is occasionally open water for a considerable portion of the year , and that consequently landing might be effected without much difficulty or delay , and further that a party , once landed , might with safety winter at such a spot , where the penguins would furnish an abundant supply of food and fuel .
A properly equipped party of observers situated at a point like this on the Antarctic continent foi ' one or two winters might carry out a most valuable series of scientific observations , make successful excursions towards the interior , and bring back valuable information as to the probable thickness of the ice-cap , its temperature at different levels , its rate of accumulation , and its motions , concerning all which points there is much difference of opinion among scientific men .
Antarctic Land .
Is there an Antarctic continent ?
It has already been stated that the form and structure of the Antarctic icebergs ind.cate that they were built up on , and had flowed over , an extended land surface , these bergs are floated to the north and broken up in warmei The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
427 udes they distribute over the floor of the ocean a large quantity of glaciated rock fragments and land detritus .
These materials were Iredged up by the " Challenger " in considerable quantity , and they how that the rocks over which the Antarctic land-ice moved vere gneisses , granites , mica-schists , quartziferous diorites , grained quartzites , sandstones , limestones , and shales .
These lithological -ypes are distinctively indicative of continental land , and there can be no doubt about their having been transported from land situated towards the South Pole .
D'Urville describes rocky islets off A.delie Land composed of granite and gneiss .
Wilkes found on an iceberg , near the same place , boulders of red sandstone and basalt .
Borchgrevink and Bull have brought back fragments of mica-schists and other continental locks from Cape Adare .
Dr. Donald brought back from Joinville Island a piece of red jasper or chert containing Radiolaria and Sponge spicules .
Captain Larsen brought from Seymour Island pieces of fossil coniferous wood , and also fossil shells of Cucullcea , Cytherea , Gyprina , , and Natica , having a close resemblance to species known to occur in lower Tertiary beds in Britain and Patagonia .
These fossil remains indicate in these areas a much warmer climate in past times .
We are thus in possession of abundant indications that there is a wide extent of continental land within the ice-bound regions of the southern hemisphere .
It is not likely that any living land-fauna will be discovered on the Antarctic continent away from the penguin rookeries .
Still , an Antarctic expedition will certainly throw much light on many geological problems .
Fossil finds in high latitudes are always of special importance .
The pieces of fossil wood from Seymour Island can hardly be the only relics of plant life that are likely to be met with in Tertiary and even older systems within the Antarctic .
Tertiary , Mesozoic , and Palaeozoic forms are tolerably well developed in the Arctic regions , and the occurrence of like forms in the Antarctic regions might be expected to suggest much as to former geographical changes , such as the extension of Antarctica towards the north , and its connexion with , or isolation from , the northern continents , and also as to former climatic changes , such as the presence in pre-Tertiary times of a uniform temperature in the waters of the ocean all over the surface of the globe .
Magnetic and Pendulum Observations , Geodetic Measurements , Tides , and Currents .
In any Antarctic expedition magnetic observations would , of course , form an essential part of the work to be undertaken , and the importance of such observations has been frequently dwelt upon by eminent physicists and navigators .
Should a party of competent 428 Dr. J. Murray .
observers be stationed at Cape Adare for two years , pendulum obser vations could be carried out there and at other points within th( Antarctic , or even on the ice-cap and icebergs .
It might be possible to measure a degree on the Antarctic continent or ice-cap , which would be a most useful thing to do .
By watching the motions oi the icebergs and ice from land at Cape Adare much would be learni about oceanic currents , and our knowledge of the tides would he increased by a systematic series of tidal observations on the shores of the Antarctic continent , where we have at present no observations .
The series of scientific observations here mentioned , and others that might be indicated , would fill up many gaps in our knowledge of the physical conditions of these high southern latitudes .
Depth of the Antarctic Ocean .
In regard to the depth of the ocean immediately surrounding the Antarctic continent we have at present very meagre information , and one of the objects of an Antarctic expedition would be to supplement our knowledge by an extensive series of sounding 's in all directions throughout the Antarctic and Southern Oceans .
It would in this way be possible , after a careful consideration of the depths and marine deposits , to trace out approximately the outlines of the Antarctic continent .
At the present time we know that Ross obtained depths of 100 to 500 fathoms all over the great hank extending to the east of Victoria Land , and somewhat similar depths have been obtained extending for some distance to the east of Joinville Island .
Wilkes sounded in depths of 500 and 800 fathoms about 20 or 30 miles off Adelie Land .
The depths found by the " Challenger " in the neighbourhood of the Antarctic circle were from 1300 to 1800 fathoms , and further north the " Challenger " soundings ranged from 1260 to 2600 fathoms .
To the south-west of South Georgia , Ross paid out 4000 fathoms of line without reaching bottom .
In the charts of depth which I have constructed I have always placed a deep sea in this position , for it appears to me that Ross , who knew very well how to take soundings , was not likely to have been mistaken in work of this kind .
The few indications which we thus possess of the depth of the ocean in this part of the world seem to show that there is a gradual shoaling of the ocean from very deep water towards the Antarctic continent , and , so far as we yet know , either from soundings or temperature observations , there are no basins cut off from genera oceanic circulation by barriers or ridges , similar to those fonn towards the Arctic .
The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
29 Deposits of the Antarctic Ocean .
The deposits which have been obtained close to the Antarctic con-nent consist of blue mud , containing glauconite , made up for the _ost part of detrital matters brought down from the land , but confining a considerable admixture of the remains of pelagic and other 'ganisms .
Further to the north there is a very pure diatom ooze , mtaining a considerable quantity of detrital matter from icebergs , nd a few pelagic foraminifera .
This deposit appears to form a zone ight round the earth in these latitudes .
Still further to the north le deposits pass in deep water , either into a Globigerina ooze , or ito a red clay with manganese nodules , sharks teeth , ear-bones of / hales , and the other materials characteristic of that deep-sea eposit .
Since these views , however , as to the distribution of deep-sea eposits throughout these high southern latitudes , are founded upon elatively few samples , it cannot be doubted that further samples rom different depths in the unexplored regions would yield most nteresting information .
Temperature of the Antarctic Ocean .
The mean daily temperature of the surface waters of the Antarctic , is recorded by itoss , to the south of latitude 63 S. in the summer months , varies from 27-3 ' to 33-6 ' , and the mean of all his observations is 29'85 ' .
As already stated , his mean for the air during the same period is somewhat low-er , being 28'74 ' .
In fact , all observations seem to show that the surface water is warmer than the air during the summer months .
The " Challenger " observations of temperature beneath the surface indicate the presence of a stratum of colder water wedged between warmer water at the surface , and warm water at the bottom .
This wedge-shaped stratum of cold water extends through about 12 ' of latitude , the thin end terminating about latitude 53 ' S. , its temperature varying from 28 ' at the southeim thick end to 32'5 ' at the northern thin end , while the temperature of the overlying water ranges from 29 ' in the south to 38 ' in the north , and that of the underlying water from 32 ' to 35 ' .
This must be regarded as the distribution of temperature only during the summer , for it is improbable that during the winter mouths there is a warmer surface layer .
In the greater depths of the Antarctic , as far south as the Antarctic circle , the temperature of the water varies between 32 ' and 35 ' F. , and is not , therefore , very different from the temperature of the deepest bottom water of the tropical regions of the ocean .
The presence of this relatively warm water in the deeper parts of the Dr. J. Murray .
Antarctic Ocean may be explained by a consideration of gener oceanic circulation .
The warm tropical waters which are drive southwards along the eastern coasts of South America , Africa , ai Australia , into the great all-encircling Southern Ocean , there becon cooled as they are driven to the east by the strong westerly wind These waters , on account of their high salinity , can suffer much dili tion with Antarctic water , and still be denser than water from the ; higher latitudes at the same temperature .
Here the density observe ?
tions and the sea-water gases indicate that the cold water found t the greater depths of the ocean probably leaves the surface an sinks towards the bottom in the Southern Ocean , between the lat tudes of 45 ' and 56 ' S. These deeper , but not necessarily botton layers are then drawn slowly northwards towards the tropics , t supply the deficiencies there produced by evaporation and soutli ward-flowing surface currents , and these deeper layers of relativel warm water appear likewise to be slowly drawn southwards to th Antarctic area to supply the place of the ice-cold currents of surfac water drifted to the north .
This warm underlying water is evident !
a potent factor in the melting and destruction of the huge table topped icebergs of the southern hemisphere .
While these views a to circulation appear to be well established , still a fuller examinatioi of these waters is most desirable at different seasons of the year with improved thermometers and sounding machines .
Indeed , al deep-sea apparatus has been so much improved as a result of th\lt ; " Challenger " explorations , that the labour of taking specific gravity and all other oceanographical observations has been very much lessened .
Pelagic Life of the Antarctic Ocean .
In the surface waters of the Antarctic there is a great abundance of diatoms and other marfine algae .
These floating banks or meadows form primarily not only the food of pelagic animals , but also the food of the abundant deep-sea life which covers the floor of the ocean in these south polar regions .
Pelagic animals , such as cope-pods , amphipods , molluscs , and other marine organisms , are also very abundant , although species are fewer than in tropical waters .
Some of these animals seem to be nearly , if not quite , identical with those found in high northern latitudes , and they have not been met with in the intervening tropical zones .
The numerous species of shelled Pteropods , Foraminifera , Coccoliths and Phabdoliths , which exist in the tropical surface waters , gradually disappear as we approach the Antarctic circle , where the shelled Pteropods are represented by a small Limacina , and the Foraminifera by only two species of Globi-gerina , which are apparently identical with those in the Arctic Ocean .
A peculiarity of the tow-net gatherings made by the " Challenger The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
431 Jxpedition in liigli southern latitudes , is the great rarity or absence f the pelagic larvfe of benthonic organisms , and in this respect they oree with similar collections from the cold waters of the Arctic 'D ms .
The absence of these larvae from polar waters may be ecounted for by the mode of development of benthonic organisms , to e referred to presently .
It must be remembei-ed that many of these elagic organisms pass most of their lives in water of a temperature elow 32 ' F. , and it would be most interesting to learn more about heir reproduction and general life-history .
Benthos Life of the Antarctic Ocean .
At present we have no information as to the shallow-water fauna f the Antarctic continent ; but , judging from what we do know of be off-lying Antarctic islands , there are relatively few species in he shallow watei 's in depths less than 25 fathoms .
On the other and , life in the deeper waters appears to be exceptionally abundant , 'he total number of species of Metazoa collected by the " Challenger " t Kerguelen in depths less than 50 fathoms was about 130 , and the umber of additional species known fx'om other sources from the hallow waters of the same island is 112 , making altogether 242 pecies .
or thirty species less than the number obtained in eight deep auls with the trawl and dredge in the Kerguelen region of the Southern Ocean , in depths exceeding 1260 fathoms , in which eight auls 272 species were obtained .
Observations in other regions of ho Great Southern Ocean , where there is a low mean annual tem-lerature , also show that the marine fauna around the land in high outhern latitudes appears to be very poor in species down to a depth f 25 fathoms , when compared with the number of species present at he mud-line about 100 fathoms , or even at depths of about 2 miles .
In the year 1841 Sir James Clark Ross dredged off the Antarctic ontinent species which he recognised as the same as he had been in he habit of taking in equally high northern latitudes , and he sug- ; sted that they might have passed from the one pole to the other by vuy of the cold water of the deep sea .
Subsequent researches show hat , as with pelagic organisms , many of the bottom-living species re identical with , or closely allied to , those of the Arctic regions , nd are not represented in the intex-mediate tropical areas .
For nstance , the most striking character of the shore-fisli fauna of the Southern Ocean is the reappearance of types inhabiting the corre-ponding latitudes of the northern hemisphere , and not found in the ntervening tropical zone .
This interruption of continuity in the iistribution of shore-fishes is exemplified by species as well as renera , and Dr. Gunther enumerates eleven species and twenty-nine jenera as illustrating this method of distribution .
432 Dr. J. Murray .
The following are the eleven species :\#151 ; monstrosa , canis , Acanthias vulgaris , Acanthiassquatina , Zet faber , Lophius piscatorius , Centriscus scolopax , Clupea sprattus , Conger vulgaris .
The genns by which the family Berycid\#174 ; is represented in tt southern temperate zone ( Trachichthys)is much more nearly allied !
the northern than to the tropical genera .
" As in the northern ten perate zone , so in the southern ... .
the variety of forms much less than between the tropics .
This is especially apparent o comparing the number of species constituting a genus .
In this zon genera composed of more than ten species are the exception , tt majority having only from one to five .
" ... .
11 Polyprion one of those extraordinary instances in which a very specialised fori occurs at almost opposite points of the globe , without having left trace of its previous existence in , or of its passage through , tt intermediate space .
" Speaking of the shore-fishes of the Antarctic Ocean , Gunther sayf " The general character of the fauna of Magelhaen 's Straits an Kerguelen 's Land is extremely similar to that of Iceland and Greer land .
As in the Arctic fauna , Chondropterygians are scarce , an represented by Acanthias vulgaris and species of Baja to Acanthopterygians , Cataphracti , and Scorpasnidae are represent as in the Arctic fauna , two of the genera ( Sebastes and Agowui being identical .
The Cofctidse are replaced by six genera of Trr chinidae , remarkably similar in form to Arctic types . . .
Gadoid fishes reappear , but are less developed ; as usual they are accompanied by Myxine .
The reappearance of so specialised a genus ; Lycodes is most remarkable."* These statements with reference to shore-fislies might , with son modifications , be repeated concerning the distribution and charactf of all classes of marine invertebrates in high northern and hig southern latitudes.1 !
The " Challenger " researches show that near * Gunther , ' Study of Fishes , ' pp. 282-290 .
Edinburgh .
1880 .
f Ortmann , speaking of the Decapod Crustacea , says : " Nach dem StaW unserer ietzigen Kenntniss ist Iceine einzige hi polar e Art ( Ortman \lt ; Zoolomsche Jahrbiicher , ' Abth .
f. Syst. , \amp ; c. , Bd .
ix , p. 585 , 1896 ) .
Hendersc in his report on the " Challenger " Ancmura , in describing Lithodes fr the Kerguelen region , says it " is apparently most closely allied to Rhodes ( from the North Atlantic ) , " but the latter species is of large size , and the spm on the carapace are more numerous and more uniformly equal m size ( son , ' Zool. Chall .
Exp. , ' pt .
69 , p. 44 ) .
Henderson writes me that these very s g differences were the only ones he could detect , and it seems evident that tod * two specimen , been taken from the same haul of the trawl , or from tl^ locality , they would never have been erected into two dt.tact specie , .
Header write , me further that throughout the entire range of Crustacea illustration of bipolarity than that furnished by the Ltthodtd* .
For tn.t.nc The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
433 0 species taken in high southern latitudes occur also in the .rthern hemisphere , but are not recorded from the tropical zone , fty-four species of sea-weed shave also been recorded as showing similar distribution.* Bipolarity in the distribution of marine ganisms is a fact , however much naturalists may differ as to its i tent and the way in which it has originated .
All those animals which secrete large quantities of carbonate of no greatly predominate in the tropics , such as Corals , Decapod .ustacea , Lamellibranchs , and Gasteropods .
On the other hand , ose animals in which there is a feeble development of carbonate of no structures predominate in cold polar waters , such as Hydroida , olothurioidea , Annelida , Amphipoda , Isopoda , and Tunicata .
This fference is in direct relation with the temperature of the water in tiich these organisms live , a much more rapid and abundant pre-pitate of carbonate of lime being thrown down in warm than in \gt ; ld water by ammonium carbonate , one of the waste products of \#166 ; ganic activity .
In the Southern and Sub-antarctic Ocean a large proportion of the chinoderms develop their young after a fashion which precludes le possibility of a pelagic larval stage .
The young are reared ithin or upon the body of the parent , and have a kind of com-ensal connection with her till they are large enough to take ire of themselves .
A similar method of direct development has jen observed in eight or nine species of Echinoderms from the )ld waters of the northern hemisphere .
On the other hand , in .mperate and tropical regions the development of a free-swimming rva is so entirely the rule that it is usually described as the normal abit of the Echinodermata .
This similarity in the mode of develop-ient between Arctic and Antarctic Echinoderms ( and the contrast ) what takes place in the tropics ) holds good also in other classes E Invertebrates , and probably accounts for the absence of free-wimming larvae of benthonic animals in the surface gatherings in retie and Antarctic waters .
What is urgently required with reference to the biological roblems here indicated is a fuller knowledge of the facts , and it annot be doubted that an Antarctic expedition would bring back ollections and observations of the greatest interest to all naturalists nd physiologists , and without such information it is impossible to iscuss with success the present distribution of organisms over the urface of the globe , or to form a true conception of the antecedent onditions by which that distribution has been brought about .
ew species being made from purely geographical considerations , see 'Summary of Results , " Challenger " Expedition , ' p. 1440-45 .
* Murray and Barton , ' Phycological Memoirs of the British Museum , ' part iii .
London .
1895 .
The Duke of Argyll .
Concluding Remarks .
There are many directions in which an Antarctic Expedition won carry out important observations besides those already touched \lt ; in the foregoing statement .
From the purely exploratory point view much might be urged in favour of an Antarctic Expedition ; an early date ; for the further progress of scientific geography it essential to have a more exact knowledge of the topography of tl Antarctic regions .
This would enable a more just conception of tl volume relations of land and sea to be formed , and in connexic with pendulum observations some hints as to the density of thesul oceanic crust and the depth of ice and snow on the Antarct continent might be obtained .
In case the above sketch ma possibly have created the impression that we really know a gra deal about the Antarctic regions , it is necessary to re-state that a the general conclusions that have been indicated are largely hypo thetical , and to again urge the necessity for a wider and more soli base for generalisations .
The results of a successful Antarct ] Expedition would mark a great advance in the philosophy\#151 ; apai from the mere facts\#151 ; of terrestrial science .
No thinking person doubts that the Antarctic will be explore !
The only questions are : when ?
and by whom P I should like to se the work undertaken at once , and by the British Navy .
I shoul like to see a sum of \#163 ; 150,000 inserted in the Estimates for tli purpose .
The Government may have sufficient grounds for declinin to send forth such an expedition at the present time , but that is n reason why the scientific men of the country should not urge tba the exploration of the Antarctic would lead to important addition to knowledge , and that , in the interests of science among Englis speaking peoples , the United Kingdom should take not only a large but a leading part in any such exploration .
Remarks by the Duke of Argyll .
Scientific men generally feel , I think , that they do not need to gN detailed reasons in connexion with particular subjects of inquiry , t\lt ; justify their unanimous desire for an Antarctic Expedition .
It 1 enough , surely , for them to point out the fact that a very laige of the surface of our small planet is still almost unknown to n That it should be so seems almost a reproach to our civilisation .
' to detailed reasons , it may almost be said with truth that there ij hardly one of the physical sciences on which important light may n0 The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
435 beast by Antarctic exploration .
Oceanic circulation ; meteorology ; gnetism ; distribution of animal and vegetable life , not only in t present but in the past ; geology ; mineralogy ; volcanic action iler special conditions\#151 ; all of these are subjects on which the \ enomena of the Antarctic regions are sure to bear directly , f , however , I am asked to specify more particularly the question 0 which I look for invaluable evidence which can be got nowhere e , I must name , above all others , the most difficult questions .
rolved in quaternary geology .
Geologists are nearly all agreed tit there has been , very recently , a glacial age\#151 ; an age in which ; icial conditions prevailed over the whole northern hemisphere to .
much lower latitude than they prevail now .
But geologists fer widely and fundamentally from each other as to the form uich glacial agencies took during that period .
In particular , many ^ologists believe in what they call an " ice sheet"\#151 ; that is to say , t the northern world having been covered by an enormous mass of u several thousand feet thick , which , as they assert , " flowed " over mntain areas as well as over plains , and filled up the bed of seas a considerable depth .
Other geologists disbelieve in this agency ogether .
They deny that even if such a body of ice ever existed , 1 could possibly have moved in the way which the theory assumes , ley affirm , also , that the facts connected with glaciated surfaces i not indicate the planing down by one universal sheet of ormous weight and pressure ; but , on the contrary , the action or tall and lighter bodies of ice , which have acted partially and un-ually on different surfaces differently exposed .
We might have hoped that this controversy could be settled by te facts connected with the only enormous ice-sheet which exists ) the Northern Hemisphere , viz. , that which covers the great content of Greenland .
But that ice-sheet , enormous though it be , \lt ; es certainly not do what the ice-sheet of the Glacial Age is sup-ised to have done .
That is to say , it does not flow out from oeenland , fill the adjacent seas , or override the opposite coasts , en in so narrow a strait as Smith 's Sound .
But this evidence is igative only .
In the Antarctic continent we have reason to believe at there is a larger ice-sheet , and it certainly does protrude into ie adjacent seas , not merely by sending out vast floating fragments , but in unbroken ice cliffs of great height .
Now we want to tow exactly under what conditions this protrusion takes place , if .
Murray speaks of it as " creeping " seawards\#151 ; a more cautious ord than " flowing .
" But is it certain that it does even creep p ay it not simply grow by accretion or aggregation till it reaches a *pth of water so great as to break it off by floatation P Hoes it , or .es it not , carry detritus when no detritus has been dropped on its :rface ?
Or does it pick up detritus from its own bed P Or does Sir J. D. Hooker .
it push foreign matter before it p Is the perfectly tabular f0 of the Antarctic icebergs compatible with any differential movemr in the parent mass at all ; or does it not indicate , on the contrary condition of immobility nntil their buoyancy lifts great fragme off ?
What is the condition of the rocks on which they rest ?
there any thrust upon the mass from the mountain ranges on whi the gathering ground lies ?
Or is the whole country one vast gath ing ground from the continual excess of precipitation over m el tin These questions , and a hundred others , have to be solved Antarctic discovery ; and until they are solved we cannot arc with security on the geological history of our own now temper regions .
The Antarctic continent is unquestionably the region the earth in which glacial conditions are at their maximum , a therefore it is the region in which we must look for all the inforn ation attainable towards , perhaps , the most difficult problem w which geological science has to deal .
Remarks by Sir D. Hooker .
Dr. Murray 's admirable summary of the scientific informati obtainable by an organised exploration of the Antarctic regie leaves nothing further to be said under that head .
I can or record the satisfaction with which I heard it , and my earnest he that it will lead to action being taken by the Government in t direction indicated .
Next to a consideration of the number and complexity of t objects to be attained by an Antarctic expedition , what dwells m( in my imagination is the vast area of the unknown region which is be the field for investigation\#151 ; a region which in its full extensi reaches from the latitude of 60 ' S. to the Southern Pole , and e : braces every degree of longitude .
This is a very consideral portion of the surface of the globe , and it is one that has been cc sidered to be for the most part inaccessible to man .
I will therefc ask you to accompany the scientific explorer no further than to t threshold of the scenes of his labours , that you may see how so and how urgently he is called upon to study some of those hither unsolved Antarctic problems that he will there encounter .
In latitude 60 ' S. an open ocean girdles the globe without bre of continuity .
Proceeding southwards in it , probably before reac ing the Artarctic circle , he encounters the floating ice fields win form a circumpolar girdle , known as " the Pack , " approximately co centric with the oceanic , interrupted in one meridian only , th south of Cape Horn , by the northern prolongation of Grahan Land .
Pursuing his southward course in search of seas or Ia\#187 ; beyond , after the novelty of his position in the pack has worn oft , The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
437 iks where and how the components of these great fields of ice had ieir origin , how they arrived at and maintain their present position , hat are their rate of progress and courses , and what their influence a the surrounding atmosphere and ocean .
I believe I am right in linking that to none of these questions can a fuller answer be given lan that they originated over extensive areas of open water in a igher latitude than they now occupy , that they are formed of frozen cean water and snow , and that winds and currents have brought lem to where we now find them .
But of the position of the southern pen waters , with the exception of the comparatively small area east f Victoria Land , * we know nothing , nor do we know anything of the dative amount of snow and ice of which they are composed , or of heir age , or of the winds and currents that have carried them to a iwer latitude .
The other great glacial feature of the Antarctic area is " the Carrier , " which Ross traced for 300 miles , in the 78th and 79th egrees of S. latitude , maintaining throughout the character of an ?
accessible precipitous ice-cliff ( the sea-front of a gigantic glacier ) f 150\#151 ; 200 feet in height .
This stupendous glacier is no doubt one iarent of the huge table-topped ice-islands that infest the higher ititudes of the Southern Ocean ; but , as in the case of the pack ice , ve do not know where the barrier has its origin , or anything further bout it , than that it in great part rests on the bottom of a compara-ively shallow ocean .
It probably abuts upon land , possibly upon an Antarctic continent ; but to prove this was impossible on the occa-ion of Ross 's visit , for the height of the crow 's nest above the surface \#187 ; f the sea was not sufficient to enable him to overlook the upper urface of the ice , nor do I see any other way of settling this im-lortant point except by the use of a captive.baUoon\#151 ; an appliance with which I hope any future expedition to the Antarctic regions will be supplied .
There were several occasions on which such an mplement might have been advantageously used by Ross when he vas coasting along the barrier ; and there were more when it would jave greatly facilitated his navigation in the Pack .
I have chosen the subject of the Antarctic ice as the theme for my icknowledgment of the honour you have done me in asking me to tddress this most important meeting , not only because it is one of he very first of the phenomena that demand the study of the explorer , but because it is the dominant feature in Antarctic navigation , where the ice is ever present , demanding , whether for being * I refer to the " pancake " ice , which in that area on several occasions formed with great rapidity around Ross 's ships , lat. 76 ' to 78 ' 8 .
, in February , 1842 , and which arrested their progress .
Such ice , augmented by further freezing of the water and by snow , may be regarded as the genesis of fields that , when broken up oy gales , are carried to the north and contribute to the circumpolar pack .
438 Dr. G. Nemnayer .
penetrated or evaded , all the commander 's fortitude and skill and a his crew 's endurance .
It may he expected that I should allude to those sections of D Murray 's summary that refer to the Antarctic fauna and flora .
Tin are most important , for the South Polar Ocean swarms with anim and vegetable life .
Large collections of these , taken both by tl tow-net and by deep sea soundings , were made by Sir J. Ross , wl was an ardent naturalist , and threw away no opportunity of obser ing and preserving ; but unfortunately , with the exception of tl Diatomacece ( which were investigated by Ehrenberg ) , very few of tl results of his labour in this direction have been published .
A betti fate , I trust , awaits the treasures that the hoped-for expedition wi bring back , for so prolific is that ocean that the naturalist need nevt be idle , no , not even for one of the twenty-four hours of dayligl during a whole Antarctic summer , and I look to the results of comparison of the oceanic life of the Arctic and Antarctic regions i the heralding of an epoch in the history of biology .
Itemarlcs by Dr With great pleasure I accepted the invitation to attend a discus sion meeting on the importance , for the advancement of every branc of science , of a scientific exploration of the Antarctic region .
R\lt ; gardless of the season and my advanced age , I hastened here to spea in the presence of so high a forum as the Royal Society of Londoi on the necessity of despatching as soon as possible an expeditio towards the South Pole\#151 ; an expedition cannot be dispensed with i we seriously desire the advancement of nearly every branch of huma knowledge .
It is fifty-five years ago since one of the greatest Arcti and Antarctic explorers ceased his work , so exceedingly well executec in the Antarctic regions , and , since that time , it has never bee : taken up in any way comparable with that glorious scientific am nautical spirit manifested by Sir James Clark Ross .
It is m vie* of this fact that we all look to the British nation as the one destine* to carry on the exploration of the South Polar regions , and t. assist this object as much as lay in my power , and to do homag .
to the memory of Ross , I could not fail to appear at this meeting .
It is indeed a matter of great interest to examine the reason why s long a time has been allowed to elapse since the first great success* in the middle of this century .
Undoubtedly political quest have interfered in an unusual manner so to retard progress 111 arctic inquiry , but it is not that alone ; the cause is mairdy th^ thorough understanding of the importance of : Antarctic re\gt ; ^ requires an unusual amount of knowledge and no \#163 ; 6 of science only , but in the whole complex of natural philosophy The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
439 tural science .
The positive advantages to be derived from a newal of Antarctic exploration appear but few at first glance , and n only be detected by a far-sighted man .
The Royal Geographical iciety has taken np the agitation for that renewal .
The Sixth Inter-tional Geographical Congress , two and a half years ago , devoted ; influential exertions to the recommendation of it to the Govern-ent , not only of this country , but , indeed , of all civilised countries , ut now that the Royal Society has taken the matter up ( an \#166 ; ample which will be followed , I am convinced , by other academies science ) , final success may be looked upon as matter of certainty .
However much as has been done already to urge the importance the scientific investigation of the South Polar regions , from as any points of view as there are branches of science cultivated ' mankind , I consider it my duty , as a representative of geo-lysical science , to add all the arguments in my power to those ought forward on the part of geologists , zoologists , botanists , and hers .
A gravitation survey in connection with a thorough geographical ploration of the Antarctic , is one of the most urgent requirements the science of our earth .
There are no measurements of the avitation constant within the Antarctic region , indeed they are ry scarce in the southern hemisphere south of 30 ' south latitude , ich measurements are so closely connected with the theory of the pire of our earth , that it may well be asked how it can be con-dered possible to achieve any advance in this respect , to arrive any conclusive results in this all-important fundamental matter , ithont observations within the Antarctic region .
It is impossible foretell what effect an exact gravitation survey in that region might ert upon our views with regard to all physical and terrestrial nstants , which depend on the radius of our earth .
Apart from at consideration , we may hope for another important enlargement our knowledge bearing upon the connection between terrestrial agnetism and gravity .
Gravity observations have been so much rnplified of late by von Sterneck 's ingenious appai'atus , that there is ) serious difficulty in so multiplying gravity determinations within e Antarctic region , that we shall be quite justified in speaking of a gravitation survey .
" The all-important question of the distribu-on of land within the South Polar region is closely connected with , and our leading authority on geodesy , Professor Helmert , justly is great stress upon the observation of the force of gravity south 60 ' south latitude .
He induced the International Geodetic ermanent Commission to express it as their conviction that a ravitation survey within that region would be of the greatest benefit r higher geodetic theory ( October , 1895 ) .
I have already alluded to the probable connection between gravity VOL. LXII .
2 K 440 Dr. G. Nenmayer .
and terrestrial magnetism .
But apart from that , a magnetic surve of the Antarctic region is of the greatest importance from otht points of view .
As , since the time of Boss , no fresh observations o the values of the magnetic elements have been made , we are entire ) ignorant of the values of the secular variation south of \#163 ; 0 ' latitnd .
data so much needed for the construction of reliable magnetic chart Of the situation of the southern magnetic pole , and of its motion during the last fifty years , we are equally ignorant .
The situatio of the southern extremity of the earth 's magnetic axis and its motion throughout half a century are extremely important accordirg t Gauss 's theoretical deductions .
All computations , however intr cate , must prove incomplete , and inadequately reward the immeiu amount of labour bestowed upon them , unless reliable values of th magnetic elements are first obtained , for which purpose a reduc tion to a certain epoch by means of secular changes is indispensable But not merely for theoretical purposes is such value to be put upon the knowdedge of the magnetic character in the Antarctic , but als for the construction of reliable magnetic charts for use in navigf .
tion .
Certainly the studies of Carlheim-Gyllerskjold and Va Bemmelen deserve great credit from a theoretical point of viev but they also cannot be carried to perfection unless we have a soun knowledge of the magnetic character of the South Polar region -at least as sound as that of the North Polar region .
In the tim of Boss , the magnetic Observatory at Hobart served as a sat basis for observations on terrestrial magnetism , and now the excel lent Observatory at Melbourne may be turned to a similar account .
Well as the mathematical theory of terrestrial magnetism ha been developed , of the physical theory of that mysterious natura force , we are as yet in perfect ignorance .
This defect is certain !
to some considerable degree caused by the deficiency of cur know ledge in higher latitudes .
It looks as if the magnetic character c the South Polar region were such as would afford every facility fo a sound investigation when brought into ccmparison with th magnetic conditions of the North Polar region .
A glance at th map shows how entirely different is the distribution of the magneti force ( action ) in the two polar regions .
In the south there is to b noticed the interesting fact that the two foci of total intensity a ?
1 both situated on the side towards the south of the Australia !
continent , and nearly on the same meridian .
The magnetic action which makes itself manifest by magnet# storms or disturbances reaches its highest degree likewise south a the Australian continent , whereas to the south of South Amerxc .
these disturbances become very scarce and of a character m P'lll !
of magnitude similar to those of the temperate zones .
This waj most strikingly proved by the observations m Orange Bay an v y f \ ; *v .
\#166 ; ' ' .
The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic .
441 Duth Georgia during the period of International Observations in 382-83 .
Of course , the magnetic South Pole and the situation of te foci above mentioned are in close connection with these facts , it the reason for this distribution remains unexplained .
In ^reement with this is the relative frequency of the South Polar ghts within one and the same epoch .
The map here shows the ' isults of a discussion of all observations on southern lights , and , ?
may be pei'ceived at a glance , the conformity with the fact just Lentioned with regard to the region of maximum disturbance is riking .
It may bo mentioned , also , that a discussion of the mag-3tic state of onr earth for the epoch 1885 has yielded a curious ict ( perhaps merely a coincidence ) , namely , that Dr. Schmidt , of otha , has calculated that part of the magnetic action of our earth hich lies outside it , above the earth 's atmosphere probably , and has " rived at the conclusion that this part amounts to about l/ 50th art of the entire potential .
The curves which he constructed , ased on this calculation , show likewise a close coincidence with le frequency of the southern lights .
This requires to be further ivestigated , for it is perhaps a mere coincidence .
The question f atmospheric electricity , yet under the shadow of a hypothesis of tore or less probability , may yield , in connection with the matters , )uched upon , some results more definite than science has hitherto even able to divine .
Under all these circumstances we perceive that rear are a number of problems yet to be solved , which must stimu-ite the scientific world to enter upon a close and conscientious xamination of a region still enveloped in total darkness .
The necessity of climatological researches within the Antarctic egion has already been so much urged that it does not appear ecessary for me to enter upon the matter .
' That it must remain npossible to arrive at exact climatological constants , so long as ur o not know the winter temperature in that large area round the outh Pole and bounded by the South Polar circle , is evident to very one conversant with the subject and does not require any nrther illustration .
With regard to atmospheric pressure there is another curious , act which requires investigation , only to be carried on by observa-ions within the Antarctic .
The excess of barometric pressure in 35 ' atitude over that in 60 ' latitude amounts in the northern hemi-phere to 19-0 mm. and in the southern hemisphere to only 3 " mm. lere is another problem worthy of examination .
; With the recital of these few facts , which suffice to prompt us to nstitute a vigorous examination of the South Polar regions the eries is far from being exhausted .
There is the question of the jeoid-deformation , the phenomena of the tides , the structure of the ce and its drifting , especially the interesting fact of the appearance 2 k 2 Sir C. Markham .
of ice in lower southern latitudes , where it has never been observe since observations thereon are recorded .
The resolution of the Sixth International Congress of Geographei assembled here in August , 1895 , according to which the prese century ought not to be allowed to expire without the unveiling of tl mysteries of the South Polar regions , ought to be carried into exect tion by sending out an expedition to that end .
All scientific instit tions and societies have a well founded interest that such expeditic should take place without further delay .
Remarks by Sir Clements Markham .
I need scarcely say how fully I concur in every word that In fallen from Dr. Murray on the subject of the scientific results , are more especially of the geographical results of an Antarctic Exp dition .
It is quite sufficient to point out the vast extent of tl unknown area , and that no area of like extent on the surface of tl earth ever failed to yield results of practical as well as of pure !
scientific value by its exploration .
But there is much more to be said in the present instance , because the little that we do know of the Antarctic regions points unmis takably to the very great importance and interest of the result that are certain to attend further research .
The ice barrier di ; covered by Sir .lames Ross is known to be the source of the immenif ice islands of the Southern Polar Sea .
But it has only been seen fc a distance of 300 miles .
It requires far more complete examinatio before any approach to an adequate knowledge can be obtain respecting the extent and nature of the supposed ice cap in its rear We know that the Southern Continent is a region of actue volcanic activity , but the extent , nature , and effects of that activit remain to be ascertained .
On the Antarctic Circle land has bee sighted at numerous points , but it is unknown whether what ha been seen indicates small islands or a continuous coast line .
Dr. Murray has pointed out that the whole Southern Continent i certainly not bounded by such an ice wall as was seen by Sir Jame Ross , and is not covered by an ice cap. But the extent of the ic cap and of the uncovered land is unknown .
We are ignorant of th distribution of land and sea , and of ice and water in summer , and o the causes which influence such distribution .
' The investigation of each one of these points , and of many others will lead to further discoveries as yet undreamt of , which must need : be of the deepest interest to geographers .
There are eminent scientific men present who will no doubt refer to the results oi exploration in other branches of science .
Combined together tbej make the exploration of the Antarctic regions the greatest and most important work that remains to be achieved by this generation .
'llie Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
443 Remarks by Dr. Alexander Buchan .
Dr. Alexander Buchan stated that his remarks would have exclusive eference to the first two paragraphs of Dr. Murray 's address , under iae heading of " The Atmosphere , " but more immediately to the elation between mean atmospheric pressure and prevailing winds , le supposed he had been asked to speak on this occasion from the xtensive and minute knowledge of the subject he had necessarily cquired in the preparation of the reports on atmospheric and ceanic circulation which were published as tw'o of the reports of the cientific results of the voyage of H.M.S. " Challenger .
" The former of these reports on atmospheric circulation , is accorn-.anied by twenty-six maps showing , by isobars for each month and he year , the mean pressure of the atmosphere and by arrows the revailing winds of the globe , on hypsobathymetric maps , or maps howing by shadings the height of the land and the depth of the sea ; irst , on Call 's projection , and second , on north circumpolar maps on qual surface projection .
The isobars are drawn from mean pres-ures calculated for 1366 places , and the winds from even a larger tumber of places distributed as well as possible over the globe .
It nay also be noted that the figures showing the averages of pressure nd prevailing winds are published with the report , accompani-nents to maps of mean atmospheric pressure and prevailing winds \gt ; f the globe not yet attempted by any other writer who has pub-ished such maps .
This , then , is the work undertaken and published in these reports , vliicli occupied seven years in preparing as time could be spared rom official duties .
The result of the charting of the pressure and )revailing winds is this : Stand with your bac^ to the wind , then the ientre of lowest pressure that causes the wind is to the left in the 10rthem hemisphere and to the right hand in the southern hemisphere , a relation well known as Buys Ballot 's law .
In charting the L3G6 pressures and the relative prevailing winds no exception was bund in any of the two hemispheres .
This is one of the broadest generalisations science can point to , so far as regards what takes alace in the free atmosphere .
Some years ago a theory of atmospheric circulation was published oy the late Professor Ferrel , which , as it is not accordant with the broad results arrived at in the report on atmospheric circulation in the " Challenger " reports , calls for serious consideration on account if its bearing on any attempt proposed to be undertaken , for the exploration of the Antarctic regions .
One of the more recent expositors of this theory is Professor Davis , of Harvard College , who , in his ' Elementary Meteorology , ' Boston , U.S.A. , 1894 , gives an admirable exposition of the results Dr A. Buchan .
now arrived at by the various workers in meteorology , and of th opinions and theories promulgated by different meteorologists h different departments of the science .
The book is largely used h secondary schools and colleges of the United States , and the view there stated are widely held in America and are spreading into othe countries .
- The following extracts from Davis 's book fairly represent thesi views:\#151 ; 1 The surface winds of the temperate latitudes , and the high leve currents above them , sidling swiftly along on their steep polewarc gradients , must all be considered together .
They combine to form i vast aerial vortex or eddy around the pole .
In the northern hemi Sphere this great eddy is much interrupted by continental higl pressure in winter or low pressure in summer , and by obstructior from mountain ranges , as well as by irregular disturbances of th( general circulation in the form of storms " ( p. 110 ) .
Now the facts of observation do not support the theory of the existence at any season of the year , of a low barometric pressure , oi an eddy of winds , round or in the neighbouring regions of the North Pole .
Observations show us no prevailing winds blowing homewards to the region of the North Pole at any time of the year .
No low barometric pressure occupies the immediate polar region in any month ; but instead the opposite holds good for the four months from April to July .
In April and May the mean atmospheric pressure is higher in the region of the Pole than it is anywhere in the northern hemisphere north of 43 ' lat. N. ; and in June and July fdso higher than it is anywhere north of 55 ' lat. N. Now the higher pressure in these four months necessitates the existence of upper currents in order to maintain this high pressure about the North Pole .
These upper currents towards the pole are exactly opposed to the requirements of the theory that the upper currents in the region of the Pole must necessarily blow not towards but from the Pole . .
The actual centre , in this hemisphere , north of the tropic towards which the winds on or near the surface of the earth blow , is not the North Pole ; but in the winter months the low barometric depressions in the north of the Atlantic and Pacific respectively , and in the summer months the low barometric depressions in the Eurasian and North American continents ; and the sources out of why the prevailing winds blow in the winter months , the high-pressure regions in Siberia and North America ; and in the summer months the high-pressure regions lying northward of these continents , which , as already explained , are virtually the polar region itse t These are the facts in all regions where the winds , according the theory , become winds blowing over the earth 's surface .
The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
445 As regards the southern hemisphere , Professor Davis states that : " In the southern hemisphere the circumpolar eddy is much more ymmetrically developed .
" Again , " the high pressure that should esult from the low polar temperatures is therefore reversed into ow pressure by the excessive equatorward centrifugal force of the ; reac circumpolar whirl ; and the air thus held away from the polar .egions is seen in the tropical belts of high pressure " ( pp. 110 , 111)The meaning of this is that the remarkable low-pressure region if the southern hemisphere is continued southward to the South i'ole itself , the pressure diminishing all the way ; and that in the .egion of the South Pole the air currents poured thitherwards along lie surface of the earth ascend and thence proceed northwards as xpper currents of such enormous intensity and volume that they )ile up in the tropical region of the southern hemisphere a mean sea-level atmospheric pressure about an inch and a half higher than lie sea-level pressure near the South Pole whence it has started .
Now , to bring the matter to the business which this meeting of die Royal Society has in hand\#151 ; if this theory were true and supported by the facts of observation\#151 ; it is plain that no meteorologist could signify his approval of any scheme that could be proposed for exploring the Antarctic regions , it being obvious that these strong west-north-westerly winds , if they blow vertically round and in upon the pole , heavily laden , as they necessarily would be , with the aqueous vapour they have licked up from the Southern Ocean , would overspread Antarctica with a climate of all but continuous rains , sleet , and snow which no explorer , however intrepid and enthusiastic , could possibly face .
But is this the state of things P Let it be at once conceded that , as far south as about 55 ' lat. S. , the prevailing winds and the steadily diminishing mean pressures on advancing southward , fairly well support the theory .
South of this , however , southerly and south-easterly winds begin to increase in frequency , until from 60 ' lat. S. into higher latitudes , they become the prevailing winds .
This is abundantly shown from the winds charted on the maps of the " Challenger " Report , as well as from the unanimous experience of all that have navigated this region from Ross to the present time .
Thus the poleward blowing winds from west-north-west in these summer months stop short , distant at least 30 ' of latitude from the South Pole .
These prevailing south-easterly winds necessarily imply , as has been shown in the analogous case of the North Pole , the existence of a more or less pronounced anticyclone overspreading Antarctica ; which in its turn necessarily implies the existence of upper currents from the northward , blowing towards and in upon the polar region to make good the drain caused by the surface out-blowing southSir A. Geikie .
easterly winds .
It may , therefore , be concluded that both tb surface winds and the upper aerial currents are diametrically oppose to the requirements of this theory .
What is now urgently called for is a well-equipped Antarcti Expedition to make observations which will enable meteorologists t settle definitely the distribution of atmospheric pressure and th prevailing winds of this great region .
Were this done , the positio in the Southern Ocean of the great ring of lowest pressure that eu circles the globe could be mapped out ; and since it is toward such a low-pi-essure ring that the wind-driven surface currents c the ocean flow , a contribution would thereby be made to ocean ography , of an importance that cannot be overestimated , particular ] as regards the great question of oceanic circulation .
Remarks by Sir A. Geikie .
Hardly anything is yet known of the geology of the Antarcti regions .
By far the most important contributions to our knowledge of the Subject were made by the expedition under Sir James Ross But as he was unable to winter with his ships in the higher latitudes and could only here and there with difficulty effect a landing on tin coast , most of the geological information brought home by him wai gathered at a greater or less distance from the land with the aid o the telescope .
Within the last few years several sealing vessel have brought home some additional scraps of intelligence which onlj increase the desire for fuller knowledge .
As regards the land , merely its edges have here and there beer seen .
Whether it is one great , continent , or a succession of island ; and archipelagos , may possibly never be ascertained .
We know that in Victoria Land it terminates in a magnificent mountain rang* with peaks from 10,000 to 15,000 feet high ; but that elsewhere it is probably comparatively low , shedding its ice-cap in one vast sheei into the sea .
The rocks that constitute the land are still practically unknown The dredgings of the " Challenger " Expedition brought up pieces of granite , gneiss , and other continental rocks , and detritus of these materials was observed to increase on the sea-floor southwards in the direction of the Antarctic land .
More recently several sealing vessels have brought home from the islets of Graham Land , to the south of the South Shetlands , pieces of different varieties of granite , together with some volcanic rocks and fossiliferous limestones- o far as these rocks have been studied , they do not appeal to differ from similar rocks all over the globe .
The granites have been foun by Mr. Teall to be just such masses as might have come from any old mountain-group in Europe or America .
Among the specimens sent to me by Captain Robertson , of the The Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
447 'Active , " from Joinville and Dundee Islands , which , form the nortli-.astern termination of Graham Land , there was one piece of red-fish jasper which at once attracted my attention from its resem-jlance to the " radiolarian cherts " now found to be so widely listributed among the older Palaeozoic rocks , both in the Old World and in the New .
On closer examination , this first impression was eonhrmed ; and a subsequent microscopic study of thin slices of the stone by Dr. Hind proved the undoubted presence of abundant eadiolaria .
The specimen was a loose pebble picked up on the beach of Joinville Island .
We have no means of telling where it came from or what is its geological age .
But its close resemblance to the cadiolarian cherts , so persistent in the Lower Silurian formations of the United Kingdom , raises the question whether there are not present in the Antarctic regions rocks of older Palaeozoic age .
It would be of the utmost interest to discover such rocks situ , and to ascertain how far their fossils agree with those found in deposits of similar antiquity in lower latitudes ; or whether , as far back as early Palaeozoic time , any difference in climate had begun to show itself between the polar and other regions of the earth 's surface .
Among the specimens brought home by Dr. Donald and Captain Larsen from Seymour Island in the same district are a few containing some half dozen species of fossil shells , which have been named and described by Messrs. Sharman and Newton , who suggest that they point to the existence of Lower Tertiary rocks , one of the organisms resembling a form found in the older Tertiary formations of Patagonia .
Large , well-developed shells of and undoubtedly indicate the former existence of a far milder climate in these Antarctic seas than now prevails .
If a chance landing for a few hours on a bare islet could give us these interesting glimpses into the geological past of the south polar regions , what would not be gained by a more leisurely and well planned expedition ?
But , perhaps , the geological domain that would be most sure to gain largely from such exploration would be that which embraces the wide and fascinating field of volcanic action .
In the splendid harvest of l'esults brought home by Sir James Ross , one of the most thrilling features was the discovery of a volcano rising amid the universal snows to a height of more than 12,000 feet , and actively discharging " flame and smoke , " while other lofty cones near it indicated that they too had once been in vigorous eruption .
Ross landed on one or two islands near that coast and brought aw'ay some pieces of volcanic rocks.* If we glance at a terrestrial globe we can readily see that the * His collections are in the British Museum , hut they have never been petro-graphieally studied .
Sir A. Gelide .
volcanic ring or " circle of fire , " which nearly surrounds the tasi basin of the Pacific Ocean , stretches southwards into New Zealand The few observations that have been made in the scattered islands further south show that the Auckland , Campbell , and Macquarrh groups consist of , or at least include , materials of volcanic origin Still further south , along the same general line , Mr. Borchgrevinls has recently ( 1894-95 ) made known the extension of Ross 's volcanic region of Mount Erebus northwards to Cape Adare , the northern promontory of Victoria Land .
He noticed there the apparent intercalation of lava and ice , while bare snowless peaks seemed stilt further to point to the continued activity of the volcanic fires Some specimens , brought by Captain Jenssen , from Possession Island were found by Mr. Teall to be highly vesicular hornblende-basalt ; while one from Cape Adare was a nepheline-tephrite .
This region is probably one of the most interesting volcanic tracts on the face of the globe .
Yet we can hardly be said to know more of it than its mere existence .
The deeply interesting problems which it suggests cannot be worked out by transitory voyagers .
They must be attacked by observers stationed on the spot .
Ross thought that a winter station might be established near the foot of Mount Erebus , and that the interior could easily be traversed from there to the magnetic pole .
But it is not merely in Victoria Land that Antarctic volcanoes may be studied .
Looking again at the globe , we observe that the American volcanic band is prolonged in a north and south line down the western side of the southern continent .
That it has been continued into the chain of the South Shetlands and Graham Land is proved by the occurrence there of old sheets of basalt , rising in terraces over each other , sometimes to a height of more than 7,000 feet above the sea .
These denuded lavas may be as old as those of our Western Isles , Faroe , Iceland , and Greenland .
But that volcanic activity is not extinct there has recently been found by Captain Larsen , who came upon a group of small volcanoes f'1QJ ing islets along the eastern coast line of Graham Land .
It is tantalising to know no more about them .
Another geological field where much fresh and impoi tant in or mation might be obtained by Antarctic exploration is that of ice and ice action .
Our northern hemisphere was once enveloped m snow and ice , yet although for more than half a century geologis have been studying the traces of the operations of this ice covering , they are still far from having cleared up all the difficulties of the study .
The Antarctic ice-cap is the largest in the world I behaviour could probably be watched al'nJT i-oany pa margin , and this research would doubtless afford great help in the interpretation of the glaciation of the northern icinisp J 'he , Scientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
449 To sum up :\#151 ; Geologists would hail the organisation and despatch if an Antarctic Expedition in the confident assurance that it could jot fail greatly to advance the interests of their science .
Among he questions which it would help to elucidate , mention may be made of the following:\#151 ; The nature of the rocks forming the land of the Antarctic regions md how far these rocks contain evidence hearing on the history of terrestrial climates .
The extent to which the known fossiliferous formations of our / lobe can he traced towards the poles ; the gaps which may occur between these formations and the light which their study may he ible to throw on the evolution of terrestrial topography .
The history of volcanic action in the past and the conditions mder which it is continued now in the polar regions ; whether in ugh latitudes volcanism , either in its internal magmas or superficial eruptions , manifests peculiarities not observable nearer to the aquator ; what is the nature of the volcanic products now ejected it the surface ; whether a definite sequence can be established from the eruptions of still active volcanoes back into those of earlier geological periods ; and whether among the older sheets leaf-beds or other intercalations may be traceable , indicating the prolongation of a well developed terrestrial flora towards the South Pole .
The influence of the Antarctic climate upon the rocks exposed to its action ; the effects of contact with ice and snow upon streams of lava ; the result of the seaward creep of the ice-cap in regard to any lava sheets intercalated in the ice .
The physics of Antarctic ice in regard to the history of the Ice Age in Northern Europe and America .
Remarks by Professor D'Arcy W. Thompson .
The exploration of the Antarctic gives promise of gains to zoological knowledge that are in no degree less , in my opinion , than in the case of the physical sciences .
The shore-fauna of the Antarctic we know only by a few scanty collections made upon the islands , especially upon Kerguelen Island ; and the fauna of the deep sea is only represented by the produce of eight hauls of the " Challenger 's " dredge .
These few dredgings gave evidence of peculiarly abundant life , indeed they were said , by common consent of the naturalists of the " Challenger , " to be the richest dredgings in all her voyage : and they were as remarkable for the diversity as for the abundance of the animals they procured .
We earnestly desire , and the progress of zoological science needs , further exploration of the deep-sea fanna in all the oceans .
Our knowledge of the fauna of the deep sea is only begun ; it is known much as the fauna of the ' 450 JheScientific Advantages of an Antarctic Expedition .
shore was known a hundred years ago , and we want to know more c the undiscovered forms that are peculiar to it , and more of the strut ture and affinities of those already discovered .
But apart from innumerable facts appertaining to systematic or morpholomca zoology , such as every ocean has yet to yield to us , there are certaii great problems of geographical distribution to which the Antarctic i peculiarly likely to give a clue .
Lying open to , as it were at th confluence of , all the great oceans , its fauna may co-ordinate am explain many things in the divergent faunas of the Indian Ocean the Atlantic , and the Pacific .
One such problem Dr. Murray ha touched upon in his hypothesis of " bipolar distribution , " that is t say , of a general similarity and in many cases of actual identic between the animals of the Arctic and Antarctic Seas .
This theor has been proclaimed before by others , by Theel , for instance , and h Pfeffer ; but others have contested and denied it ; for instance Ortmann in regard to the Crustacea , and Chun in regard to pelagii organisms .
" W e could not have a better illustration of the poverty of our knowledge than the circumstance that so broad and clear and simple an issue as the existence or non-existence of a close relation be tween the Arctic and Antarctic faunas should still be open to dispute For my part I think that the bipolar hypothesis is not proven and I am inclined to think it is untrue .
I believe with Ortmam that in the Decapod Crustacea at least one form is common to tin Arctic and Antarctic Seas ; and with Chun and others that there if evidence that similar pelagic forms occurring in the north and south though not in the surface waters of the tropical seas , are in these \lt ; latter continued across the torrid zone in the deeper and cooler levels of the sea .
I do not think that any single fish , or any Decapod oi Isopod , or any certain one out of a large fauna of Amphipods known from the Antarctic Ocean , is also known from the Arctic and adjacent seas .
It seems to me , however , that we have some good evidence oi very curious similarities between the marine fauna of the Antarctic and that of the N. Pacific in the neighbourhood of Japan ; and it may be that this is to be in part explained by the existence of a line of communication along the Western American coast , in waters singularly cold for the latitude under which they lie .
We know how , in this way , such conspicuous forms as the genus Serolis , the Penguins , the Sea-elephant , the Sea-lions , and the i ur-seals , I might add the giant Sea-weed seem to creep up the American shore , from what was probably their Antarctic home , to Chili,.to the Galapagos , or even to North Pacific and to Japan .
But these are illustrations merely of the zoological problems that Antarctic exploration may solve .
If the bipolar hypothesis be broken down , it will only give place to other hypotheses as interesting as itself .
New facts will give rise to new hypotheses , for further facts to \erify Connection of Lake Tanganyika with the Sea .
451 -\gt ; r to disprove , and the Antarctic holds for us innumerable problems -which we can foresee neither statement nor solution , as well as :he solution of those that we can already in some measure foresee .
:{ On the Zoological Evidence for the Connection of Lake Tanganyika with the Sea .
" By J. E. S. Moore , A.R.C.S. Communicated by Professor Lankester , F.R.S. Received January 12 , \#151 ; Read January 27 , 1898 .
( From the Huxley Research Laboratory , Royal College of Science , London .
) Before 1896 , when 1 had the opportunity ot ?
studying the fauna of Lake Tanganyika on the spot , it was known that there existed in the so-called Sea of Ujiji , one animal , the affinities of which are undoubtedly marine .
This was the medusa , which Dr. Boehm saw as he crossed the lake in 1883 .
It was known further that the jelly-fish was associated in Tanganyika with a number of strange molluscan forms , for the empty shells of what appeared to be some six entirely new genera of gaster-opods , had been brought home by Captain Speak , Joseph Thomson , and Mr. Hore .
As the animals contained in these shells have not hitherto been known , their classification by the conchologists with existing fresh-water types has always appeared extremely doubtful , and from the first Mr. Edgar Smith , who described the greater number of these forms , has held the opinion that they might eventually ' turn out to have the same oceanic characters as the jelly-fish .
It wras therefore one of the objects of my recent expedition to obtain material for the complete determination of these molluscous types , and especially to ascertain if there were any other marine organisms in the lake .
The results of this attempt have been to show:\#151 ; I. That to the six genera of quasi-marine gasteropods , the shells of which were known , viz. , Typhobia , Nassopsis , Syrnolopsis , the so-called Lithoglyphus , and there are now to be added at least two , entirely new generic forms , for which I propose the names* Bathanaliaand Bytlioceras ( figs. 1 and 2 ) .
We have therefore now representing the quasi-marine molluscs of Tanganyika eight genera of gasteropods , and to these should probably be added among the Lamellibranchiata the so-called TJnio Burtoni and one of the Tanganyika Spathas.f * Diagnoses of these new genera will be found in papers now in the hands of the Editor of the ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. ' f Complete accounts of the anatomy of all these Halolimnic genera will shortly appear in the ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. '

