An anatomical Account of the Squalus maximus ( of Linnaeus ) , which in the Structure of its Stomach forms an intermediate Link in the Gradation of Animals between the Whale Tribe and Cartilaginous Fishes .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 11 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Tirans .
1809 , p. 206 .
] The fish described in this account was caught in a herring-net at Hastings , from whence such parts as were more particularly deserving of notice were brought to London for further examination .
It was a male , thirty feet six inches long , and nine feet broad , from the tip of the dorsal fin to the middle line of the belly .
The skin was of a light slate-colour , and though as rough as a new file in the direction from the tail to the head , yet as smooth as satin in the opposite direction .
The mouth was about five feet wide , with six rows in each jaw of small conical teeth , rather curved inwards .
The nostrils were placed on the edge of the upper lip .
The eyes very small , with pupils perfectly round .
HI-alf way between the eye and the gills was an orifice and canal leading to the mouth .
The gills five in number on each side .
The fins , and also their situation , are particularly described .
Adjacent to the anal fins are placed two holders for the purpose of grasping the female , terminated by a flat , sharp , bony process five inches long , which moves on a joint , and is , in fact , the termination of a series of parts corresponding to the pelvis , femur , tibia , and foot of quadrupeds .
The pectoral fins also correspond in some measure to the anterior extremities , and are connected by cartilages , which answer the same purposes as the scapulae and sternum of quadrupeds .
The heart was not larger than that of a bullock , with three valves at the origin of the pulmonary artery , three at the entrance of the aorta , and also two sets more , of three each , in the course of the artery , at a short distance from each other .
The stomach contained several pails full of pebbles , a quantity of mucus , and a small portion of substance that looked like the spawn of the oyster .
Beside the cardiac and pyloric portions of the stomach observable in other sharks , there was a globular cavity communicating with the pyloric portion by a very small orifice , and by another , equally small , ; .
with the intestine .
The liver of this fish yielded about three hogsheads of oil .
The vessels of the liver were large enough to admit a man 's arm .
The bile is conveyed direct to the intestine by twelve hepatic ducts , for there is no gall-bladder .
Although the Squalus here described resembles , in many respects , the tribe of Sharks , it is observed to differ essentially in the form of its stomach , which is intermediate between that of the shark and whale .
In the modes of generation , also , as well as in the stomachs , a series of gradations may be observed from whales through the squalus , sharks , rays , and skates , to the proper fishes ; but this inquiry will form the subject of a future communication .
Mr. Home closes the present account by such particulars as he could collect concerning a large fish thrown ashore on one of the Orkneys , and described as a sea-snake by those who had seen it half putrid and half devoured by sea-fowl ; but it was ascertained by Mr. Home to be in reality another specimen of the same Squalus as that above described .

