A paper was read , entitled , " Some account of the Art of Photo ?
genic Drawing , or the Process by which Natural Objects may be made to delineate themselves without the aid of the Artist 's Pencil .
" By H. F. Talbot , Esq. , F.R.S. In this communication the author states , that during the last four or five years he has invented and brought to a considerable degree of perfection , a process for copying the forms of natural objects by means of solar light , which is received upon paper previously pre ?
pared in a particular manner .
He observes , that a prior attempt of this kind is recorded in the Journal of the Royal Institution for 1802 ; by which it appears that the idea was originally suggested by Mr. Wedgwood , and afterwards experimented on by Sir Hum ?
phry Davy .
These philosophers found , that their principle , though theoretically true , yet failed in practice , on account of certain diffi ?
culties ; the two principal of which were : first , that the paper could not be rendered sufficiently sensible to receive any impression what ?
ever from the feeble light of a camera obscura ; and secondly , that the pictures which were formed by the solar rays could not be pre ?
served , owing to their still continuing to be acted upon by the light .
The author states that his experiments were begun without his being aware of this prior attempt ; and that in the course of them he discovered methods of overcoming the two difficulties above related .
With respect to the latter , he says , that he has found it pos ?
sible by a subsequent process , so to fix the images or shadows form ?
ed by the solar rays , that they become insensible to light , and consequently admit of being preserved during any length of time : as an example of which , he mentions , that he has exposed some of his pictures to the sunshine for the space of an hour , without injury .
With respect to the other point , he states that he has succeeded in discovering a method of preparing the paper which renders it much more sensitive to light than any which had been used previ ?
ously ; and by means of which he finds , that there is no difficulty in fixing the pictures given by the camera obscura and by the solar microscope .
He states that in the summer of 1835 he made a great number of portraits of a house in the country of ancient architecture , several of which were this evening exhibited to the Society .
After some speculations on the possibility of discovering a yet more sensitive paper , the author mentions , that the kind employed by him may be rendered so much so , as to become visibly affected by the full light of the sun , in the space of half a second .
The rest of this paper contains an account of various other ways in which this method may be employed in practice , according to the kind of object which it is required to copy : also , a brief mention of the great variety of effects resulting from comparatively small differences in the mode of preparation of the paper : and , of certain anomalies which occur in the process , the cause of which has not hitherto been rendered distinctly manifest .
In conclusion , the author designates this as " a new process , which he offers to the lovers of science and nature .
"

