]\gt ; Jlism of the Arc By ( Mrs. ) HFmTHA AYRTO Comlnunicated by Professor , F.R.S. Julle \mdash ; Pead June ) , 1901 .
( Al ) The iect of the is to show that , the ordinary of resistance , of and cooling , and of bnrning to the arc , onsidered as a in ircltit Hlrnishing its own conductor by the volatilisation of its own }tteri } its principal phenomena can be ccontlted for , of a large ) E.M.F. , or of a " " negative esistttnce , \ldquo ; or of othc ] .
ttril ) It is shown how ) tion may , even witho .
the selfin tion to which the of a arc , when a circuit is broken , is attributed ; and it is pointed out that , the carbons are , all the material the gap cannot retain its high mperature .
The air cool some of it into or just tlJe s from a kettle is ed into water mist at a short lIistance from its month .
The dissimilar actio1l of the poles common many electric phellomcna displays itself in the at this of both poles the : pole alone does .
It is $onsideled , therefore , that the consists of ( 1 ) a thin layer of vapour from the end of the positive carbon , ( 2 ) a bulb mist ioiniug this to the negativs carbor ] , and ( 3 ) a sheath of ling gases , the ) of the mist , and the hot ends of OIlS , and ding both .
The vapour ppears to be indicated in images of ) a sort of gap between the arc and the positive , the mist a pnrple ) ) , itnd the gases by a boroen The is found to ) } , so the whole of the cnt the and nlist alone .
It is gested t the high lred n of the nlist , it is to the ) csistance of this hlm the ) of the is not to any .
of it is the seal .
tili i at the of contact ) flm the positive that is the cctiou of tho of ) , it must dig the solid .
The sides of the pit , } or , hot to ) )eaches them , hencc VCCIl the } the of the and the of its of the is , the sily to sidcs of the of Elc pit , hence it onlaius c the is ) ) of the sides over the tiou of tho ltro , the of olatilisation becomes fl , or even slightly convex .
The ping of the ative c ) is shown to bc to its tip being protceted from the the mist , its bnrltt mder the donble of from the film conductio ] ] the nlist , to a or less according to the of the the tho ) film .
It is if tho ) defined ] ) eing that of itive carbon is brightc ] than the rest , then the larger , the cnrrent , the longer the arc , the reiJ of the } is for a cnrrcnt .
hection of the vitponr film -ith the the length of the , it is } thitt irs nllst 1iven 1 the where h and is the of -J rent .
This is the form as found ) the 1'.1 .
) .
the and the ) by nlcans of rbon , the resnlts by the .
Hencc the .-istence of a film of pour in ) lvollld not only a of potential the posive carbon , exactly if the crater the of large ) I. ; ) it wonld catlsc that P.D. to vary 1 } itih current the length of the ctly ( it by actnal the rrcnt H cing 1 iusulator , lcsistnncc of olid c of the , mnt ) on the cross-scction of the luist .
To see how this mm. the fnlly d , for rents of 4 , 6 , lnpcrcs .
cross-scction of the llist to noro 1pidly t the clllrcnt , its pidly th the .
As the for of tponr film it too than cntlcltt inct 0 , it the holc locs the P.D. must .
lIcncc it } ) of .
H. Ayl.toll .
P.D. must be negative , though the nce of the is positive .
It is found , from the ) ements of the cross-sections of the llist , that the connection ) etween ?
, the of the the cnrrent , of the fornl , If ries directly with the length of the arc , then this to ( 1 ) , we gct for the resistance of the , which is exactly the form ] ) found iding direct measurements of the P.D. ) etn-een the the corresponding cnrrents .
Hence there is no this ratio should represent the trnc resistance of the arc .
of the the cnrrcnt is changed it takes some time for the film its area to its fullest extent , and still more time for the enck to thei ] .
shapes , All the time these changes arc going on the of the , and , conseqnently , the P.l ) .
the carl ) ) altering also .
Both these , therefore , not only the the length of the arc , bnt also , till ecome s till the arc is " " \ldquo ; ho a has ) made eithcr .
At the afcl of lrrcnt , befol.c the Volati ] ising : time to alter ( all , and SA must the same sign , jnst the if the a ) the volatilising , the .
If , cforc , , current to the rent of an arc , it will depend on the of whethel S1 is positive or Vhen the high the tilising srfacc ncver ] the true of nldcss it ) hich vting crrcnt .
The of the trnc of in this : givcn ions the of cnrlcnt$ low not to of of the th Iength uf with of it is pointed ont that even if the a .
is nsnally supposed , the anllot ) ctlrrent of frequency per second .
The exact couditions llil(ot which the of the be in this mined , the ) tions t it itry to to the fnlfilment of itions : in either ) on ) the the the of P.D. given .
It ers the first , the second , -.p .
, es it a the .
It is pointed out this be inliuencc of corcs cither on the cross-section of the ) its , or the efl.ect on ction , enl } cnts tmpercs frolll of solid \mdash ; olid , litl ed , cored \mdash ; solid , \mdash ; cored .
sets of with pair of carbons-tho one of , to get the " " \ldquo ; othc ] theccomc ltol]nal .
The nist n its scction ] it of the of fillll .
It rffl found -scctiolt of , loss hcn the erc cithcl the same eflcct the of film ) of tho nlist , the tftcr rent , not ]the ) uced that if tho of ts d , the they this , do ' pccific 1 of it ( 'ction .
The ) ( mist ) ) ciIic l it 'of Are ( fi om the .
When , they come from the , ctnd it is only becttse the metallic saIts in the core temperattlre of volatilisation than that the mist is to tilise these and so lower its own specific resistanoe .
effect of a core in either oarl ) , or in both , must depend 011 the current , In the rger the current the more solid carbon will the 1 olatilising face C the less therefore will the specific nces of the mist -aponr be lowered .
The way in which the coro tcts i is traoed , the ltcrations in specific nces a cross-sections due to the core are shown to bring ) in the P.D. ctly s ' to thosc found ) measure- ncntb of the P.D. ) the .
It is shown , for instance , ho nges e for the fact Professor that , constant lcngth of , while the ( liminishes the ) carbons are solid , it metimes remains over widc rango of cnrrent , or en , after .
diminished , lvhen the ) is ored .
The ltcr tions in the of SA introduced by the ssed , it is that the nges in the resistanee of the { follow the ) chaoges in its cross-section , the lterations that must ensue from the ering of its ific .
resistance , just in the that and Rodgers that it modified lirect meltf .
Thus all the of the solid ) ttribntal ) to tions 1 the of the in the ( as it has ) sho , together with the tions in the cross-sections of that ) observed to take .
Hence it is } cither a F. .
or " " lesistance *Electrical Congre .
at Chicago , ot the Arc Pli ] .
' ) ) .

