]\gt ; the Absorption in Copper and By , B.Sc. , Fellow of the University of Wales .
Principal riffiths , Received Much experimental vork has been directed towards the deternnination of the absorption coefficients of -rays in elements\mdash ; especially with respect to the relation existing between th , absorption coefficient and the wave- to the importance of the bearing of the results on the theories of electromagnetic radiation and atomic strncture .
Nevertheless , on account of the experimental difficulties encountered in this work , serious discrepancies appear among the results of different observers .
The method described below appears to offer a reliable and accul.ate means of measuring the absorption coefficients of homogeneous -rays in various olaterials and the wave-lengths of the rays employed .
Among the difliculties experienced in the experimental arrangements , two of the chief ( a ) The heterogeneity of the source .
( b ) The variations in intensity of the source .
By making use of the reflection of -rays by crystals , it is possible to analyse a beam of X-rays into its component wave-lengths .
According to the classical equation of Brag , we have , if spacing of the crystal grating ; glancing angle of the incident ray ; -length of the reflected ray ; ?order of the spectrum ; then 2 .
It is to be observed that the reflected ray may contain , in addition to the primary wave corresponding to , other waves of lengths , etc. , i.e. , submultiples of the primary wave-length , corresponding to , 3 , etc. , respectively .
In these experiments the interference method of obtaining homogeneous beams was employed , a rock-salt crystal being used to analyse a beam of X-rays generated by a Coolidge tube .
The difficulty introduced by the possibility of the reflected beam being mixed with waves of a higher order than the first was obviated in tho following way .
It has been shown by Duane and Hunt that the voltage , required to excite a wave of frequency is given by the equation electronic charge ; An account of research work carried out in the Memorial Physical Research Laboratory of the University College of South Wales and Monmouthshire , Cardiff .
'Phys .
Rev vol. 6 , No. 2 , p. 169 .
Mr. C. M. Williams .
On the Absorption of 's constant ) .
Thus by carefully adjusting the applied to the tnbe , keeping it so as to be\mdash ; for any particular setting of the crystal \mdash ; just below that required to produce the reflected wave of the second order , homogeneous rays were obtained .
This principle is illustrated in fig. 1 , which shows the change in the -absorption curve for aluminium with the variation in the applied to the tube , as measured by the alternative spark-gap between two bright metal spheres 1 cm .
in diameter , the of the X-ray was approximately .
The log- absorption curve becomes a straight line ( 4 ) when the waves of higher order than the first are eliminated by a sufficient reduction of the voltage .
In order to correct for the variations in intensity , which were pronounced , in Copper and minium .
a special device was used .
Instead of employing au ionisation chamber of the ordinary pattern , a double one was constructed .
This consisted of a rectangular metal case AB ( fig. 2 ) , diyided ibudinally into two by the metal plate .
Ihrough the upper and compartments of this ionisation chamber were passed respectively the insulated FIG. 2 .
e]ectrodes and , which could be placed Heparately in connection with an electroscope .
The beam of -rays reflected from the crystal was thus split into two parts ; and the ionisation produced by that the lower compartment provided the data to correct for the ] in the } ) proceeding into upper one .
Thus in a determination of the absorption coefficient of a substance , the electrodes and were first connected to earth and afterwards insulated .
The -ray bulb was then excited for a certain period , at the expiration of which and were connected in turn to the electroscope , and the ionisation produced in each chamber measuled .
sheets the absorbers were placed ) efore the upper slit in succession , and the above process repeated in each case .
After the necessary corrections and reducing all the readings of the upper chamber to a standard reading of the lower , a curve was plotted owing the relation between the of the ionisation current and thickness of the absorber .
Very consistent results were obtained in this ay , the points all } very evenly on a straight line\mdash ; indeed , the results the absorption coefficient obtained in independent ) nents rarely varied by more than 1 cent. , or very occasionally by 2 per cent. As an illustration of the method of working , the actual readings taken in an experiment are given below in Table I ; while fig. 3 is the -absorption curve obtained from these readings , and is typical of the curves given by this method .
The results obtained are summarised below in ) II ; the wavelengths were standardised by observing the position of reflection of the pe of the platinum ectrum .
These results present some interesting features .
It is well known , for mple , that the ratio of the absorption coefficient of one substance to that of another is })oximately independent of the wave-length , provided Mr. C. M. Williams .
On the bsorption of -Rays in Copper and Aluminiun .
Table I I. Wave-length 0 .
Aluminium .
Copper .
do not include any near those characteristic of the absorbel .
I now we plot against in a ) , we the curve shown in A striking feature about curve is that a break ) ears in it at a wave .
( mass absorption coefficient , 2 ) ; it is nificant that Barkla*obtained evidence of the emission b.y aluminium of a radiation , * See " " Bakerian Lecture 1916 , ' Phil. Trams , vol. 217 , t ) .
Mr. .
M. Williams .
On the Absorption of the wave-length of which was approximately equal to this ( mass absorption coefficient , ) .
The results obtained by Pierce , who has also measured FIG. 4 .
absorption coefficients over this range , are also shown in fig. 4 .
The slope of the line representing Pierce 's results agrees with that found in these experiments ; while there is also evidence of a discontinuity at cm .
Unfortunately , Pierce did not extend his observations far in the direction of the shorter waves to establish this with certainty .
Barkla , *from his most recent results , considers that the wave-length of the characteristic radiation of aluminiurn is about .
It is to be noticed , however , as he himself points out , that the radiations used in his absorption experiments were not homogeneous , and hence the wave-length as deduced from the mass absorption coefficient aluminium is subject to error : e.cJ , Brag found that the silver charactelistic rays consisted of two waves of wave-length and .U .
, and with absorption coefficients 'Phil .
Mag October , 1917 , p. 273 . .
and and i respectively , while the absorption coefficient criven by Barkla was mean between these two numbers .
revious results have indicated that the relation between the absorptio1l coeHicient and the wave-length may be expressed , at least approximately , by the formula , where and are constants , representing the coefficient .
The value appears to be the most satisfactory for the results obtained hitherto .
The follo obtained by plotting aiusf .
lVave Length should lead ( Wave Length)3 . .
( Wave Length ) should read ( Wave Length)2 .
VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A. 2 0-74 Mr. .
M. Williams .
On the Absorption of It will be seen that the points lie approximately on a straight line , though , here again , the break in the aluminium curve at a wave-length A.u. is pronounced , while there is also evidence of a discontinuity in the copper curve at a wave-length a little below that at which the break occurs in the aluminium curve\mdash ; a result similar to that obtained by Barkla .
Fig. 6 shows the curves by plotting ainst for aluminium and copper respectively .
In the two cases the graphs are straight lines ; but while the slope for the aluminium line is 3 , that for copper\mdash ; in which case the points are particularly regular\mdash ; is ahnost exactly result in agreement with Owen 's 5th power absorption law .
These curves also bring out very clearly the fact that discontinuities occur both in the case of and of aluminium at wave-lengths and respectively .
Thus it appea1s thal , the value of which best satisfies the results beyond a discontinuity is 3 in the case of aluminium , and in that of copper .
It should be remembered , however , that the scattering coefficient has been neglected .
We should , therefore , more accurately have plotted ainst .
The values given for from to ; and it will be fonnd that the slope in the case either of copper or of aluminium is not materially affected by the inclusion of the coefficient .
-Rays in Copper I desire to express my thanks to Principal Griffiths for the interest he has shown in the work , and for his kind consideration in regard to my wants .
I am also indebted to Captain J. H. Shaxby for much valuable advice and criticism .
Part of the expenses incurred in the research has been defiayed by a special grant from the University of Wales .

