]\gt ; On Pressure Perpendicular to the in Finite Pure Shears , cmd on the Lengthening of Wires when visted .
By J. H. POINTING , Sc. D. , F.R.S. ( Received May 20 , \mdash ; Read June 24 , 1909 .
) In the 'Philosophical Magazine , ' vol. 9 , 190 , p. 397 , I gave an analysis of the stresses in a pure shear appeared to show that if is the angle of shear and if is the rigidity , then a pressure exists perpendicular to the planes of shear .
That analysis is , I believe , faulty in that the diagonals of the rhombus into which a square is sheared are not the lines of greatest elongation and contraction , and are not at right angles after the shear , when second order quantities are taken into account , i.e. , quantities of the order of ; I think the following analysis is more correct , and though it does not give a definite result , it leaves the existence of a longitudinal pressure an open question .
The question appears to be answered in the affirmative by some experiments , described in the second part of the paper , in which loaded wires were found to lengthen when twisted by a small amount proportional to the square of the twist .
Stresses in a Pure Shear .
Let a square ABCD ( fig. 1 ) of side be sheared into EFCD by motion through AE , the volume being constant .
The angle of shear is ADE , and exactly ; neglecting , we may put To find which lin is stretched most by the shear , consider the line drawn from to and making with DC before Let it stretch to , making with DC ; we have and ; also rd ; thus Differentiating with respect to , it is a maximum when or Put , then tan2 On Pressure Perpendicular to the Shear Ptanes , etc. 547 or to the second order , so that makes with the DB of the square , and on the upper side .
If the same shear is now made in the opposite direction contracts to and the same directions of before , and after shear , ( the maximum contraction .
It is almost obvious that makes with DB the lower side , but it may be verified by putting and the maximum value of after on the right .
Hence the lines of elongation and contraction are at with the diagonals of the square , and are at angles before and after the strain , to the order of .
It is noteworthy that as the shear increases the fibres which maximum elongation and ction c To find and pub , then ; and the of we get .
It is easily seen that the ation and contraction are respectively ; .
We shall now consider esses .
We shall assume that a pressure is put on in the irection of maximum contraction and a tension in the direction of ximum elongation , these , as we have seen , at ; and we shall consider the equilibrium of the FIG. 1 .
FIG. 2 .
sheared , assuming that and are the only forces on AC ] .
Let AB ; ; these the values just VOL. LXXXII.\mdash ; A. 2 Dr. Pointing .
Pressure Perpendicular to the [ May 20 , Resolve perpendicular to the base and let be the pressure against the base , then R. 2 where and can only be taken as equal to the first order .
Proceeding to second order , we must put ; then where is a constant to the second order .
Thus and and the third term being igible .
If we resolve parallel to the base , it is easily found that the tangential stress is If the shear is produced by a tangential stress , then it requires the system , and to maintain equilibnum with it .
It is possible that a stress exisbs perpendicular to the plane of the figure in fig. 1 .
It can only be assumed that the changes of dimension in that direction neutralise each other to the first order when equal pushes and pulls are put on in the plane of the ; when the dimensions perpendicular to the figure are constrained to remain the same to the second order\mdash ; and this is our supposition\mdash ; it may require a tension or pressure to effect this .
Let us suppose that a pressure is introduced , a tension if is negative .
To make we should require to have ; also would then be less than Q. If pressure perpendicular to AC is exerted ne , and then tensi-on perpendicular to BC is exerted alone , it appears probable that for very large equal compressions and extensions is greater than Q. If suppose that when they are simultaneous the tendency is in the same direction , then should have a positive value , or the longitudinal pressure perpendicular to AB should exist .
Let us examine the consequences of the supposition that both and exist .
Let a thin tube of length and of radius be fixed at one end , and let 1909 .
] Shear Planes in Finite Pure Shears , etc. the other end be twisted through so that the angle of shear is Let an end pressure ) be put on , and also a side pressure so as to maintain constant dimensions .
The side pressure may be replaced by a uniform pressure over the whole surface , and a tension over the ends .
We have then an end pressure and a pressure all over .
Now suppose that these forces are removed .
Through the removal of R-S we shall have a given by and a contraction of the diameter given by where is modulus and is Poisson 's ratio .
Through the removal of the pressure we shall have a given by , where is the bulk modulus , and an expansion of the diameter given by The end lengthening is therefore ; or putting 1/ 3 it is where is put for ) The diameter decreases by It would not be easy to test this result with a thin tube .
But if we suppose that a wire extends by the amount equal to the average extension of the tubes into which it may be resolved , we I now proceed to describe some experiments which shcw that such an extension exists .
Lengthcning of lioaded Wircs when oisted .
Experiments were made on several wires hung vertically from a fixed support , and loaded in order that kinks or remnants of the spiral due to the coiling to which they had been subjected might be taken out .
This was considered to be when the stretch for a given addition of load was Dr. Pointing .
Pressure Perpendicular to the [ May 20 , FIG. \mdash ; Elevation of Arrange- screws il .
To adjust this axis in the axis of ment for Twisting the wires .
the wire prolonged , the turntable could be moved over the base plate by means of the horizontal screws , of which only one is represented in fig. 3 .
All are shown in fig. 4 .
A horizontal microscope not represented in the was attached to one of the hts and focussed on the edge of the rod .
The adjustment by the screws was 1909 .
] .
Planes in Fimite Pxvre , etc. continued until the microscope always saw the edge of the rod in the middle of the field , however the turntable be turned .
To give a definite point of view in the microscope , in the earlier experiments starch grains were put on the wire about 1 cm .
from the iower end .
These were illuminated , and a suitable one was selected .
In the later expel'iments a needle , about 1 cm .
, was fixed on the upper end of the rod , point upwards , close side the wire , and the needle point was viewed .
This was better than the starch grains .
In the earlier work the temperature of tlJe room FIG. 4.\mdash ; Plan of the ossan ntable .
was fairly steady , the in due to temperature variations were too slow to trouble .
But in some irusty weather occurring later there were such rapid and considerable variations in the temperature of the room that it was necessary to enclose the wire in ) wooden tube .
After this was done temperature no further trouble , whatever the In order to observe the effect of a twist the turntable was levelled and adjusted axially when the wire and cross-piece were free .
turntable was rotated till the on the just touched the cross-piece .
Then chalk were made on the turntable and on the plate , one just over the other .
The microscope was adjusted exactly to sight the upper or lower of a starch grain its horizontal cross-wire , and the micrometer was read .
Then the turntable was rotated so mauy whole turns , and the micrometer plate was moved till the edge of the was on the cross-wire and the micrometer was read With the exception of a wire stretched only by the of the rod cross-piece , in son experiments described later , there WftS always a on twisting , of the same order whether the twist was clockwise or counter clockwise .
The was nearly proportional to the square of the twist put on .
It was necessary to limit the twist to a few turns to avoid permanent set , and when such a small twist had and the wire was untwisted it returned sensibly to its oinal l The was entirely due to and not to of the support , for when a microscope was sighted on a point on the wire close to the upper end , no in level could be detected , when the was twisted turns at ibs lower end .
This was there verified by it experiment on a steel wire from the same piece as No. 3 below , which showed that the extension half-way down the wire was , within the limits of Dr. Pointing .
Pressure Perpendicular to the [ May 20 , experimental error , half that at the lower end .
A microscope and micrometer we1e fixed on a table half-way up the wire and a needle point was fixed here as well as at the lower end .
At each twist and untwist both micrometers were read .
I give the observations in this experiment in full , as they will show the sort of accuracy attained .
The lower end was twisted from a starting twist of turn to 4turns .
Micrometer Beadings at Lower End .
Mean lowering , divisions .
One division of micrometer mm. The lowering is mm. Micrometer eadings Half-way up the Wire .
Mean lowering , 216 divisions .
One division of micrometer mm. The lowering is mm. If the lowering at the end is accurate , that half-way up should be mm. The observed lowering is as nearly equal to this as could be expected .
With the first wire , determinations of extension due to an addition of 520 grammes were made both in the untwisted and twisted conditions , as it 1909 .
] Shear Planes in Finite , etc. was only when these became sensibly equal that the on twist became equal for different loads .
The extra load could be put on or taken offby lowering or a lever , not represented in .
It is unnecessary to describe the details of this arrangement .
The experiments with the other wires were made with such loads that it was not considered necessary to observe the stretch due to addition of load .
Results .
la .
Steel piano wire , diameter mm. of 10 measurements at different points ) , length in tlus and all cases to observing point 230 cm .
Permanent set after putting on turns twist and then only a very few degrees .
Total load , 7081 grammes .
The twist is termed clockwise when the turntable as viewed from above is moved clockwise .
Clockwise twist , 0\mdash ; 4 turns ; lowering mm. , mean of 10 observations .
0\mdash ; 8 , , .
, , , , , The ratio of these is The extension due to an addition of 520 grammes No twist on the wire mm. , mean of 10 observations .
4 turns , , , , 1 .
Same wire .
Total load , 9081 grammes .
C]ockwise twist , 0\mdash ; 4 turns ; lowering mm. , mean of 20 observations .
0\mdash ; 8 , , , , The ratio of these is The extension due to an addition of 520 grammes was : No twist on the wire mm. , mean of 10 observations .
8 turns , , , Taking the mean lowering for the two loads of 7081 and 9081 for turns twist , viz. , mm. , and taking it as proportional to the of the twist , the for one turn is mm. , and The moduli of elasticity of this wire were found to be whence .
The value of , found for loads of 1081 gramnes and 9081 grammes respectively , was identical .
Dr. Pointing .
Pressure Perpendicular to the [ May 20 , 2 .
The same wire was raised to a red heat , by an electric current , with the load of 9081 grammes on it .
It lengthened about 3 cm .
, and this length was cut off .
The surface oxidised , and when the oxide was rubbed off the diameter was mm. ( mean of 10 ) .
The permanent set after twisting and untwisting was reater , and so only three turns were given .
Total load , 9081 grammes .
Clockwise twist , 0\mdash ; 3 turns ; lowering mm. , mean of five observations .
The extension due to an addition of 520 grammes No twist on the wire mm. , mean of 10 observations .
3 turns , , , The lowering for one turn according to the square law is : mm. , and mm. The five values of the lowering were : divisions , mean .
With such small lowering no accuracy could be expected , and it would be difficult to verify the square law .
The moduli of elasticity for the softened wire were : and whe1lce 3 .
Steel piano wire , diameter mm. ( mean of 10 ) .
A needle point fixed at the side of the wire was viewed in the microscope .
After twisting and , a permanent set threw the point out of focus if the start was from no twist .
A quarter turn was therefore put on initially , and the twisting was from this , and the was back to it .
Total load , 19,504 grammes .
Clockwise twist , turns ; lowering mm. , mean of 10 observations .
, , , 0.0339 \ldquo ; Counter clockwise twist , turns ; mm. , mean of 10 obs .
Mean lowering , mm. , 0 .
, , , By the square law the lowerings for , and should be as 289 : 81 : 1 , and the differences should be as 288 : The observed differences are as The lowering for one turn deduced from the difference between and is mm. , and 1909 .
] Planes , etc. the lowerings for one turn of this wire with the hard wire No. 1 , if the vering is proportional to the square of the diameter , we to haVe for a lowering of mm. The observed was mm. , which is as near the calculated value as could be expected .
4 .
The same was then aised to a red heat by an electric current the load on .
After being ) down its diameter was .
( mean of 10 measurements ) .
Same load as 3 .
Clockwise twist , turns , lowering mm. , mean of 10 observation The deduced .
for one turn .
is mm. The value of is mm. the for one turn of this wire with the suftened vire No. 2 , the square law for the diameter should for No. 2 a mm. The observed l a considerable divergence .
5 .
Copper wire , diameter mm. ( mean of 10 ) .
Load , 7081 grannmes .
Clockwise twist , turns ; mm. , mean of 1 .
observations .
Counter clockwise twist , turns ; , mean of 10 It was not safe to give a greater twist .
to the eness ot ' the permanent set .
With turns the set was still small .
The of the for the counter clockwise twist is almost certainly real , and not merely error of observation .
Some other observations showed an eve greater excess , though they ere very irregular owing to temperature variations , and not worth .
The extension due to an addition of 520 grammes No twist on the wire mm. , mean of 20 observations .
3 turns , , , , Takino ) o mean for clockwise and counter }vise twist , the for one turn is , and mm. 6 .
Brass wire , diameter .
( mean of 10 ) .
Load ammes .
Clockwise twist , turns ; ering 0 , mean of 10 observations .
, , , , 0.0540 , \ldquo ; Counter clockwise twist , turns ; lowering mm. , of 10 obs .
, The difference between vise and counter clockwise is too for errors of obselvation .
For the square the for , and for should be in the ratio 18 : 5 .
They are in the ratios 16 : o for clockwise , and ) counter clockwise twisting .
The lowering for one turn clockwise , as deduced Dr. Pointing .
Pressure Perpendicular to the [ May 20 , from , is mm. , and for one turn counter clockwise is mm. The mean value of Experiments with Smaller Lohds .
When the piano wire diameter mm. was loaded only with the rod and cross bar weighing rammes , there was a rise on twisting .
Clockwise twist , 0\mdash ; 4 turns , rise mm. 0\mdash ; 8 , 0.139 , Counter clockwise twist , 0\mdash ; 4 , , , , 0\mdash ; 8 , , , , The extension for an addition of grammes No twist on wire mm. , mean of 6 observations .
4 turns clockwise , , , , 6 4 turns counter clockwise , , , , 6 If by means of the observed extensions we calculate the positions of the point viewed , when the load of 1081 grammes is taken off we find that the total rise would be for clockwise twist : for four turns mm. , and for eight turns , mm. The rise appears to be due to coiling up of the wire on twisting , through some remnant of the spiral condition in which it existed before suspension .
This is confirmed by the very large increase in extension , due to addition of load as the twist on the wire is increased .
It may be a coincidence that the rise on twisting and the increase of stretch are both nearly proportional to the square of the number of turns .
Experiments were then mads with greater loads to find how the lowering and extension changed .
Only clockwise twist was observed .
Load 3081 grammes , the rise changed to Twist , 0\mdash ; 4 turns ; lowering mm. , mean of 20 observations .
0\mdash ; 8 , , 0.0498 , The extension due to an addition of 520 grammes No twist on the wire mm. , mean of 10 observations .
4 turns , , \ldquo ; \ldquo ; Showing a still excess of extension in the most twisted condition .
Load 5081 grammes .
Twist , 0\mdash ; 4 turns ; lowering mm. , mean of 20 observations .
0\mdash ; 8 , , , \ldquo ; \ldquo ; 1909 .
] Shear in Finite Pure Shears , etc. The extension due to an addition of 520 grammes No twist on the wire 0141 mm. , mean of 10 observations .
4 tnrns , , , , , , 15 The results for loads of 7081 and 9081 grammes are already recorded under la and 1 .
There is obviously a tendency for the to increase with load until the extensions under different twists become more nearly equal with equal added load .
When the same wire was softened and loaded with 3081 grammes the lowering for three turns was mm. mean of 10 obSeryatiouS ) .
The extension due to an addition of 520 grarmnes No twist on the wire mm. , mean of 10 ions .
3 turns , , , With load 9081 the same wire gave the results recorded under 2 , which show a greaterlowering for an equal twist but the same extension with added load .
The copper wire diameter mm. ( No. 5 above ) with load 4081 grammes gave : Clockwise twist , 0\mdash ; 3 turns , mm. , mean of 10 observations .
Counter clockwise twist , 0\mdash ; 3 turns , mm. , mean of 10 observations .
Taking the mean of these , the lowering for one turn is mm. The extension due to an addition of 520 grammes No twist on the wire mm. , mean of 5 observations ; 3 tnrns , , \ldquo ; extensions agreeing very nearly with those recorded above for a load of 6081 grammes on the same wire .
on of Jleas The lowering was never so much as mm. and was usually much less .
The accuracy attained could hardly be expected to be reat .
The measurements , however , appear to show that when a wire is sufficiently loaded to be straightened , it is lengthened by twisting by an amount proportional to the square of the twist and with a iven number of turns inversely as the length .
It mi , be thought possible that the effect observed was due to rise of temperature , either through adiabatic strain or through dissipation of strain energy as heat .
But the observations give no support to this explanation .
When the wire was extended by twisting , it remained extended , and when Dr. Pointing .
Pressure to the [ May 20 , untwisted it returned .
Temperature effects would be a maximum the instant after twisting , and would then gradually subside .
It may be noted that the adiabatic change of temperature is proportional to , but it is a cooling , and its amount is such as to shorten the wire , in the case of steel , by something of the order of 1/ 100 of the observed extension .
If we suppose that some definite fraction of strain energy put in is dissipated , again the change , now a , is ional to .
The whole strain energy , in the case of steel , would only raise the temperature by an amount accounting for somethin of the order of 1/ 10 the observed extension , and , in fact , only an exceedingly minute fraction of the strain energy is dissipated .
A comparison of the wires ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) appears to show that the lengthening for a given twist is proportional to the square of the radius .
If we put the lengthening for steel is in the neighbourhood of 1 .
For copper and brass is in the yhbourhood of .
The for the copper and brass wires tested for twists in opposite directions is not the same .
With a hard steel wire with small load the end of the wire on twisting , probably coiling .
The value of appears to be measurable , but its value gives us no clue to the values of and If we could assume , then for steel we should have about 2 , but I see no justification for the assumption .
If we could measure the decrease in diameter , we should obtain the value of , and , and we should be able to find and .
But a thin wire is quite unsuitable for this measmement .
The decrease is probably of the order of 2 lerlgthening .
With the wires I have used this is of the order lengthening , and an accuracy of measurement of mm. would be required at least .
With a shaft of considerab ] diameter it might be possible to measure the quantity , though the experimental difficulties are obviously very great .
The Effpct of the engthening of a Wire on its Tor.sional Vibration .
If a wire is loaded with mass having moment of inertia I , when is set vibrating torsionally it and rises as it swings , its distance below the highest point being by The kinetic is The last term is easily found to be negligible .
1909 .
] Shear in Finite , etc. 1 ) The potential en g is The equation of motion is Whence and is reater than it would be if were by faetor If is 's modulus and if is the elon , of the vire due to the load Mg , so that the factor may be written as If the vibrations are used to determine Che modulus of value of will be greater Lhan that deduced by of by the factor 12 se To an idea of the effect on the deterlnination of the lnodnlus oi rigidity , let us suppose that a quite steel wire , diameter mm. , has a load of 2000 ammes .
For steel is about .
For the give diameter is about .
We have found that is ) .
The ing factor is then about , or the true ity exceeds calculated in the ordinary way by ) in 1000 .
If the is not sufficiently loaded to be the yalne of is less .
If very loaded the of may be and the true idity may be less than the yalue ordinarily calculated .
The correction is hardly needful in ] ) ctice , as modulus of idiCy is probably not measurable to ures .
In purely distortional waves in a medium reat oxtent it is cyidenti that the pressure perpendicular to the axes of shear , if it ists , will not produce any motion .
To keep purely with motion perpendicular to the direction of propagation only , , force applied from outside per cubic in ction of alion .
If this is nob applied otion llust result , obviously of the second order , unless is ) the condition for an lpressible medium .
If is not zero it appears that dispersion may exist .
If tho lnotio is neglected the in the direction of ation is and all that we can say , at present , is it is probably of the order of ) .

