On a new Series of periodical Colours produced by the grooved Surfaces of Metallic and Transparent Bodies .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S.L. .
E. Read May 21,1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 301 .
] The author , having received from Mr. Barton in the year 1822 some fine specimens of his Iris ornaments , undertook a series of experiments on the action of grooved surfaces upon light , of which he communicated an account to the Royal Society of Edinburgh in the following year .
The investigation having since been taken up by Mr. Fraunhofer , the author had desisted from pursuing it until lately , when he learned that the phenomena which had principally occupied his attention had escaped the notice of this philosopher .
The image of a candle seen by reflexion , from a flat and polished metallic surface , covered with equal and equidistant grooves , the plane of reflexion being parallel to the grooves , is accompanied with a row of prismatic images , arranged in a line perpendicular to the grooves .
The colourless image of the candle is formed by the original portions of the metallic surface , which have been left between the grooves , while the prismatic images are formed by the sides of the grooves themselves .
This is rendered evident to the eye by varying the proportion between these two parts of the surface .
The general phenomena of the prismatic images , such as their distance from the ordinary image , and the dispersion of their colours , depend entirely on the number of grooves and intervals which occupy a given breadth ; and the laws of these phenomena have been accurately determined by Mr. Fraunhofer .
Dr. Brewster , by examining the appearances with more attention , observed in some specimens a remarkable defalcation of particular colours , varying with the angle of incidence , and sometimes affecting one of the images and not the others ; in some cases even the image reflected from the original surface of the steel was slightly coloured , its tint having a relation to the defalcation of colour in the prismatic images .
In order to observe these phenomena through a great range of incidence , he employed a long narrow rectangular aperture , which gave a convergent beam of 300 or 40 ? .
Under these circumstances , the ordinary image of the aperture , as formed by the original surfaces , was crossed , in a direction at right angles td its length , with broad coloured fringes , varying in their tints according to the angle of incidence .
In a specimen having 1000 grooves in an inch , no less than four complete orders of colours are developed , corresponding to those of the reflected rings of thin plates .
By turning the steel plate round in azimuth , the same colours are seen at the same angles of incidence , and they undergo no change by varying the distance of the luminous aperture , or of the eye of the observer .
The analysis of these curious and apparently complicated phenoinena is much simplified by the employment of homogeneous light .
T'he author pursues this anzalysis with red and with violet light respectively , and explains the obliteration of the colours by the aid of diagrams , giving also various tables of the angles of incidence at which the several deficiencies occur in the reflected colours .
These angles are rendered different by covering the steel plate with water and oil of cassia in succession .
Phenomena analogous to those above described take place on the grooved surfaces of gold , silver , calcareous spar , and other substances .
Similar grooves impressed upon tin , realgar , and also upon isinglass , exhibited phenomena diversified according to the respective refractive powers of these substances .
The Clmost perfect transparency of isinglass enabled the author to examine the transmitted tints , which in the ordinary image he found were extremely brilliant , but had no relation whatsoever , either in number or in quality , to the reflected tints .
The transmitted tints of the ordinary prismatic images always increase in brightness as the angle of incidence diminishes ; while the reflected tints become fainter .
The new class of periodical colours described in this paper cannot , in the opinion of the author , be referred to the diffraction and interference of the rays reflected from two or more of the portions of the original surface of the metal , considered as narrow slits or apertures ; because they would in that case be affected by the distance both of the luminous object and of the eye , and the colours would form bands parallel to the direction of the grooves .
But if we suppose that the parts of the original surface are smaller than the distance to which the reflecting force extends , the removal of the metal from the adjacent grooves must diminish the reflecting force of these parts of the surface ; and he infers , from direct experiment , that this is the case .
On the hypothesis of emission , this abstraction of reflecting matter may be regarded as equivalent to a diminution of the density of the surface ; while on the undulatory hypothesis , the effect may be ascribed to the condition of the ether arising from a variation in its intensity or elasticity towards the surface of a number of salient points .

