446 Mr. J. N. Langley .
Origin of the [ Feb. 18 , Carael ( T. ) Epitome Florae Europae .
Fasc .
1 .
Monocotyledones .
8vo .
Florentice 1892 .
The Author .
Fayrer [ Sir J. ) , F.R.S. Presidential AddrasSj International Congress of Hygiene and Demography , 1891 .
8vo .
London [ 1892 ] .
The Author .
Roscoe ( Sir H. E. ) , F.R.S. , and C. Schorlemmer , F.R.S. A Treatise on Chemistry .
Yol .
III .
Part VI .
8vo .
1892 .
The Authors .
Map of England showing Lines of Equal Magnetic Declination for January 1 , 1892 .
The Editor , 1 Colliery Guardian .
' Reduced Photograph of Map showing the Points of Earthquake Frequency in New Zealand .
Mr. George Hogben , Timaru .
February 18 , 1892 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Nature of the Shoulder Girdle and Clavicular Arch in Sauropterygia .
" By fl. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1892 .
[ Publication deferred .
] II .
" On the Origin from the Spinal Cord of the Cervical and Upper Thoracic Sympathetic Fibres , with some Observations on White and Grey Rami Communicantes .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received January 20 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments of which an account is given in this paper were made upon anaesthetised cats , dogs , and rabbits .
The lower cervical and upper thoracic nerves were tied , cut , and stimulated in the 1892 .
] Cervical and Upper Thoracic Sympathetic , $c .
447 vertebral canal , and the effects of the stimulation observed .
The results were as follows:\#151 ; None of the lower cervical nerves produces any of the effects which can be produced by stimulating the upper thoracic or cervical sympathetic ; i.e. , the lower cervical nerves send no efferent visceral fibres to the sympathetic .
The pupil receives dilator fibres from the 1st , 2nd , and 3rd thoracic nerves .
The relative effect of these nerves upon the pupil varies somewhat in different animals of the same species , and varies considerably in animals of different orders .
In the cat and dog , both the 1st and 2nd thoracic nerves cause great dilation of the pupil ; in the cat , as a rule , the 1st produces greater dilation than the 2nd thoracic , but this is not always the case , and sometimes the 2nd is more powerful than the 1st thoracic nerve ; the 3rd thoracic nei 've has a comparatively slight action , and the extent of its action varies : in some cases the dilation produced by it is readily observed , in others it requires special attention .
In the rabbit , the 2nd thoracic nerve is the chief dilator nerve for the pupil ; the 3rd thoracic nerve produces a considerable dilation , but less promptly than the 2nd ; the 1st thoracic has the least action of the three , and in some cases has a very slight effect .
The nerve-fibres causing retraction of the nictitating membrane and opening of the eyelids have in the dog and rabbit the same origin as the dilator fibres for the pupil .
In the cat , their origin is somewhat more extended ; a few fibres arise from the 4th thoracic nerve , and occasionally a very few from the 5th thoracic nerve .
The vaso-motor fibres for the head*arise in the cat from the first five thoracic nerves , in the dog from the first four , and probably to a slight extent also from the 5th .
The 1st thoracic nerve has a slight to moderate vaso-motor effect in the dog , a less and inconstant effect in the cat ; the 2nd and 3rd thoracic nerves cause complete and rapid constriction of the small arteries on the same side of the head ; the 4th thoracic also causes complete contraction , but more slowly than either the 3rd or the 2nd : in the dog its effect is less than in the cat ; the 5th thoracic nerve has in the cat a distinct though less effect than the 4th ; in the dog its action is doubtful .
In the rabbit , the vaso-motor nerves for the ear arise from the 2nd \ to the 8th thoracic nerves inclusive ; the 5th nerve has usually the most rapid effect ; passing upwards or downwards , the effect decreases ; the 2nd and 8th nerves usually cause Complete constriction in a part only of the auricular artery .
The secretory fibres for the sub-maxillary gland of the cat and dog have the same origin as the vaso-motor fibres for the head .
The 2nd thoracic causes secretion more readily than any other nerve .
* Certain parts only of the head have been observed .
448 Lord Rayleigh .
the [ F eb .
18 , The cardiac accelerator fibres arise in the cat from the first four ov five thoracic nerves ; the maximum effect is obtained sometimes from , the 2nd and sometimes from the 3rd thoracic nerve ; the 1st and the 4th thoracic nerves have in some animals a considerable accelerator action , in others little or none ; the 5th nerve appears occasionally to contain a few accelerator fibres , but further evidence is desirable .
Taking into account the pilo-motor fibres of the cat and dog , it is seen that the cervical sympathetic arises in these animals from the first seven , and in the rabbit from the first eight , thoracic nerves the 1st thoracic is , however , less represented in the cervical sympathetic of the rabbit than it is in that of the cat and dog .
Comparing the rabbit with the cat and dog , as regards sympathetic fibres , which are present in all , it results that in the cat and dog the fibres of any one kind are higher in origin , and in some cases present in fewer spinal nerves , than they are in the rabbit .
In accordance with this , the 2nd thoracic more frequently causes a movement of the fore-foot in the rabbit than in the other two animals .
On the whole , the sympathetic fibres of any one kind appear to be slightly higher in the dog than in the cat .
The uppermost white ramus communicans arises from the 1st thoracic nerve ; the lowest in the dog and cat arises usually , as described by Gaskell , from the 4th lumbar nerve ; occasionally , however , the 5th lumbar nerve gives off a white ramus to the sympathetic .
Both in the upper and lower regions of the spinal cord , there is satisfactory experimental evidence of efferent sympathetic fibres in those spinal nerves which have white rami , and in those only .
This is in agreement with the views of Gaskell .
In the grey rami , medullated fibres of greater diameter than 4 fi\#151 ; and , perhaps , some of the smaller ones\#151 ; are probably afferent fibres , which pass to the spinal cord by the whiterami .
A comparison of the histological characters and of the reflex effects yielded by various parts of the sympathetic , by the depressor , and by the nervus erigens , affords strong evidence that a considerable number of the medullated fibres of larger diameter than 4 / t , although afferent , are not fibres of general sensibility .
In the course of the paper the results of previous observers are given and discussed .
III .
" On the Relative Densities of Hydrogen and Oxygen .
II* ' By Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received February 5 , 1892 .
In a preliminary notice upon this subject , * I explained the pr0* ccdure by which I found as the ratio of densities 15 884 .
lh\#174 ; * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 356 , February , 1888 .

