On Palceodiscus a : " On the Structure and Affinities of Palaeodiscus and Agelacrinus .
" By W. K. Spencer , B.A. , F.G.S. , Burdett Coutts Scholar , University of Oxford .
Communicated by Professor W. J. Sollas , F.R.S. Received March 22 , \#151 ; Head June 9 , 1904 .
[ Plate 1 .
] The following research was undertaken at the suggestion of Professor Sollas .
It endeavours to elucidate , by the aid of the method described in the 'Phil .
Trans./ B. , vol. 196 , the structure of two genera of rare but very important Palaeozoic Echinodermata , namely , , the Echinoid Palaeodiscus and the Edrioasteroid Agelacrinus .
The fossils were ground at imiform distances of mm. , and each successive surface photographed .
From tracings of the photographs wax models were constructed .
On the results of these investigations views are brought forward as to the relationships of some of the groups of the Echinodermata .
I have to thank Professor Sollas for his never-failing advice and assistance , and also Dr. Bather for his courtesy in my visits to the British Museum of Natural History .
Palceodiscus ferox ( Salter ) .
Palaeodiscus was discovered by Salter ( 1 ) in the Lower Ludlow beds at Leintwardine , Shropshire .
The specimen was in the form of a cast , and otherwise imperfect .
Salter was unable to decide whether " it was an Ophiurid with contracted arm plates or one of the Asteriadse with*a greatly developed masticatory apparatus .
" Wyville Thomson ( 22 ) in 1861 described specimens contained in the College Museum in Belfast .
He placed Palaeodiscus in near relationship with Echinocystites , a genus which he here describes for the first time .
Both genera were recognised as Echinoids , but with close relationships to the Cystoids .
Wright in his monograph of the ' British Fossil Echinodermata of the Oolitic Formations ' was apparently unaware of Wyville Thomson 's work , and merely copies Salter 's descriptions .
Zittel , in 1879 , while recognising the Echinoid affinities of Echinocystites , yet places Palseodiscus amongst the Asteroidea .
Neumayr , in 1881 , regarded Palaeodiscus and Echinocystites as very nearly related .
" Im Ganzen stent Palaeodiscus einen Typus for , welcher Charaktere von Seesternen mit solchen von Cystocidaris ( Echinocystites ) , der wichtigen Zwischenform zwischen Seeigeln und Cystideen , verbindet .
" ( 16 , p.419 .
) * Gregory ( 5 , p. 130 ) , in 1897 , definitely.placed Palaeodiscus amongst the Echinoids .
He remarks , " the general characters of the skeleton are more echinoid than asteroid ; the absence of special adambulacral plates , the occurrence of small articulating spines , the resemblance of 32 Mr. W. K. Spencer .
On Structure and [ Mar. 22 " the interradial perisomatic plates to those of Echinocystis , and the characters of the masticatory apparatus , are all points which ally Palseodiscus to the Echinoidea , and separate it from the Stelleroidea .
' " On two other points , however , his description is by no means so accurate , for he says that the ambulacral plates are flush with those of the interradii , and the ambulacral plates are not perforated by pores , but the podia pass out between the plates .
The most perfect specimens of Palceodiscus ferox discovered up to the present are in the Grindrod collections of the Oxford University Museum .
Using these as his material , Professor Sollas , in 1900 , gave a description of the ambulacra and the lantern of Aristotle .
All the specimens except one were in the form of casts .
By the aid of these casts and a well-preserved ambulacrum two series of plates in the ambulacra were identified , an outer series , pierced for podia , and an inner series .
Professor Sollas ( 20 , p. 705 ) called the outer series the true Echinoid Text Fig. 1.\#151 ; Ventral surface of Paleeodiscus ferox reconstructed from several specimens in the Oxford Museum ; .
, initial interambulacral plate ; ctm.p .
, ambulacral plates ; rh.p .
, rbomboidal plates of interambulacral areas .
1904 .
] Affinities of Palceodiscus and plates , the inner he compared to the ambulacral ossicles of Asteroids .
This suggested a solution as to the long-standing puzzle of the relationships of Asteroids and Echinoids .
One specimen of Palseodiscus showed plates in the vicinity of the mouth which had fortunately escaped solution .
That no doubt might remain as to the existence of the double series of plates , one of the ambulacra of this specimen was cut away and ground .
The result of the investigation , together with some amplifications in the description of the genus , form the first part of this paper .
Description.\#151 ; The general appearance of the form of Palaeodiscus , as preserved in the shale , suggests that it was originally discoid and rounded .
All the known remains are flattened almost completely in the horizontal plane , and are thus quite different from the impressions of the globular Echinocystis , which lie in almost any plane .
( Plate 1 , fig. 1 .
) Usually the peristomal region is occupied by a cast of the lantern of Aristotle .
One of the specimens as described by Professor Sollas possesses , however , an impression of the peristome , which is seen , to be occupied by the plates of the ambulacra .
No interambulacral plates are present here .
This is the first of the many embryonic and primitive characters which characterise the genus .
It recalls the arrangement which occurs in certain other families of the Palsechinoidea , .
namely , the Bothriocidaroida , the Lepidocentridse and the Lepidesthidse-Further , Professor Lov\amp ; i ( 11 , pp. 6 , 7 , 12 ) has shown that in the young , stages of Goniocidaris and Strongylocentrus the ambulacral areas meet and shut out the interambulacral plates from the mouth region , although later these latter plates invade the peristome .
The interambulacrum , as shown in fig. 2 , begins with a single plate .
This acquires great importance from the studies of Lov4n and Jackson .
Lov^n ( 11 , p. 12 ) has shown that in the interambulacrum of young Echinoids there is but a single plate .
During later growth the initial plate is gradually resorbed .
The initial plate is represented , however , in the adult clypeastroids and spatangoids as also in the Palaeozoic genera Melonites , Lepidechinus , and Pholidocidaris .
There is one genus of Palaeozoic Echinoid\#151 ; Bothriocidaris\#151 ; which possesses only one row of plates in the interambulacral regions .
This has led Jackson ( 9 , p. 233 ) to suggest that Bothriocidaris represents an ancestral form from which the remaining Echinoids may be derived .
The form of the inter-ambulacral plates of Palaeodiscus as detailed below shows , however , , that even if we take the criterion of the interambulacrum , it appears ' much more primitive and ancestral than that of Bothriocidaris .
The majority of the interambulacral plates are rhomboidal in form , and it is- ' only near the peristome that they become polygonal .
Lov4n ( 11 , p. 20)\#187 ; shows that the newer interambulacral plates arise distally from the mouth , and are nearly quadrangular .
Later they become polygonal owing to growth pressure .
Jackson ( 9 , pp. 225 , 228 , etc. ) in his studies VOL. LXXIV .
X\gt ; .
34 Mr. W. K. Spencer .
On Structure and [ Mar. 22 , of Palaeozoic Echinoids shows that various genera of these also possess rhomboidal inter-ambulacral plates distally , but these rapidly become polygonal .
Palseodiscus , with its great number of rhomboidal interambulacral plates , shows in this , as in all other respects , very primitive features .
The plates are in several rows radiating from the initial plate in a fanshaped manner ( fig. 1 ) .
It is this arrangement we must regard as ancestral .
The general Asteroid appearance is very suggestive .
Both interambulacral and ambulacral plates are imbricating .
The imbrication obeys the general Echinoid rule , namely , the ambulacral plates imbricate adorally , the interambulacral aborally .
This imbrication also occurs in the Palaeozoic Lepidocentridae and Lepidesthidae , as also in the Echinothuridae .
Jackson ( 9 , p. 237 ) points out that imbrication , since it appears in such widely separated types , is " a variation built upon independent lines .
" The anus is situated in an interambulacrum , whether on the dorsal or ventral surface it is difficult to say , but certainly at a considerable distance from the apex ( Plate 1 , fig. 1 ) .
This is a position peculiar amongst Echinoids to Palseodiscus , and the closely related genus Echinocystites .
It was surrounded by a number of small plates , which gave it a very asteroid appearance .
Gregory ( 5 , p. 132 ) has suggested that the apical plates of Echinoids in general may be derived from the five valvular plates which surround the anus in Echinocystites .
The large number of such plates in Palseodiscus cannot be reconciled with this suggestion .
There is no trace of any apical disc in the specimen examined .
It has been pointed out that Palseodiscus is always compressed in a horizontal direction , and if an apical plate had existed its remains would have been driven into the impression of the lantern of Aristotle and lost .
If the apical disc existed , it did not enclose the anal region either in this form or in Echinocystites .
There is no trace of a Madreporite .
If we judge from its position in Echinocystites , it would have been situated near to the apex , and is lost for the same reason as would be any apical disc .
h.p. Text Fig. 2.\#151 ; a Outer ambulacral plate of ferox ; dotted lines indicate reconstructed portion put in from cast ; b.p. , bilobed pore .
That there were a double series of plates in the ambulacrum had been inferred by Professor Sollas .
The outer series consisted of a number of pairs of long thin plates , which alternate irregularly with one another over the middle line .
They were pierced by bilobed pores situated at the extreme proximal ( mouth ) end of the plate , but 1904 ] Affinities of Palceodiscus and 35 nevertheless distinctly enclosed by it ( fig. 6 ) .
The bilobed pore and its marginal position are primitive conditions .
Echinoids , I shall attempt to show , must have descended from ancestors ( Asteroids ) which possessed a single pore passing between the ambulacral plates .
The Echinoids more than any other Echinoderm depends for its existence upon the strength of its tube feet .
The bifurcation of the tube foot canal by the formation of a double strand of tissue , its arrangement in an arch-like manner , and its enclosure in the plate would strengthen the power of the tube foot considerably .
Palseodiscus shows the beginnings of these characters .
The inner series of these plates in the cast are observed to dip downwards and distally .
They lie in a groove which is partially filled in with sandstone .
The Text Fig. 3.\#151 ; Inner ambnlacral plates of same 5 jt ? .
, plates iii mouth region separating from each other 5 sp.p.9 splayed out portions of plates .
existence of both inner and outer series of plates is confirmed by the series of sections taken .
An examination of the specimen showed that the outer series of plates have suffered much from solution , but are fortunately best preserved over the ambulacral groove , probably because of the greater mass of calcite in this region .
In the series of sections taken the outer series were visible from 1\#151 ; 7 , showing that they had a thickness of mm. The inner series then appeared , and persisted for ^ mm. The outer plates were pressed down over the inner series so that little trace of an ambulacral groove appeared .
It is this displacement combined with solution which has in ill-preserved specimens , and these are the majority , left little or no trace of a distinct inner series .
The evidence of the behaviour of the inner series in the mouth region was quite conclusive , however , as to their individuality .
Here they separate out just as do the ambulacral ossicles forming the mouth of the skeleton of Asteroids .
This D 2 36 Mr. W. K. Spencer .
Structure and [ Mar. 22 , separation , which , is quite distinct , causes the inner series to occupy a position which is incompatible with the view that they are the inturned edges of the outer series of the ambulacral plates .
Traces of the aboral ambulacrum may be seen squeezed through on to the ventral surface .
The ambulacral plates in this region as noticed by Gregory appear much narrower than those of the ventral surface .
Jxtzter Outer Ke\#187 ; r Text Figs. 4 and 5.\#151 ; Portions of Half Pyramid of Palceodiscus ferox .
Fig. 4 , internal view , p.l.y processus labialis ; l.ep.9 linece eminentes pyramidales ; c. , cutaway portion of pyramid .
Fig. 5 , external view ; c.p.y concave outer surface ; r. , ridges on pyramid .
In two of the inter-radii examined were portions of pyramids .
It was found possible to reconstruct the proximal portion of one of these .
The lateral surfaces still preserved the ridges which served for the attachment of the interpyramidal muscles .
They were concave , as they are in the young Echinoid ( Lov^n 11 ) , and thus present another of the embryonic features so peculiar to Palaeodiscus .
The external surface is deeply cut away .
The median elevation forms a well-defined " processus labialis .
" Towards the proximal end of the exterior surface there is a notch , which is continued distally in the substance of the pyramid .
This I cannot find represented in recent Urchins .
The " Linese eminentes pyramidales " ( Val .
) are well defined .
The structure of the teeth in recent Echinoid has been described by Giesbrecht .
Giesbrecht , from a study of the root end , showed that the wings of the tooth arose by the superposition of lamellae , which , as the tooth was examined as it approximated to the mouth , became intimately connected by secondary calcification .
Lov^n ( 11 , p. 9 ) noticed these lamellae in the tooth of the very young Echinoid , and also that these lamellar structures soon disappeared , presumably by secondary calcifications .
The tooth of Palaeodiscus shows embryonic 1904 .
] Affinities of Palceodiscusand Agelacrinus .
features in the distinctness of lamellae through by far the greater portion of its substance , and by the absence of secondary calcifications .
Text Fig. 6 .
Text Fig. 7 .
Text Fig. 6.\#151 ; Section through , tooth of Palceodiscus ferox ; l = lamellae .
Text Fig. 7.\#151 ; Diagrammatic reproduction of cross section of an ambulacrum of Palceodiscus ferox ; o.s. , outer series of plates ; i.s. , inner series .
Text Fig. 8.\#151 ; Diagrammatic reproduction of cross section of an ambulacrum of a Lepidodiscus ( Agelacrinus ) pileus ; f.p. , flooring plate ; sc.p .
, side-covering plate ; ag.amb.gro .
= ambulacral groove .
The carina would seem , as in the other Echinoids , to be formed of dense prisms .
The Edrioasteroidea ( Billings ) , or Thecoidea ( Jaekel ) .
History.\#151 ; The earliest member of this group to come under notice was a form discovered by Dr. Bigsby in Canada and described by Mr. G. B. Sowerby .
Mr. Sowerby compared it to " the arm of an Asterias lying on an Echinoid , " but felt himself unable to determine its near affinities .
Forbes , in 1848 , described an English specimen of the same group under the name of Agelacrinites Buchianus .
Forbes remarks , " One important point is strongly suggested by the structure of the arms and arm grooves in this curious genus , viz. , that it is possible the ambulacral avenues of all Echinoidse are embodied arms , when embodied usually separated by ambulacral plates ; that here we have the latter , but no avenues , for the arms themselves are the avenues freed from the body , consequently that the anomalous genus Palseechinus ( and perhaps Archseocidaris also ) is an intermediate form between Agelacrinites and true Urchins , an abnormal Agelacrinites , so to speak , in which the arms have become embodied .
" Billings , in 1858 , described two species which he calls Edrioaster Bigsbyiand Agelacrinites Dicksoni .
The ambulacral groove of Edrioaster Bigsbyi was composed of two series of oblong Ossicles .
Between the 38 Mr. W. K. Spencer .
' Structure and [ Mar. 22 , ossicles were said to be ambulacra !
pore 's .
This structure offers points of resemblance to that of star-fish .
Billings himself says , " I have placed E. Eigsbyi in the order Asteriadse because the structure appears to me more like that of the star-fishes than those of the Cystidese .
None of the Cystideae have ambulacra whose pores penetrate through the covering of the body , and therefore all such genera as Edrioaster Agelacrinites and Hemicystites belong to a very different division of the Echinodermata .
When we know more of their structure it is probable they will be arranged as a sub-order for which the name Edrioasteridae would be appropriate , as it would suggest their sessile condition on the one hand and on the other their affinity to the Asteriadae .
Schmidt , in 1874 , in his description of Mesites points out the resemblance of Mesites to Edrioaster .
He shows that Mesites has a double series of plates , and that between the upper series of covering plates are pores .
These , however , lead only into the ambulacral groove which is quite closed from the body cavity .
Schmidt on this ground cannot agree that Mesites , at any rate , has any affinities with the Asteridae .
The theory that Agelacrinus and Mesites were connecting links between the Cystideans and the Eleutherozoa was further advanced by Neumayr .
Neumayr ( 16 , p. 420 ) supports his hypothesis by a statement which he attributes wrongly in " Die Stamme des Thierreiches " to J. Muller .
" Wohl weiss man durch die Untersuchungen des grossen Zoologen und Anatomen Johannes Muller , dass in fruher Jugend auch bei den Seesternen die Ambulacralcanale innen liegen , und dass da bei weiterem Wachsthume eine Aenderung in der Art eintritt , dass sich nun erst die definitiven Ambulacral-platten bilden und die Wasser-gefasse vom Innern abschliessen , wahrend der sie nach aussen bedeckende Theil resorbirt wird und verschwindet .
" This double series of plates present in the developing Asteroid is , according to Neumayr , readily capable of interpretation by comparison with the double series of plates in Mesites .
An earlier paper shows that the authority for this statement concerning the developing Asteroid was A. Agassiz .
Professor Ludwig has given a very complete account of the development of Asteroids and kindly answering my inquiry categorically denies Agassiz 's statement .
Schmidt had already exposed the weak point in this theory , namely , that there are no passages in Mesites which would compare to the ambulacral pores of star-fishes .
Mesites has now been definitely relegated to the Diploporite Cystideans .
The theory that Edrioaster and Agelacrinus represent the Eleutherozoic ancestor has however survived , and Bather* claims an independent status for this group as definite ancestors of free-moving Echinoderms .
# * Treatise on Zoology/ Lankester , vol. 3 , u Echinoderma , " and in various other papers .
1904 ] Affinities of Palceodiscusand Agelacrinus .
39 We have seen that Billings demanded pores through the series of ambulacral plates in E. Bigsbyi , and Bather has established this fact , as also that there is present an uppermost series of covering plates .
This demolishes Jaekel 's suggestion ( 8 , p. 45 ) that the plates through which the pores pass might be covering plates .
Whether these pores serve for the passage of ampullae or podia is an open question and we propose to discuss it in the later portions of this paper .
Hall claims to have discovered pores in Agelacrinus .
Various authors have , however , with regard both to Agelacrinus and other genera , given accounts which directly contradict the views expressed above .
Boemer , in 1851 , obtained a cast of Agelacrinus rheanus which led him to surmise that the ambulacral grove was occupied by single flooring plates .
F. B. Meek , 1873 , who described a peculiarly preserved specimen of A. cincinnatiensis says , " The shell ( of the Brachiopod upon which it was sessile ) had separated in such a manner as to take with it the under side of the Agelacrinites , and leave its upper side in the matrix so situated as to expose its inner surface .
The inner side of each arm or ray is here seen to be composed of a single series of quadrangular pieces that are not imbricating .
" Hemicystis latiuscula , described by Jaekel ( 8 , p. 17 ) agrees in structure with the above .
" Die Rinnen werden hier deutlich unterlagert von einer einfache Reihe querverlangerter etwas winklig vorgezogener Plattchen .
" None of these authors discovered in these genera any trace of pores in the ambulacral groove .
Description.\#151 ; The evidence of the structure of the ambulacra of the Edrioasteroidea , brought forward in this paper , is based upon ground sections through specimens of Agelacrinus , especially through a well-preserved specimen of Agelacrinus ( ) pileus ( Hall ) ; as also upon investigations on a uniquely preserved specimen of Agelacrinus cincinnatiensis ( F. Roemer ) .
In all cases when the anal pyramid could not be observed , the anal inter-radius was identified from the fact that the rays adjacent to the anus always curve towards it .
Following the nomenclature of Jaekel , the ambulacrum to the left of the anus would be called I , and the remainder counted clockwise II , III , IV , V. Viewed externally the ambulacra of Lepidodiscus pileus are seen to be roofed over by an alternating series of plates which are shaped like a bent finger , fig. 9 .
These do not completely enclose the groove , there being small interspaces between each covering plate .
Both longitudinal and transverse section show that these plates also form the sides of the groove .
There is no trace of any separate side plates .
We may therefore call this upper series of plates " sidecovering plates .
" There are often slight interspaces between them Mr. W. K. Spencer .
Structure and , , [ Mar. 22 , throughout most of their depth .
An examination of the series of photographs as also the wax models show that no pores are present leading into the interior of the test .
These plates were on an average 13 mm. in thickness , the plates covering the mouth are merely enlarged side covering plates .
They occupy the angles of those inter-radii which border the mouth region .
These jnter-radii are not Text Figs. 9 , 10 , 11 , 12.\#151 ; Progressive views of reconstructed wax model of Lepidodiscus ( Agelacrinus ) pileus ; I , JI , III , IV , V = ambulacra ; s.cp .
, side-covering plates ; m.ai .
, mouth plate of anal inter-radius ; m.cp .
, mouth corner plate ; f.p. , flooring plates .
By error in the figures , the ambulacra have been numbered V , I , II , III , IV instead of I , II , III , IV , V. Fig. 9.\#151 ; Outermost view .
five in number but three , namely those between II and III , III and IV , IV and V. This is because a secondary triradiate symmetry has been imposed upon the primitive pentamerous symmetry of this genus , vide infra .
Two of the mouth-covering plates are of equal size .
They are smaller than the third , which occupies the angle of the anal interradius .
The ambulacral groove is floored by a series of single oblong plates , which stretch across the groove , and show no trace of median suture or pore , figs. 10,11 .
They do not correspond in number to the side covering plates , but are somewhat larger , figs. 10,11 .
Jaekel ( 8 , p. 17 ) has the same 1904 .
] Affinities of Palceodiscus and Agelacrinus .
observation with regard to the flooring plates of Hemicystis .
" Deren Zahl nicht immer genau so gross ist wie die Zahl der Saumplattchen , so dass wohl bisweilen je 2 auf einer solchen Subambulacral-Platte aufsitzen .
" I can find no correspondence in number between the side-covering and the flooring plates .
At times , two side covering plates appear to rest on one flooring plate on one side of the groove , figs. 10 , 11 , but , on the other side , the corresponding plates lie on portions of more than one flooring plate .
This may be due , however , to secondary distortion .
The above account of the structure of the ambulacral groove is confirmed by a study of a specimen of Agelacrinus in which the side-covering plates have been dissolved away along most of Fig. 10.\#151 ; Yiew i mm. removed or 20 sections mm. thick .
the ambulacra .
The flooring plates , which agree precisely with those of A. pileus , have been thus exposed .
They show grooves along their border , which are the articulation of the upper series , Plate 1 , fig. 2 .
The flooring plates enclose the mouth , except in the anal interradius .
In the ground specimen of A. pileus they have been slightly displaced .
They are more naturally preserved in the A. cincinnatiensis examined , Plate 1 , fig. 2 .
The fact that the flooring plates do not enclose the mouth in the anal inter-radius is a necessary consequence of enlargement of this inter-radius .
The plates of the mouth are merely the flooring plates of the ambulacra .
The ambulacra I and Y do not meet in the angle of the anal inter-radius , and consequently the mouth ring cannot be completed by * these plates .
The enlargement of the Mr. W. K. Spencer .
Structure and [ Mar. 22 , anal inter-radius has also produced the secondary fusion of radii I and II , and IY and Y , a phenomenon not confined to Agelacrinus , but one found commonly in the Pelmatozoa .
Jaekel ( 8 , p. 8 ) has called attention to this , " Diese Yerschiebung der Gabelung zwei Strahlen findet aber iiberall bei Pelmatozoen im analen Inter-radius statt , wo sich die Primarporen , das Parietalseptum und der After zwischen zwei Strahlen einschieben .
Dadurch wird die Abgliederungsstelle der Radien I und Y etwas nach den Seiten verschoben .
" The calcification of the plates must be secondary to the location of the internal organs , for these are formed first during ontogeny .
Secondary symmetries in the ambulacral plates are thus readily accounted for .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; View 1 mm. removed or 40 sections ^ mm. thick .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; View 1^ mm* removed dr 60 sections rfe mm. thick .
1904 .
] Affinities of Palceodiscus and Agelacrinus .
43 The mouth ring is further strengthened by plates , which underly the mouth-covering plates .
These occupy the angles between II and III and III and IV .
The third , which underlies the large mouthcovering plate of the anal inter-radius , completes the mouth ring in this region .
It has been somewhat attacked by solution in both cases examined .
The flooring plates of the mouth ring are thicker than those of the remainder of the ambulacra .
No trace of any plates are to be observed underneath them .
This would seem to indicate that the central part of the ventral region of Agelacrinus was occupied by a membrane with calcification weakly , or not at all developed .
A similar appearance has been described in Edrioaster by Forbes and Bather .
Bather has supposed that by the pulling in of this membrane a vacuum would be produced , thus fixing the animal to the sea floor .
No trace of any Madreporite was observed in Agelacrinus .
Jaekel demands the absence of this organ throughout- the Edrioasteroidea .
Bather has , on the contrary , interpreted a structure on the thecal plate near the mouth in the anal inter-radius of Edrioaster as a Madreporite .
Theoretical Conclusions.\#151 ; We have seen that there are two distinct views as to the structure of the ambulacrum in the Edrioasteroidea .
1 .
That which has found its latest supporter in Jaekel asserts that the ambulacral groove possesses single flooring plates .
No openings are present between these , or , if they were present , they served as genital orifices .
2 .
That which is advocated by Dr. Bather , founded upon a study of Edrioaster .
This states that there was a double series of alternate flooring plates .
Between these were openings , through which passed ampullae .
The results of the above investigation shows that Jaekel is correct with respect to the structure of the ambulacral groove in the Agelacrinidse .
There appears no reasonable doubt , however , that Edrioaster possesses a double series of alternating flooring plates , and between these plates are pores .
Dr. Bather has been kind enough to show me an exceptionally well-preserved specimen of Edrioaster Bigsbyi , which leaves no doubt upon this point .
Dr. Bather 's view that through these pores protruded either podia or ampullae , is , however , open to criticism .
The pores are at the extremity of a groove , in such a position that they lie immediately under the hinge of the covering plates .
The groove which leads to the pore opens out gradually , and suggests that it served to carry water to the pore , which would then have a respiratory function .
That some members of the Edrioasteroidea should show respiratory pores , whilst others do not , is in accordance with the structure of the group as a whole .
Jaekel divides the Edrioasteroidea into two sub-groups .
The The-cocystidese , including Edrioaster ; and the Agelacrinidse .
The former are characterised by their firm skeletons , the latter by their imbricating plates .
The forms with firm skeletons would require respiratory 44 Mr. W. K. Spencer .
On Structure and [ Mar. 22 , pores .
The Agelacrinoidea would , on the contrary , present large surfaces of membrane to the surrounding sea-water when they were not in the state of collapse in which they are generally found .
There is very strong evidence that no member of the group , primitive as it is , lay in a direct ancestral line between Pelmatozoa and Eleutherozoa , as advocated by Haeckel and Bather .
No Edrio-asteroid is known which does not possess both covering and flooring plates .
The Asteroids , which lay at the base of the Echinoid stem , as we shall now seek to show , possess only a single series of ambulacral plates .
The assertion of the presence of a double series in the embryo is without foundation .
-It is impossible to suppose that the complicated ambulacrum and firm skeleton of Edrioaster gave birth to the primitive simple ambulacrum and movable skeleton of the Asteroids .
With regard to the relationships between the Asteroids and Echinoids , Johannes Muller remarked in 1853 : " Die Yergleichung eines Seeigel und eines Seesternes war immer ein anziehender Punkt fur die Speculation .
" In this same paper , Muller ( 15 , p. 170 ) draws comparisons which have since become classical .
" Stellen wir uns vor , die Ambulacralplatten des Echinus weichen auseinander , und werden durch Haut vereinigt , umwachsen aber das Ambulacralgefass und den Nerven von unten , so erhalten wir aus dem Echinus die Asterie ; stellen wir uns eine Asterie vor , bei welcher die hautigen Gebilde fiber die Nerven und Gefasse von den Ambulacralplatten aus ossificiren , und lassen wir die Nath der wirbelartigen Fortsatze unter den Gefassen weit klaffen , so erhalten wir aus der Asterie die Yerhaltnisse der Echinen .
Ein dritter Fall ware , dass die Ambulacral-platten zugleich die Yereinigung der Echinen fiber dem Nerve und Gefass erzielen , als die Fortsatze der Asterien entwickeln .
Dieses kommt in der That bei Cidaris am vorderen Theil der Ambulacra vor , wo die Ambulacral-platten an der innern Seite der Porenreihen Fortsatze senkrecht nach innen gegen die Hohle der Schale abschicken , welche von beiden Seiten die Stamme der Ambulacralgebilde zwischen sich nehmen .
" " Ausser Cidaris hat auch Clypeaster rosaceus und altus oder iiberhaupt die Gattung Echinanthus denjenigen Theil der Ambulacralplatten , welcher den vertebralen Fortsatzen der Asteriden analog ist , in der innern Tafel ihrer Ambulacral-platten .
Hier nehmen alle Ambulacral-platten daran Theil und es tritt sogar die Yereinigung von rechts und links durch Nath ein .
Dieser Ambulacralboden liegt , wie bei den Asteriden , unter den Stammen der Ambulacralgefasse und Nerven .
Dagegen ist die aussere Tafel der Ambulacral-platten liber dem Nerven- und Gefasstamme analog der hautigen Bedeckung der Ambulacra der Asteriden .
Damit ist nunmehr sattsam bewiesen , dass in der That der Bau der Ambulacra in den Echiniden und Asteriden ganzlich abweicht und diirfen Cidaris und Echinanthus als der Schliissel zum Yerstandniss dieser Abweichungen angesehen werden .
" 1904 .
] Affinities of Palceodiscus and Agelacrinus .
45 The justice of these observations is strikingly illustrated by the discovery of the double series of plates in Palseodiscus .
The lower series of ambulacral plates in Palseodiscus must be regarded , just as the auricles of Echinus and the ambulacral processes of Cidaris , as the representatives of the ambulacral plates of the Asteroids .
Lov4n ( 11 , p. 38 ) has shown " that the auricles of the Ectobranchiates are seen to adhere to the ambulacra as distinct and independent parts joined mainly to them by means of articulation , and to increase by their own growth , both surfaces , the auricular and the ambulacral , during the constant fluctuations of absorption and renewal mutually maintaining their firm connection .
" This statement shows that embryology justified the homologies drawn above , and that we have in the embryo two distinct series of plates , the outer of which are the true Echinoid plates , the inner which become auricles are the Asteroid ambulacrals .
Seinon and Lang have suggested that the true Echinoid plates may be derived by the overgrowth of the adambulacral plates of Asteroids , a view which would support this theory .
We must conclude , therefore , that whilst a double series of plates , namely , an outer series peculiar to the Echinoid , perhaps derived from the adambulacrals of Asteroids , and an inner series homologous with the plates of an Asteroid occur in the ambulacrum of all the Echinoids , a complete double series occurs in Palseodiscus , which is therefore entitled to be placed at the base of the Echinoid stem .
It is not alone in the structure of the ambulacra that Palseodiscus shows itself to be the most primitive of Echinoids , for we have seen that the inter-ambulacral areas present many ideally primitive Echinoid structures .
That the transition must have been from Asteroid to Echinoid and not vice versed , the possession of a lantern of Aristotle by the latter forms is quite sufficient proof .
MacBride ( 12 , p. 316 ) in a recent paper has adduced embryological evidence to derive the Echinoids from the Asteroids ; he shows : " That in the just metamorphosed sea urchin the humped dorsal surface is greater in extent than the flat ventral one , and the radial canals extend straight outwards from the water vascular ring and end in prominent terminal tentacles , both of which are Asteroid features .
" MacBride also remarks upon the " highly developed Pedicellarise amongst the Echinoidea .
" Amongst Asteroidea they are by no means universal , and numerous transitional forms are found showing their origin from the spines ; in a word , pedicellarise have been developed amongst the Asteroidea and inherited ready-made , so to speak , by the Echinoidea .
As to the Pelmatozoan ancestor of the Eleutherozoa it is better to leave that in the realms of controversy , Asteroids are known from the Cambrian period , and it is very probable that this ancestor was pre-Cambrian .
46 On Palceodiscus and Agelacrinus .
LITERATURE .
1 .
Bather .
1898-99 .
" Studies in Edrioasteroidea .
" 1 Geol .
Mag 'NS dec. IY , vol. 5 , 6 .
1901 .
" What is an Echinoderm ?
" ' J. London Coll. Soc. , ' vol. 8 .
1900 .
" A Treatise on Zoology , Part III , The Echinoderma .
" 2 .
Billings , E. 1858 .
( " On the Cystideae of the Lower Silurian Rocks of Canada .
' * ) * Canadian Organic Remains , ' dec. Ill , pp. 9 , 74 .
3 .
Forbes , E. 1848 .
( " On the Cystideae of the Silurian Rocks of the British Islands .
" ) * Mem. Geol .
Sury .
, Great Brit. , ' vol. 2 , Part 2 .
4 .
Giesbrecht , W. 1880 .
" Der feinere Bau der Seeigelzahne .
" 'Morph .
Jahrbuch , ' yol .
6 .
5 .
Gregory .
1897 .
" On Echinocystis and Palaeodiscus .
" 4 Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , * vol. 53 , pp. 123-136 .
6 .
Haeckel .
1896 , " Die Amphorideen und Cystoideen , etc. " 'Festschr .
fur Gegenbaur , ' No , 1 .
7 .
Hall .
1847 , 1852 , 1859 .
' Palaeontology of New York , yol .
1 , 2 , 3 , in Natural History of New York .
' 1858 .
' Report on the Geological Survey of the State of Iowa , vol. 1 , Part II , Palaeontology.* 8 .
Jaekel , O. 1899 .
' Stammesgeschichte der Pelmatozoen , * vol. 1 .
9 .
Jackson , R. T. 1896 .
" Studies of Palaeechinoidea .
" 'Bull .
Geol .
Soc. .
Amer .
, ' vol. 7 , pp. 171 , 246 .
10 .
Lang .
1896 , ' Text Book of Comp. Anat .
, ' English Translation , vol. 2 , p. 355 .
11 .
Loven .
1892 .
' Echinologica Bihang .
Svensk .
Yet .
Akad .
Hand .
, * vol. 18 , Afd .
IV , No. 1 .
12 .
MacBride .
1903 .
" The Development of Echinus Esculentus .
" ' Phil. Trans. , * Series B , vol. 195 , pp. 285\#151 ; 327 .
13 .
Meek , F. B. 1873 .
' Ohio Pal .
, ' vol. 2 .
14 .
Miller and Faber .
1892\#151 ; 93 .
' Cincin .
Soc. Not .
Hist. Journ. , ' vol. 15 .
15 .
Muller , Joh. 1854 .
" Ueber den Bau der Echinodermen .
" ' Abhand .
d. Kgl .
Akad .
d. Wissensch .
, Berlin.* 16 .
Neumayr , M. 1881 .
" Morphologische Studien fiber fossile Echinodermen .
" ' Sitz .
Ber .
d.k.k. Akad .
d. Wiss .
in Wien , ' vol. 84 .
1889 .
' Die Stamme des Thierreiches , ' vol. 1 .
17 .
Roemer .
1851 .
" Beitrage sir Kenntniss der Fossilen Fauna des Devonischen Gebirges am Rhein.* ' 'Verh .
d. Natur .
Hist. Ver. f. Rheinlande und Westfalen , * vol. 8 , p. 372 .
18 .
Salter .
1857 .
( " On some New Palaeozoic Starfishes .
" ) ' Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , * Ser. 2 , vol. 20 .
19 .
Schmidt , F. B. von , 1874 .
" Ueber einige never und wenig bekannte BaltischSilurische Petrefacten .
" ' Mem , Acad. Imp .
Sci. , ' St. Petersburg ( 7 ) , vol. 21 , pp. 34 and 35 .
* 20 .
Sollas , W. J. 1889 .
" On Silurian Echinoidea and Ophiuroidea .
" ' Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , ' vol. 45 , 1889 , pp. 692\#151 ; 715 .
1903 .
' Phil. Trans. , * Series B , vol. 196 .
21 .
Sowerby , G. B. ' Zoological Journal , ' vol. 2 .
22 .
Thomson , C. Wyville .
1881 .
( " On a new Palaeozoic Group of Echinodermata .
" ) ' Edin , New Phil. Journ. , ' N.S. , vol. 13 , pp. 106\#151 ; 117 .
23 .
Wriglit .
" British Fossil Echinodermata of the Oolitic Formations , " vol. 2 ; 11 The Asteroidea and Ophiuroidea .
" ' Palaeontogr .
Soc. , ' 1863\#151 ; 1880 .
24 .
Zittel , K. A. 1879 .
'Handbuchder Palaeontologie , 1 .
Band , Palaeozoologie .
' Spencer .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. Plate 1 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Cast of Palceodiscus ferox in the Oxford Museum ; An = Anus .
UL 1S m.c.p. -4n .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Upper view of Agelacrinus cincinnatiensis iri the Oxford Museum J , II , III , IV , Vi are Ambulacra ; An = Anus ; F.p.y flooring plates s.c.p. , side covering plates ; m.c.p , , mouth corner plate .

