392 Prof. M. C. Potter .
On the Parasitism of [ Apr. 7 " On the .
Parasitism of Pseudomonas destructans ( Potter ) " Bv M. C. Potter , M.A. , P.L.S. , Professor of Botany in the University of Durham College of Science , Newcastle-upon-Tyne .
Communicated by Sir Michael Poster , K.C.B. , Sec. E.S. Eeceived April 7 , \#151 ; Eead June 12,1902 .
Since the publication of my paper upon a " Bacterial Disease of the Turnip , in which the existence of both a cytase and a toxin secreted by the bacterium was proved , I have pursued my investigations further , studying the action of the cytase and toxin upon the living cells , and have succeeded in tracing the passage of the bacterium into the cells through the cell-wall .
I think it will be sufficient for me to state that the strictest methods of sterilisation have been carefully observed throughout the work , and all sections of turnip were prepared as described in my former paper .
To observe the action of P. destructans upon a living cell , a small section of sound turnip was suspended in a hanging drop upon a Strieker 's warm-stage , the lower opening of which was closed with a plate of glass cemented to the stage , a little water being introduced immediately before placing the cover-slip in position .
The thermometer enabled me to tell the temperature of the preparation ( which varied between 15 ' and 20 ' C. ) , and the two tubes leading into the central cavity supplied the requisite amount of air for the growth of the bacterium .
Into the hanging drop a small fragment of turnip , inoculated with a pure culture of P. , was introduced before the cover-slip was inverted over the Strieker 's stage .
The effect of introducing the Pseudomonas was most striking and manifested a rapidity of action for which I was hardly prepared .
The swelling of the wall could be recognised almost immediately , very soon the position of the middle lamella became visible as a much darker line , and contraction of the protoplasm quickly set in .
To take one particular case , a section was mounted at 10.30 A.M. and a cell selected for observation , which was uninjured by the razor and at the same time near the edge of the section .
A wall common to this cell and the adjacent one was measured and found to be 2*5 in thickness ; at 10.45 the bacteria were hovering round the wall ; at 11.0 the wall measured 4*3 / / , and the track of the middle lamella was distinctly defined ; at 11.20 the wall measured 6*5 fx .
at 11.45 the two parts of the cell commenced to separate , and at 12 o'clock a gap of 2*5 [ x separated the two walls .
The first signs of contraction of the protoplasm appeared at 11.15 , and by 12 o'clock all the protoplasm had separated from the cell-wall # ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' toI .
67 .
1902 .
] Pseudomonas destructans { Potter ) .
393 and formed an irregular bag in the centre of the cell .
This contraction was not due to mere plasmolysis , but to the death of the cell under the action of the toxin , as the protoplasm never returned to its original position when placed in water .
_ Thus within an hour and a-half of the introduction of the Pseudomonas , the cell was dead and its walls well advanced in a process of disintegration .
After this the changes were less rapid , and , beyond a slight further separation of the cells , a more watery and rotten appearance of the cell-wall was all that could be observed .
Meanwhile the adjacent cells at the edge of the section were all being attacked in a precisely similar manner ; contraction of the protoplasm set in at 11.30 , and the decay could be observed gradually spreading inwards . .
_ , , , The original cell was kept under observation for some days and the development watched .
The bacteria continued swarming around the cell-walls , and next morning ( by which time the cells had been destroyed several layers deep ) many bacteria had come to rest in contact with the wall , their long axis being perpendicular to its surface ; and one or two had the appearance of being embedded in the wall as if in the act of boring their way through .
I next attempted to watch a single individual in the hope of seeing it penetrate the wall : this at first seemed rather a hopeless task , but ultimately 1 was fortunate in fixing upon an individual which was just coming to rest .
This bacterium was then kept continuously in view , and , after assuming a position perpendicular to the wall , it could be distinctly seen s ow y forcing its way through until finally it emerged into the cell-cavity .
The penetration of the wall was subsequently observed on several occasions , and numerous individuals could be seen in all stages of the process .
The time required varied with the thickness of the wall , but on an average occupied about 3 hours .
To give a special instance , a particular bacterium which was found to be just entering the wa at 11.30 a.m. emerged at 2.10 p.m. ( fig. 1 ) .
ElO 1 \#151 ; Pseudomonas destructans passing through a cell-wall .
The bacterium was observed to enter the cell-wall at 11.80 a.m. ( A ) and to emerge into the cell at 2.10 p.m. ( B ) .
( Hanging drop 5 Zeitz obj .
7 , oc .
4 .
) The observation of the movements of the bacteria , though difficult and very trying , was yet considerably furthered by the different re394 Prof. M. C. Potter .
On Parasitism of [ Apr. 7 tangibility of the cell-wall and the bacteria , this difference enabling the course of the bacteria to be distinctly followed.* Important evidence that P. destrudans has the power of perforating the cell-wall was also afforded by the well-known method of paraffin sections .
Small sterile pieces of turnip were inoculated with a pure culture of P. destrudans , and after 12 hours were found to be partially rotten .
These were then fixed in Muller 's and also in Flemming 's fluid , washed , dehydrated , and embedded in paraffin .
The sections were then cut , floated in water , and fixed to the slide by means of the white of egg .
The paraffin was dissolved in turpentine .
The slides were next placed in absolute alcohol , and then in gradually decreasing strengths of alcohol , for the purpose of staining .
When fixed in Flemming 's solution , it was found that the bacteria did not readily stain , and for this reason Muller 's was preferred .
In staining the sections a further problem presented itself , namely , how to differentiate between the cell-wall and the bacterium .
After numerous trials it was found effective to employ a weak aqueous solution of ruthenium-red , which was first allowed to act , the cell-walls being stained by this means but not the bacteria : the sections were then washed in water and stained with Ziehl 's carbol-fuchsin or other aniline dyes .
Subsequently ruthenium-red followed by Lowit 's method for staining flagella was found to give the best results .
This method of fixing and double staining distinctly differentiated the cell-wall and bacteria , and showed the latter fixed in the actual process of perforating the wall , and various stages of penetration could be distinguished ( fig. 2 ) .
These results confirm my observation of the penetration of the wall by P. destrudans .
An organism which is thus capable of secreting a powerful cytase and toxin , producing such a remarkable effect in destroying living plant cells , and which subsequently has the power of perforating the cell-wall and entering the cell-cavity , must certainly be regarded as producing a true plant disease .
Indeed the parasitic action of this bacterium upon living tissues is exactly comparable with that of certain of the parasitic fungi , though differences in detail are naturally presented from the different character of the organisms .
According to my previous observations , an attack of P. could always be traced to a wound .
I have found that this bacterium has no power to penetrate the cuticle of the mature epidermis .
A number of blocks of turnip cut with the usual precautions , and to-include a portion of the uninjured epidermis , were inoculated on the internal parenchyma , placed in sterile plugged test-tubes , and incubated at 30 ' C. for five days .
At the conclusion of this period the pieces of * It might be objected that the cells in the hanging drop were not under normal conditions , and thus their vitality might be impaired , but no such objection can bo raised in the case of the cells of the blocks employed for the paraffin sections .
1902 .
] Pseudomonas destructans 395 turnip were quite rotten , but the cuticle remained intact , and could be readily separated as a fine membrane .
The experiment was also tried upon leaves and young shoots ; in this case I employed no sterilising agent which would have been liable to kill the very young epidermal cells ' A small portion of turnip about the size of a pins head , rotten through the action of P. destructans , was placed on the umn-iured surface of a number of mature leaves , and also upon very young ones exposed by removing the outer leaves at the growing points , both sets being kept damp at the temperature of 30 C. After 5 days no sign of decay could be detected upon the mature leaves , Fig. 2.\#151 ; Stages in the perforation of the cell-wall by Pseudomonas At A and B the bacterium is seen passing into the cell from an inter space .
( Paraffin sections ; 1/ 12 oil immersion .
Compensating oc .
8 .
) but in the young ones the result was very different .
These being in a growing condition , and possessing little or no cuticle , offered but a feeble resistance , and after the interval of 5 days had become quite rotten . .
The old and fully developed cuticle is apparently proof against the action of the enzymes excreted by P. destructans , but this parasite can readily effect an entrance into its host through the undeveloped epidermis of young and tender structures .
, This bacterium is incapable of manipulating the hard and tough rind of the sound turnip , but when brought in contact with a wounded surface it at once flourishes as a saprophyte upon the remains ot the injured cells ; very soon the number of individual bacteria becomes VOL , LXX , 2 E 396 Parasitism of Pseudomonas destructans { Potter ) .
[ Apr 7 largely increased , each one contributes its share of toxin and cytase and in a very short time these products have sufficiently accumulated to kill the first cell .
With the death of its protoplasm the cell-contents are liberated , and an additional supply of nutriment is thus provided .* the bacteria continue to multiply , cytase and toxin continue to be set free , and thus each cell succumbs in turn .
It is not , however until the protoplasm has been killed and the cell-wall very much softened that the bacteria have the power of perforating the walls and passing into the cell-cavity .
It would hardly be supposed that a single bacterium , through its own excretions , could soften the wall and pierce it at one definite point after the manner of a fungus germ-tube .
The extreme minuteness of the bacteria and the rapidity of their multiplication lead them to act , as it were , in concert , and the wall becomes softened by the cumulative action of many bacteria before the penetration of a single individual .
A comparison of the parasitism of Botrytis cinerea as demonstrated by the recent investigations of Nordhausenf presents an exact parallel .
He has shown that the spore of this fungus excretes a powerful toxin in its initial stages of germination before any trace of the germ-tube can be detected .
Its manner of effecting an entrance into a host-plant is first to kill the cell by the emission of the toxin ; the germ-tube then penetrates the dead cell and is nourished saprophytieally upon it * with the vigour thus gained it destroys the neighbouring cells and passes from one to another without further difficulty .
The fungus hypha has the power of perforating the cuticle , but only in young ?
nd tender structures ; old and hardened membranes could only be entered when the cuticle had been injured , or when it had gained strength by special saprophytic nutrition .
Whether in the case of P. destmicta the toxin or cytase is the first excretory product I cannot say ; the latter produces the first visible effect , and doubtless it prepares the way for a more rapid action of the toxin .
But this is immaterial ; though differing , as we have seen , in detail , the behaviour of destructans and B. cinerea is the same in principle .
The main point is established that this bacterium has the power of destroying the living cells of the turnip , and , subsisting upon their dead contents , continues to work its way through the host , and it thus acts in precisely the same manner as one acknowledged parasitic fungus .
How far this kind of parasitism may be typical of bacterial diseases generally remains to be proved .
Another form of Pseudo* A proof of the escape of the eell-sap was afforded by subjecting cells with a coloured sap to the action of this bacterium , in a hanging drop , when the coloured sap could be detected slowly percolating outwards through the cell-wall .
+ M. Nordhausen , .
" Beitrage zur Biologic parasitarer Pilze , " 'Jahrbiicher fur wissenschaftliche Botanik , ' vol. 33 , 1899 .
1902 .
] Influence of Carbon Dioxide on , etc. 397 moms producing a brown rot ( not to be confused with P. campestris , E. F. Smith ) , which I am at present studying , works m a totally different manner ; its action is very much slower , and the rapid swelling of the cell-wall , as described above , is not a conspicuous feature .
u 'pjjg Influence of Varying Amounts of Carbon Dioxide in the Air on the Photosynthetic Process of Leaves and on the Mode of Growth of Plants .
" By Horace T. Brown , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and F. Escombe .
B.Sc. , F.L.S. Received April 28 , Bead May 29 .
1902 .
/ [ Plates 5\#151 ; 10 .
] In a paper recently laid before this Society dealing with the physical processes which regulate the entry of atmospheric carbon dioxide into the leaves of plants* we incidentally described a series of experiments relating to the rate of absorption of dilute gaseous carbon dioxide by surfaces of solutions of caustic alkali , when air containing definite small amounts of this gas is drawn over the liquid .
Contrary to what might be expected from the perfect absorbing nature of the solution , and the known laws of gaseous diffusion , the amount of C02 absorbed by unit area of the liquid surface in unit time ceases sensibly to increase when a comparatively low velocity of the moving air current has been reached .
This , however , only holds good when the proportion of C02 in the air stream is maintained quite constant , any slight variation in the amount at once affecting the rate of absorption .
On investigation it was found that for dilutions of carbon dioxide lying between 0-6 part and 6 parts per 10,000 of air , the rate of absorption of the carbon dioxide is strictly proportional its partial pressure , f In determining the rates of gaseous diffusion of atmospheric carbon dioxide through multiperforate diaphragms extended over chambers containing perfect absorbents , the same relations between partial pressure of the gas and its absorption were found to hold good : under these conditions the amount of carbon dioxide passing through the * ' Phil. Trans. , 'B , 1900 , vol. 193 , p.278 .
' " ; _ t So accurately is this the case that the process , which is described in detail in the above-mentioned communication , may be used for determining the varying amounts of COa in air without the necessity of measuring the volume of air which passes through the apparatus .
It is merely necessary to pass the air over the .
absorbing surface at a sufficient rate to ensure maximum absorption , and to compare this amount of absorption in a given time with that produced from air of a known content of carbon dioxide , a process of standardisation which is done once for all with the apparatus .
The ratios of the absorptions give at once the ratios of the partial pressures of the C02 in the two cases .

