On the Culicidce India , \amp ; c. \#171 ; \#163 ; short Description of the Culiciche of India , with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
" By Fred .
Y. Theobald , M.A. , F.E.S. Communicated by E. Bay Lankester , F.B.S. Deceived December 10 , 1901 , \#151 ; Bead January 23 , 1902 .
[ Plate 5 .
] The following account has been drawn up at Professor Lankester 's request with a view to facilitating the work of investigation of malaria in British India .
It includes all the known species of Culicidse found in continental India .
Singalese and Malayan species are not recorded , but probably several of them wull be found in India .
The species previously described are here only referred to briefly , sufficient characters only being given to enable the identity of the Indian species being made ; for this purpose tables have also been drawn up Full descriptions , references , \amp ; c. , will be found in the " Monograph of the Culicidm of the World , " published by the Trustees of the British Museum ( Natural History ) .
The following genera are recorded from India : Meigen .
Toxorhyncliites , Theobald ; MTheobald ; Theobald .
Armigeres , Theobald ; Culex , L. ; Arribalzaga j Panoplites , Theobald ; jEdeomyia , Theobald ; and Arribalzaga .
In all forty-five species of Culicidse are known , and one Lorethra ( iC .
Asiatica ) , which is a non-piercing-mouthed genus , scarcely tenable in the family Culicidse .
This number will probably be doubled in a few years .
At presen we have no records of Sabethes , Psorop Megarhinus , Janthmosoma , JEdes , and several other genera .
and others occur in woods and forests .
At present we seem mainly o have received collections of household forms and species found m the immediate neighbourhood of man , from the Indian continent .
It is necessary that other genera than Anopheles , Stegomyia , an Culex should be experimented with in connection with malarial fevei , yellow fever , Filariasis , \amp ; c. , and that all species of the various genera should be dealt with .
There is no reason , if only certain species ol Anopheles act as carriers of malarial parasites , why some species o Culex , Stegomyia , Panoplites , \amp ; c. , should not act in the same way , whilst others of them do not .
For this reason , all the Indian Culicidre are here recorded for reference .
Filariasis is carried not only by Culex , hut we know also by certain Anopheles and Panoplites , and possibly further experiments will show the same for malaria and other diseases .
It will be noticed that five European species occur in India ( fasciato , mimeticus , spathipalpis , cantans , and 368 Mr. F. V. Theobald .
On the Culicidce of India , No doubt others , as C. pipiens , A. \amp ; c. , will be found on further search being made .
The most interesting is the presence of C. cgntans in South India .
Genus Anopheles Table of Indian Anopheles .
A. Metatarsi and tarsi banded , a. Posterior tarsi pure white .
( 3 .
Last three hind tarsi and most of the first white .
y. Abdomen densely scaly , pu n. sp. yy .
Abdomen not densely scaly .
Costa with three small white spots ; wings very dark ; fringe at apex black , fuliginosus , Giles .
Costa with seven alternate black and yellow spots ; fore metatarsus banded in middle .
Legs slightly spotted .
Jamesii , Theobald .
( 3(3 .
Last two hind tarsi white .
Wings jet black , with five white costal spots and anapical spot .
Theobaldi , Giles .
f3(3(3 .
Last hind tarsus white .
Legs speckled and banded , maculatus , Theobald , aa .
Posterior tarsi not pure white .
S. Costa with two pale spots .
i. Palpi densely scaled and banded .
Cross-veins close together ; base of 1st sub-marginal .
cell not under apex of the sub-costal , pale costal spots | small , sinensis , Wiedemann .
Cross-veins far apart ; base of 1st sub-marginal distant !
from end of sub-costal ; apical fringe pale .
Sub-sp .
annularis , Yan der Wulp .
| Cross-veins as above , but base of 1st sub-marginal cell 1 lies just under the end of the sub-costal .
Indiensis , Theobald .
I Near annularis , but the wing-scales less elongated , and a ) black apical fringe and pale patch at end of lower 1 branch of 5th vein , nigerrimus , Giles .
ii .
Palpi densely scaled , but unbanded .
barhirostris , Yan der Wulp .
J 88 .
Costa with more than two pale spots , e. Legs with basal pale bands , gigas , Giles , ee .
Logs with apical pale bands , legs speckled .
metaboles , n. sp. 1 fee .
Legs with apical and basal banding .
Eossii , Giles , eeee .
Legs unbanded ; wing fringe with three pale spots .
with Descriptions of Nevy Sp of 369 Palpi with two narrow white rings and a minute white tip .
culicifacies , Giles = Listoni , Giles = Theobald .
Wing fringe with more than three pale spots .
Palpi with two broad apical white bands , and a third narrow one .
Christophn .
sp. Palpi with a black tip .
, Liston .
" " " " " .
Legs speckled and banded , abdomen densely scaled , two eye-like thoracic spots .
Kochii , Donitz .
ii .
Costa uniformly colored .
Femora with a white band .
Lindesayii , Giles .
Anopheles pulcherrimus .
n. sp. 1 Thorax ashy-brown with frosty grey and very pale ochraceous scales , unadorned , except for two narrow dark lines on the posterior half .
\#166 ; Abdomen densely covered with frosty and pale ochraceous scales , darker basal bands and distinct lateral apical tufts of black scales ; venter and sides mostly white scaled .
Wings with the fringe mostly wale , with seven more or less distinct dark patches ; costal border with four large black spots , and a few small ones on the yellow-scaled veins .
Legs ashy-grey , the fore and mid tarsi and tibiae with apical white bands ; in the hind legs , all the tarsi white , except the base of the first , which is black ; a large white spot , nearly a band , near the apex of the femora .
Ungues equal and simple .
$ Head densely clothed with broad upright forked scales , creamy j , white in front , rich ochraceous behind ; with a dense tuft of white hairs projecting forwards ; antennae dark brown , with tufts of white scales |on the joints , verticillate hairs white ; palpi densely scaly , covered I with brown scales and four prominent white rings , the broadest being I the apical one .
Thorax brown to ashy-brown , covered with broad , fiat , spindle-I shaped grey scales , giving it a frosty appearance .
Some of these scales I have a slight ochraceous tinge in some lights , three distinct tufts of I long and some short white scales projecting forwards over the head ; I thoracic hairs pale golden ; scutellum brown , with similar scales to the I mesonotum , and pale golden border-bristles may be seen when held in I one direction , black when held in another ; metanotum brown ; pleurae I densely white scaled .
( When held in certain lights two dark lines I show on the posterior part of the mesonotum , due to two dark lines I on the denuded surface .
) Abdomen black , densely clothed with flat S scales , the base of each segment nude and thus black , then follows a I row of white scales , the remainder rich ochraceous ; at the sides of the I apical end of each segment is a tuft of rather long flat black scales ; \#166 ; border-bristles pale ; venter black , with flat white scales .
Legs with 370 Mr. F. V. Theobald .
On the Culicidce of India , pale bands ; fore legs with the femora and tibiae grey beneath , with a few brown scales scattered above , metatarsi and first two tarsi with broad apical white bands , last two tarsi and bases of the others dark-brown , ungues equal and simple j mid legs much the same , but the femora dark towards the apex , with a large white spot near the apex , which is black ; apex of tibiae , metatarsi and first two tarsals white !
last two deep brown , ungues equal and simple .
In the hind legs the femora and tibiae are much as in the mid , the apex of the metatarsus is white , and the whole of the tarsi except a narrow black band at the base of the first joint ; ungues small , equal and simple .
Wings ( Plate 5 , fig. 2 ) with the veins mostly clothed with pale creamy scales , with four large black costal spots and two small basal ones , the apical , second and fourth black costal spots extend evenly on to the first long vein , the third has a large median and a small dark spot at each end ; there are also small black spots on the veins as follows:\#151 ; one at the base of the first fork-cell , one at the base and another at the apex of the third long vein ; two on each branch , and three on the stem of the second fork-cell ; three on the upper branch and one at the apex of the lower branch of the fifth long vein , and another at its base ; three on the sixth ; the fringe is mostly dark with seven pale patches ; halteres pale ochraceous .
Length.\#151 ; 4'5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Lahore , India .
Observations , described from three specimens sent by Captain James , I.M.S. , and Drs. Christophers and Stephens.\#151 ; It is a very well defined and beautiful species , closely related to A. Kochii , Donitz , but quite easily separated from it by the white hind tarsi , the absence of thoracic ocelli , and by the wing ornamentation .
The \lt ; $ is not known .
The type has been deposited in the British Museum ( Not .
Hist. ) collection .
The name was proposed by the collectors .
Anopheles fuliginosus .
( Giles .
) A. Jamesii , Liston .
'Handbook of Gnats , ' p. 160 ( 1900 ) , Giles ; 'Mono Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 132 ( 1901 ) , Theobald ; ' Ind. Med. Gaz .
, ' Dec. , 1901 , p. 441 ( \#151 ; Jamesii ) , Liston .
Thorax slaty black , with scattered flat spindle-shaped scales ; legs dark brownish-black , a pale band near the apex of the femora , a white apical band to the metatarsi and first two fore tarsi ; the last three and apex of the first hind tarsi white ; the legs never spotted .
with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
371 I The costa of the wing is densely black scaled , with four white more or less prominent spots , and often two smaller ones , the first long vein with either five or six white spots ; veins mostly dark scaled , and the fringe has a pale spot where each vein joins the border .
I Length.\#151 ; 3-5 to 4*2 mm. I Localities.\#151 ; Madras ; Quilon ; Punjaub ; Calcutta ; Behar ; Bengal ; Dacca ; Mukerian ; Hosiarpur ; Sambalpur ( C.P. ) ; Ellichpur .
Observations.\#151 ; Very closely related to A. Desv .
, which Lieutenant-Colonel Giles informs me also occurs in India .
A light variety , described as var .pallida('Mono .
Culic./ 1 , 134 ) , occurs in Madras .
Captain Liston has described this insect as a new species , M. Jamesii ; had this insect been new , the name could not stand , as I had previously employed it for the following species .
Anopheles Jamesii .
( Theobald .
) 'Mono .
Cuboid./ 1 , 134 ( 1901 ) .
Thorax brown , with ashy-grey and creamy-curved scales .
Abdomen dark brown , with golden hairs and golden-brown scales on the last few segments .
Palpi black , with snow-white rings , and white apical joint .
Legs brown ; fore femora and tibiae more or less spotted ; fore metatarsus apically banded and also with an indistinct median , first and second tarsi apically banded , and in the mid legs the metatarsus and first two tarsi apically banded ; hind legs with femora and tibiae with an apical white spot , last three tarsi white , and also the apex of the first .
Costa with four large and two small dark spots .
Length.\#151 ; 3 to 3*5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Quilon , Travancore ; Ceylon ; Deccan .
Observations.\#151 ; A small species , easily told from the other Indian species of this group by the faint mid banding of the fore metatarsi and the more or less speckled femora and tibiae .
Closely related to A. fuli-ginosus , but may be easily told from it by the above characters .
It is much smaller than the former species .
I have only seen it from the south of India and Deccan .
The male at present is unknown .
Anopheles Theobaldi .
( Giles .
) ' Into .
Mo. Mag./ p. 198 ( 1901 ) .
Thorax sooty-black , with broad lines of white scales , two median and two lateral .
Abdomen sooty , nude , with brownish hairs .
Palpi black , with white apical joint and three small white rings .
Legs brindled with white scales and a large sub-apical white patch on the femora ; tibiae and first tarsal joints white ringed , especially on the mid legs , last two hind tarsi all white .
Wings jet black , with the costa 372 Mr. F. Y. Theobald .
On Gulicidce of India , interrupted by five white spots and an apical spot ; fringe with pale patches where the veins join the borders ; veins mainly dark scaled hut with pale areas .
Length.\#151 ; 3-5 to 4 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Ellichpur , Behars ; Shahjahanpur , N.W.P. Observations .
-This species can at once be told by the last two tarsi of the hind legs only being white .
The female only known .
Anopheles maculatus.(Theobald .
) 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 171 ( 1901 ) .
Thorax slaty-grey , with darker longitudinal lines and snowy-white scales ; abdomen black , with yellowish hairs , very dense apically , giving the apex a dense yellow tinge .
Palpi black scaled , apical joint white , also base and apex of the penultimate and apex of the others .
Legs with femora , tibiae and metatarsi banded with pale yellow ; fore and mid tarsi with narrow yellow bands , hind tarsi with broad white ones , last joint pure white .
Wings with four large and two small black costal spots ; veins mostly pale scaled with small black spots ; fringe with pale spots where the veins join the border .
Male palpi biown , apical joint dilated , white on one side and a small white spot on the other side near the base ; apex of penultimate joint -white , and another pale ring towards the base of the palp .
Length.\#151 ; 3-5 to 4 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Lahore ; Punjaub ( Christophers ) ; Hong Kong ( Rees ) .
Observations.\#151 ; Described from specimens from Hong Kong .
Dr. Christophers also sends specimens .
Easily distinguished by the last hind tarsal only being white .
Captain James , I.M.S. , sent me notes on the larvae of this species from Hong Kong , the larvae being found in the shallow pools of marshy ground on the granite soil near Hong Kong .
Anopheles Sinensis .
( Wiedemann .
) ' Aussereurop .
Zweifliig .
Insek .
, ' p. 547 ( 1818 ) ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 137 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax slaty-grey , with purplish longitudinal stripes and narrow pale golden scales and minute dark specks .
Abdomen brownish-black and testaceous , with long golden hairs and traces of paler apical borders .
Legs brown , paler below ; tibiae and tarsi with either apical or apical and basal pale bands , except the last two of the fore and mid legs .
Palpi densely scaled with dark brown scales , apex white , and with other white bands .
Costa dark brown , with two large yellow spots .
with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
373 1 Length.\#151 ; 5 mm. I Habitat.\#151 ; Calcutta ; Madras ; Formosa ; China .
I Observations.\#151 ; This is the type of a group of closely-related mosquitoes which differ mainly in the position of the cross-veins and fork cells .
These I have separated as sub-species .
The following occur in India:\#151 ; Sub-species annularis .
( Van der Wulp .
) = A. vanus , Walker .
I Notes Leyden Museum , ' 6 , p. 249 , V. d. Wulp ; 'Proc .
Linn. Soc. , I Lond. , ' 4 , p. 91 , Walker ( 1860 ) ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 142 , Theo-I bald ( 1901 ) .
This sub-species is like A. sinensis , but the cross-veins are further lapart , and the costal spots smaller , and the palpi and proboscis rather more scaly .
There is no pale patch in the wing fringe where the [ lower branch of the fifth vein joins the border , and the majority of specimens are much smaller than the type .
There is a considerable [ amount of variation in regard to the leg banding and the banding in I the palpi .
s Length.\#151 ; Female , 4 to 5 mm. ; male , 3*8 to 4'5 mm. Habitat\#151 ; Madras ; Sambalpur , Central Provinces ; Straits SettleIments .
Sub-species Indiensis .
( Theobald .
) Fork cells much longer than in the type ; the base of the first sub-marginal being close to the first costal spot , close to the junction of | sub-costal and costal .
Fringe pale at the lower branch of the fifth long vein , whilst the cross-veins resemble most nearly those of A. \ annularis ( type ) .
Habitat.\#151 ; Madras .
Sub-species nigerrimus .
( Giles.- ) 'Hnd .
Bk .
Gnats , ' p. 161 ( 1900 ) , Giles ; ' Mono .
Culieid .
, ' 1 , p. 14o ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Near to annularis , but there is a pale patch at the end of the lower branch of the fifth long vein , and the apical fringe is black .
Habitat.\#151 ; Calcutta ; NainiTal ; Lahore ; Travancore ; Dacca .
Note._There is a slight difference in the wing scales to the other b-species and the type , the scales being rather shorter and broader .
SUI Mr. F. Y. Theobald .
On Culicidce of India , Anopheles barbirostris .
( Van der Wulp .
) ' Leyden Museum Notes , ' 6 , p. 48 , Van der Wulp ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 146 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax deep grey with slaty reflection , dark longitudinal lines and minute black specks , with long scattered golden hair-like scales .
Palpi densely scaled , entirely black , palpi and scaled proboscis forming a very prominent black projecting mass .
Abdomen nearly black .
Legs dark brown , usually unbanded , but with sometimes narrow apical and basal banding .
Costa black , with two small yellow spots ; apical fringe black , except between the second and third veins .
Scales much more robust than in A. sinensis and its sub-species .
Length.\#151 ; 5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Calcutta ; Selangor ; Old Calabar ( West Africa ) .
Observations.\#151 ; This Malay and East Indian species , which has also recently been found in India , can at once be told from the others of this group by the entirely black palpi and the much broader wing scales .
Dr. Christophers sent me a note ( undoubtedly concerning this species ) from Gopal Chunde Chatterpee , stating that in living specimens the halteres are to be seen rythmically moving backwards and forwards , and thus differing from sub-species , in which the halteres are not so fully developed , and do not move about .
Anopheles gigas .
( Giles .
) ' Into .
Mo. Mag. , ' p. 196 , vol. 37 , 1901 , Giles ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 2 , p. 308 , 1901 , Theobald .
Thorax fawn coloured in the middle , dark brown on each side ; abdomen dark brown ; palpi long and thin , deep brown ; legs dark brown , with basal pale banding , especially to the hind legs , bases of the legs pale , almost white .
Wings with two large black spots on the costa and black patches on the wing-field ; fringe pale where the veins join the border of the wings except at the ends of the fifth vein , which have a pale patch between them .
Length.\#151 ; 6 to 7 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Conoor , Nehilgerri Hills , India .
Observations.\#151 ; The largest and handsomest Indian anopheles I have seen .
The two pronounced black costal spots should at once identify it .
Taken at an elevation of 6,000 feet .
Anopheles metaboles , n. sp. Thorax brown , with frosty-grey scales in the middle , the brown forming a broad line on each side .
Abdomen deep brown with golden with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
37 5 hairs and small scales .
Legs deep brown speckled with white , joints of the fore and hind tarsi with apical white spots .
Wings with the costa with four prominent black spots and two smaller basal ones , and a few small black spots on the veins ; fringe dark , with pale areas .
| ? .
Head dark brown with frosty upright forked scales in front , dark brown ones behind and at the sides ; antennae dark brown ; palpi deep brown with three white bands , the two apical ones the widest , the whole of the last joint is white ; proboscis black .
Thorax deep brown with narrow curved , flat , pale creamy scales , giving the thorax a frosty appearance in the middle , and a median tuft of white hair-like scales projecting over the top of the head ; the sides of the mesothorax dark ; scutellum paler brown , with narrow curved pale scales and dark brown border-bristles ; pleurse chestnut-brown , with patches of creamy scales .
I Abdomen deep brown , with dense dull golden hairs , and scattered small narrow curved pale scales .
{ Legs dark brown , speckled with pale creamy spots ; apices of the fore tibiae , metatarsi , and first two tarsi yellow , last two all dark .
brown ; in the mid legs the apical spots are scarcely apparent ; in the hind more distinct , but the last joint is all dark brown ; ungues small , I equal , and simple .
I Wings ( Plate 5 , fig. 1 ) with four large black costal spots , and two ismaller ones near the base ; the two apical costal spots are continuous on to the first long vein ; the third , which is the largest , has three typical spots beneath it on the first long vein ( fig. l , i ) ; the fourth has one beneath it not quite so long ; there are also black spots on the veins as follows : one on the upper branch of the first fork-cell , just below the apical costal spot , another towards the base of the fork-cell , a small one near its apex , and two small ones on the stem ; two small spots at the base , and one at the apex of the third vein ; two on the upper and one 376 Mr. F. V. Theobald .
On of India , on the lower branch of the second fork-cell , and two long ones on its stem ; two on the upper , one on the lower branch of the fifth long vein , and one at its base ; three small ones on the sixth vein ; fringe dusky , partly yellow at the apex , and with a yellow spot at the terminations of the veins ; fork-cells short , base of the first submarginal slightly the nearer to the base of the wing , its stem nearly as long as the cell ; stem of the second posterior longer than the cell ; supernumerary cross-vein nearly its own length in front of the mid crossvein , the posterior cross-vein longer than the mid , nearly twice its own length distant from it , stoping towards the base of the wing .
Length.\#151 ; 3*5 to 4'5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Lahore , India .
Observations.\#151 ; Described from five ?
's sent by Captain James and Drs. Christophers and Stephens .
It comes near A. maculata , Theo .
( p. 171 , vol. 1 , 'Mono .
Culicidse ' ) , but can at once be told by the last hind 'tarsi not being white as in that speckled-legged anopheles ; from the speckled-legged A. Theobaldi , Giles ( ' Ento .
Mo. Mag. , ' p. 198 , 1901 ) , and A. Jamesii , Theo .
( 'Mono .
Culicidse , ' p. 134 , vol. 1 ) , also by the hind tarsi not being white .
The third spot on the border of the wing is subject to some variation , as shown in fig. 1 .
One specimen has only two spots on the sixth long vein , not three .
Anopheles Eossii .
( Giles .
) ' Journ. Trop .
Med. , ' Oct. 1899 , Giles ; ' Hnd .
Bk .
Gnats , ' p. 149 , Giles ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 154 , Theobald .
Thorax pale yellowish-brown , with scattered greyish reflections , and with a darker median line and scattered pale scales and hairs .
Palpi of $ dark scaled , white apically , and with two other pale bands ; of Ay swollen at the end , yellow , with a broad black band at the base , one in the middle , and a small broken one at the apex of the same joint , and a narrow black ring at the base of the last two apical joints .
Abdomen dusky , with a dense covering of ochraceous hairs .
Legs yellow , with brown scales and yellowish bands , both apical and basal to the tarsi .
Wings with four black costal spots , the largest usually flatly T-shaped , but variable ; fringe with yellow spots where the veins join the border of the wings , except at the sixth vein .
Length of ?
4 to 6 mm. ; of A 4-5 to 5*5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Calcutta ; Lucknow ; Madras ; Quilon ; Behar , Bengal ; Dacca ; Sambalpur ; Etawah , N.W.P. ; Singapore ; Perak , and other Malay States .
Observations.\#151 ; This species seems to be very variable in regard to the wing markings .
The typical costal T-shaped spot will not distinguish the species as I previously supposed , as this spot is variable .
Several specimens have an accessory spot at the end of the T-shaped one , with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
377 others Dr. Christophers sends me have the T-spot badly developed ; others have the first and second large spots united on the costa .
In any batch of A. Eossii caught at Calcutta , it seems from the joint letter of Captain James , I.M.S. , and Drs. Stephens and Christophers , several variations from the type may be found .
It appears this common Asiatic species does not take part in the distribution of malaria .
Anopheles Indicus .
( Theobald .
) = A. culicifacies .
Giles .
( ? .
) \#163 ; Mono .
Cuboid./ 1 , p. 183 , 1901 .
Thorax pale ochraceous-brown , with pale golden hair-like curved scales and black bristles ; palpi dark brown , with yellowish-white apex and two other pale rings .
Abdomen dark shiny-brown , densely clothed with golden-brown hairs ; venter pale ochraceous .
Legs dark brown , almost black , a small yellow spot at the apex of the tibiae and femora .
Wings with costal border marked with four prominent black spots and a small basal one ; wing-fringe dusky , with three yellow patches , namely , at the ends of the lower branch of the fourth and the two branches of the fifth .
Length\#151 ; 3 to 3-5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Madras .
Observations.\#151 ; I have seen only a single specimen of this insect .
It is very similar to Grassi 's A. superpictus , but much smaller , and has no tarsal banding.* Anopheles Listoni .
( Giles .
) = A. culicifacies . ? .
( Giles.)* 1 Ento .
Mo. Mag. , ' p. 197 , 1901 .
Thorax dark brown at the sides , paler in the middle ; abdomen deep brown , with scattered pale hairs .
Legs dark brown , unbanded .
Wings with the costa black , including the actual base , with four small distinct yellow spots , the largest light area being that ( piite at the base , fiinge dark , except at the apex , and indistinct paler patches opposite one or two of the longitudinal junctions .
Palpi of V black , with two narrow rings and a minute white tip ; in the \lt ; f , black with two whitish bands .
( Fresh specimens show three fringe spots .
) Length.\#151 ; 3'5 to 4 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Elliehpur , Behars ; Etawah , N.W.P. Observations.\#151 ; This and my A. Christopher si are very closely related , but can easily be separated by the difference in the banding of the palpi .
* Having recently examined a fresh series of culicifacies , I am convinced my A. Indicus is the same .
This name must therefore sink as a synonym , as Col. Giles described Listoni and culicifacies a month before my Indicus .
Giles 's ?
culicifacies is the same as Listoni , so that both names sink under culicifacies , as the latter was described first .
VOL. LXIX .
2 D Mr. F. V. Theobald .
On Culicidce of India , Anopheles Christophe n. sp. Thorax brown with narrow curved , long , pale golden scales , slightly darker at the sides .
Abdomen dark brown with golden hairs .
Legs dark brown , unbanded , and with no knee or other spots .
Palpi brown to black , with two broad apical white bands and a narrow one towards the base .
Wings with the costa black , with four small yellow spots , the basal one rather indistinct , veins with rather long scales , the black ones being most prominent ; fringe black , with four pale spots .
$ .
Head dark brown , with broad white upright forked scales in front , black ones behind , and a dense tuft of white hairs projecting forwards ; palpi dark brown , almost black , densely scaled , with two broad apical bands and a narrow one on the apex of the basal third of the palpi ; antennae bright brown ; proboscis deep brown with pale apex .
Thorax brown , with long , narrow , curved , hair-like , golden scales and brown bristles ; scutellum cinereous-brown with a double row of border-bristles , the outer ones being large , the inner small ; metano-tum deep brown to black .
Abdomen almost black , with golden hairs .
Legs completely dark brown with bronzy reflections in the sun ; ungues equal and simple .
Wings ( Plate 5 , fig. 3 ) with the costal border black , with four small yellow spots , and the apex yellow , the basal spot very small ; the yellow spots spread uniformly on to the first long vein except the third which passes well under the black costal spot ; scales of the veins mostly black ; a yellow patch at the base of the fork-cells and on most of the third long vein , a long patch at the base and another towards the middle of the fourth vein ; one large and one small patch on the upper and one large one on the lower branch of the fifth vein , the stem mostly pale ; most of the sixth dark , but there is a broad yellow line towards the base ; fringe black , with yellow spots at the end of the veins , except where the sixth joins the costal border ; first submarginal cell considerably longer and narrower than the second posterior cell , its base much the nearer to the base of the wing ; its stem about half the length of the cell ; stem of the second posterior about one and a half times the length of the cell ; supernumerary cross-vein about half its own length in front of the mid cross-vein ; the mid more than its own length in front of the posterior .
Halteres with pale testaceous stem and black knob .
Length.\#151 ; 2*5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Duars ( Christophers ) .
Observations.\#151 ; Described from two $ 's sent to the Royal Society .
The species is very closely related to my A. Indica , but has more than threS pale fringe spots , and the cross-veins are not the same , being more like A. superpidus , Grassi .
The long black basal part of the costa is also very characteristic , as also is the pale third long vein .
Theobald .
Roy .
Soc. Free .
, 69 , 5 .
Fig. 1 .
Anopheles metaholes , n. sp. ( ?
) .
Fig. 2 .
Anopheles pulclierrimus , n. sp. ( ?
) .
Anopheles Christopher si , n. sp. ( ?
) .
[ From negatives taken by Mr. W. H. Hammond .
Wings of Three New Indian Anopheles ( ?
's ) .
with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
379 The only other unhanded legged Indian species related to it are A. Listoni , Giles , A. culicifacies , Giles , and A. Turkhudi , Liston ; the first has the largest right costal area at the base of the wing and the forked scales of the head mostly dark in the ?
, and the $ palpi with two narrow rings and a minute white tip .
A. culicifacies has only three pale fringe spots .
A. Turkhudi differs in having the apex of the palpi black in the 5 .
A. Christopher si is abundant in the malarious district of Duars , and is a prominent malaria bearer .
Anopheles Turkhudi , Liston .
A. culicifacies Giles .
'Indian Med. Gazette , ' December 1901 , p. 441 .
" Thorax covered with white scales on a dark background , scales so arranged as to show a median and two rather less distinct , lateral , darker , longitudinal markings .
Lateral aspects of the thorax covered with brown scales , often tipped with white .
Abdomen dark olive-green colour , covered with many light yellow hairs .
Legs dark scaled , except for a few yellowish-white scales at the distal extremities of the femora and tibiae .
Proboscis dark , yellow at tip .
Palpi with black scaled tips , and with three white scaled bands on each ; wing with six white scaled portions to the costa , one at the apex of the wing ; the first long vein has five white areas corresponding with the five outer white ones on the costa , in addition a small white interruption at the position of the marginal transverse vein ; fringe with pale interruptions , except at the sixth vein .
" Habitat.\#151 ; Ellichpur .
Time of Capture.\#151 ; March and April .
" Note.\#151 ; I have not seen this species .
It is described by Captain Liston , I.M.S. , and seems elearly distinct .
Unfortunately no measurements are given in his paper .
The figure given shows the tarsi banded with narrow pale bands , thus differing from the description in the text .
The black-tipped palpi should easily enable the observer to identify this Anopheles.\#151 ; ( F. Y. T.)* Anopheles culicifacies .
( Giles .
) 2 .
A. Listoni .
Giles .
A. Indica .
Theobald .
' Into .
Mo. Mag. ' p. 197 ( 1901 ) , Giles ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 309 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax brown , darker at the sides ; abdomen brown , with deep brown apical bands , slightly darker at the sides .
Legs dark brown , unbanded .
Wings with four almost equal sized pale spots on the costal * Since this went to press , Capt. Liston lias presented the types to the British Museum .
380 Mr. F. Y. Theobald .
On the Gulicidce of India , border and one smaller basal one : third long vein dark .
Palpi of 2 thin , brown with two narrow pale bands and a pale apex ; of G brown , the last two joints swollen , the penultimate and antepenultimate with apical pale bands , the apex of antepenultimate and the penultimate with golden-brown hair-tufts .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Male genitalia of A. culicifacres .
( x 50.)# Length of $ 3'8 mm. ; of 3*5 to 4 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Hoshangabad ( C.P. ) , and Behars ; Lahore , Punjaub .
Observations.\#151 ; A very distinct species .
The abnormal habit of assuming the position of Culex when resting should also identify it when alive .
The abdomen when fresh seems to have conspicuous banding .
The wing-fringe in the $ type is unspotted , but this is due to fading ; fresh specimens have three spots .
The male genitalia ( fig. 2 ) are very peculiar.* Anopheles Kochii .
( Donitz .
) ' Insecten Borse , ' 5 Jr. , 18 , 31 January , 1901 , p. 36 , Donitz ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 174(1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax fawn coloured , with two large eye-like black spots ; the front with longish white , the rest with creamy curved scales .
Abdomen ashy-brown with numerous scales and dull golden hairs and lateral dark tufts of scales as in A. pulcherrTheobald .
Legs banded and marked with dark brown and yellow , some of the tarsi basally brown banded .
Costa creamy-yellow with four black spots and numerous small ones over the wing field .
Length.\#151 ; 3 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Malay Peninsula , East Indies ( Sumatra and Java ) ; Calcutta .
Observations.\#151 ; Very like A. pulcherrim , and closely related to it , being densely scaly , and with similar lateral apical tufts to the abdominal segments , but easily separated by the two thoracic ocelli and the absence of white hind tarsi .
* The ?
type of culicifacies is the same as Giles 's ?
; as culicifacies was described first , that name stands .
The $ type of is a \#163 ; Liston .
with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
Anopheles Lindesayii .
( Giles .
) 'Hnd .
Bk .
of Gnats/ p. 166 ( 1900 ) , Giles ; ' Mono .
Culicid./ 1 , p. 203 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax ashy-grey in the middle , a dark brown stripe on each side , with three dusky median lines and golden hair-like scales .
Abdomen black , with numerous pale and dark hairs .
Costa black , with one creamy patch near the apex ; veins mostly black scaled ; legs black ; posterior femora with a broad white band in the middle .
Length.\#151 ; 4-5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Bakloh , Punjaub ; Naini Tal ; Kurseong ( Darjeeling ) Mussoorie .
Observations.\#151 ; A very distinct species , at once told by the broad white band on the posterior femora .
Genus Toxorliynchites .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid\#174 ; ./ 1 , p. 244 ( 1901 ) .
This genus resembles Megarhinus , but the ?
palpi are short and thick , and three-jointed .
Several species described as Megarhinus will have to come in this genus , including the Indian species .
Toxorhynchites immisericors .
( Walker .
) Megarhinus immisericors .
( Walker .
) Culex regius .
( Thwaites .
) Megarhinus Gilesii .
( Theobald , 1901 .
) ' Proc. Linn. Soc. Lond. , ' iv , p. 91 ( 1860 ) , and vii , p. 202 , Walker ; ' Mono .
Culicid./ 1 , p. 225 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
This large mosquito , called the elephant mosquito , can at once be told from other Indian Culicidce by the caudal tuft .
Walker described it as a Megarhinus .
Not having seen the ?
( as I imagined ) when my recent monograph of ' Culicidse ' went to press , I included the S in that genus .
The $ 's have short palpi , and thus the species comes in my genus Toxorhynchites .
There is considerable variation in the leg banding .
The $ specimens I described as M. Gilesii I now find are only Walker 's species immisericors .
Habitat.\#151 ; Travancore ; Trincomalie , Hot Wells ; Ceylon ; Celebes ; Mysol ; North Ceram ; Weigiou ; Sikkim ; Burma .
Genus Mucidus .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid./ 1 , p. 268 ( 1901 ) .
This genus can at once be identified by the curious twisted scales , giving the insects a mouldy appearance .
Mr. F. Y. Theobald .
On of India , Mucidus scataphagoides .
( Theobald .
) 'Mono .
Cuboid .
, ' 1 , p. 277 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax densely covered with loose scales , giving it a grey , mouldy hue , with a yellowish-brown patch on each side ; having the appearance of the head of an insect .
Abdomen yellowish-brown , with a white median tuft of scales on the first four segments , remainder mostly white scaled .
Wings with fringe with alternate pale and dusky patches ; scales on the veins dense , forming dusky and ochraceous patches .
Legs ochraceous banded with ochraceous-yellow and brown parti-coloured scales and white scales .
Length.\#151 ; 6'5 to 7 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Moradabad ( N.W.P. ) and Burma .
Observations.\#151 ; Easily told from all other Indian mosquitoes by its large size and curious twisted scales .
Genus Stegomyia .
( Theobald .
) 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 283 ( 1901 ) .
Thick set culices with flat scales and upright forked-scales over the head only and flat scales on the scutellum .
Five species of this genus occur in India , which may be tabulated as follows :\#151 ; A. Tarsi basally banded .
a. Proboscis banded distinctly in f , less so in the ? .
Wings with black scales and scattered white ones .
( Giles .
) oca .
Proboscis unbanded .
Thorax with two median parallel pale lines and lateral curved pale lines .
fasciata .
( Fab .
) Thorax with a single median silvery line and lateral curved lines .
( Walker .
) B. Tarsi apically and basally banded .
Thorax with narrow median silvery line and lateral curved lines and two short yellow ones in front .
( Giles .
) Thorax sooty , with a round anterior median and four lateral snowy spots at corners of the mesonotum .
gubernatoris .
( Giles .
) Stegomyia pipersalata .
( Giles .
) 'Hand Bk .
Mosq .
, ' 2nd ed. ( 1901 ) , Giles .
'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 316 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Clearly told by the white and black wing scales from other Indian with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
383 species .
I have only seen the types presented to the Museum .
( Col. Giles .
) Habitat.\#151 ; Jhansi and Gonda , N.W.P. Stegomyia fasciata .
( Fab .
) 'Syst .
Anti .
, ' 36 , 13 ( 1805 ) , Fab .
; 'Mono .
Culicid .
, 'l , p. 289 ( 1901 ) .
This common household species has been recorded from Quilon , Calcutta , Madras .
It does not seem to be so abundant in India as in other parts of the world .
This is the species which is connected with yellow fever .
It is known under at least fifteen different names , the commonest being Culex tceniatus , Wiedemann .
Stegomyia scutellaris .
( Walker .
) C. albopictus.(Skuse .
) C. variegatus .
( Doleschall .
) 'Proc .
Linn. Soc. Lond. , ' hi , p. 77 ( 1859 ) , Walker ; 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 289 , Theobald .
An abundant Asiatic species , occurring in India at Madras , Nairn Tal , Sambalpur ( C.P. ) ; Calcutta , \amp ; c. It is the same as Skuse 's albopictus , recorded from Calcutta , where it is a great nuisance .
Stegomyia pseudotceniata .
( Giles .
) ' The Entomologist , ' p. 192 ( 1901 ) , Giles ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 312 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
I have only seen a single specimen of this marked , and have no further notes to add . .
It occurred at Naini Tal ( 7,000 feet ) , Bakloh , Punjaub ( 6,000-8,000 feet ) .
Stegomyia gubernatoris .
( Giles .
) ' The Entomologist , ' p. 194 , July ( 1901 ) , Giles ; 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 314 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
A single specimen only has so far been taken by Colonel Giles in Government House , Allahabad .
The marked thoracic ornamentation mentioned in the table .
makes its identification an easy matter .
Evidently a rare species .
Genus Armigeres .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 322 ( 1901 ) .
Separated from Stegomyia by the long , thin , hairless S palpi and peculiar larva .
Mr. F. Y. Theobald .
On Gulicidce of India , Armigeres obturbans .
( Walker .
) Gulexobturbans .
( Walker .
) Culex ventralis .
( Walker .
) 'Proc .
Linn. Soc. Lond. , ' iv , p. 91 ( 1860 ) , et v , p. 144 , Walker ; 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 323 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax black , covered with bronzy scales in the middle of the mesothorax and with creamy-white ones all round , forming a broad , pale band .
Abdomen black , with large white triangular lateral spots , last segment white .
Legs black , bases and venter of the femora pale , almost Avhite .
Length.\#151 ; 6-5 to 7'5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Madras ; Naini Tal ; Travancore ; Morzufferpur , Behar , Bengal ; Malay Peninsula ; Hong Kong ; Formosa ; Foo Chow ; East Indies .
Observations.\#151 ; This is one of the most abundant Asiatic species .
Lieut.-Colonel Giles has sent me specimens from India under different specific names , but only one seems at all distinct .
The species is certainly subject to considerable variation in size .
If the species of this genus are to be separated I am sure they can only be done so by an examination of the male ungues and genitalia .
For the present I retain them all but one in this species .
The typical d ' ungues are as follows\#151 ; the fore unequal , both uniserrated , the mid smaller than the fore , not so unequal and uniserrated ; the hind small , equal and simple .
Armigeres panaledros .
( Giles MS .
) 'Mono .
Culcidae , ' 2 , p. 317 ( 1901 ) .
This species is much smaller than A. ventralis , and has the thorax elaborately adorned ; mouse coloured adorned with lighter lyre-shaped marks , and all the ungues of the male are toothed .
Habitat.\#151 ; India .
Genus Culex .
Linnaeus .
'Linn .
Syst. Not .
' ( 1735 ) , Linnaeus ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' l , p. 326(1901 ) , Theobald .
The type may be taken as C. fatigans , Wied .
, or C. L. , head scales and thoracic scales being mostly narrow curved ones .
Sixteen species of Culex are so far known in India ; the following table will help identify them :\#151 ; -A .
Wings spotted .
a. Wings spotted along the costa .
Proboscis banded .
mimeticus .
( No .
) ivith Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
a.a.Wings faintly spotted on wing field .
Thorax ornamented with lines of white scales ; legs spotted ; wing spots three .
( Rondani .
) AA .
Wings unspotted .
/ 3.Legs banded .
y. Proboscis banded with one pale band .
8 .
Tarsi basally banded .
e. Abdomen with lateral white spots and basal bands ; ?
fore ungues equal and simple .
microannulatus .
( Theobald .
) ee .
Abdomen basally banded , but with no lateral spots .
Mid and hind legs with a broad tibio-metatarsal band .
impellens .
( Walker .
) No broad tibio-metatarsal band , last abdominal segments with apical and basal banding .
Vishnui .
( Theobald .
) yy .
Proboscis with three pale bands .
Tarsi basally banded .
( Giles .
) yyy .
Proboscis unbanded .
8 .
Legs basally banded .
\#163 ; .
Thorax not ornamented .
Abdomen with basal and some apical bands ; fore and mid ungues of ?
uniserrated .
cantans .
( Meigen .
) 88 .
Legs basally and apically banded .
Thorax adorned with frosty-white scales on anterior two-thirds .
gelidus .
( Theobald .
) 888 .
Legs unbanded .
e. Legs with a white line on femora and tibiae .
tipuliformis .
( Theobald .
) " " .
Legs uniformly coloured .
\#163 ; .
Abdomen with lateral white spots and basal patches .
Thorax golden scaled , with lateral lines of brighter golden scales on posterior half ; abdomen with curved lateral silvery spots .
( Giles .
) f. Abdomen with basal pale bands .
Thorax black , with ferruginous scales , pale at the sides .
( Zett .
) if .
Abdomen apically banded First few segments with yellow apical bands , remainder all ochraceous .
( Desvoidy .
) Pipiens Group .
a. Abdomen basally banded .
/ ? .
Thorax unadorned .
Abdominal bands swollen out in middle , apical segments white .
viridiventer .
( Giles .
) Abdominal bands uniform .
quasipipiens .
( Theobald .
) 386 Mr. F. Y. Theobald .
On Culicidce of India , / 3f3 .
Thorax adorned .
Thorax with two or three dusky , longitudinal lines ; basal abdominal bands curved , white or creamy .
fatigans .
( Wiedemann .
) Abdominal bands , swollen into a median , triangular patch .
angulatus .
( Theobald .
) Culex mimeticus .
( No .
) 'Boll .
d. Soc. Ent .
ltd./ 31 , p. 240 ( 1897 ) , No ; 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 329 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax brown , with dark stripes and with golden curved scales .
Abdomen brown , with basal white bands ; venter white .
Legs brown , metatarsi and tarsi with basal white bands and traces of apical ones .
Proboscis banded .
Wings spotted with brown and yellow along the costa , three yellow spots .
Length.\#151 ; 5 to 6 mm. Habitat .
\#151 ; Punj aub ; Perak ; Italy .
Observations .
\#151 ; -Apparently a common species in parts of Northern India and Malay Peninsula .
Easily told by its wings , resembling those of an Anopheles .
There seems to be considerable variation in size in the specimens I have recently seen .
Culex spathipalpis .
( Rondani .
) ' Dipped .
Ital .
Prodro .
, ' vol. 1 ( 1886 ) , Rondani ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , 1 p. 339 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax umber-brown , with a median line of white scales , a bent white lateral line , and another more indistinct on each side below .
Abdoihen yellow scaled , with scattered black ones which form patches , basally banded white , the bands expanding backwards in the middle of the second and third segments and produced laterally .
Legs with lines of white spots , often almost forming stripes ; metatarsi and some of the tarsi basally banded white .
Wings with three small more or less distinct patches of scales .
Length of ?
7 to 8 mm. ; of $7 to 8 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; India ( Naini Tal ) ; Italy ; Gibraltar ; Palestine .
1 Observations.\#151 ; A very marked species occurring in Europe and India .
The spotted legs and wings and its large size will at once separate it .
; Culex microannulatus .
( Theobald .
) * Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 353 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax brown , with curved golden-brown scales and three rows dark bristles ; abdomen dark brown with basal greyish-white bands .
with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
Proboscis with a broad yellowish-white band in the middle .
Legs brown , with small yellow basal rings and a small white band at the apex of the femora .
Head brown , covered with creamy-brown curved scales and a pale border round the eyes and upright brown forked scales .
| Fore ungues of unequal , the larger underrated , the smaller simple .
I Length of ?
5 mm. ; of $5 mm. I Habitat.\#151 ; Quilon , Travancore ; Madras ; Calcutta , and North-West Provinces .
I Observations.\#151 ; Yery like the next species , only darker , rather larger , and the head all pale instead of with two black patches as in C. Vishnui .
The \lt ; $ ungues also differ .
Culex Vishnui .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid./ 1 , p. 355 ( 1901 ) .
} Thorax brown , with fawn coloured scales , two more or less distinct median lines and a thin central one formed by a row of bristles .
Abdomen deep brown , basally banded with pale yellow , some of the apical segments with a narrow row of apical yellow scales as well .
Legs brown , tarsi darker , narrowly basally banded with yellow ; ungues of | $ equal and simple .
Head with dark lateral patches .
Male fore ungues , unequal , both uniserrated .
* Length of $ 3 to 4-5 mm. ; of J 3 to 4 mm. !
Habitat.\#151 ; Quilon ; Sambalpur ; Punjaub ; Madras ; Dacca ; Ceylon .
Observations.\#151 ; Resembling the former , but easily told by the paler hue and head ornamentation , as well as the ungues .
Evidently a common southern form .
Not so far recorded from Northern India .
Culex impellens .
( Walker .
) ' Proc. Linn. Soc. Lond. , ' iv , p. 91 , Walker ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 362 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax dark brown , covered with pale golden curved scales .
Abdo-men covered with dusky-brown scales , with basal white bands .
Legs I brown , the mid and hind legs with a pale band involving both sides Of | the tibio-inetatarsal joint ; tarsal banding basal .
Bases of fork-cells I nearly level .
Length.\#151 ; ?
4'5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; N. W. Provinces ; Calcutta ; Perak .
Observations.\#151 ; Closely related to C. microannulatus , but easily told by | .
the tibio-metatarsal banding .
Mr. F. Y. Theobald .
On Culicidce of India , Culex tritceniorhynchus .
( Giles .
) The Entomologist , 'p .
192 ( 1901 ) , Giles ; 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 364 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax fuscous with golden-brown tomentum , unadorned .
Abdomen fuscous with narrow yellowish-white basal bands , broader in the middle than laterally .
Legs minutely basally banded ; proboscis with three ochraceous bands .
Length of \lt ; f 24 mm. ; of $ 3 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; I ndia .
Observations.\#151 ; I have not been able to find this species amongst those sent me by Colonel Giles , nor have I seen any triple-banded proboscis species .
Several specimens of C. have appeared so through denudation however .
Culexcantans .
( Meigen .
) C. stimulans .
( Walker .
) C. maculatus .
( Meigen .
) C. fumipennis .
( Stephens .
) 'Syst .
Beschr .
, ' 1 , 6 , 6 , Meigen ( 1818 ) : 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' 1 , p. 401 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax dark brown , covered with narrow , reddish , and golden-brown curved scales , paler and broader just before the scutellum and at the sides of the mesonotum .
Abdomen dark brown , with basal pale bands which often spread out laterally on some of the segments ; the last few segments have traces of apical banding also , the apical segments often entirely pale scaled .
Legs dark brown , mottled with paler scales , metatarsi and tarsi with pale broad basal bands ; fore and mid ungues of $ thick , equal , uniserrated ; hind simple .
Length of ?
6 to 7 mm. ; of \lt ; $7 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Europe , N. America , and India .
Observations.\#151 ; A very distinct , large species common in Europe .
The mid cross-vein and supernumerary in one line .
Colonel Giles has given an undoubted specimen of this species , to the British Museum .
It was taken by Dr. Price at Conoor in the Nehilgerry Hills at an elevation of 6,000 feet .
Culex gelidus .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 20 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax dusky yellowish-brown to deep brown , with the anterior two-thirds covered with frosty-white curved scales , the hind portion with almost black scales and long black bristles .
Abdomen brown with basal creamy-white bands and pale lateral spots .
Ungues of the ?
equal and simple .
with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
f Length of ?
4*5 mm. e Habitat.\#151 ; Quilon , Travancore ; Dacca ; Ceylon ; Perak ; Selangor .
| Observations.\#151 ; A very distinct species with a wide distribution in India .
The frosty anterior two-thirds of the thorax will identify it at once .
I A distinct variety , cuneatus , occurs in Southern India at Quilon , in which the abdominal bands have a triangular median projection .
Culex tipuliformis .
( Theobald .
) * Mono .
Culicid./ ii , p. 325 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
I Thorax brown , with narrow , golden-brown curved scales , paler behind ; pleurae white scaled .
Abdomen dark brown , with basal white median semicircular patches on segments two to five , basal bands spreading out laterally on the apical segments ; legs unbanded , paler brown , long and thin ; femora and tibiae with a distinct line of white scales running down them .
Proboscis with apparently two pale bands .
I Length.\#151 ; 5'8 mm. ( ?
) .
| Habitat.\#151 ; Bakloh ( N.W.P. ) .
[ Observations.\#151 ; A. very distinct large species , with peculiar leg ornamentation .
I am not certain of the proboscis banding , having seen only a single specimen .
Culex pulcriventer .
( Giles .
) I * The Entomologist/ p. 194 ( 1901 ) , Giles ; * Mono .
Culicid./ ii , p. 48 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax black , with a patch of golden scales in front , a line of golden scales on each side , along posterior half of mesonotum , curved downwards in front , and a row of golden scales on each side of the I bare space in front of the scutellum .
Abdomen black , with basal silvery white curved lateral patches ; venter golden-yellow , with basal white patches , and a narrow black border to the segments .
Legs black , basal parts creamy white .
\ Length of ?
5-5 to 6-5 mm. ; of 5 to 5^5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Naini Tal , India .
Observations.\#151 ; Easily identified by the peculiar thoracic ornamentation t and the basally white femora .
Culex nigripes .
( Zetterstedt .
) C. impiger .
( Walker .
) C. implacabilis .
( Walker .
) [ 'Ins .
Lapp .
' ( 1838-40 ) , Zetterstedt ; 'Mono .
Culicid./ ii , p. 93 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax black , with pale ferruginous scales , paler at the sides .
Mr. F. Y. Theobald .
On Oulicidce of , Abdomen black , with basal white bands , which spread out laterally on the last few segments .
Legs black ; femora pale beneath ; fore and mid ungues of ?
equal , uniserrated .
Length of ?
and $ 4'5 to 6 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; N. Europe ; N. America and India ( Kashmir ) ; Greenland and Arctic Circle generally .
Observations.\#151 ; Some damaged specimens have been received by the British Museum ( Not .
Hist. ) from Dr. Never from the Deosai Plateau , between Kashmir and Shardo , between 13,000 and 13,500 feet .
They are undoubtedly this species which seems to spread out round the north polar region to about 35 ' latitude .
Culex concolor .
( Robineau Desvoidy .
) ' Mem. Soc. Hist. Not .
de Paris/ 4 , 405 , Rob .
Desv .
; ' Mono .
Culicid./ ii , p. 107 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax brown , with tawny and fawn-coloured curved scales , with patches of paler scales in the middle line in front , a central patch , two lateral ones , and other pale scales in front of the scutellum .
Abdomen with brown scales , the first few segments with apical dull creamy borders ; the fifth with a dark basal band , most of it and all the remaining segments densely ochraceous yellow ; wings with a yellowish tinge .
Length of $ 6 to 8 mm. ; of \lt ; $ 7 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Asia generally .
Observations.\#151 ; A common and widely distributed Asiatic species occurring in China , all over the Malay Peninsula , India , and Ceylon .
Easily told by its general ochraceous fawn-coloured hue .
Culex viridiventer.(Giles .
) \lt ; Journal Bombay Not .
Hist. Soc./ p. 609 , No. 4 , vol. 13 ( 1901 ) , Giles ; ' Mono .
Culicid./ ii , p. 128 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax dark brown , with short , narrow curved deep golden-brown to bronzy scales , paler in front of the scutellum .
Abdomen dusky black , with basal white bands on the second and third segments , not always complete ; in the fourth to sixth the bands are very distinct and swell out in the middle ; apical segment white .
Legs black ; coxse and bases of femora greyish-white ; knee spots distinct .
Length of ?
5-5 to 6 mm. ; of $ 4 to 5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; Naini Tal , India .
Observations.\#151 ; A purely sylvan species , easily told from its nearest ally C. fatigans by the abdominal ornamentation .
with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
Culex fatigans .
( Wiedemann .
) Culex aestuans .
( Wied .
) i Culex pungens .
( Wied .
) 1 Heteronycha dolosa .
( Arribalzaga .
) I Auss .
Zweif .
Ins. , ' p. 10 , Wiedemann , \amp ; c. ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 151 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
I Thorax brown , with two distinct dark lines on the denuded surface , levered with pale golden curved scales , with two more or less bare parallel dark lines and three rows of dark bristles .
Abdomen dark [ brown to black , with basal white or pale creamy curved bands and white lateral spots .
Legs brown ; knee , and sometimes the apex of tibia , with a pale spot .
I Length of $ 4'5 to 5'5 mm. ; of ^ 4 to 5 mm. I Habitat.\#151 ; Generally over India and most tropical and sub-tropical [ countries and even in warmer temperate countries .
Subject to much variation , but easily told from its nearest ally , C. pipiens , L. , by the [ relative greater length of the stem of the first sub-marginal cell .
[ The species will probably have to be divided up into a number of fsub-speeies .
Some of these I have mentioned in the ' Monograph of ICulicidse ' ( pp. 156-189 ) .
It is the chief Filaria carrier .
[ It is one of the commonest household pests in warm climates .
Culex guasipipiens .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 136 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax brown , with narrow golden curved scales ; abdomen brown , I with white or pale creamy curved basal bands , last segment often \#166 ; entirely pale scaled .
Legs unbanded brown , knee spot pale .
livings I like C. pipiens , but the stem of first sub-marginal cell longer , and the \#166 ; relative positions of the sub-costal and costal junction with the base of I the first sub-marginal cell different , and the thoracic scales broader .
Length of ?
5 mm. I Habitat.-\#151 ; Sambalpur ( C.P. ) , India .
Observations.\#151 ; Nery like C. pipiens , but differs in wing venation and in ( scale structure .
C. pipiens , L. , has so far not been observed in India .
Culex angulatus .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 324 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax deep brown , with narrow curved dull golden-brown scales ; I pleurse pale .
Abdomen dark brown , with yellow basal bands with a \#166 ; triangular expansion in the middle of each .
Legs long and thin , I brown .
Length of $ 4 to 4 5 mm. Mr. F. Y. Theobald .
On of India , Habitat.\#151 ; Naini Tal .
Observations.-\#151 ; Very like C. fatigans , from which it can he told by the relatively longer legs , smaller thoracic scales , and abdominal ornamentation .
Genus Panoplites .
( Theobald .
) 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 173 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Three species of this genus occur in India .
They may easily be identified from other culices by the broad asymmetrical wing scales .
The table below will be sufficient to identify them:\#151 ; A. Thorax unspotted .
( Theobald .
) B. Thorax spotted .
Yellowish-brown ; wings with border-scales broad and asymmetrical .
annulifera .
( Theobald .
) Blackish-brown ; wings with border-scales narrow .
( Walker .
) 1 .
Panoplites uniformis .
( Theobald .
) Panoplites African us .
( Theobald .
) * Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 180 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
An abundant species in South India , and also occurs in the Malay Peninsula .
I feel certain now that the Panoplites from Africa that I have described as P. Africanus ( 'Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 187 ) is only this species .
Undoubted P. Africanus have been sent me by Mr. Green from Ceylon .
The African form is very variable , and I now find the same of the Indian .
2 .
Panoplites annulifera .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 183 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Occurs all over India , Malay Peninsula , and East Indies .
It has also been recently sent me from Manila .
Easily told from the following by its much paler hue , smaller size , and more banded and spotted appearance of the legs .
3 .
Panoplites annulipes .
( Walker .
) C. dives .
( Schiner .
) C. nero .
( Doleschall ) 1 1 Proc. Linn. Soc. Loud .
, ' 1 , p. 5 ( 1857 ) , Walker ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 185 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Much the same distribution as the above , but most abundant in the with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
393 IMalay Peninsula , and does not seem to occur in South India .
Much ^darker and larger than the former .
Genus Toeniorhynehus .
( Arribalzaga .
) I ' Dipped .
Argentina , ' p. 47 ( 1899 ) , Arribalzaga ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 190 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
I A single species of this genus occurs , in India .
The chief character |-of the genus as modified by me is the presence of dense thick i-elongated wing scales either ending obliquely , or bluntly pointed .
Tceniorhynchus ager .
( Giles .
) ' Entomologist , ' p. 196 , July ( 1901 ) , Giles ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 199 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
I Thorax deep chestnut-brown , with scattered golden scales , almost gwhite over the roots of the wings .
Abdomen black , with apical fereamy bands .
Legs ochraceous , with black and white scales , giving I them a mottled appearance ; tarsi basally pale banded on the fore legs , Bapically and basally on the mid and hind legs .
I Length of \#163 ; 4-5 mm. ; of ?
5 mm. | Habitat.\#151 ; Madras and N.W. India .
| Observations.\#151 ; This banded proboscis species can at once be told from Bother Indian Culicid se by the dense wing scales .
Genus Aedeomyia .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 218 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Palpi short in both sexes .
Separated from on account of the \#166 ; broad asymmetrical wing scales like Panoplites .
A single species only \#166 ; occurs in this genus .
Aedeomyia squammipenna .
( Arribalzaga .
) Aedes squammipennis .
( Arribalzaga .
) 'El Not .
Arg .
, ' 1 , 151 , 3 ( 1878 ) , and 'Dipt .
Arg .
, ' p. 62 ( 1891 ) , Arribalzaga ; ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 219 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Thorax brown , with scattered creamy-yellow scales in the middle , \#166 ; and with white scales at the sides and behind j scutellum ochraceous , \#166 ; with black scales at the sides and creamy ones in the middle ; abdomen \#166 ; brown , with two patches of creamy scales apically and two patehes of \#166 ; white scales basally , apical segments yellow scaled .
Legs banded , \#166 ; -covered with creamy , purple , and white scales , apices of mid femora I with a dense tuft of dark scales , and sometimes the hind legs are \#166 ; tufted .
VOL. LXIX .
, 2 E 394 Mr. G. W. Walker .
The Application of the Kinetic Length of ?
4 to 4'5 mm. ; of f 3-5 mm. Habitat.\#151 ; South America and India generally .
Observations.\#151 ; I can see no difference between the Indian and South American specimens .
The insect is very marked , and can at once he told by its densely-scaled dark mottled wings and leg tufts .
Genus Uranotcenia .
( Arribalzaga .
) ' Dipped .
Argentina , ' p. 63 ( 1891 ) , Arribalzaga ; \#163 ; Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 241 ( 1901 ) , Theobald .
Told from other Aedes by the presence of flat scales on the meso-thorax and scutellum , swollen mid femora , and by the very small fork-cells .
A single species represented by two ^ 's has been found in India .
Uranotcenia minima .
( Theobald .
) ' Mono .
Culicid .
, ' ii , p. 262 ( 1901 ) .
Thorax deep brown ( denuded ) , with long black bristles ; metanotum with a pale median line .
Abdomen dark brown , with narrow basal bands of pale yellowish-brown ; pleurae and coxae very pallid .
Length.\#151 ; P8 to 2 mm. ( A)- Habitat.\#151 ; Quilon , South India .
Observations.\#151 ; I have only seen two f 's of this species , both denuded of scales .
They are , however , I feel certain , but the fork-cells are a little longer than usual in this genus .
" The Application of the Kinetic Theory of Gases to the Electric , Magnetic , and Optical Properties of Diatomic Gases .
" By George W. Walker , B.A. Communicated by Professor Pucker , Sec. R.S. Received January 23 , \#151 ; Read February 14 , 1901 .
( Extended Abstract.\#151 ; Received January 6 , 1902 .
) In this paper I have endeavoured to examine the most important magnetic , electric , and optical properties of a gas , supposed to consist primarily of two-atom molecules .
A two-atom molecule , in which the atoms are of unequal mass and carry equal and opposite electrical charges , was selected not as an actual representation of the molecule , but as typical of the characteristic features .
I have adopted Boltzmann 's distribution law , and , as far as I can judge , have not applied it beyond the limits to which it appears to be justified experimentally .
We have first to observe that the molecules may be divided into three classes , which I have called A , B , and C.

