II .
" Chemical Examination of the Fluid from the Peritoneal Cavity of the Nematode Entozoa .
" By Dr. W. MARCET , F.R.S. Received January 2- , 1865 .
Some time ago Dr. Cobbold sent me a quantity of fluid which he had extracted from about seventy perfectly fresh specimens of the Ascaris negalocephala of the horse , and he requested me to make an analysis of it .
I most willingly availed myself of this unusual opportunity of ascertaining the composition of this fluid , the sample procured by Dr. Cobbold being fortunately large enough for the purpose .
The analysis of this fluid is interesting as showing that its composition is similar to that of juice of flesh in the higher animals , and consequently that the process of assimilation occurs in these worms much in the same way as in those animals where the organs of digestion and circulation are perfectly developed .
It also shows that a fluid similar to that existing in muscular tissue is apparently elaborated by the intestines of the Ascarides , while in the higher animals this fluid is formed from the blood .
The fluid was turbid , of a pale yellow colour , and emitted an offensive odour , although not of decomposition .
IMicroscojical E ; xamination .
Principally fine granular matter ; a few elongated bodies , some convoluted , as if consisting of this granular matter cast by passage through a membranous tube .
Some , but very few , spiral vegetable fibres and scales .
Clemical Examination .
Specific gravity 1'029 , reaction slightly acid .
5 cubic centimetres were evaporated to dryness , which yielded , in 1000 parts , Solid residue 82*7 Water ... .
917'3 1000'0 The fluid , when nearly boiling , coagulated into a solid mass , it therefore contained a large quantity of albumen .
With the object of separating the colloid from the crystalloid constituents , I measured off 10 cub. centims. of the liquid and dialyzed it for twenty-four hours in a 6-inch dialyzer .
By this operation the fluid lost its acid reaction , becoming neutral ; it has also parted with its smell .
The Colloid Fluid.-The solution remaining on the dialyzer consisted principally of albumen ; it was evaporated to dryness , and the weight of the residue determined ; this amounted to 0'532 grm. , being 53 per 1000 of the fluid analyzed .
The total solid constituents of the fluid being 82 7 per 1000 , it will be seen at once that about ~rds of the total residue consisted of colloid substances , and -rd of crystalloid .
These numbers should be accepted as approximate results , there being no substance possessed of absolutely colloid or crystalloid properties , and a small proportion of colloid having probably found its way through the membrane .
The dry colloid residue was incinerated , and found to contain 19 per cent. of ashes , which is so small a proportion as to show that very nearly the whole of the inorganic constituents of the fluid had passed through the membrane of the dialyzer .
The Crystalloid F luid.-This consisted of the solution in distilled water of those constituents of the ascaris-fluid which had found their way through the diaphragm of the dialyzer .
It contained no albumen but some organic matters , and very nearly the whole of the inorganic salts of the original fluid .
Evaporated nearly to dryness , a mass of crystals appeared after a lapse of time in the thick residue .
A part of the residue being ignited left a large proportion of ash , which was found to consist nearly entirely of phosphoric acid and potash .
The aqueous solution of the ash reacted strongly alkaline , and emitted no carbonic acid when tested with a mineral acid , showing that there existed more phosphoric acid than was necessary to combine with the whole of the bases present .
The absence of sulphates , of more than traces of chlorides , and of lime was very remarkable ; there might have been some soda present , but potash greatly predominated .
There is no record in my note-book as to the presence or absence of magnesia .
I now submitted to examination a solution in distilled water of the crystalloid residue .
It reacted acid ; the addition of a solution of nitrate of silver gave an abundant white precipitate with a slight yellow tinge , the fluid being acid before and after precipitation .
There was therefore but a small proportion of common tribasic phosphate of potash present , and there appeared to be a much larger proportion of the bibasic phosphate ; the former giving a yellow , and the latter a white precipitate with nitrate of silver .
I finally determined the fatty matters present in a given weight of the original fluid , and found that 1000 parts of the ascaris-fluid contained 5-1 parts of fat .
Conclusions .
5We may conclude from this inquiry that nutrition in the nematode worms can be carried on by means of a fluid containing few other substances besides albumen and phosphate of potash .
If we now consider that the principal constituent of juice of flesh is phosphate of potash , both tribasic and bibasic , that the ascarisand flesh-fluid are both acid , that in both fluids there is a very small quantity of chlorides with but very little or no soda and little or no lime , we shall be able to draw a very interesting parallel between the assimilation in the highest and lowest animals .

