]\gt ; Mr. C. Davison .
On the [ June 15 , im any order , and are all such as might be expected in experimental results of this nature .
Some of the greatest variations were obtained in exactly similar experiments performed at different times .
The moan of all the values of the polarisation in this table is voIts .
The rate of fall of the polarisation depends on tlje time the current has been electrolysing the solution , and also on its intensity , but in every case the fall is very rapid at first , being in some cases as much in the first minute as is in the next five minutes , and the fall in the first minute is never less than one-fourth of the polarisation .
IV .
' On the Annual and Semi-annual Seismic Periods By CHAliLEs DAVISON , , Mathematical Master at King Edward 's High School , BirminghanL Communicated by Professor J. H. POYNTING , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) Method of esfigaiion.\mdash ; The method adopted is similar to tlJat employed by Dr. C. G. Knott in his paper on " " Earthquake Frequen \ldquo ; If be a periodic function of , then from which it follows that . .
This latter expression gives the mean value of through an interval on either side of .
From it , all terms involving even multiples of eliminated , and the coefficients of all terms aftel the second are diminished to a greater extent than that of the second .
A definition of the unit earthquake having been adopted , the earthquakes of different districts are classified in half-monthly groups , the half of February containing fourteen days , and of all tlJe other months fifteen days ; and the numbers so obtained are reduced to intervals of equal ( fifteen days ) .
The numbers for the two halves of each month are added together .
The mean the lumbers for the six months November to April gives the 1893 .
] A and Seismic Periods .
mean corresponding to the end of January .
Six-monthly means are calculated in this way for the end of each month ; each mean is divided by the average of all twelve , and the difference between quotient and unity is multiplied by the augmenting factor , in order to obtain the correct value of the ratio : .
The curve obtained by plotting these reduced means gives special prominence to the annual period , by eliminating the semi-annual period and all those ] are fiactions of six months , and by diminishing the amplitudes of all other periods with respect to that of the annual period .
In .
the semi-annual period , the llumbers corl'esponding to the first halves of January and Jnly are added together , and so on ; the rest of the method being the as for the annual period .
The result gives special prominence to the semi-annual period by eliminating the annual period , and by eliminating or diminishing the amplitudes of all periods less than six months .
Seismic Periodicity in relation to Intensity.\mdash ; This discussion is founded on : ( 1 ) lists compiled from Mallet 's great catalogue , first , of shocks which were so slight as to be just perceptib ] , and , secondlv , of those which were strong enough to damage ildings ; ( 2 ) Professor Milne 's classification of the Japanese earthquakes of to 1889 according to the areas disturbed by them ; and ( 3 ) different catalogues relating to the same district , it being obvious that two such catalogues for the same time can only differ by the omission or inclusion of slight shocks .
The following resuIts are obtained:\mdash ; ( l ) In both periods , the amplitude is greater for than for strong shocks ; ( 2 ) appear to be two classes of slight shocks with an annual period , the btronger their maximum in winter , the weaker in summer ; and ( 3 ) in the case of the semi-annual period , both strong and slight shocks , as a rule , have nearly the same maximum epochs .
Seismic eriodicity relation to Geographical Position.\mdash ; The numof records examined is 62 , 45 belonging to the northern hemiphere , to southern , and 3 to equatorial countries .
1 .
\mdash ; In every , and in all but five records ( which are obviously incomplete ) , there is a fairly well-marked annual period .
As a rule , differcnt records for the same district agree in the same , or ] same , maximum epoch .
however , those which disagree in this respect , we have left 34 recol.ds for the northern hemisphere , 9 for the southern , and 2 for .
In the norther11 hemisphere , 4 records give the maximtlm in ovember , December , and in January ; in the southel.n phcre , 2 in April , 2 in May , in July , in ; the cnd of the month .
supposed in .
As a rule , then , the maximum epoch occurs in winter in both hemispheres .
The ampli84 On th -annual Periods .
[ June 15 , of the anllual period ranges from ( Zealand ) to ) ( Sicily and Algeria ) , the average of 57 records being 2 .
Semi-annual Period.\mdash ; Of the 62 records examined , only 3 fail to show a semi-annual period , the cause of the failure these cases no doubb the imperfection of the seismic record .
In Zealand and South-east Australia , the maximum epoch generally falls either in ebruary or March and August or eptember ; North America , as a rule , in March or April and September October .
But for other regions it does not seem possible as yet to any law .
The amplitude of the semi-annual period ranges from ( southern hemisphere ) to ( Mexico ) , the avel.age value being .3 .
In fifteen cases , the amplittlde of the semi-annual period exceeds that of annual leven of these records include the following insular disbricts , which are among the most well-marked ismic regions i the world , namely , the Grecian Archipelago , Japan , the ] Archipelago , New Zealand , and the West Indies .
average amplibude of the annual period in these eleven cases is , and that of the semi-annual period , the amplitude of the period is just half that for all the districts examined , the case of the semi-annual period the average mplitudes are the same .
of the Annual Period.\mdash ; In this , the , section of the , all attempt is made to the annual ange in barometric may be the cause of annual change in seismic frequency .
It would be difficult to pro that a connexion exists , but easons are which seem to render it in some degree probable .
1 .
The most obable cause of the origin of the majority of nonis the impulsive , due to slipping , of the two rock-surfaoes of a .
Now , be the causes of , it seems probable that they are merely auxiliary , and determine the epoch whett all eal.thquake shall take place , rather shall be an earthquake at all .
ProfesF G. H. Darwin , hhown that the displacement of the earth 's surface by arallel waves of barometric elovation and is not inconhiderable , and { hat it at first very as the depth increases .
Since the fault-slip which produccs cvell a rately brong Hhock musb be very small , and since the to be done in cAhe is , not the compression of solid roch , but the depression a ctured mass nearly , but quite , the annual of bal .
Olnetricpressul.e does not beem iucompetent to produce effects observed .
2 .
bet ecn the dates of the maximum epochs of the and barometric annoal periods are made of the icts tl.eated in this paper .
The seismic maximum approximately coincides Electrical Interference Phenomen with the baromctric maximum in 10 , and follows it by bout one month in 9 , and by about two months in 4 , districts ; the other cttbes generally admitting of some explanation .
3 .
In scismic icts , and especially in Japan and New Zeftland , the amplitude of the annual pel.iod is very small ; and , if many of the thquakes of these districts beneath , this should be the case ; for , in the course of a year , as the balometric ) ressure changes , the sea will have time to take up position , and thus the total pressure on the sea-bottom will be umaltered . .
Electrical Intcrference Phenomena } Analogous to Bings , but exhibited by Vaves p along lVires of which a part differs from the rest By H. , B.Sc. , " " 1851 Exhibition\ldquo ; Science Scholar .
Communicated by Professor A. W. RUCKER , Received lIa 1 .
In 1891 Mr. .
Bjerknes* showed how to measure the wavelength and primary damping of the electrica ] oscillations in a Hertzian primary conductor by the use of a special electrometel and long parallelwires which induced oscillations ated .
This form of secondary conductor , in which the wires are .
too to be in resonance with ] the prinlary oscillator , hel.eafter in tLis paper , be refel.red to as " " the long secoridal'y\ldquo ; or " " the \ldquo ; 2 . .
the following session } on found that , if vircs ac of tho ere eithel ( 1 ) aced by othel .
S thicker or thinner the ormal wire or ( 2 ) ed nearer ebhCr or rther ahall the distance in any of these cases , a partial reflection of the electricnl waves at such place of in the volume Geither then made ) ationb of what occul.red a condenser attached at a single of , but did not tively emine t effect produced waves by a lito 1ngth of the sccondary being diffcrent from 's Annalen , ' vol. , pp. , 1891 , " " Ucbel den der im rcn Hertz'schcn Leitcr Lncs alcn , ' vol. 49 , pp. , 1893 , " " Ucbcr Rcllexion clcc\ldquo ; J. Rittcr von Gcitler .

