.January 27 , 1859 .
Sir BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. Johni Hutton Balfour was admitted into the -Society .
In accordance with notice given at the last Meeting , the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of London was proposed for election and immediate ballot .
The ballot having been taken , his Lordship was declared duly elected .
The following commrnrnications were read 615 1 .
" On the Effect of Pressure on Electric Conductibility in Metallic Wires .
" In a Letter from M. ELIE W AIRTMANN of Geneva , to Major-General SABINE , Treas .
and V.P.R.S. Communicated by Prof. W. H. MILLER , For .
Sec. R.S. Received January 12 , 1859 .
Geneva , January 3rd , 1859 .
My dear Sir , --The newspapers having reported that a society of English shareholders intends to lay a second cable for transatlantic telegraphy , you will allow me to give here a brief account of some experiments by which I have succeeded in proving the effect of pressure on electric conductibility in metallic wires .
The method which I have resorted to is the one devised by MM .
Christie and Wheatstone , which is called the electrical bridge .
The current of a Bunsen 's battery of six large cells was divided between the wire to be tested ( a very soft copper wire 0 05 of an inch in diameter , and covered with gutta percha ) and another conductor ; both being connected with a delicate R1uhmkorff 's galvanometer , so that the needle remained on the zero point .
All contacts were made invariable by solderings .
No sensible effect being determined by the pressure of nine atmospheres in a piezometer , I made use of a press which enabled me to produce compressions superior to four hundred atmospheres , conseq quently superior to that which is suffered by an electric conductor immersed in the ocean , at a depth of 12,420 English feet .
The wire , besides its coating , was preserved against permanent deformation by two sheets of thick gutta percha , placed between the steel plates which took hold of it .
The experiments have shown-1 ? .
That a pressure of thirty atmospheres ( a number relative to the senisibility of the galvanometer ) diminishes the conducting power of a copper wire for electricity .
20 .
That the effect increases with the pressure .
30 .
That the diminution remains the same for each compression , as long as the latter does not vary .
40 .
That the primitive conducting power is exactly restored when the pressuire vanlishes altogether .
Many intieresting results flow from these conclusions , which I pro616 pose to examine in a future letter .
For the present , permit me to add , that the fact which I have discovered establishes a new connexion between electricity , heat , and light : for it has been demonstrated by M. de Senarmonta .
That any artificial increase of density in a non-crystallized solid body diminishes , in the direction in which it is exerted , the conducting power of that body for heat , b. That in homogeneous media which are in a state of artificial molecular equilibrium , the conformation of the thermic ellipsoid , either oblate or prolate , is always corresponding to that of the optic one .
I shall feel much gratified if you deem this communication worthy to be laid before the Royal Society .
*

