1872 .
] Mr. A. Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
503 from the part of the solution through which it would pass on being drawn up .
The bucket , now full of the crystallized normal sodic sulphate ( Na2 S04 , lOH .
O ) , was raised , and lowered into the second beaker of still fluid solution ; immediately that the point of one of the crystals hanging from the under surface of the bucket touched the solution , crystallization was set up instantaneously throughout the mass .
This experiment was performed many times , and with every possible care to prevent the entrance of nuclei other than those purposely borne by the wire . .
... .
A modification of the above plan was tried and with similar results .
Exp. A tubulated glass bell was fitted with a cork bearing two glass tubes , open below and closed above with cotton-wool ; they were bent so as to permit both of them being placed in one and the same beaker , or into either separately .
In the first place , the ends of the tubes inside the bell were freed from nuclei by passing them through a flame ; two beakers of cold supersaturated solution were then placed in position under the bell-jar , and their covers removed .
After waiting five minutes or so for any dust to settle , both tubes were next lowered into one of the beakers , on opposite sides , so as to be as far apart as possible .
A dirty wire was now passed down one of the tubes , when , of course , crystallization immediately took place , and was propagated across the beaker .
The second tube , with its adhering crystals , was then raised and lowered into the second beaker , when , the moment the extreme point of the longest crystal touched the surface of the solution , crystallization immediately started from that point , and the whole contents became solid .
A. third variation was then made in this experiment .
One of the two beakers was replaced by a U-tube of thin , hard glass , one of the before-mentioned tubes being inserted into either limb .
Crystallization , when set up in one limb , travelled round the bend and up into the other , from which crystals were transferred , as before , to a beaker or flask of solution also under the bell-jar .
The three modifications of this form of experiment were tried time after time , and always with the same unvarying result .
Solutions which were supersaturated although not perfectly , and therefore less sensitive , were operated upon in this way ; but , even with such less favourable circumstances , the normal crystals always started crystallization in the solution to which they were added .
To ascertain , if possible , whether nuclei , other than crystals of the normal s*dt , were carried by the tube or its adhering crystals , a capsule of sulphuric acid was placed under the bell .
The crust of crystals was by this means dried , and became effloresced to a greater or less extent .
Now , on lowering them into a supersaturated solution of alum or ot magnesic sul501 Mr. A. Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline .
[ June 20 , pliate , they were proved to be inactive , having been changed to the inactive anhydrous salt . . .
, . .
H But such dried normal crystals were active to a solution ot sodic sulphate , even after three days ' exposure to the sulphuric acid * .
It seems as if the normal crystals become covered with a coating of effloresced anhydrous salt which acts as a protection to the underneath portions , in the same way as oxide of lead does to metallic lead ; hence it takes a long time to convert a crystal of the normal salt into the anhydrous by simple exposure to dry air , although it is an exceedingly short operation to perform at temperatures superior to 34 ' 0 .
Yet another form of this experiment was tried again and again , and always with the same result .
A glass tube bent into the form of an elongated letter S was suspended by a plug of cotton-wool in the neck of a flask containing a supersaturated solution ; the solution was boiled , and the tube was also boiled in it , so as to get all nuclear particles adhering to it thoroughly destroyed .
The solution was then allowed to cool , with the tube still in it ; the tube was then raised out of the solution and a dirty wire passed down it ; crystallization was , of course , set up in the portion of supersaturated solution contained within the tube ; the crystals gradually grew down the tube , then through the first bend , travelled up the upright portion , then travelled round the second bend , and finally down the third and last straight portion .
Now , on lowering the extreme tip of the crystals formed at the end of the tube into the solution , crystallization was immediately set up from it as a centre , and thence throughout the mass .
By this arrangement access of extraneous nuclei was entirely prevented .
The upper end of the tube was plugged with cotton-wool until the dirty wire was passed down .
That the normal crystals thus formed did not act by any transient molecular movements , which recently formed crystals might be supposed to have , is proved doubtless by the fact that such crystals were found to act just as readily even when they had been kept over the solution for 5,10 , 24 , and 48 hours , and then lowered into the solution , and when any molecular agitation may with fairness be supposed to have ceased .
* At a future day I hope to have the results of more experiments upon this point .
1872 .
] Mr. A. Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
505 Exp. Supersaturated solutions of common potash alum were treated in the same way and with the like results ; alum , perhaps , affords a prettier example even than sodic sulphate , since the crystals formed in the tube are of an opaque white , and can therefore be more readily observed during their growth .
Exp. Supersaturated solutions of magnesic sulphate were also operated upon and with the same success ; but the experiment is not so striking , owing to the much longer time required by magnesic sulphate to crystallize .
Although pure clean crystals of the normal sodic sulphate are active to a supersaturated solution of sodic sulphate , yet , as might be expected , they are not active to a similar solution of alum or magnesic sulphate , and versa .
For example , let us take a supersaturated solution of alum , and one of sodic sulphate , and also crystals of both their salts , which crystals have just formed and are taken from their still warm mother-liquors .
Exp. A crystal of alum from its mother-liquor was added to a supersaturated solution of alum .
Crystallization immediately took place .
Exp. A like crystal of alum was then added to a supersaturated solution of sodic sulphate .
No effect .
Exp. A crystal of the normal salt was taken from its mother-liquor and added to a solution of sodic sulphate .
The solution instantly crystallized , although another crystal was inactive to a solution of alum .
Exp. A crystal of magnesic sulphate was added to solutions of alum and of sodic sulphate respectively .
No effect on either , but active in a solution of magncsic sulphate .
Concerning the composition of the crystals of sodic sulphate formed by spontaneous evaporation of a supersaturated solution of the same .
^hen a supersaturated solution of sodic sulphate is allowed to evaporate spontaneously , a crust or ring of crystals forms on the surface of the solution , or a ring in the upper part of the vessel ; these crystals are perfectly inactive , as has long been known ; and this has been accounted for by regarding them as crystals of the modified salt ( Na3 S04\gt ; 7H20 ) , which is non-nuclear : but recently they have been regarded as crystals of the normal salt ( Naa S04 , 10H3O ) , and their want of action upon the supersaturated sontion has been explained by saying that , unlike crystals which have even exPosed to the air , they are chemically clean , and therefore free from any film of greasy or other matter ; for this writer views the activity 8'own by the normal salt as being entirely due to impurity of this kind , an not as due to any property inherent in it .
owel made analyses of this salt , formed by spontaneous evaporation , Dp ound it to consist of the modified salt containing Na2S04 , 7H20 .
\#171 ; raday also examined it and came to much the same conclusion , only gave it 8H20 , instead of 7H.O .
There is no doubt that Faraday that he 506 Mr. A. Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline .
[ June 20 , obtained this salt and not the normal with 10H2O , although he made what has since been proved to be a mistake in assigning 8H20 to the modified The writer allowed some supersaturated solutions of sodic sulphate to evaporate spontaneously , and after several vain attempts at last succeeded in obtaining good crops of such crystals , without admixture of the normal salt , which , of course , is liable to crystallize out also on opening the receiver .
The ring of crystals at the top of the solution only were taken .
Results of determinations of water of crystallization in crystals of sodic sulphate formed by spontaneous evaporation .
No. 1 .
'365 grm. of salt , on drying in water-oven at 100'C .
, after first well drying the powdered salt with blotting-paper , lost -170 grm.=46*57 per cent. OH2 , =Na2 S04 / OHa .
No. 2 .
'172 grm. lost *081 grm.=47*09 per cent. , =Na2S04 , 70H2 .
No. 3 .
2*708 grms. lost 1*273 grm.=4/ *00 per cent. , = Na2S04\gt ; / OHa .
No. 4 .
1*260 grm. lost *605 grm.=47*00 per cent. , =Na2S04 , 70Ha .
No. 5 .
3*936 grms. lost 1*812 grm.=46*69 per cent. , =Na2S04 , 70Ha .
No* .
6^ 3*275 grms.lost 1*520 grm.=46*41 percent .
, =Na2S04 , 70Ha .
No !
7 .
3*326 grms. lost 1*570 grm.=47*ll per cent. , =Na2S04 , 70Ha .
Weight .
Loss .
OH2 .
jf0t grms. grm. Per cent. 1 .
... ... . .
*365 *170 = 46*57 2 ' .
*172 *081 *= 47*09 3* .
2*708 1*273 = 47*00 4 .
iiSinu 1*260 *605 = 47-00 5 .
... ... . .
3*936 1*812 = 46*69 6 .
... ... . .
3*275 1*520 = 46*41 7 .
... ... ..3*326 1*570 = 47*11 1 trust that by the above-mentioned results I have clearly proved die following facts with respect to supersaturated solutions of sodic sulphate 1 .
That liquids and solids , such as alcohol , quicklime , \amp ; c. , do not determine crystallization by removing water* 2 .
That thin films , when sufficient precautions are taken to guard agams the entrance of nuclei , do not act as nuclei .
3 .
That chemically clean crystals of the normal salt ( Na3S04,10tt|M7 do act as nuclei and are most powerful .
J^H 4 .
That crystals of the normal salt are not produced in supersaturPP solutions of sodic sulphate on allowing it to evaporate spontaneously , u that crystals of the modified ( and known inactive ) salt are .
In conclusion I may perhaps be permitted to state that the above seri^ of experiments have extended over a period of three years , ^ess^ 0f months , and that most of them have been repeated a countless numbe 1872 .
] Mr , I. Todhunter on the Attraction of Spheroids .
50 times , and with every conceivable modification and check .
Some few of them have already been published in the 'Chemical News , ' but are here referred to again for the sake of comprehensiveness .
At present the writer does not venture to put forth any definite theory respecting the presence and nature of the nuclei which are so universally diffused throughout the atmosphere ; but when it is considered how much sodic chloride is constantly present in the air , and what quantities of sulphurous acid are evolved daily , which becomes partly converted into sulphuric acid , the presence of particles of sodic sulphate in the air would not be surprising ; and that it does exist is proved by drawing air through water and finding comparatively large quantities in the solid matter arrested by water .
Sodic sulphate solutions , too , crystallize on exposure much more readily than those of any other salt .
The other salts which form supersaturated solutions are certainly less diffused than sodic sulphate .
XXI .
" Note relating to the Attraction of Spheroids .
" By I. Todhunter , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 16 , 1872 , In a memoir on the Attraction of Spheroids , published in the * Con-naissance des Terns ' for 1829 , Poisson showed that certain important formulae were true up to the third order inclusive of the standard small quantity .
The object of this note is to establish the truth of the formulae for all orders of the small quantity .
1 .
Suppose we require the value of the potential of a homogeneous body at any assigned point .
Take a fixed origin inside the body ; let r , 0 \gt ; ip denote the polar coordinates of any point of the body ; and let 0 , \p be the polar coordinates of the assigned point ; and , as usual , put p for cos O ' , and / x for cos 6 .
The density may be denoted by unity .
Then the potential Y is given by the equation where r'2 dr djx d\p ' ( r2 -f- r'2\#151 ; 2 A ) ' X * fifi + V ( 1 \#151 ; ju2 ) V ( 1 \#151 ; #** ) cos ( \p ' \#151 ; \p ) .
The integration must extend over the whole body .
2 .
Suppose that r is greater than the greatest value of r ; then \ ~"2r r ' A)~4 can be expanded , in a convergent series of powers of Thus , for example , let the body be an ellipsoid , and take the centre *8 the origin ; let a , b , c denote the semiaxes in descending order of mag-mtude .
Then , if \#187 ; .
is greater than a , the expansion may be effected in the manner just stated ; and so a convenient expression may be obtained for e potential of an ellipsoid on an external particle .
This expression , how-6Ver ' *8 ll't demonstrated to hold for every external particle , but only for i 1872 .
] Mr. A. Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
497 l of moderate depths in the " Celtic province , " recent observations having merely shown that they have a somewhat greater range in depth than was previously supposed .
Probably Spatangus llaschi may simply be an essentially deep-water form having its headquarters in the same region .
Eight species ( Cidarispapillata , Echinus elegans , E. norvegicus , E. E. microstoma , Toxopneustes drobachiensisBrissopsis and frayitis)are members of a fauna of intermediate depth ; and all , with the doubtful exception of Echinus microstoma , have been observed in comparatively shallow water off the coasts of Scandinavia .
Five species ( affinis , Echinus melo , Toxopneustes brevispinosus , Psammechinus microtu-berculatus , and Schizaster canaliferus ) are recognized members of the Lu-sitanian and Mediterranean faunae , and seven mosoma placenta , Calveria hystrix , C Neolampas rostellatus , Pourtalesia Jeffrey si , and P.phyale ) are forms which have for the first time been brought to light during the late deep-sea dredging operations , whether on this or on the other side of the A tlantic : there seems little doubt that these must be referred to the abyssal fauna , upon whose confines we are now only beginning to encroach .
Three of the most remarkable generic forms , Calveria , Neolampas , and Pourtalesia , have been found by Alexander Agassiz among the results of the deep-dredging operations of Count Pourtales in the Strait of Florida , showing a wide lateral distribution ; while even a deeper interest attaches to the fact that while one family type , the Echi-nothuridee , has been hitherto known only in a fossil state , the entire group find nearer allies in the extinct faunas of the Chalk or of the earlier Tertiaries than in that of the present period .
XX .
" On Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
" By Archibald Liver-sidge , Assoc. R.S. Mines , and Scholar of Christ 's College , Cam-bridge .
Communicated by Prof. W. II .
Miller , For .
Sec. R.S. Received June 13 , 1872 .
There is , perhaps , no necessity to describe in detail the ordinary phenomena presented by supersaturated saline solutions , since they must now ' be well known to all .
The following series of experiments have chiefly been made upon sodic sulphate j but before citing them , it may , however , not be out of place to Iniefly allude , en passant , to the conclusions drawn by the numerous writers a"\lt ; l experimenters upon this subject , since the results of my own experi-men , s are supported by the authority of some of these observers and run Is c'unter to that of others .
1 he theories which have been put forth are , in the main , as follow's:\#151 ; u ' dhat the crystallization of supersaturated solutions is caused by purely juechanical agencies , such as agitation \amp ; c. The principal supporter of " s view was Gay-Lussac , who wrote in 1819 .
It has since been shown J 0 be utterly untenable .
xx .
2 o 498 Mr. A. Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
\#163 ; June 20 , / 3 .
That the sudden crystallization is due to some unknown catalytic force .
Advocated by Lowell in 1850 , but since disproved .
y. That it is due to the entrance of a particle of the same salt .
This explanation is favoured by the majority of the writers upon the question , such as Ziz in 1809 , Gernez in 1851 , Yiolette in 1860 , Dubrunfaut in 1869 , j by Lecoy de Boisdandran , and others .
a. That crystallization is due to the presence of fatty , oily , greasy , or \ other matters in the form of thin films .
This theory was propounded by J Mr. Tomlinson in two papers* read before the Royal Society , in which also it is stated that certain liquids , such as absolute alcohol , act as nuclei 1 in determining the solidification of such solutions by separating water from the solution , whereas the thin film , on the contrary , owes its activity to the greater attraction which it has for the salt held in solution .
Preparation of the Supersaturated Saline .
A little water is placed in the flask , boiled , and sodic sulphate added to the boiling liquid until it ceases to dissolve any more and a deposit of the anhydrous salt begins to take place ; the solution is then filtered and transferred to smaller flasks , usually of about 2 oz. capacity ; these are then again boiled up after being covered with a small beaker , watch-glass , or plugged with cotton-wool .
By this method any nuclei adhering to the watch-glass , beaker , or wool are rendered inactive , even should they fall into the solution .
The solutions are always used of such a degree of supersaturation that crystals of the anhydrous salt are deposited during the boiling .
Do some liquids , such as alcohol , act as nuclei by combining with a portion of the water of the solution and liberating a little salt which acts as .
a nucleus ?
Exp. Supersaturated solutions of sodic sulphate were prepared , in the manner described , in 2-oz .
flasks , which were closed with a plug of cottonwool through which a bulb-tube was passed , of tne form figuredf , con taining absolute alcohol .
* Phil , Trans , vol , clviii .
pt .
ii , and vol. clxi , pt , i , _ t The loop was made in the tube at a so as to prevent any fluid from escapes un required .
1872 .
] Mr. A. Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
499 After waiting some time to be certain that nuclei had not gained admittance , some of the alcohol was run out on to the surface of the solution by momentarily loosening the stopper .
This experiment was repeated many times , at different temperatures and with alcohol of various strengths , but never did the alcohol act as a nucleus .
Previous to the experiment the alcohol had been boiled to destroy nuclei .
Exp. Concentrated sulphuric acid was substituted for the alcohol , but likewise with no result .
The smallest quantity of acid was added , so as to prevent any undue rise in temperature , which would of course vitiate the result .
The flask was likewise kept cold by a stream of water .
In a later form of these experiments , a small glass bulb with a long neck blown from glass tubing , such as is used in the elementary analysis of a fluid by combustion , was made use of .
The bulb was first well heated in a Bunsen burner , so as to destroy any nuclei which might adhere to it ; then , while still hot , the open end was dipped into the alcohol or acid under trial , when , of course , as the air in the bulb cooled some of the liquid was forced up into it ; its liquid contents were then boiled and the open end again dipped into the fluid , and as the vapour condensed more fluid was forced up into it .
The tube was then surrounded by cotton-wool and inserted into the neck 'f the flask , and the supersaturated solution boiled up for a moment , so as to render the whole apparatus , cotton-wool included , inactive , the steam Reaping through the interstices of the cotton and not affecting the spirit .
hen cold a drop of the spirit or acid was delivered by merely heating the glass bulb .
Exp. Trial was next made of several solid dehydrating substances , such as calcic chloride , anhydrous chromic acid , phosphoric anhydride , freshly ignited quicklime , \amp ; c. J'hese bodies were placed in sealed thin glass bulbs and heated nearly to .
' ' \#174 ; and then dropped into the supersaturated solution ; the flasks were P ugged with cotton-wool , through which a glass rod passed , and boiled tb * K ^ they were allowed to cool for some hours ; when quite cold 1 ) t Was broken by means of the glass rod and its contents set free , 11 \gt ; as in the case of the liquid , with no result .
2 o 2 500 Mi1 .
A. Livcrsidge on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
[ Jane 20 , !
\#166 ; It should perhaps here be mentioned that each flask was always proved to be thoroughly supersaturated by dropping in a crystal of the salt or touching the solution with a dirty rod , after the substance made trial of was found to be wanting in nuclear power .
From the foregoing it appears that the crystallization of supersaturated saline solutions Is not determined by the removal of water by chemical u agency ; neither do porous bodies , like wood , charcoal , sponge , spongy plati- ij num , earthenware , \amp ; c. , determine the solidification of solutions by me- | chanical absorption of the water .
Concerning the action of In the same paper it is stated that while oils , Arts , and greasy bodies generally do not act as nuclei when chemically clean and in the bulk , i. e. in the form of a solid mass , lens , or drop , yet these identical bodies when in the form of thin films do act as nuclei , and that any substance which possesses a nuclear action has derived such power from having become contaminated with a thin film of greasy matter , which it acquires by hand-ling , wiping with a dirty cloth , or by mere exposure to the air containing the products of respiration and other excretions , \amp ; c. Thus in the series of experiments detailed it was found that such bodies as ether , absolute alcohol , naphtha , turpentine , herring-oil , sperm-oil , castor-oil , and many others , while in the form of a lens or globule , did not act upon a supersaturated solution , but did immediately when spread out into a thin film .
It should be noticed that the oil was added to the solution by removing the cover of the flask , delivering the drop , and then replacing the cover ; or a glass tube was used provided with a shield covering the mouth of the flask : both methods have the great objection of exposing the solution to the air , and so allowing nuclei to gain access .
It is stated that if the finger be cleaned by washing it in alcohol or caustic potash , or by passing it through the flame of a spirit-lamp , it may be held in a supersaturated solution for some time without causing crystallization ; but that if it be rubbed against the sides of the flask , a greasy smear is produced which at once acts .
The writer has repeated this form of experiment several times , but never with the above result when sufficient care had been taken to free the finger from nuclei .
Exp. The finger was made greasy by dipping it into oil and imperfectly wiping it with a cloth ; it was then passed many times through the flame of a spirit-lamp , and finally , while still far above its normal temperature , inserted into a flask of supersaturated solution : the flask was chosen with a neck such that it could be entirely closed by the thicker part of the finger .
The flask was then transferred to a vessel of water , lowered artificially to 38 ' F. , and there kept , with the finger still in it , for sever* minutes , varying in different experiments from 10 , 15 , 20 , 25 , 30 , and 1872 .
] Mr. A. Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline .501 minutes ; and although the finger was strongly pressed against the sides of the flask , which was seen to be smeared all over , yet crystallization was not set up when the solution was made to flow over the finger-marks , which were plainly visible .
That the solutions were not warmed by the heat of the finger , and so rendered inactive , is proved by their immediately solidifying on the insertion of a dirty glass rod .
Exp. By means of the two modifications of bulb-tube , as already described for the experiments with absolute alcohol , thin films of various oils and other bodies were formed upon the surface of supersaturated solutions without inducing crystallization .
That is , a small glass bulb was filled with the oil or other body and boiled , then supported in the neck of the flask by a plug of cotton ; the supersaturated solution was then boiled and allowed to cool ; when quite cold a drop of the liquid was forced out of the bulb on to the solution , then by a sudden jerk the lens or small globule thus obtained was flattened out into a thin film , often iridescent , but without causing solidification .
In numerous instances the temperature of the solution was lowered by means of ice-cold water , so as to increase its sensitiveness , but with no different result .
In many cases the oil or fatty body , such as olive-oil , Russian tallowr , citroneila-oil , castor-oil , \amp ; c. , was dissolved in ether and then used ; this device was used for two reasons : first , so that the greasy matter might be much diluted and so spread over a large surface , and then be left as a thin film on the evaporation of the ether ; and second , so that a much smaller quantity of the oil might be delivered at a time .
Usually the oil collected into globules shortly after the evaporation of the ether , but could generally be spread out into a film again by imparting a sharp twist to the I flask .
Supersaturated solutions of sodic sulphate having films of oil , benzol , turpentine , citronella-oil , \amp ; c. upon their surface have been kept by the " liter for several months together , and some even as long as eighteen months ; it is true that the oil \amp ; c. soon lost the form of an iridescent film , but could be made to assume it at any moment ; and the above lot of flasks were seldom allowed to stand for a day without being made to do s ' , i.e.for the first three months after their preparation and at greater intervals afterwards .
Every now and then a flask was caused to crystal-ze ln order to ascertain that the solutions had in no way lost their sensi-I'eness to a dirty rod ; and when the last flask of all was proved , it had s ' 'd for rather more than eighteen months .
nc explanation accounting for the activity of the thin film as prepared J t ie eminent author of the paper referred to may be this :\#151 ; That in order P ace the oil upon the solution , the flask was opened and exposed to the \gt ; ius affording an opportunity for nuclei to gain entrance ; and also they my.e ^een carried in by the greasy rod itself , for there would be plenty ltne *u Its passage for it to pick nuclei up : such nuclear bodies would 502 Mr. A.Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
[ June 20 , probably float upon the surface of the disk or globules of oil , and would not come into contact with the solution itself ; neither might they touch its surface even when the disk was broken up into small globules , for these globules would be immensely large in comparison with the dimensions of the nucleus itself ; but , on the other hand , when the disk was flattened out into an iridescent film , and therefore one of excessive tenuity , the nuclei might then easily fall through it , come in contact with the supersaturated solution , and start its crystallization ; as it is probable that several nuclei would enter at the same time , they would naturally become dispersed by the jerk , and hence crystallization would be set up at various points .
That nuclei will pass through the substance of a thin film is shown by the solidification which almost immediately takes place on exposing to air the solution covered merely by a film of oil , turpentine , \amp ; c. ; a thick coating of oil is , of course , one of the best means we have of protecting a supersaturated solution from nuclei .
The principal substances made use of by the writer for the formation of thin films were as follows i\#151 ; -Citronella-oil , olive-oil , Russian tallow , castor-oil , camphor in alcohol , creosote , turpentine , benzol , chloroform , ether , \amp ; c. Concerning the action of a crystal of the normal sodic sulphate upon a supersaturated solution of the same .
It is well known that there are three modifications of sodic sulphate crystals 1 .
The anhydrous salt ( Na2S04 ) , crystallizing in octahedra , and deposited from a supersaturated solution on further concentration ; these crystals are inactive to a supersaturated solution .
2 .
The modified salt ( Na2 S04 , 7H3 O ) , containing 7Ha O , formed in a supersaturated solution by reduction of temperature and other causes ; these also are inactive , and admitted so by all .
3 .
The normal salt ( Naa S04 , 10Ha O ) , crystallizing in prisms with dihe4 dral summits , and containing 10H3O , Usually regarded as the best nucleus .
Experiments relating to its behaviour as such will be detailed .
It is always the normal salt ( Na2S04,10H2O ) which is formed when a solution is caused to crystallize by touching it with a dirty rod or by exposing it to the air , \amp ; c. Experiments were made with recently generated crystals of the norma salt .
' Exp. Two beakers , containing fully supersaturated solutions , were covere with watch-glasses , and allowed to cool ; in one of the beakers a sma glass bucket , attached to a thread , had been placed and boiled up with e solution .
Next , both beakers were arranged under a large bell-jar , and t silk thread from the bucket passed up between the stopper and the nec of the jar .
The solutions were then uncovered , after waiting ten miou for any nuclei which might have been disturbed to fall ; a fine wire *** passed down into the beaker containing the bucket , and as far as possi

