[ 157 ] III .
On the Atmospheric Lines of the Solar , illustrated a Map drawn on the same scale as that adopted by Kirchhoff .
By J. B. N. Hennessey , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. JR .
S. Received January 11 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , 1875 .
The spectroscopic observations hereafter discussed were made with instruments belonging to the Royal Society , and in accordance with certain suggestions which a Committee were good enough to make in connexion with my letter to Sir Edward Sabine , President , dated 13th February , 1866 .
In view of my residence at a considerable height , and the exceedingly clear atmosphere prevailing at some periods of the year , it was suggested that the locality was peculiarly favourable for comparing the solar spectrum when the sun was high with the corresponding spectrum at sunset ; any differences between these aspects which might appear were to be noted on Kirchhoff 's well-known maps .
Accordingly I set to work with the spectroscope first supplied to me ( hereafter distinguished by the prefix old ) , and during the autumns of 1868 and 1869 I mapped the differences in question from the extreme red to D : these results appeared in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' No. 123 , 1870 , the Map being marked vol. xix .
pi .
1 ; it is unnecessary , therefore , to dwell on this portion of my labours , excepting to add that the definitions and general procedure there adopted have been retained in the remarks which follow .
2 .
The observations hereafter noticed were always taken in the autumn , when , the rainy season having passed away , the atmosphere on these mountains is exceedingly clear , so that the sun , the object of inquiry , is bright even to his setting , and a spectrum may therefore be then obtained through a long stretch of terrestrial atmosphere corresponding to the height of the station of observation ; on the other hand , with the sun about the meridian , the height of station places the observer above a relative amount of atmosphere , so that the spectrum obtainable at this time and about sunset are highly eligible for the comparison in view .
Accordingly the two spectra are given in the accompanying map ( Plate 25 ) ; and for easy comparison they are placed in juxtaposition .
By " sun high " is to be understood any position for the sun within a couple of hours of the meridian ; by " sun low " that the sun was within 3 or 4 diameters of his setting and yet quite bright .
Indeed it is only when very near sunset that the marked alterations in the lines appear ; so that the spectrum required is not only rarely obtainable , but it hardly lasts beyond 10 minutes of an evening .
In this short period ( when , moreover , the observer is fatigued with previous watching ) changes from the sun-high spectrum must first be detected ; then their position must be identified , and , failing this , found by measurement ; next , MDCCCLXXV .
Y the appearance should be drawn , and finally the drawing should be compared with the original : under these conditions a week may be easily absorbed by a single group .
It is also to be borne in mind that no human eye will endure , without at least temporary injury , protracted watching of the bright solar spectrum for more than four or five weeks at a time ; indeed , though I habitually used both eyes as a relief to one another , they both invariably suffered , and continued to do so for several weeks after every autumn .
The following facts may be here mentioned:\#151 ; In 1.870 , commencing October 17 , I observed 17 sunsets .
" 1871 , " " 5 , " 20 " " 1872 , " " 10 ( about ) , " 20 " , , 1873 , " , , 0 , ^ 35 , , 3 .
In the autumns of 1870 and 18711 continued to work with the spectroscope , mapping from D to F , in extension of the Map already published ; but all desire for publication of these results was naturally suppressed when Professor Stokes gratified me by announcing that the Royal Society had ordered a new spectroscope for my use .
This instrument reached my residence at Dehra , together with two actinometers , when I was absent with the eclipse expedition in December 1871 ; and I need hardly add that after my return I lost no time in examining the contents of the package .
It appears inevitable that instruments should suffer in travelling ; this one did , and the injuries took weeks to repair ; but once the spectroscope was fit for use and I was able to judge of its capabilities , the idea of not superseding the map already published , based on my work of 1868 and 1869 , or of not suppressing the map in hand from observations 1870 and 1871 , was at once relinquished ; thus the map now submitted was obtained entirely with the new spectroscope .
However , I had my old maps as skeletons to begin with ; and adopting Professor Stokes 's suggestion to compare , in the first instance , the spectra by the two instruments , I set to work de novo from the extreme red in the autumn of 1872 , and finished the work in November 1873 ; it was not , however , until the following summer that I was able to forward the map appended , nor have I had it in my power until now to attempt this explanatory paper .
4 .
As regards my station of observation , it is best known locally by Vincent 's Hill * , being a knoll on some property once owned by the late General Vincent : the site is in N. lat. 30 ' 27 ' , E. long .
78 ' 3 ' ; height above sea 7100 feet ; and it commands a complete view of the horizon from S.E. to S.W. by W. The site in question was made available for my purposes through the courtesy of Surgeon-Major R. Whittall .
Next , of the new spectroscope by Grubb of Dublin : it mounts three ( compound ) prisms , which are moved with the telescope by an automatical contrivance for maintaining minimum deviation ; the eye-end of the telescope is fitted with a micrometer , and the highest power eyepiece which may be generally employed gives an image of the dispersion about 3^ fifths of that delineated in Kirchhoff 's maps at the usual distance of reading : * On the Himalaya Mountains , N. W. Provinces , India .
/ LI^ES OF THE SOLAR SPECTRUM .
the prisms are beauties ' , an object-glass , about 1 inch in diameter , is fitted at the end of a rod , and can be adjusted so as to throw an image of the object on the slit ; this provision was exceedingly useful to me .
Further description of the instrument appears unnecessary , excepting to state generally that I am much pleased with its good qualities .
5 .
I now proceed to add a few words as to my reasons for ascribing the differences in certain parts of the solar spectrum , sun high and sun set , in all cases to the influence of the earth 's atmosphere , believing that I can definitely show the relation between this effect and this cause .
I will premise that I now have access to the Philosophical Transactions for 1860 , in which the paper by Sir David Brewster and Dr. Gladstone on the lines of the solar spectrum is given , together with an illustrating map ; and I here make allusion to these documents , because , though the Committee were good enough to call my attention to them , I was unable when writing in 1870 to get possession of a copy .
I have also access to other volumes of the Philosophical Transactions , including Professor Stokes 's drawings in the volume for 1852 , besides various documents on the subject of air-lines , as Report on a Mission in Italy by M. Janssen , \amp ; c. All these papers contain descriptions or allusions to experiments showing the effect of .reflections from various surfaces , and of the passage of light through strata of variable lengths , \amp ; c. And in turn I also ( in keeping with suggestions by Professor Stokes , for which l am very much obliged ) tried certain experiments which I will now briefly allude to .
Selecting a bright clear day , I first turned the collimator to the sun about the meridian , and set the slit for good definition of the lines ; after ithis , with the slit as before , I admitted the sun 's light reflected from blue or white glass backed with velvet , from ink of various degrees of blackness , from coloured solutions , \amp ; c. ; and finally I got a reflection from a distant muddy river ; but none of these , or other experiments which need not be detailed , produced the smallest approach to the lines which were the especial aim of these experiments , nor yet , as a matter of fact , to those seen only at sunset that are plainly air-lines .
Some of the belts are specially deserving of attention\#151 ; for instance the huge shadow 1073 to 1155 of Kirchhoff 's scale on my Map ; this shadow or belt stands out like a wall at sunset , and then not only comes into existence itself , but with it come 1108 , 1114 , and 1121 , which I could .not see sun high , nor has Kirch-hoff shown .
6 .
I now turn to another fact .
When the autumn has well advanced here , there springs up from the plain country , stretching away S , E. and S.W. by W. , a kind of haze which becomes visible at sunset , and which grows day by day in height until it attains to perhaps 3 ' or more above the horizon ; this haze , moreover , grows denser daily , until at last it is sufficiently opaque to obscure the sun !
s rays .
I need not .
in this place enter into the causes which produce this haze ; it is sufficient .to .remark here that 1 have noticed it year after year , and from its opacity and its formation occurring just before winter , I always call it " the winter bank ; " indeed I remember talking about it one evening with the late Archdeacon Pratt , who also had noticed : it , in connexion with some other fact .
Now this haze bank practically compelled the sun to set whenever the latter sank behind the former ; so that in the first autumn of my observations the appearance of the haze obliged me to close work for the season .
Subsequently it occurred to me that the gradual growth in height of this haze gave me exactly the very test I required , viz. sunset varying one day with another from a depression of 1^ ' to an altitude of some 3^ ' .
Accordingly I watched the corresponding effect on the air-lines , and found beyond all question that as the bank rose and the corresponding sunset occurred higher , the variable and air-lines all disappeared , each in its turn .
This test is of course most effectually applied to lines which require the lowest of sunsets to be developed , and the behaviour of all lines is by no means the same .
For instance , 813 is almost as good as a clock to me , commencing to change so early as 2 or 3 p.m. ; whereas 712 ( which is , in fact , the more prominent line , and is , I believe , noticed here for the first time ) hardly presents the smallest change until the sun is under 1 ' of altitude or thereabout .
Similarly , my air-wall ( above noticed ) requires a low sunset , but not so low as 712 .
The test just explained gave a visible connexion between the atmospheric lines and the terrestrial atmosphere ; i. e. the higher the sunset , the more the air-lines were absent .
I state the fact thus briefly , notwithstanding that I tested it day after day , and that I possess abundance of notes on the subject ; these notes , however , are in the main repetitions , which have no interest once the fact has been announced , and I therefore refrain from transcribing them .
7 .
It will be seen that in the portion extreme red to D there are some slight discrepancies between my map of 1870 and my present map ; these are solely due to the far greater powers of the new spectroscope , and not to any want of care in preparing the earlier map : the additions are chiefly due to the same cause , and to some extent are the results of greater skill , which experience may have brought me .
Amongst the new lines or bands are group 315\#151 ; 352 , the additions about A , 460 , 730 , 950 , and elsewhere , not forgetting 712 ( which , I repeat , is a very prominent air-line , but only so at a very low sunset ) .
For further discussion of the map now submitted to the Royal Society , and for comparison with other maps which have preceded it , I must await a more favourable opportunity\#151 ; merely remarking at present , that while looking for airlines I happened to detect a few other lines which do not vary , but which are not given in Kirchhoff 's map ; of this class are 1006 , the pair 1310 , and some others .
I may repeat my conviction , already stated in my paper dated 25th April , 1870 , that besides other changes in the light , as the sun approaches the horizon , there is this peculiarity , that rays of less refrangibility become visible , so that the spectrum appears to be extended towards the red end .
My search , as will be seen from the map , has not as yet extended rigorously beyond F ; indeed examination of the spectrum beyond this line is hardly practicable for the detection of air-lines without some additional provision for collecting light , which , however , I think I could contrive ; with my present means , but little light reaches beyond F when the earth 's atmosphere intervenes to a depth which may be expected to produce an effect , the brightest part of the spectrum being the portion that is last visible at sunset .
ILenrv\amp ; ss \amp ; y. 64 63 62 61 60 [ 1111 h 11111111111111 n i f 11111111111 r 111111 ill Phil Trans. 1875 .
Platt 25 .
35 34 33 32 31 30 29 26 11111111 u11111111 ii11ii111111111111111111111111111 !
111111111111111111111111111111 m1111111 140 139 138 137 136 135 134 |113 112 111 110 109 108 107 106 105 104 103 102

