143 1893.J On the Failure of a Laic in Photography .
Cylindrical Elastict Wave compared with corresponding Diffusive Wave through the Operators .
76 .
The formulfe [ e ] and [ E ] are of a somewhat different kind , since the operand is the reciprocal of the independent variable .
They are proved at once by carrying out the differentiations .
Thus , for [ E ] , _ 1 \#151 ; r2)* " So , by [ C ] and [ E ] we have ( 178 ) i K#(\#171 ; r ) i = w h = .
( 179\gt ; There is an interesting analogue to this transformation from K0 to I0 occurring in the theory of pure diffusion .
Change the meaning of q from djd(vt ) to { djdfvt)}* , that is , to its square root .
Then we shall have 7t 1 livt 5 K\#187 ; ( 5r ) 2 = ^ .
( 180 ) The quantity v is no longer a velocity , howpver .
In the theory of heat diffusion it is the ratio of the conductivity to the capacity .
This example belongs to cylindrical diffusion , and is only put here to compare with the preceding example , which belongs to the corresponding problem with elastic waves without local dissipation .
IX .
" On a Failure of the Law in Photography that when the Products of the Intensity of the Light acting and of the Time of Exposure are Equal , Equal Amounts of Chemical Action will be produced .
" By Captain W. DE W. Abney , C.B. , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1893 .
It has been generally assumed that when the products of the intensity of light acting on a sensitive surface and the time of exposure are eqnai similar amounts of chemical action are produced , and with the ordinary exposures and intensities of light employed such , no doubt , is practically the case , and any methods of measurement hitherto practicable have been insufficiently delicate to discover any departure from this law , if such departure existed .
In some recent experiments 144 Capt. W. de W. Abney .
[ June 15 , however , I have discovered that this law breaks down under certain conditions , and I think the fact worthy the attention of those interested in the subject , since it is possible that these conditions may arise with other'experimenters .
Quite lately I have described the method of comparing the photographic value of sunlight with that of candle lio-ht ( 'Photographic Journal , ' June , 1893 ) , which was as follows:\#151 ; A'beam of sunlight , after three reflections from plain glass mirrors , was admitted through a narrow slit to sensitive bromide paper stretched round a drum of about 4 inches in diameter .
The drum could be caused to rotate round its axis at any speed up to about sixty revolutions per second , by means of an electro-motor .
A small exposure with this light was given to the paper during the rotation of the cylinder .
Subsequently an amyl acetate lamp was placed in position at any convenient distance from the same slit , and a fresh portion of the same sensitive paper exposed to its action during a much longer period , the rotation being continued as before .
The slit was next replaced by a small square aperture , of some 4 inch side , and further portions of the same paper exposed to the amyl acetate light at the same distance , for varying but known exposures , with the drum at rest .
On development the paper showed three images , a narrow band of deposit of the width of the slit caused by the sunlight , a second band of the same width due to the light from the amyl acetate lamp , and a third row of squares of varying blackness of deposit due to the different exposures given with the drum at rest .
If the width of the slit be accurately measured , the band formed by the amyl acetate lamp is evidently superfluous , supposing the usually accepted law to hold good under all circumstances , as by measuring the blackness , or rather want of whiteness , of the different squares , and using them as ordinates to the abscissae which were the times of exposure , and drawing a curve through them , the blackness produced by the sunlight could be referred to that produced by the light of the amyl acetate lamp , and its equivalent value in terms'of the latter light be calculated .
The band of deposit produced by the amyl acetate lamp was introduced as a check , for its blackness could also be referred to the curve , and the width of the slit be calculated from it .
On making such calculations I was surprised to find that in every case the calculated width of the slit was always considerably less than what it was in reality , the difference being far beyond that which would be caused by any error in the measure-ment .
This led ine to commence an investigation into the cause of this difference , and what has already been carried out is sufficient to show that there is a failure in the usually accepted law .
It may be pointed out that if it held good the sum of any number of very short exposures should be equivalent to a single exposure for the same length of time .
1893 .
] On the Failure of a Law in Photography .
The experiment which naturally suggested itself was to expose a sensitive surface to the action of the light of an amyl acetate lamp passing through a slit as before , the drum on which it was stretched being caused to rotate at high and low speeds , and also to place on the same paper a scale of exposures with the drum at rest .
These were all developed together .
An example of one of many exper m ments is given as an illustration .
The circumference of the drum with the paper stretched round it was 12*25 in .
The width of the slit was arranged to be 0*012 in .
The amyl acetate lamp was placed 2 ft. from the slit , and a rotation of 30 per sec. was given to the drum for one exposure and 1 per sec , for a second exposure .
In the first case the time of exposure during , , , . .
0-012 each revolution was x ~ sec. , or about 1/ 30,000 sec. The sum of the exposures during 20 min. was thus 1 ' 176 sec. In the other case the exposure was 0-012 12 25 ' or about 1/ 1000 sec. , and the sum of the exposures was , as before , 1*176 sec. Thus the first-individual exposures had only -foof the duration of the second exposures , though in the aggregate they were the same .
A scale of blackness was made on the same paper , through a square aperture , without shifting the lamp , the exposures being .\#163 ; , 1 , 2 , 4 , and 8 sec. On developing it was apparent to the eye that the first band was much lighter than the second .
The scale and blackness of the bands were measured accurately , and the times of exposure which had been given to each band , on the assumption that the law enunciated held good , were calculated and found to be for the first band 0*6 sec. , and for the second band 0*91 sec. , instead of 1*176 sec. which was really given in all .
Another example is where the slit was opened to 0*11 in .
, and the time of exposure reduced from 20 to 10 min. It was found that in this case the exposures given on the same assumption were 3*7 sec. and 5*28 sec. , the real exposure given being 5*36 sec. The last experiment shows that if the slit had been slightly wider or the rotation slower the law would have been approximately obeyed .
Another experiment was made by throwing an image of the crater of the positive pole of the electric light on a hole bored in a plate about in .
in diameter by means of a lens , and allowing the emergent beam to fall on the slit and paper , the drum being made to rotate as before .
The same kind of results were obtained .
As it might be thought that this difference was caused by some action other than chemical , another series of experiments was undertaken .
In these different sensitive surfaces were employed in order SftL .
MT .
146 On the Failure of a Law Photography .
[ June 15 , to eliminate any possibility of the effect being due to any phosphorescence of the paper , though none could be detected .
Plates were held stationary and exposures made by admitting light to portions of them through slits of known angular aperture , cut in a disc which could be rotated at any desired speed .
Similar results were obtained to those already described .
The quickest rotation gave the least density .
It may be remarked that the more sensitive a surface is to radiation the less marked are the differences observable for the same speeds of rotation .
This is what might be expected .
As an outcome of the experiments so far made , it seems that when exposures less than 1/ 1000 sec. are made on a sensitive surface , arid the source of illumination is an amyl acetate lamp ( Von Altneck 's ) placed 1 ft. from the sensitive surface , the law quoted ante fails .
The question of a very low intensity of light acting and of the sensitiveness to different spectrum colours is now occupying my attention .
Addendum .
July 4 , 1893 .
Since the above paper was read I have made an investigatiori into the question as to whether the foregoing law fails when feeble intensities of light are acting , and find that it does so signally .
Sensitive surfaces were exposed in a Spurge sensitometer , in which there are thirty graduations of light admitted to different parts of the surface at the same time , the intensity of light being varied by its admission through apertures of varying size .
The smallest aperture used was 1/ 256 of the largest , and an exposure lasting 2650 sec. was given to the former , whilst 10 sec. was given to the latter .
It was found that the blackness produced by the two was very different , that produced by the light passing through the small aperture corresponding to an area of 1/ 600 of that passing through the largest aperture , if the law held good .
The light employed was a large illuminated surface , which was equal to one amyl acetate lamp placed 6A in .
away from the surface , without passing through the sensitometer .
As some persons might doubt the accuracy of this method , a different mode of experimenting was adopted in the next series made .
An amyl acetate lamp was used , and portions of a sensitive surface were exposed at different distances from it , on the assumption that the squares of the distances gave a measure of the exposures necessary in order to produce equality of chemical action .
In one experiment exposures were made at distances of 2 , 4 .
8 , 12 , 16 , 20 , and 24 ft. ; the duration of exposure at 2 ft. being 10 sec. , whilst for the last it was 24 min. The intermediate exposures were calculated on the same principle , a scale of blackness was also made by exposing 1893 .
] Displacement of a Rigid Body in Space by Rotations .
147 other parts for different times at a fixed distance from the light .
As a result it was found that , on development , the deposit was greatest when the exposure had been made at 2 ft. and diminished for each successive distance .
By applying the measures of the different blacknesses obtained at the different distances to the curve obtained by the measurement of the scale of exposures , it was found that the exposure at 24 ft. ought to have been prolonged by 4'3 times to give the same blackness as that at 2 ft. , the other distances giving intermediate results .
If the law held good , the actual blackness of deposit at 24 ft. would have been obtained had the same exposure been given at about 50 ft. Other experiments are in progress , but it seemed advisable , without waiting for their completion , , to make this addition to the paper , to show that the law fails both when short exposures and also feeble intensities of light are in question .
X. " On the Displacement of a Rigid Body in Space by Rotations .
Preliminary Note .
" By J. J. WALKER , F.R.S. Received May 19 , 1893 .
Having been led to study more particularly than , as far as I am aware , has hitherto been done the conditions of the arbitrary displacement of a rigid body in space by means of rotations only , the results arrived at in the case of the single pairs of axes seem to me of sufficient interest and completeness to warrant their being recorded .
A comparison of these results with those arrived at by Rodrigues in his classic memoir " Des lois geometriques qui regissent les deplacements d'un systeme solide dans l'espace ... .
" 'Liouville , ' vol. 5 , 1840 , at once suggesting itself , it may be proper here to recall the substance of the latter , and show how far they fall short of the object I propose to myself .
The case of displacement by successive rotations ronnd a pair of axes is discussed in S 13 ( pp. 395\#151 ; 396 ) , where it is shown that ( p. 390 ) , " Tout deplacement d'un systeme solide peut etre represent d'une infinite de manieres par la succession de deux rotations de ce systeme autour de deux axes fixes non con-vergents .
Le produit des sinus de ces demi-rotations multiplies par le sinus de Tangle de ces axes et par leur plus court distance , est ^oab pour tous ces couples d'axes conju , au produit du sinus de la demi-rotation du systeme autour de l'axe central du deplacement , multiply par la demi-translation absolve du systeme .
" Ihen ( p. 396 ) the converse of this theorem is affirmed , viz. , that " Tout deplacement . . .
peut toujours provenir , d'une infinite de manieres , de la succession de deux rotations autours de deux axes non-convergents pourvu que le produit . . .
In this conversion of the theorem above , it is strangely over-

