236 Mr. J. H. Jeans .
Liquid Flow .
{ a ) Pressure gradient .
( b ) Eat of flow per unit width of liquid layer .
( c ) Ratio of ( b ) to ( a ) .
Magnetic Induction .
( a ) Magnetic intensity or force .
( fi ) Magnetic induction .
( y ) Permeability = ratio of ( fl ) to ( a ) .
From this it is evident that the permeability corresponding to a given ratio of thicknesses of the liquid layer is given by the ratio of the rates of flow , per unit width of layer , for the two thicknesses , assuming the same pressure gradient for both .
The connection between the rate of flow and the thickness for a given gradient of pressure was carefully investigated in a series of preliminary experiments , and it was found that the rate of flow varied as the cube of the thickness\#151 ; a result which was afterwards confirmed by a theoretical investigation .
The permeability in the magnetic problem is thus given by the ratio of the cubes of the two thicknesses .
A stream-line diagram corresponding to the theoretical diagram given above was next obtained , and on superposing the two it was found that their lines were practically coincident .
The soundness of the method as applied to two-dimensional problems in magnetic induction having been thus established , the authors proceeded to apply it to a number of special cases , many of which could not be successfully attacked by any other method .
The paper is accompanied by a large number of photographs , showing the results obtained .
Some of these are of importance from an electrical-engineering standpoint .
The method described is the only one hitherto known which enables us to determine the lines of induction in the substance of a solid magnetic body .
It is equally applicable to two-dimensional problems in magnetic induction , electrical flow , and heat conduction .
11 The Distribution of Molecular Energy .
" By J. H. Jeans , B.A. , Scholar of Trinity College , and Isaac Newton Student in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J| Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 14 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
1 ( Abstract .
) This paper attempts to examine the well-known difficulties in con- ; nection with the partition of energy in the molecules of a gas .
A ; definite dynamical system is first considered , an ideal gas in which the molecules are loaded spheres , that is , spheres of radius a , of which the centre of mass is at a small distance , r , from the geometrical , centre .
It ; The Distribution of Molecular Energy .
237 is shown by direct methods that the energy will , after an infinite ' time , distribute itself equally between the five degrees of freedom , but when a wave of sound is passed through the gas , the energy will never have sufficient time to attain to its equilibrium distribution .
It is shown that sounds of different period will be propagated with appreciably different velocities , except in the extreme case in which the ratio-of r to a is almost , but not necessarily quite , zero .
In this case , the ratio of the two specific heats , as determined from indirect experiments on the velocity of sound , would be If , while direct experiments might give any value from If to If , the value varying with the duration of the experiment .
It is suggested that an escape from this dilemma is made possible by regarding the molecules as forming an incomplete dynamical system , of which the ether is the remaining part .
For purposes of illustration , it is imagined that the interaction between the two parts of this complete system consists of a frictional force which retards the rotation of the molecules .
A steady state is now impossible , but it is shown that when the energy ( i.e. , temperature ) of the gas is sufficiently low , the gas tends to assume an approximately steady state , in which the energy of rotation vanishes in comparison with that of translation .
It is then shown that these conclusions may be generalised , so as to apply to a more complex system of molecules , these molecules possessing an indefinite number of degrees of freedom , and internal potential energy as well as kinetic .
The molecules exert forces on one another at any distance , and the radiation is of a more general type than before .
In Part III some of the physical consequences of the view here put .
forward are examined .
The final conclusions are briefly as follows :\#151 ; The degrees of freedom must be weighted , not counted .
The weight of a degree of freedom may be anything between unity and zero , and may vary with the temperature .
A degree of freedom which does not radiate energy will always be of weight unity ; for a non-luminous gas , one which does radiate energy when the gas is heated is of weight zero .
As the gas is heated , the radiation and internal energies will increase much more rapidly than the temperature , until finally , at infinite temperature , the energy is distributed equally between all degrees of freedom .
Finally , it is pointed out that this view is in accordance with ordinary thermodynamics for a non-luminous gas , but that the ordinary I thermodynamics must be supposed to break down above the tempera-f ture ot incandescence , a view which has already been put forward , in a f modified form , by Wiedemann .

