]\gt ; 418 Mr. F. W. Dyson .
which alloy is playing in pyrometric alloys .
IV .
Potential of an Anchor Ring By .
W. Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communlcated by ( Abstract .
) whose central circle is of radius , then and utions oquation , which ainite aFour sutions abtained bifferentiating these ioordinates ooint outside anchor r points and vanish at infinity .
Let these be caIled I and J. Then and are also solutions of Laplace 's equation .
any number of times with respect to Thus , I , , \amp ; c. , are all solutions of Laplaco 's equation , finite at all external points and vanishing at infinity .
ection , finit fluid .
When gnded iscendi p Mr. F. W. Dyson .
foun and the required boundar conditions satisfied .
shown be where and powers , giving from wh ich it is deduced that at any external point urface otenti.anded i This series of integrals is very convergent ; the first three are I reduced to potential of a conductor in the form of an anchor ring is , \amp ; c. , are determined , and it is shown that on the lrfaoe of the ring elliptic tions , and the equipotential surfaces are drawn the rat ios , 1 , of 4 .
to of the form \amp ; .
and ' 452 On the Residues of Powers of umbers , .
[ May 5 , The linear momentum of the cyclic motion also found to be A few cases of motion of the ring are then discussed .
6 .
The arlllulal form of fluid rotating in ative eilibrium is next considered , when the radius of the mean circle of the ring is at least twice as as the mean radius of the -section .
equation of the cross-section is assumed to be , , \amp ; c. , are ] quantities .
Taking the centre of ravity of cross-section as origin , is seen to be of the order , and it is shown that , as .
as the 4th order , The shape of the cross-section is roughly elliptical , the major axis of the ellipse being perpendicular to the axis of revolution . .
" " On the Residues of Powers of Numbers for any Composite Modulus , Real or Complex By GEOFFREY T. .
Communicated by Professor CAYLI:y , .
Reccived April 8 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The present work consists of two parts , with an Appendix vo second .
Part I deals with real numbers , Part II with complex .
In the simple cases , when the modulus is a l.eal number an odd , a power of an odd prime , or doubls the power of an odd prime , know that there exist primitive roots of

