1903 .
] Combination of Hydrogen and Chlorine by Light u The Combination of Hydrogen and Chlorine under the Influence of Light .
" By P. Y. Bevan , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.RS .
Eeceived April 1 , \#151 ; Bead May 14 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The present investigation was undertaken primarily to study the initial expansion observed when light is allowed to fall on a mixture of hydrogen and chlorine .
This expansion was first noticed by Draper and studied more carefully by Pringsheim .
The latter writer attributed the expansion to a dissociation of Ho and CL molecules giving rise to a larger number of systems in the gas mixture than before illumination .
For this part of the investigation the apparatus invented by Bunsen and Roscoe for determining the actinic properties of tight was used .
Bulbs considerably larger that Bunsen and Roscoe 's were employed , admitting of more accurate determinations of small changes of volume .
The expansion was found to be due to a rise in temperature , caused by the combination of hydrogen and chlorine to form hydrochloric acid .
This rise in temperature was measured by the change of resistance of a fine platinum wire , sealed through the bulb , in which the gas mixture was exposed to light .
The rise in temperature in all cases fully accounted for the initial expansion , and the rise in temperature was itself fully accounted for by the heat of formation of the hydrochloric acid produced .
The initial expansion is thus shown to be only a side effect in the general case of the induction .
The investigation then considers the period of induction .
The action is shown to stop almost instantaneously on cutting off the light , so that combination only goes on while the light is continuously acting .
The induction period or time in which the velocity of action has not reached its maximum value can be prolonged indefinitely , but its general character remains the same .
The combination is made much more rapid by the presence of water vapour , and it seems probable that were the gases perfectly dry no action would take place .
If chlorine be first of all exposed to light , and then mixed with its own volume of hydrogen , the mixture shows a greater readiness to .combine than if the chlorine had not been previously illuminated .
1 his property is lost if the chlorine be bubbled through water after the preliminary illumination .
Previous illumination of the hydrogen alone is without effect .
The first step in the process of combination is thus an action between chlorine and water vapour or an action on chlorine alone .
Some evidence as to the formation of an intermediate body is afforded by the production of a nucleus-forming substance in chlorine alone , and in the mixture of hydrogen and chlorine on which 6 Combination of Hydrogen and Chlorine by Light .
[ Apr. 1 , a cloud can condense when the gas is submitted to a certain expansion .
This cloud-forming substance appears before any hydrochloric acid is formed , and thus appears to be due to a true intermediate body .
The induction period , or period of acceleration of the action , is an essential part of the combination , and is to be attributed to the formation of intermediate compounds from water vapour and the two reacting gases .
The nature of these compounds is not discovered , but the view is taken that they are molecular aggregates in which the individual atoms can come into each other 's spheres of influence and so make intra-aggregate systems without much action on the whole individual , which can then break up , giving rise to the more stable systems , water and hydrochloric acid .
This view of the process of the action can be shown to involve the qualitative characteristics of the initial stages of this particular action , and can be .
extended to actions in gaseous systems when the presence of a catalyser such as water vapour is necessary for the progress of the action at a finite rate .
In the case of such actions a period of induction must be expected to occur , and the application of the law of mass action must be made with reference to the intermediate compounds formed with the catalyser .
There is , therefore , no reason to expect that agreement will be found between the theory of mass action , as applied to the end-product equations , and the actual experimental results .

