]\gt ; The of Biotite to Infra-red .
187 A and , we shall have true parallelism of the rays between A and , but the aberrations at and will be in the same sense and will add ether .
This disadvantage can be overcome by the mirrors as in fig. when the advantages of a symmetrical optical system are realised .
The second arrangement , then , appears the best for general use , and it seems to have been adopted by most experimenters , but in actual practice it is found possible very largely to overcome any objectionable amount of coma by adjusting the focus of the instrument when using visible radiations .
The reflected pencils are ic , which for spectrometric work is a positive when with line spectra , but more especially in visual and photographic work , as " " dust lines\ldquo ; in a narrow slit are not in focus .
In order to make sure that the amount of aberration present could not seriously interfere with the use of the apparatus , the width of the coma patch at the focus for the two extreme rays and a centre ray of an assumed parallel beam passing through the prism has been calculated for one mirror .
Owing to the restricted size of the rock-salt prism the effective aperture of the mirrors was not greater than about 7 cm .
, and the angle of incidence of the principal centre rays was about .
The collimating mirror has a focal length of 100 cm .
, very nearly .
The coma patch is represented by the distance , AB , from the centre principal ray to the intersection of the two extreme rays , see fig. , and is a well-known criterion of the amount of coma present .
This is easily calculated ronometrically for the collimating mirror under the assumptions given above , and the magnitude of AB proves to be just under cm .
Using a slit of igible aperture , the coma present at the final focus of the apparatus is obviously of the order of double this amount , and may therefore be completely ected in practice , especially as slits of at least 1 mm. had to be used for this infra-red work .
The followin short geometrical discussion may possibly be helpful:\mdash ; Since the slit would be represented as at angles to the diagram ( fig. 3 ) , we must deal with a " " meridian\ldquo ; focus .
Using the well-known refraction of oblique meridian pencils at a curved surface nd adapting it to the case of reflection by putting and , the xpression becomes If nearly parallel light passes through the prism in our apparatus , we have .
L. C. Martin .
that in general the distance from the point of incidence to the meridian focus , for parallel light The geometrical meanin of this is seen clearly by drawing the radii , fig. , bisecting them in and , and dropping perpendiculars to the corresponding reflected rays .
These points , , are the meridian foci for parallel pencils incident at respectively .
Producing the perpendiculars and drawing parallel to , we see that the distance , , between the two meridian foci for the of the irrors has value lying between and or between and where is the angle of convergence of the beam .
For the collimating mirror approximate values are cm .
, .
Hence the distance , cm .
approximately , or per cent. of the focal length .
The best focus will lie between and , when only small amounts of residual aberrations will be encountered .
The considerations then which would prohibit the use of such a system for ordinary optical purposes are seen to be of less importance when dealing with line spectra .
The actual definition given by the system is surprisingly good , .
The Transparency of Biotite to Infra-red Radiations .
189 shown by a photograph of a part of the red end of the visible iron spectrum taken by mounting a photographic plate in the plane of the thermopile without the protecting slit .
With slits of finite aperture the observed curves will be slightly in error .
Thus the slit before the thermopile occupies ( when 1 mm. wide)just over 2 ' of arc .
With the rock-salt prism and the mirror of 60 inches focus , the length of spectrum , chis to be pure , received on the thermopile is given approximately by the following Table:\mdash ; With the first slit 1 mm. wide , and a collimating mirror of 1 metre focus , the slit image is mm. in width .
Lord Rayleigh* has shown that the observed curve is connected with the true by a double integration , where is the width of the slit before the thermopile , , , , , image of the first slit , is the observed ordinate and the true ordinate .
This leads to the rule for the correction of the ordinate to the curve .
Following this rule , we compute $'/ mm. This , at the point of maximum curvature in the curves subsequently given , represents Drawing ordinates at this distance , we find that the correction is of the same order as the probable errors of observation and it is therefore omitted .
The only effect of the finite slit widths will be slightly to mask true shape of the curves at points of maximum curvature .
1 Spectrum lines in the visible region were first focussed on the second slit , being observed with a telescope by displacing the pile and substituting a 'Phil .
Mag vol. 42 , p. 443 ( 1871 ) .
Mr. L. C. Martin .
reflecting .
The rotation to be given to the second mirror to bring any given wave-length on the slit could be calculated from 's resu ts on the refractive index of rock salt .
In this way the wave-lengths and were found .
Their exact position was determined by the use of the water bsorpCion band in a plate of selenite mm. thick , and the emission band at given by a Bunsen burner .
The position of the water absorption band is uncertain and has been located by various experimenters at differing near , at which it has been assumed to lie for this calibration .
A curve of correction was thus obtained and wave-lengths are located consistently to The whole apparatus is enclosed in a double-walled box to prevent temperature disturbances , and this was closed after the observations on the visible spectl'um .
In general , a fresh calibration had to be made each day as the adjustment is extremely sensitive .
Also the temperature of the whole room was kept as constant as possible to prevent parasitic E.M.F. in the thermopile circuit .
The source of radiation for the work was a Nernst glower , run from a spare set of accumulators .
It was enclosed by a screen of mica ( with a window of thin quartz ) to prevent draughts .
The image of the filament was focussed on the slit by a rock-salt lens , L. This arrangement was found extremely satisfactory , and with care , absorption measurements could be repeated to well within 1 per cent. The zero of the galyanometer was taken beforeand after each .
byplacing a screen between the rock-salt lens and the first slit , as a screen immediately in front of the pile produces erious zero errors owing to temperature differences .
ments of transmission can be made consistently to within 1 per cent. at a given waveIength .
In some of the earlier trials the image of the Nernst glower was focussed on the slit by a concave mirror of silvered glass .
This was of large aperture , and it was found that the heating effect at the focus was considerable .
On one occasion it was noticed , on placing a piece of biotite in front of the slit , that the galvanometer deflection Yose at first beyond its steady value .
This effect was at once traced to the heatin of the biotite , as when this was cooled by .
on it the oalvanometer deflections could be increased .
Ordinary Muscovite mica no trace of this effect .
Dechant*could detect no change absorption with a rise in temperature of 12 C. In order to investigate the phenomena more ] a small electrically heated oven , lined with asbestos and having small windows of Muscovite mica , was employed .
The general arraJlgemenb is shown in fig. 4 .
* Dechant , ' Wien . .
Akad .
Ber vol. 111 , Abth .
2 , p. 206 ( 1902 ) .
The Transparency of Biotite to -red Radiations .
191 The biotite was held in a small frame carried on a rod by means of which it could be brought between the windows or pushed to one side .
A mercury thermometer close to the biotite indicated the internal temperature .
It is difficult to fix exaotly the temperature of any specimen under the necessary conditions of experiment as the crystal must be perfectly free to transmit radiation and may not be immersed in a liquid bath , or even in steam , owing to the high absorption which these expedients would entail .
The method adopted doubtless gives the temperature within a few degress .
The slight radiation which the of the oven sends into the instrument made no observable effect on the galvanometer .
The mica windows , which are of course kept always between the source and slit , reflect a small proportion of the radiation , but not sufficient to reduce it inconveniently .
In making an experiment , the temperature was first allowed to become steady , small irregularities being controlled by a rheostat in the heating circuit .
A series of absorption values was then taken for points between and ( about ) , the observation extending over about two hours .
Most of the work done at night when experimental conditions are naturally of greater constancy .
Four specimens were exactly tested , two thicknesses from each of two varieties of biotite from differing localities .
The actual transmission values obtained from each of the specimens are given .
In general , the effect of rising temperature is greatly to increase the absorption of the biotite ; the transmission is halved at about Although there are minor variations the effect is of the saIne order through the range of wave-length studied , i.e. , from to Mr. L. C. Martin .
Owing to war conditions only one galvanometer was available.for the work , and this unfortunately was not sufficiently sensitive to enable the observations to be carried out far beyond ( which is obviously extremely desirable and which will be done as soon as possible ) .
Under the above circumstances the radiation of the Nernst glower was very weak at points beyond 4 and the galvanometer deflections were very small .
Results in this region must be taken with reserve .
Certain other results which appear to lie off the general track of the curves may be due to accidental temperature variations of the specimen .
Let be the incident radiation , and let be the transmission factor for a reflecting surface , also let be the " " extinction coefficient then very nearly the transmitted radiation where is the thickness of the medium .
For another thickness , ; then and .
It should be noted that the formula given neglects the effect of multiple teflections .
The reflection factor is equal to , where is the refractive index .
It is assumed , as seems probable , that the refractive index will fall as is usual with increasing wave-length .
There was , of course , no quasi-metallic reflection in the range of wave-length investigated .
Specimen No. 1 ( thickness ) Percentage Transmission and Temperature .
See fig. 5 .
Mr. L. C. Martin .
The results given , although consistent , were obtained with somewhat inferior crystal platessecured sxcellent Saces couldL h obtained .
Two plates were selected of thickness cm .
and cm .
, the measurements being obtained for calculation of the extinction coefficient .
The following Tables give the results obtained for percentage transmission .
Absorption values could be repeated from day to day with a consistency within 1 per cent. , as has been already stated , but results taken at the same occasion with exactly the same adjustment are consistent to quite per cent. in many cases .
There are , of course , a certain number of somewhat doubtful individual results , as is ineyitable in a long series of readings .
Results given to per cent. have thus a definite meaning in relation to contiguous values , as is evident fronn their regularity .
Specimen No. 3 ( thickness mm See fig. 6 .
Mr. L. C. Martin .
The temperature eHect is reversible , and a few careful measurements were made on the same day with specimen No. 3 , in order to detect any possibl hysteresis\ldquo ; or ging effect .
Absorption values were taken before an after prolonged heating at C. Other measurements were also made on specimen No. 1 with similar results .
No evidence of any lagging effect has been found .
From the transmission values of specimens Nos. 3 and 4 , values for the extinction coefficient have been determined at C. and C. Results are tabulated below:\mdash ; From a first casual glance at the curves for No. 2 it would appear that rise of temperature acts simply as an increase of thickness , but on closer inspection important changes are noticed .
The absorption band near is seen to become much weaker with rising temperature .
Further , the form of the curve between and alters considerably .
It tends to flatten in the region of , and the maximum transmission moves out to a greater wave-length .
These results are borne out exactly by the curves for specimen No. 4 , and as far as the apparatus is concerned , can doubtless be accepted as proved .
The finite width of the slits used doubtless masks to some extent the true depth of the absorption band , but there can be no question of its disappearance in specimens Nos. 3 and 4 when the crystal is The Transparency of Biotite to Infra-red .
197 ted to about 25 C. The curves appear to suggest that fresh absorption nds might be developed by a further riso of temperature .
In seeking to explain this temperature effect , several tentative suggestions esented themselves .
Firstly , the eflect might be due to a lamination of crystals ( as the result of increased temperature ) , which disappears on ooling .
The result of this would be that the transmission curve at a igher temperature should be a replica of that at a lower ( on a smaller ale ) , as a definite factor of increased reflection would come into play .
amount transmitted at higher temperature ( say ) , , , , , , lower , , en const .
, which is not the case .
Again , if the extinction coefficient increases regularly with temperature , he transmission at two temperatures and will be , assuming a linear variation , , or , if the variation is not linear .
The of the transmission ratios should be proportional to the extinction coefficient in either case throughout the range of wave-length if the constants , etc. , keep the same values .
The values of the ratio are found by interpolation on the curves or the wave-lengths at which the extinction coefficient is given , and , nfortunately , the coefficient itself is obtained partly from interpolated esults ; hence the Table given above must be taken as merely approximate .
shows that , roughly speaking , the magnitude of the variation is approxiately the same over the range of wave-lengths ated , but inspection The Transparency of Biotite to Infra-red Radiations .
199 The oven was heated up to about C. and allowed slowly to cool , mperature and absorption values being taken regularly .
results ppear to indicate an approximately linear variation of transmission with mperature at the wave-length of experiment ; but the errors in temperature easurement may have somewhat aff'ected the regularity of the figures .
Biotite is a mineral of somewhat variable composition , generally containing and fel.ric iron , magnesium , and aluminium as silicates with some ydrogen .
It is found in widely separated localities , Norway and ast Africa , but the specimens on which the present work has been done are rom British Columbia .
Specimens from Norway and East Africa , and also a variety from Ceylon , were tested with the heater , and foumd to exhibit he temperature in varying degrees , but exact measurements have not present been made .
It will be remembered that the mineral has several curious properties .
ts transmission of radiations vibrating perpendicular to the cleavage is normously greater than the transmission of others parallel to the , or normally incident on the crystal face .
No evidence has been ound of a variation in the crystal axes with temperature which could xplain the phenomenon .
The explanation of the infra-red transmission effect which has been escribed seems probably to lie in some temporary chemical change due the rise of temperature .
There is a great difference in the absorbing ower of glasses containing ferrous and ferric iron .
The diagram ( fig. 8 ) hows the percentage transmission two specimens due to Sir W. Crookes\mdash ; Nos. 202 and 246 .
The first , containing ferric iron and cobalt , is mm. Dr. F. W. Aston .
Perforated Electrodes on the thick , and the second , containing ferrous iron , is but mm. enormously greater absorption of the ferrous condition is shown .
regrouping of the elements forming the exceedingly complex molecule with a tendency towards the temporary formation of ferrous salts , wou go far towards an explanation .
My best thanks are due to Prof. , F.B.S. , Prof. Fowler , F.B.S. , and Prof. Conrady , for their valuable advice in the preparation of the paper. .
Experiments with Perforated Electrodes on the of the Discharge in at Low Pressures .
By F. W. ASTON , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Clerk-Maxwell Student of the University of Cambridge .
( Communicated by C. T. R. Wilson , F.R.S. Received May 22 , 1919 .
) In a paper on the influence of the nature of the cathode on the length of the Crookes ' dark space*some difficulties in the way of a satisfactory explanation of the mechanism of that phenomenon were indicated , which showed that it would be very advantageous to obtain , if possible , direct evidence as to how much of the total current passing through the discharge tube was brought up to the surface of the cathode by the.positively charged ions falling upon it .
With a view to investigating this and some kindred problems , a discharge tube was made of the form indicated in section in fig. 1 .
It consisted of a cylindrical glass shade , closed at the lower end by stout glass plate , the electrodes being flat zinc discs just filling the tube .
Zinc was used instead of aluminium as hithertofore , during the work with cathodes of different metals the former was found to give off very little gas and to sputter hardly at all , while the much greater ease with which it may be worked gives it a great advantage over the latter .
The upper electrode , , was movable , being suspended by an improved form of the winch described in an earlier paper , and which has now come into very general use in effecting accurate motion of objects within gas-tight apparatus .
* F. W. A. , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 ) .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 84 , p. 628 ( 1911 ) .

