An Account of the great Derbyshire Denudation .
By Mr. J. Farey , Sen. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read March 21 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 242 .
] It is now well known , says Mr. Farey , to many observers in geology , that the clay strata on which the metropolis is situated , extend north-eastward through Essex , Suffolk , and Norfolk , and are incumbent on the great chalk stratum , which reaches from the Isle of Wight to Flamboro'-head ; and that these , as well as many subjacent strata that are known , dip in general to the south-east , and basset out , or appear at the surface in succession , to any one travelling toward the N.W. , until he has passed certain strata of lias , clay , and sand .
Beneath these , says the author , are found marks of an immense stratum of red marl , which seems ( to him ) to have extended over all the remainder of the British islands .
In this stratum are contained local strata of gypsum , rock salt , sand , micaceous gritstone , &amp;c. : to this stratum also , according to the author , belong the great nodules of slate , green stone , sienite , basalt , &amp;c. that form hills or mountains , intersected by mineral veins , in the western parts of the kingdom .
In many parts , however , the red marl itself is no longer found ; but instead of it various strata , subjacent to it , have been elevated to a considerable height , and subsequently denudated by the operation of water , as observed by Dr. Richardson , in his remarks upon the basaltic counties of Antrim and Derry in Ireland .
It is to these tracts of elevated strata , and their abrupt terminations , or faults , in the county of Derby , that the author 's observations have been principally directed ; and he enumerates a series of four .
different elevations , in succession , one within the other , of which the innermost is most elevated .
The outermost , or least elevated , extends from Nottingham northward into Yorkshire , as far as the river Wharf , this being the eastern boundary of the tract ; while its western boundary extends from near Stone , in Staffordshire , to the neighbourhood of Manchester .
On the south it is bounded by a fault , which the author calls the great Derbyshire fault ; but its northern extent has not yet been ascertained by actual observation .
The second tract , which is much more elevated than the preceding , is separated from it by a fault , which , from the irregularity of its course , is termed the zigzag fault .
The elevation of this second tract , on its southern extremity , is such as to bring the great limestone shale , which underlies all the coal strata , against the red marl at the surface .
The third inner tract is considered by the author as still 400 yards more elevated than the second ; so that the fourth or lowest limestone rock is raised into a high hill , with red marl at the foot of it , on the other side of the great .
Derbyshire fault , which here occasions a derangement far exceeding anything that has hitherto been conceived to , exist .
Of these tracts the outermost appears to have but little inclination to the horizon ; but the second and third are inclined to each other , and to the adjacent strata , in a direction from S.W. to N.E. , the mutual intersection of the strata , or hinge on which they may be supposed to turn , passing from Cromford in a north-westerly direction .
The fourth tract includes Bakewell , and a small district round it , and is surrounded by a fault , which Mr. Farey denominates the Bakewell fault .
The western side of this tract is most elevated , as well as that of the third , so as to occasion a great elevation of some strata of toadstone , in situations where their appearance had not before been explained .
It is in this district that , in Mr. Farey 's estimation , the lowest strata anywhere observable in Britain appear .
He reckons as many as three distinct series of coal measures , separated by thick strata of limestone , and of red marl , similar to that which intervenes between the lias and the uppermost stratum of coal ; and the lowest of the coal measures is that of the coal-field of Derbyshire , Nottinghamshire , and Yorkshire , lying beneath the yellow limestone rock .
Beneath these follows what is called the fourth limestone rock , which extends from Castleton , in Derbyshire , southward to Weaver-hills , near Wootton and Ramsor in Staffordshire .
This he supposes to be the lowest of all British strata ; and to this circumstance ascribes the occurrence of some phenomena , which are said to appear nowhere else .

