250 Prof. Allman on the Structure L^eb .
U , We reached Zamboanga on the 23rd , and on the 26th we passed into the Sulu Sea and trawled at a depth of 102 fathoms .
On the 27th we sounded to 2550 fathoms , and took a serial temperature-sounding .
A minimum temperature of 10 ' C. was found at 400 fathoms ; so that the Sulu Sea must be regarded as the fourth of this singular succession of basins , cut off by barriers of varying height from communication with the ocean .
This observation in the main confirmed those of Captain Chimmo in the same locality .
The minimum temperature reached was the same in both , but we appear to have found it at a somewhat higher level .
We arrived at Ilo Ho on the 28th , and proceeded by the eastern passage to Manilla , which we reached on the 4th of November .
The collections have been packed and catalogued in the usual way , and will be sent home from Hong Kong .
We have had an opportunity during this cruise of making a very large number of observations of great interest .
I believe I may say that the departments under my charge are going on in a very satisfactory way .
February 11 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chau* .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read I. " On the Structure and Development of Myriothela .
" By Prof. Allman , F.R.S. Received February 5 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The endoderm of the body is composed of numerous layers of large spherical cells composed of clear protoplasm , enclosing a nucleus with some brown granules and refringent corpuscles .
Externally it is* continued in an altered form into the tentacles , while internally it forms long thick villus-like processes which project into the cavity of the body .
Towards the free ends of these processes there are abundantly developed among the large clearer cells , smaller , easily isolated spherical cells , filled with opaque brown granules .
WKere .the endoderm passes into the tentacles it loses its large clear-celled condition , and consists of small round cells , so loaded with opaque granules that the axis of the tentacle appears nearly white under reflected light .
The free surface of the endoderm carries , at intervals , long , very slender , sluggishly vibrating cilia , and is overlaid by a thin layer of homogeneous protoplasm , which on the villus-like processes becomes especially d'stinct , }75 .
] and Development of Myriothela .
251 .
i which here develops minute mutable pseudopodia , which are being con-sntly projected and withdrawn .
Indeed the vibratile cilia appear to be It a modification of these pseudopodial processes of protoplasm .
Interposed between the endoderm and the ectoderm is the fibrillated her .
It is extremely well developed , and consists of longitudinal mus-lar fibrillae , closely adherent to the outer surface of a structureless laline membrane\#151 ; the " Stiitzlamelle " of Heichert .
The fibrillated Jrer , with its supporting membrane , is so strong as to remain entire in section of the animal after the tissues on both sides of it have been joken down .
The ectoderm is composed of two zones , a superficial and a deep .
The iperficial zone consists mainly of two or three layers of small round 11s containing yellowish granules .
Among these cells the thread-cells iy be seen , lying chiefly near the outer surface of the body .
Two rms of thread-cells may be here distinguished\#151 ; one ovate , with the in-ginated tube occupying the axis j the other fusiform , with the invagi-ited tube oblique .
The deeper zone of the ectoderm consists of a very remarkable tissue , mposed of peculiar membraneless cells , each of which is prolonged into tail-like process , so that the cells assume a claviform shape .
In most ruations , where this tissue is developed , the processes from several such 11s unite with one another , so as to form branching , somewhat botrylli-rm groups , whose common stalk can be followed into the fibrillated yer .
The author is thus enabled so far to confirm the observations of leinenberg on cells of apparently the same significance in Hydra .
In [ yriothela , however , these cells do not , as in Hydra , reach the surface , / ith the exception , apparently , of their condition in the transitory arms .
the Actinula or locomotive embryo , they form everywhere a deep zone iterposed between the muscular layer and the superficial layer of the itoderm .
This zone is designated by the author as the zone of aviform tissue .
Though it is in intimate association with the fibril-ited layer , the author did not succeed in tracing a direct continuity of le individual fibrillse with the processes of the cells , as described by ileinenberg in Hydra .
The author adopts , as a probable hypothesis , the views of Kleinenberg especting the caudate cells of Hydra , which he regards as representing nervous system .
While the deep layer of ectodermal cells in Myriothela v ould thus constitute a nervous layer , the superficial layer would repre-ont an epidermis ; and since recent researches justify us in regarding he ectoderm and endoderm of the Ccelenterata as respectively repre-enting in a permanent condition the upper and lower leaf of the blas-oderm in the development of the higher animals , we should thus find Myriothela offering no exception to the general law , which derives both 'pidermic and nervous tissues from the upper leaf of the blastoderm .
The structure of the tentacles is in the highest degree interesting .
In X 2 252 .
Prof. Allman on the Structure [ Feb. 11 , their narrow stalk-like portion , the condition of the endoderm departs widely from that of this tissue in the tentacles of other marine hydroids ; for it presents no trace of the septate disposition so well marked in these .
It is , on the contrary , composed of a layer of small cells loaded with opaque granules and surrounding a continuous wide axile cavity .
It is , however , in the terminal capitulum of the tentacle that the structure of these organs departs most widely from any thing that has as yet been recognized in the tentacles of other hydroids .
Here a very peculiar tissue is developed between the muscular layer and the proper ectoderm , where it takes the place of the zone of claviform tissue .
It forms a thick hemispherical cap over the muscular lamella and endoderm of the tentacle , and is composed of closely applied exceedingly slender prisms , with their inner ends resting on the muscular lamella , to which the prisms are perpendicular , the whole structure forcibly suggesting the rod-like tissue associated with special sense-apparatus in higher animals .
It appears to be but a modification of the tissue which elsewhere forms the zone of claviform tissue .
Extending in a radiating direction from the convex surface of this rodlike tissue , towards the external surface ef the tentacle , may be seen numerous firm filaments , each of which , making its way among the cells of the ectoderm , terminates distally in a very delicate transparent oviform sac , which carries , near its distal end , a minute styliform process .
Within this sac , and completely filling it , is an oviform capsule with firm transparent walls , and having immersed in its clear refringent contents a cylindrical cord wound upon itself in two or three coils .
Under pressure , the contained cord may be sometimes forced out through the smaller or distal end of the capsule .
Notwithstanding the obvious resemblance of these bodies to thread-cells , their significance is , without doubt , something entirely different .
Indeed their resemblance to the Pacinian bodies of Vertebrata is too strong to be overlooked .
Their assemblage constitutes a zone parallel to the spherical surface of the capitulum , and lying at a slight distance within it .
Though it is impossible to assign to them , with certainty , their exact function , we feel compelled to regard the whole system , including the bacillar tissue to which their stalks can be traced ( and which is only a locally modified portion of the nervous zone , or zone of claviform tissue ) , as an apparatus of sense .
It would almost seem to represent a form of sense-organ , in which sight and touch show themselves in one of their earliest phylogenetic stages , in which they have not yet become fully differentiated from one another .
This is the only known instance of the existence in a hydriod trophosome of any thing which may with fair reason be regarded a special apparatus of sense .
The male and female sporosacs are borne by the same trophosome .
The generative elements , whether male or female , originate in a spec\#187 ; cavity ( gonogenetic chamber ) , which is formed in the substance of the .endoderm of the sporosac .
875 .
] and Development of Myriothela .
In the female , the primitive plasma becomes gradually differentiated ito a multitude of cell-like bodies having all the characters of true ova dth their germinal vesicle and spot .
They are entirely destitute of uveloping membrane .
These bodies next begin to coalesce with one another into numerous ijundish masses of protoplasm , which develop over their surface minute seudopodial retractile processes .
The masses thus formed still further coalesce with one another ; and iere results a single spheroidal plasma mass , through which are dis-ersed numerous small spherical vesicles , mostly provided with a nucleus , 'hese vesicles appear to be nothing more than the nucleolated nuclei of ae coalesced ovum-like cells .
About the time of the completion of this last coalescence , the resulting lasma mass , enveloped in an external , very delicate , structureless mem-rane , is expelled , by the contraction of the sporosac , through an aper-ure formed by rupture in its summit .
Immediately after its expulsion , it is seized , in a manner which for-ibly suggests the supposed action of the Fallopian tube on the mammalian yum at the moment of its escape from the G-raaffian follicle , by the acker-like extremities of certain remarkable bodies , to which the author ave the name of claspers , which are developed among the blastostyles , nd resemble long filiform and very contractile tentacles .
It is apparently now that fecundation is effected ; for the plasma be-omes again resolved into a multitude of roundish masses .
This phe-omenon may be regarded as representing the yelk-cleavage of an rdinary ovum .
Seasons are assigned for believing that it is through the gency of the claspers that fecundation takes place ; and the claspers are ompared to the hectocotylus of Cephalopods , and to certain organs by duch fecundation is effected among the Algae .
The mulberry-like mass thus formed , surrounded by its structureless lembrane , which has now acquired considerable thickness and forms a rm capsule , continues to be held in the grasp of the claspers during cer-lin subsequent stages of its development .
An endoderm and ectoderm dth a true multicellular structure become differentiated , a central cavity i formed by excavation , and the germ becomes thus converted into a pheroidal non-ciliated Planula .
This , after acquiring certain external appendages , ultimately escapes , by the rupture of the capsule , as a free ictinuloid embryo .
The actinuloid , on its escape from its capsule , is provided not only yith the long arms already noticed by Cocks and Alder , but with short catered clavate tentacles .
The short clavate tentacles become the permanent tentacles of the fully developed hydroid ; the long arms , on the \gt ; there hand , are purely embryonic and transitory .
The long embryonic arms originate in the spheroidal Planula .
They ire formed by a true invagination , and at first grow inwards into the 254 Mr. J. B. N. Hennessey on the [ Feb. H body-cavity of the Planula .
It is only just before the escape of the actinuloid from its capsule that they evaginate themselves and become external .
After enjoying its free existence for one or two days , during which it moves about by the aid of its long arms , the embryo fixes itself by its proximal end , the long arms gradually disappear , the short permanent tentacles increase in number , and the essential form of the adult is soon acquired .
II .
" Some Particulars of the Transit of Yenus across the Sun , December 9 , 1874 , observed on the Himalaya Mountains , Mussoorie , at May-Villa Station , Lat. 30 ' 28f N. , Long. 78 ' 3 ; E. , Height above Sea 6765 feet."\#151 ; Note No. I. By J. B. N. Hennessey , E.R.A.S. Communicated by Prof. Stokes , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received January 2 , 1875 .
May Villa , 9th December , 1874 .
Naturally sharing in the great interest excited by the transit of Venus , which occurred this forenoon , I proposed that I should observe the event with the equatoreal of the Royal Society , which Capt. J. Herschel , B.E. , in his absence from India , had temporarily placed at my disposal ; and the project meeting with liberal support from Col. J. T. Walker , R.E. , Superintendent , Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , I was enabled , through his kindness , to provide myself with four chronometers , a good altazimuth , a barometer , thermometers , and other articles of equipment necessary for the undertaking .
My especial object in view was to observe the transit from a considerable heigand this condition was easily secured through the circumstance that I was located only 14 miles from Mussoorie , on the Himalaya Mountains .
No doubt a station on these mountains would be very liable to an envelope of mist and cloud at the time of year in question ; but , on the other hand , were really good weather to prevail , I should enjoy the advantages of an exquisitely clear atmosphere , such as I have never experienced save on the Himalayas .
Add to this , the journey , as already stated , was merely an ordinary ride , \#174 ; e necessary equipment for my purpose was at hand , and though failure would involve a waste of no inconsiderable preliminary labour , this lawjp I was willing to incur if need be .
Arguing thus , I selected a station some 6500 feet above the sea , and proceeded to find my latitude , longitude , \#174 ; height , to observe for time , and to rate my chronometers .
My numerijW results will be communicated very shortly in a second note .
The remarks here made are restricted chiefly to what I saw with the equatoreal .
The telescope of the equatoreal has a 5-inch object-glass , with abo\#174 ; 60 inches focal length , and is driven by an excellent clock .
The eye-*\#174 ; \#174 ; may be fitted at will with an eyepiece of 55 , 85,125,200 , or 300 powfifj

