II .
" New Volatile Organic Acids , from the Berry of the 1M ourtain Ash .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received February 3 , 1859 .
Whoever has been engaged in the preparation of malic acid from the juice of the unripe berries of the Mountain Ash ( Sorbus Jucuparia ) , canniot have failed to perceive the peculiar powerful odour evolved during the evaporation of the liquid partially saturated with lime .
The body to which this odour belongs was hitherto uiiknown , and only lately , my friend and former pupil , Dr. George Merck of Darmstadt , when preparing malic acid on a large scale , conceived the happy idea of evaporating the liquid in a distilling apparatus .
He thus obtained an acid distillate , from which he succeeded in separating an oily body possessed of acid properties .
To the kindness of Dr. Merck I am indebted for an appreciable quantity of this remarkable body , which has enabled me to examine its properties and establish its composition .
The preparation of the oil from the aqueous acid obtained by distilling the mother liquor of the bimalate of calcium , presents no difficulty .
The liquid is saturated with soda , evaporated and mixed with dilute sulphuric acid , when the oil rises as a brown layer to the surface of the liquid .
It is separated by ether , and after the volatilization of the latter , submitted to distillation .
The first portions of the distillate contain appreciable quantities of water ; the thermometer , however , rapidly rises above 200 C0 .
What now distils is a perfectly pure compound , which , on redistillationi , exhibits a cowstant boiling point at 220 ?
C. Freshly distilled , the oil is colourless , but it soon acquires a yellowish tint .
It has a peculiar aromatic odour , not disagreeable when dilute , but rather offensive when concentrated .
The specific gravity is 1 0681 .
It is somewhat soluble in water , very soluble in alcohol and ether ; these solutions are distinctly acid .
The oil dissolves in potassa and ammonia , also in the carbonated alkalis , without , however , expelling their carbonic acid .
Mineral acids separate it again from these compounds .
The analysis of the oil shows that it contains carbon , hydrogen , and oxygenl in the ratio of C3 120 ; but the determination of the silver in a white amorphous silver compound , obtained by adding nitrate of silver to the ammoniacal solution of the oil , shows that this expression must be quadrupled , and that the acid and silver salt are represented by the following formulae : Acid .
, C12 1 104 Silver-salt C12 EH7 Ag ] 0,1The acid oil of the mountain-ash berry exhibits a very remarkable deportment with the alkalis and acids .
When gently heated ( a temperature of 1000 is sufficient ) with solid hydrate of potassa , or when boiled with concenitrated hydrochloric or moderately dilute sulphuric acid , the oil is readily converted into a splendid crystalline acid , greatly resembling benzoic acid in its general characters , which has the same composition as the oil itself .
I have established this remarkable isomerism both by careful observation of the conditions of transformation , and by the analysis of the crystalline acid as well as of some of its salts and derivatives .
I propose to designate this new compound by the term sorbic acid , thus reviving an old name which had at one time beein used for malic acid .
The isomeric oil obtained by distilling the juice of the mountain-ash berry , the acid properties of which are much less pronounced , may then be called Iarasorbic acid .
Sorbic acid.-This substance is readily soluble in alcohol and ether , less so ia water .
HIeated with a quantity of water insufficient for solution , it fuses ; the aqueous solution , saturated by ebullition , solidifies on cooling into a network of interlaced needles .
The acid crystallises best from a mixture of alcohol and water , in which the latter predominates ; from this solvent it is often deposited in magnificent needles several inches in length .
Sorbic acid fuses at 134 5 ' .
It boils at a much higher temperature , and may be volatilised without decomposition .
The alkaline sorbates are all soluble in water , the potassium , sodium , and ammonium compounds are extremely soluble , and crystallise with difficulty ; the barium and calcium salts are less soluble , and may be obtained in splendid scaly crystals of the lustre of silver .
Their crystallisation is facilitated by the addition of a small quantity of alcohol .
Both salts are anhydrous , their analysis agreeing with the formule Sorbate of barium .
C1 , [ 117 Ba ] 04 Sorbate of calcium ... .
C,2 [ H17 Ca ] 04 .
The silver-salt is a white amorphous precipitate , extremely insoluble in water , readily obtained by the decomposition of the ammonium compound by nitrate of silver .
Both combustion and silverdetermination proved this salt to be Sorbate of silver. .
C. .
C12 [ 117 Ag ] 04 .
The ether of sorbic acid is readily procured by treatment of the alcoholic solution of sorbic acid with hydrochloric acid , or by the action of chloride of sorbyl upon alcohol .
It is a colourless liquid of an agreeable aromatic odour resembling that of benzoic ether , boiling at 1910 C. , and containing : Sorbate of ethyl C,6 1 1,04= C , , [ H7(C4 15 ) ] 04 .
The experiments which I have quoted are sufficient to fix the composition of sorbic acid .
I have nevertheless produced some additional derivatives of the acid .
Chloride of sorbyl is obtained by the usual processes ; by the action of pentachloride of phosphorus upon the acid , or of the trichloride of phosphorus upon the potassium compound .
The limited amount of acid at my disposaldid not permit me to procure this substance in a state of purity , and to establish analytically the formula C1 , 1 702 Cl assigned to it by theory ; but this formula is indirectly proved by the deportment of the crude product , still containing chloride of phosphorus-with water , when sorbic acid is at once reproduced ; with alcohol , when sorbic ether is obtained ; -with ammonia and phenylamine , when respectively , sorbamide and phenyl-sorbamide are generated .
The chloride is not volatile without considerable decomposition .
Sorbanzide.-This substance is formed by the action of dry carbonate of ammonium upon the crude chloride of sorbyl .
White , readily fusible needles , soluble in water and alcohol .
Composition of C12 11702 ) Sorbamide H 12 9NO 21 N. Phenyl-sorbamide is obtained by replacing the ammonia in the previous process by phenylamine .
After treatment with water an oily liquid remains , which gradually solidifies into a crystalline mass .
I have not analysed it , its composition being sufficiently characterized by theory .
Wheni distilled with an excess of hydrate of baryta , sorbic acid exhibits the deportment of the acids with four equivalents of oxygen ; carbonate of barium is produced , whilst an aromatic hydrocarbon distils over .
The limited amount of material has precluded for the present the possibility of a more minute examiniation of this body .
Sorbic acid is obviously the first term of a new series of well-characterized organic acids , closely allied to the ordinary fatty and aromatic acids , occupying , in fact , a sort of intermediate position between the two .
On comparing sorbic acid with the terms of the fatty and aromatic acid-series containing equal quantities of carbon , the hydrogen of sorbic acid stands in the middle C12 H12 04 C12 118 04 C12 -II4 04 Caproic Sorbic Lower homologue acid .
acid .
of beuizoic acid .
The same remark applies to the carbon of sorbic acid when contrasted with the fatty and aromatic acids containing an equal quantity of hydrogen , C8-1804 1211804 1611804 v-J V Butyric acid .
Sorbic acid .
Toluic alcid .

