]\gt ; Mr. A. W. Conway .
-stationary assumption or of the energy method by Lorentz , neither of which is used by myself , but are due to the differences in the fundamental assumptions made by us , both as to the constitution of the electron and as to the character of its motion .
In view of these results , it seems to me that the two electron lodelS ought to be arded as essentially distinct , and that the relative merits of the two sets of mass formulae should be assessed in the light of their agreement with the results of experiment and of their adaptability to the purposes of theory .
On of the Point-Potential .
By THUB W. oNWAY , F.R.S. ( Received February 11 , 1918 .
) Introduction .
By point-potential in this ) aper is meant the potential scalar or vector of a point-charge which is moving in any manner without any restriction except that the speed is less than that of light .
Its general form is , where .
is the distance of the point-charge at a time from the field-point , the speed of light , and an arbitrary function of given by the equation .
The solution for uniform rectilinear motion of the point-charge was given by Sir J. J. Thomson*and Heaviside .
The solution for a eneral motion of the point-charge was given by and Wiechert .
S A method of deducing the result by complex integration was given by the writer and this meth is the basis of the present paper .
The subsequent little .ature is extensive and falls , for the most part , under two heads .
First , calculations of electromagnetic inertia include , for uniform motion , many papers by Heaviside , Searle , Morton , Abraham and others .
For variable motion typical paper is Sommerfeld .
A Lagrangian expansion appears to have been given first by Herglot Schott , and * Phil. Mag April l 'Phil .
Mag April , 1889 .
clairage Electrique , ' 1898 .
S 'Archives Neerlandaises , '1900 , p. 549 .
'Proc .
London Math. Soc Series 2 , ' Got .
Nach 1904 , pp. 107-110 .
' Got .
Nach 1903 , p. 356 .
'Ann . .
Physik , ' vol. 25 , p. 63 ( 1908 ) .
On Expansion of the in two papers by the author .
* The second head contains calculations of the radiation and of the forces at a considerable distance from the origin .
Many results were given by Heaviside , principally in letters to ' Nature .
' His work appears to have escaped notice by most writers on the subject .
Radiation from circulal .
and elliptic orbits was given by him in ' Nature , ' October 30 and Noveulber 1 , 1908 .
Similar subjects were treated by Schott .
Reference should be made for fuller treatment to Vol. of Heaviside 's ' Electromagnetic Papers , ' and to Schott 's 'Electromagnetic Radiation .
' latter work contains many references to this part of the subject .
In this paper ew type of expansion is studied .
Let be any origin of axes having fixed directions in space , and let be the position of the point-charge , being the field-point .
Thelt the point-potential is expanded in a series , where is a spherical harmonic of the angles made by OP with the axes and is a function depedig the positions of and and the distance OP .
It is thus analogous to the well-known harmonic expansions of of the more generad potential .
It is , however , of $ more general } ) , for the origin is unrestricted as to its motion ; it may be at rest .
it move with the or in any other manner whatever .
As , in addition , the point.charge is in motion except that its speed is less than that of light , it is clear that the investigation of the functions is a very wide one .
Ill this ' the convergence of series is investigated and methods given for calculating them .
As an } ) a formal solution of the problem of the motion of a point-charge outside a fixed spherical conductor is given .
In the last , section the connection with the LagrangihIl expansion is iven .
The Point-Potentials .
The electric force and the netic force are given terms of a scalar potential and a vector potential by means of the equations , curl ( .
Let , , be the co-ordinates of at the time The equation in has one and only one real root lying between and , provided that the velocity ' Proc. .
Irish Academy , ' vols .
27 and 28 , the former paper being read November30 , 1907 .
'Ann . .
Physik , ' vol. 24 , p. 637 ( 1907 ) . .
A. W. Conway .
of the point-charge is less than , the velocity of radiation , and that .
We shall oall this ) The complex integral taken round a closed contour which contains only one zero , , of the denominator and no pole of the numerator is a solution of the equation .
The functions are then obtained by putting , respectively , instead of where is the charge associated with the point-charge .
The proofs of these statements will be found in the paper by the author .
* The Harmonic Expansion .
If the position of the origin instead of being fixed has for co-ordinates , , the typical potential now becomes Writing , , , , ( 1 ) here ( , are the polar oo-ordinates of the field-point referred to axes through the new origin having fixed directions , we get .
Whenever we wish to put in evidence the dependence of , etc. , on the variable we can write them , , , , etc. We shall now consider the real zeros of the four functions We first distinguish between two cases .
If we conceive a sphere drawn with its centre at the origin at time and radius equal to the distance from this point to the position of the point-charge at time , the field-point may be outside or inside this sphere .
The former case will be called the external case and the latter the case .
We shall always suppose that the of radius , the being the origin at time , is completely the sphere of radius having its centre the position of the pointchargc .
This condition makes positive .
The differential coefficients , , are negative , for , the velocity 'Proc .
London Math. Soc Series 2 , vol. 1 .
On Expansion of the Point-Potential .
of the point-charge resolved along , is less than C. The four functions thus are all positive when , and go on decreasing as increases .
They each therefore possess a unique zero for the range of positive values of them in turn we find that is negative when and hence possesses a real zero between and is negative when provided that , i.e. , the external case , and hence possesses in this case a real zero between and .
In the internal case its zero is negative when provided that , and hence has a zero in this case ( the internal ) between and .
In the external case the zero is greater than has no zero lying between and The zero is the zero of From these identities we see that ( or ) , and that is zero when and is negative between and ( or ) , and also that is positive in the same range and zero where ( or ) .
The series is known to be absolutely and uniformly convergenl on the following conditions .
lf we represent and as points in a plane of } ) variables then the point must lie outside the ellipse the points and as foci , and passing through the point , where is a series of positive integral powers of has thus two logarithmic poles at or ( or ) , and or .
If the series is convergent provided that is complex .
This be the case if is complex .
Thus we have convergent under these circumstance , the integral being taken around the poles and ( or ) , and the contour containing no other poles of the integrand .
If in particular we put we have the series convergent .
Convertiug tnis to a real taken from to 440 .
A. W. Conway .
for the external case ( the reasoning for the lnternal case will be exactly similar ) we get Since is absolutely we have the sum of the moduli , convergent .
We now consider the case in which is , as is generally the case , a function of and let us consider the series We have the known result that , for values of ) tends to the value and thus is the least value of inside the range , it being supposed that is not near or .
Comparing with , we thus see that is absolutely convergent .
From this fact , together with the identity We get finally Since we obtain the expansion of in spherical harmonics as follows , ( 3 ) On an of the oint-Potential .
441 on making use of the identity the coefficients being given by the expressions .
( 4 ) The proof of convergence breaks down if at any point of the of integration or is snlall .
Let be the at the time and the positions of the point-charge for ?
and respectively , and any of the a value of , lying between and being the field-point .
The angle is the1 ] the angle between OP and O .
It is zero if , and are collineal .
The oone formed by the lines O lying between and will meet the sphere of radius and centre in two culrves , and the expansion ( 3 ) has been ) roved convergent for all points of this sphere except near these curves .
But the function , provided that is finite between and , is finite and continuous over this sphere .
Hence it possesses a harmonic expansion convergent everywhere on the sphere , which must , from the unique property of such expansions , be coincident with ( 3 ) .
Hence ( 3 ) is everywhere convergent , the conditions being that the velocity of the point-char , is less than , and that the sphere of radius having its centre at the initial position of the point-charge encloses completely the sphere having as centre and OP as radius .
Allthe above results hold also for the internal expansion .
It is possible to differentiate the expression any number of times with respect to , and , and still leave the expansion in the same harmonics .
This property will be of use to us .
This is effected as follows : The resuJt of putting .
for in is the same as for .
Thus where means ; etc. Again if becomes the co-ordinates , become , and thus these co-ordinates may be treated as constants and .
( 5 ) Mr. A. W. Conway .
where means , etc. , the differentiation referring only to where occurs explicitly , i.e. in Methods oalculating the oefficients .
It will be noticed that the functions are all of the one type .
the quantities and are functions of .
Three methods have been found for calculating the coefficients .
Mjthod.\mdash ; If we put we have where is a root and is a root of , and being quantities , we have the identity .
( 9 ) therefore and has no pole , logarithmic or otherwise , inside the contour of integration .
Hence we have , ( 10 ) .
( 11 ) For the internal case , making use of the identity ( 9 ) and putting we get , ( 12 ) where is any convenient lower limit which does not involve Method.\mdash ; Under the conditions laid down in S3 , the zeros and ( in the external case ) are unique , and thus given by Lagrange 's expansion .
In other words , a contour enclosing the points and , and no other zero of the functions , can be drawn in the -plane , such that on it .
We have , therefore , On an of the In this expansion it is only negative powers of that will contribute to the integral and these terms are Performing the integration with respect to we get where , in the square bracket , Defining the functions of Bessel type and in the following manner and and denoting by the operation followed ) putting , then we have the following symbolical form .
In like manner for the internal case we get .
( 14 ) Third Method.\mdash ; Taking a fixed origin so that , we may now put in the preceding expression 13 ) ?
and .
In the case of periodic motion we may require to separate the coefficients into their different periodic parts .
This can be effected as follows .
We have If we get ( ik ) , ( 15 ) where the summation extends to the coefficients A. For the internal case we can in like manner make use of the theorem provided that .
This is only possible if out the motion In the contrary case we can write .
( 16 ) Mr. A. W. Conway .
can be treated as in ( 15 ) .
The term will cononly negative powers of and must be treated differently .
The pansion can be made from the formula .
of Bxpansion of the Point-Pot We shall rorbl.evity , examples of the potentials only .
Examples of the forces wili be given later .
1 .
Let the -charge have a uniform velocity the -axis and let the origin be taken at the -charge .
There is thus in this case no internal expansion .
Then from ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , and ( 11 The becomes on introducing a variable , and thus , ( 17 ) a result which cau be veribed by exyanding the known explicit value of for this case , 2 .
In the same case let the origin be fixed .
Then On introducing variable we get the in .
Usin the formula .
( 18 ) For the internal case it is most inconvenient to use the symbolical formula ( 15 ) .
We have to evaluate .
( 19 ) On Expansion of the We get , on expansion , Since if ) and Thus the second bracket yields and the final leLul becomes : , ' .
so that .
( 20 ) Cumparing with ( 18 ) we notice that when the two } ) ressions are , as they ought to be , equal .
3 .
In the case of simple harmonic rectilinear motion let us take kt .
Making use of the equations we get and ( pa siIl ) , ( 21 ) -i.sk ' Mr. A. W. Conway .
and the scalar potential -iske , ( 22 ) which can thus easily be written down in a series consisting of and The vector-potential can , in like manner , be calculated by operating with ( 21 ) on or what is more convenient , and taking the real part .
We get that is the real part of ( \mdash ; iskr ) The field a great distance from the origin has been calculated by Schott .
* When is great becomes and thus we get sk and sk .
( 24 ) These expressions agree with Schott 's results .
For the internal case the motion is not periodic and we cannot expand it in the same form .
Thus we cannot expand in a series of periodic time terms .
In a slightly different case we can get a periodic time-expansion if .
We easily get , in fact , for this case 4 .
For the case of uniform circular motion in which for the sake of generality we take the origin on the axis of the circular orbit , put ; ; , so that and .
Writing 'Electromagnetic Radiation , ' p. 120 .
On of the Point-Potential .
447 then ( pa ) and ( pa ) ( 25 ) For the internal we interchange the letters and in the above equations .
5 .
We can employ our formulae to verify the remarkable expression obtained by Schott*for the potential of a polyperiodic motion at a distant point .
At a great distance - ) becomes / and thus If , then where and so the result at once .
6 .
As an example of aperiodic lnotion consider the rectilinear case .
We have .
The coefficient of where We have , in which if is negative .
the Legendre function is defined as follows ( Hobson ) , ' Electromagnetic Radiation , ' p. 114 .
VOL. XCIV .
Mr. A. W. Conway .
so the coefficient becomes , .
A similar expansion can be found for the internal case .
7 .
Let an electrified sphere move without rotation in any manner , and let us take the at the centre .
Put ; , where , and are the co-ordinates of the centre of the sphere .
Let the co-ordinates of any point on the sphere ( of radius a ) be , and let the surface density be given by the solid harmonic The potential of the sphere at an external point is given by where is the potential of unit charge at the centre of the sphere .
Performing the surface integration , and noticing that by ( 5 ) we have , we get We have by a well known theorem of Hobson that , if is a function of , and therefore .
For instance the coefficient of is .
Inside the sphere the scalar potential is where .
In like manner the scalar potential of a solid sphere of uniform density and unit charge is , for outside points 3 , and for inside points ' Components of the Forces .
Taking a fixed origin so , and and are now respectively the Cartesian and polar co-ordinates of the point-charge at the time .
We have then for the external cass , , etc. For the internal case we interchange and On an of the In the solution of spherical boundary problems forces resulting from the above potentials must be put into the well known forms of two types analogous to those used in discussing the vibrations of a sphere and allied problems .
* In our notation the forces are the real parts of the following , the directions being Type 1 .
Elect , Force .
( 27 ) Mao h Force Type Il .
eotric Force il , netic Force where ) denoles is not or denotes , is .
The functions ) ) arbitrary ulctions ot might be termed the characteristic functions of these solutions .
the internal case we interchange and After some reduction we tind for the external \ldquo ; of lnotion a pointcharge , the normal tric l'orce ' ( 1 ) and the ynetic , I'orce jp , .
where , since , is the real part of ) By comparison with the expressions ( 27 ) to ( 30 ) we can at once infer that the moving point-charge is equivalent to a charge at the origin , together .
Batennan , ' Electrical and Optical , Chaptcr III .
Mr. A. W. Conway .
with two trains of vibrators , the characteristic functions of which are given by the equations ' ( 34 ) For the internal case we find , ( 35 ) ( 36 ) As an example , let us a point-charge moving in a general manner outside a perfect spherical conductor , and let , denote the functions ( and , and let the effect of the sphere be represented by the characteristic functions of first and second types respectively as given by ( 27 ) und ( 28 ) .
The boundary condition is that the resultant tangential electric force vanishes .
Hence it follows that when and and thus symbolically ( 37 ) and ( 38 ) If we take the case of uniform motion in a straight line ; .
We have for this case , and unless when is zero Expansion of the Point-Potential .
G. To calculate the numerator of ( 37 ) find that and .
We put this expression into the form ) of a definite , integral } the aid of the ) and we get In the case of } ) el'iodic motion the symbolical essions ( can be easily evaluated .
Take the case of a circular orbit , itnd being constants , and .
We in this case tJtect noith the If , theu eros of , regarded as a function of , are even in number , and all ill.lginary .
We can then construct a two-sheeted Riemann surface , having connectio1ls along the lines joining pail s of these zeros such that no connection meets the real between and .
The equation has one real between and .
It is a zero of .
Let be situated in the upper sheet of the surface .
Taking a On the closed contour in this sheet , sing and no other zero , we have , integrating about this contour , is the xpansion .
This expression may be written } ) olically - where This symbolical expression has been termed the Pan-potential by Heavisid We can pass from this expression to the Harmonic Expansion as follows .
have and [ and ? .
is any variable .
We have then .
As this sel.ies is identically independent of , we may treat as a constant , and , after the , put 'Nature , ' Janualy 1 , 1902 .

