255 On the Fate of Red Blood Corpuscles when Injected into the Circulation of an Animal of the same Species ; icith a New Method for the Determination of the Total Volume of the Blood .
By Charles Todd , M.D. , Bacteriologist , Egyptian Government ; and R. G. White , M.B. , Director , Serum Institute , Cairo .
( Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received July 1 , 1911 .
) ( From the Hygienic Institute , Public Health Department , Cairo .
) In a paper published last year* the authors described a method by which it is possible to recognise the red blood corpuscles of any individual ox and to differentiate them from those of any other member of the same species .
The method depends upon the fact that if a highly polyvalent isohsemolytic serum is treated repeatedly with the red blood corpuscles of any individual of the species for which the serum has been made , it entirely loses its haemolytic action for the corpuscles of all other individuals of the same species.f Such a serum therefore constitutes , so to speak , a specific reagent for the corpuscles of the individual for which it has been prepared , and by its means one is enabled to follow up and to identify these corpuscles even in the presence of corpuscles of other individuals .
Being in the possession of such a method we were led to investigate the fate of the red blood corpuscles of one animal when these are injected into the circulation of another animal of the same species , as in ordinary transfusion .
As the serum at our disposal was prepared for cattle , the investigations were made with the blood of these animals , and the experiments were carried out as follows:\#151 ; Two suitable bulls ( A and B ) having been chosen , each was bled from the jugular vein\#151 ; about 100 c.c.\#151 ; in order to obtain the required corpuscles , which were washed in normal saline , four washings being found sufficient for this purpose .
A highly polyvalent isohaemolytic cattle serum was then " exhausted " for the corpuscles of A by being mixed with an equal volume of these corpuscles .
The mixture was allowed to stand for an hour at 37 ' C. and then centrifuged\#151 ; the supernatant serum being pipetted off and again treated with an equal volume of the same corpuscles , and the process repeated four * ' Hoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , B , vol. 82 .
t This rule is liable to certain exceptions in the case of close blood relations .
Dr. C. Todd and Mr. R. G. White .
[ July 1 , times .
The serum so treated was now found to be completely " exhausted " for the corpuscles of A , that is to say , in the presence of fresh guinea-pig serum it showed no trace of haemolysis with the corpuscles of A , but remained powerfully haemolytic for those of B. Another lot of serum was similarly treated with the corpuscles of B , and in this way a serum was obtained which was " exhausted " for the corpuscles of B but remained powerfully haemolytic for those of A. The two exhausted sera so prepared now constituted specific reagents for the corpuscles in question , and by means of these reagents it was possible to analyse a mixture of the two corpuscles by dissolving out at will either of the corpuscles with the corresponding serum .
The exhausted sera having been prepared and tested , the animals were each bled from the jugular vein into graduated vessels containing a known volume of a 4-per-cent , solution of sodium citrate , from 2 to 4 litres of blood being taken from each animal .
The citrated blood from each animal was then transfused into the jugular vein of the other , the whole process being carried out as quickly as possible and the blood being kept at body temperature .
After an interval of about a quarter of an hour , to ensure a uniform distribution of the injected blood in the circulation , a sample was taken from each animal and allowed to run into citrate to prevent clotting .
Similar samples were taken daily throughout the experiment .
The examination of these samples was carried out thus : A 2'5-per-cent .
suspension of the sample blood was made in normal saline .
This was centrifuged to get rid of serum and the corpuscles resuspended in saline .
This suspension was then tested by being mixed with equal volumes of the exhausted serum and a 1/ 10 dilution of fresh guinea-pig serum .
The test was put up as follows 1 .
2*5-per-cent , suspension of red blood corpuscles ... Serum exhausted with corpuscles of Bull A ... ... 1/ 10 dilution of fresh guinea-pig serUm ... ... ... . .
0'5 c.c. J of each .
0'5 c.c. of each .
In this tube the corpuscles of B are picked out and hsemolysed : those of A remaining unchanged .
2 .
2'5-per-cent .
suspension of red blood corpuscles .
Serum exhausted with corpuscles of Bull B ... .
1/ 10 dilution of fresh guinea-pig serum ... ... ... Here the corpuscles of A are dissolved , those of B remaining unchanged .
3 .
2'5-per-cent .
suspension of red blood corpuscles ... 0-5 c.c. Normal saline ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
TO " Here both corpuscles are present , giving the total .
1911 .
] On the Fate of Red Blood , etc. 257 The tubes are kept in the incubator at 37 ' C. , being thoroughly shaken from time to time , and at the expiration of two hours the red blood corpuscles are counted by the Thoma-Zeiss apparatus .
Eight animals were injected in this way with quantities varying from about 2 to 4 litres , and in all these animals a similar course of events was observed , the number of the foreign corpuscles in the circulation gradually diminishing until they disappeared ; the disappearance took place after a lapse of from four to seven days after the injection and appeared to be related to the amount of blood injected .
Shortly after the disappearance of the foreign corpuscles from the circulation , the blood serum began to acquire haemolytic properties .
The annexed curve showing the results of the blood counts in one particular animal ( Bull No. 72 ) may be taken as typical of the general results .
This animal , a Cyprus bull weighing 412 kilos .
, was bled 2\ litres from the jugular vein .
It then received an intravenous injection of 2540 c.c. of the freshly drawn and citrated blood of another bull ( No. 73 ) ; this volume of citrated blood corresponds to 2117 c.c. of pure blood .
About a quarter of an hour later a sample of blood was taken from the jugular vein and run into citrate , and similar samples were taken every day .
On examination by the method previously indicated the following results were obtained:\#151 ; Bull No. 72 .
Date .
No. of red blood corpuscles per square of Thoma-Zeiss apparatus .
Percentage of | Foreign .
Own .
foreign corpuscles .
1911 .
April 30 1*4 .
11 -7 10 *7 May 1 0*77 10 -7 6-7 " 2 0*58 10*3 6-3 " 3 0-44 10 *6 4-0 ^ 0 0 The above results are shown as ordinates on the annexed curve .
It will be seen from this curve that immediately after the transfusion the foreign corpuscles represented 10*7 per cent , of the total number of corpuscles in the blood , and that this percentage steadily decreased until the expiration of four days , when they had completely disappeared .
The disappearance of the foreign corpuscles was followed by the gradual 258 Dr. C. Todd and Mr. H. G. White .
[ July 1 , Days after injection of blood .
appearance of a haemolysin for the corpuscles of Bull No. 73 as shown in the following test:\#151 ; Testing Hcemolytic Power of Serum .
Bull No. 72 .
Blood transfused on April 30 , 1911 .
Foreign red blood corpuscles disappeared on May 4 , 1911 .
Test put up as usual with\#151 ; 1 .
Complement 1/ 10 , 0'5 c.c. 2 .
Serum , varying amounts .
3 .
Bed blood corpuscles of 73 ( 5-per-ceut .
washed ) , 0'5 c.c. Serum of 72 . !
Date .
0*5 c.c. 0 2 C.C. 0*1 c.c. 0*05 c.c. 0*02 c.c. 1911 .
May 5 Trace Nil Nil Nil Nil " 6 ... .
Almost C. Marked H. Trace Nil Nil , , 7 i .
C. 0 .
C. Marked H. Nil " 8 0 .
C. C. Marked H. Nil " 9 c. 0 .
C. Almost C. Nil " 11 c. Almost C. Trace Nil Nil " 12 c. 0 .
C. Almost C. Nil C = Complete haemolysis .
H = Haemolysis .
The above figures for the red blood corpuscles are approximately correct , but no great degree of accuracy was aimed at .
The question of greater accuracy merely involves the counting of a larger number of squares in the Thoma-Zeiss instrument , which was not considered necessary in these experiments .
1911 .
] On the Fate of Red Blood , etc. The accuracy of these determinations can obviously be controlled by an estimation of the amount of haemoglobin liberated , and the employment of a suitable hsemoglobinometer , which we unfortunately did not have at our disposal , might save the laborious counts involved in a Thoma-Zeiss examination .
The results of these experiments emphasise in a most striking manner the marked individuality of the red blood corpuscles , and we see that the injected .
corpuscles are not merely not accepted by their host , but are regarded as definitely foreign , and in fact functionate as antigens , and give rise .
to the formation of corresponding antibodies in accordance with the general laws of immunity .
The bearing of these facts on transfusion as practised in medicine is obvious .
Another interesting point in these transfusion experiments is that they give us the necessary data for the determination of the total mass of the blood in the transfused animals , and this method would appear to have the advantage of a very considerable degree of exactitude , as the latter is only limited by the errors of the Thoma-Zeiss apparatus .
As this was not the purpose of our experiments , in most cases the amount of blood injected into the animals was not accurately measured , but three bulls which did receive accurately measured volumes of blood gave results showing the total mass of the blood to be I/ 17'3 , 1/ 17*0 , 1/ 18*7 respectively of the total body weight , assuming the sp. gr. of the blood to be 1050 .
The animal experiments in the above work were made at the Government Serum Institute at Abbassia , and we are indebted to Mr. Gordon , Veterinary Surgeon to the Institute , for mueh valuable help in carrying them out .
Conclusions .
1 .
The employment of specifically exhausted isohsemolytic sera affords a method of quantitatively analysing mixtures of the red blood corpuscles of different individuals of the same species .
2 .
By means of this method it is possible to follow out the red blood corpuscles of one individual when these are injeeted into the circulation of another animal of the same species .
3 .
When examined by these methods it is found that the injected corpuscles are treated by their host as foreign , and in fact act as antigens , and give rise to the formation of corresponding antibodies in accordance with the ordinary laws of immunity .
4 .
Transfusion experiments investigated by this method gave relatively accurate data for the estimation of the total mass of the blood .

