On Metallic Titanium .
By W. H. Wollaston , M.D. V.P.R.S. Read Decemiber 12 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 17 .
] Small cubic crystals are occasionally met with in the slag of iron furnaces , which , from being imbedded in sulphuret of iron , have been mistaken for pyrites .
Upon subjecting them , however , to more rigid examination than they had previously received , Dr. Wollaston ascertained them to be titanium in its metallic state .
He found them not only harder than pyrites , but so hard as to scratch glass , and even agate .
They are neither acted upon by nitric , sulphuric , nor muriatic acids ; nor are they dissolved by nitro-muriatic acid .
They are infusible before the blowpipe , but become superficially oxidized , and borax restores the cleanliness of their surface , by dissolving the oxide .
By nitre they are rapidly oxidized ; and by combining its action with that of borax , they may be entirely dissolved .
The fused mass is soluble in muriatic acid ; and from this solution the alkalies precipitate a white oxide , insoluble in pure and carbonated alkalies .
When evaporated , the excess of muriatic acid may be driven off , and a soluble muriate remains , in a state favourable for exhibiting the leading properties of titanium .
Infusion of galls produces in this solution the characteristic red precipitate ; prussiate of potash occasions one of similar colour , which differs from prussiate of copper by inclining to orange instead of purple , while prussiate of uranium is rather brown than red .
Although the crystals are imbedded in sulphuret of iron , Dr. Wollaston found in them neither iron nor sulphur .
That they are in the metallic state , is proved by the perfection with which they conduct a feeble degree of electricity .
They did not unite with tin , lead , silver , or copper .
From their extreme infusibility , Dr. Wollaston thinks that they have not been formed by crystallization in cooling from a state of fusion , but have received their successive increments by reduction of the oxide dissolved in the slag around them , -a mode of formation to which we must have recourse for conceiving rightly the formation in nature of many other metallic crystals .

