On the Discordances between the Sun 's observed and computed Right Ascensions , as determined at the Blackman-street Observatory , in the Years 1821 and 1822 ; with Experiments to show that they did not originate in instrumental Derangement .
Also a Description of the seven-feet Transit with which the Observations were procured , and upon which the Experiments were made .
By James South , Esq. F.R.S. Communicated June 1 , 1826 .
Read June 8 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 423 .
] Astronomers have generally admitted that a certain discordance between the observed transits of the sun and its computed right ascension takes place , and have been accustomed to refer it to instrumental error , arising from the action of the solar rays on the parts of the transit instrument used .
The validity of this explanation , and the true state of the facts , are what the author proposes to investigate in this communication .
He commences his paper with a full description of the transit instrument used in the observations , ( the work of Mr. Troughton , ) and of which , as accurate drawings have already been exhibited to the Society , no account need now be given , further than to mention the connexion of the cones which form the axis and the tube by tension bars , acting in their interior by means of differential screws , and thus drawing the cones in forcible contact with the spherical shell , which forms the centre of the instrument .
This instrument was erected in 1820 , and its adjustments being made , it was subjected for two months to every species of trial to ascertain their permanence , which proving satisfactory , the regular series of observations were commenced .
These observations are stated at length in the tables attached to this paper and forming part of it .
The right ascensions of the sun , deduced from them , are compared with those deduced from the computations in the Nautical Almanac reduced to the meridian of Blackman-street ; and at each observation , the state of defence from , or exposure to the sun 's rays , of the instrument is stated .
This was purposely varied as much as possible , and in many instances the sun was purposely allowed to shine for a full hour on the brace covered with black cloth , to produce as great a difference of temperature as possible in them , which was estimated by an attached thermometer , and in some cases amounted to 160 .
Yet no appreciable error in the times of transit was found to arise from this severe trial , especially when the means of several days ' observations were taken , whether the computed places of the sun by the Nautical Almanac were used , or the corresponding observed transits of the pole star were taken as zero point .
But the general result of the whole series of observations is , that the sun 's observed right ascension is always in excess of his computed .
This deviation goes in many cases to the extent of a whole second of time .
The mean excess is from 0 " 6 to 0f"7 ; and it appears from the talbles here given to be subject to periodical increase and diminution , its maximum occurring in June and July , and its minimum in December and January .
But that such a result might not rest merely on the observations with one instrument , the author has collected observations made on corresponding days at the observatories of Greenwich , Dublin , and Paris , all which , without exception , give results very nearly agreeing with those of his own observations ; and he finally concludes , that as they cannot possibly arise from instrumental error , or error of observation , he hopes to be able ere long to prove , to the satisfaction of the Society , that their cause is imperfection in the solar tables .

