XVI .
" Experimental Researches on the Conductive Powers , of various Substances , with the application of the Results to the Problem of Terrestrial Temperature .
" By WILLIAM HOPKINS , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , of St. Peter 's College , Cambridge .
Received June 10 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The author remarks , that in giving an account of these experimental researches , it is first necessary to define strictly the manner in which the conductivity or conducting power of a substance with reference to heat , is accurately measured .
For this purpose , conceive the conducting substance to be bounded by two parallel plane surfaces of indefinite extent , the distance between them being h. Suppose one of these bounding surfaces ( which , for convenience , may be called the lower one ) to be kept at a uniform and constant temperature t , ; let the temperature of the upper surface be also constant and uniform , and equal to t ; and let r denote the temperature of the free space into which the heat radiates from the upper surface .
Then , if we denote the conducting power of the substance by k , and the radiating power of its upper surface by 2 , we obtain by mathematical investigation , k t2 -r pt -t It is here supposed that k is independent of the temperature of the substance , and that p is equally independent of that of the surface from which the radiation takes place .
It may also be remarked , that the quantity of heat which radiates from a unit of area in a unit of time , is measured by the product of p , and the difference of the temperatures , t2 and T , of the radiating surface and surrounding medium .
It is the ratio ( - ) which the conducting bears to the radiating power , which has more frequently been determined in researches of this kind ; but this would not have sufficed for the author 's object , which has been the determination of the values of k for different substances .
The radiating power ( p ) probably varies for different substances as much as the conductive power ( k ) , but all consideration of the former power will be avoided if we suppose the radiating surface of the substance to be covered with a thin layer of some given substance which shall take the temperature of the upper surface of the substance itself , and from which the radiation shall always take place , whatever be the nature of the substance experimented on .
Thus if c denote the radiating power of the superimposed thin layer ( which was mercury in these experiments ) , we shall have c t2r a formula which ( c being always the same ) enables us to compare the conducting powers for different substances , or to determine their absolute numerical values when that of c is once determined .
In the actual experiments some error was necessarily superinduced by the necessity of working with portions of the different substances of comparatively small instead of indefinitely large horizontal extent , such as strict mathematical accuracy would require .
This error , however , was undoubtedly small , and , moreover , can have had extremely little effect on the relative values of k , since it must have been nearly the same for all the substances on which the experiments were made .
The apparatus made use of was sufficiently simple .
The heat was derived from a stove , the fire within which could be elevated , depressed , or entirely withdrawn at pleasure .
A very shallow pan of mercury was placed over the stove , the fire being so regulated as to preserve the mercury at any constant required temperature .
A cylindrical block of any substance , the conductive power of which was to be determined , was so placed as to rest with its base just in contact with this mercury , from which it derived its temperature ( t1 ) .
Its upper end was also covered with sufficient mercury just to cover the small bulb of a thermometer .
The temperature of this latter mercury gave t , Careful arrangements were made for observing these temperatures , as well as that of the air into which the heat radiated from the upper mercury .
Precautions were also taken to prevent the lateral transference of heat through the sides of the block , and any influence of radiation from the heated stove which might affect the results of the experiments .
When the temperature ( t2 ) of the upper mercury became stationary , the experiment was completed , and the substitution of this stationary value of t2 , together with the values of t1 and r in the above formula , gave the numerical results required .
2 .
The following were some of the results obtained for conductive powers as measured by the ratio k : Chalk ... ... ... . .
056 Clay. .
07 Sand ... ... ... ... 15 Sand and clay ... .
11 .
These substances were all in the state of very dry powder .
In the last case the sand and clay were in equal quantities .
Substances in the state of rock-masses .
( 1 ) Calcareous rocks .
Chalk ( same block from a dry state to a state of saturation with water ) from ... ... ... .
'17 to '30 Oolites from Ancaster ( dry to saturated ) ... .
'30 to '40 Hard compact limestones ... ... ... ... ... .
'50 to '55 ( 2 ) Argillaceous substances .
Clay , very dry to very moist ... ... ... ... . .
'23 to '37 ( 3 ) Siliceous rocks .
New red sandstone ( same block dry to saturated ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
25 to '60 Freestone ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
33 to '45 Hard compact sandstones ( Millstone-grit ) ... .
'51 to '76 ( 4 ) Hard , compact , old sedimentary rocks ... .
'50 to '61 ( 5 ) Igneous rocks ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
53tol'00 Effect of Pressure .
3 .
This effect was not appreciable for a pressure of 7500 lbs. per square inch in such substances as bees'-wax and spermaceti .
Nor was there any sensible effect with chalk between a pressure of 4300 lbs. and 7500 lbs. per square inch .
Clay which when incompressed had a conducting power= '26 , had when compressed with 7500 lbs. per inch , a power ='33 ; and the conducting power of a mixture of sand and clay in equal quantities rose from '36 to '378 by an increase of pressure from 4300 lbs. to 7500 lbs. per inch .
Generally the effect of pressure is much less than might have been anticipated .
Effect of Discontinuity .
4 .
When the conducting mass consists of a number of strata superimposed on each other , the mathematical problem presented to us requires a distinct investigation , which is here given under a very general form , together with the experiments necessary to determine the effect of this kind of discontinuity .
The result is that if a mass of sandstone consisted of a number of strata , the conducting powers of which should be about '5 , the mean conductivity of the whole would not be diminished by more than about yjth part , supposing the average thickness of strata to be 1 foot ; or by about -loth , if that average thickness should be 6 inches .
This effect is much less than might possibly have been anticipated .
Effect of Moisture .
5 .
This effect was very considerable in those rocks which are great absorbents of water .
The maximum effect appears to be produced by a quantity of moisture which falls considerably short of producing complete saturation .
The conducting power of a piece of dried chalk was ='19 , but became ='30 when the substance was very moist .
That of a well-dried piece of new red sandstone was =-25 , but became as much as '60 when saturated .
Both these substances absorbed a large quantity of water .
Ancaster oolites absorbed considerably less , and their conductivity was affected in a smaller degree .
For a block of dry clay the conductive power was '23 , and became ?
37 when well moistened .
Close indurated sandstone , palmeozoic rocks of close texture , and igneous rocks are bad absorbents , and are very little affected in their conductive powers by moisture .
Comparison of Deductions from Theories of Terrestrial Temperature with the Results of Observation .
6 .
It has long been established by mathematical investigation , that if a large globe like the Earth be heated in any manner and in any degree , its temperature at points not too remote from its surface , and after a sufficient lapse of time , will necessarily become such that the increase of temperature in descending along a vertical line will be proportional to the increase of depth .
In this enunciation , however , it is assumed that the conductive power throughout the mass , or at least throughout its more external portion , is uniform .
The difference of conductive power between the unstratified and sedimentary portion of the earth 's crust , or that between one sedimentary portion and another , has not hitherto been taken into account* .
The author has investigated the problem assuming the crust of the globe to consist of any number of strata of different conductive powers and bounded by parallel surfaces , the problem being much simplified by considering their surfaces as plane instead of spherical .
Then , assuming the temperature of the crust of the globe to be due entirely to the transference of heat from its central portions to its surface , it is shown that the increase of temperature in descending vertically through any two strata , ought to be in the inverse ratio of the conductive powers of those strata , whether the two strata belong to the same group of stratified beds , or to two different groups in different localities .
Such at least must be the result unless we introduce very arbitrary and , as the author conceives , entirely inadmissible hypotheses into the problem .
For the purpose of testing this theory in its application to our own globe , four or five cases of Artesian wells and vertical shafts are especially referred to , in which the temperature has been carefully observed at greater depths than at any other places in Western Europe , or probably in any other part of the globe* .
The cases spoken of are the following:(1 ) An Artesian well near Geneva.-Depth =225 metres ; inlcrease of depth for 1 ?
( F.)=55 feet .
( 2 ) An Artesian well at Mondorff in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.--Depth= 730 metres ; increase of depth for 1 ?
( F.)=57 feet .
( 3 ) An Artesian well at New-Saltzwerk in Westphalia.-Depth =644'5 metres ; increase of depth for 1 ?
( F.)==54 feet .
( 4 ) The Puis de Grenelle at Paris.-Depth=546 metres ; increase of depth for 1 ?
( F.)= 60 feet .
( 5 ) A coal shaft at Duckenfield , near Manchester.-Depth =1400 feet ; increase of depth for 1 ?
( F.)= 65 feet .
( 6 ) A coal shaft at Monkwearmouth.-Depth about 1700 or 1800 feet ; increase of depth for 1 ?
( F. ) about=60 feet .
The general rate of increase of temperature in our own deeper coal-mines is that of about 1 ?
( F. ) for 60 feet in depth ; and the same result has been obtained for many parts of the chalk in Northern France .
These cases present a remarkable approximation to uniformity , whereas the conductive powers of the strata which have been penetrated are very different .
Cases ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) present the best means of comparison .
The Puis de Grenelle passes through nearly 500 metres of chalk , the conducting power of which is estimated by the author at somewhat more than '25 , while the mean conducting power of the rocks through which the coal shaft at Duckenfield passes , is estimated , by means of experiments performed on specimens of these rocks , at rather more than *5 .
This is about twice as much as in the former case , whereas the depths corresponding to the same increase of temperature are only as 65 to 60 , instead of being in the ratio of about 65 to 35 , as they ought to be according to the theory here considered .
In all the other cases the conductive powers of the masses penetrated are doubtless greater than that of the chalk at Paris , though , for the most part , they present a more rapid increase of teniperature in descending , instead of a less rapid increase ( as this theory would prescribe ) than the &amp; Puis de Grenelle .
Within the region comprising the cases above cited , there are many local variations as to the rate of increase of terrestrial temperature in descending below the earth 's surface .
The author conceives that these phenomena cannot be accounted for according to this theory without the introduction of arbitrary hypotheses .
Upon the whole , he believes that in the present state of our knowledge of terrestrial temperature , it is impossible to account for its phenomena by regarding them as the consequence simply of heat , not generated in , but transmitted through the crust of the globe from some deep-seated central source .
The discrepancy between the actual terrestrial temperatures and those which would be assigned by the theory here discussed , may be illustrated perhaps by placing the subject in a rather different point of view .
It is assumed in the theoretical investigation , that the isothermal surfaces at depths sufficiently great ( as 50 or 100 miles for example ) are approximately concentric with the earth 's external surface , or , speaking with reference to areas not too large , parallel to that surface , in which case it is proved that the isothermal surfaces at comparatively small depths ( not much exceeding that of the sedimentary beds ) cannot be parallel to the external surface .
For example , the depth of an isothermal surface of given temperature , which should be some 3000 feet at the Puis de Grenelle , ought to be nearly 6000 feet at the coal shaft at Duckenfield ; and at other places it ought to be very nearly proportional to the conductive power of the terrestrial mass lying above it .
But the observations above cited demonstrate that , independently of local irregularities , such an isothermal surface is nearly at equal depths throughout the whole region of Western Europe .
No theory of terrestrial temperature , then , can meet the requirements of observation which does not account for isothermal surfaces approximately parallel ( with local variations ) to the earth 's external surface at comparatively small depths beneath it .
Moreover , it is easily shown that the quantity of heat transmitted from such a surface to the external surface , must be proportional to the conductive power 2 R of the superincumbent mass through which the transmission takes place ( in the previous case the quantity of transmitted heat is independent of that power ) .
Consequently , whatever may be the cause supplying the heat at depths not much exceeding the general aggregate depth of the sedimentary beds , it must furnish a quantity of heat proportional to the vertical flow of heat , i. e. a quantity proportional to the conductive power of the superincumbent mass .
Thus the energy of the producing cause must have distinct relations to superficial conditions .
Must not , then , the cause itself be at least partly superficial , and not entirely central ?
The author is convinced that such must be the case .
He does not profess , in this paper , to carry his speculations further .
It should be remarked that the argument derived from the above investigations is not directly against the theory of a primitive heat , but only against the manifestation of the remains of such heat as the sole cause of existing terrestrial temperatures in the superficial crust of the globe , at depths beyond the sensible effect of the direct solar heat .
Whatever may be the weight of the argument in favour of the earth 's original fluidity ( and therefore of its primitive heat ) , founded on the oblateness of its form , for example , the cogency of such argument remains unaltered .
At the same time , all the collateral arguments in favour of primitive heat , founded on the existing temperature of the earth 's crust , or the climatal changes which are believed to have taken place on its surface , are deprived , the author conceives , of nearly all their weight .
Moreover , admitting only a part of the existing terrestrial heat to be due to superficial causes , the flow of heat from the earth 's central portions must be less by that amount than if the whole flow were due to central heat .
Consequently the rate of increase of terrestrial temperature due to theflow of central heat must be proportionally diminished , and the depth at which we should arrive at the temperature of filsion proportionally increased .
The conclusion , therefore , that the earth 's solid crust is as thin as some geologists have supposed it to be , as well as all theories based on that conclusion-whether of volcanic action , or of elevation and depression of the earth 's surface--must be deprived of nearly all their force .
The remainder of this paper contains details of experiments , and descriptions of the apparatus used in making them .

