389 1884.1 Theory of Continuous Calculating Machines , Sfc .
which may be neglected ; and we have\#151 ; / \gt ; 2c r ; KXVDAJ L1 - ' - \#166 ; * J . .
( 13 ) , which shows that at a distance of 4 centime , from either end , the temperature is less than in the middle by e-1 , that is 1/ 2*7 of the middle temperature ; at 8 centims. it is less by 1/ 7*4 ; and at 12 centims. it is less by 1/ 20 .
Thus we see that the cooling by the ends is very sensible through a quarter of the length from either end ; and must be carefully allowed for by aid of ( 7 ) , unless lengths of considerably more than half a metre are taken .
But we also see that the results stated in this preliminary paper are not sensibly affected , or hardly sensibly affected , by cooling from the ends .
XVII .
" The Theory of Continuous Calculating Machines , and of a Mechanism on a New Principle for this and other purposes .
" By H. S. Heal Shaw .
Communicated by Sir William Thomson .
Received June 19 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The paper commences with a statement of the conditions which must be fulfilled by the mechanism of a continuous calculating machine of the most general kind .
It is shown that both the operations of differentiation and integration must be performed by such an instrument .
The only hitherto known mechanisms with which it appears possible to accomplish this are the " disk and roller , " and its modification the disk-globe and cylinder-integrator , or with some device which relies on the same principle of action .
A brief account is given of the applications of the disk and roller itself , which mechanism was first suggested by Poncelet , for integrating the products of the two variables in a traction ergometer , and has since been applied by various inventors\#151 ; the disk being sometimes replaced by a cone , as a planimeter or platometer and integrator .
The applications for the converse process of differentiation are less known , and do not appear to have been brought into successful operation .
' A speed indicator , in which a screw replaced the usual axis of the roller , the roller forming the nut , was made three years ago by the author .
In this case the screw was driven at a speed which varied with the space passed over by the moving body , and the disk at a constant speed by a clock .
The position of the roller on the disk was 190 Theory of Continuous Calculating Sfc .
[ June 19 , then a measure of the ratio of the increase of space to that of time , and in the limit is a measure of their differential coefficient , that is ( since v--\#151 ; ) a direct measure of the velocity of the moving body .
at The author afterwards found that this idea had been suggested some time previously by a correspondent in " Engineering .
" Quite recently ( May 24th ) a speed indicator on this principle , hut with a cone instead of a disk , was exhibited before the Physical Society , and at the same meeting the Secretary himself showed the disk and roller speed indicator which he had re-invented .
The disk and roller has , however , two kinds of defects , which account for its practical failure for the foregoing purpose , and render its accuracy as an integrator almost a matter of impossibility ; though in the latter case the error for reasons which are explained is more difficult to detect .
These kinds of defects are ( 1 .
) Those which are the mechanical result of the principle of action itself ; ( 2 .
) The limited range of action of .
the instrument .
( 1 .
) The very conditions under which the mechanism acts are contradictory , and are shown to lead to three special defects:\#151 ; ( i. ) Grinding action between the edge of the roller and the face of the disk .
( ii .
) Necessity for the application of force , in order to change the position of the roller .
( iii .
) Error in numerical results .
These defects are considered , and a modification of the disk-globe and cylinder-indicator of Professor James Thomson , which was designed to obviate them , is suggested for the converse process .
( 2 .
) The second kind of defect led the author to modify the disk and roller , so that a range of action , in theory infinitely great , was obtained .
This is not so easy to use , the graduation of the scale having to be made according to an equation y== x\#151 ; , instead of Jtt \#151 ; X simply y\#151 ; T\amp ; x , as in the first form ; but it was new , and led to the fact being made clear that there was a close analogy between these two forms and two forms of what may be called the " sphere and roller mechanism , " which with certain results were communicated to the Physical Section of the Bristol Naturalists ' Society in November last .
It was the endeavour to overcome the frictional defects of the disk and roller which still remain in this form of mechanism , and to render the application of the sphere and roller possible for practical purposes , that led to the investigation which forms the real subject of the paper .
1884 .
] The Index of Refraction of Liquefied Gases .
191 The result lias been a mechanism , which consists of two distinct p |features:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) A mechanical principle , by which an arrangement of spheres sand rollers is made capable of transmitting motion , which can be independently varied in any required manner .
( 2 .
) The arrangement by which mathematical results can be at once obtained with any required numerical quantities , however large .
The rest of the paper consists in a discussion of these principles , and of the practical applications which , beside enabling the operations already mentioned to be performed , enable logarithms and roots to be calculated , besides giving a convenient computator for reducing tables of results .
The almost entire absence of friction enables a chain of spheres and rollers to be employed in a very compact form and with accurate result .
Thus , with two sets , the moment of an area , the integration of volumes , \amp ; c. , can be obtained ; with three , the moment of inertia , and other results .
In fact , the operation Jf^o ; ) .
F2(\#171 ; ) . . .
In { x)dx can be performed with n sets of the fundamental form of mechanism .
By using the screw arrangement , the value of a ratio or differential coefficient can be obtained ; and , by using two sets , the second dif-f ferential coefficient , or =acceleration , , if or rate of change of velocity , is given .
By using the integrating and differentiating mechanism in conjunction , rate of , or H. P. 38 can be indicated on a dial .
Various practical applications , such as a planimeter , a sliding rule for giving at once A , M , and I , a H. P. indicator are shown .
Finally , Id the application of the mechanism to the transmission of power is con-i sidered , as well as the mechanics of problem , and a modification of an \#171 ; important nature for the roller bearings is described and illustrated .
XVIII .
" On the Experimental Determination of the Index of Refraction of Liquefied Gases .
" By Dr. L. Bleekrode .
Communicated by Dr. Gladstone , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1884 .
[ Publication deferred .
] The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , November 20th .

