482 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ Apr. 3r The paper concludes with some notes by Professor Maskelyne , on the connexion between molecular phosphorescence and crystalline structure .
The crystals experimented on have been the diamond , emerald , beryl , sapphire , ruby , quartz , phenakite , tinstone , hyacinth ( zircon ) , tourmaline , andalusite , enstatite , minerals of the augite class , apatite , topaz , chrysoberyl , peridot , garnet , and boracite .
Of these , the only crystals which give out light are diamond , ruby , emerald , , sapphire , tinstone , and hyacinth .
The light from emerald is crimson , and is polarised , apparently completely , in a plane perpendicular to the axis .
Sapphire gives out a bluish-grey and a red light polarised in a plane perpendicular to the axis .
The ruby light exhibits no marked distinction in the plane of its polarisation .
Among positive crystals tinstone glows with a fine yellow light , polarised in a plane parallel to the axis of the crystal .
So far the experiments accord with the quicker vibrations being those called into play , , and therefore in a negative crystal the extraordinary , and in a positive crystal the ordinary , is the ray evoked .
Hyacinth , however , introduces a new phenomenon , being dichroic , the colours , in three different crystals , being pale pink and lavender\#151 ; blue , pale blue and deep violet , and yellow and deep violet-blue , polarised in opposite planes .
The only conclusion arrived at is , that the rays , whose direction of vibration corresponds to the direction of maximum optical elasticity in the crystal , are always originated where any light is given out .
As yet , however , the induction on which so remarkable a principle is suggested , cannot be considered sufficiently extended to justify that principle being accepted as other than probable .
YI .
" Note on a Direct Yision Spectroscope after Thollon 's ' Plan , adapted to Laboratory use , and capable of giving exact Measurements .
" By Gr .
D. Liveing , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received April 3 , 1879 .
' Having seen in the " Journal de Physique " for May , 1878 , the account of M. Thollon 's ingenious direct vision spectroscope , it occurred to us that by a little modification we could adapt his plan so as to produce an instrument well fitted for the work in which we were engaged , combining the advantage of excellent definition , which his plan secures , with the means of getting exact measurements with the least possible chance of errors of adjustment or inequalities in the working of the automatic system .
The principle consists in having two prisms only ( half prisms as M. Thollon calls them ) , of which one-is fixed , and receives the light from the collimator by a reflecting 1879 .
] On a Direct Vision Spectroscope .
483 prism and transmits it in a plane at right angles to the axis of the collimator to the second prism .
This second prisim is moveable about an axis parallel to its edge and to the axis of the telescope , and has a right angled reflecting prism attached to it , so that the light after traversing this prism twice passes the second time through the fixed prism and so by reflection into the telescope .
The lever carrying the second prism with its reflecting prism is moved by a micrometer screw , by the head of which the movement of the prism is read .
We placed the design in the hands of Mr. Hilger , some time since , and we now exhibit the instrument to the Society .
In the last number of the " Journal de Physique , " M. Thollon describes some modification of his instrument , but it does not seem that his modified plan is so well adapted to the ordinary use of a chemical laboratory as ours .
The accompanying diagram represents a section through the prisms at right angles to the axis of the collimator and telescope .
April 24 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for-them .
The Right Hon. Richard Assheton Cross , Secretary of State for the-Home Department , was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ;

