III .
" Preliminary Note on some Aluminium Compounds .
" By GEORGE BOWDLER BUCKTON , F.R.S. , and WILLIAM ODLING , M.B. , F.R.S. Received January 12 , 1865 .
Until recently the molecule of aluminic chloride had always been represented by the formula Al2 Cl , or , selecting the high atomnic weight of aluminium , as required by its specific heat , Al Cl3 .
But since Deville 's determination of the vapour-densities of aluminic and ferric chlorides , many chemists of eminence , both in this country and abroad , have adopted the formula A12 C16 , and have consistently doubled the previously received formulae for the entire series of aluminic compounds .
In our opinion , however , the hitherto existing data seemed hardly sufficient for the definitive establishment of either set of formule ; and it occurred to us that an examination of the so-called organo-compounds of aluminium inight not improbably throw some important light upon the question at issue between them .
We regarded the determination of the question as a matter of conc siderable interest from the bearing it would necessarily have upon the position of aluminium in a natural classification of the elements ; upon the molecular formulae of chromic , ferric , cuprous , and perhaps mercurous compounds ; and consequently upon Laurent and Gerhardt 's general law of even numbers .
Moreover a satisfactory investigation of the organocompounds of a metal certainly not belonging to any one of the recognized classes of metals with whose organo-compounds chemists have become familiar , seemed likely to furnish a useful contribution to the common knowledge of organo.metallic bodies .
Cahours , in an admirable paper on the organo-compounds of tin , published early in 1860 , observed incidentally that aluminium was attacked by the iodides of methyl and ethyl at the temperatures 100`-130 % , and that the crude ethylated product reacted violently with zinc-ethide to form a very inflammable liquid , which was doubtless aluminium ethide .
Our experiments in confirmation of Cahours 's results have been as yet merely preliminary ; but by acting on alumirniumi with mercuric methide and ethide at the temperature of 1000 , we have obtained pure aluminium methide and ethide without difficulty , and in not inconsiderable quantity .
This mode of experiment was obviously suggested by Frankland and Duppa 's recently described processes for making methide and ethide , and for transforming these compounds into zinc methide and zinc ethide respectively .
Aluminium Ethide .
Mercuric ethide with excess of aluminium-clippings contained in sealed tubes was heated for some hours in a water-bath , when the mercury was found completely displaced by the aluminium , thus , Al2 +3 Hg Et2 =Hg , + 2A1 Et .
, or A12 Et6 .
After distillation off fresh aluminium and rectification in an atmosphere of hydrogen , the resulting aluminium ethide boiled steadily at 194 ' .
It occurred as a colourless mobile liquid , which did not solidify at 6the temperature of 180 C. It evolved dense white fumes on exposure to air , and when in thin layers took fire spontaneously , burning with a bluish rededged flame , and producing an abundant smoke of alumina .
On analysis it yielded 614 per cent. of carbon , 12-9 per cent. of hydrogenl , and 24'0 per cent. of aluminium , numinbers which accord reasonably well with the formula Al Et , or Al2 Et6 , the carbon and hydrogen being slightly deficient from some unavoidable oxidation of the substance analyzed .
Its vapourdensity , taken by Gay-Lussac 's process at the temperature 234 ?
, was found to be 4 5 , the theoretical density calculated for the formula A1 Et3 being 3 9 , and that for the formula Al 2Et6 being of course 7'8 .
Hence aluminium ethide would appear to have the simple molecular formula Al Et3 ; for the difference between the experimental number 45 and the theoretical number 3 9 , is an obviously necessary consequence of the extremne oxidiza .
bility of the compound .
Water effected a complete decomposition of aluminium ethide with explosive violence .
Iodine reacted upon it , to produce iodo-derivatives and iodide of ethyl .
Oxygen in the form of dry air was simply absorbed with production of a body apparently analogous to boric di-oxyethide .
But the iodo-derivatives and oxidation products have as yet been submitted to a preliminary examination only .
Aluminium Methdde .
This compound was obtained by a process strictly analogous to that which yielded us aluminium ethide .
On heating mercuric methide with aluminium-clippings in a water-bath , the replacement of the mercury by aluminium took place with even greater facility than was manifested during the similar treatment of the ethylated body .
After a single distillation , aluminium methide occurred as a colourless mobile liquid , boiling steadily at 1300 , and solidifying a few degrees above 0 ?
into a beautiful transparent crystalline mass .
The liquid took fire spontaneously on exposure to air , burning with a very smoky flame , and producing abundant flocculi of alumina discoloured by soot .
On analysis , aluminium methide gave 48-4 per cent. of carbon , 12-3 per cent. hydrogen , and 38-2 per cent. aluminium , numbers which are quite sufficiently in accordance with the formula AlMe3 , or Al2 Men .
Three separate determinations of vapour-density , made at the temperatures of 2400 , 2200 , and 220 ' , the last with hydrogen in the tube , gave the numbers 2'80 , 2'80 , and 2'81 respectively , which agree closely with the theoretical number calculated for the formuila Al Me3 , namely 2'5 .
But the corrected density increased very rapidly with every decrease of temperature , a peculiarity of behaviour also noticed by Frankland in the case of boric methide .
Thus three separate determinations , made at 1630 , 1600 , and 1620 , the last with hydrogen in the tube , gave the densities 4 1 , 4'1 , and 39 respectively ; while the determinations made at the boilingpoint of aluminium methide , of course with hydrogen in the tube , as recommended by Playfair and Wanklyn , gave the densities 4-36 and 4 40 respectively , which approximate somewhat to the theoretical density 5.0 , calculated for the formula A12Me6 .
Hence aluminium methide appears to be a member of that class of bodies whose vapour-densities are under certain circumstances anomalous , either because the bodies exist in two molecular states of condensation , or because their vapours are not possessed of perfect elasticity until heated considerably above the boiling-points of the respective liquids .
In either case the question naturally presents itself , May not the only observed vapour-density of aluminic chloride correspond to the high vapour-density of aluminium methide , and may they not both be equally anomalous , and consequently untrustworthy as a basis for deter .
mining the general formulae of aluminic compounds ?

