1878 .
] Mr. J. Priestley on Lymph-Hearts .
III .
" Contributions to the Physiology of Batrachian Lymph-Hearts .
" By John Priestley , Assistant-Lecturer in Physiology in Owens College , Manchester .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of Owens College .
) Communicated by Professor Arthur Gamgee , F.R.S. Received January 31 , 1878 .
The following paper contains a summary of observations made in order to obtain data for a comparison between the blood-heart and lymph-hearts of frogs .
The comparison is to include the actions of electrical currents and of the so-called cardiac drugs , atropia , physo-stigma , muscaria , antiar , \amp ; c. ; but this paper will treat only of the electrical portion of the work .
Before proceeding to the collection of facts especially fitted for comparison , the normal anatomical and physiological arrangements of the lymph-hearts were examined ; and , as the result of this examination , the author is able to confirm the discoveries of previous observers in the following points :\#151 ; 1 .
The lymph-hearts of Rana temporaria are muscular sacs , whose walls consist of branched , anastomotic , transversely striated muscular fibres , abundantly nucleated ( Leydig , * Waldeyerf ) .
A cursory examination failed to discover any ganglionic nervous elements among the muscular fibres themselves , their absence having already been noticed by Volkmann J and Waldeyer ; S but nerve-ganglia are said to be found near the hearts , in their connective tissue environment ( WA , ldeyer).|| 2 .
The lymph-hearts beat with a mean rate of 60-70 a minute , and are independent in their rhythm of one another , of the blood-heart , and of the respiratory movements ( J. Muller ) .
But the normal pulsation is not quite regular , being occasionally broken by sudden pauses or by periods of increased rapidity of beat .
These interruptions seem to be partly due to movements of the animal , but in part to hitherto undefined causes .
3 .
The hearts receive nerve-fibres from the spinal cord , which descend in the second and tenth spinal nerves respectively for the anterior and posterior pairs of hearts ( Volkmann , ** Eckhard , tt SchifE ++ ) .
* Leydig , Lehrbuch der Histologie , 1857 .
f Waldeyer , Henle u. Pfeufer 's Zeitsch .
fur rat .
Med. , 3rd Series , rol .
xxi , 1864 .
J Volkmann , Muller 's Archiv , 1844 , p. 419 .
S Waldeyer , loc. cit. || Waldeyer , loo .
cit. TT J- Muller , Philosophical Transactions of Roy .
Soc. London , 1833 .
Poggen-dorfE 's Annalen , 1832 .
Muller 's Archiy , 1834 .
** Volkmann , loc. cit. tf Eckhard , Henle u. Pfeufer 's Zeitseh .
, 1849 , yoI .
viii .
J J SchifE , Henle u. Pfeufer 's Zeitsch .
, 1850 , yoI .
ix.138 Mr. J. Priestley on Batrachia Lymph-Hearts .
[ Feb. 28 4 .
The normal rhythm of the heart is dependent on the soundness of certain regions of the spinal cord , viz. , for the anterior pair , of the region opposite the 3rd vertebral body ( Volkmann* ) , for the posterior pair , of the region opposite the 6th .
This statement is a correction of the view commonly held in respect of the spinal region concerned in the rhythm of the posterior hearts ; for all previous observers seem to have followed Volkmann in saying that the region of the 8th vertebral body is that implicated .
If these regions are injured , or if the nerves proceeding from them to the hearts are intercepted , either the hearts are brought to rest permanently , or their natural pulsation is disorganised and reduced for a long time to more or less irregular fluttering .
These spinal centres seem capable , of inhibition by strong sensory ( afferent ) stimuli , even in the absence of the encephalon .
5 .
The natural pulsation of the lymph-hearts is constantly controlled from an encephalic inhibitory centre in the optic lobes , separation from which is , therefore , at once followed by increased rate of beat ) ( Suslowa.)f This inhibitory centre is said by Goltz \#163 ; to be roused into stronger action by powerful mechanical stimuli proceeding along !
the vagi from the heart , or proceeding from the abdominal viscera in the Klopfversuch .
6 .
The disorderly contractions that follow division of the lymph- : cardiac spinal nerves may give place to a regular pulsation : ( Eckhard , S Sehiff , || Heidenhain ^[ ) .
The restoration does not usually : take place until after many days , but when established , the rhythmical ] beating is independent of the spinal cord , not ceasing , like the pulse \ of normal lymph-hearts , when the central nervous system is destroyed ( Goltz , ** Waldeyerff ) .
The cause of these movements is not yeti fully understood ; but the movements themselves are abolished byl local or general application of curare.in solution .
Action op Electrical Currents on the Lymph-Hearts of Frogs .
J A complete description of the action of electrical currents on the j lymph-cardiac mechanism includes the action of induced currents and j of constant currents .
The latter were generated by Grove 's or Daniell 's !
elements , the former by a Du Bois ' induction coil .
The portions of the 1 lymph-cardiac apparatus tested were brought into the circuit by appli- 1 * Volkmann , loc. cit. t Suslowa , Centralblatt f. med .
Wis. 1867 , p. 832 .
Henle u. Pfeufer 's Zeitsch .
, : 1868 .
t Goltz , Centralblatt f. med .
Wis. 1863 , p. 17 ; p. 497 .
Ibidem , 1864 , p. 691 .
S Eckhard , loc. cit. || Schiff , loc. cit. IT Heidenhain , Disquisitiones de nervis cordis , etc. Berlin .
1854 .
( Dissertation .
) ** Goltz , loc. cit. +f Waldeyer , loc. cit. ) [ 878 .
] Mr. J. Priestley on Batrachi Lymph-Hearts .
139 ) ation either of common non-polarizable eleotrodes or of electrodes of \gt ; latinum wire .
X.\#151 ; Action of Induced Interrupted Currents .
I a. On the lymph-cardiac muscle detached from its nerve ( as an ordinary Voluntary muscle maybe detached ) by means of curare.\#151 ; The electrodes ivere laid on the back after the removal of the skin , as close to the posterior lymph-hearts as possible .
Under these circumstances the lymph-hearts behave exactly like the surrounding striated muscles , not Eliffering from them to any remarkable extent , either in minimal stimulus or in mode of contraction .
I On the lymph-cardiac spinal nerves after anatomical separation from rjhe lymph-cardiac spinal centre.\#151 ; The spine and cord were snipped ( through at the level of the 7th vertebra , and one non-polarisable electrode was applied to the exposed lower end of the cord ; while the back of the 8th vertebral arch was removed , and the other electrode , swell moistened with normal saline solution , was introduced at the iwindow so made .
Or a pair of platinum electrodes were slipped beneath the abdominal branch of the tenth spinal nerve running to one jof the posterior hearts , the heart having previously been brought to rest by division of the same branch near the coccygeal foramen .
Under fthese circumstances the lymph-cardiac muscle-nerve preparation behaves like any ordinary muscle-nerve preparation , except that it pos-ssesses a much larger minimal stimulus .
If contact between nerves and electrodes were not very perfect in the 5spinal canal , or if currents near the minimal stimulating point were i employed , the usual firm tetanus of the lymph-hearts became broken unto a series of explosive , beat-like , or twitching movements .
But , nunder similar conditions , ordinary muscle-nerve preparations re-act in \gt ; a similar manner .
\ c. On the lymph-cardiac spinal centre separated from the encephalic xinhibitory centre.\#151 ; The frog was decapitated , and all the spinal nerves * were divided except the tenth .
Windows were cut into the back of f the spinal canal , opposite the 5th and 8th vertebrae , and into the \#166 ; windows well-moistened non-polarizable electrodes were pushed .
Or I the spinal canal w as opened from the 5th to the 8th vertebrae , and t platinum electrodes slipped beneath the cord or made to touch I the cord lightly one at each side at the level of the 6th vertebra .
I Under these circumstances slight currents , strong enough to con-I tract at the same time the ilio-coccygeal muscles , slowed the I lymph-hearts ; stronger currents inhibited the hearts in diastole , and I still stronger currents caused a tetanic systole of the hearts like the I simultaneous tetanus induced in neighbouring nerve-supplied muscles .
I The strong currents sufficient to cause in this manner prolonged I diastolic inhibition of lymph-hearts still dependent on their spinal 140 Mr. J. Priestley on Batrachian Lymph-Hearts .
[ Feb. 28 , centres , are also of a strength to canse powerful tetanus of the same lymph-hearts when applied to their nerves in the spinal canal , as described under h. It should be noticed that the same explosive , pulse-like movements occurred here as under b , when the conditions were similar .
This action of the interrupted induced current on the lymph-cardiac spinal centres is not abolished by the local or systemic exhibition of solutions of atropia .
II .
Action of Constant Currents .
The currents were applied to the structures tested by means of non-polarizable electrodes of ordinary form .
a. On the .
lymph-hearts brought to rest by separation from their spinal centres.\#151 ; After operations involving extensive bleeding , separation from their spinal centres is , in nearly all cases , followed by permanent stand-still of the dependent hearts .
In the experiments described the frogs were decapitated and eviscerated , all the spinal nerves except the tenth were divided , and the thighs amputated in order to obviate any disturbing muscular movements .
The electrodes were applied to the base of the back near the heart to be examined , sometimes in a direction laterally across the heart , and sometimes in the longitudinal axis of the heart ; or the heart was carefully excised with its surrounding connective tissue , placed upon the clay of one electrode , and lightly touched with the point of the other .
In the latter way of experimenting no attention was paid to the relation of the current to the axes of the heart , on account of the small size of the organ in B. temporaria .
Under these circumstances with various strengths of battery from 2-3 small DanielFs cells to 16-18 Grove 's , nothing but ordinary opening and closing contractions could be caused .
b. On the lymph-hearts still beating in normal dependence on their spinal centres.\#151 ; The electrodes were placed either on the lateral or the longitudinal axes of the hearts , as in a. Under these circumstances , in whatever direction the current flows , the pulsation of the hearts is hampered or inhibited , the hampering affecting rather the depth than the frequency of the beats .
c. On the lymph-cardiac spinal centres.\#151 ; The well-softened electrodes were pushed in at windows opening into the spinal canal through the 5th and 7th or 8th vertebral arches , after the frog had been decapitated and the spinal nerves , except the tenth , all divided ; or one electrode was placed on the upper end of the cord exposed in decapitation , while ; the other was placed in the window through the lower vertebral arch , i a. On the acting spinal centre.\#151 ; Different results were obtained accord- ; ing to the direction and strength of the current , varying from complete j stand-still in diastole to pulsation much more rapid than normal ; but all seem capable of explanation by the aid of the Hown laws of 5 Presents .
1878 .
] electrotonus , the known effect on the neutral line of varying battery power , and the assumption of a stimulating influence of the current per se , which may counteract the depressing effects of the anelectrotonic state .
p. On the spinal centre exhausted by the effects of operative procedure , exposure , etc. Restoration to activity follows the passage up or down the cord of a current for 1-2 Grove 's cells .
Such restoration the author does not think it possible to attribute in every case to the presence of favouring katelectrotonus ; it must be set down to a stimulation by the current per se .
ry .
On the spinal centres of hearts inhibited by stimulating with strong NaCl solutions the upper exposed end of the cord of a decapitated frog .
The electrodes were inserted into the spinal canal through windows in the 5th and 7th or 8th vertebral arches .
Under these circumstances the hearts cannot be set going by passing a current through the spinal centres , unless , perhaps , when the current is very strong ( from 5-6 Grove 's ) ; and then only when the anode is above the spinal centres , and , therefore , in a position to intercept the descending inhibitory stimulus by means of the anelectrotonic state which it induces .
IV .
" On the Structure of the Stylasteridse , a Family of the Hydroid Stony Corals .
" By H. N. Moseley , F.R.S. , Fellow of Exeter College , Oxford , late Naturalist on board H.M.S. ' Challenger .
' Received January 22 , 1878 .
[ For " Preliminary Note , " see Proceedings , vol. xxv .
p. 93 .
] Presents , January 10 , 1878 .
Transactions .
Basel:\#151 ; Schweizerische Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Verhand-lungen .
59 Jahresversammlung .
8vo .
1877 .
The Society .
Berlin :\#151 ; Konigliche Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Abhandlungen aus dem Jahre 1876 .
4to .
1877 .
The Academy .
Bern:\#151 ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen aus dem Jahre 1876 .
Nr .
906-922 .
8vo .
1877 .
The Society .
Berwickshire Naturalists ' Club .
Proceedings .
Vol. VIII .
No. 1 .
8vo .
1877 .
The Club .
Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society .
Journal .
Vol. XII .
No. 34 .
8vo .
1877 .
The Society .
Boston [ U.S. ] :\#151 ; American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
Proceedings .
Vol. XIII .
Part I. 8vo .
1877 .
The Academy .

