The following papers were read , viz. : 1 .
" Remarks on the Meteorological Observations made at Alten , Finmarken , by Mr. S. H. Thomas in the years 1837 , 1838 , and 1839 .
" By Major Sabine , R.A. , V.P.R.S. , and Lieut. Col. Sykes , F.R.S. ; being a Report from the Committee of Physics , including Meteorology , to the Council , and communicated by the Council to the Royal Society .
These observations , made at Alten in lat. 69ยง 58 ' 3 " N. , and 23ยง 43 ' 10 " east of Paris , would seem to have a claim to the atten ?
tion of the Royal Society , as they offer the experimentum crucis of Professor Forbes 's empirical formula respecting the gradual diminu ?
tion of the daily oscillations of the barometer , within certain limit hours , from the equator to the poles .
Professor Forbes has laid down an assumed curve , in which the diurnal oscillation amounts to 1190 at the equator and 0 in lat. 64ยง 8 ' N. , and beyond that lati ?
tude the tide should occur with a contrary sign , plus becoming minus .
Now Alten being nearly in lat. 70 ?
, if Professor Forbes 's law hold good , the maxima of the diurnal oscillations should occur at the hour for the minima at the equator , and a similar inversion should take place with respect to the minima .
Mr. Thomas has himself however modified the value his observations would otherwise have had , by adopting 2 p.m. , instead of 3 p.m. , for the hour of his observations for the fall ; and he has adapted his barometrical observations to a mean temperature of 50 ?
Fahr. , instead of 32 ? .
The first year 's observations commence on the 1st October , 1837 , and terminate on the 30th September , 1838 .
The barometer stood 66 feet 5 inches above low-water mark , and the thermometer hung at 6 feet above the ground ; but care was not always taken to pre ?
vent the sun shining on it .
The mean height of the barometer for the year was 29 ?
*771 , and the mean of the thermometer al ?
most coincident with the freezing point , viz. , 32o,017 .
The maximum height of the barometer was 30 ?
*89 in January , and the minimum 28 ?
-71 in October .
The mean of the barometer at 9 a.m. was 29 ?
*764 , therm. 33 ?
*455 ; at 2 p.m. 29 ?
*765 , therm. 33 ?
'327 ; and at 9 p.m. 29 ?
*784 , therm. 29 ?
*270 .
The diurnal observations would seem to support Professor Forbes 's theory ; but the 9 p.m. observations are entirely opposed to it , as they appear with the same maximum sign as at the equator , whereas the sign ought to have been the reverse ; indeed , with respect to the diurnal observations , the mean of five months of the year at 9 a.m. gives a plus sign , although the mean of the year at 2p.m .
only gives the trifling quantity of '001 plus .
There is one remarkable feature in these observations that cannot fail to strike the meteorologist .
M. Arago , from nine years ' observations at Paris , reduced to the level of the sea , makes the annual mean height 29 ?
*9546 ; twenty-one years ' observations at Madras make it 29 ?
*958 ; and three years ' observations at Calcutta , by Mr. James Prinsep , make it 29 ?
*764 ; and Mr. Thomas brings out 29 ?
*771 .
That there should be this coincidence between the observations at Calcutta and Alten is curious .
Neither Mr. Thomas nor Mr. Prinsep state whether or not their means are reduced to the level of the sea .
It is to be suspected they are not .
For the next year , that is to say , from Oct. 1838 to Sept. 1839 , both inclusive , Mr. Thomas uses a French barometer and French measurements , with centigrade thermometer attached to the barometer , and Fahrenheit 's for the detached thermometer .
He changes his time of observation from 9 a.m. to 8 a.m. , 2 p.m. , and 8 p.m. , and he reduces his barometrical observations to 0 centigrade .
The results of the year are as follow : ?
mean annual pressure 29 ?
*627 English ; thermometer Fahr. 33 ?
-36 ; greatest pressure in April , least in January ! !
The mean of 8 a.m. is 29ยง 620 ; therm. 33 ?
*75 .
The mean of 2 p.m. is 29 ?
'631 ; therm. 34 ?
*73 .
And at 8 p.m. 29 ?
*631 ; therm. 30 ?
*57 .
The diurnal observations assist to support Professor Forbes 's theory ; but as in the preceding year , the p.m. observation is at fault ; and if the hour had been 9 o'clock instead of 8 o'clock , it would probably have been more so than it appears .
The low annual mean state of the barometer for the year 1837-38 is even increased in the last year 's observations ; and as fresh instruments* appear to have been used , there is ground to believe that the fact is associated with the locality , and it may be desirable not only to record in the Proceed ?
ings of the Royal Society the data already supplied , but to recommend to Mr. Thomas more particular inquiry on the subject .
The phacnomena of the Aurora Borealis appear to have been observed by Mr. Thomas with great assiduity , and recorded with great care .
On examining the register , with reference to M. Erman 's important remark , that " in Siberia two kinds of aurora are distinguished , one having its centre in the west , and the other in the east , the latter being the more brilliant/ ' it is found that twenty-two nights occur in the course of the two winters in which the formation of arches of the aurora is noticed and their direction recorded ; of these , ten are to the ivest , having their centres rather to the southward of west , the arches extending from N.W. to S.S.E. and S.E. ; seven are to the east , or more precisely to the southward of east , the arches extending from N.E. to S.E. and S.W. Of the five others , four are said to be from east to west across the zenith , and cannot therefore be classed with either of the preceding , and one is noticed generally as being to the north .
The facts here recorded appear to afford an evidence of the same nature as those mentioned by M. Erman , as far as regards there being two centres of the phenomenon .
In respect to the relative brilliancy of the east ?
ern and western aurora , nothing very decided can be inferred from the register .
If , as M. Erman supposes , that they may be referred respectively to " les deux foyers magnetiques de l'hemisphere boreal , " it is proper to notice that the position of Alten is nearly midway between those localities .
There can be no doubt that the frequent appearance of the aurora , and the peculiarities of the phenomenon observed there , ren ?
der it a most desirable quarter for a magnetical and meteorological observatory .
Edward Sabine .
W. H. Sykes .

