460 Some Investigations on the Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
Part I.\#151 ; On the Clotting of Milk .
By S. B. Schryver .
( Communicated by Prof. E. H. Starling , F.R.S. Received March 6 , \#151 ; Read April 10 , 1913 .
) ( From the Research Institute of the Cancer Hospital .
) Introduction .
During the course of some researches on the bile acids , the observation was made that sodium cholate in 1-per-cent , solution reacts with calcium salts in a characteristic manner .
On first addition of the salt solution , the mixture remains clear ; on gentle warming , however , it solidifies to form an irreversible gel , the rate of formation of which , other factors being the same , , is dependent on the temperature .
A series of experiments was carried out to ascertain what influence the concentrations of the various calcium salts exerted on the time required for " clot " formation .
These experiments were carried out at a temperature of 50 ' C. It was found as a result , that the calcium salts , as regards their behaviour to sodium cholate , could be divided into two classes .
In the first class are included those salts in the presence of which the clotting time diminishes as the concentration of their solutions is progressively increased .
In the second class of salts , the clotting time also diminishes as the concentration is increased , but only up to a certain optimal point ; further concentration beyond this point increases the time of clot formation , or even inhibits it entirely .
The salts of the first class can be distinguished from those of the second , in that the former increase the surface tension of water ( measured against air ) , whereas the latter cause a diminution of this constant .
The greater the diminution of the surface tension caused by salts of the second class , the smaller the range of concentration of the salt solution within which complete clot formation is possible .
The actual chemical nature of the clot has not yet been ascertained .
It is possibly either calcium cholate or the free acid ( formed by hydrolysis of the calcium salt ) ; in either case it is obviously a heavily hydrated aggregate , the formation of which is inhibited by the presence of readily adsorbed substances ; the more easily such substances lower the surface tension of water , the more readily are they adsorbed from aqueous solution , and the Investigations on the Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
4GI greater their inhibitory action on the formation of aggregates by the larger molecules contained in the system.* It is proposed to deal with the subject of the cholate clot in a subsequent publication , but a preliminary account of certain experiments is given in this place , as the results obtained have given rise to suggestions as to the mechanism of a phenomenon of far greater general interest , viz. , the clotting of milk by rennet .
From the fact that an aggregation , commonly known as a " clot , " can be inhibited by the presence of simple adsorbable substances in a system , the conception arose that in milk the substances necessary for the formation of the clot already pre-exist , but owing to their adsorption of simpler molecules from the system , they do not aggregate , but remain in a state of dispersion .
It was thought that a ferment , for which the disperse phase acts as a substrate , could clear the surface of the colloidal particles of adsorbed substances , and thus allow their aggregation to take place ; in other words , the ferment could act the part of a scavenger .
If the view here advanced is correct , it should be possible to produce clot formation from a milk protein by the action of calcium salt alone , in the absence of rennet .
Indications of such a possibility are afforded by the experiments published more than 20 years ago by Einger.f A more or less similar conception underlies the experiments recently published by Hedin and his pupils .
The former has shown that ferments , such as rennet , are adsorbed by charcoal , and in this adsorbed state do not exert their full activity ; if to such a combination another readily adsorbable substance , such as saponin , is added , the ferment can be freed from its combination with the charcoal and its activity can be partly or wholly restored .
; " Whatever chemical process is involved in the actual clot formation in milk , it is a fact , which is illustrated by various experiments in this paper , that when aggregation is prevented by adsorbable substances , the inhibitory action of the latter appears to be antagonised by the addition of an appropriate enzyme .
% * For other examples of salt action , see Schryver , " Investigations dealing with the State of Aggregation of Matter , Parts I-III , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , B , vol. 83y pp. 96-123 . .
t ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1890 , vol. 2 , p. 464 .
t Hedin , ' Zeitsch .
physiol .
Chem. , ' 1912 , vol. 82 , p. 175 ; and Jahnson-Blohm , ibid. , p. 178 .
Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. 6 , The Lability of Caseinogen .
The first experiments on milk clotting were directed towards a preparation .of a standard caseinogen solution , upon which the action of alkalis could be quantitatively studied .
For the preliminary investigations , two different samples were employed , viz. , a commercial preparation made by the * " Ehenania " factory of Aix-la-Chapelle , and a preparation made in the laboratory by a slight modification of Hammarsten 's process .
The Solubility of Caseinogen in Alkalis .
It has been long known that caseinogen can dissolve in alkalis to give rise to highly acid solutions of what are presumably acid salts .
The degree of solubility in alkaline solutions was employed throughout these researches to .characterise the various preparations .
In the determination of this factor , no pretence can be made to the accuracy which can be attained in the estimation of the solubility of crystalline substances , owing to various inherent experimental difficulties .
The alkaline solution most generally employed was that of saturated calcium hydroxide , .diluted with its own volume of freshly boiled water ( | sat. Ca(OH)2 ) .
An excess of the caseinogen preparation ( usually 1*5-2 grm. ) was mixed with 20-25 c.c. of the lime water solution in a bottle , which was then placed over night ( usually about 17 hours ) on a rotating axis in a thermostat kept at 21*5 ' C. At the end of this period a saturated solution of caseinogen in lime water containing the excess of undissolved caseinogen was obtained .
This mixture could not be directly filtered in the thermostat , as the pores of the filter soon become clogged .
In order to get a filtrate , the mixture had to be submitted to prolonged centrifugalisation .
An attempt was made to work in every case under as nearly as possible the same conditions .
The mixture was consequently always centrifuged for two hours at a speed of 3500 revolutions per minute .
After this treatment , the supernatant fluid could be readily filtered through small folded filters .
The defects of this method are obvious .
It is impossible to work under absolutely constant conditions , and the liquid becomes slightly warm as the result of the centrifugalisation .
As there is evidence that the calcium salt of caseinogen undergoes hydrolysis readily when solutions diluter than half-saturated lime water are employed as a solvent , it can be readily understood that errors can arise from the want of .constancy of temperature throughout the whole experiment due to the impossibility , with the laboratory appliances available , of carrying out all investigations at exactly the same temperature .
Furthermore , the alkaline solutions employed are very dilute , and a relatively small error in standardising 1913 .
] Phenomena ofu Clot " Formations .
such solutions can cause a relatively large error in the solubility determination .
Better results would also probably have been obtained had it been feasible to avoid the use of glass vessels .
In spite , however , of all these known inaccuracies , the deviations from the absolutely correct figures are so small compared with the changes produced by submitting caseinogen to various treatments , that the lack of rigidity in the experiments does not materially affect the conclusions drawn from the results ; it accounts for the small irregularities to be noticed in the various tables of results .
The nitrogen was estimated in 5 c.c. of the filtrate by KjeldahTs method .
The number of cubic centimetres of N/ 10 acid required to neutralise the ammonia produced will , throughout this paper , for the sake of brevity , be designated simply the solubility of the preparation .
Differences in the Solubility in Alkalis of Various Preparations .
The earliest experiments indicated that great differences existed between the various preparations employed .
A sample of a Rhenania caseinogen showed a solubility in | sat. Ca(0H)2 of 5T , whereas the solubility of the preparation prepared by the modification of Hammarsten 's method mentioned above was 21*2 .
Sodium hydroxide solutions dissolve approximately the same amount of substance as the equimolar ( and not equinormal ) calcium hydroxide solutions .
In this respect caseinogen behaves like other proteins , such as edestin and globulin .
Attempts were then made to account for the differences in the behaviour of the various preparations .
A series of products was made from milk , by the method already described , but instead of purifying the precipitated caseinogen by dissolving it in sodium hydroxide , it was treated with other alkalis ( normal solutions ) , from the solutions in which it was precipitated by acetic acid ; the procedure was exactly the same as when sodium hydroxide was employed .
Ho marked difference was found in the solubility of the various preparations thus obtained .
Nevertheless , the numbers found are of quite a different order to the solubility of the Rhenania preparation ( 5*1 ) .
The effect of the treatment of the Rhenania caseinogen by alkali was next investigated .
This was dissolved in normal alkali , reprecipitated , and treated by the general routine process ( alcohol , ether , etc. ) .
The preparation thus obtained was now much more soluble in ^ sat. Ca(OH)2 , viz. , 21*1 , i.e. it was of the same order as that of the preparations made in the laboratory .
Attempts were next made to ascertain the reason of the great differences 4(34 Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. G , in the behaviour of the various samples .
The action of water at higher temperatures was first investigated .
A sample of caseinogen , freshly precipitated , was treated with alcohol and ether , and then air dried .
( Solubility , 21*5 .
) It was then warmed with water for half an hour at 70 ' , which caused it to form at first a pasty mass , which became more granular as the heating was continued .
It was then treated with alcohol and ether and air-dried .
The solubility in \ sat. Ca(OH)2 was now 10*9 , or only a little more than half that of the original preparation .
On redissolving the heated product in sodium hydroxide and reprecipitating , a preparation was obtained with the solubility 25*3 .
Another sample of the heated product was " purified " by solution in ammonia , and the preparation thus produced had a solubility of 22*3 .
A third sample was " purified " by dissolving in calcium hydroxide .
The caseinogen was only very partially precipitated by acetic acid from this solution , and the filtration of the precipitate through paper could only be effected with difficulty .
The solubility of this preparation was 12*6 .
It is therefore obvious from these experiments that caseinogen , on treatment with hot water , is converted into a product which is considerably less soluble than the original substance in lime water , but which , on " purification " by solution in caustic alkalis and reprecipitation by acids , is reconverted into the substance from which it was formed .
The solubility of heated and unheated preparations in .
various strengths of alkaline solutions was next determined , and a comparison of the solution capacities of calcium and sodium hydroxide was made .
Saturated Ca(OH)2 solution requires for neutralisation 4*3 c.c. N/ 10 acid .
4*3 .
An equimolar Na(OH ) solution requires for neutralisation c.c. N/ 10 acid .
In the following table the figures indicate the number of cubic centimetres of N/ 10 acid necessary to neutralise the ammonia produced by the Kjeldahlisation of 5 c.c. of the solution .
( For method of determining the solubilities and sources of error , see pp. 462-3 .
) Original preparation .
Heated preparation .
Solubility in Ca(OH)2 solutions .
Solubility in NaOH solutions equimolar with Solubility in Ca(OH)2 solutions .
Solubility in NaOH solutions equimolar with Saturated , 46 *5 \#163 ; saturated , 22 '8 \#163 ; saturated , 6 '6 J Saturated Ca(OH)2 , 41 *4 ^ saturated Ca(OH)2 , 20 *3 i saturated Ca(OH)2 , 10 *0 Saturated , 23 *9 J saturated , 11 *9 \ saturated , 4 *3 Saturated Ca(OH)2 , 36 *6 \#163 ; saturated Ca(OH)\#171 ; , 16 '4 \ saturated Ca(OH)2 , 7 '6 1913 .
] Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
It is necessary to call attention to two facts which are indicated in the above table , viz.:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Whereas saturated lime water dissolves only a very little more than twice as much of the preparations dissolved by the half-saturated solution , the latter dissolves very appreciably more than twice the amount dissolved by lime water of quarter saturation .
A similar result has been obtained several times , and it indicates that when the strength of solution is below that equivalent to half saturation , hydrolytic dissociation of the calcium salt takes place .
A similar phenomenon is not noticed in the case of the sodium salt .
( 2 ) The solution capacity of sodium hydroxide for the heated preparation is considerably larger than that of the equimolar solution , more especially in the highest concentration .
This is in accordance with the fact that caustic alkalis reconvert the product obtained by heat change into its original form .
In order to produce the changes in caseinogen discussed above water is necessary .
A preparation of caseinogen shows no change in its solubility in calcium hydroxide after boiling for half an hour with alcohol .
A Systematic Examination of the Action of Water on Caseinogen .
For the purpose of a more detailed investigation on the action of water , samples of caseinogen , each of 5 grm. weight , which had been " purified " twice by solution in sodium hydroxide and reprecipitation with acid ( but without any special precautions as to temperature or time of contact with reagents ) were warmed at different temperatures ( in thermostat ) and for different periods with 10 times the weight of water .
At the end of the treatment the water was poured off , and the samples were then treated with alcohol and ether , and air-dried .
On treatment with alcohol those which had been submitted to higher temperatures , and which on first heating became pasty , were converted into a hard granular mass , and were finely ground with alcohol in a mortar .
In the following table the solubilities in 4 sat. Ca(OH)2 of the different preparations are given:\#151 ; Solubility of Original Preparation , 22 .
Temperatures 37 ' .
50 ' .
75 ' .
100 ' .
Time of heating\#151 ; h hour 18 *8 16 *3 14 *4 13 -0 i 17 *5 15 *7 11 -o 10 *8 2 hours 15*8 13 *3 10 *9 \#151 ; 5 j , 13*7 12 *5 10 -7 7*4 10 " 11*4 11 *5 10 *8 6*9 26i 11*6 10 T 6-8 4*2 Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. 6 , From the above table it will be observed that caseinogen is changed by simply heating with water at incubator temperature .
The change proceeds until a solubility denoted by the number 11 is attained .
When this point is attained further change appears to be very slow .
At higher temperatures , however , further changes are produced , and the caseinogen is , converted into a product which is no longer soluble in excess of sodium hydroxide .
The products obtained by the action of water at higher temperatures have not been further investigated .
In view of the fact that excess of casinogen preparation was always used in the solubility estimations , and that consequently the saturated solutions of caseinogenate were kept for some time in agitation with this excess , experiments were carried out to ascertain how far adsorption phenomena influenced the final equilibrium .
For this purpose , 20 c.c. of saturated solutions of the original preparation and a preparation which had been heated for three-quarters of an hour with water at 75 ' , in \ sat. Ca(OH)2 , were rotated with l-l2 grm. of the various heated products for 17 hours .
The mixtures were then centrifuged and the nitrogen was estimated in 5 c.c. of the filtered supernatant fluid .
It was found that a small amount of the caseinogenate was thus removed from solution .
Thus in the case of the unheated caseinogenate 5 c.c. required , after Kjeldahlisation , about 20 c.c. N/ 10 acid to neutralise the ammonia produced .
Of the same preparation , after rotating with various samples of heated products , 5 c.c. required 17*4-18*2 c.c. In the case of the heated product , 5 c.c. of the caseinogenate were equivalent to 10*0 c.c. of acid , and after rotation with the heated products , to 8-9 c.c. of acid .
There was no marked difference in the adsorption capacities of the different heated products .
Adsorption phenomena have therefore but little influence on the comparative values of the numbers given in the above table .
The Preparation of " Natural " Caseinogen .
As the above series of experiments have demonstrated the great lability of easeinogen , which , under the influence of water , is readily converted into one or more " metacaseinogens , " experiments were next directed to ascertain whether the natural caseinogen undergoes change during the course of its preparation by Hammarsten 's method ( or modifications of the same ) .
Efforts were directed towards obtaining a product which should remain for as short a time as possible in contact with the various reagents employed .
To accomplish this end a caseinogen was prepared in the following manner:\#151 ; Four litres of skimmed milk were diluted with 16 litres of water , and to this mixture 20 c.c. of glacial acetic acid dissolved in 400 c.c. of water were added with brisk agitation .
After not more than two or three 1913 .
] Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
minutes , when the caseinogen had settled at the bottom of the precipitating vessels , the supernatant liquid was syphoned off ' , this process being accomplished in as short a time as possible .
The precipitate was then washed twice by decantation with several times its volume of ice-cold water .
It was then treated with graded strengths of alcohol , up to absolute alcohol , then with ether , and finally air-dried .
A very fine light power was thus obtained , which was considerably more soluble in J sat. Ca(OH)2 than any of the preparations obtained by the ordinary Hammarsten method , when the precautions described above were not observed .
Whereas the solubility of the Hammarsten preparations in lime water varied as a rule ( and the reason of these variations is now obvious ) between 20 and 26 , that of the new preparation was about 35 .
The solubilities of a large number of preparations obtained by the new method were determined ; the majority of them showed a solubility in sat. Ca(OH)2 which varied but slightly from that given .
Furthermore , the solutions thus obtained both in \ sat. Ca(OH)2 and the equimolar sodium hydroxide solution , especially that in lime water , had an opaque milky appearance which retained the opacity even after dilution with several volumes of water , which is in marked contrast to the opalescent solutions obtained with the ordinary commercial preparations .
The Lability of the " Natural " Caseinogen .
The factors influencing the changes in the " natural " caseinogen were next investigated .
Effect of Acids .
Ten-gramme samples of the " natural " caseinogen were allowed to stand with 100 c.c. of a OT-per-cent .
acetic acid solution , which is about the strength of the acid in which the original precipitate is produced .
The samples were allowed to stand for varying times with the acid , then filtered , washed with water , and repeatedly with alcohol , to remove the last traces of acid .
They were finally washed with ether and air-dried .
The following numbers indicate the solubilities in J sat. Ca(OH)2 after varying periods of contact with 1/ 1000 acetic acid :\#151 ; Original preparation ... ... ... ... .
35*0 After 1 hour with acid ... ... ... . .
27*3 " 2 hours " 19*3 " 6 " " 15*5 , ,24 " " 11*4 468 Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. 6 , The " natural " caseinogen is therefore very unstable in the presence of acids .
This change in the caseinogen is not due to a ferment carried down with it when it is precipitated from milk , as a product of high solubility in alkali is also obtained when the milk is boiled before the precipitation of the caseinogen .
Some preliminary experiments , which need not be given in detail here , indicate that substances present in the milk serum protect the caseinogen from change , when treated with water .
Action of Water on " Natural " Caseinogen .
The action of water on " natural55 caseinogen at various temperatures was also investigated in some detail .
The method of experiment was exactly the same as that employed in the researches on the action of water on caseinogen prepared by Hammarsten 's method ( see p. 465 ) .
The result of the determinations of the solubility in | sat. Ca(OH)2 of the various products are indicated in the following table :\#151 ; Solubility of Original Preparation , 35 .
Temperatures 37 ' .
75 ' .
100 ' .
Time of heating\#151 ; i hour 16 *8 17 *6 14 -5 1 " 17 *2 18 *5 13 *4 2 hours 14 T 13 *8 11 -2 5 " 14*7 11 -7 9*0 10 " 13 -4 11 -8 6-0 m " 11 -5 10 *8 4-9 The changes at 51 ' did not differ materially from those at 37 ' .
It will be observed that up to 75 ' the temperature has but little effect on the rate of change .
Within the first half-hour , however , the caseinogen , even at 37 ' , breaks down into a product with only about half the solubility of the original preparation in J sat. Ca(OH)2. .
At ordinary room temperature the change is very slow , a preparation left in contact with water for 24 hours having its solubility reduced only to about ,30 .
It is not at present possible to formulate the chemical changes which have been described above .
It seems , however , feasible to assume that they are produced by the scission or addition of the elements of water .
It is advisable to recall the fact that water is necessary to produce these changes , and the caseinogen itself remains unaltered on boiling with alcohol .
If the above conception is correct the presumably more complex and more soluble caseinogen is a poly-acid which first undergoes hydrolysis into a simpler 1913 .
] Phenomena ofu Clot " Formations .
469 acid , from which , on heating , the elements of water are removed from contiguous hydroxyl groups .
On treatment with caustic alkalis , and acidification of the alkaline solution , these elements are added again to the molecule , which is thereby enabled to again form the poly-acid .
The relationship , if this view is correct , is similar to that existing between a pyrophosphate and a metaphosphate , a conception which is not improbable when it is remembered that caseinogen is a derivative of phosphoric acid .
Physically there is a marked difference between the saturated solutions ( i.e. as regards caseinogen ) of the calcium salts ( containing the same amount of calcium ) of caseinogen and metacaseinogen .
The former are white opaque solutions which retain their opacity even after considerable dilution , whereas the latter ( produced by the prolonged action of water at 37 ' on natural caseinogen ) are translucent , although opalescent .
It may be recalled here that these two forms are readily convertible , one into the other .
As might be expected , the nitrogen-phosphorus ratios remain constant .
The analyses of the various products are not quoted in this paper .
They are also neutralised by the same amount of sodium hydroxide .
The Action of Calcium Salts on Solutions of " Natural " Caseinogenates .
Throughout all the following experiments a saturated solution of " natural " 'Caseinogen in | sat. Ca(OH)2 ( 10 c.c. = 2*15 c.c. IST/ 10 acid ) and equimolar carbonate-free sodium hydroxide ( 20 c.c. = 2*15 c.c. 1ST/ 10 acid ) have been employed .
The solutions were always prepared by gentle rotation for 17 hours in a thermostat of 4 grm. of caseinogen with 40 c.c. of the alkaline solution .
The mixture was afterwards centrifuged for two hours at a speed \#166 ; of 3500 revolutions per minute , and the supernatant fluid decanted off .
Action of Calcium Chloride Solutions on Sodium Caseinogenate Solutions.\#151 ; When the caseinogenate solutions are treated with calcium chloride , a precipitate is formed , but only within certain limits of the concentration of the calcium salt .
The reactions form therefore an " irregular series , " a phenomenon which is not uncommon when a reacting substance is a complex colloid.* In the following experiment 10 c.c. of the sodium caseinogenate solution were diluted with 10 c.c. of calcium chloride solutions of varying strengths .
After standing , the mixtures were filtered through folded filter-papers , and the nitrogen was estimated in 10 c.c. of the filtrate .
The results are given in the following table:\#151 ; * These reactions are discussed in some detail in a footnote to a former paper ( ' Boy .
.Soc .
Proc. , ' 1910 , B , vol. 83 , pp. 97 and 98 ) .
Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. 6 , N in filtrate .
Percentage j precipitated .
10 c.c. caseinogenafce solution\#151 ; + 10 c.c. water 28 *0 0 + 10 c.c. N/ 50 CaCl9 27 *4 2-2 +10 c.c. N/ 25 " 1 *2 95 *7 +10 c.c. N/ 20 , , 1 -o 96 *4 +10 c.c. N/ 15 , , 1*2 95 *7 +10 c.c. N/ 10 " 1 *8 93 -6 +10 c.c. 3N/ 20 " 3*0 89*3 + 10 c.c. N/ 4 " 28 *0 0 +10 c.c. N/ 2 , , 28 *0 0 It will be seen from the above table that nearly complete precipitation takes place only when the concentration of the calcium salt in the mixture lies between N/ 50 and 311/ 20 .
When the concentration reaches N/ 4 no precipitation takes place .
If , however , a drop of rennet extract is added to the mixture containing the higher concentrations of the calcium salt , precipitation takes place after the interval of a few minutes .
Without such addition , no precipitation occurs even after prolonged standing .
The product obtained by the above described reaction appears to be a calcium salt produced by double decomposition between the sodium caseinogenate and calcium chloride .
For analysis , the precipitate was washed with 50-per-cent , alcohol , till free from chloride , and then with alcohol and ether , and air-dried .
It is a true precipitate which lacks the characteristic physical properties of a clot , which are described below .
Other Methods of Inhibiting Precipitation.\#151 ; The formation of the precipitate can also be inhibited when the optimal proportions of calcium salt are present by the addition of other substances .
In view of the conceptions advanced in the introduction to this paper , it was of importance to investigate more especially the inhibitory action of the substances contained in the milk serum .
This was prepared by the addition of sufficient rennet to skimmed milk .
As soon as the formation of the clot was complete it was broken up , and the serum was filtered off through muslin , boiled , and again filtered from the protein coagulum .
In addition to the action of milk serum , the inhibitory action of Witte 's peptone and of glycine were investigated .
Some of the results are recorded in the following table:\#151 ; 1913 .
] Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
471 1 c.c. caseinogenate solution\#151 ; + 0*1 c.c. N CaCl .
, solution+ 0*9 c.c. water Immediate precipitate .
55 +07 " + 0*2 c.c. serum Almost immediate pre\#187 ; 55 + 0'5 " + 0*4 55 cipitate .
Precipitate nearly com ?
\gt ; 55 + 0-3 " + 0*6 plete .
Precipitate incomplete .
55 55 +o-i " + 0*8 \gt ; \gt ; No precipitate.* 55 55 + 0-9 \gt ; \gt ; * \gt ; \#187 ; In the cases where no precipitate was formed in the cold ( indicated by an asterisk , * ) , it came on warming gently ( in the hand ) , but disappeared again on cooling .
A reversible reaction apparently takes place .
If , however , rennet is added , the precipitate is rendered permanent .
The same phenomena were observed in a further series of similar experiments , in which , in one case , a 5-per-cent , solution of Witte 's peptone , and , in another case , 10-per-cent , solution of glycine , were employed instead of milk serum .
A further series of experiments was also carried out , in which only half the concentration of calcium salt was present , and the results are as follows:\#151 ; 1 c.c. caseinogenate solution\#151 ; + 0*1 c.c. N/ 2 CaCL\gt ; solution+ 0*9 c.c. water Immediate precipitate .
+ 0-7 " + 0*2 c.c. serum Turbidity , precipitate on warming which is rendered permanent by rennet .
55 5 ) +0-5 " + 0-4 55 55 55 55 55 + 0'3 " + 0*6 55 Precipitate only on warming + rennet .
55 55 +o-i " + 0*8 55 No precipitate .
55 55 + 0-9 55 No precipitate even on warming and when rennet is present .
Similar results were obtained in experiments in the presence of Witte 's peptone and glycine .
It will be seen from the above tables that the .conditions necessary for the production of a permanent precipitate are somewhat complex , and depend on the relative quantities of inhibitory substances and calcium salt present .
They require investigation in greater detail .
Whatever interpretation may be given to the particular action , it will be seen that the ferment can produce an aggregation in a system where it is otherwise inhibited by the presence of simple noil-colloidal substances , although , perhaps , the interpretation of its action is not as simple as that suggested in the introduction of this paper .
This point will , however , receive attention later , in the discussion of the mechanism of clot formation .
472 Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. 6 .
Action of Calcium Chloride on the Solution of Natural Calcium .
Production of Clot without Intervention of Rennet .
To portions of 10 c.c. of a saturated solution of caseinogen in \ sat. Ca(OH)2 , in a series of test-tubes , were added 10 c.c. of calcium chloride solutions of the following concentrations : N/ 25 , 17/ 20 , N/ 15 , N/ 10 , 3N/ 20 , N/ 5 , N/ 4 , N/ 2 , On allowing these mixtures to stand at room temperature no change was observed .
On putting the tubes in an incubator , however , the solutions all clotted when the concentrations of the calcium chloride added did not exceed 3N/ 20 .
When the concentration was 17/ 5 , an incomplete clot formed , but above this limit the liquid remained turbid , and gave no indications of a clot even after prolonged warming in an incubator .
The addition of rennet in these cases produced , however , an aggregation even after a short interval .
The clots produced all shrank after standing , leaving , when clotting had been complete , a clear supernatant fluid .
They possessed , furthermore , a characteristic physical property , which they share in common with the clot produced directly by the action of rennet on milk , and which distinguishes them from precipitated caseinogen , for whereas the latter , on treatment with alcohol , does not alter in the general appearance , the former yield an indiarubber-like mass , which , on further treatment with alcohol , is converted into hard granular products , which can be pulverised only with some difficulty.* Clot formation can be inhibited not only by excess of the calcium salt , but also by milk serum and solutions of Witte 's peptone and glycine .
These experiments were carried out with 17/ 25 CaCl2 in milk serum concentrated to half the original bulk in vacuo , in milk serum in its original concentration , in 5-per-cent .
Witte 's peptone solution , and in 10-per cent , glycine ; 5 e.c. of these various solutions were added to 5 c.c. of the caseinogenate solution , and the mixtures were allowed to stand for one hour at 37 ' .
At the end of the period no trace of clotting had taken place .
The addition of one drop of rennet solution caused the clot to form in less than five minutes .
The solutions containing the peptone clotted somewhat more slowly , and the clot formed differed somewhat in character from the other clots , for whereas the latter were firm and shrank in the characteristic manner , the former was more liquid and shrank to a heavy oil .
The behaviour of solutions of calcium and sodium caseinogenate towards calcium chloride were in most respects similar , aggregation taking place within only certain definite limits of concentration and being inhibited by * Ringer { loc. cit.\ by the action of calcium chloride on a solution of calcium " caseinogenate , " produced a curdy deposit in the cold .
This reaction differs from the one described above .
Ringer 's " caseinogenate " solution behaves , in fact , as a " metacaseino-genate " solution , the action of calcium chloride on which is described on p. 473 .
1913 .
] Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
the presence of milk serum , Witte 's peptone , and glycine .
But whereas the sodium caseinogenate formed precipitates immediately in the cold , which precipitates were not altered in appearance by treatment with alcohol , the calcium salt reacted only on slight warming ( the temperature of 25 ' is sufficient to produce clot formation ) , and yielded not a precipitate but an aggregation with the characteristic physical appearance and properties of an ordinary milk clot .
In both cases rennet could produce aggregation which had been inhibited by the presence of simple adsorbable substances .
Clot formation could also be produced by the action of strontium and barium chlorides .
The former acted quantitatively , like calcium chloride , but the latter had a greater range of action , producing a clot when the calcium caseinogenate solutions were diluted with equal volumes of barium chloride solutions in concentrations varying from 17/ 50 to NT/ 5 .
Even when the concentration reached 17/ 4 a nearly complete clot was formed .
Sodium chloride , when added in concentrations of 17/ 50 to 517 ( nearly saturated solution ) , produced no action .
Action of Calcium Chloride on Calcium Metacaseinogenate .
A preparation of metacaseinogen was made by warming " natural , r caseinogen for two days with water at 37 ' .
The action of calcium chloride solutions on a saturated solution of this preparation in sat. Ca(OH)2 was investigated .
Again an " irregular series " of reactions was produced , but no clots .
In the optimal concentrations of calcium chloride only a very partial precipitation was produced , but no precipitate formed ( only an opaque fluid ) in the presence of excess of this reagent .
In these cases , the addition of rennet also produced a precipitate .
The general results are indicated in the following table , which illustrates the marked contrast between the behaviour of caseinogen and metacaseinogen :\#151 ; N in 10 c.c. of filtrate .
Percentage precipitated .
10 c.c. metacaseinogenate solution\#151 ; + 10 c.c. N/ 50 CaCL 10*4 0 +10 c.c. N/ 25 " 5*5 47 1 + 10 c.c. N/ 20 " 3 *5 66 -3 +10 c.c. N/ 15 " 3 0 71 1 + 10 c.c. N/ 10 " 3*8 63 -4 +10 c.c. N/ 5 " 6*9 33 -6 + 10 c.c. N/ 4 " 10 *4 0 +10 c.c. N/ 2 " 10 *4 0 474 Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. 6 , Other Methods of Obtaining Clots .
The General Character of Clot Formation .
The experiments already quoted seem at first sight to fully confirm the theory as to the general action of ferments and inhibitory substances indicated in the introduction .
They do not , however , indicate the actual chemical process of clot formation , and the whole subject is somewhat complicated by the fact that caseinogen itself is very labile .
Further investigations were therefore necessary to ascertain the nature of the chemical processes involved in clot formation , and to determine whether the change of caseinogen was a necessary preliminary , and whether calcium or any other alkaline earth was an essential constituent of the clot-producing system .
During the course of these additional researches , it was found that it was possible to produce a clot by other methods .
It was found that the calcium caseinogenate solution alone , and without the addition of another calcium salt , could produce a clot on the addition of rennet .
This clot formation , which can take place at room temperature , was , however , completely inhibited when the caseinogenate solution was diluted with a equal volume of milk serum , i.e. when the milk serum constituents were in only half the concentration in which they exist in milk .
In the presence of such quantities of inhibitory solutions , the presence of an additional calcium salt is necessary to produce a clot .
As caseinogen can be converted into metacaseinogen by water , it is conceivable that a similar reaction would take place more readily in the presence of rennet .
In this case calcium caseinogenate should form a mixture of free metacaseinogen and calcium metacaseinogenate and there would then exist in the system more metacaseinogen than is necessary to saturate all the calcium present , for , as has already been shown above , a saturated solution of this substance in \ sat. Ca(OH)2 contains only about a third of the amount of nitrogen contained in a corresponding solution of caseinogen .
As a matter of fact there is evidence , which is given in greater detail below , that the clot formed in the presence of rennet is produced from metacaseinogen .
It is conceivable , therefore , that the clots are formed from the free caseinogen or metacaseinogen directly and not from the calcium salts .
This supposition is also confirmed by other facts .
By reference to the table given on p. 464 it will be seen that J saturated lime water dissolves less than half the amount of caseinogen or metacaseinogen dissolved by half-saturated lime water , whereas completely saturated lime water dissolves only very little more than double the amount dissolved by the \ sat. Ca(OH)2 .
Repeated experiments on the solubility of natural caseinogen in l sat. Ca(OH)2 gave solubility numbers varying between 8 and 11 instead 1913 .
] Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
of the number 17 or 18 , which would have been expected , had the solubility been one-half of that in b sat. Ca(OH)2 .
As these figures indicate hydrolytic dissociation of the calcium salt in low dilutions , it is not unreasonable to suppose that the saturated solution of caseinogen in J sat. Ca(OH)2 undergoes a similar hydrolysis when the temperature is raised.* Now attention has been called to the fact that calcium chloride does not produce a clot with calcium caseinogenate at room temperature , but only when the mixture is slightly warmed ( e.g. to 25 ' ) .
If , however , the calcium caseinogenate is first treated with carbon dioxide gas , which produces by itself no precipitate , the subsequent addition of calcium chloride rapidly produces a clot in the cold .
Finally , it is possible to produce a clot from sodium caseinogenate solutions in the absence of calcium salts .
Rennet by itself produces no clot from such solutions ; if , however , they are treated first with carbon dioxide , the addition of the ferment solution causes clot production after a short interval , even in the cold .
There is evidence that the sodium salt does not readily undergo hydrolytic dissociation ( see table on p. 464 ) .
Carbon dioxide can apparently decompose the sodium salt and set free sufficient free caseinogen to allow the clotting process to take place .
Saturated solutions of metacaseinogen ( prepared by the treatment of " natural " caseinogen with water for 24 hours at 37 ' ) in J sat. Ca(OH)2 do not clot on the addition of rennet , and yield only a very faint precipitate on addition of the ferment after previous treatment with carbon dioxide .
The action of calcium chloride on these solutions has been already described .
By means of these reactions , metacaseinogen can be readily distinguished from caseinogen .
Caseinogen , after solution in alkalis and reprecipitation with acetic acid , can yield solutions in \ sat. Ca(OH)2 , which clot on the addition of rennet or calcium chloride .
Furthermore , clots can be produced by the same method from metacaseinogen which has been reconverted into caseinogen by treatment with alkalis ( with the usual precautions ) , provided that the former has not been changed too much by very prolonged action of water either at 37 ' or at higher temperatures .
Where such additional changes have been brought about , there is evidence of the partial scission of phosphoric acid from the caseinogen molecule .
In no case was it found possible to reconvert a metacaseinogen into a caseinogen with quite as high a solubility in \ sat. Ca(OH)2 as " natural " caseinogen .
Alkali appears , therefore , to exert some slight subsidiary action .
vol. lxxxvi \#151 ; 1\gt ; .
* Of .
Brailsford Robertson .
Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. 6 , The Chemical Nature of the Clot .
As already stated , clots , whether produced by calcium chloride alone , or by rennet alone , can be distinguished from metacaseinogen or caseinogen precipitates by the fact that , when moist , they yield an indiarubber-like mass on treatment with alcohol , whereas the unclotted material undergoes no visible change . .
A systematic examination was made of the clots prepared by various processes with the object of determining their relationship to caseinogen and metacaseinogen .
The rennet clot was formed by adding 1 c.c. of a commercial rennet solution to 50 c.c. of a saturated solution of " natural " caseinogen in sat. Ca(OH)2 .
The mixture was made in a high cylinder in the cold , and was then placed in an incubator .
After about 10 minutes , the whole had set to a solid clot , which was broken up , filtered off from the liquid , washed with ice-cold water , alcohol , and ether , and then air-dried .
It was then boiled with absolute alcohol for about 10 minutes to destroy the ferment , and analysed .
A portion was then dissolved in weak sodium hydroxide solution and reprecipitated , after filtration through pulp , by acetic acid , rapidly washed with ice-cold water after precipitation , and freed from water in the usual way .
The clot produced by calcium chloride was prepared by mixing the calcium caseinogenate solution with an equal volume of N/ 25 calcium chloride solution , and incubating the mixture until the clot had formed .
This was then filtered off , washed with 50-per-cent , alcohol until the washings were free from chlorine , then with absolute alcohol and ether , and then air-dried .
To free it from calcium it was treated in the same way as the rennet clot , i.e. redissolved in alkali ( NaOH ) , and reprecipitated with the usual precautions .
It was found that the clots produced by rennet alone and by calcium chloride alone differed in one important particular , for whereas the calcium chloride clot ( purified by solution in alkali and reprecipitation ) gave with \ sat. Ca(OH)2 a milky solution of high solubility ( more than 30 ) , which clotted on addition both of rennet and calcium chloride , the purified substance from the rennet clot yielded with the lime water of the same concentration only an opalescent solution ( solubility 12*5 ) , which gave a precipitate with an equal volume of X/ 25 calcium chloride solution , and no clot on addition of rennet .
The rennet clot differed therefore both from metacaseinogen and caseinogen , in that , even after re-solution in alkali , it no longer gave rise to a product capable of giving with J sat. Ca(OH)2 an opaque highly concentrated solution , from which clots can be formed .
1913 .
] Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
Experiments were next carried out to ascertain whether the treatment with alcohol had caused the difference between the calcium chloride and the rennet clots .
For this purpose a calcium chloride clot was obtained in the form of a dry powder , by the method described above , and then boiled for 10 minutes with alcohol , and purified by solution in alkali and reprecipitated .
The preparation thus obtained also gave with \ sat. Ca(OH)2 an opaque solution of high concentration ( 29*7 ) which did not clot on addition of rennet , and gave only an incomplete clot on addition of calcium chloride .
Alcohol , therefore , alters both the calcium chloride and the rennet clots .
The fact may be recalled that caseinogen on heating with alcohol is not altered , but yields a solution in sat. Ca(OH)2 , which readily clots both on addition of rennet and calcium chloride .
The clot produced by calcium chloride alone , however , on re-solution in alkali , is readily converted into caseinogen , whereas the clot produced by rennet alone , even after redissolving in alkali , yields a product of low solubility in % sat. Ca(OH)2 from which no clot could be produced .
It was unfortunately necessary to heat the rennet clot with alcohol to destroy the ferment , and as there is evidence that the calcium chloride clot is also altered by this treatment , the question as to whether the rennet clot can be reconverted into a clottable caseinogen remains for the present unsolved .
Numerous other experiments were carried out with the object of preparing a clottable calcium caseinogenate solution from the rennet clot .
The ferment in one experiment was destroyed by heating with water , and then after drying with alcohol and ether was redissolved in sodium hydroxide solution and reprecipitated by acid .
In another experiment the clot , after washing with ice-cold water , was directly dissolved ( whilst still moist ) in sodium hydroxide solution , reprecipitated , dried in the usual way , and then heated for a few minutes with boiling alcohol , a treatment which causes no change in caseinogen .
In no case was a product of greater solubility than 17 to 20 in ^ sat. Ca(OH)2 obtained , which is only about half that of natural caseinogen .
The solutions were in all cases translucent and yielded no clot either with calcium chloride or with rennet .
The evidence obtained so far tends to indicate that rennet alters caseinogen in such a way that it is not reconvertible into caseinogen .
The fact that both descriptions of clot are altered by alcohol , whereas caseinogen is not , indicates that the latter undergoes some change during the process of clot formation .
The fact , however , that the rennet clot , even after re-solution in alkali , gives a product of low solubility in lime water , whereas the calcium chloride clot gives one of high solubility ( even after treatment with hot alcohol ) , indicates that the caseinogen under the influence of rennet 478 Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. 6 , is converted into metacaseinogen , which undergoes some further alteration , whereas in the absence of rennet it can form a clot without undergoing this change .
The clot produced by the direct action of rennet on milk , which was prepared in the same way as the rennet clot from pure calcium caseinogenate solution , behaved in the same way as the latter , yielding after purification a product of low solubility in lime water .
It contained , as the analyses* indicate , products other than those derived from caseinogen , carried down from the milk .
The analyses show furthermore that the nitrogen-phosphorus ratios in caseinogen , metacaseinogen ( unless heated for too long a period ) , and in the clots produced both by calcium salts and rennet are the same .
There is no evidence , therefore , of any proteoclastic digestion produced by the rennet .
The change of caseinogen into metacaseinogen is not an essential for clot formation , which can , furthermore , be inhibited by the presence of various adsorbable substances .
Owing to the lability of caseinogen , especially under the action of rennet , it is not possible to conclude from the experiments on milk-clot formation that the ferment exerts a direct antagonising influence on the substances inhibiting aggregation , although such an action is not by any means improbable .
Nor is it possible from the above experiments to directly formulate the chemical changes which take place in clot formation .
The evidence points to the fact that it is the free caseinogen which is changed .
This substance , as a complex polybasic acid , can conceivably undergo many changes by the simple scission of the elements of water , and although it is not possible to express in the form of an equation the conversion of caseinogen into casein , such a change does not appear to be at all mysterious when considered from a chemical standpoint .
Summary and Conclusions .
1 .
A preliminary account is given of the action of calcium salts on sodium cholate ( cholalate ) .
When solutions of these substances are mixed , a clot is formed on heating .
Investigations were carried out with the object of determining the relationships between the clotting time and the amounts and characters of the calcium salts .
It was found that , in the case of those salts which raise the surface tension of water , the greater the concentration of the salt the shorter was the time required for clot formation .
In the case of salts which lower the surface tension , on the other hand , increase of concentration decreased the clotting time only up to a certain limit of optimal concentration .
Above this limit the clotting time was diminished , or the clot formation inhibited entirely .
The more a salt * These analyses are not published in this communication .
1913 .
] Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
lowers the surface tension of water the narrower the limits of concentration within which clot formation is impossible .
The inhibition of intravascular clotting after peptone injection is probably a similar phenomenon .
2 .
This inhibition of clotting is probably due to the adsorption of simple molecules by the more complex colloidal substances , which are thereby inhibited from aggregation to form a clot .
The results suggested that in other cases , such as that of milk , the materials necessary for clot formation pre-exist , but that aggregation is prevented by the adsorption of simpler molecules from the system .
The conception was formed that a ferment , for which the colloidal substances could act as a substrate , could clear the surface of such substances of adsorbed bodies and thus allow aggregation ( clot ) formation to take place .
If such an action of ferments takes place it might be possible to explain the function of the intracellular ferments .
If they tict in the manner suggested , an aggregation equilibrium in the system\#151 ; colloids ( proteins , etc. ) , simpler adsorbable substances ( extractives , etc. ) , ferment\#151 ; would be maintained and would be probably necessary for the maintenance of the normal functions of the cell .
There would , in this respect , exist a contrast between the " solid " tissues and the fluids of the body .
3 .
In attempting to apply this hypothesis to explain the clotting of milk , efforts were made to obtain a " natural " caseinogen .
It is already known that caseinogen forms with alkalis solutions of very acid salts , and considerable differences were found in the individual preparations with regard to the amount of caseinogen dissolved by alkalis .
The solubility in half-saturated lime water was employed as the criterion for differentiating the various preparations .
It was found that if caseinogen is prepared in such a way that it is allowed to remain for as short a time as possible with acetic acid used for its precipitation ( 1 in 1000 ) , a product is obtained which gives an opaque milky fluid containing nearly 8 per cent , of caseinogen .
If such a preparation is heated with water at 37 ' , or allowed to stand with the acetic acid ( 1 in 1000 ) at room temperature , it gives rise to a product , the solubility of which in lime water is only about A of that of natural caseinogen .
This has been designated " metacaseinogen , " the solution of which in half-saturated lime water is opalescent and not opaque .
Metacaseinogen can be reconverted into caseinogen by solution in sodium hydroxide and precipitation with acetic acid , provided that the precautions are taken that the precipitate does not remain too long in contact with the acid .
The solvent capacity of sodium hydroxide approximates to that of an equimolar ( not equinormal ) solution of calcium hydroxide .
4 .
The action of calcium chloride solutions on a saturated solution of 480 Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations on the [ Mar. 6 , caseinogen in sodium hydroxide equimolar with half-saturated lime water was investigated .
It was found that a precipitate was formed ( apparently by double decomposition ) only when the concentration of the calcium salt was within certain definite limits .
The reactions form an " irregular series ' ' similar to many others where one of the reacting substances is a complex colloid .
If rennet is added to a mixture in which precipitation is inhibited by excess of calcium salt an action takes place , and a precipitate is formed shortly after the addition of the ferment .
5 .
If the optimal amount of calcium salt is present , precipitate formation can also be inhibited by the presence of milk serum , Witte 's peptone , or even glycine .
The addition of rennet to such mixtures can cause precipitation , provided that not too much inhibitory substance is present .
The amount of calcium salt also influences the reaction , which depends therefore on the relative quantities of various products present in the system .
The relative influence of these substances has not yet been investigated in detail .
The precipitating power of calcium salts other than the chloride has also been investigated .
6 .
If solutions of calcium chloride or the salts of another alkaline earth are added to a saturated solution of natural caseinogen in \#163 ; sat. Ca(OH)2 no precipitate is formed at room temperature .
If , however , the mixtures are warmed slightly ( to 25 ' ) , a typical clot is formed within certain limits of concentration of the calcium chloride .
This shrinks , and gives on treatment with alcohol an indiarubber-like mass , and behaves , generally , in a manner characteristic of the milk clot obtained by rennet .
In optimal concentrations of the calcium salt , clot formation can also be inhibited by the presence of milk serum , Witte 's peptone and glycine .
The addition of rennet to mixtures containing these inhibitory substances can cause the clot to form directly .
7 .
There is reason to believe that the clot is formed from free caseinogen or metacaseinogen and not from the calcium salt .
The chief are :\#151 ; ( a ) The clot after addition of calcium chloride forms only on warming , and there is evidence that the calcium caseinogenate , under these conditions , undergoes hydrolytic dissociation .
( b ) The clot can , however , form in the cold , if the caseinogenate solution is previously treated with carbon dioxide .
( c ) The clot can be formed from sodium caseinogenate solutions , in the absence of calcium , if the latter are treated first with carbon dioxide and then with rennet .
8 .
Calcium ( but not sodium ) caseinogenate solutions clot on addition of rennet in the absence of calcium chloride .
Clot formation under these conditions is , however , inhibited by relatively low concentrations of milk serum .
1913 .
] Phenomena of " Clot " Formations .
9 .
Solutions of calcium metacaseinogenate are , under optimal conditions of concentration , only incompletely precipitated by calcium salts , and do not clot on addition of rennet .
10 .
There is evidence that ' the clot formed on addition of rennet alone is formed from metacaseinogen , as it has a low solubility in half saturated lime water , whereas that formed by addition of calcium chloride alone is formed from caseinogen .
Rennet appears also to cause some further change , as up to the present all attempts to reconvert the clot into natural caseinogen ( by action of alkalis , etc. ) have failed .
In this respect , the casein differs from metacaseinogen .
Clottable caseinogenate solutions can , however , be readily prepared from clots produced by the action of calcium chloride alone .
11 .
It is not possible to formulate accurately the relationships of caseinogen , metacaseinogen , and the clots to one another .
Analyses negative the suggestion of anything of the nature of proteoclastic digestion on addition of the rennet .
The products are possibly formed from one another by the scission or addition of the elements of water from or to the acid hydroxyl groups , and possibly the various products bear the same relation to one another as do , e.g. the pyro- , ortho- , and metaphosphates .
12 .
Although many of the facts appear to support the hypothesis as to ferment actions given above ( para .
2 ) , the same cannot be said to be definitely proved by the facts elicited in the study of the phenomenon of milk clotting .
The process is rendered more difficult of comprehension by the peculiar instability of caseinogen .
There is no doubt , however , that in milk the clot formation depends upon the presence of four series of substances in the system , viz. , simple inhibitory substances , colloids , ferment and calcium salt , even if their relative actions cannot be formulated in as simple a manner as that suggested .

