VI .
An Account of a Book , viz. Edmundi Dickensoni M. D. Physica vetus &amp; vera , sive , Tractatus de Naturali veritate hexameri Mosaici .
Per quem Probatur in historia Creationis cum generationis Universae methodum atq ; modum , tum verae Philosophiae principia , strictim atq ; Breviter tradi .
Londini 1702 .
in 40 .
MAny persons having cavill 'd at the Mosaical Cosmopaeia , as unphilosophically written , this Learned Author here takes upon him to show , that Moses , in his History of the Creation , has briefly delivered both the principles of true Philosophy , and the method and manner of all generation .
Undertaking to elucidate the Mosaic Philosophy , and conceiving it cannot be better done , than by the Corpuscularian , or Atomical Philosophy ( as being most sitted for explaining and proving the generation of things ) he has thought it necessary , in the first place , to remove that great prejudice , which many learned men have had against this kind of Philosophy ; and having intimated its Antiquity , he says that all the ancient Greek Corpuscularian Philosophers before Anaximender , who was Disciple and Successor to Thales , maintained a Deity ; which he denied , and initiated many Atheistical Philosophers among the Ionicks , till Anaxagoras , that famous Corpuscularian , restored the Doctrine of Thales , and to the Particles of Corpuseles ( as Thales had done before ) added a mind , that is , God to work all things ; and the Author says , afterward all ( excepting Epicurus , and his followers ) granting these Principles , were so far from thinking the World could be made by chance , that they held an infinite Wisdom , or mind directing all things , that is , a God wholly necessary for it , who from an inform and confused matter , made and established this wonderful order and ornament we see .
He urges the excellency of the Mosaic Philosophy from its Antiquity , as having been derived by a continued Tradition from our first Parents .
That Noah received it , and his Sons , especially Sem and Japheth , it is not to be doubted ; who we may believe took care to convey it to Posterity , and tho mankind sell by degrees from Piety to a Licentiousness in all Vice ; so that all , in a manner , neglected , or wholly despised their Creator , whereby their minds were blinded , as to the notions they had imbibed concerning God and Nature ; so that whatever Doctrines they set up afterward concerning beginnings , were very obscure and imperfect , or trivial and false : Yet in the Family of Heber the true knowledge continued longer , who delivered it to the Hebrews descended from him .
And he thinks no principles of Philosophy may be found , which more aptly agree both to Chemical and Mechanical experience , or so fitly quadrate to those things that now offer , as those which may be formed and drawn according to the seat of the Mosaic Wisdom , and then he lays down the four sollowing propositions as a foundation to build his Doctrine upon .
1 .
That the wisdom of the Mosaic Cosmology can scarce be understood , unless we first know those Principles of Philosophy which Moses had regard to , when he applied himself to write of the origin of all things .
2 .
Those principles can neither be discerned by reason , nor be well conjectured at , unless we first know what principles of Philosophy prevailed in that Age .
3 .
That the Philosophy of that Age was Corpusculary , holding that whatsoever was contained within the Heavens and Terraqueous Globe , was made of most subtle Particles .
4 .
That this way of Philosophising did not only prevail over one or two Provinces ; but was diffused in a manner thro all Nations , who applied themselves to the speculation of Nature , tho especially ( as it is believed ) thro Phaenicia , AEgypt , Idumaea and Arabia .
Upon a diligent enquiry after that knowledge of Nature , in which the Sons of Noah formerly concurred , no explication of Nature seems to him more favoured , none more true and ancient , than that which teaches that all concretions made from the beginning , and all Generations afterwards , rise from Minute Corpuseles or Atoms .
These , he says , were those principles of Philosophising , which all natural Philosophers , Egyptians , Phaenicians , Arabians , Hebrews , Syrians , Indians , Brittains and Greeks , embraced from all Ancient time , and which were used as Keys for opening the secrets of Nature , till about the year of the World 3560 .
Now , he says , tho the most Ancient Sages , both before and after the Flood , had the same sentiments of the nature of things , and laid down the same Foundation of Philosophising ; yet they gave not the same names to their Principles ; for some called the matter of all things to be generated , Waters , others either Sand or Dust , or Particles , or Atoms , or Monads , as the Pythagoreans .
The Hebrew Technical word which is given to the principle of natural things is Chiuk , which signifies Sand , and the Arabic word is Hiule or Hiul , which signifies the sirst matter , and also Sand from hala , which is to pour forth Sand , whence halon is poured forth .
Now from these Hebrew and Arabic words the Egyptians , Syrians and Greeks took their word hyle , to denote the same , and the Phaenicians , Ilus : both which words also at first signified minute Particles severed like Sand .
Moses first called all the Matter , of which the World was made , Heaven and Earth , then Earth alone , then , by reason of the Profundity , the Abyss , and then Waters , tho he scarce thinks this word was first used by Moses , to notify the Matter of the World ; but looks upon it as in use with Philosophers for some Ages before ; and , perhaps before the times of Abraham , because we read that the Druides in Europe , and the Brachmans in India always thought Water to be the principle of things , and there are Learned men that say , the latter were taught their Philosophy by Abraham ; and Magasthones in his India says , that the same principles of Philosophy that flourished in Greece , were Antiently used in India among the Brachmans ; and , if we believe Aventinus , in the time of Hermion , King of the Germans , who Reigned when Isaac was not 40 years of Age , Colledges of the Druides were flourishing .
Next , having premitted some things concerning the Chaos and the extent of the Mosaic Creation , he proceeds to give an account of the six days work , where he has shown much Learning in setting forth how all things past in a natural order .
Then he tells us of the Creation of Matter , or the Chaos , contrary to the opinion of those who held Matter eternal , wrongly grounding themselves on this Maxim , Nothing is made of nothing ; which Maxim was introduced by the first Philosophers , who were Corpuscularians , and held only two principles of all Generations , viz. an active Power , which was Spiritual and Incorporeal , and a Passive , viz. Matter , and apprehended nothing in the Nature of Body , beside matter various ways disposed by magnitude , figure , life and motion ; or rest , conceiving in no Generation , a new substance to be produced , but only the old to be mixed and changed after other ways , so that a new species of things arises , as another mixture and turn of matter give it new sorms and qualities ; not that they thought those forms and qualities had a real existence in that thing , to which they were said to belong ; but that they are only our sensations , to which they seem to have a being , for if they had a real being , new entities would arise daily from nothing by ordinary generation , which would be absurd to think .
Therefore they wisely inculcated the above-mention 'd Maxim , Nothing is generated of nothing , viz. by the power of nature ; for they understood it of natural productions , and brought it in , to take away qualities and substantial forms .
But Philosophers of after ages wrested the force of that Maxim to set up an aeternity of Matter , conceiving it absolutely and always necessary that whatsoever arises be generated from another thing , either because they thought that nothing but what is material and corporeal ever existed , which because it could not make it self , they believed to be eternal : or if they denied not an Immaterial power , or a God , yet they considered not his omnipotency , as able to create matter of nothing : or if they thought it could be created by God , why do they think it was not created , but existed before the world was made ; since Matter existing , nothing was wanting but motion for the formation of the Heavens and Earth .
Speaking concerning the motion of Matter , he says , God gave it that motion , and at the motion of the Matter , which he excited , he created that power which we call Nature , this being nothing but the motion of Matter , made according to the Laws , which the prime Author of Nature established in the beginning .
He treats next of the primigenial Fire and Light , or of the first Heaven , and shows after what order it was made , upon a motion of the Particles ; and says , it pleased God among those works which he put under the Laws of Nature , from the beginning to institute some great Miracles here and there , above the power of Nature , more signally to show he was Lord of the frame of the world , and that the Divine Mind is always to give rule to Nature : and shows by many Suggestions and Chemical Experiments , that it 's no absurdity in Reason to admit the SuH hhhhhh per percaelestial Waters intimated by Moses , whatsoever some may object .
Treating of the Expansum , or Inferior Heaven , he says that according to the Mosaic Physiology , the Heavens , generated of the Abyssine , or Chaotick Waters , are divided only into two Orbs , called by the names of the Superior and inferior Heavens ( tho others have made several Celestial Orbs ) and having spoke of the Superior Heaven in the foregoing Chapter , he tells us here , that the Inferior Heaven , the work of the second day , is called by Moses the Expansum , and comprehends all the space from the Terraqueous Orb to the Empyreal Heaven , or the AEther , tho with this distinction , that its superior part , which is far the greater is called Sidereal ; the Inferior , next the Earth , Aerial : and then he tells us how this inferior Heaven was sram 'd : and as for the Caelum Caelorum , mentioned by Moses , called by S. Paul the Third Heaven , he says , it 's a Supra mundane Light , to which no Mortal can have access .
Treating of the Chaotick or Elementary Waters , he says that tho Moses , and the Brachmans and the Druides , long before him , said Water was the principle of all things , yet he thinks neither Moses nor the others understood it to be true or natural Water , but only Metaphysical , viz. that immense Multitude of Chaotick particles , of which all things were made in the beginning ; which when they were moved by God , presented an appearance , as it were , of waters ; nor is the nature of water , speaking Philosophically , any thing but a multitude of round and smooth Particles circulating about their Center : and he produces many arguments for making out what he has here laid down .
Treating of the Chaotical and Elementary Earth , he tells us of the great delight Nature takes in changing all things , and making again the like .
This , he says , can be performed in all Elements , even by the Industry of Art : So not only the Solar Fire , every where diffused in the rays of the Sun , but likewise the Kitchen Flame may be made Earth by Nature and the help of Art ; this the burning of Brick in a Brickill , and the Calcination of Antimony by the rays of the Sun , evidently show , since upon burning ( tho many parts fly away in steams and smoke ) they get a considerable increase and weight , the siery particles being detained in the Burnt thing , and so turned into an Earthly Nature .
Nor is the Conversion of the Solar Fire into Earth unknown to skilful Chymists , who so prepare several dry things , that they magnetically attract the most fervent Rays of the Sun , and so retain them , that the get an egregious and dry weight : and the Hermetick ~ owe a great part of their Natural Tincture to the flam of Fire .
Again , he tells us , the Earth itself ( but first turn ' into Salt ) can be wholly turned into Water ; and the most pure Water , by a very strong and tedious distillatition , without any addition , or scarce any diminution , may be made a white Earth .
Nor does he doubt but the Air also , as well by other ways , as by a violent agitation and concussion of its parts ( such as is made by the Water , and a discharging Guns , especially of those which are charged with Air alone vehemently compressed ) may be so broken and attenuated , that its broken fine Particles , being joined and afsixt anew afterward , either to themselves , or to other particles , may make either Fiery , or Watery , or perhaps Earthly concretions , which being now become heavy , the Elastick force of the Air drives to the Earth .
Treating of the Egyptian Israelites , to show that they were not so stupidly Ignorant , as some pretend they were , and incapable of a Philosophical Instruction from Moses , he says it 's known , all the posterity of Israel were called the Sons and House of Israel , and so the posterity of Abraham were called his house and Sons , whom he commanded to keep the ways of Jehovah , which were that secret path of wisdom , Which is the knowledge of divine Hhhhhhh2 and and humane things , and of the Causes in which these things are contained ; wherefore we may believe that Abraham trained his House , which grew up to a People , or Nation , in divine , Moral , and Natural Knowledge .
Eupolemus testifies that Abraham was most familiarly conversant with the Heliopolitan Priests in AEgypt , and taught them those Sciences he brought with him especially the Celestial Science , Astrology .
Vales Jacob had been well skil 'd in Nature , and well seen in the ways of raising and fortifying the Imagination , and had also known the essicacy and property of the rods he used , and had well considered the powers of the Stars and fit Seasons , or he had not provided to himself so many spotted and ring-streak 'd Sheep .
The same Learning was in his Children , continued in vigour among their posterity : So that Theophraslus says the Jews were naturally Philosophers , they were so trained to it from their youth .
Many more arguments he produces , for proving the continuance of good Learning amongst the Hebrews , and that it was suppressed by their Slavery in AEgypt .
Treating concerning Moses , he says there were but six men betwixt him and Adam , viz. Methusalem , Noah , Sem , Isaac , ` ` Joseph and Amram , Moses 's Father ; so that if we allow not Moses to have received his knowledge by inspiration from God , we cannot doubt but he received by Tradition whatsoever there was of Learning among the Antediluvian fathers , and to have learnt the origin of the Universe .
He says , it 's well known Astrology and Chemistry flourished in AEgypt in the time of Moses , by which the Inward natures of Celestial and Terrestrial things are made known , his Skill in Chemistry appeared by his reducing the Golden Calf to a powder , and dissolving it in commonwater : And he says there is a ready method , known only to Philosophers , by which method Gold , having a secret Powder put into it , is presently made a Powder dissolvable in Water , and he conceives this way was used by Moses .
If it be objected , it 's no way likely that Moses turned the Golden Calf into Powder by Chemistry , but as it 's expressly said ) by burning ; and that it 's not probable Moses knew that Art , of which no mention is made in Sacred or Prophane Writers , it being a new Invention which no man mentioned before Julius Firmicus , who writ about the time of the Emperor Constantine .
To this he answers , He owns no express mention is made of it in the Scriptures , but he thinks they enforce us by a necessity of Consequence to believe that Moses sometimes did something great by that Science .
And he says it 's clearly proved , the Science of Chemistry was much more ancient than Moses , by those many things which are said of Tubal Cain or Vulcan ; since when Moses said he was a master of every Artifice in Iron and Brass , all the ancient Sages understood it of his Skill in Chemistry .
Hence the Egyptians , in that Temple which at Memphis was dedicated to Vulcan , erected a School of Chemistry , which there long flourished , as we are told by Zozimus , Panopolitus , Eusebius , Synesius , and others .
And Abulpharagius tells us , he found in ancient Records , that in AEgypt , after the deluge , they were Learned in many Sciences , and especially in the Sciences of Chemistry , Talismans , and Burning-Glasses , He adds one argument for the Antiquity of Chemistry , from Gen. 6 .
where Jehovah commands Noah to make a clear light for the use of the Ark , which he desires leave of the Learned to believe , was a splendour of a Fiery and Sulphureous Liquor prepared by the Artifice of Noah , and put in Vessels of the Lapis specularis , or of Crystal , or , happily , of Glass , and hung in such places of the Ark , to enlighten all the Cells of the animals : the subtle effluvia of the Liquor also supported and kept in health the Animals without that gross food , which might otherwise have been necessary for them , and would have required more room for stowage than may well be accounted for , according to those dimensions we have of the Ark : And this he endeavours to make out by many suggestions .
Printed for S. Smith and B. Walford , Printers to the Royal Society , at the Princes Arms in St. Pauls Churchyard , 1702 .

