]\gt ; 1882 .
] W. Spottiswoode .
On Russell 's Integrals .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Fawcett was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. ' Note on Mr. Russell 's paper , ' On certain Definite Integrals .
No. 10.\ldquo ; ' By WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , D.C. , LL. D. , Pres. R.S. Received January 30 , 1882 .
If in Mr. ussell 's paper*we take the standard forms\mdash ; we have for eliminating , the five equations:\mdash ; the last of which alone contains and may therefore be omitted for the present purpose .
Combining the remaining equations , it will be found that from which both and have simultaneously disappeared .
Hence we have the three equations\mdash ; for the elimination proposed .
These readily give\mdash ; Again , for the sextic\mdash ; * ' ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 33 , p. 258 .
342 W. Spottiswoode .
Russells Integrals .
[ Feb. 9 , , omitting as before the last equation , , that connecting Combining these , it will be found not only that , as in the case of the quartic , ; but also that from which both and have simultaneously disappeared .
Hence we have for the elimination of , the four equations:\mdash ; from which it is easy to derive the two final conditions\mdash ; and It would perhaps be difficult to the results for the general case by the present method ; but if the question be regarded from a different point of view , we see not only how many ions will exist in general , but also what will be their form ; and , moreover , we can actually obtain them in any particular case .
The problem is in fact identical with that of ding the conditions under which an equation of the can be solved by means of an equation of the degree .
To answer this , have merely to substitute in the equation for , and eqmate to zero the coefficients of the odd powers of This will give equations , from which we can of course eliminate in ways ; and the results of the eliminations will consequently be the conditions sought , in number .
Applying this to the case of the sextic , we have ; Dr. W. Flight .
On Meteorites .
343 1882 .
] and if we equate to zero the coefficients of , we shall have the , Whence , eliminating between the first and second of these , we , ; or , developing the expressions , ( 1 ) as before , and ( 2 ) .
In order to bring this to the same form as the condition found by the other method , we have only to write , for ( 2 ) , the followlng , which gives as before .
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further , as the method is perfectly general and obvious in its application .
II .
" " Report of an Examination of the Meteorites of Cranbourne , Australia ; of Rowton , ; and of Middlesbroug , in Yorkshire By WALTER FLIGHT , D.Sc .
, , of the Department of Mineralogy , British Museum , South Kensington .
Communicated by H. DEBUS , Ph. D. , F.B.S. Received January 19 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) I.\mdash ; The Siderites of Cranbour .
no , near Jfelbonrno , The large masses of meteoric iron found at Cranbourne , near Melbourne , Australia , were known as far back as 1854 .
The larger bloc was bought by Mr. A. Bruce , now of Chislehurst , for one sovere who determined to present it to the British Museum .
The smaller mass , weighing a few hundredweight , became the property Abel , and was sent to the Intel.national tlon of 1862 .
len

