[ 485 ] X. Experimental Researches on Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration.\#151 ; No. I. On a New Method for Investigating the Carbonic Acid Exchanges of Plants .
By F. Frost Blackman , B.Sc. , B.A. , St. John 's College , Senior Demonstrator of Botany in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by F. Darwin , F.R.S. Received November 15 , \#151 ; Read December 6 , 1894 .
Introduction .
For the methods employed up to the present for the determination of C02 in its physiological relations , Botany is indebted to all three classes of chemical analysis , to volumetric , gravimetric , and gasometric analysis .
To the last belong those methods which have been of great value in giving the relation of 02 and C02 exchange within a given time in either respiration or assimilation .
These were the earliest used , and consist in placing a plant or part of a plant within a closed receiver containing a suitable mixture of gases and determining the exact composition of this before and after the experiment .
From the reduced volumes , measured after absorption of the C02 by potash , and of the O by phosphorus , the quantities of either-gas liberated or destroyed can be calculated .
To De Saussure , Boussingault , Godlewski , and , above all , Pfeffer , we owe researches based on this method .
The method has yielded valuable results in past times , but the corrections and actual analysis , according to the old standard methods of Bunsen , are lengthy and laborious , while in the modern procedure , simplification of operation is obtained somewhat at the expense of accuracy .
The whole method is open to the physiological objections to the use of a closed chamber , and to the continuous , and in a lengthy experiment often considerable , variations of composition which the contained gas must undergo .
Nor is it adapted to yield a series of connected results .
Farly attempts to determine C02 by weighing as carbonate of an alkaline earth ( Garreau , 'Ann .
Sci. Not ./ 3 Ser. , 13 , 1850 ) , met with but small success , but from gravimetric analysis botanists have successfully borrowed the use of the well known Liebig 's potash bulbs .
With this method also the actual experiment is usually conducted in a closed receiver , containing , at the commencement , air of known C02 17.6.95 content .
At the end of the experiment the whole of the contained air is drawn through the potash bulbs with a current of air free from C02 , and the increase in weight of the bulbs gives the amount of C02 then contained in the receiver .
This method , employed by Detmer , Kreussler , and Deherain , is simple and convenient but not very delicate , and from the liability of the absorbing potash to lose or gain water , not to be used for experiments of long duration .
The volumetric or method of titration is the one capable of the greatest delicacy in the estimation of C02 .
The usual procedure is to experiment in a continuous current of air first freed from atmospheric C02 , and finally passing through a known volume of standardized solution of baryta , by which the C02 that has been taken up from the respiring material is absorbed .
At the end of the experiment the solution is decanted and allowed to stand well corked from the atmosphere , until the precipitate of barium carbonate has settled , when a pipette full of the clear liquid is drawn off and titrated against the same amount of the original solution .
The loss of strength is a direct measure of the amount of C02 absorbed by the baryta .
The technique is tedious , and the contamination with the C02 of the atmosphere interferes with its accuracy .
There is an extensive field of problems in vegetable physiology , the solution of which involves the determination of small amounts of C02 , evolved or absorbed in numerous consecutive short periods , or the accurate comparison of such amounts for small parts of plants placed simultaneously under regulated and contrasted conditions .
For the successful prosecution of such enquiries it is necessary that the manipulation involved by the method shall be of the simplest nature , and the time occupied in the determinations the shortest possible .
As no method at present in use is sufficient for these requirements , the author has devoted much time to the perfection of one which shall be specially applicable to such questions .
The result is an elaborate but compact apparatus , in which carbon dioxide can be both absorbed and estimated , and a current of air can be produced , either free from C02 or containing any desired amount of this gas , all without much expenditure of time or trouble , and each process is capable of being carried on continually for any desired time .
This conjunction of continuous generation of carbon dioxide with continuous estimation allows problems of assimilation to be attacked equally with those of respiration .
Of the Method .
In this apparatus the estimation of carbon dioxide is performed volumetrically , b ) passing the current of air containing it through a known volume of standard baryta solution , and afterwards titrating with hydrochloric acid , phenol-phthalein being used as indicator .
The procedure is , however , so elaborated that by great complications of apparatus great simplification of technique is obtained .
The whole manipulation consists in the turning of taps .
The method of estimation is so delicate that ASSIMILATION AND RESPIRATION .
with active organs single experiments may be of but a small , fraction of an hour 's duration , and may be taken continuously for many hours , while the titration at the end of each is made immediately and occupies only a few minutes .
As the raison d'etre of this apparatus is .
to be found in the perfection of details and their adaptation so that all the various processes can be performed with the minimum of error , time , and labour , it will be necessary to describe it fully throughout .
The fundamental point at which it departs from the ordinary absorption of respiratory C02 by baryta in a Pettenkofer 's tube , lies in the fact that the titration after absorption is performed in the closed absorbing chamber without bringing the solution into contact with air .
Only a small quantity of baryta solution is used in each experiment , and the whole of it is titrated afterwards .
This does away with the errors introduced into the usual method by clearing out the tubes , and measuring off a volume of the solution for titration .
Again , the burettes containing the standard acid and baryta solutions are both in air-tight direct connection with the absorption chamber ; in this way very delicate end reactions can be obtained , as the addition of both solutions can be continued till a satisfactory final colour is obtained , and this is so secured from the action of atmospheric C02 that it may remain in the chamber for many hours without change .
Another point of great practical importance in saving time is that the baryta chambers in which the titration is performed require no regular cleaning out .
As soon as the titration is complete the liquid within them is of course neutral .
It is then quickly let out ( see below ) and the chamber is immediately ready for a fresh quantity of baryta , the traces of neutral liquid left behind being negligible .
The botanical advantages of the apparatus are , that the necessary parts being in duplicate two different parts of a plant , such as the two surfaces of a leaf for instance , can be examined simultaneously , either as to their respiration or assimilation ; further , two practically separate experiments , or even one on respiration and one on assimilation , can be carried on at the same time .
The organs examined are always under atmospheric pressure , and in a continually renewed current of air .
The whole apparatus is secured to a slightly raised wooden stand , fig. 1 , so that it can be carried safely about entire .
Pigs .
1\#151 ; 5 are diagrammatic representations of the various parts , which may be considered as grouped into two ranks , one in front , fig. 1 , and the other behind , figs. 2 , 4 , and 5 .
The aspirators , which are not fixed to the stand , are shown in fig. 3 .
In the centre of the apparatus ( fig. 1 ) is a large retort stand , bearing on either side a pair of burettes which open below into two cylindrical chambers in which the absorption of the C02 takes place ; each of these ends below in a stop-cock and a tube which passes through the stand , and has a free end over a dish into which the " waste solutions are passed .
At the back of the stand , fig. 2 , are two large bottles containing the standard solutions .
To the left , in front , is a square vertical board fastened to a second smaller stand , and arranged to support a complexus of tubes and Fig. 1 .
to aspirator centimetres to Potash Tp ASSIMILATION AND RESPIRATION .
stop-cocks which are essential for the manipulation of the various connections .
This will be known as the " switchboard .
" In the centre behind , fig. 2 , may be seen a pair of Woulff 's bottles and a connecting bulb tube , all containing strong caustic potash , through which a current of air can be forced by finger bellows , Q , the motive power of the apparatus .
To the right behind , fig. 4 , is a sort of " scrubbing tower , " in which a continual stream of strong potash flows from the bottle above to the bottle below over glass beads , while through it air can be drawn and freed from C02 to be supplied to the plant under investigation .
To the left and behind , fig. 5 , is the C02 generator .
There are to be seen further two small bottles in the centre in front , fig. 1 , which will be called the " resistance bottles .
" The interaction of these parts is briefly as follows :\#151 ; By an aspirator , fig. 3 , a current of air is produced which passes from the outer air in order through the potash tower to the receiver in which the plant is placed , then through some of the tubes on the switchboard to one or other of the cylindrical baryta absorption chambers , the baryta solution in which absorbs the C02 taken up from the plant , and thence to the aspirator .
In working on assimilation the air passes through the C02 generator and not the potash tower .
We may describe then\#151 ; ( 1 ) the absorption chambers ; ( 2 ) the burettes and standard solution arrangements ; ( 3 ) the compressed air mechanism ; ( 4 ) the aspirators ; ( 5 ) the switchboard ; ( 6 ) the potash tower ; ( 7 ) the C02 generator ; ( 8 ) the resistance bottles ; and lastly ( 9 ) the plant receivers .
Finally , the method of using all the parts together must be explained , with other points in the manipulation .
All the taps and clips are numbered in one series , and are only represented diagrammatically in most of the figures .
I. The Absorption Chambers ( fig. 1 ) .
These consist of two cylindrical stoppered funnels about 1 inch in diameter , K* and K2 .
Each is closed above by a caoutchouc stopper through which pass five tubes .
One of these ( X ) comes from the switchboard and ends near the bottom of the chamber ln a bell-shaped mouth .
Through this the air current passes into the chamber and bubbles up through the baryta solution contained in it .
Through another ( Y ) the mdcccxcv.\#151 ; b. 3 R air current passes out through one or other of the arms of the diamond-shaped centre piece to one of the two aspirators , A and B. The other three tubes end just within the top of the chamber .
They communicate above , through india-rubber tubes fitted with clips , with the burettes containing standard acid , A , baryta , B , and the reservoir of the indicator solution , C. Both chambers are counterparts of one another .
They terminate below in stop-cocks carefully ground in , the tube beyond which has a side arm communicating through H with the compressed air supply , I , fig. 1 , H , fig. 2 , and a straight continuation through the stand , furnished with a clip by means of which the liquid in the baryta chamber can , after titration , be let out into the dish , Q. The air inlet tube should , as will be explained later , be made of tubing of narrow bore* ( 1 millitn .
) ; but from such a narrow ending bubbles do not break regularly , which leads to imperfect absorption .
It was found , however , that the dilated ending entirely did away with this difficulty .
II .
The Burettes and Standard Solutions ( figs. 1 and 2 .
) The burettes are of 25 cub. centims. capacity , rather narrow , and graduated into Yo cuk .
centims. Their connection with the absorption chambers has been mentioned .
They are replenished through side tubes , S , U , which communicate with the reserve bottles of standard solution , B , T , fig. 2 .
The two centrally placed burettes contain the baryta solution , and the two outer ones the HC1 .
The HC1 burettes end above in a fine open tube , bent to exclude dust .
The air admitted to the baryta burettes passes through a tube containing soda lime to prevent the entrance of C02 ( E , fig. 1 ) .
The burettes are supported vertically in pieces of cork cut to receive them , so that their front graduated surfaces are at no place obstructed .
The central tube , C , contains an alcoholic solution of phenol-phthalein .
In fig. 2 are shown the bottles of standard solution , each of 2 litres capacity , lb the baryta solution , and T , the acid ; the long tube , S , U , within each communicates through three-way stopcocks , 1 and 2 , with the burettes .
The short tubes just piercing the cork unite and pass to the air pressure arrangement , L , M , N , by which the standard solutions are forced up into the burettes .
The reason for forcing the standard solutions up into the burettes by a pressure of air rather than allowing them to descend from bottles placed high up , which is the usual method , is as follows :\#151 ; Whenever the burettes are re-filled , the rising liquid forms a very irregular meniscus , of which trustworthy readings cannot be taken .
T ' form a satisfactory meniscus the liquid must be allowed to descend again a little down the wetted surface .
In the usual arrangement this is easily done by letting a little of the solution out at the lower end of the burette .
This little would in this apparatus pass into the absorption chamber , and have to be neutralized with HC1 before another absorption could be commenced .
This waste of time and laboui is * By mistake , the narrow bore is represented as a single heavy black line throughout the figure .
ASSIMILATION AND RESPIRATION .
obviated by the use of the air pressure .
When it is desired to lower the levels of the menisci in the burettes , the pressure of air is reduced , say by opening clips 16 and 18 connecting with the external air , and then on just opening the stop-cocks 1 and 2 a little solution will run back into the stock bottle and a good meniscus at any desired point be obtained .
Fig. 2 .
When the stock of standard solutions in the bottles is exhausted , they are refilled through tubes , passing through their corks , which are not represented in the figure .
III .
The Compressed Air Supply ( fig. 2 ) .
Air compressed by the finger bellows Q ( fig. 2 ) , and freed from C03 by passing through two Woulff 's bottles of strong KHO and the connecting tube M , is used for three purposes , ( 1 ) to stir up and mix the liquid in the baryta chamber during titration ; ( 2 ) , to force this liquid out after titration ; and ( 3 ) , to raise up the standard solutions into the burettes , which last process has been already explained .
The finger bellows are compressed several times , and a stream of bubbles , moderated by the capillary tube G to render the absorption more complete , enters the first 3 It 2 bottle L. The connecting tube M has 10 bulbs full of potash in the course of its length , through all of which each bubble of air must pass , as well as through the second bottle N. All these contain 1 in 2 caustic potash , and if the finger bellows be worked as rapidly as the capillary G will allow , this absorption is sufficient to remove all apparent traces of C02 from the air stream .
The air thus forced in accumulates under pressure in the upper parts of the bottles N , R , and T , ready to fulfil any of its functions .
The tube O is open above , and acts as a gauge by which it can be seen if the pressure be suited to the required use .
It is important that alj traces of C02 should be removed from this air stream , since not only is it used as a stirrer during titration , but it is stored in the bottle containing the standard baryta solution R , the continued clearness of the surface of which liquid shows that the desired end is attained .
In course of time much of the potash in the bulbs of the tube M gets carried over by the air stream into N. This can then be returned by working the bellows till the gauge shows a very high pressure , and then opening the stopcock P , when the potash is driven back from N into L , and the tube M completely refilled .
For the first and second uses the air pressure is communicated along the branch H , fig. 2 , to I , fig. 1 , and so either to the switchboard through 23 or along an arm H , fig. 1 , connecting with the outlet tubes of the baryta chambers , for stirring purposes .
These will be considered further on .
IY .
The Aspirators ( fig. 3 ) .
There are two of these , and they are so constructed that the flow can be easily regulated to any required rate , and that it shall continue constaut at this rate without attention .
Each consists of a large wide shallow bottle containing about 10 litres , and closed with a well-fitting cork , through which pass four glass tubes for various purposes .
The water flows out in drops through a syphon tube W\#151 ; Y. This tube V is held in a special clamp , by which its level can be finely adjusted , and the rate of outflow so regulated .
The air current is drawn into the aspirator bottle through a tube X , which opens under the water about three-quarters of the way down the bottle .
Consequently the aspirator works on the principle of Mariotte 's bottle , according to which the water flows out at a constant rate so long as the level of the water in the bottle ( which must be closed at its mouth ) is above the opening of the tube in through which the air is drawn .
The rate of outflow is only due to the difference of water-level between the mouth of the inlet tube and the mouth of the outflow tube , i.e.y the distance between the dotted lines in the figure .
Of the other two tubes that pass through the cork , the central one with the wide stoppered upper end is used for refilling the bottle , while the fourth , Z , is quite short , and gives exit to the air when the bottle is being filled .
The rates of flow that are suitable for the apparatus are very slow , only 40 to 100 cub. centims. per hour , which means about 12 to 30 drops a minute escaping ASSIMILATION AND RESPIRATION .
from the outflow tube of the aspirator .
The difference of level required to produce so small a flow is only a few millims. , unless some special resistance to the flow is introduced , and without this the simple repeated formation of the bubbles at the inlet tube affects the rate and renders it inconstant .
After numerous experiments I have found that drawing out the end of the outflow tube W , which is within the bottle , to a long and not too fine horizontal tube , succeeds excellently as a resistance .
The column of water required to produce the desired outflow is now much longer , and the rate can be regulated with the greatest exactness by slightly raising or lowering the outlet tube , the drops being meanwhile timed with a stop-watch .
The action of the special fine adjustment for this is almost obvious from the sketch ( fig. 3 ) .
The outer piece is held in a clamp on a retort stand , by which the coarse adjustment is performed .
The middle piece screws up and down in this , and so raises or lowers the outflow tube , which is firmly secured in the uppermost piece ( coloured black ) which fits loosely into the middle piece , and so is not carried round by its rotation when screwed up or down .
The air inlet tubes of the two aspirators connect with the tubes so marked in fig. 1 .
Fig. 3 .
Though the water flows out constantly from the bottle whatever the level of water inside , it must just be mentioned that the air enters at a slightly varying pressure .
The first 100 cub. centims. of water flowing from the full bottle sucks in a volume of air which measures 100 cub. centims. at the pressure of the atmosphere minus the whole height of the water column above the dotted line , but the last 100 cub. centims. of water ( at level of the line ) introduces a volume which is 100 cub. centims. at practically atmospheric pressure .
At the quickest rates the level of the water only falls 5 centims. in 24 hours , so that only the negligible difference of 0'5 per cent , can be produced in this time between the volume of water running out and the volume of air drawn in .
During shorter experiments , it suffices therefore to measure the outflowing water .
Quick variations of temperature have a prejudicial influence on the steadiness of the outflow .
These may be prevented by placing the two aspirators in a tank of water or in a large box full of sawdust , through holes in the top of which the various tubes pass .
V. The Switchboard ( fig. 1 ) .
This is an arrangement of glass tubes and three-way stop-cocks by which the interaction of the various parts is effected .
The various connections can be followed in fig. 1 .
The two tubes of entry F and G come from the two chambers containing the material under investigation , and are both symmetrically disposed .
Thus , by turning stop-cock 21 , the current from G may be drawn either through Xx and the baryta chamber Kx , or through the resistance bottle Pl5 the significance of which will be mentioned later .
In either case the current afterwards passes through the tube marked to aspirator B : the tube F may connect similarly with either K2 or Pg , and so on to aspirator A. Through the stop-cock 20 , these two systems can be put into communication , and so a current from one receiver may be either divided between the two absorption chambers , or which is more important , a perfectly continuous absorption may be taken of the current by passing it through one absorption chamber for a given time , and then while this result is being estimated , switching it by taps 20 and 22 through the other chamber , and so on alternately .
Only one aspirator , B , is needed for this purpose , and the currents from the baryta chambers pass to it through clips 11 and 14 or 12 and 14 alternately .
The tube I from the switchboard is connected with the air pressure , and by means of tap 23 a stream of air under pressure may be forced through either Xx or X3 into the baryta chambers .
By this means if the lower stop cock of a chamber be opened and those about Y be closed , the solution can be forced out , after titration , into the dish Q and replaced by air free from C02 .
VI .
The Potash Tower ( fig. 4 ) .
The air enters at the upper side-tube A , passes down the body , which is filled with large hollow glass beads and out through the side-tube B. This connects with a tube L ( fig. l ) , passing through the lowTer corks that support the burettes and away towards the left to the plant receiver .
Over the glass beads in the tower a continuous slow stream of strong ( 1 in 2 ) caustic potash flows .
This passes out of the bottle C through a piece of bent capillary tubing which is of such bore as to reduce the outflow to a few drops per minute .
The tube begins in a hood which prevents dust particles settling in the lumen .
The glass beads are of such a largeness that no drops of liquid are retain\#174 ; by capillarity to block the interspaces ; the potash gradually collects in the lower bottle ( D ) which fills in about thirty hours .
When full , the stop-cock above it is ASSIMILATION AND RESPIRATION .
closed and a finger-bellows connected with the short tube F , by which means the potash can be driven up the connecting tube E to the upper bottle , whence it is ready to flow down again .
The special point in this method of removing the C02 from the air is the avoidance of any negative pressure within the plant receivers .
As it is , the air stream filters through without encountering any resistance , and there is no tendency to suck gases out of the interior of plants experimented on , or to form leaks .
Fig. 4 .
VII .
The Constant C0.3 Generator ( fig. 5 ) .
This consists of an arrangement mechanically very similar to the potash tower but just the reverse in its function .
The body of it is a tube filled with fairly large pieces of broken marble ( A , fig. 5 ) .
Through a capillary tube leading from a constant pressure bottle D , dilute hydrochloric acid drops on to the marble and liberates C02 , which is carried away in the aspirated air stream which is drawn in at the open upper ond of the tube and passes through B to the receivers .
The HC1 after passing 49G MR. F. FROST BLACKMAN ON VEGETABLE over the marble llows away through C , which is so arranged that the liquid keeps a N N constant level .
Very dilute acids \#151 ; to \#151 ; are alone employed , and by noting the rate at which they drop on to the marble the amount of C02 that should be generated in a given time can be determined .
If the current of air flowing through be kept constant it will take up a constant percentage of C02 in passing through the tube .
The tube A is of considerable length , and the arrangement works very successfully if never much more than 1 per cent. C02 be introduced into the current of air .
The amount that actually is present is determined by passing the current for a certain time through one of the absorption chambers and then estimating the baryta neutralized .
Fig. 5 .
VIII .
The Resistance Bottles ( lig .
1 ) .
These are two bottles , P2 and P2 , through which the air stream bubbles wlier^ not passing through the absorption chambers .
By the centre tubes the amount o liquid in them can be once for all adjusted and the amount of resistance ofleied to t ie passage of the air stream thus controlled ; their application is given below .
IX .
The Plant Receivers .
r 1 These are of various shapes , but all formed as far as possible on one cai 11 principle , that of making the volume as small as possible consistent with the we ASSIMILATION AND RESPIRATION .
being of the part experimented on .
Thus , for entire leaves , chambers are made of two plates of glass of somewhat larger outline than the leaves , and sealed with sealing wax at just sufficient distance from one another round three sides ; the leaf and inlet and outlet tubes are introduced through the fourth side and cemented in with wax .
t t # * the petiole projecting out into water .
The capsules employed in working on the two surfaces of leaves are described in detail in a subsequent paper .
The smaller the volume of the receivers and capsules employed , the sooner do changes in the C03 output or intake by the material make an appreciable effect on the composition of the outgoing gas stream , and the sooner do they become maximal , so that smallness becomes of great importance , and for this same reason all the glass and india-rubber tubing intervening between the receivers and the baryta chambers is of small ( 1 miliim .
) bore .
In fig. 1 there is shown diagrammatically a pair of receivers adapted to the opposite surfaces of a leaf It for a comparison of the amount of C02 given off from the surfaces .
Having now described all the parts of the apparatus , something must be said on the various methods of working them together .
The aspirators are filled with distilled water containing a little mercuric chloride to prevent fungoid growths .
As this gradually drops out it is collected in a flask and measured at the end of each experiment .
When the aspirator is nearly emptied to the level of the air inlet tube , this water is returned to the aspirator through Y ( fig. 3 ) , after closing clip 24 or 25 ( fig. 1 ) and opening Z. Afterwards Y is closed and gentle suction applied to the side-tube at Z , till on clip 24 or 25 being opened bubbles are drawn through the inlet tube X. Z is now closed , and the aspirator is working away as before .
The refilling has at the most to be done once in three days and occupies only a minute or two .
When it is desired to absorb the C02 of the air current coming from the plant receiver , the current is led through one of the baryta chambers at a rate not exceeding 4 to 6 bubbles a minute .
Aspirator B can be put in connection with chamber Kj through clips 14 and 11 , or with chamber K2 through clips 14 and 12 ; similarly aspirator A with Kx through 9 , or with K2 through 10 .
Either aspirator can thus be employed on either chamber .
This allows a titration to be performed in the one chamber without interfering with the current through the other one .
While a titration is being made in a given chamber the current is led through the corresponding resistance bottle .
Bottle Px connects with aspirator B and with the inlet tube G of the switchboard : bottle P2 with A and the inlet tube F. If a simple connecting tube were used instead of these bottles then , as soon as the current had been switched out of the baryta chamber , it would suddenly go faster , lacking the resistance of the column of liquid in that chamber .
When switched back through the chamber it would stop for some time till the aspirator had mdcccxcv.\#151 ; b. .
3 s got up sufficient negative pressure to overcome this resistance , and even then it would not go as fast as in the interval between the absorptions .
This fatal irregularity the bottles overcome by providing a resistance to the passage of the current which is exactly equal to that in the oaryta chamber .
If this be accomplished , then the current continues to flow with perfect regularity whether it be passing through the absorption chamber or the resistance bottle .
In later experiments paraffin oil is employed in the bottles so that the resistance may not alter by evaporation .
The equality of resistance is adjusted as follows : P2 and Pj are both for the time connected to one aspirator ( B ) by opening the clips 24 , 13 , 14 , 12 , 10 , and directing 21 and 22 on the switchboard , so as to let both the air currents pass to the bottles .
Bubbles will , of course , only pass through the bottle which happens to offer the less resistance .
The amounts of liquid must then be altered through clips 26 or 27 until both columns are exactly equal and bubbles pass equally through both .
Afterwards , the absorption chamber Kj is similarly equalised with Pl5 and K2 with P2 .
The amount of liquid required to be introduced into each chamber from its burette to produce this equality of resistance is noted , and becomes the amount of baryta to be afterwards constantly introduced at the beginning of each experiment .
For assimilation experiments with the C02 generator the constancy of flow obtained by this means is very essential .
If , however , slightly too much or too little liquid be introduced into a chamber , and it be consequently noticed that the aspirators drop slightly slower or faster than when the current was passing through the resistance bottles , this can be remedied by immediately lowering or raising the level of the dropping tube of the aspirator by the necessary compensating amount .
In performing the titrations , beyond the addition of the required solutions it is necessary that the whole liquid be stirred up , and that , without introducing any atmospheric C02 .
A stream of air bubbles supplied both under pressure and freed from C02 by the " air pressure " apparatus Q , L , N ( fig. 2 ) , is made to serve this end .
Suppose that the moment is arriving for terminating the absorption in both chambers and titrating the result .
The currents would now be passing ( fig. 1 ) from the plant through F , tap 22 , tube X2 , chamber K3 , tube Y2 , clips 12 , 14 , and 24 ( 15 opening into the air at O being of course closed ) , to aspirator B , and from the plant through G , 21 , X1 , K1 , Y1 , clips 9 and 25 to aspirator A , At the given moment the taps 21 and 22 are turned so that they lead from the plant only into M and N ; the currents shift immediately and pass only through the respective resistance bottles .
Clip 13 is not essential , and has been left in by an oversight .
Clips 9 and 14 are now shut , and 11 and 15 opened , so that the chambers both communicate with the outer air at O and the titration is commenced .
Tap 23 from I , the air pressure supply , can be then turned ( it must have , for other reasons , only an L-shaped bore ) so that the air passes through either Xj into Kl5 or through X2 into K2 at will , and so out into the air through Y and O. If stirred only in this way a small amount of liquid in the narrow lower part of the chambers would never mix ASSIMILATION AND RESPIRATION .
with the rest .
The proper arrangement for stirring is by the connection with the air pressure through H. Open clips 16 and 17 , having closed 18 and 19 , and then by partly opening the stopcock at the base of the absorption chamber a stream of bubbles forces its way right through the liquid and completely mixes it .
This is kept up during titration till the end colour is obtained .
This stirring stream of air contains so little C02 that it may be bubbled fast through the faintest pink tint in the absorption chamber for ten minutes without decolorising it .
The pressure gauge O ( fig. 2 ) affords valuable indication that the air pressure is sufficient to force its way through the liquid , and so avoids the risk of the liquid passing down through the stop-cock instead of the air passing up .
When the titration is finished clips 16 and 17 are closed again , so also 11 and 12 .
Instead clips 18 and 19 are now opened as well as the two stop-cocks , and on admitting air under pressure through 23 and and X2 , the neutral liquid in the absorption chamber streams out through the stop-cocks into the dish Q placed to receive it .
The levels of the burettes are now read off ; the number of cub. centims. of hydrochloric acid that has been needed to neutralize is multiplied by the factor that relates it to the baryta solution , for the two are never the same strength , and the result subtracted from the volume of baryta solution that has been used .
The difference gives the volume of baryta that has been neutralized , other than by the hydrochloric acid , that is to say , by the C02 absorbed from the current drawn through the chamber .
In order to prepare for a fresh absorption experiment , a considerable pressure is got up in the air pressure system by working Q , and stop-cocks 1 and 2 are opened .
The compressed air in the bottles of standard solutions is thus able to force the respective liquids up the burettes .
When the solution is nearly to the top in each , the stop-cocks are shut .
Then the air pressure is lowered by opening for a moment clips 17 and 19 , which allows an escape of the compressed air .
On again opening stop-cocks 1 and 2 , the solutions tend to run back to the bottles from the burettes .
When the zero mark is reached in each , the stop-cock is finally closed .
After this the correct amount of baryta solution is introduced into each absorption chamber by opening the clip of the burette , and also clips 11 , 12 , 15 , to allow the displaced air to leave the chambers .
These are all closed again , and just before it is desired to start another double absorption experiment , clips 12 , 14 , and 9 are opened .
At the given moment for starting , there remains then nothing to do but to return the three-ways taps 22 and 21 to their old positions , and the pressure bottles are cut off* and the current passes once more , still at the same rate , through the baryta in the absorption chambers .
The whole of this double titration emptying and refilling can be accomplished comfortably in ten to twelve minutes .
At intervals it may be desirable to clean from the chamber the barium carbonate deposited on the walls .
This is accomplished without taking the chamber to pieces , by drawing sufficiently strong hydrochloric acid into it through the stop-cock at the bottom , 3 s 2 by gentle suction applied at O through 15 and 11 , or 12 .
When all the barium carbonate is dissolved , the acid is run out below , and the chamber washed and neutralized , when it is ready for fresh work .
We have now to consider the precautions adopted to render the titrations as delicate as possible .
Hydrochloric acid is chosen in preference to oxalic acid on account of its greater stability .
A dilute alcoholic solution of phenol-phthalein seems to be a very satisfactory indicator .
The most delicate shade of pink that can be perceived against a white background ( a piece of cotton wool is the best ) is taken as the ideal end colour , but unless the amount of C02 to be estimated is very minute , a slightly wider range of colour may be considered sufficient .
The solutions that I have employed as yet are approximately half decinormal ( N/ 23 ) .
This strength of baryta solution unites with just half its volume of C02 .
The burettes are graduated in iT ) cub. centims. , and are read by estimation to yJ\lt ; j of a cub. centim. After practice , this is not difficult to do without an appreciable error .
To facilitate the reading , I use a very convenient little instrument for avoiding errors of parallax .
It consists of a carefully cut , right-angled triangle sheet of cork , along one side of which an opaque glass tube , 9 centims. long , is attached .
One end of the tube is just flush with the right angle of the cork , and this end is placed against the burette .
A piece of thin paper , with the lower half blackened , is placed behind the meniscus to darken its lower surface , and the level is read by looking through the tube of the instrument .
The image is very clear , and the longer and narrower the tube , the less the possible error in reading .
The internal diameter of my tube is just over yjy cub. centim. on the burette scale , and after a very little practice the use becomes quite easy .
For such accuracy of reading to be of any avail , the burettes must be quite clean , so that the solutions run down perfectly .
Further , in titrating , such amounts of the solutions are always introduced , that by rapid bubbling hanging drops may be just swept off the tips of the burette tubes .
In this way half a drop or less can be added to give a final end colour .
I now use this method in preference to having the solutions of unequal strengths , which also enables one to practically add small fractions of a drop .
The precautions to ensure a good meniscus with the high level reading , which is always taken at one constant point , have been given on p. 578 .
The levels of the menisci do not change appreciably by evaporation even after several days .
After a little time all these precautions are easily observed , and , then , when the errors ot working , which will be dealt with later , do not come in , the error of estimation rarely exceeds cub. centim. of solution ( tJq cub. centim. C02 ) .
Such is the case when successive titrations to compare the relative strengths of the solutions aie made ; indeed , long series of standardizing titrations may be made with a difference not greater than y^-g cub. centim. , which is equivalent to less than OT per cent. In actual experiments slight additional errors come into play .
Thus , if a current of air , freed by the potash tower as far as convenient from C02 , be drawn through the baryta solution for more than twelve hours , and the solution be then titrated , ASSIMILATION AND RESPIRATION .
a small apparent amount of C03 is always obtained .
This is usually 0*02 to 0*04 cub. centim. of baryta solution for an all-night experiment in one chamber , and probably due to an actual 0*01 cub. centim. \#151 ; 0*02 cub. centim. of C03 , leaking in , or escaping absorption by the KHO in this long time .
I have not thought it worth while , at present , to attempt to eliminate this error of working , which is much less than the amount on which any biological conclusion would be based .
If , from absorption of C03 , much barium carbonate is present in the solution when the titration is being made , it is not sufficient to be satisfied with the first end reaction that is arrived at .
If left , in less than a minute the colour fades away , and more alkali must be added .
The real end reaction colour does not change for very many hours when kept closed up .
That the absorption of the C03 in the air current is sufficiently well performed by the rather shallow layer of baryta solution employed , is shown in the following experiment , in which a stream of air charged with C03 by the C03 generator was aspirated first through one chamber and then back to the switchboard by a special tube and through the second chamber .
The C03 generator added to the passing air stream about 0*2 per cent. C03 , and this was drawn for fourteen hours through the two chambers .
On titration it was found that 4*08 cub. centims. of baryta had been neutralized in the first chamber , and only 0*06 in the second .
This means that at most only lj per cent , of the C03 had escaped absorption in the first chamber .
Actual experiments are never continued so long that so much as 4 cub. centims. of baryta solution are neutralized , so that in ordinary work about 1 per cent , may escape absorption .
Since , as a rule , the total baryta neutralized by C03 in one experiment does not exceed 1 cub. centim. , this error of 1 per cent , becomes *01 cub. centim. , which is not greater than the allowed error of estimation , so that but little would be gained by more complete absorption .
To show how far the two chambers furnish comparable simultaneous results , different amounts of ordinary air were aspirated through the two chambers during the same night .
In this time one aspirator ran 2040 cub. centims. , and the chamber in connection with it showed 0*75 cub. centim. of C03 absorbed , which equals 0*037 per cent. C03 in the air .
The other aspirator ran 1300 cub. centims. , and the chamber connected with it showed 0*51 cub. centim. of C03 or 0*039 per cent. In another case , 1730 cub. centims. were drawn through one chamber and 1700 through the other .
Both gave 0*034 per cent , of C03 .
Experiments were also made to determine the accuracy of the C03 generator .
Approximately \#151 ; HC1 was supplied to it and a current of air drawn through it in the usual way .
The acid which flowed out of the lower end of the apparatus was collected in a beaker and its strength compared with that of the acid supplied at the top .
Of the fresh acid 25 cub. centims. neutralized 12*20 of a baryta solution , while 125 cub. centims. of the acid that had run over the marble neutralized 1 cub. centim. of this same baryta , i.e. , 25 cub. centims. would neutralize 0'2 cub. centim. , so that , including the carbonic acid that the liquid must take up on its passage , less than 17 per cent , of it escapes undecomposed .
The amount of the acid supplied will then furnish a very fair guide to the amount of C02 that will be liberated .
When the external conditions of temperature , \amp ; c. , are favourable , a long series of concordant results may be obtained from the CCX* generator .
Thus in one case for five consecutive determinations of the amount of C02 generated in periods of 15 minutes by this apparatus , the numbers 0'37 cub. centim. , 0*37 cub. centim. , 0'37 cub. centim. , 0*37 cub. centim. , 0'38 cub. centim. C02 , were obtained .
Results like these necessitate a constancy of external temperature which it is very difficult to obtain .
As presently arranged the rate of dropping of the acid in the CO. , generator varies with the temperature , but I have some expedients , not yet put into practice , by which I feel sure of overcoming this difficulty .
Numerous experiments , showing the capacity of this apparatus for delicate work on both respiration and assimilation , will be given in the succeeding paper " On the Paths of Gaseous Exchange in Leaves .
"

