235 Observations on the Brains of Men and Animals infected with Various Forms of Trypanosomes .
Preliminary .
By F. W. Mott , M.D. , F.R.S. ( Received March 14 , \#151 ; Read March 16 , 1905 .
) The material upon which these observations are based has been forwarded to me from Uganda , with the exception of the brain of a rabbit kindly given to me by Dr. Plimmer .
By the desire of the Committee on Tropical Diseases of this Society , Colonel Bruce has given instructions to his assistants , and they have forwarded to me from Entebbe , material from cases of Sleeping Sickness , 24 in all ; also portions of the brains of eight monkeys experimentally infected , two oxen , and one donkey .
The tissues have been preserved in Formol-Muller 's solution , or they have been sent already embedded in paraffin after having been hardened a short time in formalin .
Sections were cut of either 5 or 10 / x in thickness ; they were stained by Romanowsky , Leishman , Nissl polychrome , or Weigert-Gram methods , thus enabling observations to be made regarding:\#151 ; ( a ) The existence of trypanosomes or Leishman bodies .
( b ) Changes in the ganglion cells and neuroglia cells .
( c ) Changes in the blood , the endothelial cells of the vessels , and the peri-vascular spaces , and soft membranes .
( d ) The existence of micro-organisms .
( e ) The existence of plasma cells , and other cells indicative of chronic inflammatory degenerative changes .
It may be mentioned that in a number of instances sections of the lymphatic glands , some of which were removed during life and others mortem , were examined by the same methods .
The principal pathological conditions observed were either drawn or photographed .
In every case of Sleeping Sickness , in which there were symptoms during life , the characteristic change ( which I described in two cases reported by Sir Patrick Manson ) of a chronic meningo-encephalitis was found .
In every chronic case I have found also plasma cells of Marscholko , which by some observers were considered to be pathognomonic of another chronic meningoencephalitis , general paralysis of the insane .
b 2 236 Dr. F. W. Mott .
Brains of Men and Animals [ Mar. 14^ Every stage of the development of these plasma cells from lymphocytes can be observed in the brain tissues , also in the chronically inflamed lymphatic glands .
Likewise , in chronic cases , morular cells , indicative of chronic inflammation , can be seen in most cases .
Erom the clinical notes furnished in these cases , it is apparent that there is a correlation between the severity of the symptoms , the chronicity of the disease and the degree and intensity of the chronic inflammatory process , as evidenced by the abundance of lymphocytes in the peri-vascular spaces and in the subarachnoid space , also by the number of plasma cells and morular cells .
With regard to the ganglion cells , the very chronic cases show a very marked degeneration of the ganglion cells of the central nervous system , particularly of the medulla oblongata and the cortex\#151 ; proportional to the-degree of affection of the vessels\#151 ; many of the smaller of which are completely occluded , partly by the accumulation of lymphocytes , partly by the-proliferation of the nuclei of the endothelial cells .
Many of the capillaries are completely occluded by this process , and the result is not merely a chromatolysis of the ganglion cells , but a coagulation necrosis and destruction .
Where there is this advanced degeneration , there is a marked proliferation of the glia cells , and a large number of spider cells can be seen ; in fact , the appearances , as the accompanying pictures show , closely resemble , in many respects , the chronic inflammatory changes met with in general paralysis .
Except that , whereas in the latter disease , the vascular change is in great measure secondary to the degenerative change of the ganglion cells ; in Sleeping Sickness the chronic inflammatory process is universal throughout the central nervous system , and the ganglion cells are destroyed , secondarily to the occlusion of vessels .
The glia cell proliferation is not nearly so pronounced in Sleeping .
Sickness , because there is so much less wasting of the brain substance .
In one case , so marked was the peri-vascular infiltration in the grey matter of the cortex , that after hardening in Muller 's solution the vessels could be seen with the naked eye as glistening pearly lines and points .
In the blood contained in the vessels of a few of the chronic cases without micro-organismal infection , a solitary trypanosome or a portion of a trypanosome could very occasionally be seen , but it is a remarkable fact how very seldom , in the immense number of sections examined , I have been able to find evidence of trypanosome infection by examination of the blood contained in the vessels ; I have , therefore , concluded that these organisms cannot be abundant , and that if they produce this chronic infla.mmfl.tion as all the facts in the etiology of the disease prove , it may either be that they 1905 .
] infected with Various Forms of Trypanosomes .
237 { 1 ) produce a toxin which acts as the irritant ; ( 2 ) they undergo morphological changes in the blood or cerebro-spinal fluid ; or ( 3 ) that the secondary or terminal infection with which nearly all these cases were affected ( except three ) , with diplococci , diplo-streptococci , or occasionally other organisms such as cocci , Friedlander 's bacillus and bacillus coli , leads to the destruction of the trypanosomes .
It is probable that the defences of the organism against bacterial invasion are lowered by the trypanosome blood infection .
It has been shown that recently a large number of natives have been dying of pneumonia .
The diplococcus is one of the most prevalent organisms found in the body .
Again , negroes , owing to jiggers and other sources of infection by pyogenic organisms have therefore ready to hand a source of secondary or terminal infection .
A very interesting case in this respect was Bara Bisgalli ; this man for a long time had infection with Trypanosoma Ga in the blood ; these organisms were also obtained from his lymphatic glands by Captain Greig .
Sections of the glands removed during life were examined by me , and I found evidence of degenerated trypanosomes , macro-nuclei and micro-nuclei ; also the glands showed marked evidence of chronic inflammatory change ; plasma cells and degenerated cells being abundant .
The gland removed during life was sterile , that is free from micro-organisms , and no diplococci could be discovered in the sections which I examined .
At this time , he showed no signs of Sleeping Sickness ; later he was taken ill , and as I learnt from Captain Greig , he died in 10 days of pneumonia with cerebral symptoms .
Examination of the brain showed a well marked acute pneumococcic meningitis ; in fact , I should not have thought of Sleeping Sickness upon looking at the sections without prejudice , for the leucocytic infiltration was almost .entirely confined to the membranes , consisted almost entirely of polymorpho-nuclears , and it did not extend into the peri-vascular spaces .
Amid and within the leucocytes were immense numbers of diplococci with capsules ; the lymphatic glands , which were previously sterile , now all contained diplococci .
Whether this man would in time have developed the chronic meningo-encephalitis of Sleeping Sickness and its associated progressive phenomena , I am unable to say ; but it is an interesting point in connection with the fact that some authorities look upon the Trypanosoma Gambiense as .a distinct form from that which produces Sleeping Sickness .
The European case , reported by Sir Patrick Manson , of a missionary 's wife who died in England with the lesion of Sleeping Sickness , having suffered for some time with trypanosome fever , and with Trypanosoma Gambiense in the blood , is opposed to the view of a distinct organism .
It is possible , 238 Dr. F. W. Mott .
Brains of Men and Animals [ Mar. 14 .
therefore , that Bara Bisgalli , had he lived longer , would have developed Sleeping Sickness , for in some places a few of the vessels showed slight lymphocyte proliferation in the surrounding lymph spaces ; but even this is not conclusive evidence , for I have found the same in chronic diplo-streptococcic meningitis .
There is another man , Tabula , whose glands , removed intra vitam , I have examined , and which showed exactly the same changes as Bara Bisgalli , and who , I understand , has similar trypanosomes in the blood , and general glandular enlargement , but has not yet developed any signs of Sleeping Sickness .
It will be interesting to see what becomes of him .
It has been shown that the cerebro-spinal fluid in Sleeping Sickness always contains trypanosomes , and likewise the juice of the lymphatic glands by puncture during life .
On examination of sections of the glands in a number of these cases , in which active trypanosomes had been found during life , I observed only rarely a body which I could definitely call a trypanosome , therefore , it is not surprising that I was unable to find , after very careful search of many hundreds of sections , any body which I could definitely recognise as a trypanosome in the meningeal peri-vascular cell infiltration of the central nervous system .
Yet , as the coloured drawings show , not only did one see similar cells and products of chronic inflammatory change in the peri-vascular lymph spaces , but also similar products of degeneration and similar staining chromatin bodies and bits like those seen in the lymphatic glands , which we have reason to believe may be products of degenerated trypanosomes .
Moreover , I have occasionally seen a macro* nucleus with its accompanying micro-nucleus amidst the cells of the perivascular infiltration .
In the lymphocytes themselves , in a chronic case in which I could discover no diplococcal infection by Gram 's method , I have found deep staining bodies , oval or round in shape , but I am unable to affirm what they are .
If the trypanosomes are continually being destroyed , as they seem to be by the cells , it is not surprising that more evidence of their existence is not seen .
It is remarkable in transections of the blood vessels in very chronic cases , to observe how few are the polymorpho-nuclear leucocytes , and how numerous the small and large mono-nuclears , and apparently these get into the peri-vascular spaces .
Examination of tissues of other organs from cases of Sir Patrick Manson 's showed that not only the brain and glands are affected , but serous membranes and organs of the body , by this lymphocyte infiltration around the vessels , although to a much less degree .
1905 .
] infected with Various Forms of Trypanosomes .
Examination of the Trains of jLnir , +4'J Infected with Trypanosomes .
It has been stated that trypanosomes cannot be shown in sections of the brain , and that the hardening fluid may have been the reason why more definite evidence of the trypanosome infection in sleeping sickness has not been observed .
The following observations show that both these hypotheses are probably untenable .
( 1 ) The brain of a rabbit inoculated with Surra , which died three months later , hardened in formol , was kindly given me by Dr. Plimmer , and showed the following appearances in sections .
By any of the staining methods employed , nearly all the blood vessels showed masses of trypanosomes , as the coloured drawings exhibit .
Single trypanosomes could be seen in the capillaries ; in the larger vessels solitary trypanosomes , and whorls of trypanosomes , and plasmoidal masses , which may either be degenerated trypanosomes consisting of a zooglceal mass , in which more deeply stained macro-nuclei and micro-nuclei can be seen , or , as Plimmer and Bradford consider , of amoeboid forms .
But in spite of this extraordinary trypanosome infection , the blood vessels showed little or no inflammatory reaction , The peri-vascular spaces showed no lymphocytes , the ganglion cells showed marked chromolytic changes , otherwise there was nothing noteworthy in the nervous system .
( 2 ) The brains of two oxen infected with Jinga trypanosomes were examined .
The animals died within three months of infection ; the results of the examinations were extremely interesting and will be given in some detail .
Experiment 162.\#151 ; The cortex cerebri , the cerebellum , medulla and spinal cord were examined , and all yielded the same results .
With a magnification of 1200 diameters , the capillaries and vessels were found to contain chromatin bodies , exactly resembling Leishman bodies , except that they were smaller , measuring from 1 to 2 y , much more frequently 1 y , rarely as large as 2 fi .
They were either circular or oval rings or had the appearance of the chromatin particles being situated at the two poles .
Several drawings and photographs are given to illustrate their appearance and their numbers .
Some of the capillaries show immense numbers , and in some transactions of larger vessels , these bodies can be observed lying in a zooglceal mass .
Individual bodies exhibit some diversity in their form , indicating division .
A large number of stained , particles ( which may be micro-nuclei ) can be seen .
The Jinga trypanosome , as the accompanying drawing shows , is comparatively a large organism , as seen in the blood of a monkey , which was inoculated with it .
Its oval macro-nucleus is much larger than these 240 Dr. F. W. Mott , Brains of Men and Animals [ Mar. 14 , chromatin bodies which are seen in the vessels .
If these chromatin bodies , as Leishman would affirm , are the macro-nuclei of trypanosomes , then it i8 difficult to explain why a dozen or more of the chromatin bodies can sometimes be seen lying in a space which would be covered by one trypanosome .
Still the trypanosomes may have degenerated elsewhere , and the macro-nuclei be carried into the capillaries .
In view , however , of the researches of Captain Rogers regarding Leishman bodies being altered phases of trypanosomes , and the contention of Plimmer and Bradford re the existence of amoeboid forms of trypanosomes , it is possible that these chromatin bodies may be some phases in the life of the trypanosome in the blood ; and it may be mentioned in support of this ( although I do not profess to dispute the opinion of biologists who have studied the question ) that after a very careful search of a large number of sections , I have been unable to see a single trypanosome or a degenerated one , which is quite different to what one found in the brain of the rabbit inoculated with Surra .
Experiment 202 .
Ox.\#151 ; -This animal died within three months of infection , the same portions of brain were examined .
It was only after some careful searching that I could find a few small vessels containing these chromatin bodies .
A drawing is given to illustrate these vessels .
It will be observed that there are a far larger number of minute , just visible , stained particles .
Addendum.\#151 ; Since reading this preliminary note , by a new method of staining I have found trypanosomes , and what I believe are Plimmer and Bradford 's amoeboid forms in ox , Experiment 202 .
Clearly , then , at any rate in the brain , the evidence of the existence of trypanosomes in the blood of animals dying of trypanosome disease may vary very considerably .
In view of the fact that blood in which no trypanosomes can be detected microscopically , yet by culture experiments they may be obtained , it may be asked ( although here , again , I do not pose as an authority ) whether these bodies with chromatin particles can develop into trypanosomes .
In the vessels of the brain of the Ox 162 , many leucocytes can be seen which have taken up the chromatin bodies .
It may be mentioned that in these two cases there is no sign of meningo-encephalitis , and there was no diplo-streptococcal infection .
The ganglion cells showed chromolytic changes , and there were many minute capillary haemorrhages , probably due to plugging of the capillaries by the organisms .
Moreover , there were curious cells lying free in the vessels , which , however , I could not assert were not detached endothelial cells with nuclear changes , except that I have not observed such appearances before .
( drawing .
) 1905 .
] infected ivith Various Forms of Trypanosomes .
Donkey inoculated with mule trypanosomes .
In this case the central nervous system yielded no positive results .
Monkeys inoculated with different varieties of trypanosomes ( including four certain cases of Sleeping Sickness ) , of which eight brains have been examined .
The animals lived for varying periods , from a month or two to over one year .
As the results were negative , I shall not give any particulars here .
The most obvious change found was the empty condition of the small blood vessels and chromolytic changes in the nerve cells .
There was no perivascular cell-infiltration and no meningitis .
The tissues of some of them showed diplococci .
In one case of Sleeping Sickness ( Zurura Mya ) , a chronic case in which trypanosomes were found in the cerebro-spinal fluid during life without centrifuging , I was unable to find any perfect trypanosomes in sections of the central nervous system , but I found numbers of bodies which I thought might be altered forms , or fragments of degenerated trypanosomes and chromatin bodies , especially in the chronic inflammatory exudation of the subarachnoid space .
Moreover , small capillaries could be found ruptured in the neighbourhood .
This fact I have observed in other chronic cases , and suggests the possible mode of infection by trypanosomes of the cerebro-spinal fluid in the subarachnoid space .
I have had the opportunity , recently , of examining sections of a case of chronic basal meningitis with diplo-streptococcal infection .
Sections showed in places a very marked peri-vascular infiltration of some of the vessels of the cortex , away from the primary source of infection , resembling , in some respects , some of the less chronic cases of Sleeping Sickness .
I failed , however , to discover , amidst the cell exudution , those small round and oval bodies and fragments which I have found in the meningo-encephalitis of chronic Sleeping Sickness .
But , in a case of basal meningitis occurring in a child , only the membranes about the base of the brain were affected , and no perivascular infiltration was found .
There were numbers of small round and oval bodies , probably products of degenerated cells .
In my opinion , therefore , a series of culture experiments in vitro of different forms of trypanosomes , especially of " Sleeping Sickness " in cerebro-spinal fluid , would be of interest .
This fluid , containing a mere trace of proteid , might lead to degeneration of these organisms , and products and fragments , similar to those found in the membranes , might be observed on microscopical examination of the centrifuged fluid .
If no change in the trypanosomes occurred , infection of the cerebro-spinal fluid by diplo-cocci or diplo-streptococci might be undertaken .
Positive results by this method might help in deciding this difficult 242 Brains of Men and Animals infected Trypanosomes .
S point ; whether the chronic inflammatory exudation is the result of the irritation caused by the trypanosomes or of their toxic products ; and whether any of these small round and oval bodies , seen in great abundance in the chronic inflammatory products , are products of degenerated trypanosomes .
Addendum.\#151 ; A full report of this investigation , with the abstract of the clinical notes of the cases , the photo-micrographs and drawings , will appear in the Reports of the Sleeping Sickness Commission .
By the kind permission of Major Leishman , I have since had the opportunity of examining a portion of the cortex cerebri of a monkey which died quite recently ; this animal was inoculated with the blood of a case of Sleeping Sickness 18 months previously , and unlike any of the eight monkeys ' brains which I have had the opportunity of examining , it shows a well-marked meningo-encephalitis .
This very important fact was referred to by Major Leishman in the discussion that ensued , and a full report of the examination of the bi ; ain will be published by Captain Harvey .
REFERENCES .
11 The Examination of the Tissues of the Case of Sleeping Sickness in a European , " by Geo. C. Low , M.A. , M.B. , and F. W. Mott , M.D. , F.R.S. , 'Brit .
Med. Journal , ' April 30 , 1904 .
" The Leishman-Donovan Body and Tropical Splenomegaly , " by Sir Patrick Manson and Dr. Low , ' B. M. J. , ' January 23 , 1904 .
" Preliminary Note on the Development of Trypanosoma in Cultures of the Cunningham , Leishman-Donovan Bodies of Cachexial Fever and Kala-azar , " by Leonard Rogers , M.1 ) .
, M.R.C.P. Lond. , Capt. I.M.S. , 'Lancet , ' July 23 , 1904 .
The Trypanosoma Brucei , the Organism found in Nagana , or Tsetse Fly Disease , " by J. R. Bradford , F.R.S. , and H. G. Plimmer , F.L.S. , 'Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. 45 , April 20 , 1905 .

