309 XIII .
" Further Remarks on the Organo-metallic Radicals , and Observations more particularly directed to the isolation of Mlercuric , Plumbic , and Stannic Ethyl .
" By GEORGE BOWDLER BUCKTON , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1858 .
Before again entering on the subject of the organo-metals , the author wishes to call attention to the remarks he has previously made* on the difficulties which presented themselves at that time in the preparation of mercuric ethyl .
Secondary decompositions , induced by the nature of the materials employed and the high temperature necessary to the reaction , showed themselves even in the more easily prepared mercuric methyl , and reduced the quantity obtained considerably below that pointed out by theory .
The loss sustained in the similar operation of distilling together cyanide of potassium and iodide of merciirous ethyl , C , H5 Hg2 I , is yet more marked ; and it may be remembered that the portion obtained did no more than suffice for a cursory examination of its most marked characters .
A new mode of operating was therefore desirable , and it was not long before the following considerations presented themselves .
The powerful and well-defined affinities of zinc-ethyl have already furnished a valuable key to the explanation of several chemical problems , and seem to be well suited for experiment in the present case .
Bearing in mind its well-known reactions on water and hydrochloric acid , there appeared to be well-grounded reasons for supposing that interesting decompositions might be effected with various oxides , chlorides , and iodides .
Through the instrumentality of zinc-ethyl the author has succeeded in isolating , in a neat and efficient manner , several of the organometals , and he indulges a hope that they may , when taken as startingpoints of investigation , prove of service in fixing exact formulae to some of those bodies , the composition of which , at present , appear doubtful from their complexity .
Action of Zinc-ethyl on Mlercuric Chloride .
Corrosive sublimate acts with great energy on zinc-ethyl ; so much 310 so , as to render it necessary to cool the apparatus in water , and add the well-dried salt by degrees .
An excess of the latter must be avoided , since chloride of mercurous ethyl would be formed , as was formerly shown to be the case in the methyl series .
After the two bodies have been brought together in their proper proportions , heat is applied , and the radical passes over by distillation as a heavy , colourless , and nearly inodorous liquid ; the slight excess of zinc-ethyl is then decomposed by the addition of water , and just sufficient dilute hydrochloric acid added as will dissolve the precipitated oxide of zinc .
The two transformations may be seen in the equations , C4 H5 Zn+ Hg C1= C4 H5 Hg + Zn Cl , and again , C4 HI Hg+ Hg C1-=C , H , Hg , Cl. The pure radical boils at a temperature between 158 ?
and 160 ?
C. It burns readily , with a luminous and somewhat smoky flame , with disengagement of mercurial vapour .
It is almost wholly insoluble in water .
Alcohol dissolves it rather sparingly , but it mixes freely with ether .
The behaviour of acids towards mercuric ethyl is strictly analogous to that shown by mercuric methyl .
With dilute acid there is but little change , but warm concentrated hydrochloric or sulphuric acid liberates hydride of ethyl in sufficient quantity to permit of its inflammation through a gas jet .
The salts of mercurous ethyl remain in solution .
The specific gravity of a specimen boiling between 158 ?
and 160 ?
C. was found to be 2'444 , and the same sample when submitted to analysis , gave numbers agreeing accurately with the formula C4 H , Jg .
The correctness of this formula was further confirmed by an appeal to the vapour-density .
The first experiment failed , from the circumstance that the vapour decomposes with a slight explosion , when heated a few degrees above 205 ?
C. In this experiment metallic mercury was deposited on the walls of the glass balloon as a grey film , and the other contents consisted of an inflammable gas .
Mercuric methyl appears therefore to be resolved at this temperature into ethyl gas and mercury .
311 Another experiment was more successful , and gave the number 9'97 for the vapour-density .
The equivalent weight of mercuric ethyl is 129 , which , being 129 divided by the former figures , gives 997 = 12*94 .
If the constituents of this radical be condensed into two volumes of vapour , the more accurate number 14'86 should have been obtained .
The theoretical density of mercuric ethyl , thus calculated , is equal 129 to 1486=868* .
This portion of the subject would be incomplete unless a few words were added on the behaviour of zinc-ethyl towards mercurous chloride .
It has been mentioned , that all attempts to reduce iodide of mercurous methyl to the form of a radical containing one equivalent of methyl and two equivalents of mercury have hitherto failed .
Reasoning a priori , we should not expect to find a departure in the present case , neither does such appear .
Mercurous chloride reacts with vigour on zinc-ethyl , but metallic mercury is formed simultaneously with chloride of zinc and mercuric ethyl .
The decompositions of mercurous and mercuric chlorides or iodides , are thus shown : C4 H , Zn Hg2 Cl=C4 H5 Hg+ Zn C+ Hg , and C,4 H Zn+Hg C1=0C , H , Hg H +Zn C1 Having succeeded , by these simple means , in effecting a replacement in zinc-ethyl through the ordinary metallic chlorides , there remained yet one point untouched , viz. the behaviour of various organometallic salts , under similar treatment .
First in order was tried 312 The Action of Zinc-ethyl on Iodide of Mercurous Ethyl .
Carbonic acid , or ordinary coal-gas , was slowly passed through the neck of a retort ; and when the atmospheric air was displaced , about two ounces of zinc-ethyl , nearly free from ether , and wholly so from iodide of ethyl , was introduced .
Iodide of mercurous ethyl was then added , by degrees , through the tubulure , and the whole mixed by agitation .
The zinc-ethyl at first dissolves the iodide , but subsequently a cake of iodide of zinc is formed .
Distillation was then commenced , the heat being raised by degrees until gaseous products appeared .
The distillate , after being well washed , was rectified by the thermometer , and in this manner the radical was obtained in a state of purity .
Iodide of mercurous ethyl may be formed so easily by diffused daylight , and its action is so gentle on zinc-ethyl , that its use offers greater conveniences to the operator than are afforded by any of the substances previously mentioned .
For obvious reasons , a similar choice of materials is recommended for preparing mercuric methyl .
Action of Zinc-ethyl on Chloride of Lead .
The close relations which exist between the three metals , lead , mercury , and silver , in their equivalent weights , salts , and other characters , lead the author to anticipate success in forming their ethyl bases .
The existence of the lead radical might indeed be considered as certain , since various salts of complicated structure have been made known to chemists through the experiments of M. Lwig , on the alloy of lead and sodium , under treatment with iodide of ethyl .
The principal product obtained by him , and the only one apparently analysed , had a grouping similar to a sesquichloride .
The formula ascribed by him to the radical plumbethylium is Pb2 ( ( C4H5)3 .
I have attempted to form the iodide of this radical by exposing sealed tubes , containing granulated lead and iodide of ethyl , to the sun 's rays , but without success .
No better result was obtained by substituting bromide of ethyl for the iodide , and no change could be induced even when these tubes were heated strongly with highpressure steam .
M. Lowig 's method was not resorted to , from the supposition that the action of zinc-ethyl on a mixture would only give rise to radicals of 313 various constitution , which it might be impossible afterwards to separate , except by working on a large scale , which , considering the costliness of the materials , had its disadvantages .
Perhaps success might attend the use of one of Dr. Frankland 's mirrors for concentrating the sun 's rays .
For obtaining the lead-radical , recourse was had to well-dried chloride of lead , which was introduced into a flask containing zincethyl .
The chloride immediately turned black , from the deposit of metallic lead , whilst moderate heat was disengaged .
An excess of chloride was used , and the mass incorporated by stirring with a glass rod .
After applying a gentle heat for a few minutes , the floating clear liquid was pipetted off .
This substance is apparently a compound of zinc-ethyl and the lead radicals .
It fumes slightly in the air , and no digestion with chloride of lead appeared to resolve it entirely into the lead base .
A great part of the zinc-ethyl , however , is removed by subsequent distillation ; but the temperature should not be permitted to rise above 140 ?
or 150 ?
C. The substance in the retort is then treated with water and dilute hydrochloric acid , when the radical separates , and sinks in the form of colourless drops .
When distilled cautiously , the thermometer soon rises to 200 ?
; but beyond this point the vapour is very prone to decomposition , with deposit of metallic lead .
From this tendency to change , there is some difficulty in obtaining the substance wholly pure from bodies with lower boiling-points .
The larger portion came over between 198 ?
to 202 ? .
Its specific gravity was found to be 1*55 .
Analysis led to the formula Pb C8 HO , or Pb ( C4 H1)2 .
It should , however , be noticed that a trifling excess in the percentage of carbon obtained , showed an increase rather than a decrease in the number of equivalents of ethyl .
This radical , for which the provisional name of plumbic bis-ethyl is suggested , is a colourless fluid , possessing little or no odour .
It is insoluble in water , but perfectly miscible with ether .
It burns readily with a beautiful orange-coloured flame , edged with blue , and gives off fumes of oxide of lead .
The radical appears to be incapable of forming salts without a 314 partial decomposition .
With weak acids there is no perceptible action ; but when they are concentrated and gently heated , a gas is given off , and crystalline salts are produced .
The chloride is insoluble in water , but soluble in alcohol and in ether , from which last liquid it crystallizes in satiny needles , which are very volatile and provoke sneezing and lachrymation .
It burns with the characteristic lead flame , and by long digestion with concentrated hydrochloric acid , is converted into chloride of lead and volatile products .
The sulphate also appears as a crystalline mass when plumbic-bisethyl is gently warmed with a few drops of concentrated sulphuric acid .
It is conveniently prepared by agitating the materials in a stoppered bottle , an exit being made from time to time for the gas which is liberated .
Both these salts require analyses to fix their composition , the details of which the author hopes shortly to be able to communicate .
The Action of Zinc-ethyl on Chloride of Silver .
These substances react with some violence , and a black substance sinks in the liquid , which proved to be a mixture of chloride and metallic silver .
The zinc-ethyl seems partly to escape decomposition , even when the chloride is in excess and considerable heat is applied .
On the addition of water , effervescence sets in , and chloride of zinc is alone found in solution .
In another experiment dry ether was employed instead of water , under a supposition that a solid compound might be formed , soluble in that menstruum .
The only reaction , however , appeared to be that expressed by the equation , C4 H5 Zn+Ag C1=Zn C l+Ag+C4 H , .
A similar negative result was obtained when zinc-ethyl was made to react on protochloride of platinum , PtCl .
The action is violent , and the platinum is thrown down in the form of platinum-black .
The same remark also applies to protochloride of copper , Cu , C1 , when similarly treated ; no combination of copper and ethyl could be thereby eliminated .
315 Action of Zinc-ethyl on Iodide of Stan-ethyl .
This iodide , C,4 15 Sn , I , was readily obtained by heating sealed tubes containing excess of tinfoil and iodide of ethyl from 150 ?
to 160 ?
C. The pure transparent crystals which were obtained by a little management , were introduced , in a melted state , into a retort containing zinc-ethyl .
It is necessary to cool the apparatus with water .
After breaking up the resulting mass , the retort was heated until the thermometer marked 210 ?
C. , and the distillate , which contained a slight excess of zinc-ethyl , was agitated with water , and treated with dilute acid , as before described .
The resulting heavy liquid was again distilled , and fractionized with the thermometer .
By far the larger portion came over between 170 ?
and 180 ?
as a clear and colourless body , insoluble in water , but soluble , like the other radicals , in ether .
That section which possessed a boiling-point between 176 ?
and 180 ?
C. , was taken for examination , and was found , when burned with oxide of copper , to give the formula Sn C8 HI , or Sn ( C4 H1)2 .
This compound , for which the name stannic bis-ethyl is proposed , has a specific gravity of 1'192 .
In its external and more prominent characters it resembles plumbic bis-ethyl ; but an exception may be made , that it is more stable .
It is very combustible , burning with a coloured flame and scintillation like that exhibited by the metal tin under the flame of the hydro-oxygen blowpipe .
This radical appears to differ in several particulars from the organo-metal stan-ethyl , C4 HHSn , obtained by Dr. Frankland by acting on sheet-zinc with a salt of stan-ethyl .
This last body is described as a thick , oily substance , possessed of a powerful odour , and having a specific gravity of 1*55 .
It differs also in its lower boiling-point , which is about 150 ?
C. Pure stannic bis-ethyl is perfectly limpid , inodorous , and is acted upon by hydrochloric acid with difficulty .
A gas is slowly evolved on the application of heat , and a chloride is formed which seems to be richer in tin than the radical itself .
The chloride appears to crystallize with difficulty , and at usual temperatures has the consistence of an oil .
It possesses a powerfully pungent odour , and when heated , a vapour which painfully attacks the skin of the face , and produces fits of sneezing .
316 A corresponding bromide is formed when bromine is added to stannic bis-ethyl .
It is an oily body , with an irritating odour .
When acted upon by ammonia , an oxide is precipitated , which with acids forms beautiful crystallizable salts , readily soluble in water .
A complete history of these salts , and their decompositions with zinc-ethyl , will possess much interest , and may prove of value in referring to a few simple radicals the numerous complex bodies described by L6wig , &amp;c. The author is at present engaged on this branch of the inquiry , a detailed account of which he hopes to embody in a communication to the Royal Society , the present paper being intended only as an outline to be hereafter filled in .
In conclusion , the author would remark that a rich harvest cal scarcely fail to be reaped , from submitting to the action of zinc-ethyl the metallic compounds of other groups , such as arsenic , bismuth , and antimony .
XIV .
" Preliminary Notice of Additional Researches on the Cinchona Alkaloids."Part II .
By W. BIRD HERAPATI , M.D. &amp;c. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received June 17 , 1858 .
Since the author had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society his paper entitled " Researches on the Cinchona Alkaloids , " Parts I. and II .
, he has been much occupied with a continuation of the subject , and he has arrived at important results , which , although in an unfinished state , he hastens to lay before the scientific world , in order to assure himself of the priority of discovery .
Having had occasion to make some experiments upon the rotatory power of the / 3-quinidin mentioned in the first part of his paper , he arrived at the conclusion that some other feebly dextro-gyrate alkaloid accompanied it , and of a more soluble and less crystallizable character .
Consequently , on its further purification by frequent recrystallization from alcohol , the quinidin was obtained perfectly pure ; it then had the molecular rotation assigned to it by Pasteur , namely 250 ?
' 75/ .
Two examinations have given the following elements : I. Its solution having been made in rectified spirit of '836 by boiling ,

