On an Imnprovement in the Manner of dividing astronomical Instruments .
By Henry Cavendish , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 18 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 221 .
] The use of the common beam-compass for dividing having been justly objected to , on account of the danger of bruising the divisions which have been made , by replacing the points of the compass into them , the author proposes a means of obviating that inconvenience , by siubstituting a microscope instead of one of the points ; and he describes a method of proceeding , in which there is no need ever to set the other point into any division already made .
The beam to be employed for this purpose must have a fixed point at one extremity , and at the other a centre of motion , round which the length of the beam may revolve as radius .
A microscope is to slide in a groove along the middle to any required distance from the point ; and in order that these may both be over the circle at the same time , the centre of motion must be capable of adjustment , that it may be fixed at a greater or less distance from the centre of the circle , according to the magnitude of the arc intercepted between the point and microscope .
In dividing by continual bisection , the microscope is first to be removed from the point to a distance nearly equal to the chord of the half-arc ; and when the centre of motion has been duly adjusted , and the wire of the microscope is made to bisect the dot at one extremity , a faint scratch must be made with the point .
The beam having next been turned half round , and the dot at the other extremity brought under the wire of the microscope , a second scratch is made with the point , which , if the distance has been taken , will be very near the former ; and the wire of the microscope will easily be placed midway between them in the further process of bisection , which is again performed in the same manner , after the position of the microscope and of the centre of motion have been duly altered .
In laying down the real divisions from the marks thus made , the centre of motion must be so placed that the whole length of the beam may become a tangent to the circle ; and when the microscope has been fixed close to the point , and the first dot brought under it , the first division is to be marked , and the rest in succession till all are made .
Since the entire arc of a circle cannot be divided to degrees without trisection and quinquesection , Mr. Cavendish describes three methods of quinquesection .
which it would be difficult to render intelligible without reference to the figures which accompany his paper ; and he also makes an estimate of the comparative accuracy attainable in bisection , trisection , and quinquesection .
As it would be difficult to place the centre of motion accurately , so that the point and axis of the microscope shall both be in the circle in which the divisions are made , it becomes necessary that the wire of the microscope should be placed truly at right angles to the length of the beam ; for then , although the point of intersection of the circle with the wire of the microscope is not accurately in the middle of the wire , still , when the beam is reversed , the point of intersection will lie at an equal distance on the opposite side of the centre , and will consequently be at a given distance from the fixed point of the compass .
In describing the apparatus , Mr. Cavendish has not entered further than was necessary to explain the principle , and has left the completion of it to the skill of any artist who may choose to adopt it .

