" Inquiries into the Quantity of Air inspired throughout the Day and Night , and under the influence of Exercise , Food , Medicine , Temperature , &amp;c. " By EDWARD SMITH , M.D. , LL. B. , L.R.C.P. , Assist .
Physician to the Hospital for Consumption and Diseases of the Chest , Brompton .
Communicated by Dr. CARPENTER , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) This communication consists of three parts , and contains the results of 1200 series of observations .
In the first part is contained the results of three investigations as to the quantity of air breathed during the whole of the 24 hours , and registered every 5 , 15 , and 30 minutes .
The second part describes the influence of posture , various kinds of exercise , physical agents , and different articles of food and medicine , on the quantity of air breathed , and on the frequency of the respiration and pulse .
The third part is devoted to certain inquiries in relation to the temperature of the body .
The author was himself the subject of all the investigations .
He is thirty-eight years of age , six feet in height , healthy and strong , and with a vital capacity of the lungs of 280 cubic inches .
The instrument employed was Glover 's patent dry gas meter , of improved manufacture , and arranged to register from 1 to 1,000,000 cub. ins .
Its action was reversed so as to measure inspiration .
An ori-nasal mouth-piece was employed , and it was connected with the spirometer by vulcanized caoutchouc tubing , and could be fastened upon the head by elastic straps .
The determination of the quantity of air inspired in the 24 hours was effected by three inquiries .
1st , by using the spirometer whilst in the quiet sitting posture during five minutes at the commencement of each quarter of an hour from 5 A.M. to 64 P.M. , and of each halfhour from 64 P.M. to 3A.M .
Exercise was taken in the intervals , and food was eaten at 8A.M .
, 1 , 5- , and 84 P.M. 2ndly , by using the spirometer without intermission during the whole of the 24 hours , except at intervals amounting collectively to 40 minutes .
The posture , exercise , and periods of sleep were noticed and recorded , and the quantity of air inspired was read off at the end of every five minutes .
3rdly , by an inquiry similar to the second , but continued through the night only , from 6P.M .
to 51 A.M. ; the quantity being recorded every quarter of an hour .
The first inquiry was made oi July 7 and 8 , 1856 , the second on January 19 and 20 , 1857 , and the third on January 21 , 1857 .
The maximum influence of various agents was determined both by the quantity of air inspired taken absolutely , and also relatively to that recorded immediately before the influence in question was exerted .
The inquiries were made before breakfast , or at periods distant at least three hours from the last meal , so as to avoid the disturbing influence of food .
Exertion , variation of posture , mental inquietude , change of temperature , &amp;c. , were avoided during the continuance of each inquiry , and hence the observations were never continued beyond a period of two hours .
The quantity of air was determined during periods of five minutes at a time , twice during the first quarter of an hour , and once at the commencement of each succeeding quarter of an hour .
The results were averaged per minute .
In all the above-mentioned inquiries the rate of respiration and pulsation and the temperature of the wet and dry bulbs with the barometric pressure were recorded .
The temperature of the breath was determined by the aid of an instrument consisting of a boxwood tube 3 of an inch in diameter and 1 inch in length , through the sides of which and at a right angle to it , a small thermometer was inserted and the bulb exposed freely to the exhaled breath .
A valve was placed at the distal end which permitted the exit of the breath , but prevented the entrance of air , whilst near to the end which was placed between the lips when in use , a valve was fixed which moved in both directions .
The bulb of the thermometer was thus enclosed in a small chamber .
The paper concludes with a summary of the principal results obtained and a series of deductions , applicable especially to the solution or elucidation of hygienic questions .
From the former the following facts are extracted : The total quantity of air inspired in 24 hours ( allowance being made for intervals amounting altogether to 40 minutes , during which it was not recorded ) was 711,060 cub. ins .
; or an average of 29,627 cub. ins .
per hour and 493'6 per minute .
The quantity was much less during the night than during the day .
There was an increase as the morning advanced and a decrease at about 8h 30r P.M. , but most suddenly at about 11 P.M. During the day the quantity increased immediately after a meal , and then subsided before the next meal ; but in every instance it rose again ' immediately before a meal .
The rate of frequency of respiration generally corresponded with the quantity , but the extremes of the day and night rates were greater .
The period of greatest parallelism was between tea and supper .
An increase was occasioned by one meal only , namely breakfast .
The average depth of respiration was 26 5 cub. ins .
, with a minimum of 18 ' 1 cub. ins .
in the night , and a maximum of 32'2 cub. ins .
at I1 30 ' P.M. The mean rate of the pulse was 76 per minute , the minimum at 31 30 ' A.M. , the maximum at 8h 45 ' A.M. ; the difference being more than one-third of the minimum rate .
Sleep came on in two of the series of continuous observations , and the time of its occurrence was also that of the lowest quantities of air inspired .
The amount of breathing was greater in the standing than in the sitting posture , and greater sitting than lying .
It was increased by riding on horseback , according to the pace , also by riding in or upon an omnibus .
In railway travelling the increase was greater in a secondthan in a first-class carriage , and greatest in the third-class and on the engine .
An increase was also produced by rowing , swimming , walking , running , carrying weights , ascending and de. .
scending steps , and the labour of the tread-wheel ; and in several of these cases the rate of increase was determined for different degrees of exertion used .
Reading aloud and singing , and the movement recommended by Dr. Hall for restoring suspended respiration , increased the quantity ; bending forwards whilst sitting , lessened it .
The quantity of inspired air was increased by exposure to the heat and light of the sun , and lessened in darkness .
Increase and decrease of artificial heat produced corresponding effects ; and the depth of respiration was greatly increased by great heat .
An increase in quantity was caused also by cold bathing , and sponging , and the cold shower-bath ; by breakfast , dinner , and tea-when tea actually was taken , but when coffee was substituted there was a decrease .
Supper of bread and milk also caused a decrease .
Milk by itself or with suet caused an increase .
An increase was obtained with the following articles of diet , viz. eggs , beef-steak , jelly , white bread ( home-made ) , oatmeal , potatoes , sugar , tea , rum ( 1 oz. ) .
The following caused a decrease , viz. butter , fat of beef , olive oil , cod-liver oil , arrow-root , brandy ( 1 oz. to 1 oz. ) , and kirchenwasser .
Ether ( drachm ) increased the quantity and depth of inspiration .
A decrease in quantity was caused by sp. ammon .
co .
( siss ) , sp. ammon .
foet .
( 5iss ) , tincture of opium ( 20 nl ) , morphia ( Q and -gr .
) , tartarized antimony ( I gr. ) , and chloride of sodium .
Carbonate of ammonia ( 15 grains ) caused a small increase at first and then a small decrease ; febrifuge medicines had a like effect .
Chloroform ( 25 T. and 5ss ) , by the stomach , varied the quantity from an average increase of 28 cub. ins .
to an average decrease of 20 cub. ins .
per minute ; with a maximum increase of 63 cub. ins .
per minute .
Chloric ether ( 5ss ) also varied the quantity , but there was an average increase of 17 cub. ins .
per minute , and of 1-8 per minute , in the rate ; whilst the pulse fell on the average 17 per min. Chloroform , by inhalation ( to just short of unconsciousness ) , lowered the quantity a little during the inhalation , and more so afterwards .
The rate was unchanged , but the pulse fell , on an average , 1-7 per min. Amylene similarly administered and to the same degree , increased the quantity during inhalation 60 cub. ins .
per min. , but afterwards decreased it to 100 cub. ins .
per min. less than during the inhalation .
The rate of respiration was unchanged : the pulse fell 6 per min. at the end of the observation .
Digitalis ( infusion 'i ) varied the quantity , increasing it at first and then decreasing it .
The rate of inspiration was unaffected , whilst that of pulsation somewhat increased .
The paper is accompanied by tables of numerical statements , and by diagrams exhibiting the results in a series of curves .
The President announced that the next Meeting of the Society , on the 7th of May , would be held in Burlington House .

