1881 .
] Dr. J. H. Gladstone .
Refraction , Sc. 327 The reticulum of the cortical part of a follicle is of two kinds consisting ( 1 ) of a reticulum , composed of coarse threads and of delicate cells , with long branching processes\#151 ; these cells and threads are attached to the blood-vessels .
In the meshes of this reticulum | two different kinds of small bodies are seen nearly equal in size ; the one ( a ) are very highly refractive and angular , and have short threads attached to their angles , the other circular and much less refractive a and b are acted upon differently by staining solutions .
The highly refractive bodies form the nodal points ( 2 ) of a delicate reticulum which encloses the circular less highly refractive cells .
Traces of this fine reticulum can be seen in the medullary portion .
The granular cells mentioned in a preceding note ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 27 , p. 369 ) take their origin in the connective tissue cells which constitute the network of the medullary portion .
These granular cells not only help to form the concentric corpuscles , but are actively concerned in the formation of fibrous tissue ; their fibrillated processes are sometimes found to be attached to newly formed connective tissue .
The granular cells are identical with some forms of giant cells\#151 ; they are not the plasma cells of Waldeyer , although plasma cells are present in the thymus , as has been described by Ehrlich .
January 27 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; ' The Refraction Equivalents of Carhon , Hydrogen , Oxygen , and Nitrogen in Organic Compounds .
" By J. H. GLADSTONE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received January 4 , 1881 .
\#166 ; Since the communication which I had the honour to read before this Society in 1869 , " On the Refraction Equivalents of the Elements , very little has been done on the subject .
My own contributions have been almost confined to two communications in the Journal of the Chemical Society , " in 1870 ; the one a lecture on the subject in general , the other a paper on the " Refraction Equiva-VOL .
XXXI .
2 B 328 Dr. J. H. Gladstone .
Refraction Equivalents of [ Jan. 27 , lents of the Aromatic Hydrocarbons and their Derivativestogether with a discourse at the Royal Institution in March , 1877 , on " The Influence of Chemical Constitution on the Refraction of Light .
" In the meantime , observations on many substances have gradually accumulated in my note-book .
Of late , however , the importance of the subject in regard to theories of chemical structure has been recognised by Dr. Thorpe and other chemists in this country , and attention has been recalled to it in Germany by the papers of Bruhl , who , following closely in the footsteps of Landolt , has endeavoured to explain the results in the language of modern organic chemistry .
At this juncture it may be of service to put on record my present views in regard to the refraction equivalents of the four principal constituents of organic bodies\#151 ; carbon , hydrogen , oxygen , and nitrogen .
The figures in this paper are always reckoned for the line A of the solar spectrum , the refraction equivalent being the specific refraction for A multiplied into the atomic weight , or P\#151 ; -1 In the present stage of the inquiry , though the results are deduced from many observations , I have not thought it desirable to go beyond the first place of decimals .
Carbon.\#151 ; Carbon in its compounds has at least three equivalents of refraction , 5-0 , 6 0 or 61 , and about 8'8 .
Whether its refraction should be one or other of these appears to depend on the way in which the atoms are combined .
When a single carbon atom has each of its four units of atomicity satisfied by some other element , it has a value not exceeding 5*0 .
There are some indications that the value may be slightly less than this .
When a carbon atom has one of its units of atomicity satisfied by another carbon atom and the remainder by some other element , it has the value of 5'0 , the same as in diamond .
This is also the case if two of its units of atomicity are satisfied by carbon atoms .
The majority of organic compounds of course fall into this category .
When a carbon atom has three of its units of atomicity satisfied by other carbon atoms , its value is 6*0 .
The most striking instance is that of benzol , C6H6 ( refraction equivalent 43- 7 ) , in which it is difficult to conceive that each carbon atom is not in the condition just described , and which , reckoning 1'3 for each hydrogen , gives a little less than 6'0 for each carbon .
Styrol , C8H8 ( 57'8 ) , gives a similar value .
There are other organic compounds in which only some of the atoms of carbon have the higher value .
It has been especially the work of Bruhl to point this out , and to show that where they occur ( as in amylene or the allyl compounds ) the carbon atom is in a condition similar to those in the phenyl nucleus , that condition in fact 1881.1 Carbon , Hydrogen , fyc .
, Organic Compounds .
329 which is generally represented in onr graphic formulae by two carbon atoms linked by double bonds .
The value assigned by Briihl in such cases is , however , 6*1 .
This somewhat higher figure is deduced from the aggregate value of the six carbon atoms in the nucleus of the aromatic series , which ( except in benzol and its simpler substitution products ) would appear to be nearer 37 than 36 .
If equally distributed over the six atoms this would give a value of at least 6'1 for each .
The fact , however , is susceptible of another interpretation .
It does not follow that in these more complicated bodies all the carbon atoms are exerting the same influence on the rays of light .
The replacement of hydrogen by some monad radicle is an important change ; and if that radicle be CH3 it is evident that according to present views the carbon atom must have all four of its units of atomicity satisfied with carbon , and by analogy we should expect it to have its refraction increased .
What that increased value may be , or which indeed of the two hypotheses is most in accordance with the facts , it seems to me that we have not yet sufficiently accurate data for determining .
When a carbon atom has all four of its units of atomicity satisfied by other carbon atoms , each of which has the higher value of 6*0 or 6'1 , its equivalent of refraction is greatly raised .
There are compounds in which the atoms of carbon actually outnumber the atoms of hydrogen or its substitute , such as naphthalene , C10H8 ( ref .
eq. 75*1 ) , naphthol , C10H8O ( 79*5 ) , phenanthrene , C14H10 ( 108'3 ) , and pyrene , ^i6-\#174 ; io ( 126*1 ) .
That the refraction is greatly raised is evident from the fact that , if we were to reckon all the carbon atoms at 6*1 , the refraction equivalent of the body would not be fully accounted for .
It is evident that in pyrene only ten of the atoms of carbon can be in the same condition as they are in benzol or styrol , the other six must have all their units of atomicity satisfied by carbon alone .
Now , if we allow 6*0 as the value of each of the ten carbons , and 1*3 for each of the ten hydrogens , we get 73*0 , which taken from 126*1 leaves 53*1 for the remaining six atoms of carbon , or 8*8 for each .
By a similar calculation the four extra atoms in phenanthrene are found to have the value of 8*8 each .
Taking oxygen at 2*9 , naphthol gives 9*1 for each .
But the experimental data do not indicate a higher value than 8*4 for each of the extra carbon atoms in naphthalene .
Provisionally I venture to assign 8*8 a3 the refraction equivalent of this highest carbon .
There are several other bodies , such as anthracene , anethol , furfurol , \#166 ; and hydride of cinnamyl , which from ' their abnormally high refraction appear to contain carbon in this last condition .
Hydrogen.\#151 ; The general evidence with regard to hydrogen in organic compounds tends to show that it has only one refraction equivalent , that originally assigned to it by Landolt , 1*3 .
Oxygen .
Briihl has been the first to point out that oxygen in organic 2 b 2 330 Mr. W. H. L. Russell on [ Jan. 27 , compounds has two values , and he comes to the conclusion that it has the value 335 where the oxygen is attached to a carbon atom by a double linking , but 2*76 in hydroxyl and where the oxygen is united to two other atoms.* This is deduced from experimental data : but there are other results which present difficulties .
Thus the refraction of no substance is more certainly known than those of water , wood spirit , and alcohol .
But the oxygen in H20 ( 5*9 ) appears to have the higher number 3'3 , notwithstanding its union to two atoms of hydrogen , while in CH40 ( 13T ) , C2H60 ( 208 ) , as well as higher alcohols , and the diatomic ethene alcohol , C2H402 ( 23*7 ) , and the triatomic glycerol , C3H803 ( 33'9 ) , the oxygen is not 2*76 , but 2*9 or 3'0 , the numbers originally assigned to this element .
Nitrogen.\#151 ; Nitrogen has two values , 4T and 5T , or thereabouts .
The lower value , 4*1 , is that originally deduced from cyanogen and metallic ' cyanides , and it seems to be generally confirmed by the observations on organic cyanides and nitriles .
The higher value , 5T , is deduced from all my observations on organic bases and amides , such as diethylamine ( 39*4 ) , triethylamine ( 54,6 ) , formamide ( 17 4 ) , \amp ; c. The determination of the value of nitrogen in nitro-substitution products presents some peculiar difficulties .
The observations are not accordant .
Even were the value of N02 obtained with certainty , it would not be easy to say how much should be attributed to the oxygen , , especially when it is remembered that combination with oxygen alters very materially the refraction of the analogous elements , phosphorus and arsenic .
I hope shortly to submit to the public the data for these calculations , and in fact the whole of my recent observations on the refraction of organic compounds , together with a fuller discussion of the conclusions that may be drawn from them .
II .
" On certain Definite Integrals .
" No. 8 .
By W. H. L. .
Russell , F.R.S. Received January 6 , 1881 .
I commence this paper with some general reflections on the theory of definite integrals .
A definite integral may be written thus\#151 ; jaa5/ ( a , b , c. . .
as)=0(a , . .
) .
If we expand in terms of ( a ) and equate the coefficients of on we shall have | dxfi(ntby o. , .
( n , . .
) .
* These have been calculated for line A.

