1871 .
] Sir W. Thomson on Approach caused by Vibration .
271 were given off from the lower part of each internode , but above the node , and were apparently epidermal .
There is also considerable doubt respecting the fructification of .
Some of the Volkmanniae have evidently belonged to this group ; but only one example retaining its minute organization has yet been found in which the structure of the central axes corresponded with that of the Catamites .
The relationship to Catamites of the fruits figured by Binney , under the name of Calamodendron commune , which are identical with the Volkmannia Binneyi of Carruthers , is more than doubtful , because of the anomalous structure of their central axes .
After a careful comparison of the organization of Catamites with that of the recent Equisetaceae , the author prefers constituting the former an independent order , distinct from , though allied to , the Equisetums , under the name of Calamitacece , and characterized by cryptogamic fructification and verticillate foliage , associated with an exogenous axis .
The latter feature probably involved the existence of something resembling a cambium layer , furnishing the material for the new tissues .
It is further proposed to divide these plants into two generic groups , viz. Catamites and Calamopitus ; the former to comprehend those unprovided with infranodal canals , and the latter those which possess them .
The existing specific distinctions appear to have little or no scientific value .
III .
" On Approach caused by Vibration .
" A Letter from Prof. Sir W. Thomson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. to Prof. Frederick Guthrie , B.A. Communicated by Sir W. Thomson .
Received November 17 , 1870 .
Dear Sir , \#151 ; I have to-day received the * Proceedings of the Royal Society* containing your paper " On Approach caused by Vibration , " which I have read with great interest .
The experiments you describe constitute very beautiful illustrations of the established theorem for fluid pressure in abstract hydro-kinetics , with which I have been much occupied in mathematical investigations connected with vortex-motion .
According to this theorem , the average pressure at any point of an incompressible frictionless fluid originally at rest , but set in motion and kept in motion by solids moving to and fro , or whirling round in any manner , through a finite space of it , is equal to a constant diminished by the product of the density into half the square of the velocity .
This immediately explains the attractions demonstrated in your experiments ; for in each case the average of square of velocity is greater on the side of the card nearest the tuning-fork than on the remote side .
Hence obviously the card must be attracted by the fork as you have found it to be ; but it is not so easy at first sight to perceive that the average of the square of the velocity must be greater on the surfaces of the tuning-fork next to the 272 Sir W. Thomson on Approach caused by Vibration .
[ Jan. 26 , card than on the remote portions of the vibrating surface .
Your theoretical observation , however , that the attraction must be mutual , is beyond doubt valid , as we may convince ourselves by imagining the stand which bears the tuning-fork and the card to be perfectly free to move through the fluid .
If the card were attracted towards the tuning-fork , and there were not an equal and opposite force on the remainder of the whole surface of the tuning-fork and support , the whole system would commence moving , and continue moving with an accelerated velocity in the direction of the force acting on the card\#151 ; an impossible result .
It might , indeed , be argued that this result is not impossible , as it might be said that the kinetic energy of the vibrations could gradually transform itself into kinetic energy of the solid mass moving through the fluid , and of the fluid escaping before and closing up behind the solid .
But " common sense " almost suffices to put down such an argument , and elementary mathematical theory , especially the theory of momentum in hydro-kinetics explained in my article on " Vortex-motion , " negatives it .
The law of the attraction which you observed agrees perfectly with the law of magnetic attraction in a certain ideal case which may be fully specified by the application of a principle explained in a short article communicated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh in February last , as an abstract of an intended continuation of my paper on " Vortex-motion .
" Thus , if we take as an ideal tuning-fork two globes or disks moving rapidly to and fro in the line joining their centres , the corresponding magnet will be a bar with poles of the same name as its two ends and a double opposite pole in its middle* .
Again , the analogue of your paper disk is an equal and similar diamagnetic of infinite diamagnetic inductive capacity .
The mutual force between the magnet and the diamagnetic will be equal and opposite to the corresponding hydro-kinetic force at each instant .
To apply the analogy , we must suppose the magnet to gradually vary from maximum magnetization to zero , then through an equal and opposite magnetization back through zero to the primitive magnetization , and so on periodically .
The resultant of fluid pressure on the disk is not at each instant equal and opposite to the magnetic force at the corresponding instant , but the average resultant of the fluid pressure is equal to the average resultant of the magnetic force .
Inasmuch as the force on the diamagnetic is generally repulsion from the magnet , however the magnet be held , and is unaltered in amount by the reversal of the magnetization , it follows that the average resultant of the fluid pressure is an attraction on the whole towards the tuning-fork into whatever position the tuning-fork be turned relatively to it .
Your seventh experiment * has interested me even more than any of the others .
It illustrates the elementary law of pressure in hydro-kinetics , not by showing effects of fluid pressure on portions of a solid bounding * Experiment 7 in .
Proceedings Roy .
Soc. vol. xix .
p. 38 , or experiment 10 , Phil. Mag. Nov. 1870.\#151 ; F. G. Presents .
1871 .
] surface , as all other illustrative experiments hitherto known to me have done , but by showing an effect of diminished fluid pressure throughout more rapidly moving portions of the finite mass of the fluid itself .
This effect consists of a slight degree of expansion , depending on the air not being perfectly incompressible .
The volume occupied by the more rapidly moving portions becoming slightly augmented , the remainder of the fluid would bp condensed were the whole contained within an altogether fixed boundary .
A moveable portion of this boundary ( that is , the surface of the liquid in your tube ) yields and shows to the eye the effect of the diminished pressure through the rapidly moving portions .
No branch of abstract dynamics has had a greater charm for the mathematical worker than hydro-kinetics , but it has not hitherto been made generally attractive by experimental illustrations .
Such refined and beautiful experiments as those you describe , and especially your seventh , tend notably to give to this branch of dynamics quite a different place in popular estimation from that which it has held ; but what is perhaps of even greater importance , they help greatly to clear the ideas of those who have made it a subject of mathematical study .
Yours truly , William Thomson .
Presents received December 8 , 1870 .
Transactions .
Batavia:\#151 ; Koninklijke Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie .
Natuurkundig Tijdschrift .
Deel 31 .
Afl .
1-3 .
8vo .
Batavia 1869 .
The Society .
Bern:\#151 ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen , ans dem Jahre 1869 .
Nr .
684-711 .
8vo .
Bern 1870 .
The Society .
Bremen:\#151 ; Naturwissenschaftlicher Yerein .
Abhandlungen .
II .
Bd .
II .
Heft .
8vo .
Bremen 1870 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; American Association for the Advancement of Science .
Proceedings .
Seventeenth Meeting held at Chicago , Illinois , August 1868 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1869 .
The Association .
Graz :\#151 ; Naturwissenschaftlicher Yerein fiir Steiermark .
Mittheilungen .
II .
Band .
II .
Heft .
8vo .
Qraz 1870 .
The Society .
Leipzig:\#151 ; Konigl .
Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Abhandlungen .
Math.-phys .
Class , Band IX .
No. 4,5 .
Phil.-hist .
Class , Band Y. No. 6,7 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1870 .
Berichte fiber die Yerhand-lungen .
Math.-phys .
Class , 1869 , 2,3,4 ; 1870 , 1 , 2 ; Phil.-hist .
Class , 1868 , 2 , 3 ; 1869 , 1 , 2 , 3 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1869-70 .
I The Society .
London :\#151 ; Pathological Society .
Transactions .
Yol .
XXI .
8vo .
London 1870 .
The Society .
VOL. XIX .
y

