466 Dr. A. J. Ewart .
On Physics and Physiology These results also accord with the appearance of the plants themselves .
The want of Pi\gt ; 05 results in a long limp growth , and very pale colour , and the attacked spots show corrosion and collapse instead of normal flecks .
Similarly , in plants deprived of K we have pale collapsing patches in place of normal flecks , though the plant is not drawn and etiolated as in the previous case .
Where Mg was wanting the drawing and paleness of the leaves were not so marked , and the fungus flecks in the positive case were more like the normal .
That a want of supplied Ca should have very little effect on either host or parasite , was no doubt due to there being small quantities available in the soil and pots .
The flecks and pustules were apparently normal , though small .
It is not easy to see why the pots with water only yielded plants with flecks as good as , or even better than those with normal solution , unless the concentration of the salts affects the fungus .
However it is probably not to be inferred that in any of these cultures the grass was totally deprived of the given salt\#151 ; it would get traces from the * pots and coir in any case\#151 ; but the effects of deprivation of salts ought certainly to be felt , and I think were so to some extent in lengthening the incubation period .
So far as the results go they suggest that differences in the supply of minerals affects the development of mycelium and of spores owing to effect on the host\#151 ; in cultivating the host we also cultivate the parasite .
But I would insist that these trials with special mineral-supplies are merely preliminary .
The task in hand was far too extensive for the problems to be solved in one season , and I contemplate carrying the whole matter\#151 ; or persuading some one to do so\#151 ; much farther in the future .
Meanwhile , the results give suggestions for further work , and much remains to be done along the lines I have here laid down , as well as in directions yet to be opened out .
" On the Physics and Physiology of the Protoplasmic Streaming in Plants .
" By Alfred J. Ewart , B.Sc. ( Oxon .
) , D.Sc .
( Loud .
) , Ph. D. , E.L.S. , Lecturer on Botany in the Birmingham Technical Institute .
Communicated by Francis Gotch , D.Sc .
, h.L.S. Deceived January 17 , \#151 ; Read February 20 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The results of an extended series of observations upon this phenomenon have led the author to conclusions which may be summarised as follows:\#151 ; of the Protoplasmic Streaming Plants .
467 The energy of movement is generated in the moving lajmrs themselves , and these are retarded by friction against the non-moving ectoplasm to an extent determined by their own viscosity , and to a much less extent by friction against the cell-sap which is passively carried with the stream .
The motor-mechanism is such that no backward reaction is exercised upon the external or internal layers .
The velocity of streaming is largely dependent upon the viscosity of the protoplasm , and hence also upon the percentage of water in the latter , but the osmotic pressure exercises little or no direct influence upon streaming .
The activity of diosmosis is not necessarily increased by the existence of streaming , but secondarily induced differences of osmotic pressure may be perceptible between streaming and quiescent cells .
Albuminous solutions containing 89\#151 ; 90 per cent , of w^ater have at 18\#151 ; 20 ' C. a viscosity of from 006 to 0-07 , with 95 per cent , of water 0-04 , with 72 per cent. 0-29 C.G S. unit .
Gravity exercises little or no influence upon streaming in small cells , and only a very slight indirect action on streaming in large ones .
The velocity of floating particles of greater or less density than the plasma may be distinctly affected by gravity , a fact which indicates that the viscosity of the streaming plasma is comparatively low .
As the temperature rises within certain limits ( 0 ' C. to 45 or 50 ' C. ) , the viscosity of the plasma decreases , and a large part of the increased velocity is due to this cause alone .
Assuming that the viscosity of the endoplasm corresponds approximately to that of 10 per cent , albumin , forces of 8-75 and 219 dynes would be required to impart velocities of 2 mm. and 0-4 mm. per minute to a gramme of moving liquid in cells of 0T and 0'01 cm .
internal diameter .
The amount of work done in a year represents , in the first case , a theoretical consumption of only ^i^th of a gramme of cane-sugar per gramme of moving liquid , and in the second represents only of the energy of respiration , even if 99 per cent , of the energy directed towards streaming is wrasted .
The force required varies inversely as the square of the radius , so that in a 50-cm .
tube of the cribral system of Gucurbita , having 2000 sieve-plates with sieve-pores of 2 gdiameter and 10 glength , a pressure of approximately half an atmosphere would be required to produce a movement in mass of the contents through the tube at a rate of 0'5 mm. per minute .
Hence an internal pressure of 5 atmospheres would cause an escape of the contents of an opened sieve-tube at an average rate of about 5 mm. per minute , so long as the pores remained unblocked , which corresponds with the slow exudation taking place wrhen a moderately turgid sieve-tube is first opened .
Regular protoplasmic streaming does not seem to occur even in the individual segments of sieve-tubes , and hence there is no need to discuss whether the protoplasm could generate the propulsive force VOL. LXIX .
9 , \#166 ; Dr. A. J. Ewart .
On the Physics and Physiology required to produce moderately rapid streaming through the pores .
The differences of hydrostatic pressure between the different segments of an intact sieve-tube would , however , frequently suffice to produce a direct transference in mass of the fluid contents through the pores of sieve-tubes at a millimetre or so per minute , * for , as evidenced by the influence of gravity and of centrifugal force upon suspended particles , the viscosity of the contents of the sieve-tubes is relatively low .
In the case of bacterium cells of 2 to 0*5 diameter , it is very doubtful whether the protoplasm could with economy generate the required propulsive force for perceptible internal streaming movements .
The latter take place in diatoms mainly on the external surface , and require relatively little expenditure of energy .
In the case of protoplasmic threads passing through fixed channels m the cell-wall , if these are XV y diameter and 5 y length , a pressure of over 6 atmospheres would be required to drive a liquid of viscosity 0075 through a single thread at a velocity of 1 mm. per second , bo that if a tissue-cell were isolated , it would at the lowest computation take several years for the escape of 1 cubic mm. of the cell-contents through one such thread under a maximal internal osmotic pressure , even supposing that the thread did not become plugged by floating particles and that no cellulose was formed across its exposed end .
The outer layers of the ectoplasm appear , moreover , to be very much more viscous than the endoplasm , and hence it is obvious that the threads do not subserve purposes of translocation , although minute particles of protoplasm may be bodily transferred from one cell to another in the course of time .
The direction of streaming is mainly determined by internal factors , and in rotating cells a reversal is only possible in certain cases an under very special conditions .
Changes occur spontaneously however in cells exhibiting circulation .
The total resistance during circulation is greater than during rotation , and hence , unless the velocity increases considerably , a change from the former to the latter after stimulation is not due to an increased energy of streaming but to a change in the configuration of the protoplasm .
The energy for streaming can be derived either from aero nc or anaerobic metabolism .
Certain species of Ohara and i in fac facultative anaerobes , and may exhibit slow streaming for 6\#151 ; 8 weeks in the entire absence of free oxygen .
No special chemical changes are connected with streaming . .
According to d. Bar , ( 'Compt .
Anat .
, ' 1884 , p. 177 ) Unger-lile process .
, from the aborning segments of a sieve-tube meet in the \#187 ; ev.-por\#187 ; ^ r.m\#187 ; .
distinct This discontinuity ha .
only been observed in dead " pXbly result , from the breaking of the viscous P\#153 ; topI\#171 ; \#187 ; uc thinnest points on death , which is a surface-tension effect commonly pxo dying protoplasmic threads .
of the Protoplasmic Streaming Plants .
469 Of the different constituents of the cell , cellulose , albumin , and chlorophyll aie paramagnetic ; starch , sugar , oil , water , and probably myosin also , are diamagnetic .
Plant-cells usually , though not always , place theii long axes parallel to the lines of force in a magnetic field .
The stiongest magnetic field used exercised little or no direct effect on streaming , although a pronounced secondary effect is produced on prolonged exposure as the result of inductive action .
The connection between certain forms of streaming movement , such as occur in a few fungi , and metabolism is a wholly indirect one , but this can hardly be a general rule .
Indirect relationships exist between streaming , giowth , and assimilation , but no direct ones .
Similarly the nucleus exercises no direct but a pronounced indirect influence on streaming .
An organised arrangement of the emulsionised protoplasmic particles is probably an essential condition for regular continuous streaming .
A great variety of agencies when suddenly applied seem to disturb this arrangement momentarily , and hence produce a temporary cessation of streaming .
This shock-effect results from sudden changes of concentration , sudden falls or rises of temperature , momentary electrical excitation , and the sudden application of various poisons .
The minimal , optimal , and maximal temperatures for streaming vary according to the plant or cell examined , and also depend upon ( 1 ) the age or condition , ( 2 ) the external medium , ( 3 ) the duration of the exposure , ( 4 ) the supply of oxygen , ( 5 ) the rapidity with which the temperature is raised or lowered .
At temperatures above 30 C. the velocity immediately assumed is , in the absence of a shock-effect , always greater than that shown a few hours or a few minutes afterwards .
Between 10 ' and 30 ' C. the permanent velocity is almost immediately assumed .
Below 10 ' C. the acceleration due to a rise of temperature frequently does not become fully manifest until after a certain lapse of time .
In the case of facultative anaerobes , the response to changes of temperature is less pronounced in the absence of oxygen than in its presence .
With short exposures the optimum and maximum points are raised , but with prolonged ones the maximum temperature is lowered by the absence of oxygen .
Strong light retards streaming , Avhile weak light may indirectly accelerate it in chlorophyllous cells .
It is still doubtful whether streaming is affected by directly impinging electro-magnetic wave-vibrations other than those of light .
Mechanical disturbances may act as inhibitory stimuli , and may be propagated internally in the form of pressure-waves .
Food-materials exercise both a direct and an indirect effect upon streaming .
Acids , alkalies , and metallic poisons all retard streaming , and may cause a temporary shock-stoppage when suddenly applied .
' 470 On the Protoplasmic Streaming in Plants .
Alcohols and anaesthetics when dilute may accelerate streaming , but when more concentrated always retard it .
Alkaloids , which are strong nerve or muscle poisons , have relatively little action upon the streaming protoplasm of plants .
Weak electrical currents may accelerate streaming , strong ones always retard it , while sudden shocks produce a temporary cessation .
The latent period of recovery decreases as the temperature rises up to the optimum .
Weak constant currents lower the optimal and maximal temperatures for streaming .
Cells are more sensitive to electrical stimuli at moderately high temperatures than at very low or very high ones , and the nucleus is fatally affected before the cytoplasm .
The electrical conductivity of the protoplasm undergoes a slight temporary increase on death , and it differs in the living cell from that of the cell-sap and of the cell-wall .
The effect produced by a weak constant current bears no relation to its direction with regard to the plane of streaming .
There is little or no analogy between a shock-stoppage of streaming and a muscular contraction , or between a nerve-muscle preparation and a streaming cell .
No permanently differentiated nervous mechanism exists in plants , although temporary better-conducting channels may appear as the result of prolonged stimulation or at certain stages in the development of growing organs .
Excitatory changes may be transmitted in the protoplasm of a cell of Ohara or at from 1 to 8 or 20 mm. per second ( 18 ' C. ) , but the rate of propagation from^cell to cell in tissues varies from 0T to 2 mm. per minute at 18 ' C. Neither the chloroplastids nor any of the visible floating particles in the protoplasm have any power of independent movement , but are passively carried with the moving stream .
The only kind of energy which appears capable of producing streaming movements under the conditions existing in plant-cells is surface-tension energy , and this is probably brought into play by the action of electrical currents which traverse the moving layers , and are maintained by chemical action in the substance of the protoplasm .
These currents may act upon more or less regularly arranged bipo are particles of emulsionised protoplasm in such a manner as to reduce their surface-tension on the anterior side , or increase it on the posterior one , hence producing streaming movement in a definite direction .

