]\gt ; On certain AUoys of Silver and Copper .
481 iares ( Capt. ) , F.R.S. Reports on Ocean Soundings itnd Temperature , New Zealand to Torres Strait , Torres Strait to Manila and Hong Kong .
H.M.S. ' Challenger .
' No. 3 .
folio .
London 1875 .
The Admiralty .
3uschle ( C. Tafeln complexel Primzahlen welche aus WurzeIn der Einheit gebildet sind . .
Berlin 1875 .
The Author .
Rosenbusch ( H. ) Mikroskopische Physiographie der petrographisch wichtigen Mineralien . .
C. , F.B.S. ( C. F.R.S. Electrical-Besistance Thermouleter and Pyrometer . .
London 1875 .
The Waroen ( G. K. ) An Essay concerning important physical features exhibited in the Valley of the Miunesota 1874 .
The Author .
Iough Notes of Journeys made iu the years 1868-73 in , India , , \amp ; c. .
Londo 1875 .
Messrs. Trubuer .
' On the Liquation , Fusibility , and Density of certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
2 By W. ANDLER R Chemist of the Mint .
Commlmicated by Dr. PLRCY , .
Received March 11 , 1875* .
Alloys of silver and copper possess many curions chemical physical )roperties which make them teresting part from their econoulic entitle them to careful tion .
most of theso a molecular mobility , in virtue of which ombillations of nnstituents of a molten alloy beeome segregated from the , tho lomogeneous character of which is thereby destroyed .
These irregularities of composition have long been nown .
Some ervations of Lazarus Erckern , in work ] ished i ntury , show that he ] ; thnl Jnrs nor accurate on bjecl is by his st xplicitly , in a memoir published iu of ilve -uoppcr loys containing much of the base metal , hc ( entr lutlss is less ich than the external portions .
Read March 18 , 1875 .
See ante , p. 340 .
His wolk was translated in ) by ttnb .
See ) ' I. p. 62 . .
iii .
) 1 ' Mr. W. C. Roberts on The alloys in question have , during the present century , been subject of many excellent researches in this country and on the continen the earliest systematic experiments being those of D'Arcet , General des Essais at the French Mint , who in 1824 investigated phenomena which attend the cooling of molten mixtures of silver are copper .
He does not appear to have published his results ; but in Levol stated , in a well-known memoir* , the object D'Arcet had view the discovery of a method of rendering homogeneous the of metal used in .
He adds that the researches in this directic offered little prospect of obtaining such a result .
I shall presently shos as the result of my experiments , that this conclusion may now modiiied .
Levol , in his own experiments , cast the alloy to be examined either a cubical iroll mould of 45 millims. side , or in a sphere 50 millims. diameter .
He concluded the only homogeneous alloy coutair of silve and of copper in 1000 ; and he conside : this to be a definite combination of the metals , having the formu ( or if be taken to be the equivalent of coppe1 All other alloys of silvel and copper he as mixtures of this with excess of either of the In 1860 Matthiessen studied these with the minute accura which characterized all his work , he described them as " " mechanic mixtures of modifications of the two in each other The cve of electric led him to doubt Levol 's conclusic that they were mixtures of the definile ] ( llew notation ) wit silver or copper ; for , as he obsel'ves , if this wel.e the case , we shou ] expect to find that the curve consisled of ight lines , connectir Levol 's alloy with pure silver and copper respectively .
But ing the , starting the copper side of it , see that a rnpI decremeut in conducting-power is caused by coppel .
being loyed with small quantity of silver .
From the alloy containing 10 cent. silver to that containing 65 per oent .
have a straight line ; and may regard the intermediate adloys mixtures solutions of these alloys .
Again , the latter of these to that contnining 72 per cen of silver , we may have a solution of ] loys c ) per cent. respectively .
This last point which esponds to col power of , fine silvel .
being talren as 100 ) is the minimu .
point of the culve , and corresponds most exactly to Levol 's The loys intelmediate between this pure silver may be lnixtures , perhaps solutions of it in containing small ntity of coppe it would appear as if there as au alloy of constant compositio about the point which l.eprescnts the one ) " " .
les dc lo position cuiqnc Phys. .
certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
483 of silver ; otherwise we should expecb straight line from the alloy containing 72 per cent. of silver to hich contains only 10 per cent. I now proceed to give the results of my experiments .
In commencing the in , it seemed prob , able , by the -points of a series of the alloys of silver copper , information of much interest might be to the { ngement hich attends the solidifioation of a fluid mass of { hese metals .
I ndopted modiiication of the described by Pouillet* , and employed by him in determining the specific heat of platinum at high As soon as the alloy under mination 1 melted , -iron cylinder of known eight was dropped into it by mcans of a sup- port .
The crucible as then removed from the , and , when the alloy showed signs of solidifying , the iron } transferled to a cnlorimeter , which consisted of concentric vessels of thin polished brnss , such as is ordinarily used for determining specific by the method of mixtures .
It necessary to determine the mean specific heilt of the iroIl employed , between C. { fixed { hc temperature likely to be attained in the coursc of the iments .
melting-point of silver a one , it 1 as been accurately ascertained by M. Becqnerel , who ) need { of pure silver crucible which was enclosed in tnbo lotmded b.y { he vapour of boiling zinc , the of ) M. Deville nt1040o C. As the its to the silver , this temperature may safely be the of the metal .
In order , therefore , to minc the specific of ] iron , I plunged the cylinder into molten silver , and transferred it to th cnlorimeter .
I may here obsel 've that the film of oxide hich formed on the of the iron to a great extent protccted it the molfell alloy ; but it was impossible to cn , rrying into the quantity of whioh adhered to th iroll .
} so was collected .
AI'iih ] ) taken as the specific heat , hile in th( } cilbc of eccssary c rection was made by ciug the .
heal of Iloy f specific heats of its constitucnfs ; of iron calculated by of by its ) ific heat , and dividing this product ) the ) by preliminary dded t of iron employed .
The specific heats of no } ) deterde Mr. W. C. Roberts on mined , and the adoption of 's numbers in calculating the hes carried into the calorimeter by the alloys may tend to make the few degrees too high .
The results of the experiments were calculated by means of the fol lowing formula :\mdash ; where is the weight of the iron employed .
, and are the water-equivalents of the calorimeter there mometer respectively .
is the initial temperature of tlJe iron .
, , , , , , , , water .
, , spccific heat required .
In one experiment these quantities had the ] grms. C. , , C. , , , C. The weight of silver carried over was grms. , the ting effec of is equivalent to that of .
of iron .
Therefore corrected value of is grms. these values in the above equation , Three successive experiments gave , , , the mettl 15693 being finally It may be pointed out that the specific heat of iroll thus determined includes ftnd neutralizes several errors which are to this method of determining high temper , atures .
The principa ] of these are:\mdash ; ( l ) loss of heat , which is rendered latent by the small amount of water which is evaporated ; ( 2 ) the slight diiference between the specific heat of the iron and the specific heat of the oxide formed on its surface ; ( 3 ) the loss gives as the mean specific heat of wrought between Oo and C. ( Pogg .
Ann. vol. cxlix .
p. 214 ) .
certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
of heat sustained by the irou duriug its transfer from the crucible to the oelorimeter ; and the rttdiation from this instrument .
The melting-point of copper has not beeu exactly ascertained ; and I experienced great difficulty im determining it by means of the calorimeter , as the molten metal adheres tenaciously to the iron .
Accuracy on this point is not absolutely essential to this inquiry , and I thelefore adopted 1330o C. , as this is considered by Dr. Van Riemsdijk* to be the probable meIting-point of pure copper .
The several ailoys were synthetically prepnred by melting together pure silver and pure copper ; and as soon as the crucible colltaining the fused metal was withdrawn from the furnace , a small portion of the thoroughly alloy was grauulated and set aside for lysis .
The requisite data for ascertaiuing the -point of each alloy were furnished by an experiment similar to that for determining the specific heat of ths iron , and iu calculating the resnIt it only necessary to transpose the equation Iready g the unknown quantity instead of .
The formula then becomes the value assiglled to in all cases .
15693 , the mean specific hcat of iron , as given above .
To an example .
In one experiment to deternline point of the 820 alloy , the following were obtnined:\mdash ; grms. C. C. The )veight of alloy carried ns , the of hich equivalent to that of } .
of iron .
corrected value of is grnls .
Substituting these lues in the ) .
The sults of the given in the ] Mr. W. C. Roberts on Melting-points of Silver-Copper Alloys .
certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
487 Melting-points of Silver-Copper Alloys ( eontinued ) .
These melting-points are by the jurve next ; the the lnts of the ffioys and their melting-points .
It will be observed that the exhibits cment brom pure silver to the which ; of one employed for the British silver .
In it the relntion eell the mounts of metals present is approximately replesented by the formuIn Cu .
The alloys numbered 7 and 8 are of terest .
The first , hich pnrts of silver , is Levol 's homogeIleous alloy ; cipated that it would have the vest n ; but the results showed that the alloy containing of silver ( No. 8 ) meIts a point which is degrees .
In ] it very silnple r exists between the atoms of the constituent being AgCu .
interest is imparted to it by ] } of electric conductivity having shown hnt tl1o lgcment of this composition would probably be the through the points dominates to C. , the -point ) ' .
Further evidenee as to the by placing strips of them small cibleb S by vapour of boiling cadmium , the ture of ) I as been fixed by Deville at C. elted , first ] sccond pletely .
I onvillced , theref tho } of the alloys generally are llot tely i by the cve .
lt is , imProbable that the tiolt of of ' Mr. W. C. Roberts on certain AUoys of Silver and Copper .
to the necessity of slightly modifying its form .
This critical rmination is especially necessary in the region of the 497 alloy ; for not only do the results obtained on it diverge widely among themeives , but their mean is far removed from the probable line of the opve .
I am not satisfied with the resuIts I have obtained on an alloy which crtains pnrts of silver .
This alloy is of special interest ; its \mdash ; mula is Cu silver being monatomic .
inoe the above was submitted to the Royal Society , I have mnde fflitional experiments om alloys in these two portions of the curve .
The lorimeter used was of thin polished silver , capable of holdin 1200 grnmes of water , which were never raised through more thnn C. lent of the instrument was only mmes .
The masses of iron used were such as been employed as carriers of hut in the first experiments : the mean of very concol d ults gave 15003 as the specific heat of the iron when this calorimeter is employed ; and , as has already been pointed out ( p. 484 ) , this number includes and neutralizes errors .
The results are distinguished by an asterisk in the Table , and have been added to those originally in the Diagram .
They confirlll the direction origiually given to the curve in the region of the which contain from 718 to 800 parts of silver ; but the existence of a cusp has been detected at the point which represents the alloy No. 11 .
It may be interesting to point out that the results from Matthiessen 's of electric conductivity developed to prove the presence of a cusp at the point represents the alloy Ag th May , 1875 .
] It may be useful to compare these results with those obtained by Rudberg on alloys of lead and tin .
He found that when a thermometev is placed in a molten alloy of these metals two distinct points indicated during the from the liquid to the solid state .
of these points is always C. ; and in the alloy Pb the coincide at this temperature\mdash ; a which led Rudberg to conclude that it was the only alloy in which whole of the met chemically combined .
I hope , in continuing this inquiry , to be able to whether the change of state in the of silver-copper alloys also terlninates at a constant temperature .
I meofion M. A. determined the melting-points of cert , ain Iloys of tin copper by means of Becquerel 's thermo-electric pyronleter ; and ho obtnined cordant resuIts with the alloys Sn and Sn ; but with all other alloys the resuIts differed widely among themselves .
It is at present difficult to show the direct ring of these the phenomeJla of liquation in loys of silver copper ; but the , as it proves the alloys Nos. 7 and 8 occupy positions 11 lys . .
p. 4,90 .
W. C. Robcrts on LIQUATION IN ALLOY CONTAINING RAPIDLY COOLED . .
Dip aseay Maximum diffcrcnce [ between the centre $Ju corncrs ] , per ALL0Y SLOWLY COOLED . .
1 " " Dip assay lsIaximum dilfercnccl , per thousand Fig. 3 .
ALLOY TAINING SLOWLV COOLED .
uSSuy , ALLOY CONTAINING SLOWLY COOLED .
- 71b c Dip \ldquo ; dilIclt .
thousand .
Fig. 4 .
SILI Elt .
ALLOY COPPLII .
SLOWLY COOLED .
Mr. W. C. Roberts on the lower portions of the curve similar to those which they hold Matthiessen 's curve of electric conductivity .
The range of temperature which these Fig. 7 .
mslting-points exhibit appears to justify the conclusion that liquation is in some way the result of the unequal cooling of a mass of silver and copper , and that if the cooling could be greatly protracted the liquation would be considerably modified .
In order to ascertain whether this were the case , I used cubical moulds ( about 45 millims. side ) of firebrick ( fig. 7 ) , which were easily heated to bright redness , and in which the alloys could be slowly and uniformly cooled* .
All the cubes represented on pp. \amp ; 491 were cast in moulds of description .
The first of these ( fig. 1 ) , the composition of which was parts of silver per 1000 of the alloy , was cooled rapidly .
Its structur confirms Levol 's general conclusion , as the centre contaills 1 parts thousand more silver than the external portions .
On the other hand fig. 2 shows that when the sams alloy is slowly cooled the hardly undergo any molecular -arrangement , the maximum difference bein only per .
A cube of the alloy used for the Frencl coinage , when rapidly cooled , exhibits a difference of parts thousamd between the centre and the corners ; but when the same meta ] is slowly cooled ( fig. 3 ) , the variation is only parts perthousand .
The maximum difference found by evol in his homogeneous alloy was part per thousand .
I find ( fig. 4 ) that if the cooling is slowly eflected this homogeneity is disturbed , the external portions being slightly richer in silver than the centre .
Fig. 5 exhibits the results of an experiment on the alloy which has the lowest meIting-point and the simple chemical mula Ag Cu .
Its structure is interesting , as the action of gravity appears to have influenced the arraIlgement , the lower parts of the cube being richer than the upper .
The maximum difference is parts per thousand .
I should observe that Levol found the corners of a cube of this alloy to be 15 parts richer than the centre ; but the only alloy in which he detected any eifect of gravity was that containing 690 parts of * In treating of ingots of low standard , Jars stated in 1781 , in the work to which I have already alluded ( note , p. 481 ) Je remarquai par des experiences que pour rendreles lingots d'une teneur plus egale dans toutes les parties il falloit que les lingotieres fussent aussi chaudes qu'il est possible I should state that certain mpublished experiments by Dr. Boycott , formerly Assay Master in the Calcutta Mint , have shown that the liquation of silver-copper alloys is modified by casting the metal in sand moulds , and that Nr .
E. Said suggested in 1871 , in a work printed for private circulation , the use of hot llon moulds in casting gold and silver , as an improvsment in the process of coinage , the being " " more in temper and in molecular arrtlngement\ldquo ; ( patented in , No. .
certain AUoys of Silver and Copper .
less than per cent. of silver the external parts are richer the centre .
The curve of fusibility shows that the alloys which conA less than 35 per cent. of silver have higher melting-points aher alloys of silver and copper , or even than pure old not appear , therefore , that liquation is the ling out of the least fusible alloy present in a mass of silver and copper ; for if it were , the external portions of the alloys would in all cases be less rich silver than the centre .
I cannot at this stage of the inquiry offer a complete explanation of this molecular rearrangement ; but I venture to thinlr that the resuIts already obtained are .
They , that the alloys are situated on the of the lrves of fusibility and conductivity ; and second , the of an alloy is to a extent dependent on the rate at which it is cooled .
In accordance with a suggestion made to me by R. lIallet , I ondeavoured to determine the relation between the densities of silver in the solid and the molten state .
I adopted the method which he devised md has employed in the determination of the density of molteu iro A conical vessel of best thin Low-Moor plate ( 1 millim. thick ) , abont 16 centims. in height , and having an of ntims .
, was weighed , first empty , and subsequently filled )with distilled water at a known temperature .
The fflorded for accurately determining its cnpacity the ture of the air Molten silver was then poured into it , the the time of pouring being ascertained by the method ] described .
The precautions , regards ] ) otl were adopted ; and as soon as the cold , he ilh ils contents again weighed .
The surface of the molten metal in ( } ered ith coal ; and as pure silver , when in iqnid sf } to absorb gen if exposed to the air , the cone filled of coal-gas .
* Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xxi , ( .
xxiii ) Mr. W. C. Roberts on The most of corl.ections pplied to these resuIts was for change of of the iron vessel which attended the introductic of the molten met Different qualities of wrought iron vary considerably to tatic by heat .
This fact , together with the increase in the expansio at high temperatures , rendered it necessary to determine the mean between C. and the melting-point of silver .
For this purpose llodification of Bamsden 's thod adopted , the iron being placed graphite trough and surrounded by moltell silver .
The micromete .
when the length of the iron ined for a period invariable , as this was the true solidifying-point of the silve the loss of the latent heat of liquefaction renderin the temperatu1 A great number of experiments wele ; and lthough they ttended with much difficulty , I believe the ving results to be trust thy ( the numbers represent the mean coefficient of expar sion C. of the ]}Ioor iron employed , up to the temperatur of melting silvel):\mdash ; , , , , , Meall a mean coefficient of cubical expansion .
This result is higher thnn that of Binmaml , as the meall coefficient of expallsion of }rought i C. and ' ' white heat The results of the experiments mnde with view to tain t densities of pure silver aJld of Levol 's wheu il moIten state are given in the ying T .
was chosen for the experiment , its density lvhen solid arly agrees that calculated the densities of the constituen The cubic dilatation , in the of pure the rafio .
Deduciug from this the mean coefficient , say C. , we obtain psr 1o C. of linear expansion erefore certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
The mean of the coefficients of linear dilatation of silyer between C. , given by arious authorities , is It will thus be seen that the expansion of silver C. 1050o C. is about vice as mtlch as it old heell had this ate of expansion been maiutained the holc of temIerature .
The mean coefficient of linear dilatation of Levol 's , as deduced rom the resuIts en iu the , is ; Jut it is impossible to compare this ) } ith the rate of nsion at low emperatures , as the latter hfts not been In siou T llltlch I ve } from of ) whose tion h. ; ( I I express my thanlcs to } the tiollS .
VOL. XXIII .

