On the Derangements of certain Transit Instruments by the effects of Temperature .
By Robert Woodhouse , A.M. F.R.S. 85c .
Read April 26 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 144 .
] In the Philosophical Transactions for 1825 , the author alluded to the derangement of the Cambridge transit instrument , arising from unequal expansion of its braces , establishing , as he conceived , the fact and cause of such derangement ; and in a subsequent paper instanced its effect in one case as altering , by no less than 20 ' , the time of the passage of the pole star over the wires .
In consequence the removal of the braces was resolved on , but from one cause or other delayed ; but the author considers good to have arisen from this procrastination , as enabling him to make further experiments , which he was led to do in consequence of Mr. South 's observations , which lead to conclusions opposite to those deduced by himself .
To satisfy his own mind , therefore , he instituted the series of experiments described in this paper .
His first care was to determine precisely , by a series of transits , the polar intervals between the wires of his eye-piece .
He then observed the pole star at its lower culmination , and after its passage over the middle wire , applied a warm blanket to the upper eastern and lower western brace , and found that a deviation of the telescope to the west had taken place , such as to alter the passage over the remaining wires nearly 19 seconds , and in the direction corresponding to the expansion of the braces .
Another observation , under more favourable circumstances , gave a similar result ; viz. 18 seconds of retardation .
In another experiment the warm blankets were applied to the upper western and lower eastern braces , when deviations appeared to have taken place to the extent of 36 , 29 , and 27 seconds in the respective passages over the 5th , 6th , and 7th wires .
In another trial the passages over the three first wires were ob &lt; 1 served , and warm blankets were then applied to both the western braces , and a deviation to the west , though not above one third of that arising from their application to the alternate braces was the consequence , indicating the difference , not the sum , of the actions in the two cases ; and in this experiment it is very unlikely that the two braces should have been equally heated .
The next experiment was varied by observing the passage over the 1st and 2nd wires , then warming the upper western brace , and observing it on the 3rd , 4th , and 5th wires , allowing the instrument to cool , then again warming the lower western brace to a yet greater degree , and observing on the 6th and 7th wires .
The result was~ a deviation to the east , caused by the first warming , a return to its mean state , and then a deviation to the west from the second warming .
The experiments were varied by holding the braces some time in the hand , and with similar results .
From these details , the author concludes that the partial heating of the diagonal braces , or of any one of them , deranges the Cambridge transit instrument , according to the reasoning in his former paper ; and that this cause may , in certain instruments , and under certain circumstances of temperature , produce balancing effects , thus giving an appearance of inflexibility which , under other circumstances , would not subsist .
He then enters into a consideration of the circumstances of Mr. South 's experiments , in which , as the braces on the same side were equally heated , the difference of temperature in the upper or lower parts of the tube alone could have operated , and might produce an insensible effect .
He combats the idea that the apparent rigidity of Mr. South 's instrument arose from its peculiar construction ; as the Greenwich transit , which is similar , and by the same artists , has been found by the assistants , on holding the alternate braces in their hands , to undergo a considerable deviation by the test of the meridian mark .
But to be more sure of the nature of the result produced , he requested the Astronomer Royal to try with the Greenwich transit the first experiment mentioned in this paper .
He did so , and the results were found to be in accordance with the views entertained by Mr. Woodhouse , and are here stated .
He concludes this subject by inviting Mr. South to an experiment , decisive , as he conceives , of the question as far as concerns his instrument , viz. to observe the passage of Polaris in October with one brace exposed to the sun .
On the subject of the sun 's transits , he declares himself unwilling and unprepared to enter , and states himself to have found a difference between the clock 's errors , as determined by the sun and the stars , similar to that concluded by Mr. South , and nearly the same in quantity .
This , he says , may be partly explained by the increase of the right ascensions of the stars by three tenths of a second , in late catalogues by Milr .
Pond , while no corresponding change was made in the catalogue from which the solar tables were computed .
He considers , on the whole , that the differences in question arise

