]\gt ; Mr. W. M. Hicks .
On Toroidal Functions .
[ Mar. seen to be more advanced than at the part which was free from pigment .
The pigment was packed in the tubes around and between the spores ; but , by focussing , it could be seen that the substance of the ftpore was free from it .
The free spores and short rods were free from pigment .
The bacteria in which it was observed showed no other and were of about the same calibre as the rodbacteria { lsually observed .
The fact is noted as affording proof that bacteria can take up minute solid particles through their walls . .
" " On Toroidal Functions By W. M. HICKS , M.A. St. .
John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , F.B.S. Received uary 2 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains the development of a theory for functions which satisfy Laplace 's equation , and are suitable for conditions given over the surface of a circular anchor ring , and which therefore seem important in the possibility of their applicat1on to the theory of vortex rings , as well as other physical problems .
the nature of the case , it will not be easy to give an intelligent and full abstract of the resuIts without making it unduly long , but it may be possible to give some idea of scope and the method of development .
Curvilinear co-ordinates are employed , the orthogonal surfaces being those formed by the revoIution of a system of circles through two fixed points , and the circles orthogonal to them , whilst the third system are planes through the axis of revolution .
Calling these , it is shown that any potential function can be expanded in the form\mdash ; where are particuIar integrals of a certain differential equation , and which are the toroidal functions whose discussion forms the principal part of the paper .
They are in fact the same as spherical harmonics of the first and second kinds of imaginary argument , and of orders of the form .
It is shown how the can be expressed in terms of the first and second complete elliptic integra ] ; and the in terms of the complementary integrals .
Several interesting results are arrived at , amongst others on relabions between the and functions , e.g. , between the zonal functions .
The serve for expansions the space outside a tore , whilst the serve for space within .
1881 .
] Iificroscopical Researches in Ifigh Power Definition .
505 Section ii is devoted to the consideration of zonal functions , i.e. , functions suitable when the conditions are ical about an axis .
Section iii deaIs with the general case , whilst in the last section illustrations of the use of the functions are given by application to several problems , such as the potentials of tores under the action of an electrified ring , or point of electricity , and the velocity potential when a tore moves parallel to itseIf in a fluid .
Among the resuIts obtained , which may be mentioned here , is the electrical capacity of an anchor .
When the section of the ring is not very large compared with the central opening , a very close approximation is given by the formula\mdash ; where being the radii of the circular axis , and generating circle of the ring respectively .
The approximation is so close that the formula only makes an of about3 per cent. when is so large as R. If a tangent be drawn from the centre to the anchor ring , and it sphere be described with this for radius , the capacity of the tore measured in terms of that of the sphere is when this is 36049 , when this is 43405 .
VI .
' Microscopical Researches in High Power liminary Note on the Beaded yilli of Lepidoptera-Scales as seen with a Power of 3,000 Diameters By Dr. BOYSTON-PIGOTT , F.R.8 .
Received January 15 , 1881 .
In carrying out the investigation of the molecular structure of insect scaIes , under the finest attainable amplification , the has been made that the striated surfaces of these scales , appearing approximately beaded , are really covered with villi , chenille or velvet pile , terminating in a spherule .
The recognised object of these striae regarded a ations is to give strength to a most delicate tissue , which again supported b.y 'jross strioe .
Upon these transverse striae I have discovered villi erected

