]\gt ; 442 Mr. P. D. Innes .
On the Vdocity of the [ June 13 , with the magnification employed the lines were widely separated .
The definition of the lines was not sensibly impaired by the thickness of glass traversed , and remained good when the load was applied .
The maximum load which could be applied with safety separated the two components of either or by an amount approximately equal to the original distance between the sodium lines , so that one component of was coincident with the other component of On the Velociiy of the Cathode ticles emitted by under the Influence of Rontgen Rays , and its on the Theory of Atomic Dismtegration .
By P. D. INNES , M.A. , , 1851 Exhibition Scholar of the University of Edinburgh ; College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 13 , \mdash ; Read June 27 , 1907 .
) The numerous theoretical and experimental investigations during the past few years of J. J. Thomson , Rutherford , Becquerel , and others on the radio-active substances have demonstrated conclusively that the only theory which can satisfactorily account for the phenomena observed is that of atomic disintegration , a process which is apparently going on in several , if not in all , of the elements .
This process , however , seems to be entirely spontaneous , to depend only on the special substance under investigation , and to be outside the control of any external influence brought to bear upon it .
Immense labour has been expended on experiments involving the utmost variation in the temperature and in the chemical and physical conditions of the elements , but all to no purpose so far as influencing the rate of atomic disintegration is concerned .
As far as is known at present , no variation in the output of energy has been detected .
There are , it is true , results by Curie and Danne , more recently by Makower , which seem to show an effect of temperature on radium emanation .
These results are not , however , confirmed by Bronson in his experiments on the same subject , so that no definite conclusion can yet be reached on this point .
Obviously , it would be of immense interest and irnportance , not only from the scientific point of view , but also from the technical and commercial standpoint , if some method could be devised of stimulating or retarding at 'Comptes Bendus , ' vol. 138 , 1904 , p. 748 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 77 , 1906 , p. 241 .
'Amer .
Jour .
Sc 1905 , p. 60 , and ' Phil. Mag [ 6 ] , vol. 11 , 1906 , p. 143 .
1907 .
] Cathode Particles emitted by Various will this output of atomic energy .
That there is a great store of energy in the atom seems now beyond question , and if this reservoir could only become available , all our present conditions might be completely revolutionised .
Naturally , the only mode of attacking this problem is by what the of this atomic emission of energy is .
Now in the case of radium and the other properly so-called radio-active elements , in which the radiated energy is great , of different kinds , and continually being emitted , the question of ating the factors atomic crration is more complicated .
There is , ever , a simpler kind of ration , or , at least , of radiating power , and this , too , a kind which can be excited at will , and therefore it was natural to turn one 's attention to it for a solution of the problem .
It was early discovered in the history of the rays that , when they impinge on a metallic surface , they rise to ( 1 ) a set of to the original rays , but usually less penetrating , called the secondary rays ; ( 2 ) ively charged particles which can be dellected by an electric or magnetic field .
The presence of these particles or cathode rays seems to indicate that here , too , there is a kind of atomic disintegration going on , somewhat similar to that which takes place in the radio-active elements , the cathode particles being corpuscles emitted or extracted from the atoms of the element .
Such a conclusion , though very natural is , however , not necessarily true , for it is quite possible to account for them in another way .
The modern theories of electrical conduction assume that there is present in conductors a large number of free corpuscles , not intimately bou.nd up in the atomic structure of the element , and it may be these electrons which are extracted or hurled out by the impulse of the impinging Rontgen rays .
If such were the case , then there could be no question of tapping the energy of the atom , for there would be no atomic disintegration taking place .
There to be a possibility of discriminating between these two hypotheses .
Granting , for the moment , that there is disintegration , i.e. , that under the influence of the Rontgen rays a kind of explosion takes place in the atom , then the velocity of the corpuscle will be primarily ) due to the energy of the explosion .
We may regard the atom as and storing up the energy of the primary rays .
This will go on till certain stage the atom , now possessing the requisite energy or being in the proper condition , hurls out one or more of its corpuscles .
Under these circumstances the original velocity of the ejected electron will be independent of the rate of reception of energy from the rays , and will be that due to the explosion alone .
The number of corpuscles given out 1S 444 Mr. P. D. Innes .
On the Velocity of the [ June 13 , might conceivably , and indeed naturally would , vary , while the velocity might be different in different elements , as a result of difference in internal atomic structure , which would involve the reception of a different amount of energy to different atoms to the exploding stage , and also a different violence of explosion .
lf , on the other hand , it was the free corpuscles which were hurled out by the impulse of the impinging rays , then a variation in their velocity of ejection with a varying intensity of the primary rays would naturally follow .
It was from this standpoint that Professor J. J. Thomson proposed to me the experiment of which the following give an account .
Many experiments have already been performed investigating this secondary radiation , notably by Curie and Sagnac , *Perrin , and Dorn , while Sagnae has published a further paper .
S The results of Curie and Sagnac and of Perrin show that these ejected cathode particles are of feeble power , being almost entirely absorbed in 1 mm. of air at atmospheric pressure , while Dorn has measured their velocities , and finds that they are not homogeneous .
His values vary from to , depending on the value of adopted .
These results , however , cannot be used to solve our problem , as Dorn took no pains to keep his rays of the same intensity or hardness except within very wide limits .
Experim After due consideration it was decided that a photographic method offered several advantages over an electrical one , especially in that the results were permanent and could be referred to when desired as a check .
while a magnetic field was used to deflect the cathode particles .
Obviously , from Sagnac 's results , the experiment had to be carried out in vacuo , and a specially good vacuum was required , otherwise the particles would be scattered in their path and no clear lines would be obtained on the photographic plate .
The first method thought of was similar to that used by McKenzie in his determination of the velocity of the rays from polonium i.e. , by placing a screen of zinc sulphide in front of the raphic plate and inside the vacuum ; this , on being struck by the rays , phosphoresced and affected the plate .
A great advantage offered by this mode of experiment was that it 'Jour .
de Phys [ 4 ] , vol. 1 , 1902 , p. 13 .
'Ann .
de Chim .
et Phys [ 7 ] , vol. 2 , 1897 , p. 496 .
'Lorentz Jubilee Volume , ' p. 595 , 1900 .
8 'Ann .
de Chim .
et Phys [ 7 ] , vol. 22 , p. 493 , 1901 .
'Phil .
Mag [ 6 ] , vol. 10 , p. 538 , 1905 .
1907 .
] Cathode Particles emitted by Metals .
did not entail the renewing of the vacuum every time the apparatus to be opened to insert a fresh plate .
It was found , however , that the photographs so obtained were slightly fuzzy at the .
Hence it was believed that more accurate measurements could be obtained if the rays were allowed to fall directly on the plate , even the vacuum had to be renewed each exposure .
The latter method was , therefore , immediately adopted in preference to that of McKenzie .
The tubes used were fitted with an anticathode of stout platinum fixed on to a glass tube containing water , good contact being obtained by means of a wire sealed through this tube .
Thus , a heavy current could be used with a minimum of risk to the tube .
It may be mentioned that in an experiment such as this , where the rays require to be kept as constant in intensity and hardness as possible , the Rontgen bulbs are a constant source of trouble .
The very heavy discharge which was required ( as will ) shown later ) , as well as the hardness of the rays which were frequently used , often broke them .
This greatly hindered the of the experiment , one having sometimes to wait several weeks before the bulb again available .
vork the bulb , a 12-inch Apps induction coil was used .
It might be well to mention here the method of using the bulb which was adopted hout the whole course of the experiments , in order to overcome the difficulty due to inconstancy of the rays .
The bulb was allowed to work for one minute , then rest for two minutes or slightly longer , then one minute of work and so on .
Such a method undoubtedly renders the work much slower ; for example , it will be seen later that nearly four and a-half hours ' exposure was required in some instances , so that the time required for the taking of one such photograph amounted to three days of continual work .
The greater regularity and constancy of rays obtained were , however , considered well worth such an expenditure of time .
It might be convenient also to give at this stage the method used of testing the constancy and regularity of the Rontgen rays during the exposures .
It is well known that if the rays impinge on a plate of lead , and the resulting ionisation of the air is driven back to the plate struck , alarge leak is obtained .
This ionisation is partly that due to the secondary rays and partly to the cathode particles which we are ating , and its total amount alters very much with variation in the intensity or hardness of the tube .
The apparatus consisted of a brass box ( fig. 1 ) in the centre of one of which was a circular hole cm .
in diameter .
inside the box and directly opposite this hole were placed a ring A of copper wire gauze and a circular lead plate mm. thick , each larger in diameter than the hole in $ ?
( It ; Sk ?
Al [ puoo Japun ?
OS xoq OS 'xoq $ SJ0$Iq xoq I uoqa loe eo ) xoq 1907 .
] Cathodc Particle .
An attempt was made roughly to measure the penetration of the rays by means of aluminium plates of different thicknesses and a standard plate of tin .
The were placed in fronlt of ] -cyauide screen on which the rays were ( it was noted which alulninium plate ) Yave the same absorption as the standard plate .
The finally adopted of estimatin the hardness of the rays lvas the parallel spark gap , spherical brass electrodes of about cm .
diameter being used .
The esults are }iven with each plate .
reliminary experiments with a simple form of apparatus to obtain the of exposure necessary for a photograph showed that it almost impo , sible , unless with very exposure , to get an impression on plate while the -break of the induction coil was used , and as the Wehnelt Electrolytic Interrupter is not suited for constant rays , a turbine interrupter was nsed throughout the experiments .
The apparatus found most suitable from preliminary experiment wholly of brass 3 mm. thick , and was designed as ( fig. 2 ) .
It consisted of ppel rectangular part 9 cm .
broad by 2 cm .
thick cm .
high .
To the bottom of this and in the centre fixed , an angle of a narrower portion of the same thickness .
long , but cm .
bload .
( The reason for beino t. at an of to the top part will be apparent later from the description of the ngeulen t of the netic field .
) In one side of this lower part , at distance of ) cm .
from the bottom , was cut the inlet A ) cm .
broad by , for the primary rays .
A lead plate , 3 cm .
by cm .
by 2 stened , insulated , on an ebonite block , which again was fixed on a brass , the ebonite of such a size that it fitted exactly into the the apparatus , and so shaped that when it wa sealed in the lead plate opposite the inlet at an ngle of to the prinlary rays horizontally .
the brass and the ebonite block passed a wire hich was soldered the lead leflector , and insulated by passed through brass .
This wire permitted the metallic reflector earthed or aised to any thought convenient .
I may here mention that this wire was kept earthed during the whole course of the experiments .
In two lead plates mm. thick , and of such a size as to fit exactly into the lower palt of the apparatus , were cut slits and .
long and 1 mm. broad , at such an to the sides of the plates that fitted into the apparatus the slits were exactly parallel to each other , and vertically beneath the centre of the broad upper part , their edges ' perpendicular to the lon edges of the upper of the ratus , and , a will be VOL. LXXIX.\mdash ; A. 2 Il Mr. P. D. Innes .
On the Velocity of the [ June 13 , seen later , parallel to the lines of force in the netic field .
The slits were fixed during the experiments with the lead reflector , at a distance of cm .
between their middle points , the lower one being 0.2 cm .
above the inlet A. The inlet was covered with aluminium foil 0 mm. thick , strengthened by a mesh of aluminium mm. thick placed under it , an air-tight joint obtained by means of -wax .
The apparatus was connected to a Topler pump and McLeod ) auge by a tube bent to exclude the light .
FIG. 3 .
Within the upper part of the apparatus was inserted the raphic plate-holder .
The holder was of brass , and fitted exactly , so as to slide smoothly up and down .
It could be fixed at any distance above the slits by means of a thin brass rod sing through a hole in the top of the holder .
This rod had small holes bored in it at intervals of 1 cm .
, so that a thin brass pin could be inserted in any hole , and on this pin the top of the holder rested .
Thus the plate could be fixed at any required distance above the slit .
The strip of raphic plate inserted was of plate and cm .
broad .
This size was chosen to avoid exerting pressure on the plates while cutting them into very small parts , it been found from previous experience that such pressure tended to fog sensitive plates considerably .
Two thick smoothly planed brass plates 1 cm .
thick were taken , and one of them soldered to the top of the apparatus .
Holes were bored in these plates and by means of nuts ( all of brass , as they were to be in a field ) they could be pressed firmly ether .
Lead wires were drawn , and one was placed inside the nuts between the brass plates , just like a washer .
When 1907 .
] Cathode Particles emitted by Various Metals .
the nuts were screwed up , it was found that a high vacuum could be readily obtained and maintained a considerable time .
A great many different kinds of raphic plates were tried :Ilford Ordinary , Ilford Monarch , Cadett Cldinary , Caclett , Cadett Spectrum , Imperial Ordinary , Seed Orthochromatic , , and Wrattenspectrum plates .
These brands of plates range from comparatively slow to very , and it is of interest to note those plates which are most sensitive to ordinary are by no means in the same category when it is a question of particles .
Thus the Wainwright plates , which are extremely sensitive , the potassium quite easily , were unsuitable for this work .
The most suitable here were Cadett Spectrum , L ) , and Seed Orthochromatic , and it is the last named plates that have been mainly used .
of Ficld .
At first a horse-shoe electro-magnet was used .
This was soon discarded in favour of a magnetic field induced by two coils used in the manner of a Helmholtz galvanometer .
With such an arrangement , the field is uniform almost up to the boundary of the coils , can be most readily calculated .
In these circumstances , too , the particles were , during the whole of their path , under the influence of a uniform magnetic field , and consequently moved in circle , thus immensely the process of the velocity .
The coils were most carefully wound on mahogany grooves , there in each coil 17 turns and 19 turns in all .
Their circumfelence was measured by a steel tape after each successive layer , the mean radius calculated from this .
Its value was cm .
The principal galvanometer constant at the centre to umit current absolute was .
These calculated constants were checked by comparing the magnetometric deflection obtained with these coils with the deflection due to another standard coil , the circumstances sixnilal .
The reement was found to be very satisfactory .
The coils were placed parallel to ) longer edges of the ) part of the apparatus , and so perpendicular to the slits .
The induction coil was placed at such a distance that its field was practically ible , while its orientation with reference to the apparatus was such that any field due to it was perpendicular to the netic field of the coils , and had , therefore , no effect on the deviation of the cathode particles .
The whole arrangement was placed so that the ) etween the earth 's horizontal ( netic field and that of the coils was .
As the ) ' * See Maxwell 's ' Electricity .
' .
P. D. Innes .
On the Velocity of the [ June 13 , horizontal field has only a value of ) , the effect of this resolved along the direction of the magnetic field will be oible .
The choice of Helmholtz coils had this further that the Bontgen could be placed inside these , and so closer to the inlet shortening the length of exposure .
If , however , tube is to be placed inside the magnetic coils , it has obviously to be turned so that the path of the discharge inside it is parallel to the lines of magnetic force , otherwise the cathode would be so much deflected by the field that it would not strike the anticathode .
Such was actually found to be the case during the experiment .
It was for this reason that the lower portion of the apparatus was turned at an of to the upper part , thus allowing the bulb to lie along the lines of force , and permitting the X rays to enter at A. When the field is turned on , the cathode particles emitted from reflector move in a circle .
They come off the plate in all dixections , but only those which come off at such an angle that their circular path due to the field can pass through the two slits will be able to reach the photographic plate ( fig. 4 ) .
If , as is nearly the case , all directions are the same , in to the number of particles eulitted , we shall get as many capable by a circular path of the photo.raphic plate as we should have if we took a pencil of particles proceeding in any one direction vertically ) , and then deviated them .
If is the velocity of particles , and the magnetic field , then , therefore where and are respectively the mass and charge of the electron , bein the radius of the circle traced out by the patl ] .
Since , as previously stated , these circular paths pass through the two slits , we have two points whose co-ordinates are given .
The third point on the path is given by the photograph and , therefore , by the deflection can fix the circle completely .
We can , of course , at once calculate , and we know H. Throughout the work I have taken to be invariable , as I assume the electrons which come under notice here to be similar to the ones usually obtained , an assumption which , as it seems to me , is quite reasonable from the results of many experiments on this quantity .
The value taken for ?
is Results .
The results obtained for the various metals with the different kinds of Rontgen rays are given in the tables .
It was found that the photographs were not dense enough to be 1neasurable by a microscope , so another 1907 .
] athode Particles emitted by llethod was adopted .
They were projected by an arc lamp ou to a sheet , with a Zeiss 10 mm. scale .
One observer sketched in the image to the dictation of another standing farther away ; then the process was rep eated , the observers being interchanged , thus eliminating the error due to the person .
The magnification was usually about 22 times .
Each plate was then 1neasured with a pair of very fine-pointed diyiders , and the results by the two methods compared .
The reement was found to be very satis- factory .
The pressure was in all the experiments less than .
of mercury measured by the McLeod gauge .
The distance ) )veen the middle points the slits was cm .
, while the raphic plate was cm .
above the upper slit .
The current in magnetic coils was amperes in case .
Table I.\mdash ; Lead .
Prints of the photographs of the aboye plates are here appended .
should remark that , as they have been intensified with nranium , and the film is somelvhat broken and , they do not print well .
The cutting of the plates , and the due to their being put into the holder , does , of course , tend to injure the film .
The negatives themselves are much .
easy to measure .
All the plates mentioned above are given here in order to fihow where they are alike and they differ .
Plates and are types of those taken under exactly similar circumstances ; and are examples of those obtained with different intensity of bulb , got by varying the distance of the bulb .
It is to be noted here that the bulb is Slightly harder , the spark gap being cm .
instead of .
; ' is one of the photographs got with much harder rays .
An exalnination of the results of shows that the varyin ] of the distance of the } bulb from the l.eflector causes practically no change in the velocity of the fastest cathode parCicles emitted , their llean velocity being greatest difference from this less than 2 per cent Mr. P. D. Innes .
On the elocity of the [ June 13 , Besides varying the distance of the bulb , means were taken to vary the current passing through it by a variation of the current in the primary of the mduction coil ; this varied from 3 amperes to 9 amperes .
No difference of velocity was , however , observed .
Then the rate of the mercury interrupter was varied , thus altering the number of interruptions of the current in unit time , but here also no change was observable .
We therefore conclude that this fastest velocity is quite independent of the intensity of the rays .
( It has not been thought necessary to give these photographs , as they are similar to the ones already given .
) When , however , we examine plate , an example of the hard ray photographs , we find a fairly large difference in the velocity of the fastest particles , amounting to about 7 per cent. This difference is quite beyond the limit of experimental error , as is shown by the agreement of the other plates .
This result is typical of all the plates taken with the hard rays .
It is interesting to compare the duration of exposure necessary in the different cases .
The farther away the bulb is , the longer is the exposure required , thus showing that the intensity does influence the number of particles given off .
An increase in the hardness of the tube has the same effect on the number e1nitted as a decrease of intensity .
I may mention that only the minimum number of confirmatory photographs were taken with very hard rays in the case of lead and also of all the other 1907 .
] Cathode Particles emitted by Various metals used , as it was in this condition that the tube most frequently " " sparked through\ldquo ; and became useless .
When we turn our attention to the velocities of the slowest particles emitted , we find that there is not such close agreement in the results obtained .
This was owing to the line being more indistinct than was the case with that due to the fastest rays , doubtless because fewer of the slow ones are emitted .
This is what we should expect , if we take the view ( which seems the only natural one ) , that the cause of the reduced velocity of these particles is that they come from a lower layer in the metal , and hence retarded in their progress to the surface .
Besides being retarded , they ] also get scattered , so that only a few of those emitted originally would emerge at the surface .
It is interesting to note , however , that the results of the various plates , though not so consistent as those of the fastest particles , are quite within the limit of error made in the measurement of the most deviated of the line in any one plate , and we can therefore say that , so far as experiment , it shows them to be the same .
It is quite evident from the atives that the line does not gradually diminish in intensity down to zero , and we therefore conclude that there does seem to be a definite minimum velocity which the particles must possess if they are to emerge .
articles with a velocity less than this minimum will get caughl and emaiu inside the metal .
Table II.\mdash ; Silver .
* 454 Mr. P. D. Innes .
On the Velocity of [ June 13 , The details have been given of only a few of the photographs taken with this metal , as to give more would merely recount many of the remarks made regarding those with lead .
The velocity , as may be seen from the typical plates and , was again independent of the intensity of the rays or the current passing through the tube and varied only with the hardness , as witness the example plate .
The plates taken under similar circumstances again agreed within about 2 per cent. , as also did those obtained with different intensities , while the hard rays gave a velocity of about 10 per cent. greater for the fastest particles .
This is more than in the case of lead , but it must be remarked that the bulb was harder with silver than with lead .
One very interesting point is that the velocities here got for the fastest particles are lower both with soft and hard rays than they were with lead , and that the differences between those got with soft rays and those with hard rays are much the same if we take into account the fact of the tube bein .
slightly harder for plate of silver than for plate of lead .
The velocities of the slowest particles are , however , of very nearly the same magnitude as those got with lead , at least there is no such marked variation , and the same remarks apply here as did to the slowest lead particles .
The long time of exposure necessary with silver is somewhat surprising in view of the fact that its atomic weight is more than half that of lead .
Here , too , it varies with the intensity and hardness of the lays .
Photographs were taken with very soft rays impinging on zinc .
The following is given as an example of the results obtained:\mdash ; Table III .
The print given by this is the accompanying one , and is seen to be rather indistinct , despite the long exposure .
The negative is of course better .
1907 .
] Partictes 'mitted by letals .
Other photographs with the same hardness and intensity confirmed this result , the differences between tlJe results being of a similar nitude to those existing for lead and silver .
The velocity is here also independent of the intensity .
It is interesting to llote , lowever , that the velocity of the fastest particles emitted from zinc have a velocity much lower than that obtained for lead or silver , the difference being about 16 per cent. if we compare it with the velocity of the lead particles when the tube was in a similar condition .
The atomic weight of zinc is , of course , The bulb having been hardened up , atte1npts were made to get a photograph , but when an exposule of seyeral hotlrs .
gave no result it was decided to pass on to other metals , especially as fears were entertained the safety of the tube when running so long in a condition .
The slowest particles have a velocity almost the same as those of silver .
Table Platiuum .
The distance between the slits was in this case cm .
, the magnetic lield beiug kept as before .
The pl'ints from these negatives are the following ones .
A curious third line appears in one of them , but as this does not -ome out in any of the others no explanation can be iven of its presence .
The results have of course been confirmed by other , those given Mr. P. D. Innes .
On the Velocity of the [ June 13 , here being printed as examples of what was Jbtained .
The print of plate apparently shows a deflected line much narrower than that occurring in the other plates .
Although this is to some extent the case , as can be seen from the results calculated by measurement of the , yet the print seems greatly to exaggerate the difference .
Here it is apparent that the velocity of the fastest particles is independent of the intensity , but does increase with increasing hardness of the .
The velocity is less than that of the lead particles , but greater than that of silver .
The difference between the results for lead and those for platinum is small , but even if the velocity does depend on the atomic weight , we should not expect a great difference , their atomic weights being so near to one another .
Lead has an atomic weight of 207 , while that of platinum is 195 .
As ards the slowest particles , an interesting point is that they seem to have much the same velocity as resulted from the other metals , if we remember the greater inaccuracy which is possible in measuring their deflection , due , as explained before , to the somewhat indistinct nature of this edge of the line .
Table Gold .
For this metal the distance between the slits was cm .
with the same magnetic field as before .
The prints are the following\mdash ; 1907 .
] rticles emitted by It is apparent from plates and thaf ] the velocity of the particles is independent of the intensity of the rays , while shows how the velocity varies with increasing hardness .
The plates confirmed in each case by others taken uuder similar circumstances .
It is at once apparent that the velocities obtained with gold are practically identical with those in the case of platinum , which is what we should expect if it depends on the atomic weight .
The same remarks apply to the est velocities as did formerly to those of platinum .
ussion of them clclsion S It will be of to compare the velocities obtained with those by Dorn , in his earlier work .
He found velocities varying from to , on the assumption that , had a value of As the value of here used is , we must reduce his restllts per cent. This would give values of about to .
Now it is to be remembered that Dorn did not trouble himself very much about keeping the hardness of his Rontgen tube exactly the same .
He himself says that " " generally rays to a parallel spark of 10 cm .
to 20 cm .
were used , and when the tube became harder than this the experiment was stopped while the tube wss softened It , therefore , be admitted that , since the velocity varies with the hardness , the .
of the present results with those of Dorn is satisfactory .
A fe weeks , just as this work was completion , a paper was published by Bestelmeyer .
* He only used one metal , , platinunl , in his experiments , and he says that the velocity varied with the hardness of the tube but not with the intensity , yet he does not mention what hardness of tube he used in the various exposures .
His results , taking to be , which is the same value as I have assumed , from to ; thus they are higher , while those of Dornl were } than the results given by me for the fastest particles emitted .
1}estelmeyer 's results for the slowest particles are practically identical with owll The most remarkable fact which arises out of the results yive in this paper is the complete sense of any of the intensity of the Rontgen rays on the velocity of the cathode particles emitted .
have seen , we may vary the current the tube , or the number of interruptions unit of of the current in the of uction coil , and no change is ) in the velocity .
) , the tube ma ) be taken farther away , but still we no change in the velocity .
Now if the ' Annalen der Physik .
' 458 Mr. P. D. Innes .
On the Velocity the [ June 13 , cathode particles are ejected by the energy of t'ne impinging ntgen rays , it is at once evident that a change is to be expected in the velocity of the emitted particles .
Let us take as the simplest case that.of an electron free to move and not held in position by other forces .
( The more complicated case of an electron maintained in equilibrium by attractive and repulsive forces can be treated by supposing*that the effective mass of the electron is increased .
) If X is the force in the pulse , and the breadth of the pulse , while ' and are respectively the change and the mass of the electron , then is the impulse acting on the electron , and we have where velocity of light is the time taken by the eleotromagnetic pulse to pass over the electron and is the resulting electronic velocity .
Now it is natural to assume that the effective mass of the electron not vary for atoms of the same element , while that the charge is invariable is proved by a large number of experiments .
If , however , we alter the position of the tube , with reference to the metallic reflector emitting the rays , keeping its hardness and intensity the same , then the breadth of the pulse will remain as before , but the force X will vary inversely as the square of the distance of the tube from the metal .
It follows , therefore , that the velocity acquired by the electron in this latter case cannot possibly be the same as in the first instance .
As was pointed out in the introduction to this paper , a gestion has been put forward that the particles got here are the free electrons occurring in the metal , and that they have been ejected by the electromagnetic energy of the rays .
If this were so , we should necessarily expect , as stated already , a dependence of the velocity of ejection on the velocity of the primary rays , and as this is not the case , we have strong evidence for the view that the expulsion of these particles is due to disintegration of the atom , and that the velocity acquired by the electron is that imparted by the energy of this disintegration .
This view receives additional confirmation if we take into account the values obtained for the velocities , , a velocity greater than cm .
per second was obtained in each case .
Now , if this velocity were derived entirely from the energy of the incident rays , it is easy to show by calculation that it could not possibly attain to this value .
For if X is the force See$J .
J. Thomson 's ' Conduction through Gases , ' 2nd edition , See J. J. Thomson 's ' Conduction through Gases , ' p. 320 .
1907 .
] Cathode Particles by in the pulse , and is the time ) the pulse to ) ttSS over the electron , then approxinlately .
the of the incident ] per is has that for the rays examined him a of about cm .
, but even if we much further , and assume which must be an upper limit , we should still get the eller(y per unit of the incident pulse to be almost a calorie .
This value we at once perceive to be far too great acceptance .
It is instructive to note that the velocity of the fastest particles omitted varies from metal to metal , .
with decreasing atomic This fact is an additional oument for the disintegration theory , it does , that there is a definite energy of disintegrating possessed by the atoms of an element .
Bumstead ilas published a the lesults of which seem to be strongly in accord with the ration theory supported ) .
He fin that the Rontgen rays , when equally absorbed by different give rise to different , effects .
This is quite in reenlent with the results given in this ) is not to be expected that the explosiun will be equally violent in all elements .
If we ssume that the velocity of the fastest emitted pal.ticles is a of the relative energy of disintegration in each metal , then , from the variation of this elocity mentioned above , we should expect to have diffe , rent euergies liberated .
Take for comparison the metals lead and zinc , which are the two used by Bumstead .
The velocity of the fastest lead icles is per second , and that of fastest zinc particles cm .
per second , if the conditions of the primary rays are nearly the same .
On the ) mentioned above , regarding the velocity and energy of explosion , we shonld say thab the energy liberated in lead would be about 1 .
in zinc .
Bumstead found that the energy in lead was that liberated in zinc .
It is satisfactory to find that .
from results , a greater amount of heat 'Ann .
Physik , ' vol. 18 , 1905 , } ) .
) ' Phil. Mag [ 6 ] , vol. ] ] , 1906 , p. 292 .
Mr. P. D. Innes .
On the Velocity of the [ June 13 , might be expected to be obtained in lead than in zinc , a l.esult obtained before umstead .
This gests that there is at least some truth in the assumption mentioned above ; it is only a suggestion , however , as so many other factors come in .
Thus the number of particles given off , i.e. , the number of explosions taking place , would naturally have a great influence , and this would , if we take into account the duration of exposure necessary for raphing , reatly increase the relative energy generated in lead .
Again , the number of particles coming from a layer too low to be emitted , whose kinetic energy is completely absorbed in the body of the metal , and which never emerge at the surface , is a factor not to be neglected ; this would naturally be greatly dependent on the number of atoms " " exploded\ldquo ; at the various depths by the Rontgen rays , as they penetrated the two metals , a number not necessarily varying directly as the energy of primary rays absorbed in each successive layer ( for , as will be discussed later , every atom of an element does not require the same amount of energy to enable it to disintegrate ) .
Hence it is not possible to get , by simple calculation , the relative amounts of the total liberated in the above metals , even if the assumption made earlier were quite true , until further investigation eveals more concerning the influencing factors mentioned above .
It is , however , interesting to find thab the results are at least qualitatively in agreement .
Barkla*has shown that the penetrating power of the secondary Bontgen rays is independent of the intensity of the primary rays , and this result certainly helps to confirm the theory of atomic disintegration .
He remarks that the fact discovered by him , that the secondary rays were never more penetrating than the primary rays , is strongly ainst any idea that atoms are " " exploded implying that if this were so , a very penetrating radiation would be produced .
This is not necessarily the case , for the corpuscles may not , in fact probably do not , derive all their velocity from the energy of the disintegration , and the greater and perhaps more penetrating part of the secondary radiation is that due to the acceleration of the corpuscles in the atom .
If this were not so , we should expect that the greater the velocity possessed by these corpuscles , the more would be the secondary radiation .
This is , , by no means the case , for , as we have seen , this velocity certainly decreases ( though comparatively slowly ) with decreasing atomic weight , whereas Barkla finds that the elements of lower atomic ( e.g. , aluminium ) the most penetratirg secondary radiation .
The fact that the velocity of the electron emitted increases with the hardness of the rays does not militate against the disintegration theory .
'Phil .
Mag [ 6 ] , vol. 11 , 1906 , p. 812 .
1907 .
] Cathode Particles titted by Professor Thomson has , in his well-known papers on the structure of the atom , shown that a reat many of the known } ) erties of tter and the resulting phenomena can be explained by an atom built up of corpuscles in rings in a sphere of positive electricity .
Now , the difference between hard and soft rays being that of different electric force and breadth of pulse , it may be the case that the hard rays are able to displace one or more of the corpuscles situated in an inner .
If this , then the repulsive forces of the atom have to act on the corpuscle and so eject it at a boreater rate .
The disintegration theory gives an explanation , too , of the decrease in the number given off with decreasing intensity of primary rays , as , the energy imparted by each pulse .
smaller , more pulses must pass over an ato1n befol'e it reaches the proper .
A similar explanation applies to the decreased emitted with hard rays which are less absorbed .
The atoms of an element will , of course , not be all in the same state .
Some will be near the exploding stage and others will be a way from it , so that we get some idea of the reason why all atoms are not ionised when struck by rays .
Again , the number of atoms in the various elelnents in the different stages of disintegration is not lecessarily the same , so different times of exposure are required .
It will be noticed that only the metals of atomic have been investigated and , from the results with zinc , it is appalent that a raphic method cannot be used with success in the case of the metals of low atomic weight .
Since Barkla finds a disappearance of ' of the rays at a certain , it seems to be of interest to on to the ation of these metals of low atomic .
An electrical method has been deyised which it is hoped will effect the investigation of these velocities .
of Rcsnlts and Conclusioms .
1 .
The velocity of the electrons emitted by lead , silver , zinc , platinum , and gold under the influence of rays has been measured , both for soft and hard rays .
2 .
The values found are as follows , the accuracy being within about per cent. :\mdash ; Soft Rays .
Lead to 7 Silver to 7 Zinc 6 to 6 Platinum 61 to 7 ' Gold to Soft Rays .
Lead to Silver to 7 Zinc 6 to 6 Platinunl to 7 ) ' Gold 0.1 to Soft Rays .
Lead to Silver to 7 Zinc 6 to 6 Platinunl to 7 ) ' Gold 0.1 to Soft Rays .
Lead to Silver to 7 Zinc 6 to 6 Platinunl to 7 ) ' Gold 0.1 to Soft Rays .
Lead to Silver to 7 Zinc 6 to 6 Platinunl to 7 ) ' Gold 0.1 to Hard Rays .
63 to 8 61 to 8 64 to 8 462 Velocity of ticles emitted by 3 .
The velocity of the fastest electrons emitted from each metal is completely independent of the intensity of the primary rays , but increases with the hardness of the tube .
4 .
The velocity decreases with the atomic weight , the difference between the speed of the fastest electron with hard rays and that with soft rays being practically the same for the various metals , if the variation in hardness of the rays is the same .
5 .
A minimum velocity is necessary to enabJ.e the electron to emerge , and the minimum velocity is nearly the same in the different metals .
6 .
number of electrons given off decreases with decreasing intensity of the rays , as well as with increasing hardness .
7 .
The number emitted also decreases with decreasing atomic weight and density .
8 .
conclusion is drawn from calculation and discussion of other theories , that the most probable theory is that of atomic yration .
It is that the velocity of the emitted electron is too reat to be that acquired under the influence of the electric force in the X ray pulse .
The other theory of ejeciion is discussed and objections to it pointed out .
A possible explanation is iven of the increase of the velocity with hardness of the rays , and this fact is shown not to be inconsistent with the disintegration theory .
It is a pleasure to me , in conclusion , to acknowledge the keen interest and ever helpful of Professor J. J. Thomson during the whole of the experiments , and I desire to tender him my most sincere thanks .

