March 4 , 1852 .
WILLIAM SPENCE , Esq. , V.P. , in the Chair .
In accordance with the Statutes , the following List of Candidates for admission into the Society was read by the Secretary : George Appold , Esq. Arthur Kett Barclay , Esq. John Allan Broun , Esq. Alexander Bryson , M.D. Rev. Jonathan Cape , M.A. Arthur Cayley , Esq. Norman Chevers , M.D. Hewitt Davis , Esq. Robert Ellis , Esq. John Hall Gladstone , Esq. Henry Gray , Esq. Rev. John Griffith .
Thomas Grissell , Esq. Wyndham Harding , Esq. John Hawkshaw , Esq. Arthur Henfrey , Esq. John Higginbottom , Esq. Robert Hunt , Esq. Edward Augustus Inglefield , Corn .
R.N. Edward Joseph Lowe , Esq. Robert Wilfred Skeffington Lutwidge , Esq. John Mercer , Esq. Hugh Lee Pattinson , Esq. Rev. Bartholomew Price , M.A. Lovell Augustus Reeve , Esq. Julius Roberts , Lieut. R.M.A. William Simms , Esq. Hugh E. Strickland , Esq. William Spottiswoode , Esq. Robert Dundas Thomson , M.D. John Tyndall , Esq. Charles Vincent Walker , Esq. Nathaniel Bagshaw Ward , Esq. CharlesYounghusband , Capt. R.A. A paper was read , entitled , " On the Anatomy of Doris .
" By Albany Hancock , Esq. , and Dennis Embleton , M.D. , Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Newcastle-on-Tyne College of Medicine , in connection with the University of Durham .
Communicated by Professor E. Forbes , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1851 .
The authors have proposed to themselves to describe the anatomy of the three genera typical of the three groups of the Nudibranchiate Mollusca .
An account of the structure of Eolis has already appeared in the ' Annals of Natural History .
' A detailed description is given of the anatomy of Doris , the following species of which have been examined , and are referred to in the paper : D. tuberculata , Auct .
, D. tuberculata , Verany , D.Johnstoni , D. tomentosa , D. repanda , D. coccinea , D. verrucosa , D. pilosa , D. bilamellata , D. aspera , and D. depressa ; but D. tuberculata of English authors has been taken as the type of the genus , and the standard of comparison for the rest .
Digestive System.-The mouth in all the species is a powerful muscular organ , provided with a prehensile tongue beset with siliceous spines , which when the tongue is fully developed , are arranged in a median and two lateral series .
Certain species possess , besides , a prehensile spinous collar on the buccal lip , occasionally associated with a rudimentary horny jaw .
The mode of development of the lingual spines is shown to be the same as that of the teeth of the Vertebrata .
The oesophagus varies in length ; in some it is dilated at the top , forming a crop ; in others it is simply enlarged previously to entering the liver mass .
The stomach is of two forms ; one , as in D. tuberculata , is very large , receiving the oesophagus behind , and giving off the intestine in front , and lying in advance of the liver ; the other is received within the mass of the liver , and is very small .
The liver in all is bulky , mostly bilobed , and variously coloured , and pours its secretion by one or more very wide ducts into the cardiac end of the stomach .
A small laminated pouch-a rudimentary pancreas , is attached in some species to the cardiac , in others to the pyloric end of the stomach .
The intestine is short , of nearly the same calibre throughout , rather sinuous in its course , and terminates in a nipple-formed anus in the centre of the branchial circle .
The Reproductive Organs are male , female and hermaphrodite .
The male organs consist of penis and testis ; the latter is connected with the former and with the oviduct .
The female organs are , ovarium , oviduct , and mucus-gland .
The ovarium is spread over the surface of the liver in the form of a branched duct with terminal ampulle .
The oviduct terminates in the mucus-gland .
The androgynous apparatus is a tube or vagina opening from the exterior into the oviduct , having one or two diverticular spermathecm communicating with it in its course .
On the right margin of the body near the front is a common opening , to which converge the three parts of the reproductive organs .
The spermatozoa are developed within large and fusiform spermatophora , and are observed in the spermathecm , oviduct and ovary .
Organs of Circulation and Respiration.-The circulatory organs are , a systemic heart , arteries , lacunve and veins .
The existence of true capillaries in the liver-mass seems probable .
A second hearta ventricle , having a portal character , is also described .
The systemic heart lies immediately beneath the dorsal skin , in front of the respiratory crown , and comprises an auricle and ventricle enclosed within a pericardium .
In the systemic circle the blood is returned to the heart without having passed through the special respiratory organ .
It is that blood only which is returned from the liver-mass that circulates through the branchiae .
The authors conclude from their observations , that in the Mollusks there is a triple circulation : first , the systemic , in which the blood propelled along the arteries to the viscera and foot is returned , with the exception of that from the liver-mass , to the heart through the skin ; there it becomes partially aerated , the skin being provided with vibratile cilia , and otherwise adapted as an instrument of respiration ; second , the portal , in which venous blood from the system is driven by a special heart to the renal and hepatic organs , and probably to the ovarium , where it escapes , dotibly venous , with the rest of the blood which has been supplied to these organs from the aorta , and which is therefore only singly venous , to the branchiae ; third , the branchial circulation , in which flows only the more deteriorated blood brought by the hepatic vein , but in which also that blood undergoes the highest degree of purification capable of being effected in the economy , namely in the special organ of respiration .
This triple circulation has not yet , as far as the authors are aware , been described as existing in the Molluscan Subkingdom .
From the fact of the blood in Doris being returned to the heart in a state of partial aeration , it is clear , they say , that this animal is , in this respect , on a par with the higher crustaceans ; and from the blood arriving at the heart in the same condition , according to the researches of Garner and Milne-Edwards , in Ostrea and Pinna , the great Triton of the Mediterranean , Haliotis , Patella and Helix , it can scarcely be doubted that this arrangement will be found throughout the Mollusca .
From a consideration of the facts cited in the paper , it may be deduced that the skin or mantle is in the Mollusca the fundamental organ of respiration , and that a portion of that envelope becomes evolved into a speciality as we trace upwards the development of the respiratory powers .
Upon the dorsal aspect of the liver-mass is a branched cavity , that of the renal organ , lined with a spongy tissue , and opening externally at the small orifice near the anus .
Organs of Innervation.-These are in two divisions , one corresponding to the cerebro-spinal division , the other to the sympathetic or ganglionic system of the Vertebrata .
The existence of the latter , it is stated , is now for the first time fully established .
The centres of the first system are seven pairs and a half of ganglia .
Of the seven pairs , five are supra-oesophageal , two , infra-oesophageal : the single ganglion belongs to the right side and has been named visceral .
There are three nervous collars around the oesophagus , one of which connects the infra .
with the supra-oesophageal .
The total number of pairs of nerves from the oesophageal centres is twenty-one , and there are also four single nerves .
The sympathetic system exists , and is more or less demonstrable , in the skin , the buccal mass , and on all the internal organs .
It consists of a vast number of minute distinct ganglia , varying in size and form , the largest quite visible to the naked eye , of a bright orange colour , like the ganglia around the oesophagus , and interconnected by numerous delicate , white nervous filaments , arranged in more or less open plexuses .
This beautiful system is connected with both sets of oesophageal ganglia .
The authors having found the sympathetic nervous system in several species of Doris , in Eolis papillosa , and in Arion ater , believe it to exist in all the more highly organized Mollusca .
The supra-oesophageal nervous centres in the Mollusca are in some instances so concentrated as to have led to the idea that they form only one mass ; in others the ganglia are more or less distinct , and separated from each other .
Doris has been taken as the representative of one class , Aplysia of the other , and on a comparison of both the supraand infra-oesophageal ganglia of these with each other , there has been found a close correspondence between them , with the exception of the visceral ganglion .
''he single one in Doris is represented in Aplysia by a pair of ganglia , situated in the posterior part of the body near the root of the branchie .
The supra-oesophageal ganglia in the Lamellibranchiata appear homologous with those of Doris .
Having determined the existence of a true sympathetic or organic nervous system in Doris , the authors feel themselves more in a position to trace a parallelism between the oesophageal nervous centres of these Mollusca and the cerebro-spinal system of the Vertebrata , and accordingly they find there is a strict analogy between them , even to the individual pairs of ganglia of which they respectively consist , the general result being that the whole of the ganglia , grouped around the oesophagus in these Mollusca , answers ' to the encephalon , and a small portion of the enrachidion , of the Vertebrata .
Organs of the Senses.-The auditory capsules are microscopic , composed of two concentric vesicles , the inner enclosing numerous , oval , nucleated otolithes .
The eyes are minute black dots , beneath the skin , attached by a pedicle to a small ganglion .
They are made up of a cup of pigment , receiving from behind the nerve , and lodging in front a lens , having in advance of it a cornea , the whole enclosed by a fine capsule .
The authors believe they have shown the dorsal tentacles to be the olfactory organs .
The organs of touch are , the general surface of the skin , but more particularly the oral tentacles or veil .
Taste is most probably located in the lips and channel of the mouth , the tongue being a prehensile organ , and ill-adapted as the seat of such a function .
In conclusion , the authors comment on the high organization of the Doride , and express their belief that the genus , as at present understood , will require to be broken up into several groups .

