On the Retinal Currents of the Frog 's Eye .
327 mena , * of which we have as yet no sufficient cognisance .
They strive to reach the generalisation of a Newton , without the numerical foundations laid by a Tycho Brahe and a Kepler .
" On the Retinal Currents of the Frog 's Eye , excited by Light and excited Electrically .
" By Augustus D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. Received and Read March 29 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) I. Introduction .
II .
Plan of experiment .
III .
Results .
1 .
A fresh normal eyeball manifests positive current , which gradually declines to zero , and becomes reversed .
2 .
On exposure to light the normal current , whether positive or negative , undergoes a positive variation .
Fm .
1 .
Nor mat response 3 .
The magnitude of the response to light increases with the duration of illumination .
Fm .
2 .
Vott 0-002 * Germ plasma and other theories are invented before we l\lt ; now fully the facts they are supposed to describe .
On the Retinal Currents of the Frog 's Eye .
4 .
The magnitude of the response to light increases with the strength of illumination .
5 .
With lapse of time\#151 ; or immediately in consequence of partial injury , the character of the response to light alters its type .
Three stages are to be recognised in accordance with the state of the retina , as ( a)fresh ; ( b)transitional ; ( c ) stale .
In the first stage the response is positive .
In the second stage the response is mixed .
In the third stage the response is negative.* Theory.\#151 ; Simultaneous opposite electrical effects are aroused in the retina by light .
6 .
The interval of time between stimulus and response is much in excess of a physiological latent period .
In the second stage this " period of hesitation " may amount to five seconds .
Fig. 3 .
7 .
Under the influence of carbonic acid the response to light undergoes diminution or abolition followed by secondary augmentation .
8 .
In consequence of tetanisation in either direction the normal current becomes strongly positive ( or less negative ) .
This positive change gradually subsides .
9 .
The positive response to light subsequent to such tetanisation is much augmented , and the negative response is diminished .
* I have made a few experiments on mammalian eyes ( cat ) , justifying the statement that the response immediately after removal is positive , and that at a later period it is negative .
Effect of Desiccation of Albumin upon its Coagulability .
329 10 .
During tetanisation of moderate strength and of whatever direction the normal current becomes positive ( or less negative ) .
This positive change gradually subsides .
11 .
Strong single induction shocks of whatever direction arouse prolonged positive after-effects , that gradually subside .
12 .
Single condenser discharges ( 2 to 10 M.F. , 1 to 7 volts ) , of whatever direction , arouse prolonged positive after-effects .
13 .
In consequence of gentle massage of the eyeball , the normal current becomes strongly positive ( or less negative ) .
This positive change gradually subsides .
14 .
In consequence of gentle massage of the eyeball , the positive response of the 1st stage gives place to a negative response ( vide supra , , 5 ) .
15 .
Fatigue\#151 ; i.e. , diminution of response by reason of previous activity\#151 ; is less pronounced in the case of the retina than in that of muscle .
It is manifested in nearly the same degree to stimulation by light , and to stimulation by tetanising currents .
16 .
The positive response to light ( 2 ) , the positive effect of tetanisation ( 10 ) , and the positive after-effect of condenser discharges ( 13 ) are suppressed by anaesthetics ( ether and chloroform ) and by rise of temperature ( to 40\#151 ; 45 ' ) .
The suppression may be permanent or temporary .
An anaesthetised like a dead eyeball tested by currents , as in 11 and 12 , manifests only polarisation currents negative in direction to the exciting currents .
Tetanisation , as in 10 , gives only polarisation effect in the direction of the break shocks negative to the direction of the make shocks .
IV .
Conclusions .
" Observations on the Effect of Desiccation of Albumin upon its Coagulability .
" By J. Bretland Farmer , M.A. , Eoyal College of Science , London .
' Communicated by Dr. H. T. Brown , F.E.S. Deceived March 21 , \#151 ; Read April 5 , 1900 .
It has been known for some time that it is possible , under certain circumstances , to expose seeds to the influence of high temperatures without thereby necessarily destroying their power to germinate .
Some experiments in this direction were conducted at the Royal Gardens , Kew , some years ago by Dr. Morris , but the results , although of much interest , do not appear to have been published .
However , the seeds were exposed to the action of boiling water , and even to a higher temperature in an oven , without losing their ability to germinate when the ordeal was over .
It has been noticed , in heating seeds in water , that if the seed-coat

