]\gt ; 1882 .
] W. Spottiswoode .
Geometrical Theore ?
.37 In the same way are determined , and then are known from the third , second , first , and original equations .
In the same way we may proceed to find the 14-pointic contact of a curve of the fourth order .
The coefficients will be expressed by series of determinants , each having eight rows and eight columns , divided by a detorminant having nine rows and nine columns .
And the same method will apply to the general case .
II .
" " Note on Mr. Russell 's paper 'On certain Geometrical Theorems .
No. 2.\ldquo ; ' By WILLIAII SPOTTISWOODE , Pres. B.S. Received May 25 , 1882 .
If we apply .
Russell 's formulae to the determination of the sextactic points of a curve , we shall have , in addition to the equations ( 1 ) , the following\mdash ; and by elimination of a and from his and ( 5 ) , together with this latter , we shall obtain as the condition for a sextactic point\mdash ; . . . .
( A ) .
But W. Spottiswoode .
Geometrical eorems .
[ May 25 , Substituting in equation ( A ) , we obtain\mdash ; Whence by obvious inductions\mdash ; .
Also Hence the equation ( B ) may also be written thus\mdash ; ( ) .
And in order to evaluate the expression it will consequently be necessary , in the first instance at least , to calculate only , . .
The main interest in the problem , howe er , lies in the determination of the degree of this equation , which has been found by Cayley and myself to be .
The difficulty lies in getting rid of the extraneous factors .
In order to effect this , the expression ( C ) must be transformed by the substitution of for Die , and other expressions to be calculated for , . .
If be the equation to the curve , and if we adopt a usual notation , and put for the first , and for the second diiferential coefficients of with respect to and ; also and similarly for higher powers , i. e. , if the operative factor is understood to affect only , precisely as if , \amp ; c. , constant ; then it is not difficult to show that\mdash ; -Dy These are the } by means of which the reduction would have to be made .

