existence of a magnetic atmosphere orer the earth where the magnetic fluid being rarefied at e } no pole and condensed at the other , occasions the polar direction Qf the laeedles of so much ** llSt ln navlgatlon VEXPERINIENT X JET improbable that this increased attraction should be owing to any chemical change itl the sSIings ; and as it was so necessary to place them right , it appeared to llle likely that whilst each particle of iron was emitting bubbles of inflammable air , and thereby increasing the perpendicular height of the filings , ffiis circumstance would prove the only cause of stlch increased attraction .
To verify this I put a quantity of filings into an earthen Yessel which covered the bottom an inch deep ; then placing them so as to draw the needle tro degrees from its meridian , I marked exactly where the vessel stood and taking it away , I mixed with the filings a quantity of salld , which raised the whole depth of the mixture to two inches ; then replacxng the lressel , I found the needle drawn above four degrees from its meridian .
Still lxlore to confirm thissJ I placed the filings below instead of above the south pole an &amp; repeated both the effervescence and ralixture of sand , and thereby caused as great an increase of repulsion as of attraction by placing them ab-ove .
Each of these-experimentsw was repeated , by placing the : vessel abolre and below thellorth pole also and the results were accor-dinglyvaried * but when small 1lailswere used instead of the filings , rlo increased attra\#171 ; ction was produced , because the nails were too heavy to be raised higher irlk the vessel , although the effervescellee was very violent ; whence I was fully convillced that this experiment depended only on raising th=e1 perpendicular height of the colurun of iron filingsv E XPE RI MEANT XV .
To obviate the suspicion that effervescelace might agitate the iron filingsv and bringa greater 1luruber of them to that $ id of the vessel which stands contiguous to the magnetic need1e , WIr .
CALTALLO repeated the experiment with sis yards of st ; eel Xwire twisted in various directions so as to be admitted into the pot ; in which casettlle tnetal presented a large surface to the acid and was not sulDject to be lnoved by the effer vescence .
On adding the diluted vitriolic acid , the needle came somewhat more thanrhalf a degree nearer to the pot After considering the influence of heat in the above experi ments , and that the motion of the needle was only half : a degree , it may reasonably be suspected to be occasiolled by the heat of the vessel : yet I think it may also be accounted for by the change of magnetism in the twisted wire ; for , after trying several times to produce this attraction , by pouring the diluted vitriolic acid on a number of bits of wrire tied to the end of a glass tube without tuZisting I could not produce any increased attraction ; at last by twisting the utire9 I succeeded to produce a degree-of attraction , nvhich I thougiat was owing to the expansion or untwisting of the wire during the effernrescence This OpilliOn was strengthened by the changes of polarity I could so easily produce ill softerled steel wire ; first by passing it through a candle by which it would acquire a very sensible polarity , according to the positioz in which it was cooled ; secondly , by s]Lightly drawing it through my lStlgers , held ill different directions in res ?
ect to the earth 's polarity ; thirdly , when a wire , three inches long vas fastened to the etldof a glass tube , and deprived of sensible polarity , by passing through a candle at right angles t the magnetic meridiarl , it vould becolne possessed of sensible po]arityl by a sl:nall blov .
with my finger on the glass tube ?
whilst held in a proper PQsition ; fourthly ?
the smallest degree of pressure betvvween my fingerss so as to bend the w^re , would give it polarity .
NowX a qualltity of harpsichord wire bent in a great number of directions wrill possess in some parts a polarity attractive , and in others repulsive , of the south pole of the needle ; and when placed in an earthen vessel , with its bottom so1neBhat above the needle , it attracts the sollth pole , first by those parts which have acquired a north polarity by bendig ; and this attraction is strewagthened by position ; and also position gives llort-lS polarity to other parts , in other respects indifferent : then , during the effervescence , the heat of the mixture dilates the wire ) and in some places thereby bellds it one vsay or other , vllicEl occasions it to acquire the magnetism of positiot &lt; , vwrhence there must sometimes result an increased attraction Froln.-r these and other experiments it appears tl:zat whenever the particles of steel ( hard enough to be capable of fixed polarity ) are by any means displaced they adrnit their natural magnetisln to bSecome rarefed and condensed by the influerlce of the earth 's magnetic atmosphere ; and thus the effect of electrical shocks oll steel wires may be explainezd : but it does llot ap ?
ear probable that the action of acils increases the magnetic attraction of iron ullless accompallied by other cir(*ulnstances to which az1 increased attraction may be more reasonably attri butedt EXPERIMENT XV 1 .
On reading Mr. CAVALLO)S experiments-on the increased attraction of iron by effervescence , Dr DARWIN WAS led to inquire3 whether inflammable air be magnetic I thereirey at his request , caused illflammable air to issue through a paper tube held near the orth and south pole of the lleedle alternately ; the air was also received in a , bladder , and applied ; but without producing any sesible effect on the needle .
In the -LXXVIth Vol ume of the Philosophical Transactions , Mr. CAVALLO has endeavoured to prove that brass { ' does not owe its magnetistn to iron- , but to some particular { ; config ; -uration of its component particles , occasioned by the " usllal method of hardening it ) which is by hamluering .
' Some bras$ , he observes , will not acquire 6C any selasible mag " rletism by hammering .
) ) And in other pieeesg -hich have often passed from the srorksl:lop to the futnacef an(l from the latter to the former , there is contained iron which renders them magnetic .
Now , since ssome hrass is ev-idently tnagtletic becatlse it contains iron , it appears to me likely that brass , whose mag netism is made sensible by hammering , colltains a smaller quantity of iron , and that hammering renders it sensible , by giving it some degree of polarity .
Therefore no brass caz acquire this property which contailas no iron .
'This will appear more evident by the following experimentse EXPERI MENT XV IIOt placed an iron nail , about tvi-o inches long , in the fires where it becatne red hot , and cooled , as the fire ntent out , ila a position east and west with respect to the magnetic meridian ; by which it became very soft , and when present:ed tc)wards the needle , it attracted or repelled according to its pov sition , having no fixect polarity .
Tlle nail was the placed upon an anvil , Bith the point directed towards the south of the magnet-ic trleridian ; and after hammering in this position till it was considerably hardened , its point possessed af sed south polarity ; the other end , bein$ thickern did not seemtohe altered .
Another nail was hammered with its pOillt tOWardStllEnOrth xvhich gave it a fixed north polarity .
The polarity of these hamlnered nails lxlight be instantly changed , by bending the pointn whilst held in a contrary position to that in which they were llatmmered .
Several oblorlg pieces of magnetic brass were hamtnered in the same mannerX and thereby made to possess a north or south polarity , accordint , to their position xvhilst hammered : hence it appears , that the general eSect of halumering is to harden the luetal , whereby it becomes in somedegree a non-conductor of magnetism , and retains that rarefied and colldensed , and therefc)re more sensible ) state of the fluid , which is produced by the influence of the earth 's mag netic atmosphere .
EXPERIMENT XV II f. In a slllall crucible I placed six tlairl plates of copper , and betwixt each of them a plate of zinc ; these being melted , and cast in a proper mould , produced an oblong piece of brass ) which was not sensibly magnetic , nor could I produce any magnetism in it by halumering .
The same quantity of copper and zinc were melted , with the addition of some small bits of iron .
This brass was very sensibly snagnetic , and , when hamsuered , acquired polarityX by which it more sensibly attracted c)r repellLed the needle .
Lastly , a piece of copErer srras melted writh the addition of some ironX which was also sensibly magnetic .
From these experiments I collclucle , that brass oNve$ sts magnetisln to iroil ; but that st may sometimes cotltain so small a quantity as not to be sensible till iRt be hammered .
The greater sensibility .
and easy construction , of a lnagnetic needle susperldesl by a spider 's thread , as above described , I hope , will contribute to extend magnetic observationsn which may in time produce a true theory of this important branch of scielace ; while the very sensible air vane9 from the same mocle of suspension , may presrent the apparent attractions and repulsions , occasioned by currents of airX from being confounded with those of magnetism .
V A fnew Sustension of the Magnettc Needle , intended for the Discovery of minute Quantities of Magnetic Attraction * also an Wir Vane of greclt Sensibility ; with new Experianents on t1Je Magraetissn of Iron Fzlings and Brass .
fie the REve A BenlaetX F. R. 5fe Commtenicated by the Rev. Sir Richard Kaye , Bart. F. R. S. Read January 26 ot9e r. lo marlifest the various degrees of attraction between magnets and ferruginous bodies , different methods have been used .
The substance to be tried has either been simply brought into contact with the magnetS or has been made to float otl water or mercury .
Needles are commonly trxade to rest horizontally on sharp-poirlted wires , and as an improvelnent on these methods , Mr. CAVALLO has suspended a needle by a chain of horse-hair , consisting of five or sis links , which move very fireely ill each other , and allow the needle to turn more than a whole revolution round its centre .
By comparing this needle with others of the best sort in use , he foutld it much more sellsible Others have suspended the lleedle by firse threads , or silk : but as thesev on turning round a few times , will cause the needle tadeviate from its meridian by twisting they are certainly objectionable .
After considering each of the aborre methods , and trying some of them in November- , 1789 , I suspended a small sewing B{DCC XC IIt M needle by means of a spidervs thread , in the cylindrical glass of my gold-leaf electrotneter ; and having satisfactorily proved its magnetic sensibility , I now venture to propose this kind of suspension as being vwrell adapted to experiments requiring the 1leedle to move with the least resistatlceO EXPERI MEANT I. From the astonishing tentlity of a spidervs thread ( see BAKER}S Microscope rtlade easyn Part II .
Ch. xxv ) it might be expected that it would bear very Much twisting , without causing the needle to be sensibly drau7n from its magiletic meridian * but to prove it more fully by direct experimentsn I first fastened a small hair to the side of the glass in which the needle was suspendedand placed it ; so that the point of the needle stood exactly 'l ?
posite to the point of the hair .
Then I turned the needle roundX by means of a magnet , about 800 timesn and on removing the magnet , I found that the need-le rested exactly opposite to the hair : thus a spider 's thread only twto inchesPlong , by twistings Soo timess did not cause any sensible deviation .
EXPER I MEANT I 1- .
A fine harpsichord wire three inches long , was suspended in a larger glass .
This wire was previously rendlered magnetic by making it redhot in the flalne of a carldle and suSering it toScool in the direction of the magnetic lueridian : whereby it acquiredpolarity by the influence of the earth 's naglletic atmosphere alone and leing softX it possessed ( as might be expected ) but a weak directive power .
The spider 's thread vas three inches long , and a small hair was fasterled lie varnish to the north pole of this wire , which ; served more accurately to distirlguish its position opposlte to a bit of ierory marked with degrees .
This wire was turned round as bofore , more than a thousand times ; yet when suffered to rest , it stood exactly at the same degree , the twist of the spider s thread having produced no sensible deviation .
EXPER tMENT II Iv A fine spider s thread was fastened to the spindle of a wheel used for spintling-flas ; the wheel was placed so that the spirldle and thread might hang perpendicularly .
To the end of the thread , which was about two inches and an half long , was fastened , by its small ]er end , one fibre of the feather of a goose-quill : the lower end of the fibre re.sted upon a book .
The wheel was turned round till the spindle had made above z8 , ooo reorolutions .
During tiliS time the spider s thead gradually beca-me about otie inch shorter , yet all this tnvisting did not cause the fibre to turn round when raised from the book .
On turnilog the spindle about Soo times more , the thread broke , apparently by twisting .
Several twisted spider s threads urere viewed by means of a very good lucernal microscope , made by hIr .
ADAMS , without being able to perceive any signs of twist , except where it was doubled , and which appeared like hairs growing out of the thread : yet the twist may be distinctly seen by the naked eye , in the sunshine in some threads to be follnd amongst trees , where the spider has probably been turned round by the wind during its descent from one lbrallch to another .
M X A : bristle was suspended horizontally by a spider 's thread somewhat stronger than the last , and after turning the wheel tilI it produced 4800 revolutions , it shortened the thread from three inches to one inch ; yet either end of the bristle would move towards any warm substance which w ?
as presented to its either with or against the direction of the twist7 EXPER I MEANT Ve Several other light substances were suspended by fine spider 's threads , and placed in a cylindrical glass about two inches in diameter , as the thinnest part of the wing of a dragon-fly , thistle down , and the dowls of dandelion ; of these , the last appeared most sensible to the influence of heat , for when this down was fastened to one end of a fine gold wire suspellded horizontally , or to one end of two bits of straw joined together in the fors of the letter T inverted , it would turn towards any person who approached it at the distance of three feet , and vould move so rapidly towards wires only heated by my hands as very much to reselnble magnetic attraction .
free Tab. II0 fig. 1t EXPERIMENT GII .
A bottle filled with cold water was brought rlear the glass cylinder , starlding itl a warm room , and soon after the down of dandelion appeared to be repelled lJy the bottle , by turning away from it .
The bottle was removed to the other side , and the daudelion again luoved towards the opposi-te side .
These attractions and reptllsionsX since they acted through glass , and at so great a distance , appeared to me at first to betlleeffects of atmospheres of heat , acting in a similar manner to those of e]ectricity ; and on slaewit2g them to a believer in animal magnetism , he was colzfident that the light substances were moved by the magnetic atmosphere of the body , and that there was a difference betwixt the attraction of the right hand and the left : but the doubts of my philosophical friends iilduced me to try the followJing experim ; ent , which fully ex plains the matter .
EXPERIMENT V11 .
A pSiece of paper was tied over the mouth of a glass jar about four inches ill diameter .
Two holes were made in the paper opposite to each other , and near the edge of the glass .
the jat was placed upon a table , and s-uffiered to stand a considerable tinze to cool in a room without fire ; I theta sat near it , on the side where one of the holes in tha paper was in the nearer , and the other in the farther end of the diameter .
I next filled anc ) there glass with smoke , and placed it with itsmouth over the two holes in the paper .
rrhe smoke was rsow seen to descend through the farthest hole , and ]nixing with the air ill the lower j-ar , plainly shewedthat the air moved slowly towards the side of the $1ass warmed by the heat of my body .
EXPER I MEANT V I-I I-e .
The last experin:lent proved , that the current of air moving towards and then ascending up the heated side of the glass might turn the broader end of the light suspended body , like the van-e of a weathercc)ck : but that it might still more de-sisively appear ta be occasioned by a current of heated air , I suspended three inches of gold wire 2 80 'f all inch thick7 hy a spider 's thtead ; about an iach of the same wire wras fastened to the middIe , and hanging perpendicularly from the place to which the thread ^ras attached , kept it in an 11orizontal pQSition whiIst undisturbed , and yet suXered it to move up and down like a scale beam , by a small degree of mtion in wthe air .
Under one end of this wire heated substarlces were introduced , which caused it to tnove upwards , seenaixlg to be repelled by them with-as much force , as it xvas attracted when they urere applied horizontally .
Having found that a spiders thread , only two inches and atl half long , when twisted by above 18 , ooo revolutions , would not cause a sensible deviation of tize magnetic needle , owing to its very great tenuity , or to its glutinous quality preventing its having any tendency to untwist ; and that light substances suspended by it , and ilaclosed in a glass , were capable of being turned about by so small a degree of heat as that occasioned by a person sitting at the distance of three feet from the instrument ; or by utires , or otluer substances , only warmed by hold ing in my hatld ; and that ; when the instrument was placed in a cool roomX a slight touch with the end of my finger would cause the wing of the dragon-fly , or even a bit of straw , to point exactly at the side of the glass which had been touched ; there could remairz tlo doubt of the freedom with which a magnetic needle would move when thus suspended : yet another experiment more directly proves its fleedom of motion to be g ; reater than that of former methods .
EXPERIMENT IX .
Six rings of horse-hair , made exactly according to MrO CAVAL : LO'S di5rection , were susperlded in a cylindrical glass jar ; to the lowest of these ringsa spodervs thread , three inches long , was attached .
This thread was fastened to a gold wire twisted roulad the middle of a small sewing needle .
The jar was placed with its mouth downwards , and over the edge of a table , the needle hanging a little lower .
After the needle and rings of horse-hair were perfectly at rest , the point of the needle was struck with the endof my finger , which caused it to turn round very swiEtly , yet this twisting did not move tl\#162 ; e rings of horse-hair .
At1 harpsichord wire , twenty-one inches long , was suspended by ten spWiders threads , to the lowest ring of the horse-hait chain ; this was alsofrequently turned rouIld vsrithout moving the rings .
A wire of this length wras afterwards suspended by spider 's threads in a proper frames and with an ivory scale of degrees , with all intention to observe the-daily variation ; but it was toosnuch influenced ky heat , which I have not yet been able to obviatee E XPE Rl-M ENT x. To the end of a fine gold wire , three inches long , and sus^pended by a spider 's thread in a cylindrical glass , was fastened a small circular bit of +vriting paper ; light wTas adtnitted through a small h(3le and also the focus of a large lens vas thrown upon the paper , with the intention of observing when there it w-oultl be moved by the impulse of light : but though these experim-ents were often repeated , and ollce with the paper suspended in an exhausted receiver , yet I could not perceive any motion distinguishable from the effects of heat .
Perhaps sensible heat and light may not be caused by the in flux or rectilineal projections of fine particles : but by the vibrations made ill the universally dffivlsed calorlc or matter of heat , or fluid of light .
I thi:ak lmodern discoveries , especially those of electricity , favour the latter hypotnesisv EXPERIMENT X r.\hen cold wires are introduced within the ; lass jary and near the light suspended sulJstances , as bits of straw , or vefy fine wires , a very slight motion of the introdaaced substa ; -ces pushes the suspended wires at the distance of an inch , appearing like repulsion , but a contrary motion draws them ratarer ; therefore it may be attributed to the moti3n of the air Silso , when a spider 's thread , without any thing attached to it , is suspended in a-dry glass jar , it recedes from the electriG atluo sphere of an excited glass tube brought suddenly near the cyutside of the glass jar , whether the tube be positi^sttely or ngatively electrified 3 and when the tube is suddenly re ; @tl-3ved1 ) the thread is drawn after it .
This may be accounted for by the difficulty with which the spidervs thread changes its sate of elec tricity , being a very imperfect conductor ; wlnence also , notwith standing its extreme fineness , it is Ullfit to be used as an elec trometer .
EXPERIMENT XII .
It is indispensibly necessary that a magnetic rueedle , intended for the d ; scovery of millute quantities of magnetic attraction , should be enclosed in a proper apparavus , that the 1notion of the air nay n-ot disturb it , and that the substances to be tried may be brought sufficiently near , and at right angles with the point of the needle .
The following instrument was cons-tructed for this purpose , and is submitted to the approbation of those who are desirous of lxaking further improrrement$ ln the science of magnetism .
In fig. e. A is the bottom of the instrurzlent , M inches square , and one inch thicks to lie horizontally on the table and made of mahogany .
13 }3 is a fratne of the same vrood , standing vertically on the middle of the square bottonl , 62 inches high and g2 broad .
On one side of the frame a piece of glass is { ixed , and a piece of writing paper gold heaters skin , or other thin substance ls pasted to the edge of the fratne otl the other sides so that the glass and the paper statld vertically arad parallel to each other , at the distance of about half an inch , which is sufficient room for the needle ?
hanpkag by a spider 's thread from the scrent at C , which screwpasses though the top piece Dn which drops into an opening cut through the frame , and may be taken out by means of the knob of the screw at E. About lo degrees of a circle are marlied upon a bit of ivory fastened to the edge of the frame at Fs and the needle , three inches lotlg , is made of the smallest steel harpstchord wire , and is suspended by a spider 's thread also three inches lorlg .
A small tapering-llair , fasteneel to the north pole with varnish , and extending about 8 'f an ialch farther than the end of the wire , points at the degrees on the ivory , so that its motion may be very accurately distinguished and especially by the use of a lens .
Roulld the middle &lt; ?
f the -zeedIe a small gold wire is twisted , and its end stalld ing perpendicularly is fastened to the spider 's thread , to keep the needle in a horizontal position .
The lnetllod of obtainil:zg and fastening the spider 's threads which I have used , is this : I take a forked stick , consisting of a stem and turo or three branches , standingo at about six ilaches asulader at their etlds , and after finding a pr(3per thread } in the corns o ; f a building ) or amongst trees , the ends of the stick are smeared with varnish and each end applied to the thread : snJhich being thrned round theends of the stick may be brought away : or several fbrked sticks may be placed in a tootn , where spiders are not disturbel and they utill soorl attach their threads to them When the thread is in this manner extoended betrhteen the branches , the sticli is placed llpON the edge of a table , and itl the sunshine , if possible , that it may be ill a convenient posi- &gt; tion for attaching it to the 1leedle and screw , by hich it is to hang .
The gold wire al3ove mentioned is then dipped in varnish , and applied to one etld of the spidervs threads so as to entangle it in the varnish , which soon drying , the thread becomes fastn and-may be $uSered to hang down , the upper nd of thetthread being yet fast to the forked stick .
The pOillt of the screw in the top piece is then dipped in varnish , and the upper end of the thread attached to it in the same manner .
Lastly , the needy is gradually lowered through the opening in the top o\#163 ; the instraament , till it hangs oppositef to the marked ivory : but if the thread be too long , it is easily shortened by liiSting up the top piecea touching the end of the screw with varnish } and turning it rounct , so as to wind the thread alvout its till it will hallg near the edge of the ivory : but to set the point of the hair at the -end of the needle : at a more exact distance , after the top piece is replacedls the screwt isturned by its knob E , which raises or lowers the needle till it hangs right .
A seconkl method of raising or lc &gt; ^ntering the lleedles ^7ith less trouble in the construction , is to use as snl ; all brass .
wire illsteact of the screv , which may pass through a corli ; or rlae ivory illdex may be made to rise and fall by means of a screw .
If both sides of the instrulneIlt be niade of glass , ik may be filled with some tran-spa-l*-ent fuid , wlli\#162 ; h ^zill laot cause the metal to rusts as spirit of wine , or oil of turpentine , that the needle may move more steadily , and llot be sensibly influenced by heat .
Expedients for rendering the instrtlment more portable might be easily contrived : but I hope no unprttldiced philosopher will pronoullce it useless , because the spider 's thread , which is so easily replaced , may break ; for sensibility is the only property of essential use in discoveries whereitl a small degree of magnetic attraction is to be ascertained .
EXPERIMENT XlII .
The first use I made of my needle suspended as above , sras to try the polarity of several iron utensils ; andn as might be expecteda they attracted or repelled the north erld of the needy , according to their position with respect to the magnetic atmosphere of the earth .
A bar of soft irotln half an inch square , and nirle inches long , luoved the needle very sellsibly at the -distatlee of about three feet ; longer bars moved it at a much grear distance ; and if a bar was held horizontally near the end d the needle , and at ri ; ht angles it might be made either to attract or repel , by moving it up or down only half an inch7 so as to appear to change its attraction to repulsion at command ; which has surprised persons unacquainted with the mportance c3f position with respect to the earth 's magnetix -atmosphere .
This polarity of position may be very sensibly perceived by presenting small nails or smaller bits of wire , above or below the needle , or with the remote end inclining tonvards the llortla or south ; which plainly demonstrates the N e

