A paper was also read , entitled , " On the Quantity and Quality of the Gases disengaged from the Thermal Spring which supplies the King 's Bath , in the City of Bath .
" By Charles G. B. Daubeny , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
The author , pursuant to an intention expressed in a former paper read to the Society , undertook a series of experiments , for the purpose of measuring the gas evolved from the thermal springs at Bath during a period of time sufficiently long to enable him to determine with tolerable precision its average amount , and to ascertain whether any great diurnal variations in its quantity can be detected .
He also kept during the same period a corresponding register of the conditions of the atmosphere , as to temperature , humidity and pressure , in order to learn whether any connexion could be traced between these conditions and the quantities of gas evolved .
The supplies , both of water and of gas , from the Hot Bath and the Cross Bath being insignificant compared with those from the King 's Bath , the author confined his inquiries to the last of these , and chiefly to the gas arising from the apertures within its central area , which is about twenty feet in diameter ; the other apertures without this circle from which gas issued being carefully stopped up .
The gas was col ?
lected by a funnel-shaped apparatus , constructed of several sheets of iron riveted together , and the seams rendered airtight by white lead , supported on a frame , with contrivances for raising and lowering it as occasion might require .
The observations were made during periods of from five to fifteen minutes , and continued daily from the 17th of September to the 18th of October inclusive .
The average quantity of gas evolved per minute , as deduced from the mean of all the observations , is 267 cubic inches , giving a total daily volume of 223 cubic feet .
The author , by referring to the accounts on record of other thermal waters , concludes that the evolution of gas is a phenomenon as intimately connected with the constitution of these waters , as the pre ?
sense of a definite quantity of certain saline ingredients , or the possession of a particular temperature ; both of which probably continue unaltered for periods of indefinite duration , compared with the records of any human history .
He considers this phenomenon to be explicable , by supposing that a large volume of these gases is pent up in some cavern of rock , at a great depth below the surface of the earth , which , at some former period , had been heated by volcanic action , and which , by the gradual cooling and consequent contraction of its external portions , exerts a continued pressure on the gaseous contents of its cavity , and determines the uniform flow of a stream of gas through crevices towards the surface .
It appears from the observations of the author that the quantities of gas disengaged , in a given time , from the King 's Bath are some ?
what variable ; for the differences between the results obtained on successive days are too considerable to be ascribed either to errors of manipulation or to variations in the amount of gas escaping by other avenues .
These fluctuations in quantity cannot be traced to have any connexion with those of the atmospheric pressure .
Varia ?
tions likewise were observed in the proportional quantities of carbonic acid contained in the gas evolved at different times , which latter vari ?
ations the author thinks may perhaps be dependent on the former .
The author remarks , in conclusion , that the immensity of the volume of nitrogen gas which is disengaged from these thermal springs , and the entire absence of carburetted , sulphuretted and phosphuretted hydrogen , seems to afford additional presumption against the truth of the opinion that the nitrogen gas which escapes from volcanoes G and from these springs is derived from atmospheric air , held in solution by the water , and deprived of the greater part of its oxygen by animal and vegetable putrefaction .
He is disposed to ascribe the deficiency of oxygen to some process of combustion , during which it unites with some base , forming a compound not easily volatilized by heat ; and to account for the presence of carbonic acid , by the calcination of earthy carbonates , rather than by the combustion of coal or bitumen .

