II .
" On the Influence of Temperature on the Electric Conducting Power of the Metals .
" By A. MATTHIESSEN , Esq. , F.R.S. , and M. VON BosE .
Rleceived December 5 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) In the first part of the paper we have described the apparatus used for the experiments , together with the precautions taken to ensure correct results ; in the second we have given the results obtained with the pure metals-silver , copper , gold , zinc , tin , arsenic , antimony , bismuth , mercury-and the metalloid tellurium .
The conducting power of the wires , or bars of each , was determined at about 12 ?
, 25 ?
, 40 ?
, 550 , 70 ?
, 85 ?
, and 100 ?
C. ; and from the mean of the eight observations made with each wire ( four at each temperature on heating , and four on cooling ) , we deduced a formula by the method of least squares for the correction of the conducting power for temperature .
It was found that the conducting power or resistance of a metal does not decrease or increase in direct ratio to the temperature , as stated by Becquerel* , Arndstent , and Siemens , who assume that the formula for the correction of resistance for temperature between 0 ?
-1000 may be expressed by X=x+yt , but that , on the contrary , the formula must be X=w+yt+ yt2 , where X is the resistance at t degrees , x the resistance at 0 ?
, and y and y constants .
One fact seems to have escaped the observation of former experimenters , namely , that when a wire of a metal is heated for the first time to 100 ?
and again cooled , an alteration in the conducting power takes place ; with most metals it is necessary to heat them for several days before their conducting power becomes constant .
In the third part we have deduced from the results obtained , the law that all pure metals in a solid state vary in conducting power to the same extent between 0 ?
and 100 ?
C. In cases where very great accuracy is required , it is absolutely necessary to experiment on the conductor itself ; for we have found almost the same differences between formulae obtained for wires of the same metal as between the mean of those deduced for the different metals .
This behaviour may be attributed to the fact that the molecular arrangement is not the same even in wires of the same metal ; for we find that copper wires , when kept at 100 ?
for several days , behave very differently from each other : thus , in the case of the three copper wires experimented with , wire 1 increased in conducting power almost to the same extent as if it had been annealed , wire 2 partially so , and wire 3 hardly at all .
With bismuth , wire 1 increased its conducting power 16 per cent. ; wire 2 , 19 per cent. ; and wire 3 , 12 per cent. Again , in the case of cadmium , which becomes quite brittle and crystalline at 800 ( for cadmium may be powdered in a hot mortar ) , we found the formula for each wire very different .
On the other hand , the formula of the wires of those metals which , after being kept at 100 ?
for some time , show a very slight or no alteration in the conducting power on again being cooled , agree very closely with each other .
Compare those of lead , tin , and mercury .
Metalloids conduct electricity better when heated than when cold .
Iittorf* proved this to be the case with selenium .
Gas-coke and graphitet , and the gasesS , follow the same law .
Tellurium , when first heated to 70 ?
or 80 ?
C. , behaves as a metal , that is to say , it loses in conducting power up to that temperature , when it then begins to gain .
The temperature of the turning-point becomes lower after each day 's heating , until , as with the first and third bars experimented with , it is below the lowest temperature at which observations were made .
Taking the first observed conducting power of each bar -=100 , we found that the conducting power of bar 1 had decreased after thirteen days ' heating to 4 , where it then remained constant ; that of bar 2 , after thirty-two days , became constant at 19 ; and that of bar 3 , after thirtythree days , at 6 .
With bar 2 the conducting power decreased up to 29 ?
'4 , when it began again to increase .
The behaviour of tellurium is therefore intermediate between that of the metals and that of the metalloids .

