468 The Pharmacology of Indaconitine and By .J .
Theodore Cash , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Wyndham R Dunstan , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. ( Received May 24 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) The present paper deals with the physiological action of two new " aconitines , " which have been isolated at the Imperial Institute from two varieties of Indian aconite .
One is an alkaloid , which has been named indaconitine .
It was found in the roots of the Indian aconite , called by Bruhl , Aconitum napellus , var .
hians , since identified by Stapf as a new species , which has received the name of Aconitum chasmanthum .
Aconitum chasmanthum being abundant in India , the highly toxic alkaloid derived from this plant has been called " indaconitine , " a name appropriate to the properties of this alkaloid , which closely resemble those of aconitine derived from the common European aconite , Aconitum napellus .
The other alkaloid has been named " bikhaconitine , " being derived from one of the highly poisonous forms of aconite known in India under the vernacular name of " Bikh .
" This aconite was named by Bruhl , Aconitum ferox , var .
spicatum , but has been re-named Aconitum spicatum by Stapf , who regards it as a distinct species .
The chemistry of these two alkaloids , which has been fully worked out at the Imperial Institute , will be described by one of us in a separate communication .
It will be sufficient to allude here to the leading chemical characters of the two substances .
Indaconitine differs only slightly from aconitine in its composition and properties , but in several respects these differences are well marked .
Indaconitine crystallises well , but its usual crystalline habit is distinct from that of aconitine , although the crystallographic characters of the two substances are very similar , and they may prove to be isomorphous .
Most of the salts crystallise readily , and the hydrobromide has been employed for , the study of the physiological action of the alkaloid .
Like aconitine , indaconitine undergoes hydrolysis in two stages .
Partial hydrolysis leads to the separation of a molecule of acetic acid , and the formation of a base which has been named benzoyl-pseudaconine .
This substance on further hydrolysis furnishes one molecule of benzoic acid , and a base which proves to be identical with pseudaconine , the ultimate hydrolytic product of pseudaconitine derived from forms of Aconitum , the chemistry and pharmacology of which have been described in previous Pharmacology of Indaconitme and papers .
Indaconitine therefore contains the acetyl and benzoyl groups present in aconitine of European origin , associated with the basic nucleus of the Indian pseudaconitine .
Its pharmacology as described in the present paper corresponds with its chemical relation to these two alkaloids .
Bikhaconitine closely resembles pseudaconitine , but is chemically distinct from it .
The alkaloid and its salts crystallise well .
Similarly its derivatives somewhat resemble those of pseudaconitine , but are distinct substances .
On partial hydrolysis bikhaconitine furnishes one molecule of acetic acid and veratryl-bikhaconine , which on further hydrolysis furnishes one molecule of veratric acid and bikhaconine .
Bikhaconitine is therefore , chemically , the analogue of pseudaconitine , and is also its pharmacological congener .
It is only slightly inferior in toxic power to pseudaconitine , which is the most poisonous aconitine yet examined .
The examination of the physiological action of indaconitine and bikhaconitine has been carried out on parallel lines with that of the alkaloids aconitine , pseudaconitine , and japaconitine , which have been previously discussed.* In each case the hydrobromide was the salt employed .
It is proposed here to give very briefly , often in form of synopsis , the main results arrived at , including the dosage which is associated with a lethal action .
Indaconitine will be first considered .
Indaconitine .
Effect upon Blood-Pressure , Pidse , and Bespiration of Anaesthetised Animals { Gats and Rabbits ) .
There is a striking similarity with the effects produced by parallel doses of aconitine ( from A. napellus ) .
The phases of slowing of the pulse ( with or without a slight anterior acceleration ) marked quickening , and subsequent arhythmia , due to incoordinate action of auricles and ventricles , are all present , whilst similar changes in the blood-pressure , culminating in the rapid and extensive fluctuations so characteristic of aconitine , are occasioned also by indaconitine .
Under ether there is little ( 1/ 6 to 1/ 5 ) or none of the primary acceleration of respiration which usually occurs in non-etherised animals ( see later ) , but a gradual slowing , and eventually a failure of effective respiratory movements is witnessed , this condition speedily leading to a fatal issue if vigorous artificial respiration is not employed .
Vagus section and stimulation have a similar result during the toxic conditions occasioned by aconitine and indaconitine respectively , the acceleration of cardiac action , and the more effective systole due to a closer * See 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 190 , 1898 , and abstract in 'Proceedings , ' vol. 62 ; 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 195 , 1903 , and abstract in 'Proceedings , ' vol. 68 .
Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. R. Dunstan .
[ May 24 , sequence of ventricular upon auricular action , with a resulting rise in the pressure being observed on stimulating during the stage of cardiac irregularity .
The proportion of indaconitine capable of producing such results was O'OOll gramme per kilogramme and upwards , administered hypodermically in a single dose .
When one-half of the lethal proportion ( per kilogramme ) was repeated at intervals of 45 ' , the third dose was followed in rabbits by great irregularity of the pulse , wide fluctuations in blood-pressure , and rapid decline in respiratory frequency .
The long inspiratory pause , with the forced effort at its commencement , became more marked as the toxic action progressed .
This proportionate dose repeated twice at intervals of 45 ' may prove lethal , though this is an exceptional occurrence .
No estimation was made of the lethal dose of indaeonitine for non-ansesthetised cats , but taking the proportion as 04)0012 which is applicable to rabbits , it was found that half this dose , administered hypodermically and repeated every 45 ' , was followed by death in etherised cats about 70 ' after the third injection .
The effects were thus developed:\#151 ; After First Injection.\#151 ; Acceleration ( transitory ) and slowing of the pulse .
Moderate fall of arterial pressure .
Slight acceleration followed by slowing of the respiration .
After Second Injection.\#151 ; Continued slowing of the pulse .
Thereafter acceleration .
Blood-pressure fairly steady .
Further slowing of the respiration .
Usual results of peripheral vagus and splanchnic stimulation .
After Third Injection.\#151 ; Irregularity of the pulse increasing as time progressed .
The heart greatly accelerated , attaining 200 per minute .
Immediately before death , and when the blood-pressure amounted to 28 mm. of mercury , the rhythm became regular .
In the earlier part of this period , vagus stimulation co-ordinated the action of the auricles and ventricles , temporarily raising the blood pressure , but this effect was lost later .
Splanchnic reaction was never entirely abolished .
The respiration , at first very slow but effective , became weaker and was suspended .
Artificial respiration served to prolong life for over 20 ' .
The tracings ( Ai\#151 ; 3 ) are taken from an experiment in which registration of carotid pressure and contraction of the left auricle and ventricle were taken simultaneously .
Ai .
Before injection .
A2 .
50 ' after the third injuction of 0'5 lethal dose of indaconitine .
( The injections occur every 45 ' .
) A3 .
70 ' after the third injection , and 5 ' before death .
1905 .
] Pharmacology of Indaconitine and 50 mins , after third injection of one-half of lethal dose of indaconitine .
Before injection .
JL Ventricle " YAl ^ITV'V-y A.1 .
70 mins , after .
5 mins , before ex. leth .
that which has been described as existing between atropine and aconitine .
Not only is the irregularity of the pulse reduced ( the heart being slowed and the sequence of ventricular action restored ) , but the blood-pressure is increased and steadied , whilst the respiration , which may have been abolished as an effective function , is rapidly reinstated , the original speed being attained or approached .
In the following experiment ( Bi ) , injections were made by the femoral vein of an setherised cat of repeated small doses of indaconitine .
In 50 ' a proportion of 0'00016 gramme per kilogramme had been totalled ; irregularity of the heart was present , and respiration was represented only by Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. R Dunstan .
[ Hay 24 , an occasional and inefficient movement , rendering articial insufflation necessary .
In the following 25 ' an additional injection of 0-000022 indaconitine was made ( B2 ) .
Five minutes later the heart was beating very rapidly ( over 300 ) and irregularly ( 36 impulses per minute in the carotid ) , whilst the blood-pressure was falling so fast that a lethal issue was obviously impending .
Injection of 0'006 gramme of atropine sulphate was now made by the femoral vein , and the serious symptoms soon began to abate , so that 20 ' later carotid pressure was 56 min. , carotid impulses ( though very irregular ) 77 , and respirations 15 per minute .
During the succeeding 25 ' further injections of atropine sulphate amounting to 0*0089 gramme were made ; the pulse remained irregular , and often bigeminal in character ; pressure 65 mm. , and respirations 50 per minute ( B3 ) .
A further injection of 0-004 gramme of atropine restored the regular beat of the pulse to 154 per minute , the pressure rising ijf [ ft let ion k i , i I is Complete antagonism by atropine .
Partial antagonism by atropine .
Time , 5 secs .
to 96 ( B4 ) .
Thus the effects of indaconitine , amounting to 0 000182 gramme of the alkaloidal salt per kilogramme , were fully antagonised by 0"018 gramme 1905 .
] Pharmacology of Indaconitine and BiJchaconitme .
473 of atropine sulphate ( 0*01 per kilogramme ) in the course of 65 ' .
The pulse and pressure having remained steady for a period of 40 ' , the interrupted injections of indaeonitine were resumed , when it required no less than 0 00027 gramme per kilogramme ( administered in the course of 50 ' ) to reproduce a distinct aconitine effect .
It is probable , therefore , that atropine had been used in excess of the antidotal equivalent required by the original indaconitine injection .
Action of Indaconitine on Rabbits .
A single hypodermic injection of 0-00008 gramme per kilogramme of indaconitine produced acceleration of the respiration , then slowing of respiratory rhythm to one-half or thereabouts of the original rate , salivation , dilatation of the pupil and a fall of rectal temperature amounting to about 1-5 ' C. These effects were transitory , as salivation lasted for less than 30 ' , whilst respiration had returned to , or nearly , to the original , and the temperature was beginning to recover 90 ' after injection had been made .
O'OOOll.\#151 ; Sharp acceleration of respiration succeeded by slowing to 14 or 16 per minute .
Salivation ushered in by active chewing and retching movements .
Early pupillary dilatation .
Marked dyspnoea , with some retraction of thorax on inspiration ; occasional dyspnoeal spasm .
Moist large crepitations in air passages .
Much paresis of limbs .
The total fall of temperature amounted to between 2 and 2-5 ' C. The symptoms were abating in 110 ' .
0-00012 per kilogramme.\#151 ; Transitory respiratory acceleration followed by great slowing .
Salivation and dilatation of the pupil in 15 ' .
Considerable paresis and respiratory spasm .
Death occurs in 50 ' to 60 ' .
Lethal Dose\#151 ; Although an occasional lethal result may follow doses of the indaconitine salt proportional to 0*0001 per kilogramme , it is not until one-fifth more is given that the result becomes almost invariable .
The lethal relationship stands accurately at 0"00012 gramme per kilogramme\#151 ; only once has this dose been exceeded , with a different issue .
Repeated Administration of Indaconitine.\#151 ; On Temperature and Respiration .
Indaconitine causes an acceleration of respiration immediately after injection of doses of one-third of the lethal proportion and upwards , especially if the original respiratory rhythm had been less than 60 per minute , but if the original rate is twice as rapid , then there may be an absence of acceleration .
The tendency to acceleration becomes less as the proportion of aconitine becomes smaller .
In all cases , whether there be a primary rise or not ( after one-third of the lethal and upwards ) , a fall in the respiratory rate follows injections of indaconitine .
This may amount to one-half of the original , after a dose of one- Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. R. Dunstan .
[ May 24 , half of the lethal , or a reduction to from one-quarter to one-fifth after five-sixths of the lethal .
In the latter case the movements are distinctly dyspnceal , retraction of the chest wall , fixation of the thorax and relative prolongation of the inspiration being present .
The acceleration which sooner or later succeeds to this slowing ( the dose being sub-lethal ) is often to a rapidity of rhythm much beyond the original .
This is more particularly the case when doses of about half lethal are given than when the proportion is larger .
The acceleration occurs earlier in the course of readministrations of indaconitine than after equivalent doses of bikhaconitine .
Eepeated Administration of Indaconitine at Stated Intervals to Babbits .
Effect on Temperature and Bespiration .
Fraction of lethal proportion per kilo , body weight .
When re- peated .
How often .
Total proportion to the lethal .
Greatest fall of temperature ( C. ) .
Subsequent course of temperature .
Note on respiration .
mins .
i 45 7 u lC-0 Greatest reduction after second injection .
Thereafter broken rise .
60 6 1-0 0*9 Greatest after second injection .
Greatest after fifth in 45 8 2-0 2*3 Eventual acceleration jection , when broken of respiration , more rise ensues .
rapid than in case of bikhaconitine .
) ) 60 6 1 *5 1-2 h* ( Diag .
A ) 45 3 1 *5 3-8 Greatest after third Eespiration reduced " ( Diag .
A ) injection .
In 420 ' is still -1 ' C. to 13 per minute .
Eises with the temperature .
90 3* 1 5 2-8 Greatest after second 120 injection .
i ) 3 1-5 1-6 Greatest after first " ( Diag .
A ) injection .
180 2 10 1-0 Eise of 0*7 ' C. Fall greatest after first " ( Diag .
A ) 240 2 1 -o 1 " 2 injection .
Greatest after first injection .
* Such , administrations ( 0 '5 lethal twice repeated at intervals of 45y ) were made in three experiments , in one of these with lethal result ( see p. 470 ) .
Toxic Action of Indaconitine in Progressive Doses towards Frogs .
0'0006 gramme per kilogramme weight of R. temporaria .
Some excitement ( soon subsiding ) after injection .
No marked impairment of reflexes .
Acceleration of respiration succeeded by slowing .
Diagram A. Time ( in minutes ) after injection .
15 ' 30* 4$ ' 60 ' 75* 9Q ' IQ5 ' 120 ' 135 ' *50 ' 165 ' i8o ' 135 ' ZIP ' 225 ' 2*o ' 255* 27Q ' 3QQ ' 315 : 330 ' 345 ' 360* 375 ' 390 ' 405 ' 420 ' .5 lethal every 45 ' ( 3 doses ) .
\#187 ; \#171 ; 90 ' ( 5 doses ) .5 lethal every 180 ' \lt ; 2 doses ) 240 ( 2 doses ) Effect of Indaconitine on the Internal Temperature of Rabbits .
Administrations are indicated by the mark \#169 ; .
o o S a* \lt ; S\gt ; .
Ct\gt ; a s Si- to is* ?
3* Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. R. Dunstan .
[ May 24 , 0-0009.\#151 ; Considerable excitement with irregularity of reflexes in limbs and inability to assume ventral position when placed on dorsum .
The lungs are in the main widely inflated ; respiratory movements occasional .
0-0012.\#151 ; After initial excitement with frothing there is slowing and suspension of respiration\#151 ; gaping .
Reflexes much impaired and very uncertain .
Prolonged inability to get off dorsum .
Recovery not complete for five days .
0-0013.\#151 ; This is a hyperlethal proportion .
After excitement there is rapid failure of voluntary movement .
Reflexes are diminished and uncertain in half an hour after injection .
Respiration , after brief acceleration , is slowed and abolished .
Heart 's action becomes incoordinate .
If death occurs ( from cardiac failure ) in five to six hours , some reflex may occasionally be elicited even when circulation has ceased , but if the lethal issue is postponed till some hours later , the limb reflexes disappear first , the body being limp and flaccid .
The ventricle shows characteristic sacculations containing blood .
The gastrocnemius is excitable to direct stimulation , usually the response to indirect stimulation is impaired .
The lethal dose of indaconitine varies in different seasons of the year .
For R. temporaria in June and July a proportion of 04)0120 gramme per kilogramme was lethal on several occasions , and the proportion of 0 00125 , which may be regarded as the lethal , was only twice exceeded ( 00014 and 0'00145 ) with subsequent recovery .
Action of Indaconitine upon the Cardiac Rhythm.\#151 ; Lethal and slightly hyperlethal doses of indaconitine cause acceleration of the heart of brainless frogs , amounting to from four to eight beats per minute .
The acceleration may be progressive after injection , or may be preceded by slight slowing ( two to three per minute ) .
After a duration , which varies largely according to the dose , acceleration passes into irregular rhythm with incoordinate action , the ventricle being chiefly affected .
It is after this condition has lasted for a time that the characteristic " pouching " of the ventricle is produced by indaconitine , as it is by all the aconitines hitherto examined in this research .
Subsequently , after lethal doses , a progressive slowing and enfeeblement of the ventricular beat occurs , until spontaneous action ceases .
At this time the auricles are beating with some degree of regularity at a rate of 10 to 16 per minute .
Local application of atropine restores spontaneous contraction of the ventricle to some extent .
Perfusion of Frog 's Heart.\#151 ; The main results of the perfusion of the separated ventricle by weak doses of indaconitine , are to increase excitability , accelerate the rhythm , and favour the occurrence of group beating .
Large doses 0'0004 to 0'0006\#151 ; produce rapid deterioration in the strength and 1905 .
] Pharmacology of Indaconitine and Bikhaconitine .
illk V H Tug .
, J iisia .
\#171 ; a| sslotf oalljifj iiji^ ijlei iteii\#174 ; III .
iff im il# rat\#174 ; :\#171 ; otfe M dir ; sitw tin* ' :d|j \amp ; duration of the systole , but as an early effect , the excitability was increased , spontaneous contractions often appearing after perfusion by indaconitine , whilst no such effect had followed from the use of the simple nutrient fluid .
The weakened and rapid beat of indaconitine is rendered slower and stronger when atropine solution is substituted .
Action on Respiration.\#151 ; After temporary acceleration , slowing of the respiratory movements accompanied by periodical wide inflation of the lungs , follow medium doses of indaconitine , the flank movements being more obviously slowed than those of the hyoid .
A proportion of 0-0006 to 0-0008 per kilogramme , whilst having such an effect , does not arrest the respiration , but with a proportion of , and above 0-001 per kilogramme , entire suspension of respiration may ensue , so that when the lethal dose is nearly reached , an absence of respiratory movement ( obvious and registrable ) may be observed for 24 hours or more .
This condition may be coincident with some retention of reflex in the limbs .
Before the animal resumes its power of regaining the ventral position when placed on the back , there is some return of respiratory movement .
Hyperlethal doses up to 0-0025 gramme per kilogramme will abolish respiration in from 30 ' onward according to their extent .
The last evidence of some activity in the respiratory mechanism is elicited by cutaneous stimulation , and especially by placing the frog on the dorsum .
Action on Reflex.\#151 ; Sensory depression at the periphery is somewhat less powerful in the reflex ( brainless ) frog , under the influence of indaconitine , than it is under aconitine when equal proportions are given .
Otherwise the general character of the effect is similar .
Reaction of Nerve Muscle Preparation.\#151 ; These experiments were conducted upon brainless frogs , in some , vascular ligature being previously applied to one leg .
The dose used was in proportion to the total weight of the frog , irrespective of the parts excluded from the circulation .
Experiments.\#151 ; Rana esc .
with brain destroyed received 0'00200 gramme of indaconitine per kilogramme .
In five hours , the circulation having completely ceased 90 ' previously , the nerve stimulated at 43 cm .
, the muscle at 16 , yielded contraction of the muscle .
Maximal stimulation , both direct and indirect , gave a series of fair contractions .
R. temporaria ( brain destroyed , left vascular ligature ) received the large proportion of 0-024 per kilogramme .
In 80 ' ( heart arrested ) minimal excitability , nerve 43 , muscle 23 cm .
If after poisoning by a large dose of the alkaloid , the preparation of the uerve be delayed for 24 hours , a great reduction in excitability is witnessed , and the resulting contractions to stimulation are very much diminished in Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. P. Dunstan .
[ May 24 , force .
Though this statement applies in degree to direct as well as to indirect stimulation , the failure of the nervous intramuscular structures is relatively greater than that of the muscle fibre .
After poisoning by as much as 0-007 to 0-008 gramme per kilogramme , entire absence of all response , even to direct stimulation applied 24 hours later , has been witnessed .
Such a result is however exceptional .
In order to test as closely as possible the actual and relative effects of indaconitine and spicaconitine upon nerve and muscle , immersion experiments were employed .
Einger 's perfusion solution was the menstruum used , this being well suited to the preservation of activity in nervous as well as in muscular tissue , as demonstrated by the fact that in control experiments in which 20 c.c. of this solution was used for immersing the muscle nerve preparation ( the foot being retained as described in ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 195 , p. 66 ) , the nerve preserved its excitability for from 45 to 50 , and the muscle for 75 to 86 hours .
Accurately measured amounts of indaconitine and bikhaconitine solutions were tested on companion nerve-muscle preparations obtained from the same animal , or else one of the preparations was exposed to an aconitine solution whilst the other was used as a control .
In all cases the minimal excitability was determined from time to time with as little repetition of stimulation as possible .
With solutions having a proportion of alkaloidal salt of 1/ 5000 to 1/ 25000 , the effects of indaconitine and bikhaconitine are fairly parallel towards nervous as well as muscular tissue ; but with solutions of 1/ 50000 and up to 1/ 500000 , indaconitine shows a somewhat greater activity relatively towards both structures , though the difference is more marked towards nervous tissue .
The most dilute solution of indaconitine which proved directly active upon muscular tissue was 1 / 800000 .
Solutions of 1/ 1000000 indaconitine ( which do not affect muscular tissue ) abolish the contractility of the specimen indirectly stimulated four to five hours before parallel solutions of bikhaconitine do so , and even with 1 / 2000000 the action of indaconitine usually preponderates , though but slightly .
In a dilution of 1/ 2500000 bikhaconitine , the nerve muscle preparation frequently reacts as long as a control preparation to which no addition of an aconitine has been made .
The excitability of intramuscular nerve structures is increased by both solutions when of medium attenuation , whilst the production by either of fibrillation is but seldom observed .
The resistance of the nerve muscle preparations in this series taken from frogs very recently obtained , was greater than that of those used in the immersion experiments made with japaconitine and pseudaconitine , upon animals which had been some time in the laboratory .
It has not been 1905 .
] Pharmacology of Indaconitine and Bikhaconitine .
possible hitherto to institute a thorough comparison of the two series of aconitines under precisely similar conditions , but from the results of a few contrasted experiments , it seems likely that there is no large variation in the activity of the alkaloids under discussion from those previously examined towards muscular and intramuscular motor nervous tissue .
Bikhaconitine .
Action of Bikhaconitine upon Blood-pressure and Respiration of Anaesthetised Animals ( Cats and Rabbits ' ) .
The general features of aconitine are reproduced by bikhaconitine with regard to the circulatory system , but the latter develops a stronger action upon respiration , which is slowed and altered in character .
Though not so active in this respect as pseudaconitine , it is more so than the other aconitines examined in these researches , and it is to this that the greater toxicity of bikhaconitine is attributable .
In one experiment after the administration of three half lethal doses of bikhaconitine with intervals of 45 ' , a condition of " delirium cordis " was occasioned by strong vagus stimulation .
Irregularity of the heart had already commenced and vagus stimulation ( coil 10 ) had produced a rise of pressure with acceleration of the rhythm by 10 beats per minute , when after a pause of 15 " the secondary coil was approximated to 8 cm .
, with the above result .
The auricle remained in a state of contraction but exhibiting rapid twitchings , the blood-pressure rose for 3 " and then fell rapidly , so that 5 " after the condition commenced the last of the irregular impulses had been recorded .
The ventricles showed wild fluctuation apparently in every portion , which persisted for some time after all impulses had ceased in the carotid .
No such result has been witnessed hitherto during the numerous experiments performed with the aconitines .
Perhaps in this solitary instance it may have been due to the sudden exhaustion of the residue of coordinating action left in the vagus mechanism .
The injection of atropine after the aconitines has never occasioned this phenomenon .
When the effect of bikhaconitine upon anaesthetised cats and rabbits is contrasted , it appears that the inhibitory action of the stimulated cardiac vagus is sooner abolished in the latter , but that at the time when this occurs section of the vagus still causes increased slowing of the respiration .
Action of Bikhaconitine on Rabbits .
A proportion of 0'00004 gramme per kilogramme ( this is slightly less than one-half the lethal ) causes acceleration followed by some degree of slowing of the respiration .
Salivation rarely occurs .
There is no paresis , but the VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; B. 2 K Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. R. Dunstan .
[ May 24 , animal is quiet and does not feed for a time .
The variation in rectal temperature is not more than 1 ' C. , a slight rise may or may not precede the fall .
0 000065 gramme per kilogramme.\#151 ; The respiratory changes noted above are accentuated .
Free salivation accompanied by chewing and retching movements , some paresis , especially of the hind legs , pupillary dilatation , and decline of temperature by 1*5 to 2 ' are observed .
Recovery takes place in two hours .
0*00008.\#151 ; As the lethal proportion is approached all the symptoms are exaggerated .
After transitory acceleration , there is respiratory slowing to one-quarter or one-fifth of the original .
The respiration is for a time dyspnceal , the thorax expands but imperfectly , a prolonged pause in inspiration is usual .
Respiration may become strident , and when this is the case dyspnceal spasms may occur .
The pupils are dilated .
Paresis is considerable , the body becoming limp , this condition extending in degree to the sphincter ani .
The fall of temperature amounts from 2 to 3 ' C. , and if the body is not kept covered or exposed to warmth , a reduction of many degrees more is probable and death may result .
On one occasion even with such precautions death resulted after a dose of this proportion .
Recoveries , however , occur up to 0*0000875 gramme per kilogramme .
0*00001.\#151 ; This proportion is distinctly hyperlethal , death taking place in about 40 ' and being primarily due to respiratory failure .
It is preceded by dyspnceal convulsions .
The lethal dose has been determined at 0*0000875 gramme per kilogramme .
On one occasion only has a slightly larger proportion been recovered from ( 0*00009 ) .
From the tables of the effect of readministration of indaconitine and bikhaconitine respectively , as well as from experimental records which are not tabulated , the following points may be indicated:\#151 ; 1 .
For both alkaloids there is a marked tolerance when the dose is one-sixth of the lethal administered every 45 or 60 ' , or even of one-quarter when repetition is not more frequent than hourly .
2 .
The greatest reduction after such administrations is after the second dose , and thereafter the temperature rises , though showing trifling checks when subsequent administrations are in progress .
3 .
After smaller , as well as after larger doses , it is peculiarly in those cases in which respiration remains depressed that the relatively late occurrence of the maximum fall of temperature is to be looked for .
In fact it may be predicted that the temperature will continue to fall , or at least , fail to rise , so long as respiration remains in the region of 30 to 35 per minute .
1905 .
] Pharmacology of lndaconitine and 481 Repeated Administration of Bikhaconitine at Stated Intervals to Rabbits .
Effect on Temperature and Respiration .
Fraction of lethal proportion per kilo , body weight .
When re- peated .
How often .
Total proportion to the lethal .
Greatest fall of temperature .
Subsequent course of temperature .
Note on respiration .
mins .
45 7 H 11 Greatest reduction Respiration varies after second injec- through 30 per 1 ' tion .
only .
) ) 60 6 1 -o 0-8 Greatest after second injection .
45 8 2-0 3-5 Greatest after fifth Respiration remains injection .
slow , 34 to 48 per 1 ' during prevalence of low temperature .
\#187 ; 60 6 1 -5 1 *2 45 2 1 -o 3-2 Greatest after second .
Active dyspnoea in- A third wrould have duced .
been fatal .
\#187 ; 90 3 1 -5 2-9 Greatest after second Respiration slowed injection .
by 30 .
120 2 1-0 1 7 Greatest after second .
.180 2 1 -o 1 -7 Greatest after second .
Respiration much The two falls are slowed after each " equal in extent .
injection .
\#187 ; 240 2 1 -o 1 -3 Greatest fall after Falls to one-half prefirst injection .
existing rhythm after each injection .
4 .
When such a proportion as one-quarter of the lethal is administered every 45r , or one-half of the lethal every 45 , 60 or 90 ' , there is a decided summation of effect , and a further , often considerable reduction of temperature ensues upon readministration , so that in the former case the maximal fall does not occur until after the fifth administration .
When a third administration of the half lethal dose of indaconitine is made at intervals of 45 ' , a lethal issue may occur , though this is exceptional , but the third dose of bikhaconitine so administered is lethal .
5 .
As between bikhaconitine and indaconitine , it is further observable that the respiration accelerates less rapidly after the repetition of the former than when the latter is given , and to this may frequently be ascribed the greater accession to the fall of temperature after bikhaconitine .
It appears that as a result of greater summation of effect produced by bikhaconitine , when doses larger than one-sixth of the lethal are administered , the action of the alkaloid becomes relatively greater than that of indaconitine .
The toxicity of bikhaconitine is upon repetition of such doses , greater with regard to indaconitine than the relationship of the unit lethal dose , viz. , 0-0000875 gramme to 0-00012 per kilogramme , would indicate .
482 Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. B. Dunstan .
[ Hay 24 6 .
Up to 180 ' there is usually summation of bikhaconitine effect after a 0'5 lethal dose , whereas summation after indaconitine for a parallel proportion is rarely witnessed after a longer interval than two hours .
Action of Bikhaconitine towar(E .
temporaria ) .
( A Synopsis of Experiments is appended .
) 0-0009 gramme per kilogramme.\#151 ; Excitement , then voluntary movement reduced , limb reflexes often uncertain , respiration slowed , ultimately suspended .
0-0012.\#151 ; Excitement , with frothing on the body .
After transitory acceleration , slowing and arrest of respiration , all voluntary movement disappearing , gaping movements , great impairment of reflexes , lasting 4 to 5 days , during which period there is inability to get off the dorsal position .
0*0013.\#151 ; As above ; but cardiac irregularity develops , with ultimate failure of effective systole , the circulation in the web becoming partial , feeble , and intermittent until it ceases altogether .
Death takes place in 12 to 14 hours after injection .
Lethal Dose.\#151 ; In June and July an occasional lethal effect followed a proportion of 0'001 gramme and upwards , until on reaching 0-00125 gramme per kilogramme recoveries were very exceptional .
The last may be accepted as the lethal proportion .
Whilst the action of bikhaconitine is both qualitatively and quantitatively closely similar to that of indaconitine on the heart , the effect of bikhaconitine is greater than that of indaconitine on the frog 's respiration .
Action on Respiration.\#151 ; Suspension of respiration is not essentially inimical to the continuance of life in frogs , and therefore , though bikhaconitine causes an arrest of visible or registrable movement in smaller proportion than indaconitine would , the lethal proportion is practically the same for the two alkaloids .
Whilst proportions of 0*0008 to 0-0009 of bikhaconitine may suspend respiratory movement for from 1| to 2\#163 ; hours , doses approaching the lethal prolong the period of inactivity to 36 hours or more .
Bikhaconitine upon the Cardiac Rhythm of Frogs.\#151 ; The effects of this alkaloid are essentially those of indaconitine , as are also the modifications produced in the reaction of the heart to vagus stimulation .
Perfusion of the separated organ has also parallel results .
Pig .
C2 , C3 shows the increased excitability , accelerated rhythm , and failing systole of the ventricle under perfusion of relatively powerful solutions of the alkaloid ( 0*00048 and 0-000549 ) .
The two contractions in Ci are elicited by stimulation before circulation of bikhaconitine .
1905 .
] Pharmacology of Indaconitine and 483 After 0-00048 gramme bikhaconitine .
Perfusion of ventricle with normal solution .
After 0*00064 bikhaconitine .
Reaction of Muscle-nerve from Frogs ( R. temp. ) poisoned lie Bikhaconitine.\#151 ; The results are fairly parallel with those obtained from indaconitine , but the average effect upon the intramuscular nervous tissue seems to be slightly weaker .
Experiments a and b were performed upon brail dess frogs ; in a vascular ligature was applied to the left leg .
Dose Heart Min .
excitability .
per kilo .
arrested .
N. M. mins .
cm .
a 0-002 200 44 20 i\gt ; 0-012 110 / lug .
24 \ Open 30 23 24 c 0-024 75 45 27 In " b , " after a series of 10 stimulations ( each 3 " faradisation ) the contractions of the preparation from the open side showed a decided falling off both in altitude and in maintenance , The subsequent contractions are shown in fig. D : indirect ( N ) and direct ( M ) stimulations alternate .
c. In this experiment , though the dose was proportionately larger , less effect was produced at the periphery , owing to the earlier interference with circulation .
The effect of bikhaconitine upon nerve and muscle poisoned in situ appears to be slightly less ( dose for dose ) than is that of indaconitine .
Immersion of Nerve-muscle Preparations in Solutions of Bikhaconitine.\#151 ; The results of this series of contrast experiments have been given above .
Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. R. Dunstan .
[ May 24 , Alternating Nerve Muscle , 3 secs , faradisation .
Prepared from frog poisoned by 0'012 gramme bikhaconitine per kilogramme .
Comparison of Pseudaconine from Indaconitine and from Pseud aconitine .
It lias been already stated that indaconitine furnishes , as its ultimate hydrolytic product , the same base as pseudaconitine .
It was thought desirable to closely compare the physiological action of the pseudaconine from both sources .
The amount of material available only sufficed for observation upon frogs : in these animals the lethal dose was determined .
Both alkaloids possessed a sweet taste ; neither occasioned any of the aconitine effects locally when placed upon the tongue .
Action of Pseudaconine ( from Pseudaconitine ) in Progressive Doses upon R. temporaria .
0'4 gramme per kilogramme.\#151 ; ISTo excitement after injecting solution into dorsal sac .
Reflexes rapidly disappeared ; no spontaneous actions were , as a rule , attempted .
In 40 ' all reflex had gone and respiration had ceased , except that when placed on dorsum one slight movement of the arms and the respiratory muscles ensued .
Heart 24 regular .
2 hours 47^ Reflex beginning to return .
Circulation in web moderate , heart 22 .
Next day quite normal .
1'3 grammes per kilogramme.\#151 ; As above , though action from larger dose more rapid .
Pigment cells distended .
1905 .
] Pharmacology of Indaconitine and Bikhaconitine .
485 24 hours.\#151 ; Reflex absent , pupils contracted , circulation moderate .
48 hours.\#151 ; Sitting up but limp , cannot get off dorsum , tremulous on movement .
52 hours.\#151 ; Nearly gets off dorsum .
72 hours.\#151 ; Averse to movement , but hops well if roused , gets off dorsum .
1*7 grammes per kilogramme.\#151 ; As above , but early symptoms are augmented and accelerated .
24 hours.\#151 ; Circulation in web feeble and partial .
48 hours.\#151 ; Circulation improving .
Reflexes absent except faint movement of all trunk when placed on back .
96 hours.\#151 ; Sluggish eye reflex .
Faint respiratory movement , gets off back .
122 hours.\#151 ; Does not spring yet .
Movements rather tremulous .
144 hours.\#151 ; Hops fairly .
No dose of lower proportion than 1*7 per kilogramme was lethal , whereas larger doses proved so , owing to cardiac failure .
Whilst the lethal dose of this aconine is about 1*75 grammes per kilogramme , its effect in sub-lethal dose appeared to pass off more rapidly than that of pseudaconine from indaconitine .
This , however , may have been due to differences in the animals under observation .
After 0'004 pseudaconine , from pseudaconitine .
Perfusion of ventricle .
In all 0'08 gramme pseudaconine .
Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. R. Dnnstan .
[ May 24 , Perfusion of the Heart with Pseudaconine { from Fig. E._ Strengthening of the ventricular systole ensues when a few cubic centimetres of solution ( containing O02 of alkaloidal salt per 20 c.c. of menstruum ) are perfused ( Ea ) , and this effect is still apparent when 20 to 30 c.c. ( E3 ) have been passed slowly through the organ .
When 60 to 70 c.c. have passed , a delay in the systolic phase with retarded relaxation occurs , ( E4 ) , and beyond this amount the systole becomes distinctly feebler ( E5 ) .
A spontaneously contracting preparation beats more slowly after small and moderate doses of pseudaconine .
Ringer 's solution perfused through the organ , which shows evidence of the action of large doses of pseudaconine , is usually sufficient to restore the original strength of contraction .
Action on Muscle and Nerve.\#151 ; When such a proportion of pseudaconine ( from pseudaconitine ) as 1 gramme per kilogramme is injected into the dorsal sac of a brainless frog in which one sciatic is exposed , it is found that on stimulating the peripheral end of the nerve , the contractions soon become feebler and remain altogether absent , if the stimulation is frequently repeated with but brief rest intervals .
After a pause contractions are again elicited , and this phenomenon may be reproduced until under a further and increasing action of the alkaloid , all response to faradisation is eventually lost .
According to the dose employed , this absence of response may last for some hours or even for a day or two .
The same rapid exhaustion of excitability under stimulation , is witnessed during the earlier phases of recovery of excitability of the intramuscular motor nerves .
In the uninjured animal recovering from pseudaconine , the inability to perform a series of spontaneous movements , as well as the rapid failure of the reflexes when a sufficient rest interval is not assured , is due to the same condition .
The separated nerve muscle preparation gives the reaction which might be anticipated .
Experiment.\#151 ; In a pegged frog { II .
a vascular ligature was applied to the left leg , and pseudaconine ( from pseudaconitine ) was injected under the skin of the abdomen in the proportion of 0-3 gramme per kilogramme .
In 45 ' , when all reflex had disappeared from the open side , two muscle nerve preparations were made , one from either leg , and tested by faradisation .
The minimal excitability on the ligatured side was 15 cm .
for indirect and 9 for direct stimulation ; on the open side 10 and 8 respectively .
The tracings are the result of a series of 3 " faradisations delivered every 10 in the first series ( Fi ) , every 20"in the second series ( F'j ) , and every 15 " in the third series ( F'h ) .
The muscle directly stimulated yields strong and well sustained contractions .
This is , therefore , the result of a slight action of pseudaconine , less than one-fifth of the lethal dose having been administered .
1905 .
] Pharmacology of Indaconitine and 487 Faradisation of nerve-muscle preparation slightly affected by 03 per kilogramme pseudaconine from pseudaconitine for 3 secs , on each occasion .
Action of Pseudaconine ( from Indaconitine ' ) Progressive Doses upon R temporaria .
0'4 gramme per kilogramme.\#151 ; No excitement after injection .
In 36 ' all reflex and respiratory movement gone , except that , when placed on the back , one movement of the trunk and protrusion of the hyoid took place .
In 2 hours 40 ' there is indication of return of reflexes commencing .
Next day is normal .
0-8 per kilogramme.\#151 ; The above symptoms accentuated .
In 29 hours there is reflex response in limbs and trunk .
Pupil contracted , no distinct eye reflex .
In 48 hours , recovered .
1'3 per kilogramme.\#151 ; In 11 ' all reflex gone ; 3 hours , circulation in web is good and general .
24 hours.\#151 ; No reflex , circulation good , pupil contracted .
48 hours.\#151 ; Beginning to draw leg up reflexly .
Partial eye reflex .
Prof. J. T. Cash and Dr. W. R Dunstan .
[ May 24 , 52 hours.\#151 ; Legs drawn up .
Cannot get off dorsum after voluntary effort , ability for further movement is temporarily suspended .
72 hours.\#151 ; Lethargic , sitting up , hop short , slight tremor on movement .
1-7 per kilogramme.\#151 ; As above .
Circulation in 24 hours is only just moving in larger vessels of web .
48 hours.\#151 ; Circulation still feeble , but more general ; when placed on dorsum , a very slight movement in trunk .
96 hours.\#151 ; Eye reflex doubtful , but brisk leg reflex when placed on dorsum .
Circulation feeble .
Eespiration is 120 hours.\#151 ; Cannot get off dorsum , but moves spontaneously .
Eye reflex present .
Faint respiratory movements at long intervals .
144 hours.\#151 ; Cannot get off dorsum , but crawls if placed on belly .
Eespiration stronger and more frequent .
168 hours.\#151 ; Gets off back , still feeble , spring very short .
Proportions above 1'7 were lethal from failure of the heart , and so on one occasion was L5 .
It has been impossible , from scarcity of material , to make this estimation more exactly , but it is probable that the toxicity of the two pseudaconines is identical ( 1*75 gramme per kilogramme ) , although the duration of action of large doses of the indaconitine product appears to be relatively somewhat longer , a result which may be attributable rather to variations in the animals than to differences in the substances .
Perfusion of the Frog 's Heart.\#151 ; Solutions of pseudaconine ( from indaconitine ) salt ( OOl in 20 c.c. of menstruum ) were found to increase the strength of the systole , and otherwise to occasion the same phenomena as those described for pseudaconiue from pseudaconitine .
The effect of large doses of the former seemed slightly in excess of that of the latter , but from the nature of the experiment exact contrast is difficult .
The excitability of the preparation beating spontaneously so long as perfused by Einger 's solution , seems to decline on substituting pseudaconine solution , spontaneous contraction tending to become less frequent or to disappear .
A good contraction is , however , elicited on stimulating .
Action on Muscle-nerve.\#151 ; The same phenomena are occasioned by both pseudaconines .
Experiment.\#151 ; Pegged P. temporaria , vascular ligature applied to left leg .
Injection 0*3 per kilogramme pseudaconine ( from indaconitine ) .
In 20/ , and before reflex was quite abolished , two companion nerve-muscle preparations were made .
The effect of faradisation ( Gi of nerve and G2 of muscle ) is shown in the figures .
Each stimulation is of duration , and it is observable that the longer the rest interval and the greater the ensuing 1905 .
] Pharmacology of Indaconitine and Bikhaconitine .
489 G " faradisation of nerve-muscle preparation slightly affected by 0 3 gramme per kilogramme pseudaconine ( from indaconitine ) for 3 secs , on each occasion .
The time-interval ( marked between stimulations ) varies .
A pause of 3 secs , before the last group .
Go , direct stim .
of muscle .
contraction , the shorter and the fainter the response .
There is a rest time of 3 ' before the final group is taken .
A single response to 3 " faradisation recorded on a rapidly moving surface is shown ( fig. H ) .
H. Single faradisation ( 3 secs .
) of nerve of above recorded on rapidly moving surface .
The section on aconine in a previous paper* may stand for the pseudaconines now under discussion , in so far as the action of these upon reflex excitability of the cord , upon respiration , and upon the form of the muscle curve are concerned .
All three appear to possess in common some antagonising action towards the weakening and incoordinating effect produced by the aconitines upon the frog 's heart .
This circumstance is referred tof when the respective action of aconitine and aconine ( from A. napellus ) was discussed .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 190 , p. 380 .
t Ibid. , p. 283 .
Pharmacology of Indaconitine and BiJchaconitine .
Summary .
The two aconitines , indaconitine and bikhaconitine , agree in their qualitative effects with the other alkaloids of this series , aconitine , japaconitine , and pseudaconitine , which have been dealt with in onr previous papers .
The toxicity of indaconitine is less than that of bikhaconitine towards warm-blooded animals ; in this respect the former stands very near to the aconitine of A. napellus , whilst the latter being somewhat stronger than japaconitine , is to be referred to a position between this alkaloid and pseudaconitine from forms of A.ferox which is much the most active of the series .
The depression of the respiratory function by indaconitine is less than that produced by bikhaconitine , and to this the greater toxicity of the latter is referable .
Repeated doses of alkaloids administered at regular intervals and in similar fractional proportions of the lethal dose\#151 ; are followed by a more marked toxic effect when bikhaconitine is administered rather than indaconitine .
Towards frogs the toxicity of the two alkaloids under discussion is practically equal , bikhaconitine is more active than indaconitine in reducing the respiratory activity .
On the other hand , it is somewhat less active in abolishing the excitability of muscular and intramuscular motor nervous tissue ( immersion experiments ) , and in reducing the ability of the muscle-nerve preparation poisoned in situ for the performance of work sufficient to cause fatigue .
The local effect of the two aconitines when applied to the skin by inunction , is equal and similar to that of the aconitines already considered .
Indaconitine and bikhaconitine may therefore be substituted for aconitine and pseudaconitine for internal use , indaconitine being administrable in the same dose as aconitine ( from A. napellas ) and bikhaconitine in proportion of 0'75 of the unit dose of the former , whilst for local application they may be used as contituents of ointments in similar proportions to aconitine .
Pseudaconine from Pseudaconitine and Bikhaconitine .
The action of these is , towards frogs , identical .
Their toxicity appears to be practically equal and their effect generally similar to that of aconine ( from aconitine ) .
Their action is in the main curari-like in character .
In conclusion it is an agreeable duty to add that many of the observations on temperature , together with control experiments upon the physiological action of the alkaloids discussed in this paper were accurately carried out by Dr. Groll , Second Assistant in the Materia Medica Department of Aberdeen University , whilst the specimens of the pure alkaloidal salts required in the experiments have been prepared in the laboratories of the Imperial Institute by Mr. A. E. Andrews , Salters ' Company 's Research Fellow .

