IX .
" Description of a New Mercurial Gasometer and Air-pump .
" By T. R. ROBINSON , D.l. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received June 2 , 1864 .
In some experiments on the electric spectra of metal and gases , I felt the want of a mercurial gasometer for working with such of the latter as are absorbable by water .
That of Pepys is on too large a scale for my requirements , and it seemed better to contrive one more easily manageable , which I saw could also be made to act as a mercurial air-pump .
In this I have succeeded to my satisfaction ; and I hope that a description of it may be useful to those who are engaged in similar researches .
There have been several attempts made to exhaust by means of mercury , the chief of them with which I am acquainted being those of Close ( Nicholson 's Journal , 4to , iii .
p. 264 ) , Edelcrantz ( Nicholson , 8vo , vii .
p. 188 ) , Traill and Children ( Nicholson , xxi .
pp. 63 &amp; 161 ) , and that of Geisler , which he uses in preparing the beautiful vacuum-tubes which bear his name .
In all the principle is the same .
A vessel is filled with mercury , which is made to descend from it , leaving in it a Torricellian vacuium ; this vessel may be made to communicate with a receiver , and abstract from it a portion of the gas which fills it ; and by repeating the process the receiver can be exhausted as by successive strokes of an airpump .
In the two first instruments to which I have referred , the descent of the mercury is produced by lifting a plunger which fills one leg of an inverted siphon , the vacuum vessel being at the top of the other leg .
On depressing the plunger , the mercury is again forced up to fill that vessel ; and of course both legs must be longer than the barometric column .
In the two nlext , the receiver itself is filled with mercury , which , by opening a cock , falls through a tube of sufficient length into a cistern below .
Here the stroke ( so to call it ) cannot be repeated .
In Geisler 's the bend of the siphon is of vulcanized caoutchouc , so that one leg can be inclined down to a horizontal position , and thus allow the metal to fall from the other , or when raised to the vertical position fill it againi .
This I believe acts well , but it must be rather unwieldv ; and my practical acqtuaintance with the working of tubes of that material has made me suspicious of their tightness and permanence under such circumstances .
As in all these cases the mercury is supported in the vacuum-vessel by atmospheric pressure , it is obvious that its descent will be produced by removing in any way that pressure ; and an effective means of doing this is supplied by the common airpump ; more tedious certainly than the mechanical means above mentioned , but far more manageable ; and as any mercuirial pump must be slow in its working , while it is only required for special purposes , this defect is not of much importance , and moreover is compensated by some special advantages .
But besides briniging down the mercurv , means must be provided for raising it again .
My first plan was to do this by conidensed air , the same syringe which made the exhaustion having its action reversed by a wellknown arrangement .
It worked extremely well , was lighter , and required less mercury than the contrivance which I finally adopted ; but it is less convenient for gasometric work , as the syringe must be worked while gas is delivered .
The maachine in its present form is shown in fig. 1 .
Its base is a stout piece of mahogany , 21 inches by 105 , with a rim round it 05 deep to prevent the loss of any spilled mercury , and handles at the ends by which it can be transported .
To this is firmly fixed the iron stand B , 3.5 high , 4 in diameter above ; its upper surface is carefully trued to a flanch , in which is cemented the vacuum-bell A , so that when the touching surfaces are lightly smeared with a mixture of lard and wax and screwed together by the six screws ( some of which appear in the figure ) , the joint is air-tight .
The bell A is 2 inches in diameter and 6-5 high ; it has a tubulure atlthe top , in wh'ich is ground a glass cock C , whose construction is shown in fig. 2 .
The key of it is pierced from its bottom to a level with the bore , with which this perforation communicates occasionally by a lateral opening .
In the position of the figure , it will be seen that the bell communicates with the branch a ; if the key be turned half round , it is connected with the branch r ; and in an intermediate positionl it is completely shut off .
These glass cocks have this great advantage over those of metal , that it can always be ascertained if they are air-tight ; their transparency permits us to see if the key and shell are in optical contact ; and the slightest air-way there is at once detected .
They should not be lubricated with oil , which grips , and may perhaps find its way into the bell and soil its interior .
I find the best material to be castor oil with rosin dissolved in it .
A hole is drilled down the axis of B , which communicates by a tube ( sunk in the wood and therefore not visible in the figure ) with the cast-iron -cylinder D. This is 13 inches high and 32 in internal diameter ; its top and bottom are secured to it air-tight by screws ; in it works a plunger of boxwood well varnished 10 4 high , and moving so loosely that mercury may pass it easily .
The plunger is wrought by a rod passing through the collar of leather H. In the top of the cylilnder is a stopcock E , to which is fixed a tube of vulcanized caoutchouc ( varnished with a solution of caoutchouc in benzidine ) , which is shown hanging down ; it has a coupling to coniiect it with all ordinary air-pump .
There is also in the top a screw S for admittinog air .
One end of the bell 's cock communicates with the atmosphere , the other with the receiver-plate R. This is of glass 2 inches in diameter , 0 75 thick , and is cemented on the top of the iron pillar P. Through it are drilled the passages showin in fig. 3 ; in t is ground the glass tube , shown in fig. 1 by T , the end of which is in contact with the cock , and their junction made air-tight by a tube of Para caoutchouc ; in g and k are similarly ground the siphon-gauge G and the glass cock K. These all communicate with the receiver by the passage v , and by removing the tubes can be easily dried or cleanied .
The cock K is connected by elastic tube with the catch-jar N , which is supported in a small mercurial trough M. The operation of this machine as an air-pump is as follows:-The receiver being placed on R , open the screw 5 , press down the pluniger nearly to the bottom of the cylinder , remove the key of the bell-cock , and pour through the opening which it leaves as much mercury as will fill the bell to the bore of the cock .
In this one 10 lbs. are required .
Raise the plunger to the top , and the metal will subside from the bell till only 03 of an inch remains on the top of B , filling the space left vacant in D by the rising of the plunger .
The length of the plunger and the height of B must be adjusted to this condition .
Replace the key ; turn it to communicate with the atmosphere ( which position I call ( a ) ) , and depress the plunger .
The mercury will rise again in the bell , filling it , and expelling the air from it , till at last a little mercury will appear in the bore of the cock .
To prevent this from being splashed about , a bit of bent tuLbe v is ground on the end of the cock , which receives it , and when it has too much is removed and emptied into D through S. Secondly , turni the key to shut off the bell ( position ( o ) ) ; draw up the plunger , close S , open E , and couple it to an air-pump , with which exhaust D. This pump may be of the commonest description , for an exhaustion of one or two inches is quite sufficient .
The mercury will sink in the bell , leaving above it a Torricellian vacuum .
Close E , and turn the key to communicate with the receiver ( position ( r ) ) ; its air or gas will expand iiito the bell .
These three operations form the cycle of operation , and must be repeated till the required exhaustion be obtained , with one modification of the first one .
In it , at the secolnd and all subsequent strokes , the key is to be at ( o ) and S openied ; thuls the atmospheric pressure will raise the mercury and do much of the plunger 's work ; that must then be depressed and the key set at ( a ) ; the other two steps are as at first .
When the instrument is to be used as a gas-holder , either the receiver must be in its place , or the opening of R must be closed by a piece of flat glass ; the bell must be filled by the plunger , and made , by ( r ) and by opening kc , to communicate with the jar N. The mercury will rise in that to its neck , and sink in A ; fill A again , pass gas into N , and , by carefully working the key , draw it into A till that is full .
As this gas will be mixed with the air of the vessels and passages , it must be expelled , and A refilled till its purity is certain .
If it be noxious , it must be coniduLcted into some absorbent fluid by an elastic tube , slipped on the a end of the cock ; which will also convey the gas to any vessel .
If it be required to fill a receiver for experiments in an atmosphere of gas either at common pressure or a less one , -it may either be exhausted by an air-pump connected with K , and filled from A , or exhausted by A and filled from N. The former can only be done with gases which have no action on brass .
These operations seem complicated when described with so much detail , but in practice they are very easy , and their result is good .
Some precautions , however , are required to ensure it .
The bottom of the bell-cock and of its key must be ground , so as to leave no shoulder or hollow in which air may be entangled when the bell is filled .
Every part of the metal work must be air-tight ; this can only be secured by covering , not only its joints , but its whole surface with several coats of varnish-paintbest of white lead .
When the first coat is applied , on exhausting the apparatus , every hole or pore is revealed by an opening in the paint ( often almost microscopic ) , which must be filled up as it forms till all is tight .
It is almost needless to mention that the whole must be perfectly dry .
If the bell be filled a few times with undried air , enough of moisture will adhere to its walls to prevent an exhaustion of more than 01 inch .
In such a case it must be dried by drawing air into it through sulphuric acid , and this repeatedly .
Moisture also occasionally finds its way into a part still more troublesome , into the passage which connects the bell and cylinder ; it is probably condensed there when the mercury is colder than the atmosphere .
I remove this by connecting the tube of K with a desiccator ; setting C to ( r ) , opening K and E , and by working the air-pump drawing a stream of dry air into D , which bubbles up through the mercury in the passage , and at last sweeps away all trace of water and its vapour .
In this operation it is necessary to remove a portion of the mercury , as otherwise it would be sucked irnto the pump ; indeed this mischief might occur in ordinary work by some mistalke in the manipulation-for instance , by leaving E open with ( a ) .
To prevent the possibility of this , D is connected with the pump by a mercury trap , easily imagined , which intercepts any of that metal that might come over .
And lastly , the interior of the bell must be perfectly clean if the highest degree of exhaustion is required .
This state is obtained by washing it with strong nitric acid , then with distilled water , and when quite dry wiping it with linen , from which all traces of soap or starch have been removed by boiling it in rain-water .
Thus we reduce to a minimum the film of air which adheres to the bell even when filled with mercury , and lessens its vacuum .
When all these precautions were taken , I found that with a receiver containing 3`7 inches , the fifth operation brought the gauge ( which had been similarly cleaned and carefully boiled ) down to 0 01 .
The sixth brought it still lower , but my present means of measurement* are not sufficient to determine the precise amount .
In this machine the old air-pump theorem ought to hold , and by it , with the fraction L7 , I find that the fifth should give 0 007 , and the sixth 0(0014 ; so that the presence of adherin , air is still sensible , though very slight .
So high a power , however , is n6t long maintained ; for by use , and especially with oxygen , which ( probably from the presence of ozone ) has a peculiar tendency to dirty mercury , the bell becomes soiled ; but it continues to give a vacuum of 0 02 , which is quite sufficient for ordinary objects .
At common pressure and temperature , the electric discharge throuoh the receiver shows no evidence of the presence of mercurial vapour ; but at 0 02 it is otherwise ; the discharge is greenish white , and the spectrum shows little except the lines of mercury .
If the gauige were detached , perhaps this vapour might be absorbed by gold-leaf .
The apparatus acts well as a mercurial gas-holder , ( and can deliver 18'5 inches .
Like all other contrivalnces for confining gaseous matter by mercury , it is liable to have its contents contaminated with air by diffusion betweeni the metal and the vessel which contains it ; but I expected that in this arrangement the defect would be little felt .
In order that it may take place , the air must pass a distance of 17-2 inches , of which 14 6 is a tube only 0 125 in diameter , and the rest is in a vertical direction against the pressure of 2-6 inches of mercury .
A single experiment will show how far this avails .
The bell was filled with dry hydro , en , which was found to contain 0'901 of the pure gas ; it was left for ten days exposed to considerable changes of temperature , and was then fotund to have 0-854 ; it was therefore contaminated at the rate of 0 005 per day .
I am not aware of similar measures with ordinary mercurial apparatus ; nior is this amount of error very important ; but it may I believe be corrected by a means long since announced by the late Professor Daniell which has been strangely neglected .
He proposed it to prevent the infiltration of air into barometers .
If the liquid metal adhered to the surface which it touches , as water would , this action could not occur ; now it wets , if I may use the word , several metals , as copper or silver , but it also dissolves them , and becomes less flutid .
Daniell , however , found that it does wet platinum without acting on it in any injurious degree ; and advised that a ring of platinum wire should be fused round the tube where it dips inlto its cistern .
On inquiring of his friend and fellow-labourer , Dr. W. A. Miller , I learn that it was completely successfill , but was not taken up by the opticians , and passed out of memory .
It is obvious that if a bit of platinum tube were cemented in the vertical passage below 1 ) , it would effectually bar the diffusion .
I do , not like to undo the joint there , which is now perfectly tight ; but I will certainly , when the opportunity offers , try the experiment .

