625 The Anatomy and Morphology of the Leaves and Inflorescences of Welwitschia mirabilis .
By Miss M. G- .
Sykes .
( Communicated by Prof. A. C. Seward , F.R.S. Received May 28 , \#151 ; Read June 30 , 1910 .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper deals with the anatomy of the leaves and inflorescences of Welwitschia , and with certain theoretical questions which arose during their examination .
Cotyledons , leaves , bracts , and flowers each receive two bundles when young , though in the adult leaf numerous additional bundles are intercalated .
The transfusion tissue , which more or less surrounds the bundles in all the foliar members , is developed in the pericycle ; in the bracts , and to a smaller extent in the old leaves , there is a further development of transfusion tissue from the cortical parenchyma .
This second type of transfusion tissue recalls that of Cycas , and the presence of centripetal xylem at the base of the cotyledonary bundles is another character suggesting relationship with the Cycads .
The structure of the peduncles , cone-axis , cone-bracts , and flowers is essentially similar in both male and female inflorescences , which are therefore regarded as homologous .
In the naked inflorescence axes the formation of inversely orientated bundles and the presence of xylem elements in a position internal to the protoxylem again recalls the Cycads .
Below the points of branching a series of elongated and waved bands of vascular tissue are formed , each consisting of a band of normally orientated xylem and phloem with an inversely orientated band on its outer edge .
The structure at this level is compared with Colpoxylon and others of the Medullosese .
The two bundles which supply the female flower stalk each branch to form three ; the central bundle of each trio passes out into the outer integument , , while the remaining four give rise to the perinucellary ring , which dies out at the level at which the inner integument becomes free .
From the position of this inner system it appears clear that it belongs to the inner integument .
In the male flower axis additional bundles are formed to supply the stamens , but the branching of the bundle is much as in the female .
A 626 Anatomy and Morphology , etc. , Welwitschia mirabilis .
reduced perinucellary ring is formed at the base of the aborted ovule ; in it two large bundles are especially conspicuous , and probably represent the reduced vascular supply of the single integument , which is here regarded as representing the outer integument of the female flower .
The changes involved in the development of the fertile ovule consist chiefly in the growth of the region between the origins of the two integuments , and in the still greater enlargement of the region above the origin of the inner integument resulting in the formation of the remarkable nucellar beak .
The micropylar tube or tip of the inner integument becomes strongly cuticularised .
The embryo-sac extends from the level of the origin of the outer integument for some distance above the origin of the inner integument , and projects into the nucellar beak .
Its position with regard to the two coverings thus corresponds roughly with the position of the embryo-sac in Lagenostoma in relation to the cupule and inner integument .
The cupule is compared with the free outer covering of Welwitschia , and it is pointed out that the greater growth of the apical region of the Welwitschian .ovule is probably correlated with siphonogamic fertilisation .
The large nucellar beak provides also more space for the elongation of the embryo-sac and embryo , and may be regarded as the precursor of the well developed apical region of the nucellus in Angiosperms .
The seeds of Cardiocarpusand the Cycads are also compared with Lagenostoma and Welwitschia .
In all these seeds the inner system of bundles appears to belong to the inner integument .
The ovule of Welwitschia also shows some points of resemblance to that of Bennettites .
It is thought probable that the ovulate strobilus of the Bennettitals is comparable with a telescoped cone of If elwitschia , and that Williamsonia angustifoliarepresents an intermediate stage in the telescoping process .
It is concluded that Welwitschia is probably connected with the Cycadean series , with the Bennettitals , and with the ancestry of the Angiosperms .
It seems remarkable that while both kinds of sporangia in the Cycads , the microsporangia in the Bennettitals , and probably both the ovules and stamens in the Angiosperms are foliar , the ovules of Welwitschia and Bennettites are commonly considered cauline .
Possibly these also are primitively foliar , and long ago became separated from the leaf and inserted on the cone axis ; it is shown that the course of the bundles to some extent supports this suggestion .

