III .
" On the Differential Equations of Dynamics .
A sequel to a Paper on Simultaneous Differential Equations .
" By GEORGE BOOLE , F.R.S. , Professor of Mathematics in Queen 's College , Cork .
Received December 22 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) Jacobi in a posthumous memoir* , which has only this year appeared , has developed two remarkable methods ( agreeing in their general character , but differing in details ) of solving non-linear partial differential equations of the first order , and has applied them in connexion with that theory of the differential equations of dynamics which was established by Sir W. R. Hamilton in the 'Philosophical Transactions ' for 1834-35 .
The knowledge , indeed , that the solution of the equation of a dynamical problem is involved in the discovery of a single central function , defined by a single partial differential equation of the first order , does not appear to have been hitherto ( perhaps it will never be ) very fruitful in practical results .
But in the order of those speculative truths which enable us to perceive unity where it was unperceived before , its place is a high and enduring one .
Given a system of dynamical equations , it is possible , as Jacobi had shown , to construct a partial differential equation such that from any complete primitive of that equation , i. e. from any solution of it involving a number of constants equal to the number of the independent variables , all the integrals of the dynamical equation can be deduced by processes of differentiation .
Hitherto , however , the discovery of the complete primitive of a partial differential equation has been supposed to require a previous knowledge of the integrals of a certain auxiliary system of ordinary differential equations ; and in the case under consideration that auxiliary system consisted of the dynamical equations themselves .
Jacobi 's new methods do not require the preliminary integration of the auxiliary system .
They require , instead of this , the solution of certain systems of simultaneous linear partial differential equations .
To this object , therefore , the method developed in my recent paper on " Simultaneous Differential Equations " ( Philosophical Transactions for 1862 ) might be applied .
But the systems of equations in question are of a peculiar form .
They admit , in consequence of this , of a peculiar analysis .
And Jacobi 's methods of solving them are in fact different from mine , though connected with it by remarkable relations .
He does indeed refer to the general problem of the solution of simultaneous partial differential equations , and this in language which does not even suppose the condition of linearity .
He says , " Non ego hic immorabor queestioni generali quando et quomodo duabus compluribusve sequationibus differentialibus partialibus una eademque functione satisfieri possit , sed ad casum propositum investigationem restringam .
Quippe quo preeclaris uti licet artificiis ad integrationem expediendam commodis .
" But he does not , as far as I have been able to discover , discuss any systems of equations more general than those which arise in the immediate problem before him .
It is only very lately that I have come to understand the nature of the relation between the general method of solving simultaneous partial differential equations , published in my recent memoir , and the particular methods of Jacobi .
But in arriving at this knowledge I have been led to perceive how , by a combination of my own method with one of those of Jacobi , the problem may be solved in a new and perhaps better , certainly a remarkable way .
This new way forms the subject of the present paper* .
Before proceeding to explain it , it will be necessary to describe Jacobi 's methods , to refer to my own already published , and to point out the nature of the connexion between them .
The system of linear partial differential equations being given , and it being required to find a simultaneous solution of them , Jacobi , according to his first method , transforms these equations by a change of variables ; he directs that an integral of the first equation be found ; he shows that , in virtue of the form of the equations and the relation which connects the first and second of them , other integrals of the first equation may be derived by mere processes of differentiation from the integral already found ; and he shows how , by means of such integrals of the first equation , a common integral of the first and second equations of the system may be found .
This common integral is a function of the known integral and certain variables , and its form is obtained by the solution of a differential equation between two variables-a differential equation which is in general non-linear , and of an order equal to the total number of integrals previously found .
An integral of the first two equations of the given system having been obtained , Jacobi shows that by a second process of derivation , followed by the solution of a second differential equation , an integral which will satisfy simultaneously the first three equations of the system may be found ; and thus he proceeds by alternate processes of derivation and integration till an integral satisfying all the equations of the given system together is obtained .
In these alternations , it is the function of the processes of derivation to give new integrals of the equations already satisfied ; it is the function of the processes of integration to determine the functional forms by which the remaining equations may in their turn be satisfied .
Jacobi 's second method does not require a preliminary transformation of the equations ; but the process of derivation , by which from an integral of the first equation other integrals are derived by virtue of the relation connecting the first and second equations , is carried further than in his first method .
It is indeed carried on until no new integrals arise .
The difference of result is , that the common integral of the first and second partial differential equations is determined as a function solely of the integrals known , and not as a mixed function of integrals and variables .
But its form is determined , as before , by the solution of a differential equation .
All the subsequent processes of derivation and integration are of a similar nature .
On the other hand , the method of my former paper applied to the same problem leads , by a certain process of derivation , to a system of ordinary differential equations equal in number to the number of possible integrals , and , without being individually exact , susceptible of combination into exact differential equations .
The integration of these would give all the common integrals of the given system .
All these methods possess , with reference to the requirements of the actual case , a superfluous generality .
A single common integral of the system is all that is required .
Now the chief result to be established in this paper is the following .
If , with Jacobi , according to his second method , we suppose one integral of the untransformed first partial differential equation to be found , if by means of this we construct according to a certain type a new partial differential equation , if to the system thus increased we apply the process of my former paper , continually deriving new partial differential equations until , no more arising , the system is complete , then , under a certain condition hereafter to be explained , a common integral of all the equations of the complete system , and therefore of the original system which is contained in it , may be found by the integration of a single differential equation susceptible of being made integrable by means of a factor .
But if the condition referred to is not satisfied , a new integral of the first partial differential equation must be found and the process repeated , with the certainty that sooner or later it will succeed .
As soon , then , as the condition is satisfied , a solution not , as by Jacobi 's methods , first of two of the partial differential equations of the given system , then of three , and so on , but of all at once , is obtained ; and this solution is obtained , not as in my former process , by the solution of a system of equations reducible to the exact differential form , but by that of a single differential equation reducible to that form .
The condition in question is grounded on the theoretical connexion which exists between the process of derivation of partial differential equations involved in my former method , and the process of derivation of integrals involved in Jacobi 's methods .
In the actual problem , and in virtue of the peculiar form of the partial differential equation given , these two processes are coordinate .
If each be carried to its utmost extent , then to each new partial differential equation arising from the one will correspond a new integral ( of the first partial differential equation ) arising from the other .
The theory now to be developed is founded upon the inquiry whether it is possible to satisfy the completed system of partial differential equations by a function of the completed system of the Jacobian integrals , i. e. to determine a common integral of the completed series of equations as a function of the completed series of integrals of the first equation .
The reader is reminded that by the completed series of integrals is meant , not all the integrals of the first partial differential equations that exist , but all that arise from a certain root integral by a certain process of derivation , together with the root integral itself .
Now the answer here to be established to this inquiry is the following .
The first of the partial differential equations necessarily will , and others may , be satisfied by the proposed function irrespectively of its form .
If the number of equations of the completed system which is not thus satisfied is odd ( this is the condition in question ) , the form of the function which will satisfy all is determinable by the solution of a single differential equation of the first order , capable of being made integrable by means of a factor .
Although the direct subject of this paper is the solution of partial differential equations of the first order , I wish it rather to be received as a slight contribution to that theory of the dynamical equations which was first published in the Philosophical Transactions , and which sug , gested to Jacobi the line of investigation which I here only seek to pursue a little further ,

