]\gt ; [ 279 ] VIII .
Results of the Theory of the Diffractebn of a Piane Electromagnetic Wave by a Per.fectly Conducting Sphere .
J. PROUDMAN , A. T. DOODSON , G. KENNEDY .
by T. J. .
BROMWICH , Sc. D. , F.R. Received April 13 , \mdash ; Read Noyember 23 , 1916 .
Introduc ( By J. PROUDMAN .
) 1 .
AT the suggestion of Dr. BROMWICH , I began the computations leading to this paper nearly three years ago .
Using tables constructed by Lord RAYLEIGH* and Prof. A. LODGE , obtained results for , 2 , and ; in this order .
From the results for and 2 , graphs of could be constructed with some confidence , but such graphs were entirely mpossible in the case of , owing to the large number of their undulations .
( For the graphs of these functions , as finally drawn , see figs. 1 , 3 , 18 , 20 , 22 , 24 .
) I then handed over the work to Messrs. DOODSON and KENNEDY , and the whole of the results as they now appear are due to them .
Mr. DOODSON first constructed tables for BESSEL'S functions of half-integral orders , and Mr. KENNEDY constructed tablesS for the derivatives of LEGENDRE'S functions .
These two sets of tables , together with those of LODGE already quoted , are what have been used in all the subsequent work .
Mr. DOODSON computed quite independently the cases , 2 , for all the values of that I had taken together with His results were in agreement with mine , except for a number of small differences RAYLEI , " " On the Acoustic Shadow of a Sphere , with an Appendix giving the Values of LEGENDRE'S Functions , . .
, by Prof. A. LODGE 'Phil .
Trans. Roy .
Soc , vol. cciii .
, p. 87 [ ' Sc. Papers , ' vol. , p. 149 ] .
RAYLEIGH , " " Incidence of Light upon a Transparent Sphere of Dimensions comparable with a Wavelength ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. lxxxiv .
, p. 25 ( 1910 ) ; [ ' Sc. Papers , ' vol. , p. 547 ] .
The notation is explained in the next section .
These have been published by the British Association ; Report ' for 1914 , p. 87 .
S These are to be presented shortly to the British Association .
VOL. CCXVII .
[ Publiehed August 16 , 1917 .
which he found to be due to numerical errors on my part .
From the larger number .
of values of thus taken , graphs of ( figs. 2 , 4 ) could be constructed with confidence and no further work was necessary for , 2 .
Tables X. , XI .
, and figs. 1 to 4 , contain the results of this part of Mr. DOODSON'S vork .
equally the labour , Messrs. DOODSON and KENNEDY then similarly recomputed the case of , and added the extra values of which had been taken for , 2 .
It then proved possible to construct rough graphs of , but the uncertainties in the graphs of were very reat , owing to the magnificatio1 ] of errors involved in the squaring .
In order to get more insight into the general nature of the results , they performed for all the work that they had done for , sharing it similarly .
The construction of accurate graphs of proved as impossible as before , i.e. , knowing only the points on the curves of figs. 25 to 28 , indicated by small circles , the complete curves could not be drawn .
Mr. DOODSON then conceived the idea of calculating the gradients of the curves at all the values of taken , and formed the necessary series .
Mr. KENNEDY shared the computations with him , and the gradients were calculated at every known point of the curves for both and 10 .
These proved a great help .
At this stage the results obtained for , 10 were those indicated by the small circles and tangents in figs. 17 to 28 .
The small uncertainties in the graphs of , still led to considerable uncertainties in those of Mr. DOODSON then designed and carried out an examination of the way in which the results found differ from those given by the theoretical first approximation for large values of .
The sections on analysis of results and interpolation give this work .
Some of the methods proved their utility by leading to the detection of certain errors in the previous work , and all of them were used for interpolation purposes in constructing the final curves .
Only the curVes , as finally constructed from all considerations , are now given .
In the work of drawing up the results , all the curves have been drawn by Mr. DOODSON , while most of the tables have been written out by Mr. KENNEDY .
Only a selection , however , is printed ; the remainder are in the possession of the Royal Society .
For lstance , Tables I. to VIII .
are only printed in so far as they efer to , lvhile Tables XII .
to XIX .
, which refer to the gradients , are omitted altogethel eneral Formuloe .
2 .
For the theory of the probIem we shall quote a paper by Dr. BROXWICH on ' ' The Scattering of Plane Waves by Spheres * * This is a papel which Dr. communicated to the Society at the same time as the present one .
A PLANE ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVE BY A PERFECTLY CONDUCTING SPHERE .
281 Using spherical polar co-ordinates ) , the incident plane wave train is taken to contain the time factor , to along the negative direction of the axis to be polarized in the plane ) , and to have the electric force of unit amplitude .
The components of electric and magnetic force , in the disturbance produced by the sphere , along the directions of increasing , are denoted respsctively by X , and .
Then at a distance from the sphere , which is large compared with a wave-length of the incident train , we have , from the paper quoted , X , ( 1 ) where , ( 2 ) .
Take now , ( 3 ) , where are real .
Thorl the time-means of the squares of the real parts of and are respectively .
( 4 ) These give a measure of the energy of the disturbance .
The functions involve only and .
It is the object of the present paper to evaluate them , together with and for certain values of and all values of from to Writing , we have , using which we })tain ( 5 ) where , , ( 6 ) , , and , , ( 7 ) , .
Further , we easily obtain ' ( 8 ) while if we denote by respectively , we have , , ( 9 ) , .
In summing the series in ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , ( 9 ) , supplementing values of may be considered at the same time if the odd and even terms of these series are taken separately .
We A PLANE ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVE BY A PERFECTLY CONDUCTING SPHERE .
283 shall use the suffixes 1 , 2 , to denote respectively the sums of odd terms and sums of even terms .
Then for supplementary values of , the two values of each of are equal , while the two values of each of are equal and opposite .
For this reason in computing , for example , we evaluate separately for For we have , so that Numerical Summation of Series .
( By A. T. DOODSON and G. KENNEDY .
) 3 .
The first step was to construct tables of and , where takes each of the forms This was done by means of the Brit. Assoc. tables*mentioned in S1 , using sevenfigure logarithms and afterwards reducing to five figures .
To each of these was added or for the same value of , using five-figure logarithms .
In these tables the values of for , 14 are misprinted ; the decimal point requires moving one place to the left in each case .
Care should be taken in using the logarithms , as soms of the negative characteristics are printed without the sign placed over them .
Checks were devised to secure accurate addition , and no errors were afterwards discovered in this part of the work .
Tables*I .
to VIII .
were then constructed by taking anti-logarithms .
This was a step the accuracy of which was not easily checked .
The method used was to repeat the work with a different book of logarithms and under different conditions so as to avoid " " repetition\ldquo ; errors .
Only one or two errors were afterwards found in this part of the work .
More errors were made in the summation of odd terms and of even terms of the series , the results of which are given at the feet of Tables I. to VIII .
Only five or six , however , which escaped immediate detection by checking , were afterwards found in Table X. How these were detected will be described in the section on ysis of results .
Except in the cases of , 2 , one person computed and the other .
The final work of combining these functions was done separately by each and the results compared .
It has been the practice throughout the work to use more figures than were strictly necessary for the desired degree of accuracy .
For example , many terms in the antilogarithms are given to six figures , though only five-figure logarithms were used .
This was found conducive to speed and accuracy , but it is not intended that the tables should be regarded as accurate to the extent given , except when this is stated .
The final results for are probably accurate to at least three decimal places , while and can safely be given to four significant figures , as is done in the tables .
The derivatives were computed similarly .
The gradients are probably accurate to the order given in the tables .
*The reason that has been takon where a regular would require , appears from the account of the history of the work in S1 .
As stated at the end of , these are not printed .
The unprinted tables referring to this section-are as follows : A PLANE ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVE By A PERFECTLY CONDUCTING SPHERE .
285 TABLE I. TABLE II .
TABLE III .
TABLE IV .
A PLANE ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVE BY A PERFECTLY CONDUCTING SPHERE .
287 TABLE V. TABLE VI .
TABLE VII .
TABLE VIII .
Analysis of Results and Interpolation .
( By A. T. DOODSON .
) 4 .
A consideration of the results tabulated up to this point shows that for 10 , they are not adequate for the complete representation of throughout the range of .
Owing to the excessive labour involved in further computations from the original series , other methods were tried .
The following sections are devoted to the discussion and )resentation of this work .
For values of , except those " " near\ldquo ; l80o , the first ' approximation for large values of , gives where Consider then the functions ( 11 ) which express the amounts by which the functions differ from the values .en by ( 10 ) .
These functions and their derivatives are calculable from the * BBONWICH , .
cit. A PLANE ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVE BY A PERFECTLY CONDUCTING SPHERE .
293 preceding tables , at the values of taken .
Tables .
to XXIII .
*give steps in the necessary computations , and figs. 5 to 12 show the results plotted against from to .
These curves show that for this range the first approximation is very good for .
In fact , the curves for were easily drawn and gave interpolated values of to three places of decimals , the last figure being approximate .
The functions have a greater number of oscillations and greater amplitudes , and there was in places some little doubt as to the exact forms of the curves .
By careful examination and comparison of corresponding curves for the two cases of and 10 , this difficulty was overcome .
Such a comparison was more fruitful when the curves were plotted with as abscissae , and this was done with , though the curves are not given below .
Correspondi curves are very similar but are not in phase with each other .
In the range to , it was found possible to obtain to at least two places of decimals , with very little doubt .
It was the work just described which led to the detection of errors mentioned in SS1 , 3 , How this was possible becomes evident on an examination of the formulae and numbers .
For example , an error in or generally leads to a larger relative error in and , to a much larger relative error in or , and to a very much larger relative error in and .
Thus , an error might pass unsuspected in the graph of ( for example ) but render the drawing of the graph of impossible .
Irregularities could also be detected in the curves plotted with as abscissae .
By these means it was possible easily to detect errors in , of the magnitude .
The actual finding of the errors involved much patient revision of the summing of the series .
Their existence had previously been entirely unsuspected .
In this part of the work it was necessary to calculate a number of values of .
and .
The method adopted was to find such that where is an integer and This ] about eighteen points on each undulation , and a selection from these was made according to circumstances .
A PLANE ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVE BY A PERFECTLY CONDUCTING SPHERE .
295 5 .
There remains the discussion of for the range to , and of for the range to For portions of these ranges a method was used which consists in decomposing into functions for which graphical interpolation is easier .
For both and 10 , take ( 12 ) where are functions of only .
These functions , thus defined , are perfectly determinate , but they can only be used for , 10 .
Together with their derivatives , they are calculable for the tabulated values of .
We have , in fact , ( 13 ) with similar formulae for , where denotes .
Also , , ( 14 ) , with similar formulae for the remaining cases .
The values of the functions themselves are given in Table XXIV .
for the range to , and are plotted by means of small circles in figs. 13 to 16 .
As will be seen , it is possible to draw smooth curves with fe .
undulations approximately through these points .
The complete graphs of , \amp ; c. , differ from the curves of figs. 13 to 16 by a number of ripples .
An attempt has only been made to draw these ripples in those parts of the curves actually required for interpolation .
For this the gradients were necessary , and the values of the derivatives used are given in Table XXV .
With the limited data of Tables XXIV .
, XXV .
the drawing of the ripples is not perfectly determinate , but it was assumed that the graphs of , \amp ; c. ( and of , \amp ; c are without ripples , and after a number of trials the ripples of the graphs of , \amp ; c. , were drawn in such a way as to secure this , but they are not given in the figures .
VOL. CCXVII.\mdash ; A. 2 A PLANE ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVE BY A PERFECTLY CONDUCTING SPHERE .
299 In using the functions , \amp ; c. , considerations of the possible forms for the theoretical higher approximations for large values of have been continually in mind .
Take , for example ; the first approximation being , let us assume an expression of the form . . . .
( 15 ) Then in the first approximation , we have Let us now that higher approximations are got by taking , ( 16 ) where the new functions of are small compared with .
The omission of a term independent in is necessary if as To the same order of approximation , ( 16 ) yields , ( 17 ) where are functions of , being calculable in terms of those in ( 16 ) .
We then obtain , from ( 13 ) , ' ( 18 ) and a similar expression for It is interesting to compare this hypothetical approximate expression for with what is known about the exact value of this function .
Since the coefficients of and in ( 18 ) are rapidly oscillating functions of with small amplitude , the suggestion immediately arises that the smooth curve of fig. 13 is the graph of or perhaps of , and that the ripples of the same figure are approximately represented by the remainder of ( 18 ) .
From to simple graphical interpolation.of has been relied upon .
Table XXVI .
contains all the interpolated values of that have been used .
810 MESSRS .
PROUDMAN , DOODSON , AND KENNEDy ON THE DIFFRACTION OF Figs. 25 to 28 give the final graphs of , the of which has been the object of the whole work .
From to 12 the curve for is probably correct to per cent. ; from to , to per cent. ; from to , to 1 per cent. The curve for is probably correct to 1 per cent. throughout the range .
These curves are drawn to different scales , as is approximately constant up to l20o , while has oscillations of increasing amplitude .
The curves for illustrate these oscillations up to the point where the last minimum occurs ; after this the value of increases rapidly to a maximum at The curves for illustrate the behaviour of this function up to , but do not show the hst oscillation before the function begins to increase rapidly to its maximum at For this range data are given in the tables .

