]\gt ; Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
salts of the roup , and edge dimensions of unit of the monoclinic space-lattices of the two crystal structures .
The thus indicate very perfect congruency and almost identity of the two ucCures .
It will be in a separate communication , immediately following this paper , that this esult , in conjunction with the precisely silnilal facts observed concerning the almnoniuln and rubidium salts of every ocrroup ated by author , including the rhombic group of simple alkali sulphates , has an important on the theory of valency volumes : ' that theory is entirely incapable of explaining it .
Analysi Topic Axes of the Sutphates , their on the Theory of Valency By A. E. H. TUTTON , D.Sc .
, hf .
A. , F.R.S. eceived November One of the most interesting facts brought to light in the course of the author 's ations of the rhombic sulphates and selenates of potassium , rubidium , caesium , and ammonium , and of the monoclinic double salts containing those simple salts in combination with the snlphates and selenates of dyad-acting metals ( Mg , , Fe , Ni , Mn , Cu , and Cd ) , is the approximation in structure which has inyariably been observed between the rubidium salt of any group and the ammonium salt of that same roup .
This striking fact is again emphasised by the results for the nickel roup of double selenates , before the Roy Society on the same day as this present communication , and of which an Abstract immediately precedes this paper .
While considerable differences occur between the structural dimensions of the potassium , rubidium , and caesium salts of the differences which llown to follow the order of the atomic * See ' Phil. ( yet published ) .
Instead of " " weights\ldquo ; we may substitute with equal validity " " atomic \ldquo ; ( the numbers of the elements according to their sequence in the Periodic Table ) .
For the atomic numbers of , Rb , and Cs are 19 , 37 , and , and their fferences are similarly related , , Cs-Rb , and Cs-K or twice 18 .
Indeed , it is probable that there is an intimate connection between this stall law of the author and the law of Moseley , that the properties of an element are defined by the atomic number , which is equal to the number of units of sitive electrical charge in the atomic nucleus .
X-Ray Analysis Axes of the .
Sulphates .
73 of the alkali metals , Rb , Cs , and , or twice 46 so that the rubidium salt is always lntermediate\mdash ; the ammonium salt has without exception proved to possess structural dimensions almost identical with those of the rubidium salt , the central member of the } ) .
By structural dimensions jlre meant directional dimensions and the total volume of the unit cell the spacelattice , the same type of which is common to the whole rhombic or monoclinic isomorphous series .
The total volume is represented by the nlolectlla volume ( the quotient of the molecular weight ) the density of the crystal ) , and the three directional dimensions of the cell in space are known as the topic axial ratios , or topic axes .
The basis the molecular volume ( molecular weight ' known ) is a very accurate determination of the density of the most perfect attainable crystal .
The topic axial ratios .
their calculation ( in addition to the molecular volume ) the crvstal elements ( crystal-axial crles and ) , which are derived from very accurate measurements of the external interfacial angles of perfectly developed crystals .
For a series of isomorphous , such as the ] ombic nornlal sulpbates of the alkali-metallic family roup of the periodic classification , , where may be potassium , rubidium or caesimn , there be no possible that the type of structure , that is of space-lattice , is identical .
Its sy1nnletry is the same for all the members of the group , but the dimensions of the cell vary progressively with the atomic weight or atomic number of the interchangeable alkali metals ; and the interfacial also differ htly and progressively , in accordance with very definite rulef , which have been established by the author .
When , however , we introduce the radiclc alnmoniunl , , instead of an alkali metal , and produce the isomorphous ammoniunl salt , the possibility has been suggested that the case may not be strictly comparable with the substitution of rubidium or caesium for potassiunt .
It is just conceivable that the observed nilarity of symmetry and crystal may be accompanied by a considerable up of the structure , such as , for instance , by the introduction of the extra atoms of in the form of new layers .
That is , it might be a case of a different sort of ructure being produced as regards dimensions and arrangement , but outwardly conforming to the same type of rhombic symmetry , with a fortuitous close similarity in external crystal angles .
Although , however , this is a possibility , it is highly improbable .
It is true that the quality of the isomorphism of ammonium sulphate is so far different from that betweell potassium , rubidium , and caesium sulphates as not to be subject to the Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
of progression with the atomic weight or atomic number of the metal , for we are now dealing with a non-metallic radicle group .
The case is defined by saying that the ammonium salt , while truly isomorphous , does not to the sive " " eutropic\ldquo ; group of the metallic salts , the term eutropism having been applied to the isomorphism of strictly analogous nlembers of the roup ( their interchangeable elements belonging to the same family group of the periodic classification ) , which follow the law of progression with the atomic weight or atomic number of the interchangeabJe constituents both as regards morphological and physical ( optical and other ) con stants .
But the author has shown that although the ammonium salt is uot eutropic with the salts of the alkali metals , its molecular volume topic axial ratios are indeed strictly comparable with those of the alkali metallic salts .
That the ammonium salt is truly isomorphous with the alkali-metallic salts is strikingly shown by the fact that not is the type of symmetry identical and the axial ratios very close ( see Table on ) , but the average change of angle ( for 37 measured angles ) on replacing potassium by ammonium is not even quite so yreat as when potassium is replaced by esitlm , and the maximum of interfacial angle follows the same rule .
The angular change oh substituting ammonium for potassium is , however , naturally greater than when rubidium is introduced instead of potassium , for this latter ( Rb ) replacement gives rise to only half as much of angle as when caesium is introduced for potassium , in accordance with the law of progression for the alkali metals , which law is very beautifully and directly by this fact .
To make the point clear , the actual figures for the sulphates are given in the following short Table .
It should be remembered that the difference of atomic weight or of atomic number between and Cs is just double that between and Rb .
and Maximum Angular Changes .
For replacement of in by Precisely similar facts are shown in the monoclinic double sulphate and selenate series , in which the angular changes are much larger ; the precision with which the and maximum changes for the caesium replacement are double those for the rubidium replacement is truly remarkable , in every X-Ray Topic Axes of the Alkali Sulphates .
75 group investigated , while the ammonium replacement approaches in effect the caesium interchange .
( See Table in preceding Abstract , p. 69 ) .
If there had been some disturbance of the structure , such as would be provoked by the insertion of additional ]ayers , one would have expected much more disturbance of the interfacial angles than this , even had the type of symmetry been left unaffected , ( which would have been improbable ) .
Hence , there was every reason to that the internal structural dimensions also had suffered no crucial change , and that they were faithfully indicated by the topic axial ratios .
Now , when we make the comparison of these ratios and of the molecular volumes of the four salts we obtain the result stated at the opening of this communication , namely , that the values for the ammonium salt are almost identical with those of the rubidium salt .
This will be clear from an inspection of the Table on p. 79 .
From this , and from similar lips which have been observed by the author for the ammonium and rubidium salts of every group of double sulphates and selenates , it has been concluded that the structures of the ammonium and rubidium salts are not only similar but practically ruent .
If they could be inlagined as shadows ( noil-material ) and one such ghostly space-lattice could be moved over and through the other consequently without inter- ference , it could be brought into actual identity with that other .
Before proceeding to indicate the great significance of this , it should be stated that there is further independent information available to show that it is a real fact .
It has been shown by the author that the ammonium and rubidium salts , of the two great rhombic and monoclinic isomorphous series studied in detail , exhibit a remarkable facility for the formation of mixed crystals .
* The analogous potassium and rubidium salts , or the rubidium and caesium salts , show very little such tendency to crystallise together , and the potassium and caesium salts , which differ most in molecular volume and topic axial ratios , practically never crystallise together .
G. Wulff has also independently discovered the fact as regards potassium and rubidium sulphates , obtaining perfect mixed crystals of these salts , while he found potassium and caesium sulphates to be totally immiscible , which he attributes to the great difference in their molecular volumes ; he , too , obtained only very imperfect mixed crystals of either ammonium or rubidium sulphate Indeed the rhombic form of ammonium selenate ( which salt usually crystallises exceptionally in a monoclinic form , being dimorphous ) isomorphous with potassium , rubidium , caesium has only hitherto been obtained by the author in large crystals when admixed with more or less rubidium selenate .
It is for this reason ( inability to prepare the pure rhombic form ) that ammonium selenate is not included in this comparison .
'Zeitschr .
fur Kryst .
vol. 42 , p. 558 ( 1906 ) .
VOL. XCIII.\mdash ; A. Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
with potassium or caesium sulphate .
Further , T. .
Barker has in beautiful series of researches , that the facility for forming overgrowth crystals or parallel growths of one salt of an isomorphous series on another is dependent on ruency of structure , as indicated by closeness of molecular volume and topic axial ratios ; and that the rubidium and ammonium salts of the same acid ( sulphates , chromates , and perchlorates were studied ) exhibit the property par excellence , while the corresponding potassium and caesium salts either form no such over- or parallel growths at all , or do so to a very low minimum extent .
Hence , we are compelled to conclude , the evidence being overwhelming , that the crystal structures of ammonium and rubidium sulphates ( and of the double sulphates or selenates containing these two alkali bases and the same dyad-acting metal ) are almost identical isostructural , that is ; congruent to a remarkable degree .
But this conclusion obviously means that the two atoms of rubidium are replaced by the 10 atoms of without any opening up of the structure .
In other words , the structure must either be already sufficiently open to permit of the insertion of the eight additional atoms , or the volume of the two ammonium radicle groups must be approximately the same as that occupied by the two rubidium atoms .
This conclusion has an important bearing on the valency volume theory of Barlow and Pope , as has been pointed out in the author 's memoirs .
No adequate explanation has been given of the difficulty .
The essence of the theory is that each valency in a given compound has the same volume , and that , therefore , the atomic volumes of combined elements are directly proportional to their valencies .
The theory is , of course , entirely inconsistent with Kopp 's idea of molecular volume .
Thus , in the two monadic potassium atoms are each supposed to occupy unit volume , the four dyadic oxygen atoms each to occupy two volumes , and the sulphur atom is , considered , somewhat arbitrarily , to also only dyadic and to occupy K two volumes ; the total volume thus be .
Similarly , the two rubidium and caesium atoIIlS in the isomorphous salts would occupy the same relative volumes of two out of twelve ; and the relative total volumes , as expressed directionally by the " " equivalence parameters\ldquo ; employed by Barlow and Pope ( who discard topic axial ratios ) , are also practically identical for the three salts .
The theory does not account at all for the considerable increase * Journ. Chem. Soc vol. 89 , p. 1120 ( 1906 ) , and 'Mineralog .
Mag vol. 14 , p. 235 , and vol. 15 , p. 42 Jo/ lrn .
Chem. Soc vo ] .
89 , p. 1675 ( 1906 ) ; vol. 91 , p. 1150 ( 1907 ) ; vol. 93 , p. 1528 ( 1908 ) .
X-Ray and Topic Axes of the Alkali Sulphates .
77 in molecular volume on passing from the potassium salt through the rubidium to the caesium salt , corresponding to the very considerable rise ( more than tripling ) in the atomic of the metal , and to the tripling of the atomic number , and indeed ignores it .
In their very first paper Barlow and Pope take*the case of the sulphates and selenates of potassium , rubidium , and caesium as an example of the working of their theory ; they omit all reference to ammonium sulphate , however .
They employ the author 's experimental data , and give a Table , which is reproduced below , of the " " equivalence parameters\ldquo ; , which they calculate like topic axial rabios , except that they use the sum of the valencies , the valency volume , instead of the author 's molecular volume to , gether with the author 's crystal-axial ratios .
It will appear from this Table that any one and the same parameter for the three different salts of each group ( sulphate or selenate ) remains almost unaltered .
average Barlow and Pope 's Equivalence Parameters difference shown by any one of the three parameters for the two extreme ( potassium and caesium ) salts of each group is less than 1 per cent. Indeed , the maximum difference over the whole six salts , that due to the replacement of sulphur by selenium , is only just 2 per cent. for the third parameter , and it is only 1 per cent. for the first parameter , and per cent. for the second parameter .
The real directional changes , however , as shown by the topic axial ratios ( Table on p. 80 ) , are 10 per cent. in either group , and 12 per cent. over the two groups from to , while the real change in total volume is as much as one-third .
In connection with this Table , Barlow and Pope say specifically that the interchangeable elements of the same group of the periodic system are represented by spheres of atomic influence of nearly the same size as compared with the sphere volumes of other constituents .
In the latest memoir , contributed by Mr. Barlow to the 'Mineralogical ' Journ. Chem. Soc vol. 89 , p. 1724 ( 1906 ) .
'Mineralog .
Mag vol. 17 , p. 314 ( 1916 ) .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Magazine , ' a disposition is shown , in referring to the first -ray results of Prof. , to admit that those results demonstrate the value of the constant , molecular olume .
For he states : " " When isomorphous substances of similar atomic composition are compared , close similarity of the pattern formed by the atomic centres of iven kind common to the compared bodies is associated with a marked difference of scale , viz. of actual dimensions .
Thus the distances the sulphur atoms in potassium sulphate will not be the same those separating the atoms in caesium sulphate ; corresponding dimensions of the two bodies will be approximately in the ratio of the cube roots of the respective molecular volumes Yet on the next , very ically , Mr. Barlow again recommends the use of the and Pope equivalence parameters to represent the changes , in which parameters not the molecular volume but the yalency volume ( identical for the whole series ) forms the volume factor , the result shown being consequently infinitesimal change .
Now , it will be at once apparent that if we replace by we shall , according to the valency volume theory , be replacing two unit volumes by 10 atoms of volume 14 , taking nitrogen at its lower triadic valency , and , therefore , as of volume 3 , and hydrogen as 1 , the whole salt then having a volume of 24 ; if nitrogen be pentadic , as is more logical and more in accordance with chemical facts , clearly four more units of volume must be added , making 28 .
That is , to the valency volume theory , and on the lower estimate , we double the volume , from 12 to 24 , on passing from rubidium sulphate to am1nonium sulphate .
This , however , has been shown by the author not to occur , but that , on the contrary , the volumes of the ammonium and rubidium salts are almost identical and closely congruent .
It has appeared to the author that in the -ray spectrometric analysis of crystals , brought to such perfection by Prof. W. H. and Mr. W. L Brag , * we have a new method of attack , which affords a crucial test of the validity , on the one hand , of the author 's conclusions based on his experimental results and the conceptions of molecular volume and topic axial ratios , and , on the other hand , of the valency volume theory of Barlow and Pope .
The author therefore ested to Prof. Brag that an X-ray analysis of the rhombic alkali sulphates and selenates would prove of extreme value ; Prof. happily concurred and arranged for such an analysis to be carried out in his laboratory , with crystals supplied by the author , many of them being the actual crystals employed in the author 's published investigations .
The ork has been carried out by Prof. A Ogg and Mr. F. Lloyd Hopwood , and a first paper of results has been published in 'Philo-rays and Crystal Structure , ' G. Bell and Sons , 1915 , 2nd edition , 1916 .
Topic Axes of the Sulphates .
79 sophical Magazine ' for November , 1916 , vol. 32 , p. 518 .
These results , it may be said at once , have proved conclusively that the atnmonlum and rubidium salts are , indeed , practically iso-structural , the actual dimensions ( absolute volumes and distances in space ) of the space-lattice elementary cells having been measured , and found to be precisely as closely identical as is indicated relatively by the molecular volumes and the topic axial ratios .
The dimensions for the potassium and caesium salts , moreover , are found to be considerably different , just as much so , in fact , as is by the molecular volumes and topic axial ratios for those salts .
The actual directional dimensions in space , as measured directly by the -ray spectroineter , are wonderfully close to the author 's values for the topic axial ratios .
These latter constants , therefore , are both justified and verified .
On the other hand , there can be no other conclusion than that the valency volume theory is not based on fact , and is fallacious , The actual numbers , both of the topic axial ratios and of the -ray spectrometric dimensions for the sulphates , are given in the accompanying Tables , an inspection of which cannot fail to be impressive and conclusive in the sense just indicated .
The important values to be compared are those in the right-hand portion of the second ( middle ) Table ( topic axes when for , ith the lengths of the sides of the unit rhomb in the third ( bottom ) Table .
The actual volumes in the last column of the bottom Table show very clearly the closeness of the volumes of the rubidium and ammonium salts , just as do the molecular volumes given in the first Table .
The actual lengths of the elementary cell edges given by Prof. and Mr. Hopwood , expressed in terms of cm .
, happen to be on the scale of 10 times greater than that of the relative distances given by the topic axial ratios ; indeed , if " " \ldquo ; be written after each of the author 's topic axial ratios when for , these latter relative values become converted Densities , Molecular Volumes and Crystal Axial Ratios ( Tutton ) .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Topic Axial Ratios Absolute Dimensions of Space-Lattice Cell ( Ogg and Hopwood ) .
into the actual distances in space .
Remembering this , the differences between the two sets of constants are wonderfully small , less than one in a thousand ( the actual differences varying from to per cent Too much stress must not be laid on this , however , as the actual numbers in the last resort depend on the angular values for the reflections observed in the X-ray spectrometer , a list of which is given by Prof. Ogg and Mr. Hopwood .
The agreement between these angles and tbose calculated from the figures in the third Table is amply adequate , however , to substantiate the facts stated .
The calculation of the of directly from the -ray measurements , given later on p. 83 as an example , afforded , for instance , the value , with a possible error not exceeding 1 in 500 .
Hence , the results are fully trustworthy .
The values given in the middle Table for the topic axial ratios , in which the unit is taken as the value for the first salt of the series , potassinm sulphate , are new ones now given for the first time , derived by use of the author 's latest determinations of the density of the crystals by the Betgers immersion method .
The values formerly however , which depended on the less trustworthy pyknometer density determinations , nowhere show appreciably greater differences from the -ray values , the boreatest being per cent. , as against per cent. in the case of the new values .
'Journ . .
Soc vol. 83 , p. 1067 ( 1903 ) .
Topic Axes of the Alkati Sulphates .
81 The formulae used in determining the topic axes of these rhombic crystals , referred to in the middle Table , were as under:\mdash ; where are the crystal-axial ratios and is the molecular volume .
They relate to the unit cell of ular rhombic form , that is , a rectangular brick-like block with three different edge-lengths , corresponding to the three crystal axes .
As topic axial ratios are relative , the author reduces them to their simplest form by dividing out by the value of the potassium salt , the first member of the series , the topic axial ratios in the case of this salt becoming then identical with the crystal-axial ratios .
Indeed , it has to be remembered that the topic axial ratios are in the same proportion to each other as the crystal-axial ratios , being modified correto molecular volume , so as to show how the latter is directionally distributed .
In the first paper on these sulphates , in the year 1894 , the author* pointed out that there was a considerable amount of evidence that the full crystal umit , the smallest edifice possessing the complete details of symmetry of the crystal structure and which ( considered as a point ) by its regular repetition affords the space-lattice , was composed of four molecules of .
Now , it is exceedingly interesting that Prof. and Mr. Hopwood find this to be a fact , indubitably indicated by their X-ray analysis .
The rectangular parallelepipedal cell , the edges of which are the of their measurements , is that formed by taking analogously situated atoms , whether these be metallic , sulphur , or oxygen atoms , one from each set of four molecules to act as their representative point .
In the author 's later papers the idea of the necessity for molecules at all in the crystal structure was not referred to , as the purely geometrical theory of crystal structure , now complete , regards the structure as essentially one of atoms .
But the author has always considered this to be carrying geometry too far , further than either the chemistry or the physics of the organised solid , the crystal , warrants .
It is a satisfaction , therefole , to find that the work of Prof. Brag and his colleagues now shows that there is a real advantage in and necessity for thus marking off the molecules , if only in order to obtain a correct idea of the structure which is essential to the crystal as such .
The work of Prof. Ogg and Mr. Hopwood is not yet complete as regards the details of the structure , but sufficient has been done to render it almost certain * Journ. Chem. Soc vol. 65 , p. 662 ( 1894 ) .
Dr. A. .
H. Tutton .
that the sulphur atoms are situated at the corners and centres of the faces of the unit cell , as shown in the accompanying .
Owing to the angles the centre of the face of the rhomb bounded by and edges being near , it is to be remarked that the sulphur atoms would thus exhibit a ) structure in planes parallel to the basal plane , the face ( 001 ) .
It is also stated in their paper as probable that the metallic atoms are also arranged in .
This is particularly interesting , for Fedorov has proposed a pseudo-hexagonal Arrangement of the sulphur structure for these rhombic ates , as being atoms in unit cell of spaceindicated by his crystallo-chemical analytical lattice of alkali sulphates .
of finding the method correct setting of crystals. .
In deference to this , the author*recalculated the topic axial ratios for such a pseudo-hexagonal space-lattice , using the new densities which had just been determined ; the points of the lattice were the same as for the rectangular lattice , but the diagonal distances between them were taken as forming four sides of the hexagon ( two equal pairs ) , along with one oi : the rectangular axial directions only , which furnished the other two sides ( one equal pair , but not quite equal to the others ) , such a lattice having angles of nearly exactly .
These facts are doubtless not unconnected with the remarkable manner in which the crystals often display a hexagonal ) sometimes by twinning ( as in the well-known triplets of potassium sulphate , which resemble short prisms doubly capped by pyramids ) , and sometimes by mere habit on the part of the crystals ( as in the case of the apparently hexagonal double pyramids of rubidium sulphate ) , the angles in the primary prism zone , formed by the faces of , being very nearly .
The pseudo-hexagonal topic axial ratios do not enable a comparison to be made with the measurements of Prof. and Mr. Hop- wood , hence the necessity for now hing the new values corresponding to the rectangular form .
The mode of arriving at the results of and Mr. Hopwood may be briefly described .
The actual distances between the centres of the atoms forming the corners of the rectangular elementary cell , or , in other 'Journ .
Chem. Soc vol. 87 , p. 1188 ( 1905 ) .
metallic or oxygen atoms may here be equally as well specified as the sulphul atoms , provided they are similarly analogously chosen , one from each set of four molecules ; for the same space-lattice applies in common , being formed by any representative analogous points , one from every structural uuit composed of four molecules .
-Ray Analysis Topic Axes of the .
83 words , the distances between the consecutive planes in each of the three sets of parallel planes of atoms corresponding to the faces of the three primary pinakoids ( 100 ) , ( 010 ) , and ( 001 ) , were obtained from the measurements of the angles of reflection of the -rays from these faces in reality from the interior planes of atoms parallel to the tces ) .
The now well-known equation is eluployed:\mdash ; where is the order of spectrum ( first , second , or third ) , is -length of the -radiation used ( in this case from a palladium anticathode ) , is the glancing angle of re{iection of the -rays , and is the distance in question between successive planes of atoms .
We have only to insert the observed value of the , the wave-length ( already determined by the use of the crystals best worked out by Prof. , such as the alkali chlorides , and confirmed by independent methods ) of the particular line of the of the radiation used , and the numerical order of the spectrum , in order at once to obtain the distance required .
For instance , when the value of for the line employed in the spectrum from the palladium anticathode used was , and the glancing for this radiation in the second order spectrum reflected from the ( 100 ) .
face of potassium sulphate was , the value of for planes of atoms parallel to this face was found to That this corresponds to a structural unit composed of four nlolecules is proved by the following:\mdash ; Molecular of , density Ratio of crystal-axes : 1 : NIass of the hydrogen atom Mass of unit rhomb of 4 molecules also grrIl .
Then from the known axial ratio values of we find cm .
, cm .
, cm .
Volume of unit rhomb The equality of the value of and that for obtained above shows that the assumption that there are four molecules of ] iu the elementary cell is correct .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
The work in Prof. 's laboratory on the corresponding selenates .
has been interrupted for the present , but , as the author 's values for the morphological constants on the same rectangular basis as regards the unit cell will be required when it is resumed , they are given in the two Tables on pp. As ards the valency volume theory , there is now much evidence , from the work of other ators , that the theory can no longer be entertained .
It has always appeared to the author to be unlikely to represent the truth .
Until , however , definite experimental evidence of a decisive character was , such as that now afforded by the -ray analysis , the author has not felt justified in expressing his views .
It appeared most unlikely that a theory could be correct which does not admit the undoubted very considerable increase in volume ( one-third of its bulk ) which occurs on replacing potassium in potassium sulphate by caesium , the equivalence parameters of Barlow and Pope showing an almost negligible change , as already pointed out connection with the Table of these parameters given on p. 77 .
A considerable increase was in any case to be expected , corresponding to the increase in complexity and in material content of the atom ( probably by the addition of further rings or other distributions of negative electrons , in accordance with Moseley 's law ) , indicated by the rise in atomic weight from to , and of the atomic number from 19 to 50- .
Yet , while taking practically no note of this , the theory asserts that volume of the atom , of the low atomic weight 16 and atomic number 8 , is twice as Jreat as that of the caesium atom , or whatever alkali atom is present in combination with the oxygen .
Moreover , it has been possible to put forward the theory only by the aid of what cannot be called anything else than quite rrantable arithmetical manipulation of the crystal-axial ratios , the arbitrary dividing or multiplying of certain ratios by various numbers to suit the exigencies of the theory .
This manipulation has been defended by the authors of the theory and is maintained and used extensively by Barlow in the very latest memoir on the subject , justifiable on the ground that a certain amount of arbitrariness exists in the choice of the crystal axial planes .
It is argued that planes corresponding to the manipulated ratios may be considered equally as valid for axial planes as those chosen by the rapher who measured the crystals .
This contention , however plausible , is not to be substantiated .
There is always some good reason for the choice of particular planes for axial planes , such as the fact that these planes were the vastly predominating ones developed as faces , and were 'Mineralog .
Mag vol. 17 , p. 314 ( 1916 ) .
Analysis and Topic Axes of the Atkali Sulphates .
85 parallel or otherwise definitely related to the cleavage planes discovered Moreover , Fedorov*has recently indicated means by which the proper setting of a crystal , which involves the proper choice of axial planes , can be checked and in doubtful cases determined , so that there is no tYer any excuse for the incorrect choice of these fundamental planes .
In general , the decision afforded by Fedorov 's method is given in favour of simplicity and low indices for the other planes developed on the crystal .
Barker , who has made a special study of Fedorov 's method , and has worked in his laboratory at Petrograd , has shown , however , in typical cases taken from among those put forward by Barlow and Pope , that the new crystal elelnents arrived at their manipulations lead in to greater complexity of the indices of the other faces , in some cases , indeed , rotesquely so .
This indicates the inherent improbability that the manipulation was justifiable .
Barker has further shown that ninety of the hundred examples put forward by the supporters of the theory are tainted with this arbitrary and rrantable manipulation of the axial ratios .
Further , that on the most ) fenerous basis uot more than five cases out of the hundred can in any sense be regarded as .
in consonance with it , and not one of them actually demands the theory as the sole or even the best explanation .
A very important contribution to the subject has also been made by Prof. Theodore Richards Harvard ) in two memoirs dealing with the subject which he has made his own , the compressibility toms .
He shows that the valency volume theory is directly opposed to the results of his investigations , and that it leads to extraordinary and highly improl ) able conclusions .
Richards , indeed , can find no plausible reason why each valency in a given compound should have the same volume .
He gives one remarkable illustration of the impossible situation in which the theory lands its supporters , that the relationship between beIJzene and tetrabromobenzene .
There is no reason why all the remaining carbon and atoms in benzene should nearly double their volume when four atoms of bromine are substituted for hydrogen , as the valency volume theory demands .
The more reasonable explanation , as all Kopp 's work shows , is that the atomic volume of bromine in combination is much larger than that of , as we should obviously expect it to be from its much greater atomic complexity ; but they are the same , each of unit volume , according to the valency volume theory .
Richards shows , moreover , that the most striking argument advanced by * E. S. Fedorov , 'Crystallochemical Analysis ' ( Russian ) , 1914 ; 'Zeitschr .
vol. 53 , p. 337 , and vol. 54 , p. 17(1914 ) .
'Journ .
Chem. Soc vol. 107 , p. 744 1915 ) .
'Journ .
Amer .
Chem. Soc vol. 35 , ( 1913 ) , and vol. 36 , p. 1686 ( 1914 ) .
Dr. A. .
H. Tutton .
Barlow and Pope , derived from the results of Le Bas for the moleoular volumes of the liquids of normal paraflins just above their points , is an entire fallacy .
He shows that ( quite apart from the fact that these are liqnids and not solids , and that an arbitrary temperature is chosen for the comparison ) the agreement between the molecular volumes and the calculated on the -Pope basis of vol. vol. , is no better than would occur on almost any other assumption .
For instance , if the volume of the carbon be taken as twice that of the hydrogen , the agreement is practicaJly as , and if carbon be taken as five times hydrogen , the yreement is twice as good .
memoirs of ichards are particularly interesting , and relevant to the qnestions raised in this communication , as they deal specifically with the isophism of the ammonium and potassium salts .
He considers its explanation quite beyond thel.each of the valency volume theory , ives to ammonium nine volumes ( accordin , to ichards , but seven according to Barlow and Pope , who take arbitrarily as triadic instead of pentadic ) , but to potassium only one volume .
He finds it hard to see how any sort of netry could be ucted in the two cases under the circumstances .
The work on collpressibility of atoms , however , that the five atoms up the radicle possess about the same as the potassium ( or , better still , according to the author 's work , rubidium ) atom , and are compressed by their mutual aflinities into a shape not unlike that occupied by the compressed and distorted alkali metallic atom .
Richards finally shows that the volume occupied by a solid is dependent on the uriable forces come into play , and which are not arbitrarily determined but are inherent in the atoms , and that every change in affinity must ) roduce its corresponding change in volume .
On the other hand , Barlow and Pope assume that the spheres of influence of atoms expand and contract to fit their theory of valency volumes , for which there is no plausible reason .
Their theory takes account of numerous facts such as : that less cohesive elements have large molecular volumes and large compressibilities ; that isomers the more volatile are also the more compressible , are less dense , and possess less surface tension and greater coefficients of expansion ; that , in general , the exhibition of greater chemical affinity involves , reater diminution in volume ; and the very large internal pressures which must exist in solids .
Indeed , Richards concludes that the doctrine of ency volume is irreconcilable with a broader view of the nature of solids and liquids and the mechanism of chemical change .
Barlow and Pope replied* to the first paper of Richards , but after the : .
Amer .
Chem. Soc , p. 1675 ( 1914 ) .
-Ray Analysis Topic Axes of the Alkali Sulphates .
87 second they published only a short note , which the statement was made that a weighty reason rendered further discussion at that time 1914 ) f.utile , namely , that the last year or two a method for the practical determination of crystal structure has been developed by Laue , and W. H. and W. L. Brag , which gives every promise of ultimately leading to very precise information the arrangement of the atoms in a crystalline structure . .
Further discussion may well be postponed until the important developments which are pronlised have had time to mature This time would appear now to have arrived , and the results of Prof. Ogg and Mr. Hopwood , obtained in the laboratory of Prof. , have furnished the crucial test , which is decisively against the valency volume theory .
Careful study of the melnoirs of Barlow and Pope , and of the expedients emplo.yed therein , leads to the anticipation of the possibility of the suggestion being put forward , to explain the now inlcontrovertibly proved isostructure of ammonium and rubidium sulphates , that although there are 24 valency volumes in and only 12 in , the actual spheres of lniC influence in the former are on a smaller scale than in the latter , namely , on a one-half scale , thus in the total the same volutne .
Such an assumption , however , would be even more arbitrary than that denounced by Richards in the case of tetrabromobenzene ; or than that which they made concerning the replacement of in KI by ( according to which the volume of the iodine suffers a shrinkage of five-sevenths of the bulk which it occupies in the potassium salt ) , and which has been by Barker to be most unreasonable .
Indeed , the assumption would .
not be merely arbitrary , but positively absurd .
In the openino words of his last memoir , communicated to the Royal Society only very shortly before his lamented demise , Sir William stated : " " It is now almosG universally acknowledged that the valency of an element is due to its being associated with one or more electrons This idea as to the nature of valency , which assigns a practical meaning , that of an attaching electron or electrons , the valence-electron , to the older idea of a " " bond is one which is rapidly developing from the great progress now being made in our knowledge of the nature of the atom , due very largely to the researches of Sir J. J. homson , Sir E. Rutherford , van den Broek , Bohr , and Moseley .
Indeed , it is a natural corollary to the beautiful structure of the atom , as we now know it from these researches ; and especially from the revelation in the work of Moseley ( unhappily his last ) 'Journ .
Amer .
Chem. Soc vol. 36 , p. 1694 ( 1914 ) .
' Journ. Chem. Soc vol. 101 , p. 2496 ( 1912 ) .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 92 , p. 461 ( 1916 ) .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
of the important function of the atomic number in corresponding to the positive nuclear charge , and thereby determining the number of negative satellite electrons in the electrically stable atom .
The idea of the valence-electron or electrons was most worked out by W. C. Arsem*in 1914 , and its logical outcome was to show that the valency of an atom is a natural result of the dynamic relations between molecules and the atoms of which they are composed .
We shall , doubtless , hear a reat deal more about this view of valency in the near future .
It is impossible to conceive , however , of any connection whatever between valency of such a nature and the volume of the atom or its sphere of influence .
On the other hand , the conception of atomic and molecular volumes , and their directional expression in topic axial ratios , is in complete harmony with this new knowledge of the structure of the atom .
Finally , the decisive result of the -ray analysis of the sulphates of the alkalis may be accepted as substantiating a truth which had already been indicated by a body of evidence , derived from all sides , namely , that the valency volume theory of Barlow and Pope has no foundation in fact .
On the other hand , the indications of the constants molecular volume and topic axial ratios , for the members of any isomorphous series of crystalline substances , are proved to express accurately the structural relations of such substances .
of Condusions .
1 .
An -ray spectrometric analysis of the orthorhombic crystals of the alkali sulphates , , where represents potassium , rubidium , caesium , and ammonium , carried out in the laboratory of Prof. W. H. by Prof. A. and .
F. Lloyd Hopwood , has indicated that four molecules of are contained in the unit rectangular cell of the space-lattice , as was suggested by the author in the year 1894 .
2 .
The atoms of sulphur occupy the corners of the rectangular cell and the middle point of each side ; they lie , therefore , in planes separated at distances equal to half the lengths of the sides .
The planes of sulphur atoms parallel to the ( 001 ) face ( the basal plane ) are of pseudo-hexagonal structure , the points ( atomic centres ) being arranged in nearly regular hexagons , a structure which has been suggested by Fedorov and adopted by the author ( Tutton ) .
The metallic atoms ( K. Rb , or Cs ) are also probably in nearly ular hexagons .
3 .
-ray spectrometric measurements , based on the accurate knowledge of -length of the -radiation employed ( a specific line in the radiation from a palladium anticathode ) , of the actual lengths ( absolute distances in ' Journ. Amer . .
Soc vol. 36 , p. 1655 ( 1914 ) .
X-Ra .
Analysis and Topic Axes of the Alkali Sulphates .
89 space ) of the edges of the rectangular orthorhombic cells of the spacelattice ( dlstances apart of the centres of the atoms in the three rectangular axial directions , or of the metallic or oxygen atoms , when similarly analogously chosen , that is , one from each set of four molecules to represent the crystal unit ) , agree perfectly with the topic axial ratios for these salts determined by the author .
A new series of the latter constants is now published for the ular space-lattice , based on later , more refined density determinations than those given in 1903 ; both the old and the new values are in excellent reement with the -ray measurementQ .
4 .
The congruency or close approximation to identity of the structures of rubidium and ammonium sulphates , indicated by the molecular volumes and topic axial ratios published by the autnol ( not only for these simple sulphates , but for every pair of double sulphates and selenates iu which the bases rubidium and ammonium , as in the example of ammonium nickel and rubidium nickel selenates brought forward in a separate paper* ) , is thus confirmed by absolute measurement by the -ray spectrometric method .
The absolute volumes of the unit cells of the space-lattices of the two salts are within 1 per cent. of identity , just as are the molecular volumes , and the absolute lengths of the three edges for the two salts are correspondingly close to each other , and in a manner precisely like that shown by the topic axial ratios .
5 .
It is thus fully substantiated that the constants molecular volume and topic axial ratios afford true indications of the relative volume and dimensions of the elementary space-lattice cells , in the cases of the crystal structures of isomorphous series .
6 .
As the volume of the unit cell of ammonium sulphate should be at least twice that of rubidium sulphate according to the valency volume theory of Barlow and Pope ( that is , if we assume triadic valency for nitrogen , since the sums of the fundamental valencies of and are respectively 24 and 12 ) , and more than twice if nitrogen be pentadic ( the volumes then being 28 to 12 ) , whereas the volumes of the unit cells of the two salts are now proved by direct -ray measurement to be nearly identical , it is obvious that the valency volume theory does not represent a law of nature .
A crucial test thus now been applied , and the decision is against the theory .
* See preceding Abstract .

