44.2 On NitrogenizedMatter in the Atmosphere .
[ June 20 , IX .
" On the Physical Nature of the Coagulation of the Blood/ ' Alfred Hutchison Smee , F.C.S. , P.S.S. Communicated by Alfred Smee , P.R.S. Received May 27 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) After passing in review the principal opinions hitherto entertained on the real nature of the coagulation of the blood , the author states that he is led to refer the solidification of fibrin in the process of coagulation to the same class of phenomena as the pectization of colloid liquids , as aheady hinted by the late Professor Graham and others .
He points out at considerable length the chief circumstances which influence the change in colloidal fluids , and proceeds to compare the properties of colloid silica with an organic body of the nature of fibrin .
X. " On the Detection of Organic and other Nitrogenized Matter existing in the Atmosphere .
" By Alfred Hutchison Smee , F.C.S. , P.S.S. Communicated by Alfred Smee , P.R.S. Received June 1 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author describes a method which he has devised , and which he names " distillation by cold , " by which lie believes the detection and determination of ammonia and other organic impurities existing in the atmosphere will be greatly facilitated .
A glass funnel ( usually of 8 or 9 inches ) is drawn to a point and closed .
It is supported in an ordinary stand , and filled with ice .
Condensation of the watery vapour of the atmosphere then takes place ; the dew collects into drops , which trickle down the outside of the funnel , and at last fall from the point , under which a small receiver is placed to catch them .
The total quantity of liquid collected in a given time is measured , and the quantity of ammonia determined by Nessler 's test .
_ By the method of distillation by cold , the author found it possible to distil many substances which are decomposed at a high temperature .
Thus many delicate odours of flowers were distilled by placing the flowers under a bell-glass sufficiently large to cover the funnel containing t \#174 ; ice .
The odours were found to be more rapidly and completely abstrac e by placing a dish with a little ether under the bell-glass at the time o distillation .
i , .
din The paper was accompanied by Tables giving the results obtains ^ 107 experiments , together with the atmospheric conditions prevailing ^ the time .
The experiments were made in a garden , in a bed-room , ^ hospital wards , in the open country , \amp ; c. A few of the numbers obtaine are here given by way of example:\#151 ; 1872 .
] On Extraordinary Refraction in Iceland Spar .
Fluid collected in minims .
Ammonia in grains per gallon .
1*9712 .1791 6-8807 2-1000 2-9568 .0985 Source .
Erysipelas .
Garden .
Drains .
Bed-room .
Stables .
Victoria Park .
XI .
" Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism.\#151 ; No. XIII .
" By General Sir Edward Sabine , K.C.B. , V.P.R.S. Received June 19 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The author presents this paper as the companion of No. XI .
of his Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism , which contained the Magnetic Survey of the Southern Hemisphere from 40 ' south latitude to the extreme limit towards the southern pole , as does the present memoir , No. XIII .
of the same series , the three magnetic elements from 40 ' north latitude to the furthest attained limit towards the northern pole .
In both papers the mean epoch is the same , viz. 1842-5 .
Where it has been possible to do so , corrections to this mean epoch have been obtained and applied to earlier and later observations .
The determinations are derived from observers of all countries , and are arranged in zones , each of 5 ' of latitude , passing round the globe .
The Table thus formed contains between 3000 and 4000 stations at which the magnetic elements have been determined .
The observers are named , and references are made to the sources from whence their observations are taken .
The paper is accompanied by maps of the resulting Isogonic , Isoclinal , and Isodynamic Lines , executed at the Hydrographic Office .
XII .
" On the Law of Extraordinary Refraction in Iceland Spar .
" By G. G. Stokes , M.A. , Sec. R.S. Received June 20 , 1872 .
It is now some years since I carried out , in the case of Iceland spar , the method ol examination of the law of refraction which I described in my report on Double Refraction , published in the Report of the British .
Ss'ciation for the year 1862 , p. 272 .
A prism , approximately right-angled isosce es , was cut in such a direction as to admit of scrutiny , across the acute angles , in directions of the wave-normal within the crystal composing lespectively inclinations of 90 ' and 45 ' to the axis .
The directs ^ ' ^ *e CU^ ^aces were referred by reflection to the cleavage-planes , and m^-by to the axis .
The light observed was the bright D of a soda-flame .
vol 6 reSU^ 'bfained was , that Huygens 's construction gives the true law

