]\gt ; [ 457 ] XI .
Gravitational and the Nebutar Hypothesis .
J. H. , F.R.S. Received October 22 , \mdash ; Read November 27 , 1913 .
Introduction .
S1 .
A CONSIDERATION of the processes of cosmogony demands an extensive knowledge of the behaviour of rotating astronomical matter .
What knowledge we have is based upon the researches of MACLAURIN , JACOBI , POINCARE , and DARWIN .
These researches refer solely to matter which is perfectly homogeneous and incompressible , although it is , of course , known that the primordial astronomical matter must be far from homogeneous and probably highly compressible as well .
The question of how far we are justified in attributing to real matter the behaviour which is found to be true for incompressible and homogeneous matter is obviously one of great importance .
S2 .
There are a priori reasons for expecting that there will be wide differences between the two cases .
Consider first a sphere of homogeneous incompressible matter devoid of rotation .
This will be stable if every small displacement increases ( or , at least , does not decrease ) its potential energy .
The sphere has a number of independent possible small displacements which can be measured by the number of harmonics which can be represented on its surface .
The spherical configuration is known to be stable because it can be shown that every one of these displacements increases the potential energy .
Contrast this case with the corresponding one in which the matter is compressible .
The number of possible small displacements in this latter case is measured by the sum of the numbers of harmonics which can be represented on all th .
sphericed surfaces inside the sphere .
Let be the radius of the outer surface ; let be the radii of all the spheres which can be drawn inside this outer sphere , and let be the number of independent harmonics which can be represented on these spheres .
To prove that the sphere is stable it is now necessary to prove that every one of the possible displacements creases the potential energy .
If we argue by analogy from the case of an incompressible sphere we are , in effect , merely considering of these displacements and neglecting the much greater number .
Furthermore , in these neglected displacements , the nature of the displacement is essentially different from that in the VOL. CCXIII .
Published soparately , February 2 , 1914 .
displacements , so that there appears to be no justification at all for an argument from analogy .
In each of the neglected displacements , the change in the potential energy will consist of two terms .
There will be a change in the elastic energy of the compressible material , and this can be easily shown to involve an increase in the potential energy .
There will , in addition , be a change in the gravitational energy , and this can be shown*to involve invariably a decrease in the energy .
If denote the total , the elastic , and the gravitational potential energies , in which is invariably negative .
The condition for stability is that for every possible displacement shall be numerically greater than It might naturally be thought that by considering a system in which the matter was , so to speak , very gravitational or very little elastic we could have small or great , and so should have instability of the spherical configuration .
But it must be remembered that the gravitation and the elasticity of the matter are not independently at our disposal .
The action of the gravitational forces tends to concentrate the matter and so involves that the elasticity becomes large in the equilibrium configuration .
If we consider a system in which the elasticity is artificially kept small , as , for instance , by adding an additional repulsive field of force to annul , or partially annul , the gravitational field , we can easily construct systems for which a spherical configuration is unstable , but , short of this , it appears to be a general law that the elastic and gravitational agencies must march together in such a way that is always numerically greater than so that every natural spherical system is stable .
The nearest approach in nature to the artificial repulsive field agined above is found in the influence of rotation .
This influence may be represented by the super .
position of the usual repulsive field of centrifugal force of potential - .
The field is not spherical , and so the figures of equilibrium obtained under its influence cannot be spherical .
But it can be regarded as made up of a spherical part and a superposed harmonic disturbance .
The first term is certainly a spherical repulsive field , and will , of course , tend to annul the concentrating influence of gravitation .
The problem which requires study is that of how far , or in what circumstances , the presence of rotation can disturb the otherwise general law that is always greater than The problem is one of enormous complexity and great generality .
It will hardly be expected that the present paper will contain anything approaching a general *Cf .
J. H. JEANS , ' The Stability of a Spherical Nebnla ' Phil. Trans , vol. 199 , p. 1 .
Cf .
J. H. JEANS , ' On the Vibrations and Stability of a Gravitating Planet 'Phil .
Trans vol. 201 , p. 157 .
Cf .
below , $ 11 , 22 .
AND NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
solution , and it may as well be stated at once that it does not .
All I have been able to do is to grope after general principles by solving a problem here and a problem there as seemed needful to illuminate a possible path towards a general theory , and the present paper is confined to a very few of the special problems I have considered , but I have selected those which seemed to have most bearing on the general question in hand .
Mediurn in which .
the is of th Density .
S3 .
In the most general astronomical medium the pressure is , of course , not a function of the density .
The relation between pressure and density varies from point to point , partly on account of inequalities of temperature and partly on account of variations of chemical constitution .
But no general theory can be expected to apply to the most general heterogeneous mass of matter possible , and before any general theory can be deduced we must have material from which to deduce it .
S4 .
The simple system from which we shall start will be a system in which the matter is homogeneous as regards its properties , so that at all points the pressure and density will be connected by the same relation .
It will be seen later ( S15 ) how it is possible , in least one important respect , to escape from this limitation .
For the present we assume the pressure and density to be nected by the relation . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) at every point .
We take the centre of gravity of the rotating mass to be the origin , and the axis of rotation to be the axis of .
The equations of equilibrium are ' in which V is the potential of the whole gravitational field of force .
In virtue of relation ( 1 ) , these equations have the common integral .
( 2 ) or ( 3 ) in which stands for , and for , which is by hypothesis a function of only .
There is further the relation of POISSON , , . . . . . . . .
( 4 ) so that on operating on ( 3 ) with we obtain , . . . . .
( 5 ) the differential equation which must be satisfied by in any configuration of equilibrium under a rotation S5 .
In general a solution of equation ( 5 ) will involve negative and zero values of In the physical problem will be limited as to values , and this limitation will determine the physical boundary of the rotating mass .
Let denote the gravitational potential at any point in space of the finite mass determined in this way .
We have found a configuration of equilibrium under a potential V , the potential of the mass is , so that for equilibrium we require an additional field of potential .
We can say that the configuration found will be a true configuration of equilibrium under an external field of force of potential such that . . . . . .
( 6 ) And , inasmuch as , it is clear that , so that the external field has poles only at the origin or at infinity .
The condition that any solution shall lead to a configuration of equilibrium for a mass rotating free from external influence is , of course , S6 .
The simplest solution of equation ( 5 ) is obviously that in which is a function of only , but it is clear from ( S ) that this cannot give a free solution except when S7 .
The next simplest form of solution is that in which is a function of and only , and this can give a free solution .
It includes , of course , as a particular case the system of Maclaurin spheroids .
For this class of solutions every section at right angles to the axis of is circular , and in any such section the lines of equal density are circles .
The density at any point is of the form .
Let denote colatitude measured from Oz , and let be azimuth measured from the plane of .
The most general configuration which can be obtained by displacement of that just considered will have a law of density of the form It is easily seen that the separate cosine terms lead to displacements , and we shall for the moment only consider the displacement of the first order , for which the law of density is , . . .
( 7 ) where is a small quantity of the first order .
AND THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
The boundary being a surface of constant pressure must also be a surface of constant density , say .
The equation of the boundary is accordingly . . . . .
( 8 ) The whole mass inside this boundary may be regarded as composed of coaxial rings of matter as follows .
Inside the figure of revolution , we suppose there to be a series of rings of density given by ( 7 ) , while the surface inequality can be regarded as represented by the presence of rings on this figure of revolution of density proportional to On integration the potential at any external point is seen to be of the form , . . . . .
( 9 ) where are functions of and only .
Suppose now that the surface is so nearly spherical that spherical harmonic analysis may be used with reference to it , then , since V , , is a solution of LAPLACE'S equation at all external points , and is also of the form ( 9 ) , it must be of the form , ( 10 ) where , and is the usual tesseral harmonic .
Moreover , since the centre of gravity of the mass is supposed to coincide with the origin , must vanish .
We have , from equation ( 3 ) , if at all internal points .
Equating these two expressions , we must have at the boundary .
, or , neglecting small quantities of the second order , .
( 11 ) Hence either vanishes at the boundary or is of at least the order of harmonics .
It follows that if there can be a configuration of equilibrium which differs from the configuration of revolution , by a displacement proportional to the first harmonic , this configuration must be one in which vanishes at the boundary , so that the boundary must be a figure of revolution about the axis of rotation .
It now follows from ( 3 ) that V must be a function of and only on the boundary , and hence also ( since is harmonic ) at all external points .
It follows that , and hence also , are functions of only at the boundary .
Whence again , by equations ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , it follows that and are functions only of and at the boundary .
And , by successive differentiation of equations ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , it is seen that all the differential coefficients of V and are functions only of and at the boundary .
It can be seen from thi that the configuration must be one of revolution throughout .
In other words , there can be no configuration of equilibrium which differs from the configuration of revolution by first harmonic terms only .
LAPLACE'S S8 .
I have not found that any progress worth recording can be made with the general relation , so that progress can only be hoped for by examining special cases .
case that suggests itself as most important is that of the gas law satisfied in a perfectly gaseous nebula at uniform temperature .
The difficulty is that such a nebula extends to infinity in all directions , and so cannot rotate as a rigid body .
Or rather , when it is caused to rotate , it throws off its equatorial portions and the remainder rotates in the shape of an elongated spindle of infinite length .
In this connection I have worked out the purely two-dimensional problem of a rotating gaseous cylinder of infinite length .
The results are too long to be.worth printing ; it will , perhaps , suffice to record that the analysis bears out in full the conclusions arrived at in this paper .
The law which is most amenable to mathematical treatment is LAPLACE'S law , or , as it is more convenient to write it , , ( 12 ) in which , and are constants , being the value of the density at the free * I have not succeeded in obtainJng ' a rigorous proof of this .
It might be objected that nothing in the above argument precludes first harmonic terms proportional to such a function as , where is the equation of the boundary .
The pure mathematician may not , although the as tronomer will , be influenced by the consideration that such functions never occur iu natural problems .
If such a function did occur , it would involve an extremely fantastic relation between and AND THE NEBULAR YPOTHESIS .
surface .
This law has the merit that the case of an incompressible fluid is covered by the special value or , the density now having the value throughout .
There is the objection to the law that its form precludes first harmonic displacements ( cf. below , S11 ) .
This objection would be fatal were it not that we have seen that first harmonic displacements are in any case of no importance .
This being so , the objection falls to the ground , and I have thought it worth working out this law as far as possible .
S9 .
Usin the relation ( 12 ) , we have in place of the more general equations ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , and ( 5 ) , the particular equations , ( 13 ) , . . . . . . . . .
( 14 ) .
( 15 ) On putting , ( 16 ) this last equation reduces to .
( 17 ) No Rotation .
S10 .
When there is no rotation and the equation becomes The general solution is .
( 18 ) while the particular solution giving a spherical boundary is , ( 19 ) the last being , of course , the well-known solution which occurs in LAPLACE'S theory of the figure of the earth .
It will now be shown that this configuration is stable for all displacements .
S11 .
Let be the free surface corresponding to the simple solution ( 19 ) .
Consider an adjacent solution , . . .
( 20 ) and let the corresponding free surface be . . . . . . . . . . .
( 21 ) On substituting this value for in ( 20 ) , neglecting squares of and equating corresponding harmonic terms , we obtain , . . . . .
( 22 ) .
( 23 ) whence . . . . . .
( 24 ) By integration , the value of at a point on the sphere is found to be while the value of V , given by equation ( 13 ) , is cons .
If we put we obtain , after some reduction , .
( 25 ) In general , this gives the value of which determines the tide raised by a field of potential proportional to .
We notice that when or independently of the values of .
This merely expresses the obvious fact that there can be no equilibrium at all so long as the fluid is acted on by a force proportional to a harmonic of the first order .
If it is possible for there to be a configuration of equilibrium when , other than that given by , this configuration will of course determine a point of bifurcation series of symmetrical configurations .
The points of bifurcation are accordingly given by , or by .
( 26 ) For brevity in printing , let us introduce the function defined by .
( 27 ) AND THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
Neal ; the value of is , and successive 's satisfy the difference-equation . . . . . . . . .
( 28 ) With the help of these properties it is easy to draw approximate graphs of the curves .
Such a graph , for values of up to the first zero of is represented in fig. 1 , in which the vertical scale is times the horizontal scale .
Fig. 1 .
Graphs of the functions In terms of these functions , the points of bifurcation are given by .
It is at once evident that there is no root of this equation for values less than , and therefore ( cf. equation ( 19 ) ) no point of bifurcation at all so long as is restricted to being always positive .
It follows that the spherical is stable for all displacements .
Rotation .
S12 .
When the fluid experiences a slight rotation , the configuration is of course slightly flattened .
The.appropriate solution of equation ( 17 ) is ( 29 ) VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. 3 where is the second zonal harmonic about the axis of rotation as .
Assuming the free surface to be , . . . . .
( 30 ) the equations analogous to ( 22 ) , ( 23 ) , .and ( 24 ) are found to be , ( 31 ) , . . . . .
( 32 ) .
( 33 ) Let be given by , then , instead of equation ( 25 ) , we have , ( 34 ) in which constant terms are omitted , and the value is taken on the sphere For a configuration of equilibrium under no external field of force we must have , and therefore in equation ( 34 ) equal to .
Neglecting squares of , and therefore omitting the factor in the denominator , the equation becomes , . . . . .
( 35 ) giving in terms of , when is small .
It will be readily verified that this equation is identical with that obtained by THOMSON and TAIT ( ' Not .
Phil S824 , equation ( 14 ) ) .
S13 .
We next examine the solution , ( 36 ) which is appropriate to a mass of fluid having a rotation given by equation ( 35 ) , and acted on by a field of force of potential .
By analysis exactly similar to that just given , we obtain at . .
( 37 ) AND THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
This gives for the general tide raised by the field .
The condition for a point of bifurcation is , or . . . . . . . . . .
( 38 ) Thus the points of bifurcation , if any , are still determined by the intersections of the graphs in fig. 1 , except that the graph of must be supposed decreased vertically in the ratio to 1 .
We may , if we please , imagine that we start with very small rotation , and allo the rotation progressively to increase , this increase being accompanied in imagination by a greater and greater flattening of the graph of It is clear that under all circumstances the curve which will first be intersected by the flattened graph of will be the graph of .
It is further clear that the requisite value of is least when , and progressively increases as increases , at any rate up to This means that in the first place the circular vibration will invariably become unstable through a vibration proportional to a second harmonic , so that the first point of bifurcation reached will be one such that the spheroidal form gives place to an ellipsoidal form .
If the rotation is so small that the problem may be treated as a statical one , there will be no question as to there being an actual exchange of stabilities at the point of bifurcation , for clearly changes sign at this point .
Thus for rotation greater than that at the point of bifurcation , the spheroidal form will be definitely unstable , and the ellipsoidal form definitely stable , at least until the next point of bifurcation is reached .
Our result shows , in the second place , that the masses which become ellipsoidal for the smallest values of are those for which is smallest .
To put it briefly , the mass which is most unstable when it begins to rotate is the incompressible mass\mdash ; a somewhat unexpected result .
For any value of , the value which must have for the spheroidal form to become unstable is ( cf. equation ( 38 ) ) , ( 39 ) and when , the value of ( cf. S4 ) .
Thus our equations would make the spheroidal mass of incompressible fluid first become unstable when , but these equations have only been obtained on the supposition that is so small that its squares may be neglected , a supposition which is now seen a posteriori to be hardly admissible .
Probably the results obtained are qualitatively true , but quantitatively unreliable .
In point of fact the first point of bifurcation for an incompressible mass , instead of being given by , is known to be given by the widely different value Our analysis has nevertheless proved rigorously the point which is really most important , namely , that there can be no point of bifurcation at all for quite small values of .
At the same time , since the question of when and how a rotating mass first becomes unstable is one of considerable importance , I have attempted to obtain a more reliable investigation than the preceding .
I have found that the accuracy is not greatly improved by taking the analysis as far as squares , while the labour of working with a general power series would be appalling .
I have , therefore , reluctantly been compelled to give up hopes of carrying the rigorous solution of the problem further in this direction , but have thought it worth while to examine the analogous problem for rotatin cylindrical masses .
All the essential physical features of the natural three-dime1lsional problem appear to be reproduced in the simpler cylindrical problem , so that it seems legitimate to hope that an argument by analogy may not lead to entirely erroneous result .
Masses in Rotation .
S14 .
The fundamental equations are , of course , the first two of the equations already written down in S3 .
The third equation does not occur , since .
The equations have , as before , the integral ( 13 ) leading to the differential equation ( 15 ) for The most general solution possible will be , ( 40 ) in .
now stands for .
No matter how great the rotation , there is always a special circular solution , . . . . .
( 41 ) this being analogous to the spheroidal figures of equilibrium investigated in S12 .
Let us examine the deformed solution , ( 42 ) in which is supposed small , but there are no restrictions on the value of .
If the free surface is supposed given by ( cf. equations ( 21 ) and ( 30 ) ) AND THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
then , as in equations ( 31 ) and ( 32 ) , and must satisfy .
( 43 ) , whence ( 44 ) The potential of the mass , , can be regarded as arising from a distribution of density inside the cylinder , together with a surface density spread over the surface of the cylinder .
The first part of the potential , evaluated at , is terms independent of terms independent of The potential of the surface distribution is so that , at erms independent of while , by equation ( 5 ) , If , as before , we express the tide-generating potential in the form , we obtain for the value of , at ( 45 ) It will be seen that this equation is exactly analogous to the former equation ( 37 ) , .
J. H. JEANS ON GRAVITATIONAL INSTABILITy but with the important difference that the present equation is true for all values of , without limit .
The points of bifurcation are given by , or , ( 46 ) which again is exactly analogous to the former equation ( 38 ) .
The graphs of the functions will found to lie as in fig. 2 , and we may again imagine that Fig. 2 .
Graphs of the functions points of bifurcation are sought by flattening the curve until it intersects the other curves .
It is clear that , under all circumstances , the first curve to be intersected will be the curve , corresponding to a displacement proportional to .
Thus , as before , when the circular form becomes unstable , it gives place to a form of elliptic cross-section , which is stable .
Moreover , the smaller is the lower the value of for which the circular form becomes unstable .
These results are true without any regard to the value of , so that they confirm the results stated , but not rigorously proved , in S5 .
The numerical calculations which follow will make the matter clearer .
If denotes the mean density of the rotating mass , the total mass per unit length is given by AND THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
giving , on substitution from equation ( 43 ) , , whence , for the ratio of to , we have the general formula .
For the particular configuration which occurs at a point of bifurcation , so that whence we obtain In the following table I have calculated the values of and of for which of different radii and compressibility first become elliptical in cross section:\mdash ; It will be seen that the general result is fully confirmed , incompressible masses are the first to become unstable , and that the more compressible the mass is , the greater is the rotation required for it to depart from a symmetrical co1lfiguration .
liotatiw nearly Mass High Internal S15 .
We now leave the artificial two-dimensional problem and return to the real problem in three dimensions discussed in S13 .
The coefficient was there assumed to have the same value throughout the mass , as of course it would if the matter were homogeneous and of uniform temperature hfIt .
J. H. JEANS ON GRAVITATIONAL INSTABILITY throughout .
But to represent natural astronomical conditions there is no question that to increase on passing from the centre to the surface , thus representing a mass in which the temperature is highest inside and falls towards the surface .
We are in this way led to study the question of stability when is a function of It would be difficult to say precisely what function ought to be chosen if we were trying to represent conditions as faithfully as possible .
It appears , however , that no continuous function will lead to equations which admit of integration .
The only case which appears to be soluble is that in which the matter , before rotation , may be treated as if formed of a series of different layers , each being homogeneous and at a uniform temperature in itself , but the temperature varying from layer to lay , er .
To represent this we take different values of in the different layers , being smallest in interior .
There is no limit to the number of layers which can be treated analytically , but the assumption of a great number of layers naturally leads to highly complicated formulae which are capable of conveying their meaning only after laborious numerical calculations .
Both in order to obtain comprehensible results and to simplify the argument , the layers will , in what follows , be supposed to be only two in number .
They may ently be referred to as the core and the crust .
It will be found possible to generalize the results obtained so as to apply to any number oflayers .
S16 .
We accordingly suppose that there is an interior core of radius , in which the coefficient of compressibility has the uniform value , and that outside this is the crust of external radius , in which the coefficient is .
It is again necessar to suppose the rotation to be so small that may be neglected .
As in S3 , the density must satisfy ( 47 ) throughout the core , and the same equation with the appropriate value throughout the crust .
The most general solution of equation ( 47 ) is .
( 48 ) In the former problem all the terms in could be omitted because } to be finite at the origin .
In discussing the solution for the crust these terms must be retained .
The solution can , however , be put in a more concise form .
Let the constants be replaced by new constants given by and let us introduce a function defined by . . . .
( 49 ) AND Then the solution ( 48 ) may be replaced by ( 50 ) which is formally analogous to ( 7 ) .
The following properties of the function may readily be verified .
and will be required later:\mdash ; , . . . .
( 51 ) .
( 52 ) .
( 53 ) There is a ready rule for writing down the values of these functions .
In the first place , we have so that Now let be used to denote a general function made up of circular functions of and of algebraic functions of .
Then is of the form , and any number of differentiations with respect to , or of multiplications by powers will still leave it in this form .
It follows from ( 52 ) that ) , \amp ; c. , will be of this form .
Hence we have the general law , . . . . .
( 54 ) in which the functional form of 1 ) is at once given by .
instance , so that S17 .
We proceed to carry out analysis similar to that of S13 .
Suppose that under a tide-generating potential ?
) , and a rotation , the core assumes a configuration such that its boundary becomes deformed into , . . . . . . . .
VOL. XIIr , .
J. H. JEANS ON GRAVITATIONAL INSTABILITy while the outer suriace becomes ( 56 ) Let us suppose the densities in the two layers to be ( 57 ) in the core , ( 58 ) in the crust .
The boundary between the two layers must clearly be an equipotential , and therefore a surface of constant pressure and density .
Let be the densities at this boundary in the core and crust respectively .
On replacing by in equations ( 57 ) and ( 58 ) , the values of must become and respectively .
This leads to the relations , ( 59 ) , ( 60 ) 7 ) , ( 61 ) .
( 62 ) From similar analysis applied to the outer boundary , if is now the density at this boundary , , . . . . .
( 63 ) . .
( 64 ) Similar , of course , connect the coefficients which depend on the rotation .
The value of at a point o11 the sphere can now be written down , as S11 , and is found to be , ( 66 ) AND BULAR HYPOTHESIS .
in which the rotaT tel.ms proportional to the second harmonic are omitted and is given . . .
( 66 ) The of V at is , from equation ( 1.3 ) , V , ( 67 ) whence , eyaluating and out the coefficient of , we find as the of at . . . . . .
( 68 ) As before , the points of bifurcation , if any , itre given by S18 .
It is now necessary to consider the boundary conditions which must be satisfied at the junction of the two layers .
The condition of continuity of material , , that the inner surface of the crust shall coincide with outer surface of the core , has been expressed in equation ( 55 ) , l ) and being the same for both and crust .
There is an equation of continuity of pressure expressed by which is now used to represent the density associated with zero ssure .
Finally , there is a condition of continuity of normal force and this requires careful discussion .
Let denote the nlass of matter actually , the core and let denote its potential at any point outside the core .
Let denote the lnass which would replace the core if the solution ( 58 ) for the crust were extended to the centre and let denote the potential of this mass at any external .
It will be noticed that if solution ( 58 ) were extended to the origin , it would give infinite ity at the origin also an infinite value of in virtue of equation ( 5 ) .
On other hand , it is readily found , by direct the potential of the mass , is finite at every point , the origin .
It follows that can only be the potential of this imaginary al.rangenlent of matter when it is acted on by certain external forces of which the potential becomes infinite at the origin .
Let represent the potential of these forces .
The value of is readily found , for it lnnst satisfy , and must coincide with or with to within an additive constant at the origin .
Thus is the limit of the ri -hand side of equation ( 67 ) MR. J. H. ON INSTABILITY replacing .
This is found to be V The condition now to be satisfied , clearly that at all on the } requires that , shall to constant , at all points outside this boundary , and therefore , in particular , It will be eadily seen that while V : , is exactly the value of the terms in that involve , when is put equal to zero .
The conditions sought are , therefore , simply that all the terms in which occur in shall vanish at every point of the sphere .
S19 .
We may now equate the coefficients of the separate harmonics , and obtain , ( 70 ) .
( 71 ) On account of the simplifications made possible by these equations , equation ( 68 ) be put in the form .
( 72 ) The elimination of and from ( 59 ) , ( 60 ) , and ( 70 ) gives , ( 73 ) while ilarly the elimination of and from ( 61 ) , ( 62 ) , and ( 71 ) gives .
( 74 ) For brevity we introduce a function , a generalisation of the of S11 , the AND NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
new function being by Equations ( 73 ) and ( 74 ) now become , ( 75 ) while ( 72 ) becomes so that points of bifurcation are give by .
( 78 ) Again , if the rotation may be treated as small , there will variably be a change of stability at these points of bifurcation , since changes sign on passing through one of them .
S20 .
It is at once clear that the method can be extended to a mass consisting of number of layers\mdash ; the only difFiculty occurs in the numel.ical computations at the end .
At each boundary betweet ] two consecutive layers there will be equations of continuity precisely similar to ( 75 ) and ( 76 ) , while the final value of will be given by an equation exactly similar to ( 77 ) , which it will be seen involves only quantities associated with the outer boundary .
The procedure in any particulal will be to start , so to speak , with the innermost core of the systenl .
Equation ( 75 ) is linear in and so that is uniquely determined .
out of account systems in which the density is , in any part , negative , this will be found to be adequate to deterlnine uniquely .
Equation ( 76 ) now becolnes linear equation in and which call be determined uniquely .
In this way , passing from layer to layer , we can the various values of for the different layers .
Finally , the and 's being known , equation ( 78 ) caIl be regarded either as equation for or an equation for , i.e. , it can be regarded either as determining the highest rotation for which the symmetrical configuration is stable for give value of or determining the largest value of or which the mass is stable under a give rotation .
If the value of obtained by the first method is not small , the result will ) ; if the value for obtained by the second is so great that the density is in places negative , the result will be of no interest except as proving stability for smaller values of S21 .
It be well to take a general survey of the equations before giving special calculations .
For simplicity we again lsider two layers only , core and crust .
From ( 75 ) and ( 76 ) it is clear that , when or ( involving the values of and vanish .
king , the more distinct the core is from the crust , the larger and quation ( , of course , differs only from the corresponding equation found , by the presence of terms .
The effect of these tel.tns is seen on noticing that , in the otatio already used , is of the form .
, to allow for the of the core on the term ?
, we have to leave the algebraic part of the function unaltered , but to all the trigonometrical arguments from to .
Speaking very broadly , the general effect on the graph of ( cf. fig. 1 ) is a compromise between leaving the graph unaltered and moving it bodily a along the axis .
Similar statements apply to the graph of .
Thus , while rotation as before is represented by flattening the graph of in fig. 1 , the presence of a core is represented by a distortion of the graphs which may , with some truth , be thought of as bodily movements parallel to the axis .
These bodily movements may cause new intersections between the graph and the other graphs , and the points of intersection will points of bifurcation at which the symmetrical co1lfiguration will become unstable .
No ldotation .
S22 .
The case that may properly be inspected first is that of no rotation .
The equations reduce to , . . . . .
79 , ( 80 ) and , the equation for points of bifurcation , . . . . . .
( 81 ) When , it is seen that is a solution of ( 80 ) , and must therefore ( S20 ) be the only solution .
To verify that is a solution , replace by in ( 80 ) and it becomes , . . . . .
( 82 ) which is seen to be identical with ( 79 ) ( cf. equations ( 53 ) and ) .
Equation ( 81 ) now reduces to an identity , so that every configuration is formally a point of bifurcation .
The interpretation is , of course , the same as that of S11 , the displacement for which is a rigid body displacement , and so requires no force to ANT ) THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
maintain it .
There is , of course , nothing of the nature of a change of stability , for , instead of , remains pelYIlanently zero .
The consideration of is of no except that it provides a check on the result rather involved series of analytical ocesses .
When there is homogeneity between core and crust the non-rotating system has been found to be stable for all displacements .
To examine whether this is altered by the presence of the crust , it is natural to test first the extreme case in which the difference between the core and crust is as great as possible .
Let us make the core so hot that its density is zero , so that has to be zero in order that the internal pressure may be maintained ( cf. equation ( 12 ) ) .
Putting , equations ( 79 ) and ( 80 ) reduce to , . . . . . .
( 83 ) or , by equation , . . . . .
( 84 ) whence ( equation ( 49 ) ) are given by ; .
( 85 ) of corresponding to a few values of are given below\mdash ; 86 9 86 9 86 9 86 9 86 9 86 9 3 .
The case which is most favourable to the occurrence of points of bifurcation with positive values of is when , falls to zero at the outer boundary .
Let us examine this case .
We have ( equation ( 63 ) ) , ( 86 ) so that .
( 87 ) And in virtue of ( 86 ) , the equation giving points of bifnrcation ( going back to equation ( 72 ) ) is , . . . . .
( 88 ) so that points of bifurcation of order are given by . . . . . . . .
( 89 ) When , this becomes ; when , it is On treating these equations numerically it is found that they can never be satisfied We conclude that the non-rotating mass is stable for all displacements , subject , of course , to the condition that the density shall be everywhere positive .
Rotation .
S23 .
We consider next the stability of a rotating mass of the type under consideration , in which we are limited to being small compared with the density of the main mass .
If we suppose that , the density of the core at its outer boundary , is equal to , we shall have a case\mdash ; somewhat artificial of course\mdash ; in which the density the core is very small compared with that of the crust , and in which the equations are not too complex to admit of treatment .
We accordingly assume that , and the equations ( 75 ) , ( 76 ) , and ( 77 ) ( or ( 72 ) ) reduce to the same equations as in the case of no rotation ( equations ( 83 ) ) .
Thus have the same values as before , being given by the table on p. 479 .
If we suppose that at the outer boundary of the crust the density falls to the small value , then the value of , the radius of the outer boundary , is , as before , given by equations ( 86 ) or ( 87 ) , and the value of is still given by equation ( 88 ) .
Thus the analysis is exactly the same as in the case of no rotation , and there are no points of bifurcation .
It follows that , when does not have this special value assigned to it , the only hope of finding points of bifurcation rests upon the gravitational tendency to instab which arises from the presence of the small layer of crust in which has a value less than .
Let us pass at once to the examination of the extreme case in which AND THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
Denoting as before the density of the crust at its inner surface by , and putting the density at the outer surface equal to zero , we have ' whence , on elimination of .
( 90 ) Equation ( 72 ) still gives as the condition for points of bifurcation , and when ( the onIy case which appears to be worth examining ) , this reduces to , . . . . .
( 91 ) in which is given from the table on p. 479 .
The procedure is to from equation ( 91 ) , and hence calculate the value of from equation ( 90 ) .
The results for a few values of are given in the table following ( the last column is explained later ) :\mdash ; 0 40 0 .
45 0 50 0 .
49 0 48 The obvious remark must at once be made that probably all the values for are too large for results obtained by the neglect of to be accurate .
But apart from absolute accuracy there is an obvious tendency for the value of to fall off as increases\mdash ; for lower values of the symmetrical configuratio1l becomes unstable for lower and lower values of .
For , the value of is S24 .
Against this , it must be noticed that the value of ?
) is of very slight importance ; what we are concerned with is the ratio of ) to the mean density of the whole mass .
For a very rough calculation , we may assume the mean density of VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. 3 MR J. H. JEANS ON GRAVITATIONAL INSTABILITy the crust to be , whence it follows that the mean density of the whole mass will be roughly equal to a density defined by and the value of will ) approximately the same as the quantity which is computed from observations of binary stars .
Values of are given in the last column of the table on the preceding page ; the value corresponding to ( no core ) being inserted from the result of the previous analysis ( S13 ) .
As before , the numbers are not numerically accurate , but their general trend may be expected to reveal the general trend of the true series of numbers .
It at once appears that the values of are surprisingly steady : there is certainly no rapid decrease in their amount as increases .
and S25 .
The problem we have had under consideration has been that of testing whether the behaviour of a rotating mass of compressible heterogeneous matter differs very widely from that of the incompressible homogeneous mass which has been studied by MACLAURJN , JACOBI , POINCARE , and DARWIN .
The result obtained can be summed up very briefly by saying that the ideal incompressible mass has been found to supply a surprisingly good model by which to study the behaviour of the more complicated systems found in astronomy .
The problem especially under consideration has been that of determining the amount of rotation at which configurations of revolution ( e.g. , spheroids ) first become unstable .
In so far as we have been able to examine the question , it appears probable that the compressible mass will behave , at least up to this point , in a manner almost exactly similar to the simpler incompressible mass , and results obtained for the latter will be nearly true , both qualitatively and quantitatively , for the former .
The compressible mass , set into rotation , will apparently pass through a series of flattened configurations very similar to the Maclaurin spheroids ; it will then , for just about the same amount of rotation ( as measured by ) , leave the symmetrical form and assume a form similar to the Jacobian ellipsoids .
Beyond this stage our analysis has not been able to deal with the Indeed , strictly speaking , our analysis has hardly been able to carry this far : A question of importance has been whether the quasi-spheroidal form for a compressible mass does not become unstable for a much-smaller value of than the incompressible mass , and whether the instability does not set in in a different way .
These questions we have been able to answer , with , I think , a very high degree of probability , in the negative .
The whole matter is of necessity one of probability only , and not of certainty , for the general heterogeneous compressible mass is not amenable to analysis until a great number of simplifying assumptions have been made .
It was first pointed out that a compressible mass has an infinitely greater number AND THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
of vibrations than an incompressible one , and as the mass is only stable when every vibration individually is stable , it might be thought that a compressible mass had more chance of bein unstable\mdash ; or would become unstable sooner\mdash ; than the corresponding compressible mass .
This has on the whole been found not to be the case , and on looking through the analysis the reason can be seen .
A vibration in a compressible mass may be regarded loosely as a system of waves ; the distance from one point of zero displacement to the next may be regarded as a sort of wave-length of the vibration .
The stability or instability of a vibration depends on which is the greater\mdash ; the gain in elastic energy or the loss in gravitational energy when the vibration takes place .
But as between a vibration of great wave-length and one of short wave-length there is this important distinction : for equal maximum amplitudes the gravitational disturbance caused by the disturbance of great wavelength is much greater than that caused by the disturbance of short wave-length , since the elements of the latter very largely neutralise one another .
Thus the change in gravitational energy is enormously the greatest for disturbances of great wave-length , while it is easily seen that the changes in elastic energy are approximately the same .
It follows that if the mass becomes unstable it will be a vibration of the greatest possible wave-length , i.e. , a wave-length about equal to the diameter of the mass .
This general prediction is amply verified in the detailed problems that have been discussed .
When we reflect that the vibrations of greatest wave-length are exactly those which are common both to compressible and incompressible masses , we see readily that , in this respect at least , compressibility is likely to make but little difference .
The vibrations of greatest wave-length are put in evidence , both in the compressible and incompressible mass , by the displacement of the surface .
A vibration in which the displacement is proportional to a zonal harmonic may be thought of as having a wave-length approximately equal to .
In accordance with the principle that vibrations of great wave-lengths are most effective towards instability , we should expect the lowest values of to give the vibrations which first come unstable , and this is , in fact , found to be the case .
But here a very real distinction enters between the compressible and the incompressible mass .
In the incompressible mass vibrations of order are non-existent , the displacement being purely a rigid body displacement ; in the compressible mass vibrations of order can certainly occur , and so might reasonably be expected to be the first to become unstable .
It is in point of fact known that the incompressible mass becomes unstable through vibrations of orders 2 , 3 , in turn ; it is found that the compressible Inass also becomes unstable through vibrations of orders 2 , 3 , in turn , the vibrations of order 1 failing completely to produce instability .
The reason for this apparent anomaly can , I think , be traced in the following way .
In a displacement of any spherical layer of particles will after displacement spread uniformly over another sphere excentric to the first .
The gravitational force produced by this sphere of particles both before and after displacement is exactly nil at a point inside the sphere .
Thus the gravitational field set up by a displacement of order 1 neutralises itself in a way not contemplated in the general argument outlined above .
Also the vibrations of order 1 and of greatest wave-length in the interior are not available , for they represent solely a rigid body displacement .
The question of vibrations of order 1 is treated in SS8-7 ; it is shown that they may be disregarded , and we pass to the consideration of vibrations of orders 2 , 3 , , expecting ( as , in fact , is found to be the case ) that instability will first set in through a vibration of order 2 .
It is only possible to discuss special cases , and the one which is most amenable to analysis is that in which the pressure and density are connected by LAPLACE'S law , .
It is first proved ( SS8-11 ) that , for a mass of such matter at rest , the spherical form is stable for all displacements .
Later ( SS15-22 ) it is shown that this is true when varies inside the mass ; it is true even up to the case which is the most likely to be unstable , in which the matter in the interior is of negligible density and the main part of the mass is collected in a surface crust\mdash ; a sort of astronomical soap-bubble .
We proceed next to examine for what amount of rotation these figures will become unstable , treating first the case in which is the same throughout the mass .
Imagining and to vary we can get a variety of types of mass .
The surprising result is obtained ( by something short of strict mathematical proof ) that the figure which is the first to become unstable ( as increases uniformly for them all ) is the perfectly incompressible gravitational instability appears to act in the unexpected direction , at any rate when the degree of rotation is measured by being the mean density .
As it was not possible to obtain strictly accurate figures in this case , the result was checked by considering the artificial , but physically analogous , problem of rotating cylinders of Laplacian matter , in which it was possible to obtain perfectly exact results ( S14 ) .
The result was confirmed , and the additional information was obtained that the value of remains surprisingly steady through quite a wide range of compressibility ( vide table on p. 471 ) .
The physical reason for this can , I think , understood as follows .
The more compressible the matter is the more it tends to concentrate near the centre , i.e. , in just those regions where the " " centrifugal force\ldquo ; obtains , so to speak , least grip on it .
Incompressibility neutralises the gravitational tendency to instability , but tends to compel the matter to place itself so that the rotational tendency to instability can act at the best advantage .
The similar problem is next investigated ( SS23 , 24 ) when varies inside the mass ; in particular , the limiting case of a soap-bubble-like mass is considered .
Again the surprising result emerges that the value of needed to establish instability of the symmetrical configuration is just about the same as before ( vide table , p. 481 ) .
The matter is now constrained to remain , so to speak , on the rim of a fly-wheel where AND THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS .
the centrifugal force can act at the best advantage and gravitational instability has full scope .
If is the mean density of the crust , must obviously be less than before .
But if is the meaIl density of the whole mass , is also much smaller .
These two quantities march with approximately equal steps , so that ) remains almost unaltered .
Thus we have the general result that for all the varied types of mass that have been considered the spheroidal or quasi-spheroidal form always becomes first unstable for just about the same value of .
If , from the point of view of discovering new processes in nature , the present vestigation has been somewhat barren , at least we may reflect that the work of DARWIN and POINCARE has been shown , to some extent , to have an enhanced value , in that it seems to apply to the real bodies of nature and not merely to mathematical abstractions .

