Philosoph : Transact : N. 201 .
~ 1 ~ ~ ~ ~ 2 ~ ~ ~ 3 ~ ~ ~ 4 ~ ~ ~ 5 ~ 1 .
A Letter from Mr. F. A. Esq ; R. S. S. to the Publisher , with a Paper of Mr. S. Flowers containing the Exact Draughts of several unknown Characters , taken from the Ruins at Persepolis .
SIR , I Here send you some Fragments of Papers put into my hands by a very good Friend , relating to antique and obscure Inscriptions , which were retrieved after the Death of Mr. Flower , Agent in Persia for our East-India Company ; who , while he was a Merchant at Aleppo , had taken up a Resolution to procure some Draught or Representation of the admired Ruins at Chilmenar , pursuant to the third Enquiry for Persia , mentioned in the Philosophical Transactions , page .
420 .
viz. Whether there being already good Descriptions in Words of the Excellent Pictures and Basse Relieves that are about Persepolis at Chilmenar , yet none very particular , some may not be found sufficiently skilled in those parts , that might be engaged to make a Draught of the Place , and the Stories their pictured and carved .
This Desire of the Royal Society , as I believe , it hinted at a Summary Delineation , which might be performed by a Man qualified in a few days , taking his own opportunity for the avoiding much Expense , ( which you know they are never able to bear : ) So I cannot but think Mr. Flower conceived it to be a business much easier to perform then he found it upon the place , where he spent a great deal of Time and Money , and dying suddenly after , left his Draughts and Papers dispersed in several hands , one part whereof you have here , the rest its hoped may in some time be recovered , if Sir John CharH h2 din 's din 's exact and accurate Publication of the entire Work do not put a period to all further Curiosity , which I heartily wish .
An Exact Draught or Copy of the several Characters engraven in Marble at the Mountains of Nocturestand and Chahelminar in Persia , as they were taken in November 1667 .
By Mr. S. Flower .
N 1 .
N 2 .
These two Characters are engraven on the Breast of two Horses cut out of the Mountain of Black Marble at Nocturestand , distant a League from Chahelmanare , or the ancient Persepolis , one whereof is said to be Alexander 's , the other Rustram 's , ( a Famous Hero supposed to have lived about the time of Cambyses .
) Mr. Fl .
N 1 .
This Character hath some Similitude with the Ancient Hebrew , but the Persians would have it their own , tho ' they understand not a Letter .
Mr. F. N 2 .
In these Lines the places are pricked where the Letters were defaced and not perceptible .
Mr. F. N 4 .
These two Lines were writ entire on Rustram 's Horse .
Mr. F. N 3 .
This is the ( Arabic ) Persian Character engraven at Persepolis not above 500 years since , and is little different from the Writing used at this day .
Mr. F. N 5 .
This Character , whether it be the ancient Writing of the Gaures or Gabres , or a kind of Telesmes is found only at Persepolis , being a part of what is there engraven in white Marble , and is by no Man in Persia legible or understood at this Day .
A Learned Jesuit Father , who deceased three years since , assirmed this Character to be known and used in AEgypt .
Mr. F. It seems written from the Left Hand to the Right , and to consist of Pyramids , diversely posited , but not joined together .
As to the Quantity of the Inscriptions , Herbert reckoned in one large Table Twenty Lines of a prodigious Breadth .
Of this sort here are distinct Papers , each of several Lines .
N 6 .
This Character is likewise engraved at Persepolis , of like Antiquity with the former .
It has someAffinity with the Syriack and Arabic , and has been pretended to be understood by some of the Padres .
Mr. F.

