302 Messrs. W. Spottiswoode and J. F. Moulton .
[ Apr. 8 small to be experimentally appreciable ; but this was distinctly stated by Professor Maxwell himself , at the foot of p. 256 .
As to the second limit , I must remark , in the first place , that I can .
not find that Graham made any assumption that porous plates act a* apertures in thin plates .
The result that the time of passage varies cceteris paribus , as the square root of the density in the case of fine porous plates , was obtained by pure experiment ; and though he could not fail to notice the accordance of this result with that of the mere hydrodynamical passage through a small aperture , he has carefully distinguished between the two .
Nor can I agree with Professor Reynolds in regarding the explanation given by Professors Thomson and Maxwell of the phenomenon of thermal transpiration or thermal effusion , whichever it be called , afforded by assimilating a fine porous plate to a thin plate pierced by apertures of ideal fineness as erroneous , even though it should be shown that such assimilation is unnecessary .
Professor Maxwell did not profess to treat in his paper the intermediate cases between the two extreme limits .
Perhaps I should mention , that the foot-note at p. 281 in Professor Maxwell 's paper was added as the paper passed through the press .
I recollect noticing the thing as , in my capacity of Secretary , I looked over the paper before sending it to be printed off , and considering whether I should affix a date .
As , however , it seemed to me to contain merely an explanation of an expression in the text , and as Maxwell , who had carefully added the dates of fresh matter in other parts , did not seem to have thought it necessary to do so in this case , I left it as it was .
In a letter I received from him at the time , he informed me that he felt very ill , and was hardly fit even to go through his own paper ; though a subsequent letter , in which he entered into some scientific matters , was written in his usual cheerful style .
No one had , I believe , at that time any notion of the very serious nature of his illness .
March 13 , 1880 .
G. G. Stokes .
IT .
" On the Sensitive State of Vacuum Discharges .
Part II .
" By William Spottiswoode , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Pres. R.S. , and J. Fletcher Moulton , late Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge .
Received March 11 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) This paper forms a sequel to that published under the same title in the " Phil. Trans. , " 1879 , p. 165 .
It describes a continuation of the research into the nature and laws of the disruptive discharge , or elec1880 .
] On the Sensitive State of Vacuum Discharges .
303 try spark .
The methods of the earlier paper have been extended , and others adapted to the new circumstances have been devised m order to carry the investigation into high vacua .
In particular , independent sources of electricity have been used for affecting the discharge , whether in the sensitive or in the non-sensitive state ; and the results have been confirmatory of the conclusions derived from the more limited means formerly described .
Further , the effects of various tubes containing discharges in the sensitive state upon a tube containing a discharge in the non-sensitive state have been observed and compared ; and the tube so used as a test has been called t e standard tube , and the method of its use the standard tube methoc .
By this means , principally , the laws of the discharge in comparatively moderate vacua have been extended to high vacua .
In the higher vacua , the phenomena of molecular streams , and the phosphorescence consequent on them , that have been studied and described by Mr. Crookes , present themselves .
These derive great importance for the purposes of the present paper from the fact that in high vacua the ordinary luminous discharge becomes so feeble m appearance that it is often difficult to observe .
Under these circumstances the phosphorescence , which like the ordinary luminous effects may exist either in a sensitive or in a non-sensitive state , forms the best index of what is going on within the tube .
Much information as to the nature and procedure of the discharge may be derived from the mode of interference of one molecular stream with another , from the direction and character of shadows cast by these streams , and by a form of interference which has here been called that of virtual shadows .
The conditions of pressure and of electrical violence , under which phosphorescence is produced , have been carefully studied ; and it has been found that , with a suitable adjustment of the discharge , the phenomena are not confined to high vacua , but can be obtained under pressures much exceeding those of ordinary vacuum tubes .
The phenomena of these molecular streams have also been compared with those exhibited by the projection of finely divided solid conducting matter when heaped up over the negative terminal , with the view of ascertaining the nature of the phenomenon and its position m the discharge .
At the close of the paper the authors have discussed some ot the general conclusions which they think may be fairly drawn from their present researches .
First , as to the relative order of magnitude of the time-quantities entering into the discharge ; the times occupied by the discharge of positive or negative electricity , or of molecular streams , in leaving a terminal ; the time occupied by the same elements in passing along the tube , \amp ; c. Secondly , as to the durational character of the negative as compared with the positive discharge , which appears to increase with the degree of exhaustion .
Thirdly , as Prof. Owen .
On the Gigantic Land-lizard .
[ Apr. 15 to the mode of formation of the positive column ; and fourthly as to the relation of the molecular streams to the discharge proper to th"e 'f th6Se ''nClUSi0nS the reader be April 15 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for The following Papers were read :\#151 ; L " Description of some Remains of the Gigantic Land-lizard { Megalama prisca , OWEN ) from Australia .
Part II " By-Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. Received March 22 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) .
Refe\#153 ; g to a former Part ( " Phil. Trans , " 1858 , p. 43 ) the author gives , m the present , descriptions of subsequently received fossils of Megalama prisca , advancing the knowledge of that species of large extinct lizard .
Characters of the dorsal , sacral , and caudal vertebne , with those of a considerable portion of the skull , are detailed .
So much of the upper jaw as is preserved shows the species to have had that part sheathed with horn , as in the tortoise .
Upon the head were seven horns , three in pairs and one single ; they are defined as the " supraparietal , " " supratemporal " and " post-orbital " pairs ; the single and symmetrical horn is " nasal .
" In the comparison of this character with the known srenera of lizards , the author finds the closest correspondence in the diminutive existing .Australian species , Aloloch howidus , Gray .
He concludes with lemarks on the probable habits and conditions of extinction of the subject of his two papers .
The cranial fossils were discovered by George Frederic Bennett , Esq. , Corr. Member of the Zoological Society of London , in the bed of King s Creek , ' Queensland , Australia ; and were transmitted to the author by George Bennett , M.D. , F.L S.

