Quelques Remarques sir la Chaleur , et sir I'Action des Corps qui linterceptent .
Par P. Prevost , Professeur de Philosophie a Geneve , &amp; 8c .
Communicated by Thomas Young , M.D. F.R.S. Read July 1 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 403 .
] The remarks here brought forward relate chiefly to Dr. Herschel 's experiments on the solar and terrestrial rays that occasion heat , published in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1800 , and are meant to rectify some anomalies which appear in their results .
The paper consists of two parts : the first being the observations on Dr. Herschel 's experiments , and some new ones , with inferences deduced .
from them ; and the second the exposition of a theory , which the author thinks may reconcile all contradictions .
In the first part he sets out with briefly stating the manner in which Dr. Herschel conducted the experiments he made , in order to estimate , by the indications of different thermometers , the quantity of heat transmitted through various substances , compared with the heat afforded by direct rays from different luminous bodies , or more properly sources of heat .
Here the author soon starts a difficulty concerning the mode of estimating the intercepting power of the substances used in the experiments .
As these experiments consist of a series of observations made progressively at intervals of one minute between each other , it follows that the ratio Dr. Herschel adopted between the heat produced by direct rays , and those transmitted through coloured media , is not , as he imagined , a constant proportion , he having uniformly deduced his inferences from the differences between the initial and the final degrees of heat ; whereas , had he attended to the intermediate observations , he would have found that each of them would have afforded a different ratio .
Having maturely considered this subject , the author , adverting to this circumstance of the various proportions of heat progressively yielded in these experiments , observes , that it can hardly be conceived why the faculty of transmitting and intercepting heat should thus vary in any substance , merely because it has transmitted or intercepted it for a greater or less length of time .
Hence he thinks it essential to have recourse to some permanent rule from which the results may in all cases be accurately derived , and which , when the phoenomena do not correspond , may lead us to the investigation of some other cause .
Such a law has been deduced from direct experiments , and implies that a body placed in a medium of a constant temperature , becomes heated or cooled in such a manner , that the differences of its heat from that of the medium are in a geometrical progression , while the times of heating or of cooling are arithmetically proportionate .
It will readily be perceived in what manner it is practicable to deduce from the two progressions mentioned in this law , a third progression , which will apply to the intermediate steps of any series of observations .
This law , when adapted both to Dr. Herschel 's experiments and to some new ones here described , is found to apply with singular accuracy through the three or four first minutes of increasing heat ; but after this period the series manifestly varies , the increase of heat by computation according to the law falling progressively short of that indicated by the thermometers .
The author is at considerable pains to explain this anomaly , and at length ascribes it to the heat accumulated in the intercepting body , which renders it in a manner a new source of heat , the emanation from which , it must be admitted , cannot but cooperate with the transmitted rays , to raise the thermometers near it .
If the progress of this accumulation of heat be perfectly regular , its effect will be confounded with that of the transmitted rays , as was actually found to be the case when a thin plate of talc was used as an intercepting medium .
The cause of this difference is ascribed chiefly to the thickness of that medium , and in some measure also to the weakness of the source of heat .
It will scarcely be necessary to explain the operation of these concurrent causes , it being obvious that the greater the bulk of a body , the greater will be the accumulation it admits of , and the greater the source of heat , the more rapid will be this accumulation .
The next object of inquiry is how long an experiment should last for the thermrometer to acquire the maximum of heating , that is , the temperature of the source of heat , or medium in which it is immersed .
Here the experiments can be made only on direct heat , since the intermediate body .
containing accumulated heat , might , and probably does in most cases , continue to emit this heat after the thermometer has arrived at the maximum , that is , the .
temperature of the source of heat .
In the direct heat of the sun this maximum was obtained in little more than 12 ' .
The author hereupon examines a number of Dr. Herschers experiments , in which he mentions only the initial and final degrees of the thermometer .
After showing what the mean ratio is between the degrees computed for the progression of the differences , and those determined -by observation , which he finds is as 13 to 10 , he determines the constant heat of a medium by the following proportion .
The difference between this heat , and each of the numbers given by observation ( that is , the initial and final observation ) , are to each other as the first term of the progression is to the sixth ; that is to say , as the numbers 13 and 10 raised to the fifth power .
These comparisons between his results and those Dr. Herschel had derived from the same experiments , have led our author to several remarks , in which the above-mentioned law , and the circumstance of the accumulation of heat in the intercepting media , are applied to various phanomena and computations , and likewise to some experiments of the same nature described by Prof. Pictet in his Essay on Fire .
The deviations here observed are in most cases ascribed to the thickness of the intercepting substances , and to the distances between them and the thermometers .
The second part , which relates to the theory from which depends the law of the increments of heat , as deduced from direct observations , is introduced by a brief statement of the historical facts that have led to the contemplation of this subject .
Bacon first proposed the question , whether heated bodies , which are obscure and opake , are similar in their effects to the radiant bodies ?
Several philosophers , such as Lambert , Saussure , and Pictet , have by various experiments determined in favour of the affirmative ; and it has even been proved that ' the velocity of heat , independent of light , is no less than 69 feet in an instant of time not apparently divisible .
Bacon likewise asked whether cold might not , as well as heat , acquire intensity by means of mirrors or refracting glasses ?
Our author , without mentioning the well-known experiments of the Academy del Cimento on this subject , proceeds at once to those of Prof. Pictet , who proved the affirmative as to the fact , but yet thought that the cause ought to be ascribed not to the reflected cold , but to the reflection of heat in opposite circumstances ; by which he seems to understand that heat in this instance escapes reciprocally from the thermometer towards the cooler substance .
He here substitutes a moveable equilibrium , to the immovable one usually admitted by philosophers ; and this he thinks fully explains the identity of the phoenomena according to his theory , which implies an equal apparent dispersion of heat and cold .
This theory is as follows:-Fire is a discrete and agitated fluid ; every molecule of free fire is moved with great velocity : some molecules move one way , some another , so that a hot body throws out calorific rays in every direction .
And these molecules have sufficient distance between them to admit two or more currents to cross each other without being impeded in their course .
This character of fire being clearly unlderstood , it must be evident ( says our aulthor ) that if we suppose two neighbouring spaces to contain a certain quantity of it , there must be continual changes between them .
If the fire is equally abundant in each , the changes will be equal , and an equilibrium will be produced : if one of the spaces contain more fire than the other , the changes will be unequal ; but after a sufficient time the continual repetition of these changes will likewise produce an equilibrium .
According to these principles he undertakes to explain all the laws of increasing and decreasing heat ; he supplies us with various examples as to the application of them , and shows how this theory coincides with the general law laid down in the first part of the paper .
The drift of this treatise will be still further illustrated , if we attend to the following recapitulation given us by the author of the leading principles deduced from the various parts of his investigation .
1 .
The effect of a constant source of heat upon the thermometer is not proportional to the heat of that source .
2 .
We nevertheless possess a method of determining the heat of the source by its effect on the thermometer , because we know the law this effect follows in its successive increments .
3 .
This method is the only one that ought to be employed when it is required to compare two sources of heat , according to their effect in a limited time , less than that which is necessary to produce the maximum of the effect .
4 .
In the case of transmitted heat , we must distinguish that which is immediately transmitted , from that which is added by the transmitting body after it becomes heated .
5 .
If we neglect making the distinction , the interception of heat attributed to the intercepting body is only an inferior limit or minimum ; so that it remains undetermined whether the interception has not been much greater , or even total .
6 .
By applying these principles to Dr. Herschel 's experiments , a more exact appreciation may be obtained ; it is , however , governed by some accessory circumstances , which have not yet been determined .
7 .
In those experiments the apparent difference between the interception of heat and of light by the same substances , does not afford any fair conclusion respecting the difference or the identity of light and heat .
8 .
The law mentioned in the first part of the paper is not only proved by direct experiments , but also by its agreement with the true theory of the earth .
Lastly .
This theory is established upon various facts , entirely different from the above law , and it is the only one which agrees with the general phenomenon of nature .

