Observations on some Belemnites and other Fossil Remains of Cephalopoda , discovered by Mr. REGINALD NEVILLE MANTELL , C.E. in the Oxford Clay near Trowbridge , in Wiltshire .
By GIDEON ALGERNON MANTELL , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , JVice-President of the Geological Society .
Received March 2 , -Read March 23 , 1848 .
THE group of argillaceous deposits of the Oolite or Jurassic formation , termed the Oxford Clay , has yielded some of the most interesting and instructive examples of the fossil remains of Cephalopoda hitherto discovered in England .
Christian-Malford , in Wiltshire , is especially celebrated for the very perfect specimens of the soft parts of certain extinct forms of this class of molluscous animals ; examples having been obtained in which the body and muscular tunic or mantle , the cephalic arms with their uncinated acetabula , the capsule or external tunic of the eye-ball , the ink-bag , and the phragmocone , are preserved , and in some instances but slightly displaced from their natural relative positions and connections .
The remarkable fossils described in the Memoir on the Belemnite* by Professor OWEN , were procured by the Marquess of NORTHAMPTON , Mr. CUNNINGTON , and Mr. PRATT , from this locality .
A branch line from the Great Western Railway to Trowbridge in Wiltshire , now in progress , in some parts passes over , and in others cuts through , the usual series of oolitic strata of that part of England ; namely , the Kimmeridge Clay , Oxford Clay , Kelloway Rock , and the Great Oolite with its subordinate beds of Cornbrash , Forest Marble , Bradford Clay , &amp;c. t My son , Mr. REGINALD NEVILLE MANTELL , who is engaged on this work under the eminent engineer I. K. BRUNEL , Esq. , availed himself of this favourable opportunity of collecting a very extensive suite of the fossils brought to light by the various cuttings and excavations required in the construction of the railway .
This collection comprises many hundred specimens of the shells and other organic remains which usually abound in this division of the Golite formation , and among them are several unique and exquisite examples of Aminonites , Belemnites , &amp;c. Imbedded with the animal remains were large quantities of drifted wood , and stems and branches of trees : some of these specimens are in the state of bogwood and lignite ; others are transmuted into limestone , and have the original structure well-preserved .
Trunks and branches of coniferous trees , from ten to twenty feet in length , and from a few inches to upwards of a foot in diameter , were abundant ; a few traces of the foliage of Cycadeaceous plants , and of Araucarive , were likewise met with .
The geological character of the beds of Oxford Clay exposed along this railway , is that of a fluvio-marine formation ; that is , an accumulation of deep sea and littoral shells , promiscuously intermingled with the debris of terrestrial vegetables brought into the sea from distant lands by the agency of streams and rivers , and transported by marine currents into the bed of the ocean .
It would be highly interesting , but irrelevant to my present purpose , to dwell on the geological phenomena presented by the sections laid bare by the operations of the engineer along this tract of ten or twelve miles .
The great quantity of the shells of mollusks referable to species which dwell in the profound abyss of the ocean , collocated with those which can exist only in waters of moderate depths , and the intercalation of drifted trees and plants , formed a striking illustration of the nature of the bed of the ancient oolitic sea , strewn with the spoils of the land , and the exuviae of the animals with which the waters or that ocean were densely inhabited* .
As the Oxford Clay traversed by the Trowbridge line is a continuation of the beds that were cut through at Christian-Malford , whence all the specimens of Cephalopoda collected by Mr. Buy , the well-known fossil dealer of Chippenhamn , were procured , my son 's attention was particularly directed to the discovery of examples that would tend to elucidate the nature of the soft parts of the animal to which the Belemuite belonged ; for notwithstanding the memoir above referred to , doubts were entertained by several competent observers as to the validity of the arguments which led Professor OWEN to assign the fossil Cephalopod , termed Belemnoteulkis antiquus by the late Mr. CHANNING PEARCE , and described by him in 1842+ , to the same genus as the true Belemnnite , and to the species named B. Owen ii by Mr. PRATT .
Care was thei efore taken to remove , when practicable , the Belermnites , Ammonites , &amp;c. with a large portion of the surrounding clay ; and this , when hardened by drying , was diligently examined to ascertain whether there were any remains , or traces of the imprints , of the soft and perishable parts , of the bodies of the original animals .
Although these researches were not rewarded by the discovery of any good examples of the muscular tunic , arms , &amp;c. of the Cephalopoda , whose hard and durable relics are scattered in profusion through the strata , there are in the collection my son transmitted to me , a few specimens which present characters hitherto unobserved , or at least unnoticed , by any author , and which appear to me of sufficient importance to be placed on record , as interesting additions to our knowledge of the structure of the animal of the Belemnite .
In the following remarks I shall restrict myself to the description of the fossils , of which accurate figures by Mr. JOSEPH DINKEL , executed under my immediate inspection , are subjoined ; and the bearing of the facts described on the still mooted question as to whether the Belemnoteuthis and the Belemnite belong to the same genus ; in other words , whether the soft parts of Cephalopoda found in the Oxford Clay of Wiltshire , and figured and described by Mr. CHANNING PEARCE , Professor OWEN , and Mr. CUNNINGTON , belong to the Belemnites geologically associated with them , but with which they have never yet been found in organic connection .
The late Mr. CHANNING PEARCE , whose early death every British paleontologist must deeply regret , was the first who noticed and described the muscular mantle , phragmocone , uncinated arms , &amp;c. of certain Cephalopods found in the Oxford Clay at Christian-Malford , and which he referred to a new genus under the name of Belemnoteuthis .
According to the observations of this gentleman , and of subsequent authors , the body of this Cephalopod was of an elongated form , and contained a large internal conical shell , which is chambered and siphonated at its apical or distal extremity to the extent of about one-half ( ?
) the length of the entire cone , and terminates anteriorly , or at its basal part , in a capacious chamber or cavity , in which the ink-bag , and probably other viscera , were placed .
The external surface , which is of a brown colour , generally possesses a glossy smoothness , as if produced by its immediate contact with the secreting surface of the mantle .
The outer integument of this conical shell consists of a thick corneo-calcareous layer ( which for convenience I will call the epidermis ) , investing a nacreous , iridescent substance .
Two large sessile eyes have been detected , and in several specimens the cephalic arms are more orless perfectly preserved ; there are likewise indications of a pair of long tentacula , superadded to the eight shorter arms , as in the existing Decapods* .
The arms were furnished with acetabula or suckers , the horny hoops of which were beset with curved spines or hooks , as in the living Onychoteuthis .
Traces of a pair of pallial fins have been detected by Professor OWEN , to whose memoir I would refer for minute details of structure , which are not within the scope of the present communication+* Professor OwEN , Philosophical Transactions , 1844 , p. 78 .
t Ibid. p. 79 .
The outline , Plate XIV .
fig. 1 , is intended to convey an idea of the form of the animal of the Belemnoteuthis , so far as the fossils hitherto discovered warrant the restoration ; of course this sketch is only approximative , and is given as a mere diagram of what is actually known as to the shape and structure of the original , and not as an accurate delineation of the living animal ; for there are strong reasons to conclude that the phragmnocone was wholly internal , or at least was covered by the skin .
The above is , I believe , a correct description of the Belemnoteuthis , and of the form and relations of the several parts of its structure : it is based on the specimens described and figured by Mr. CHANNING PEARCE , Professor OWEN* , and Mr. CUNNINGTON+ , and others in my possession .
Now in order to connect the body of the Cephalopod above described with the elongated conical fossil commonly known as the Belemnite , and termed by naturalists the guard or osselet of the same , it has been assumed that the terminal chambered cone of the former ( Plate XIII .
figs. 2 , 3 , 5 ) was originally implanted in the alveolus or cavity of the latter ; like the unquestionable phragmocone of a Belemnite , represented in Plate XV .
figs. 4 , 5 , a , a. It follows , if we admit the correctness of this interpretation , that every example of the chambered conical shell of a Cephalopod , found in the Oxford Clay , is the phragmocone of a Belemnite that has slipped out of the alveolus of the guard , and been compressed into its present shape by the weight of the superincumbent strata .
Upon the correctness of this supposition the generic identity of the Belemnoteuthis and the Belemnite entirely rests ; for no specimen has yet been met with , in which the guard of a Belemnnite is in natural contact with the muscular mantle , and other soft parts .
If the phragmocone of the Belemrnite , and the chambered shell of the Belemnoteuthis be not identical , then we know nothing whateverfrom actual observation , of the soft parts of the animal to which the Belemnite belonged : to this point therefore I would first solicit particular attention .
Phragmocone of the Belemnoteuthis.-As the figures in the Philosophical Transactions , 1844 , Plate III .
, &amp;c. , and in the London Geological Journal , Plate XV .
XVII .
, show the phragmocone in natural connection with the muscular tunic or mantle , &amp;c. , I need not adduce further examples of this undisputed fact , and will therefore only remark , that such specimens are of rare occurrence : in most instances , the detached chambered shell , more or less flattened , is found imbedded in the clay , with but few , if any , vestiges of the soft parts , as in Plate XIII .
figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 .
In this state , these fossils occurred by hundreds on the newly-exposed surface of the Oxford Clay near Trowbridge .
My son describes some areas when first laid bare by his labourers , as being literally spangled over with the nacreous cones of Belemnoteuthes , and the splendid iridescent shells of Ammonites ; while here and there Belemnites of large size , with their phragmocones attached , were lying in relief .
Upon drying , the thin nacreous shelly covering cracked to pieces , and flaked off from the clay : the illustrative examples presently to be described , were preserved by imbuing them with a thick solution of gum , and allowing them to dry , before attempting to dig them up .
From a great number of specimens I have selected four ( Plate XIII .
figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 .
) in illustration of the form and structure of the phragmocone of the Belemnoteuthis .
Figs. 2 , and 3 , exhibit , as I believe , the perfect shell , with the peristome , or mouth of the large anterior or basal chamber , entire .
Although both these fossils are much compressed , the cavity of the receptacle filled with clay is distinctly seen in fig. 2 : in fig. 3 , the margin of the peristorne ( a ) is only visible on one side , owing to the position of the shell in the clay .
In both specimens the distal extremity is perfect ; it terminates in a blunt point , having a longitudinal ridge on the side exposed , which probably indicates the dorsal aspect : in other instances , the corresponding space on the opposite or ventral side is occupied by two elevated , flat , slightly divergent longitudinal bands , as in Plate XIII .
fig. 5 ; in fig. 2 , the thick corneo-calcareous epidermis covers the lower part of the cone , but is in a great measure removed from the upper portion , and the pearly or nacreous layer of shell which lies beneath is exposed .
The epidermis in fig. 3 , though much cracked by pressure , extends over the greater part of the shell .
The descriptions of the phragmocone of the Belemnnoteuthis , as given by Mr. CHANNING PEARCE and Mr. CUNNINGTON , accord in every respect with my own observations .
Mr. CUNNINGTON particularly dwells on the constant and uniform occurrence of the two strongly-marked ridges which extend upwards from the apex in a nearly parallel direction .
" These , " he observes , " are shown in Plate LI .
fig. 6 .
of Professor OwEN'S paper , and are regarded by that gentleman as resulting from the accidental crushing of the shell .
I have , however , before me thirteen specimens , in which these ridges , though in some instances displaced by the compression they have undergone , are yet so distinct , and so constantly exhibit the same relative proportions and distances , that it is impossible not to regard them as resulting from original structure .
A transverse section shows that these ridges are formed by an elongation of the fibres , and consequent thickening of the shell .
Moreover , they are always exceedingly distinct in those , specimens where the apex is solid-as is sometimes the case to the extent of half an inch-and has resisted the force that has compressed the rest of the shell .
It is obvious that this structure could never have fitted into the circular cavity constituting the alveolus of the Belemnite* .
" My son long since pointed out to me the marked difference in the form of the respective shells ; that of the Belernuite being an elongated cone ( Plate XV .
figs. 4 , 5 , b ) , and that of the Belemnoteuthis more obtuse ( Plate XIII .
figs. 4 , 5 ) ; and he remarked that no amount of pressure could reduce the former into the same angle as the latter .
[ In the cabinet of the late Mr. CHANNING PEARCE , there is a portion of a phragrno cone of a Belemnoteuthis which is less compressed than any other specimen I have seen , and is also the only instance in which the true external surface of the epidermis is preserved .
Through the kindness of Mr. CHARLESWORTH I have been favoured by Mr. PEARCE , Senior , with the loan of this fossil , which is represented in Plate XIII .
fig. 1 .
The external pellicle , though cracked , is almost entire , but is removed in a few places ( a , a , a ) , so as to expose the brown corneo-calcareous layer which in most specimens appears as the outer case , as in Plate XIII .
figs. 2 , 3 .
The surface is very finely striated with delicate interrupted elevated lines , disposed in a longitudinal direction , as shown in the slightly enlarged drawing of part of the same at fig. 1 a. This structure appears to be analogous to that observable on the , back of the sepiostaire of the Cuttle-fish , and on the guards of certain species of Belemnites ; but I have never observed any traces of such a texture on the surface of the phragmocones of the latter , which invariably presents the characters delineated in Plate XV .
fig. 4 , a.]* According to the facts at present known , the chambered cone of the Belemnoteuthis appears to me to approximate most nearly to the Belopterat , which has a horny calcareous conical shell with transverse septa , and is destitute of a guard .
THE BELEMNITE.-To avoid unnecessary details , I beg to refer to Dr. BUCKLAND'S iBridgewater Essay+ , Professor OWEN 's Hunterian Lectures ?
, and my Medals of Creationlj , for descriptions and figures of the form and structure of the Belemnnite as indicated by the specimens then known ; and I now proceed to describe the most illustrative example from Trowbridge , which is represented ( somewhat less than half the size of the original ) in Plate XV .
fig. 3 .
This fossil comprises the following parts 1 .
The Capsuleq or periostricum ; this external investment ( c ' , c ' , c ' ) , which consists of a thin shelly or corneo-calcareous integument that closely embraces the guard , and gradually enlarging upwards , finally surrounds the peristome of the phragmocone , constituting the thin horny laminated sheath or receptacle ( c , c ) , has been described by all previous observers as an extension of what they termed the sheath or capsule ; within this receptacle the ink-bag and other viscera were probably contained .
2 .
The Guard or Osselet ( Plate XV .
figs. 1 , 2 ) , which is the fossil known to collectors as the Belemnite .
This is an elongated conical body , of a fibro-calcareous spathose structure , diminishing in size towards its distal extremity , and terminating in a point .
At the basal , or opposite end , it is truncated , and has a deep conical cavity termed the alveolus , which contains the siphonated apical portion of the phragmocone .
3 .
The Phragmocone ( Plate XV .
figs. 3 , 4 , 5 , a , a ) : this is a thin shelly inverted cone ; the distal part containing a series of from twenty to thirty air-chambers or cells , formed by concavo-convex transverse septa or plates .
This apparatus has been aptly compared by Dr. BUCKLAND to a pile of watch-glasses , gradually diminishing in size towards the apex ; the septa are perforated by a tube or siphunculus , which is situated on the ventral margin .
The phragmocone enlarges upwards , and anteriorly to the siphonated part constitutes a large chamber , from the margin of which are produced two , or more , long , upright , shelly or calcareous processes , as shown in Plate XV .
fig. 3 , b , b ' ; these were probably for the support of the soft parts , or for the attachment of muscles .
Whether there were similar processes on the opposite margin of the chamber cannot be determined , as the peristome is imperfect .
The figure in outline , Plate XIV .
fig. 2 , is intended to define these several parts more clearly .
a , a , a. The Capsule , periostricum , or external sheath of the Belemnite , now first described .
b. The Guard or Osselet .
c. The apical chambered part of the phragmnocone which is situated in the alveolus or cavity of the guard .
d. The visceral or basal chamber of the phragnmocone .
e , , e. Two elongated processes produced from the margin of the peristome of the visceral chamber ; observed for the first time .
In the specimens delineated , Plate XV .
figs. 1 and 2 , the guard is in great part covered by the external integument or shelly capsule ( c ' , c ' , c ' ) , which is very thin , and resembles in colour and in its glossy appearance , the outer coat or epidermis of the phraggnocone of the Belemnoteuthis ( Plate XIII .
figs. 2 , 3 ) .
The capsule is seen adherent to the crushed phragmocone beyond the upper part of the guard in Plate XV .
fig. 2 ; and in fig. 3 it is shown to be continuous with the horny receptacle into which it ultimately expands ( c " ) .
Professor Ow ENdetected on the exterior surface of some spathose guards obtained from the Oxford Clay , " traces of a more immediate investment of a thin friable layer of white calcareous matter , analogous to that of the outer layer of the sheath of the phragmocone ; " but the specimens were evidently too imperfect to demonstrate the nature of this periostricurn , and its identity with the expanded capsule or horny receptacle above ; for the phragmocone is erroneously described as having a sheath " continued backwards to line the alveolar cavity , and forwards from its basal outlet to form the visceral chamber anterior to the phragmocone* .
" The appearance of the surface of the phragmnocone situated in the alveolus , when first exposed by breaking away a portion of the investing guard , is represented , Plate XV .
fig. 4 , a ; and the same specimen with part of the shell removed , to show the edges of the plates of the air-chambers , in fig. 5 , a. The ; annular risings and depressions on the surface of the shell , fig. 4 , a , indicate the situation of the concavo-convex transverse septa .
rrhe phragmocones of the Belemnites in the Oxford Clay of Wiltshire are not symmetrical ; but the apex of the cone inclines to one side in consequence of the position of the axis of the guard , and terminates in a very fine point , as in the example , fig. 4 .
In this specimen the cells are filled with calcareous spar , as is fiequently the case with that portion of the phragmocone which is implanted in the alveolus ; a fact doubtless connected with the similar mineral state of the osselet itself .
The latter is almost invariably saturated as it were with crystallized carbonate of lime of a brown colour and radiated structure ; for notwithstanding the microscopical observations of Dr. CARPENTER and Professor OWEN , I think the evidence is in favour of the conclusion of the DEAN OF WESTMINSTER , that this crystalline condition has resulted from sparry infiltration , subsequently to interment , into the cellular and radiated calcareous texture of which the osselet was originally composed* ; in like manner as the crustaceous coverings and spines of the Echinoderms in the Oolite and Chalk , are so saturated with cale-spar as to have acquired the hardness and peculiar oblique fracture of the crystalline mineral matter .
The facts above described appear to me to confirm the opinion advanced by Mr. C. PEARCE and Mr. CUNNINGTON , that the Belemnoteuthis is generically distinct from the Belemnite .
In addition to the discrepancies in the form and structure of the phrag Socones of the respective Cephalopods , pointed out by these observers , the specimen represented , Plate XV .
fig. 3 , demonstrates that in the Belemnite there are two other essential characters of which no traces have been detected in the Belemnoteuthis ; namely , the periostricum , capsule , or external corneo-calcareous investment ( c , C , C ) ; and the processes that extend from the basal margin of the visceral chamber ( b , bI ) , the peristome of the Belemnoteuthis being entire ( Plate XIV .
figs. 3,4 ) .
It is worthy of remark , that the surface of the capsule of the Belemnite , and that of the phragmocone of the Belemnoteuthis , are alike smooth and glossy ; as if in the one the osselet , &amp;c. , and in the other the chambered shell , were originally wholly enveloped lby the mantle .
But the exterior of the siphonated phragmocone of the Belemnite is devoid of polish , and is in such close contact with the walls of the alveolus , that it is very rarely the shell can be displayed entire as in the specimen , Plate XV .
fig. 4 .
If it be contended that upon physiological grounds the phragmocone of the Belemnoteuthis must have been implanted in the alveolus of a guard or osselet , I would reply that none of the species of Belemnites with which these chambered cones are associated in the Oxford Clay of Wiltshire , can have belonged to them , for the reasons already assigned ; and a guard has still to be discovered that shall meet the exigencies of the case .
If , therefore , with our present scanty information , we affirm that the Belemnite and the Belemnoteuthis belong to one and the same genus , I respectfully submit that we are not only reasoning in advance of the data hitherto obtained , but contrary to known facts .
From a tolerably extensive knowledge of the fossil Cephalopoda of the argillaceous strata of the Oolite and Lias , I am , led to conclude that the Oxford Clay of Wiltshire contains the remains of at least three genera of naked Cephalopods ; namely , the Belemnite , Belernnoteuthis , and a true Calamary with a horny dorsal gladius or pen .
In the two last , vestiges of an ink-bag , or of its inspissated contents , are generally manifest ; but I have never detected the slightest trace of the existence of such an organ in natural connection with any part of a Beleinnite ; and I learn from M. VAN BREDA , that in the very large collection of Belemnites of the late COUNT MUNSTER , there was not one unequivocal instance of this kind .
If in the specimens figured in the Bridgewater Essay , Plate 44 ' , fig. 7 , the ink-bag be in its natural position , and not merely in accidental apposition with the basal chamber of the phragmocone of a Belemnite , of course the question as to whether this genus of Cephalopods was furnished with such an organ , is decided in the affirmative .
In conclusion , I would state , that although I am of opinion that the body and soft parts , and consequently the true characters of the animal of the Belemnite , have yet to be discovered , I do not question the soundness of the views of the correlation of cephalopodal organization , and of the physiological inductions resulting therefrom , enunciated in the memoir on the Belemnite by the Hunterian Professor .
That the unknown animal of the Belemnite closely approached the Belemnoteuthis , both in form and structure , is highly probable , but proofs are yet required to confirm the inferences of the physiologist .
19 Chester Square , Pimlico , February 1848 .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES .
All the figures are from specimens in my possession , and of the natural size , with the exception of fig. 3 , Plate XV .
, which is much reduced , the original specimen being twenty-two inches long .
PLATE XIII .
Figs. II .
111 .
V. Phragmnocones of Belemnoteuthis antiquus .
a. The basal or upper or anterior part , forming a chamber for the ink-bag , and probably other viscera .
b. The apical or distal termination of the shell .
Fig. I. The apical portion of the phragmnocone of a Belemnoteuthis invested with the external integument ; at a , a , a , is seen the corneo-calcareous layer which lies beneath .
Fig. Ia .
Part of fig. 1 , slightly magnified to show the striated surface ; a. marks a denuded space , exposing the internal layer .
Fig. II .
Shows the perfect form of the peristome , a ; though much compressed , the cavity of the chamber , partially filled with clay , is vell-defined .
Fig. III .
This specimen is also perfect , but in consequence of its position in the clay , only one-half of the basal or upper part of the margin of the peristome ( a ) is visible .
Fig. IV .
Ammonites Jasoni , from Trowbridge , with two elongated processes extending from the margin of the aperture , bearing some analogy to the shelly prolongations from the peristome of the Belemnite , Plate XV .
fig. 3 , b , V. Fig. V. A phragmocone showing the ventral ( ?
) aspect of the chambered apex , with two parallel longitudinal bands extending upwards ( b ) .
PLATE XIV .
Fig. I. A restored outline of the animal of the Belemnoteuthis , so far as at present known .
a. The cephalic arms .
b. Remains of a pair of long tentacula .
c. The eyes .
d. The pallial fins .
e. Ink-bag .
ff .
The mantle .
g. The phragmocone ; the letter indicates the visceral chamber of the same .
i. Apical or distal part of the phragmocone .
k. Two longitudinal bands on the ventral aspect of the same .
Fig. II .
Outline of the known parts of the Belemnite .
a , a. The capsule or periostricum .
a ' , a ' .
The horny expansion of the same forming the receptacle which surrounds the basal chamber and peristome of the phragwnocone .
b. The guard or osselet , one-half being removed to show the radiated structure , and the alveolus with the apical part of the phragmocone , at c. c. The chambered distal extremity of the phragmocone .
d. The visceral chamber of the same .
en e. Two calcareous processes arising from the margin of the peristome at ff Fig. III .
Phragmocone of Belemnoteuthis .
a. The visceral chamber .
b. Ridge on the dorsal side of the apex .
Fig. IV .
A phragmocone of Belemnoteuthis seen on the ventral aspect .
be Two nearly parallel elevated longitudinal banlds . ?
/t7 7rg .
Pa MD CC CILVIII .
P4~1XtV p./ 8J .
1 ' I , \\\ , At 0\ 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f , 7 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s8 / \ of1 1. .
, , j V , / ~~~~~~~~~ JDiukci del etiitki .
U~rnlted bay J.Basire , Fig. I. The guard or osselet of a Belemnite ( B. attenuatus ) invested by the periostricum , or external shelly capsule , c ' , c ' , c ' .
a. Part of the chambered phragmocone seen in the alveolus .
Fig. IL .
Another example of B. attenuatus , on which a large portion of the capsule remains , c ' , C ' .
Fig. III .
Exhibits the most considerable part of the structure of the Belemnite hitherto discovered .
The original is twenty-two inches in length .
a , a. Remains of the basal portion of the shelly phragmocone ; the apical chambered extremity is concealed by the investing capsule and guard , C , c. b , b. Two shelly processes proceeding from the margin of the peristome .
C , c ' , c " .
The capsule partially investing the guard ( at c ' ) , and extending upwards conceals at c , c , c , the siphonated part of the phragmocone , and expands into the horny receptacle ( c " ) , within which the peristornal processes ( b , b ' ) are contained .
A layer of dark brown animal matter extends from within the outline of the capsule at c " , under the processes of the peristome ; and is probably the remains of the soft parts that occupied the interval between the receptacle and the phragmocone .
The band on the left of the process b , presents a fibrous structure ( d , d ) , and is marked with oblique lines , as if it were part of the muscular tunic or mantle .
Fig. IV .
The alveolar part of the guard of a Belemnite split open longitudinally to show the apical chambered portion of the phragmocone ( a ) , with the shell perfect , and imbedded in the alveolus .
The phragmocone terminates in a very fine point , and is unsymmetrical ; inclining considerably to one side , in consequence of the position of the axis of the guard ( c ) .
A comparison of this figure with figs. 2 , 3 , 5 , Plate XLII .
, will at once enable the observer to perceive how essentially the phragmocone of the Belemnite differs from that of the Belemnoteuthis .
b. The radiated fractured surface of the spathose substance of the guard .
Fig , V. The same fossil , with the phragmocone partially divested of the outer shell , to display the edges of the transverse septa .
I have never seen in the Oxford Clay , the apical part of the phragmocone of a Belemnite detached from the alveolus .
2n2

