; 884 .
] On an Explanation of 341 I. " On an Explanation of Hall 's Phenomenon .
" By Shelford Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. Communicated by Professor G. q Carey Foster .
F.R.S. Received February 14 , 1884 .
i Mr. E. H. Hall 's first paper relating to what is now generally known is the " Hall effect , " appeared in the " Phil. Mag. " for March , 1880 .
it was entitled " On a New Action of the Magnet on Electric Currents , " and in it was described the following experiment:\#151 ; A strip of gold-leaf was cemented to a plate of glass and placed between he poles of an electromagnet , the plane of the glass being perpendi-jular to the magnetic lines of force .
A current derived from a Bunsen cell was passed longitudinally through the gold , and before the electromagnet was excited two equipotential points were found , by trial , near opposite edges of the gold-leaf and about midway between the ends ; when these points were connected with a galvanometer there was , of course , no deflection .
A current from a powerful battery being passed through the coils of the magnet , it was found that a galvanometer deflection occurred indicating a difference of potential between the two points , the direction of the current across the gold-leaf being opposite to that in which the gold-leaf itself would have movfed across the lines of force had it been free to do so .
On ireversing the polarity of the magnet , the direction of the transverse ( electromotive force was reversed ; and when the magnet was ^demagnetised the two points reverted to their original equipotential condition .
The phenomenon is attributed by the author to the direct action of the magnet upon the current in the gold leaf .
In a second paper , published in the " Phil. Mag. " for November , 1880 , experiments are described in which other metals were used in addition to gold .
With silver , nickel , tin , and platinum the nature of t the effect was the same as with gold though differing in degree ; but in the case of iron the direction of the transverse current was found to be reversed , a result which Mr. Hall was naturally inclined to ] connect with the magnetic properties of iron , and which he says had \gt ; been predicted by Professor Rowland .
But he was greatly puzzled to account for the fact that the two strongly magnetic metals , iron and nickel , gave opposite effects .
A third paper contained in the " Phil. Mag. " for September , 1881 , | confirmed the previous results with regard to nickel , and added that I the direction of the transverse electromotive force in the strongly magnetic metal cobalt was the same as in iron .
Mr. Hall 's latest paper on the subject appeared in the " Phil. Mag. " for May , 1883 , and is entitled , in compliance with a suggestion of Dr. I , Hopkinson 's , " Rotational Coefficients of various Metals .
" It is here stated that aluminium , copper , and brass behave in the same manner Mr. S. Bidwell .
an [ Feb. 21 , as gold ; zinc gives the same result as iron , and with lead no appreciable effect is produced .
The experimental results maybe stated in a different form from that originally adopted by Mr. Hall .
The equipotential points on opposite edges of the plate may clearly be joined by equipotential lines , and Hall 's results may be expressed by saying that in the case of gold , the equipotential lines are rotated in a direction opposite to that of the current circulating in the coils of the electromagnet , and in the case of iron the lines are rotated in the direction of the magnetising current .
In fig. 1 MNOP represents the metal plate Fig. 1 .
through which a battery current is passing from left to right , and AB is the equipotential line ( which , if the arrangement is symmetrical , as shown in the figure , will be a straight line ) joining two opposite equipotential points .
If now the south pole of a magnet is placed beneath the plate and the north pole above it ( the axis of the poles being perpendicular to the plate ) , the equipotential line will be rotated , in the case of gold , counter-clockwise to the position CD , and in the case of iron clockwise to the position EF .
Mr. Hall distinguishes the " rotational coefficient " of those metals which behave like iron by the positive sign ( + ) , and those which behave like gold by the negative sign ( \#151 ; ).* Of the thirteen different metals which Hall has tested , three\#151 ; iron , cobalt , and zinc\#151 ; are classed as positive ; nine\#151 ; gold , silver , tin , copper , brass , platinum , nickel , aluminium , and magnesium\#151 ; are negative ; and one\#151 ; lead\#151 ; shows absolutely no signs of rotation .
* In the second of Hall 's papers the direction of the " transverse electromotive force " is arbitrarily called + for gold , \amp ; c. , and \#151 ; for iron .
He subsequently adopted opposite signs for their " rotational coefficients .
" 1884 .
] Explanation of Hall 's Phenomenon , 343 The several papers abound in speculations which it is not now accessory to consider ; but very great importance has been attached o the phenomenon in consequence of the opinion expressed by Professor Rowland and others , that it is connected with the magnetic natation of the plane of polarisation of light , and thus furnishes additional evidence of an intimate relation between light and electricity .
I A number of experiments , which I have from time to time made , convinced me , however , that no direct action of the kind supposed was ever produced ; and , after several unsuccessful attempts to frame a hypothesis which would solve the mystery , I finally found that Hall 's phenomenon might be completely explained by the joint action of mechanical strain and certain thermoelectric effects .
The mechanical strain is produced by electromagnetic action .
In fig. 2 , let ABCD represent the metallic strip.through which a current Fig. 2 .
is passing from left to right .
Suppose that the south pole of a magnet is beneath it and the north pole above it , then the strip would , if free to do so , move across the lines of force in the direction indicated by the arrow OF .
But , as arranged for Hall 's experiment , the metallic strip is fixed , and cannot move bodily from its position ; it will , however , be strained in such a manner as to make it tend to assume a form more or less similar to that indicated in fig. 3 .
As thus distorted , the plate may be mapped out into six districts , in three of which the metal is ( on the whole ) subjected to longitudinal traction , while in the other three , which are shaded in the figure , it undergoes compression . .
344 Mr. S. Bidwell .
On an [ Feb. 21 Suppose that a current is passing through the plate from C to D and that A and B are two points on the opposite edges which , when the metal is free from strain , are at the same potential .
Then the Fig. 3 .
Compressed portions are shaded .
Stretched portions are black .
ratio of the resistances between the points 0 and A and the points A and D is equal to that between the points C , B , and the points B , D. And , so far as mechanical strain alone is concerned , this equality will not be disturbed by placing the plate in a magnetic field , for the strain produced will be symmetrically distributed on both sides of the middle line .
At all events , no strain could occur which would in itself affect the resistance of gold and iron in opposite ways , for the resistance of both is increased by tension and ( presumably ) diminished by longitudinal compression .
But it will be noticed that the currents from 0 to A and from B to D pass from regions which are compressed to regions which are stretched , while the opposite is the case with currents passing from C to B and from A to D. And here the thermoelectric effects above referred to come into play .
Sir William Thomson , in his Bakerian Lecture of 1856 ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1856 , p. 711 ) announced his discovery of the fact that if a stretched copper wire is connected with an unstretched wire of the same material , and the junction heated , a thermoelectric current will flow from the stretched to the unstretched wire through the hot junction ; while if the wires are of iron , the direction of the current will be from unstretched to stretched .
From this it might be inferred that a current would flow through the heated junction from an unstretched , or free , copper wire to a longitudinally compressed copper wire , and from a longitudinally compressed iron wire to a free iron wire ; and I have ascertained by actual experiment that this is the case , though with copper the observed effect was very small .
A fortiori , therefore , the direction of the current through the heated junction will be from stretched to compressed in the case of copper wire , and from compressed to stretched in the case of iron wire .
If\gt ; 884 .
] Explanation of HalVs Phenomenon .
345 therefore , a current is passed from a stretched portion of a wire to a ; ompressed portion , heat will ( according to the laws of the Peltier i ffect ) be absorbed at the junction if the metal is copper , and will be leveloped at the junction if the metal is iron .
In passing from compressed to stretched regions the converse effects will occur .
Let us now imagine the metal plate to be divided into four equal Regions , A , B , 0 , D as shown in fig. 4 .
Let a current pass through she plate from E to F and let a force ( produced electromag-aetically or otherwise ) be applied in the direction HG .
First , suppose that the plate is of copper .
Then the current travelling from E to the line OG passes from a compressed to a stretched oortion of the metal ; heat will , therefore , be developed in the region A. Between the line OG and the point F , the current passes from a stretched to a compressed portion ; heat will , therefore , be absorbed in the region B. For similar reasons heat will be absorbed in C and developed in D. The temperature of the copper plate will , therefore , not be uniform ; the portions A and D being on the whole hotter than the portions B and C. But the resistance of a metal increases with its temperature .
The resistance of A and D will , therefore , be greater , and the resistance of B and C smaller than before the plate was subjected to the strain .
If , therefore , GH were originally an equipotential line , it is clear that it will be so no longer .
An equipotential line through the point O will now be inclined to GH in the direction KL as shown in the figure.# Fig. 4 .
Compressed portions are shaded .
Stretched portions are black .
Supposing the plate to be of iron instead of copper , the thermoelectric effects will be reversed , and the regions which in the former case were hot , will now be cold , and vice versa .
The distribution of * The displaced equipotential lines KL , MN , will in point of fact probably be curved , and not straight as drawn .
Mr. S. Bidwell .
On an [ Feb. 21 , resistance will be changed in a corresponding manner , and the equi-potential line will be rotated in the opposite direction MN .
The peculiar thermoelectric properties of copper and iron discovered by Sir William Thomson are thus seen to be sufficient to account for Hall 's phenomena in the case of those metals .
It has often been said that the best test of the truth of a theory is the power it gives of accurate prediction .
If the explanation which I have offered of Hall 's phenomenon be the correct one , it is clear that Hall 's " positive " metals , cobalt and zinc , should when tested according to Sir William Thomson 's method exhibit the same thermoelectric effects as iron ; that his " negative " metals should behave thermoelectrically in the same manner as copper ; and that lead might be expected to be thermoelectrically unaffected by strain .
It became Fio .
5 .
exceedingly interesting to ascertain if this was the case , and I therefore proceeded to repeat Thomson 's experiment upon all the metals mentioned by Hall .
When it was conveniently possible to do so , the metal was used in the form both of wire and of sheet or foil , and except in the case of cobalt , the following simple method of operating was adopted .
A short piece of the wire or strip of the foil to be examined was held at the ends by two fixed brass clamps , about 5 or 6 centims. apart , which were connected with the terminals of a low resistance reflecting galvanometer .
A point near the middle of the metal was then gripped by a pair of pincers which had been heated in a Bunsen flame , and one half of the wire was drawn taut , leaving the other half slack ; a galvanometer deflection immediately occurred , which ceased when the tension was discontinued .
The process was then repeated , the pull being made in the opposite direction , this 884 .
] Explanation of Hall 's Phenomenon .
\#169 ; suited in an opposite deflection of the galvanometer .
The arrange-aent is indicated in fig. 5 , where A and B are the clamps between which the wire is suspended , C the pincers , and G the galvanometer .
i The directions taken by the currents through the hot junctions are Wven in the following table:\#151 ; Table .
S=stretched .
U=unstretched .
Form used .
Current .
Hall 's sign .
Wire and foil , pure S to U Wire and sheet , annealed U to S + Wire , commercial .
S to U \#151 ; Wire and foil U to S Wire ... ... . .
S to IT \#151 ; Wire and foil S to U \#151 ; Foil , purity 99 #9 per cent S to U 1 Wire , commercially pure U to 8 L _ Jewellers ' 18 ct .
wire and sheet. .
S to U r Jewellers ' 15 ct .
, sheet .
S to U J Wire and foil S to U Wire and f oil , pure. .
U to 8 -( ?
) Rod , 8 millims. diameter U to S + Ribbon S to TJ \#151 ; Foil S to U \#151 ; Foil ( assay ) No current .
Nil .
Metals .
Copper . .
Iron ... .
Brass ... Zinc ... . .
Nickel ... Platinum Gold _ Silver ... . .
f Aluminium .
Cobalt ... .
Magnesium .
Tin ______ Lead ... ... It will be seen that in every case , excepting that of aluminium and one out of five specimens of gold , there is a perfect correspondence between the direction of the thermoelectric current and the sign of Hall 's coefficient .
The anomalous specimen of gold was supplied by Messrs. Johnson and Matthey , by whom its purity was estimated at 99*6 per cent. I do not think that its exceptional behaviour could be accounted for by its physical condition , because , after being succes-isively annealed , raised to a red heat and plunged into cold water , and 1 finally hammered until it was quite hard , it invariably gave the same !
result .
There are , it seems to me , only two possible ways of accounting for it .
Either it behaves as if it were absolutely pure gold , in which case the professedly purer piece of foil , which gave the opposite effect , and all the specimens of gold used by Mr. Hall , were affected by impurities ; or it is alloyed with some substance which is capable of reversing the ordinary action of pure gold .
Since this specimen was unfortunately in the form of wire , it was impossible to test it for the Hall effect .
The aluminium , in the form both of foil and of wire , gave opposite effects to those indicated by the sign of Hall 's coefficient .
I , therefore , mounted a portion of the foil upon glass , and performed Hall 's 348 On an Explanation of Hall 's Phenomenon .
[ Feb. 21 , experiment with it .
As I expected , the sign of the " rotational coefficient " proved to be + like that of iron , zinc , and cobalt .
It is probable , therefore , that the specimen of aluminium used by Mr. Hall differed in its chemical or physical constitution from mine .
Both my specimens were supplied by Messrs. Johnson and Matthey as pure .
With regard to cobalt , since it could not be obtained in the form either of wire or of sheet , it was necessary for the observation of the thermoelectric effect to treat it in a somewhat different manner from that previously described .
A rod of the metal about 8 millims. in diameter and 7 centims. long was firmly held by one end in a vice and both ends were connected by wires with the terminals of the galvanometer .
The middle of the rod was gripped with gas-tongs , which had been previously heated in a Bunsen flame , and stress was produced by twisting .
It was found that while the stress continued a Current passed from the free to the strained portion of the rod through the hot part .
The direction of the current was the same whether the torsion was clockwise or counter-clockwise , and it ceased the moment the stress was discontinued .
For the sake of comparison a copper rod was treated in a similar manner , and the resulting current was in the reverse direction .
There can be little doubt that in experiments of this kind torsion is perfectly equivalent to traction , both tending to draw asunder the molecules of the metal .
I venture to think that the considerations and experiments detailed in this paper render it abundantly evident that the phenomenon described by Mr. Hall involves no new law of nature , but is merely an example of certain thermoelectric effects which had been observed nearly thirty years ago .

