]\gt ; 1 .
02 The Mechanics of the Molccnle .
By B. A. HOUSTOUN , M.A. , Ph. D. , D.Sc .
, Lecturer in Physical tics in the University of Glasgow .
( Communicated by Prof. A. Gray , F.R.S. Received November 6 , 1911 , \mdash ; Read January 11 , 1912 .
) In the ultra-violet and visible spectrum water is very transparent .
In the infra-red it absorbs very strongly .
E. Aschkinass*has ated its absorption in the infra-red , and has represented his results in tables , giving a constant in terms of being defined by the equation where and I are the intensities before and after traversing a layer cm .
thick .
I have calculated into the more useful constant being the dielectric constant , and have plotted the result in the curve .
The two constants snd are connected by the relation CTRUU or WATER From the curve it is evident that water has two great maxima at and respectively .
These occur also in water vapour ; they do not occur in oxygen or hydrogen .
It seems therefore plausible to ) nect them with the linkings of the oxygen and hydrogen atoms .
A system of three atoms should , of course , have two periods .
' Ann. .
Phys 189 vol. 56 , p. 401 .
According to W. W. Coblentz watel ' becomes more opaque again in the region between and ; while , according to Rubens and Aschkinass , water apour is relatively transparent in region .
The , Ilechanics of the Water , Molecvle .
Let the figure represent an oxygen atom of mass and two hydrogen atoms each of mass .
The first hydrogen atom has lost one electron bo the second , and the second has lost two electrons to the oxygen atom .
We cannot connect the two hydrogen atoms directly to the oxygen atom , since from chemical considerations they are not situated in the same way with regard to the latter .
Let be respectively the co-ordinates of the three atoms , the number of water molecules per cubic centimetre , and X the component of the electric intensity in the light wave .
Then , by the theory of dispersion , If we write for , the right-hand side becomes since .
Substitute for for , and the equation finally becomes Now consider the equations of motion of the three atoms .
Since all equations in optics are linear , the forces between the atoms must be linear functions of the distances .
We can look upon the inverse-square-law pull as balanced by the structure of t , he atoms , or , better still , we can regard the three lines of force as acting like three equally strong spiral , a line of force being probably a more fundamental thing than the inverse square law .
If we suppose that there is no friction , the equations of motion are then Combine the first and second and the second and third of these equations , write and , and we obtain , ( 2 ) .
( 3 ) Let the transmitted radiation be of type , assume that the vibrations are forced , solve ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) and substitute in ( 1 ) .
Then we obtain , omitting the ntermediate steps .
' .
( 4 ) Now write for in ( 4 ) .
This is equivalent to writing equations ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) in the form The Mechanics of the ?
Molecule .
to the introduction of dissipative forces of a special kind .
On equating the imaginary parts of side , ( 4 ) then ives It can easily be shown that in through an absorption band the maximum change in is equal to half the maximum value of , and hence ( cf. curve ) must be ] than .
Assume that has the constant value the of absorption .
Then The positions of the two absorption bands are given by and .
The ratio of their wave-lengths is therefore The actual value should be Let be the maximum value of for an absorption band , the wavelength of the for which has half its maximum value , and the value of .
We have respectively for the first and second bands , and .
We shall the values for each band to calculate the value of For the first batld , If be easured in electromagnetic units cuts out .
Write except in the factor .
Then , for the other band we obtain On substituting for , and , we obtain from the first band and from the second .
As denotes the elementary Active of of electricity divided by the mass of the hydrogen atom it should be about 9660 .
The model has thus been tested numerically on three independent points .
It yives 2 for the ratio of the wave-lengths instead of , and it gives 7110 or 1550 for the value of instead of 9660 , according as we use tlIe first second band .
If we consider the simplicity of the assumptions made , and the room there for modification .
making different for the different ) , the agreement must be arded as ratifying .
The other maxima in the absorption spectrum are possibly due to mole complex lecules .
This is incidentally the first time that chemical bonds have been connected mathematically with absorption bands .
oscopic IConnectio with the Active fication of .
II .
of lements Compounds excited by the Nitrogen .
By the Hon. R. J. STRUTT , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , and A. , Assistant Professor of Physics , of Science and Technology , South tono .
( Received November 13 , \mdash ; Read November 23 , 1911 .
) [ PLATE 6 .
] Introductor ?
y. In continuation of previous accounts of the active modification of nitrogen , * and of the spectrum of the afterglow which is associated with it , the present paper ives further details of the spectra which are developed when various elements and compounds are inlroduced into the glowing gas .
investigations of the spectra were made by direct observation , and with a small quartz spectrograph , and greater resolving power was required a larger quartz raph and an instrument of the Littrow type were used .
The arrangements for producing the afterglow were as described in the previous papers .
By means of a mechanical pump a stream of purified * B. J. Strutt , Bakerian Lecture , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 85 , p. 219 .
A. and R. J. Strutt , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 85 , p.

