IV .
" On the Behaviour of the Aldehydes with Acids .
" By A. GEUTHER , Esq. , arild R. CAUTMELL , Esq. Commnunicated by Dr. FRANKLAND .
Received Junie 8th , 1859 .
[ Abstract .
] rrhe authors of this paper , with a view of obtaining a series of combinations homologous with those already obtainied from glycol by C 1-n4 Wurz-viz .
diacetate of glycol , C 113 02 0,4 , and the isomeric body C4 11302 ) of Geuther from conimon aldehyde , by the action of anhydrous acetic acid , have subjected common aldehyde , acrolein , and oil of bitter almoonds to the actioni of hydrochloric , hydriodic , and sulphurous acids , I. Acrolein , -Metacrolein .
1 .
Acrolein and Hydrochloric Acid .
By acting on acrolein , C6 114 03 , with dry hydrochloric acid gas , a body is formed of the composition C , H , 02 Cl , resulting from a direct combination of one atom of aldehyde with one atom of the acid .
This substance is insoluble in water , and can be washed with it in order to free it from any excess of acid or acrolein which may be still present .
By drying , which can only be done over sulphuric acid at low temperatures , the body , for which the authors propose the name of hydrolchlorate of acrolein , is obtained in a mass of white crystals , presenting a texture like that of velvet .
It melts at 32 ' C. into a thick oil , having a smell of slightly rancid fat .
It is readily soluble in alcohol or ether , on evaporation of which it remnains behind as a thick oil .
When boiled with water , it remains , as far as can be seen , unchanged .
Dilute solutions of the alkalies appear not to act on it .
Heated with solution of ammonia , in a sealed tube , at 1000 C. , it is decomposed , chloride of amonium and acrolein ammonia being the result .
It does not combine with bichloride of platinum when in solution in alcohol , and very slowly reduces boiling ammoniacal solution of nitrate of silver .
Heated alone , it decomposes into acrolein and hydrochloric acid .
By the action of concentrated hydrochloric acid acrolein is set free .
Dilute sulphuric and nitric acids decompose it likewise , setting acrolein free .
Heated with hydrate of potash it gives off hydrogen , and there distils at the same time an oily body , which solidifies into magnificent colourless crystals , analyses of which prove it to be an isomeric acrolein , for which the authors propose the name Metacrolein .
Metacrolein as thus obtained is insoluble in water , but is capable of being recrystallized from alcohol or ether .
The crystals form very long nieedles , more especially when melted metacrolein before solidifying is allowed to flow about in a glass tube .
They resemble very much in appearance the crvstals of acetamide , possess a peculiar aromatic smell , and have a taste at first producing a cooling and afterwards a burning sensation .
They are lighter than water .
They melt at about 50 ?
C. , becoming solid at about 45 ?
C. Before melting they are somewhat volatilizable , on which account they can be distilled in the vapour of water .
On being heated , metacrolein is changed into common acrolein .
Dilute alkalies do not effect any change in this substance .
By heating with mineral acids , common acrolein is set free .
On leading dry hydrochloric acid gas over metacrolein in a bulb-tube , the metacrolein melts and combines with the acid , producing the already-named hydrochlorate of acrolein .
From this behaviour , the authors believe the acrolein contained in the combination of hydrochloric acid to be metacrolein , and not common acrolein .
If metacrolein be viewed as C1 .
H18 04 , the formula of the hydrochloric acid compound would then be C12,11H , O , 21-1 Cl ; and the formation of metacrolein may be assumed to take place according to the following equation , C , , , -18 0 , , 211 Cli 2K0110 C , 1-80 4 +2KC14-4110 .
The evolutionof hydrogen has been found to be the restilt ; of a secondary action .
1-o 2 .
Acrolein and Hydr-iodic Acid .
These substances act very violently on each other if the acid in the gaseous form be led into acrolein , producing a hissing noise , as when red-hot iron is plunged into water .
The resulting substance is insoluble in alcohol , ether , acids , and alkalies .
Bisulphide of carbon dissolves out a little free iodine .
Heated alone , iodine is set free .
3 .
Acrolein and Water .
Acrolein mixed with two or three times its volnume of water , and exposed to the temperature of boiling water for eight days , undergoes a gradual change .
Acrylic acid is produced , and a resinlous substance , soluble in ether , melting at about 600 , and becoming solid at 5-5 ?
C. At common temperatures it is hard and brittle , like resin .
The per-centage composition of this resin , on analysis , was found to be the same as that obtained by Redtenbacher , and ilamed Desacrylharz* , viz , carbon 66-6 , hydrogen 7.4 .
4 .
Metacrolein and Hydriodic Acid .
When dry hydriodic acid gas is passed over dry metacroleirn , the latter melts , and chaniges into a heavy yellow solution , resembling in smell and appearance the hydrochlorate of acrolein .
It can be washed with water , and appears at ordinary temperatures to solidify into crystals ; placed over sulphuric acid to dry , it decomposes , becoming brown , and setting iodine free .
From the analogy in its formation , this compound can be properly viewed as hydriodate of acrolelln .
II .
Aldehyde .
1 .
Aldehyde tand Hydrochloric Acid , Lieben found that by the action of hydrochloric acid on aldehyde , a body of the composition C8 118 02 C12was produced , having a con stant boiling-point of from 116 0 to 11 70 C.t The authors confirm Lieben 's paper as to the replacement of 02 by C12 in two atoms of aldehyde , and have further obtained a new combination , analysis of it giving the formula as C2UII2 0 Cl2 in which two equivalents of oxygen are replaced by the same nuLmber of equiivalents of chlorine in three atoms of aldehyde .
By the action of Liebig 's Annalen , vol xlvii .
p. 145 .
I Ibid. vol. evi , p. I36 water , this compound , like that of Lieben , is resolved into hydrochloric acid and aldehyde .
By heat , it is brokern up into aldehyde and the body C8 18 ?
12 Cl2 .
The authors propose for it the name protoxychloride of aldehyde .
2 .
Aldehyde and Hydrzodic Acid .
By the actioni of hydriodic acid on aldehyde a compound is produced that decomposes with water into the aldehyde and the acid again , on which account it could not be purified .
On heating , it is suddenly decomposed at 700 C. , leaving a black resinous residue , which on distillation gave off vapours of iodine .
In its mode of formation it is analogous to the bodies produced by the action of hydrochloric acid on aldehyde .
3 .
Aldehyde and Suiphurous Aeid-Eladehyde .
Dry sulphurous acid gas led into anhydrous aldehyde in cold water is absorbed with great avidity , 11 grammes of aldehyde absorbing 19 grammes of the acid , whilst an increase of volume takes place .
The absorption-coefficient of aldehyde for this acid was found to be 14 times greater than that of alcohol for the same , and seven times greater than that of water for it .
No chemical combination appears to take place , as , on passing a stream of carbonic acid through the fluid at a slightly elevated temperature , almost all the sulphurous acid can be driven out again .
If aldehyde , saturated with sulphurous acid , be left for about a week at ordinary temperatures in a well-stoppered bottle , it suffers in this time almost a complete change into a body for which the authors propose at present the name Elaldehyde .
To obtain it pure , the fluid is mixed with as much water as is necessary to dissolve it up ; the acid is saturated by degrees with chalk , and the fluid obtained is distilled so long as oily drops pass into the receiver .
The common aldehyde is separated in a resinous form by digesting for some time with-solution of caustic soda or potash .
By repeated distillation , the elaldehyde can be obtained free from everything but a little water .
Analysis gives the formula of this aldehyde as C4 114 02 It is therefore isomeric with common aldehyde .
As it was obtained in qutantity by the foregoing method , its properties were further examniined .
Its boiling-point was found to be 1240 C. , and solidifvi-ig-poiuit 100 C. Whilst solidifying it likewise starts into crystals , the melting-point of which is also 100 C. The aldehyde here described under the name Elaldehyde is identical with that of Weidenbush* .
Its mode of production from common aldehyde is the same ; its boiling-point likewise agrees with that of the aldehyde of Weidenbush .
The elaldehyde of Fehliingt the authors believe to be identical with that they have obtained , and also that obtained by Weidenbush .
That which goes far to prove the identity of the two latter is their vapour-densities .
That of Weidenbush 's is given as 4 58 , whilst that of Fehling 's is 4 52 ; both are colnverted into common aldehyde by heating gently with dilute sulphuric acid , and both crystallize at low temperatures .
The only material discrepancy between them is the boiling-point of 940 C. given by Fehling for elaldehyde , whilst Weidenbush gives the boiling-point of his aldehyde as 1250 C. IlI .
Oil of Bitter lr41nonds , 1 .
Oil of Bitter 4lmond8 and Hydrochloric Acid .
This acid does not combine with oil of bitter almnonds .
Experiments made in sealed tubes , heated first to 1000 C. , and afterwards to 2000 , gave no signs of a combination having been effected .
2 .
Oil of Bitter Abnondy acnd Hydriodic Jcid .
Much better results can be obtained when hydriodic acid is allowed to act on oil of bitter almonds .
The gas is absorbed , producing an increase of volume and of temperature , and at the same time a little water .
At the end of the operation two layers appear , of a dark-brown colour .
The upper one , which is about a sixth part of the quaintity of the under one , consists of concentrated hydriodic acid , whilst the under one , a heavy oil , is a compound of iodine and oil of bitter almonds .
To obtain the substance in a pure state , it was first washed well with water , to remove excess of the acid ; next treated with moderately strong solution of sulphite of soda , to remove any excess of oil ; lastly , on washing with water , the salt was removed from it .
It can be dried rapidly over sulphuric acid at a temperature not higher than 200 C. A higher temperature produces gradual decompositioni .
In the preparation of this sub* Liebig 's Airialcn , vol. lxvi .
p. 155 .
1 Liebig 's Annaleoi , vol. xxvii .
P. 320 .
stanice , 6 grammes of oil of bitter almonds absorbed 11 grammes of hydriodic acid gas .
Analyses of the substance lead to the formula 042 tt18 02 Il which will be observed to be 3 atoms of oil of bitter almonds , in which 2(02 ) is replaced by 2(12 ) .
The authors propose for it the name Oxyiodide of Benzaldehyde .
The substance thus obtained melts at 280 C. , and solidifies at about 25 ?
C. into almost colourless rhombic plates if rapidly cooled down .
When in a liquid state , the crystals mostly occur in groups of long needles .
The colour of the substance in a melted state is brownish yellow ; at moderate temperatures , and on standing in the air , it becomes still darker in colouir .
It possesses a smell very much resembling cress .
It volatilizes at common temperatures , its vapour attacking the eyes powerfully .
Its vapour at higher temperatures , when carried away by that of water , becomes more and more intolerable , producing a very inflammatory effect on the eyes and nose , which .
is more painful and permanent than that from acrolein .
It is insoluble and sinks in water , but can be distilled in the vapour of it .
Watery solutions of carbonates and sulphites of the alkalies do not act onr it .
Alcoholic solution of potash decomposes it by degrees on .
heatinrg a little , producing much iodide of potassium , some beizoic acid , and an oily body that remains dissolved in the alcohol , which is not oil of bitter almonds .
Alcoholic and watery solutions of ammonia change it slowly into iodide of ammonium and oil of bitter almonds .
Boiled with solution of nitrate of silver , it yields iodide of silver , and a smell of oil of bitter almonds .
Concentrated hydrochloric acid changes it by degrees , becoming brown ; concentrated sulphuric acid dissolves it on heating , with the separation of iodine .
In conclusion , the authors.remark that the action of hydrochloric acid on aldehyde may be regarded as consisting in the replacement of two equivalents of oxygen by two of chlorine in one , two , or three atoms of this body : thus , Aldehyde containing chlorine .
1 atom of aldehyde C0 H41 2 44 H0 C12 2 , , , , 08 04 08 8 102012 Lieben 's body .
3 , , 12 111 02 1112 04 01 Protoxychloride of 12 12 6 22 12 4 21 laldehyde .
The action of bydriodic acid .
on oil of bitter almonds gives rise also to a body derived from 3 atoms of ' this aldehyde , in which 2 ( 02 ) is replaced by 2 ( 12 ) 3 atoms of oil of bitter almonds , Oxyiodide of Beilzaldehyde , 42 18 ?
C42 H18 028 I4 In the case of acrolein , the action of hydrochloric acid is different ; it combines directly with it , no elimination of water taking place .
If we conceive , however , that , in the action of this acid on commonl aldehyde , the water which is there produced is the effect of a further decomposition , then we may readily suppose that , if this further decomposition had taken place in the case of hydrochloric acid and acrolein , a body derived from two atoms of acrolein , and having 02 replaced by C12 , corresponding to the seconld term in the combination of aldehyde and chlorine , would have been the result ; thus2 atoms of hydrochlorate of acroleinC02 211 04 C122(HlO ) 0C12 8 0012 , corresponding to the term C H8 02 C12 ia common aldehyde .
There is a curious connexion which may be menitioned , in this substitution of chlorine for oxygen in aldehyde , between the formula of these bodies containing chlorine , auid those of the isomeric modifications of aldehyde .

