252 Dr. A. A. Common .
On the N [ Dec. 10 , ji II .
" Note on the Necessity of using Well-Annealed and Homogeneous Glass for the Mirrors of Telescopes .
" By A. A. ff Common , LL.f ) .
, F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1891 .
L In 1880 I ordered of the St. Gobain Glassworks , through their ^ London agent , M. de Grand Ry , a disk of glass for the mirror of a 5-foot telescope .
The limit of weight imposed by the manufacturers j permitted a disk of about 61 inches diameter and 5 inches thickness ; this was made with a hole through the middle of 10 inches , in order to L enable the telescope to be used as a Cassegrain telescope if required . .
Not being in a position to begin work at that time , the disk of glass was left in its case , standing against a wall , at a slight angle , till 1886 , when it was put upon a grinding machine to be worked into a mirror .
With the intention of acquiring the necessary skill to make a good mirror , I intended to make many mirrors of this one disk by successive re-grinding and re-figuring .
The first polishing was done before the whole surface of the glass was brought down to a uniform face .
On inspection by Foucault 's method of testing at the centre of curvature , the image of a round hole was found to be very elliptical ; very little attention was paid to this at the time , as it was thought that subsequent work would bring all right .
After many re-grindings , in each of which a practically new mirror was made , this elliptic appearance of the image persisted .
Local polishing was tried , to improve the figure of revolution , without success , in fact it made matters worse .
The telescope mounting being ready in 1888 , the mirror was finished as well as possible , and put into the telescope , where a star could be examined , this not being possible when the mirror was on the machine ; for photographic purposes the mirror was fair , giving good stellar images , but for visual work , with moderate powers , the definition did not come up to the required standard .
It was of interest to find the cause of this bad image ; at first it was thought that the long time the disk had stood on edge , at an angle , had caused it ; in this case it might in time become less ; but , after being re-made in 1889 , and again in 1890 , the mirror was , it anything , worse than before .
When polished , in certain lights broad bands of colour , red and blue , could be seen in the body of the glass about a foot from the edge all round , indicating in my opinion much internal tension , probably due to imperfect annealing .
Another disk was ordered in December , 1888 , as soon as the first had been tried in the telescope .
This second disk was delivered in 1890 and made into a mirror , without showing in the slightest manner any of the defects of the first .
In the course of the work on this last disk , a discovery was ma 1891.1 Well-Annealed Glass for the Mirrors of Telescopes .
253 that most probably explains the cause of failure of the first ; in the process of polishing a certain amount of heat is produced , and it was \#166 ; always the custom to allow the mirror to cool down for some hours before testing ; it was also always considered that some slight change of focal length was caused by the heat , but I was quite unprepared , I on testing the mirror directly after polishing , in order to determine what this change amounted to , to find the enormous amount thus !
produced .
After two hours figuring with a 15-inch polisher , with the face of harder resin than usual , so that the friction and heat were below the average amount in one polishing , the change of focal length was found to be 4 inches , that is to say , the image was made i 4 inches further from the mirror than the usual place , or the mirror had at that time a radius of curvature 2 inches greater than the 1 normal ; in the course of three hours this had disappeared , and the ; image was produced at the normal place .
As the whole trouble of 1 the first mirror was caused by opposite diameters of the same zone \#166 ; coming to a focus in planes differing by about of an inch , it cau i easily be seen that this may have been caused by the failure of the | glass to contract in a perfect and regular manner ; in figuring , a [ large amount of the work would necessarily be done on the expanded glass , and it is reasonable to suppose that the figure thus given 1 would be correct while the glass was in this state , but that on cooling , unless the glass contracted regularly , this correct figure i would be lost .
After the second mirror was finished the first mirror was re-ground , \#174 ; and the polishing was done very slowly , half-an-hour in the morning , i and the same time in the evening , with manifest improvement in the \#174 ; figure , but still without getting rid of all the defects .
That the fault was in the glass there is no doubt ; the method of 1 working adopted shows , in the case of the second 5-foot , and in other mirrors of 20- , 30- , and 36-inch mirrors , that a perfect surface of revolution can always be obtained if the glass is good ; unless this fl* perfect surface of revolution is obtained , it is quite hopeless to expect a good mirror .
The makers could not re-anneal the first disk , but they have under-taken , in a very handsome manner , to replace it by a new one ; this l* I hope will be as good as the second one made by them , which is as nearly as possible perfect .

