1879 .
] On Electrical Discharges through Rarefied Gases .
21 situ on its liquefaction , or else was , as the result of the great floods consequent upon the bursting of lake barriers , carried successively to lower levels , leaving here and there banks of sand and gravel at various heights on the hill sides .
These destructive floods combined with the incessant river inundations due to the same general thaw of the great ice-sheet , carried down and spread out in the valleys and plains the great beds of gravel and sand , which , with the modifications since brought about by long continued fluviatile action , have given rise to various forms of escars , terraces , and other less defined accumulations of these detrital materials .
May 8 , 1879 .
tTHE PRESIDENT ( followed by Lord LINDSAY , Vice-President ) in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Sensitive State of Electrical Discharges through Rarefied Gases .
" By William Spottiswoode , P.R.S. , and S. Fletcher Moulton , late Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge .
Received April 2 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) It has frequently been remarked that the luminous column produced by electric discharges in vacuum tubes sometimes displays great sensitiveness on the approach of the finger , or other conductor , to the tube .
This is notably the case when with an induction coil a very rapid break is used , or when with any constant source of electricity an air-spark is interposed in the circuit leading to the tube .
The striking character of the phenomena , and the opportunity which they showed for affecting the discharge from the outside during its passage , led the authors of this paper to consider that a special examination of this sensitive state would be desirable .
All the circumstances under which sensitiveness is produced appear to agree in requiring , first , that there should be a rapid intermittence in the current leading to the tube ; and secondly , that the individual intermittent discharges should be small in quantity and extremely brief , if not instantaneous , in duration .
Both these requirements are fulfilled by the methods used in the present investigation^ viz. , a 22 Messrs. W. Spottiswoode and S. F. Moulton .
[ May 8 , Holtz machine with a suitable air-spark between the machine and the tube , and a small coil with a rapid break .
If a conductor be made to approach a tube conveying a sensitive discharge , due to an air-spark in the positive branch of the circuit , a series of effects is produced , of which the feeblest and the strongest are the most pronounced .
The transition from one to the other is so rapid that the intermediate phases may be easily overlooked .
In the first case , the luminous column is repelled by the conductor ; in the second it is broken into two parts which stretch out in two tongues towards the point on the tube nearest the conductor , while a negative halo appears between them .
That these effects are due to the inductive action of the conductor , or more particularly to re-distributions of electricity in it , co-periodic with the air-spark , and not to any permanent charge , is shown by the following experiments .
A non-conductor , whether charged or not , is without effect .
The effect of a conductor increases with its size or capacity , and with its proximity to the tube , until the fullest effect ( viz. , that given by an earth connexion ) is produced .
That the effects are not due to electro-dynamic , or to magnetic action , is shown by the fact that a coil of wire produces the same result , whether the ends be joined or not .
The effects of an iron core and helix with open ends are often comparable with , and sometimes equal to , those when the ends , being connected with a battery , the whole becomes an electro-magnet .
The effect upon the interior is , in fact , due to the relief given by the conductor to the electric tension on the outer surface of the tube and the space around it , caused by the individual discharges .
Instead , however , of connecting a point on the tube with a large conductor or with earth , we may connect it with one or other terminal of the tube .
And a further study of the subject shows that all the phenomena due to action from without may be produced by means of one or other of these connexions .
Connexion with the non-air-spark terminal gives the relief effects described above ; connexion with the air-spark terminal gives another set of effects .
Of these the feeblest has the appearance of attraction , while the strongest shows an abrupt termination of the positive column in the neighbourhood of the point , followed by a negative halo , and then by a recommencement of the positive column in the direction of the negative terminal .
Each of !
these sectional discharges is in fact independent and complete in itself , and they are due to impulses of positive electricity thrown into the tube from the air-spark .
At the positive terminal these impulses are thrown directly in ; at the points of connexion they are due to induction , ab extra .
The negative part of what was originally neutral meets the positive column , and satisfies it as it arrives , while the positive leaps forward to meet the negative due from the negative terminal .
1879 .
] On Electrical Discharges through Rarefied Gases .
The effects above described need not be confined to a single patch or ring of conducting material placed upon the tube ; but they may be produced many times over in the same tube by a series of rings arranged at suitable distances .
By this means the column may be broken into a series of sections , all terminating with well-defined configurations towards the negative end , and having greater or less length , according to the position of the rings .
In the paper itself , arguments are there brought forward showing that these sectional discharges represent striae not merely in their appearance , but also in their function and structure .
But the discussion could hardly be produced within the limits of an abstract .
Returning from the digression about striae , the authors next give evidence , derived mainly from the revolving mirror , and from the discharges of a partially charged Leyden jar , for the following conclusion : That the passage of the discharge occupies a time sufficiently short in comparison with the interval between the discharges to prevent any interference between successive pulses .
Certain experiments are then described which indicate that the discharge is effected , under ordinary circumstances , by the passage through the tube from the air-spark terminal of free electricity , of the same name as the electricity at that terminal .
In the case of an induction coil , where the air-spark must be considered as existing at both terminals , there is evidence of a neutral zone , where the sensitiveness disappears .
The position of this zone may be altered by damping the impulses at either terminal ; or it may be abolished by connecting one terminal with earth .
The impulses may even be so distributed as to divide electrically a single tube into three sections , the two extremes presenting visible discharges , with a dark section between them .
Looking at all these phenomena from an opposite point of view , we may , by means of the relief effects , determine the terminal from which a discharge proceeds , and the distance to which it reaches without provoking a response from the other .
And through these considerations , together with others detailed in the paper , the authors are led to the conclusion that the discharges at the two terminals of a tube are in the main independent , and that they are each determined primarily by the conditions at their own terminal , and only in a secondary degree by those at the opposite terminal .
In illustration of this view , an account is then given of the production of unipolar , positive , or negative discharges in a tube .
In such cases , the discharge being insufficient of itself to pass through the tube , returns by the way by which it entered .
This closes a series of experiments , the result of which is that the discharges from the two terminals can be made of equal intensity , or of any required degree of inequality ; or the discharge can be made to issue from one terminal only , the other acting only receptively ; or 24 Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Solid Nuclei .
[ May 8 , it can be made to return into its own terminal , while the other takes no part in the discharge ; or , finally , the two terminals can be made to pour out independent discharges of the same name , each of which returns to its own terminal .
Having traced the relation between the two parts of the discharge , and having found means for controlling their range and influence , the authors were led to inquire whether there be any experimental evidence of the state of the tube during the occurrence of the discharge .
Some experiments with two pieces of tinfoil of unequal size placed near the ends of the tube and metallically connected ; and others with a strip of tinfoil placed along the tube , all gave effects showing that the discharge cannot be simultaneous throughout the tube .
The phenomena appear to require for their interpretation that , in front of the pulse coming from the ( positive ) air-spark terminal , there is , during the interval between the pulses , a rising negative potential .
This is entirely swept out by the pulse as it advances along the tube ; after which the process is repeated .
The condition of things behind the pulse is more difficult to determine ; but an experiment with the telephone gives reason to think that parts of the tube nearer to the non-air-spark end are in a condition to demand relief , before those nearer to the air-spark terminal have ceased to require it .
And on this account the discharge may , perhaps , be more nearly represented by a lazy tongs than by a bullet .
How far the results obtained from the sensitive state are applicable to ordinary discharges is a question which cannot yet be definitively answered .
But the marked similarities in the phenomena , and the predisposing circumstances of striation or non-striation , as well as in the terminal peculiarities of the two kinds of discharge , point strongly to the conclusions that all vacuum discharges are disruptive ; and that sensitive differ from non-sensitive discharges mainly in the scale of the discontinuity due to the disruptiveness , causing a difference between the two classes of phenomena analogous to that between impulsive and continuous forces in dynamics .
II .
" On the Action of Solid Nuclei .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received April 22 , 1879 .
It is stated in my second paper on supersaturated saline solutions ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1870 , p. 53 ) , that among nuclear bodies " are permanently porous substances , such as charcoal , coke , pumice , meerschaum , " also that " certain liquids act as nuclei by separating water instead of salt from supersaturated solutions .
Absolute alcohol acts in this way .
"

