61 Optical Investigation of Solidified Gases .
II.\#151 ; The Crystallographic Properties of Hydrogen and Oxygen .
By Walter Wahl , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Sir James Dewar , F.R.S. Received September 19 , \#151 ; Read November 21 , 1912 .
) In a recently published paper I have described a method and apparatus for the optical investigation of crystalline nitrogen and argon and other bodies solidifying at extremely low temperatures.* The determination of the general crystallographic characters of these bodies by crystal-optical methods was also described .
The following communication deals with the optical investigation of solid hydrogen and oxygen .
In order to liquefy and solidify hydrogen in the crystallisation vessel described in the paper mentioned it is necessary to use liquid and solid hydrogen as cooling agents , and the apparatus for the investigation of nitrogen and argon has accordingly had to be modified .
Fig. 1 shows the arrangement of the apparatus used for working with liquid hydrogen .
To mechanical pump To mechanical pump fo mechanic^ pump A is a silvered vacuum vessel provided with two observation slits .
Through a metal cap a long , narrow , test-tube shaped vacuum vessel , B , is fixed into the vacuum vessel A. Through the same cap a syphon , D , by which liquid * ' Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' 1912 , A , vol. 87 , p. 371 .
Dr. W. Wahl .
[ Sept. 19 , air can be admitted , and a tube connected with the mechanical pump and the mercury barometer-valve , E , are inserted .
The inner vacuum vessel , B , is also fitted with a metal cap provided with a T-piece tube through which the stem of the quartz-glass crystallisation vessel , C , leads .
Through another tube in this metal cap is inserted a syphon , F , by which liquid hydrogen can be admitted .
The vertical part of the T-piece tube is , as far up as the branch tube in the centre of the cap , wider than the quartz-glass stem of the crystallisation vessel .
This branch tube is connected with a mercury barometer valve , Y , and also to the mechanical pump , so that the liquid hydrogen in the inner vacuum vessel can be exhausted .
The stem of the quartz-glass crystallisation vessel is connected to a T-piece , G- , of glass , fitted with three stopcocks , by means of a short piece of rubber pressure tubing .
The one branch of the T-piece G is sealed on to a three-way stopcock , a , and a large charcoal bulb , H. The other branch is sealed on to a U-tube , I , containing a few grammes of charcoal , and to this is connected a narrow glass vessel , K , of the wash-bottle type , containing asbestos wool .
K is , in turn , connected to a small mercury gasometer , L , containing pure hydrogen .
A T-piece , M , the branch tube of which is connected to a vacuum pump , is inserted between the vessel K and the gasometer L. The connecting rubber tubes of this T-piece can be closed by two screw-clamps , so that the gasometer can , if necessary , be detached from the apparatus during the course of the investigations in order to fill it with more hydrogen .
Two more charcoal bulbs , each connected with the interior of one of the vacuum vessels surrounding the crystallisation vessel , were employed in order to dry the glass surfaces before the liquid air and liquid hydrogen were admitted through the syphbns , D and F. Afterwards , however , it was discovered that the moisture from the glass walls would condense into the liquid air on the bottom of the vessel and could be frozen out on the glass walls of the lower part of the vessel if only a few drops of liquid air were admitted through the syphon to begin with .
As in these experiments with hydrogen and oxygen the cooling liquids were not allowed to cover the crystallisation vessel it was not necessary for them to be absolutely clear , and the two charcoal bulbs were therefore omitted in order to render the apparatus more simple .
Before the apparatus was cooled , the charcoal bulbs IT and I , as well as the asbestos vessel K , were thoroughly heated and exhausted through the threeway stopcock , a. This three-way stopcock was then turned so that the charcoal in H remained in communication only with the interior of the crystallisation vessel and the tubes , I and K , containing charcoal and asbestos .
1912 .
] Optical Investigation of Solidified Gases .
The charcoal bulb , H , was now immersed in liquid air and in this way the crystallisation vessel and the tubes connected with it were thoroughly exhausted .
After the charcoal bulb had been turned off , hydrogen was admitted from the gasometer to the crystallisation vessel , and this latter again exhausted by the charcoal exhaust .
The crystallisation vessel and the tubes connected with it were in this way washed out with hydrogen several times by alternately admitting from the gasometer and exhausting .
The tubes I and K , containing charcoal and asbestos , were then immersed in liquid air and the charcoal in I saturated with hydrogen from the gasometer .
Liquid air was then admitted to the outer vacuum vessel through the syphon D\#151 ; at first only a few drops , as described above , but later sufficient to cover the lower part of the inner vacuum vessel .
After the liquid air in the outer vacuum vessel had been kept under exhaust for some time liquid hydrogen was admitted to the inner vacuum vessel through the syphon F , and was only allowed to cover the lower part of the crystallisation vessel .
By exhaustion with the mechanical pump , the liquid hydrogen in B could easily be cooled down sufficiently for it to crystallise .
Hydrogen .
Pure hydrogen is admitted to the crystallisation vessel from the gasometer , and is freed from any possible trace of moisture , hydrocarbons , or other impurities , by passing it through the tubes containing asbestos wool , K , and cocoanut charcoal , I , immersed in liquid air .
The hydrogen is then caused to liquefy in the crystallisation vessel by cooling this in the vapour of the hydrogen contained in the inner vacuum vessel , and which is in a state of evaporation due to reduced pressure .
When a sufficient quantity of liquid hydrogen is condensed in the crystallisation vessel , the stopcock b of the T-piece G is closed , and the liquid hydrogen cooled down as much as possible by exhausting the surrounding solid hydrogen in the inner vacuum vessel B. The crystallisation of the hydrogen is then easily effected by placing the crystallisation vessel in communication with the charcoal bulb H. In such circumstances crystallisation takes place almost instantly and a fine-grained crystalline mass is formed .
The crystals rapidly melt again when the charcoal exhaust is disconnected .
If liquid hydrogen is now admitted in small quantities through the syphon , while the hydrogen in the inner vacuum vessel is kept solid by exhaustion , each splash of hydrogen is instantly solidified and causes , when it strikes the outer walls of the crystallisation vessel , part of the liquid hydrogen in this to crystallise .
Under such conditions crystal growth-structures are formed , but melt Dr. W. Wahl .
[ Sept. 19 , again almost instantly .
Crystallisation takes place from one or more nuclei and crystal needles grow , with extreme velocity , in all directions , forming a cluster of radiating needles very similar in appearance to the well known " tourmaline suns , " as found , for example , in Cornish granite .
Sometimes one or more of these needles grow much longer than the others and are more hair-like and occasionally bent .
These experiments show that the velocity of the crystallisation of hydrogen is extremely great , in spite of the fact that crystallisation takes place at such a low temperature , only about 20 ' above absolute zero .
Both the fine-grained crystal mass obtained by charcoal exhaust , and the needle-shaped parts of the growth-structures are absolutely isotropic .
As these needle-shaped parts of the growth-structures cannot form part of a hexagonal or tetragonal crystal growth-structure parallel to the basal plane of the crystal , we are justified in concluding that hydrogen crystallises in the regular system .
The needle-shaped branches of crystal growth-structures usually grow at right angles to a crystal face of the fully developed crystal , and we may therefore conclude from the formation of bundles of crystal needles , radiating from one centre in a great number of directions , that the hydrogen crystals , when fully developed , belong to one of the forms of the regular system rich in crystal faces , i.e. ; the trisoctahedron or the hexoctahedron .
Oxygen .
Pure oxygen was prepared by heating potassium permanganate which had previously been dried in a charcoal vacuum .
The gasometer containing the oxygen over mercury was connected directly to the T-piece G , fig. 1 , leading to the crystallisation vessel , the tubes I and K , filled with charcoal and asbestos , not being necessary in this case .
When the apparatus had been exhausted and washed out with oxygen , liquid air was admitted to the outer vacuum vessel and liquid hydrogen to the inner one .
This was done as previously described in the case of hydrogen .
The stopcock \amp ; , of the T-piece G , was then opened , and oxygen from the gasometer liquefied in the crystallisation vessel .
The liquid oxygen easily solidified when cooled in the vapour of the liquid hydrogen .
In order to again liquefy the crystallised oxygen it was necessary to wait until most of the liquid hydrogen had evaporated from the inner vacuum vessel , which , on account of the good heat isolation at the bottom of the inner vessel , takes some considerable time .
In consequence it was not possible to make as many observations as would otherwise have been possible with the quantity of liquid hydrogen available .
1912 .
] Optical Investigation of Solidified Gases .
65 The solidification of oxygen was found to be a somewhat comp li-cated phenomenon , but of much interest .
When the liquid is cooled it becomes viscous before crystallisation sets in .
The crystals which are formed in this apparently stiffened mass are not well developed , and grow very slowly .
If the cooling takes place rapidly these crystals cease to grow altogether , the liquid probably becoming too viscous to permit any further growth .
The product obtained is , in such circumstances , a stiffened mass of liquid oxygen , with oxygen crystals embedded in it .
In order to obtain a homogeneous crystallised product the cooling must take place very slowly , which is not easy when a very small piece of apparatus , as the crystallisation vessel in this case , is cooled by a spray of liquid hydrogen from the syphon .
Liquid oxygen , on cooling , thus behaves in a manner analogous to most silicates and borates , which , when rapidly cooled , give a glass with varying quantities of crystals embedded in it .
The crystals of oxygen are dark between crossed nicol prisms , similar to the surrounding stiffened liquid .
When the oxygen in the crystallisation vessel is cooled further by liquid hydrogen vapour , a transformation of the whole mass into a fine grained crystal mass takes place almost instantaneously .
These crystal grains are strongly double refracting .
Oxygen is thus polymorphous .
The crystal grains resulting from the transition into this second modification are , however , so small and of such irregular shape that it was not possible to determine to what crystal system they belong .
During the experiments carried out so far , the liquid oxygen was not cooled sufficiently quickly to produce a homogeneous stiffened mass without any crystals of form I being embedded in it , and it is uncertain whether such a homogeneous oxygen glass could be obtained at all by rapid cooling .
It is possible , however , that the oxygen glass , if once produced without containing any crystals of form I , would remain as a glass at still lower temperatures , and the crystal modification II not be formed at all in the absence of crystals I. Or , the supercooled oxygen might at a low temperature crystallise ( " devitrify " ) directly as form II , just as liquid sulphur , when supercooled in certain circumstances , may crystallise directly as rhombic sulphur .
It is probable , however , that when both crystals of form I and residual parts of liquid are present simultaneously , the transition at first takes plaice in the crystal phase , and that as soon as the crystals II are formed in the crystals I they act as germs , and a kind of devitrification of the remaining stiffened liquid into form II takes place simultaneously with the transition in the crystalline phase .
On account of the rapidity with which the whole VOL. lxxxviii.\#151 ; A. F Dr. W. Wahl .
[ Sept. 19 , process of formation of this double refracting mass of crystals takes place , it was not possible to observe directly how the devitrification of the noncrystalline parts into form II actually took place .
Under the conditions in which these experiments were conducted a rapid transition into the fine grained modification II always took place at low temperatures .
When , however , the temperature was lowered as much as possible by exhausting the solid hydrogen , which reached just up to the lower part of the crystallisation vessel , no further alteration of the product of this first transition could be observed .
The above refers to observations on oxygen at diminishing temperatures .
At increasing temperatures it is easier to investigate both the transition from one form into the other and also the properties of form I. This depends partly upon the fact that it is not so easy to lower the temperature of the crystallisation vessel gradually and evenly , by admitting liquid hydrogen through the syphon into the vacuum vessel B , as it is to increase the temperature very slowly by letting the surface of the liquid hydrogen sink gradually by evaporation , and partly because it is easier to study the properties of form I , when it is obtained by transition from form II , than when it is obtained by the crystallisation of the stiffened liquid .
In the apparatus shown in fig. 1 the isolation of the crystallisation vessel is extremely good , and the liquid hydrogen at the bottom of the vacuum vessel B only evaporates very slowly .
When evaporation has gone on for some time a very marked vertical temperature gradient is formed above the surface of the liquid hydrogen .
Consequently the temperature in the crystallisation vessel rises very slowly , and a certain temperature will first reign in the upper part and then gradually move downwards as the surface of the liquid hydrogen sinks in the vacuum vessel .
Any definite temperature , as for instance that of the transition point or that of the melting point , passes therefore from the upper part of the crystallisation vessel slowly downwards .
The transition and the melting will thus occur along each of two horizontal lines which move slowly downwards .
If , as in this case , the two temperatures are not far apart , it is possible to see the two border lines simultaneously in the crystallisation vessel .
The border line between the second and first crystalline modifications is easily visible to the naked eye as a sharp line below which the preparation looks white and nearly opaque on account of its finely granular structure .
The modification I is quite clear and translucent , so that it is not so easy to observe the border line between it and the liquid with the naked eye , although it is easily visible under the microscope .
In the parts of the crystallisation vessel above the crystals I , where a temperature reigns only slightly above 1912 .
] Optical Investigation of Solidified Gases .
67 that of the melting point , the liquid appeared stiff .
Higher up , however , in the stem of the vessel it was quite fluid , while the border line crystals I\#151 ; crystals II was still in the lower part of the vessel .
The crystal field I , lying between the two horizontal border lines , appears in most cases quite homogeneous and is dark between crossed nicols .
Near the border line crystals\#151 ; liquid , however , where the temperature approaches that of the melting point , it can be seen that it really consists of a great number of crystal grains , quite uniform in size and of hexagonal shape .
Only in two instances did the crystal field appear differently : It consisted of long flat prismatic crystals standing at right angles to the border lines and growing at the lower end on the expanse of the strongly double refracting grains of modification II .
These prisms had no even border line between each other but were otherwise well developed .
The extinction is parallel to the prism axis , and the double refraction low , of about the same magnitude as that of ordinary quartz in sections parallel to the axis .
From these observations at rising temperatures the crystal modification I must be considered hexagonal .
On crystallisation from the liquid the crystals always grow parallel to the basal plane , and appear dark between crossed nicols , just as ordinary hexagonal ice , for example , always crystallises with the basal plane parallel to the water surface .
Again , when the modification I is formed by transition from form II , it also , in most cases , grows with the basal plane parallel to the glass surfaces , and appears dark between crossed nicols .
In two instances , however , the growth described above occurred at right angles to the glass surfaces .
The width of the double vacuum vessels unfortunately does not permit of an investigation in convergent polarised light .
The form of the crystal grains , however , which , as mentioned , becomes visible near the border line crystals\#151 ; liquid by a kind of " etching " on melting , confirms the conclusions drawn from the observations in parallel polarised light , that the crystals I are hexagonal .
The exact temperature of the transition point crystals I to crystals II has yet to be determined , but , from the fact that the two horizontal border lines between crystals II and crystals I , and crystals I and liquid , observed during the experiments at rising temperatures , lie so close to each other , we may conclude that the transition point temperature is not far below the melting point temperature .
The melting point of oxygen has been given by Estreicher* as \#151 ; 227 ' .
Quite recently Sir James Dewar and Prof. Kammerlingh-Onnes have , independently of each other , determined the melting point temperaturef * T. Estreicher , ' Bull .
Intern , de l'Acad .
des Sciences de Cracovie , ' 1903 , p. 836 .
t Dewar , 'Boy .
Soc. Proc.,5 1911 , A , vol. 85 , p. 597 .
Dr. W. Wahl .
[ Sept. 19 , and found a much higher temperature : \#151 ; 219 ' and \#151 ; 218*4 ' .
It appears not improbable that the temperature determined by Estreicher has been that of the transition point crystals I to crystals II and not at all that of the melting point .
Estreicher observed a halt in the rising of the helium thermometer and noticed also that the upper part of the oxygen in his vessel at the same time appeared clear and " molten .
" In a vessel like the one employed by Estreicher , the crystals II must have appeared quite white and opaque like a snowy mass , and , as the crystals I will form a comparatively translucent mass above this , the transition point might easily have been taken for the melting point , and the true melting point overlooked .
This is the more probable as Estreicher employed a single vacuum vessel which was closed only by a wad of wool , and the inner vessel containing the oxygen therefore could not have been very easy to observe .
Another indication that the transition point temperature is close to the melting point temperature is supplied by the observation of Sir James Dewar , * that\#151 ; " Under the continued exhaust of the charcoal the smooth surfacef of the oxygen became gradually broken up by numerous cracks penetrating but slowly down into the mass , and giving it the appearance of having a white , crystalline surface.^ This disappeared very rapidly on turning off the charcoal exhaust , and the surface became quite smooth , although , with the good isolation , no appreciable melting could be detected for 15 minutes or more .
" These observations quoted from the paper of Sir James Dewar seem to indicate that the transition point temperature crystals I\#151 ; crystals II can be reached by continued charcoal exhaustion on the solid oxygen , whereby the surface of the oxygen mass thus transformed into the crystalline form II becomes cracked and of a white appearance .
In four different series of experiments the pressure , when the charcoal vacuum was turned off , is given by Sir James Dewar as 0*467 , 0*43 , 0*4280 , and 0*465 mm. , rising rapidly and then remaining constant at about 1*11 to 1*12 mm. for some thirty minutes during melting .
The exhaustion had in all cases been carried to about 0*3 mm. , and the constancy of the value obtained immediately after the charcoal vacuum had been disconnected indicates that this value 0*46 mm. is the triple-point-pressure crystals I\#151 ; crystals II\#151 ; vapour .
The pressure then rises rapidly to 1*12 mm. , which must be regarded as the triple-point-pressure crystals I\#151 ; liquid\#151 ; vapour .
Most of the physical constants of solid oxygen are determined at the boiling point of hydrogen , and they must therefore be regarded as the constants of the second crystalline modification of oxygen .
The observations on the crystallisation and melting of oxygen described above indicate that * Dewar , loc. cit. , p. 594 .
t Crystals !
( ' ?
) .
J Crystals II( ?
) 1912 .
] Optical Investigation : of Solidified Gases .
6 9 in order to determine any constants of modification I , it would be necessary preliminarily to cool the oxygen below the transition point temperature , and then investigate the product obtained by transition from form II , as a mixture of super-cooled , stiffened liquid containing varying quantities of crystals\#151 ; depending on the conditions of cooling\#151 ; may be arrived at by crystallising the oxygen directly from the liquid state .
The cracking up of the mass during transition to form II , and the opaqueness of the product , indicate a not inconsiderable change of volume , the modification II being the denser one .
The same phenomena , however , will render it difficult to obtain correct values of the density of this modification of solid oxygen when contained in a closed and rigid vessel .
The latent heat of transition of the one form into the other is probably considerable , as Estreicher states that he observed a distinct halt in the rise of his helium thermometer , at what is here considered to be the transition point .
The existence of two crystalline modifications of oxygen is interesting with regard to the position of oxygen in the periodic classification of the elements , and the analogy existing between the compounds of oxygen and sulphur .
By the discovery of similar polymorphous relations , this analogy is now extended to the elements themselves .
The investigations have been executed in the Davy-Faraday Research Laboratory of the Royal Institution .
I am indebted to Prof. Sir James Dewar for kind advice regarding these determinations at liquid hydrogen temperatures , and for placing at my disposal the vacuum vessels , syphons , and the necessary quantities of liquid air and of liquid hydrogen .
I also wish to thank Mr. W. Green , B.Sc. , of the Davy-Faraday Laboratory , for valuable help during the experiments .

