1873 .
] Heating of a Disk by rapid Rotation in vacuo .
IV .
te On the Heating of a Disk by rapid Rotation in By Balfour Stewart , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in Owens College , Manchester , and P. G. Tait , M.A. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh .
Received April 10 , 1873 .
26 .
In two previous communications ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. June 15 , 1865 , and No. 88 , 1866 ) to this Society , we gave an account of some experiments which we had made upon the heating of a disk through rotation in vacuo .
In these experiments the increase of radiation of the heated disk was observed by means of a delicate thermopile and galvanometer .
Three aluminium disks of various thicknesses and one ebonite disk were used ; and the results derived from the experiments were as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The heating effect observed appeared to be independent of the density , and of the chemical constitution , of the residual air and vapour surrounding the disks .
( 2 ) The quantity of heat developed under similar circumstances of rotation in three aluminium disks *05 , '0375 , *025 of an inch in thickness respectively appeared to be the same , inasmuch as the relative thermometric effect for these disks varied inversely as their thickness .
( 3 ) Besides the heating effect alluded to in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , there was found to be , when the vacuum had been recently made , a strictly temporary effect , sometimes in the direction of heat , sometimes in that of cold , owing probably to the condensation or evaporation of small quantities of aqueous vapour ; but this effect was only noticeable during rotation , disappearing the moment the motion was stopped .
27 .
The experiments described in these communications were resumed in 1870 .
In the interval an addition had been made to the apparatus , in virtue of which an ordinary carbonic-acid vacuum might be subjected to the influence of a vessel containing potash allowed to open in it , and thus to absorb as much as possible of the remaining gas .
On May 4 a carbonic-acid vacuum was obtained by this means ( pressure 0'05 in .
) .
A disk made of cartridge-paper , when made to rotate in this vacuum , gave a very perceptible result .
Carbonic acid was then allowed to enter the vacuum until the pressure became O'65 in .
The consequence of this increased pressure was in this instance an increase in the effect , which was probably of a permanent nature , inasmuch as it remained after three days .
Unfortunately the exact increase was not noted ; but it is believed that the heat-indication became about three times as great in consequence of the additional pressure .
28 .
On May 11 another carbonic-acid vacuum was made ( pressure O'12 in .
) , and at the suggestion of Professor Maxwell a sulphuric-acid gauge was placed in the receiver .
A rotation was then made ; and the result of the rotation was a hardly perceptible rise in the sulphuric-acid 2 o 2 310 Messrs. Stewart and Tait on Heating of a ?
[ May 15 , gauge .
We may therefore imagine that the residual air was not greatly heated .
29 .
On May 16 another carbonic-acid vacuum was obtained ( pressure 0*08 in .
) , and with an ebonite disk of about inch thickness , the heat-indication was 16 .
Carbonic acid was introduced until the pressure was 1*6 in .
; but the indication was only 18 .
This result is in conformity with our previous experiments , in which an increase of pressure of the residual air produced little or no effect .
30 .
The ebonite disk was likewise tried in a carbonic-acid vacuum , pressure 0*04 in .
; and also in one , pressure 0-02 in .
, which was the lowest we could obtain .
The result of these experiments appeared to show that in all probability the cartridge-paper disk radiated more than twice as much as the thin ebonite disk .
The experiments were put a stop to by a collapse of the glass receiver during rotation , fortunately without injuring any one present .
31 .
In June 1871 the experiments were resumed .
In the mean time Mr. Beckley had fitted the apparatus with an arrangement working through a barometer-tube , by means of which , instead of trusting to radiation , the disk itself might , after rotation , be tapped by means of the pile , which could be brought up to it and then withdrawn .
By this means a much larger effect might be obtained ; and it became possible , by varying the adjustment , to find according to what law the heat effect varies with the distance from the centre .
32 .
These experiments were conducted in the following manner:\#151 ; .
The disk was first of all tapped before rotation several times ; at each tapping the momentary swing of the needle was recorded , and the mean of the readings was regarded as indicating the state of the disk with respect to heat .
The disk was next tapped after rotation , and the difference between the readings before and after was taken as indicating the change in the state of the disk produced by rotation .
In the later experiments the disk before rotation was kept in slight motion in order to equalize any tendency to unequal heating of its various parts ; but this was not done in the experiments of June 1871 .
In these experiments ( June 1871 ) the disk was of brown paper , and the results obtained were as follows : For a carbonic-acid vacuum ( pressure 0*065 in .
) a swing of 307 divisions was recorded , , while for a hydrogen vacuum ( pressure 0*150 in .
) a swing of 281 divisions was recorded .
Each result was the mean of three rotations .
33 .
The next experiments were made in January 1872 .
The galvanometer was one of Thomson 's , but more adapted for battery currents , and hence not in a very delicate state for these experiments ; the time of vibration of the needle was 3 seconds .
The disk used was of ebonite ( thickness about fa in .
) .
The ebonite of this disk was completely black , and in this respect , as well as in being thinner , it differed from the ebonite disk first used in the radiation-experiments ( art .
17 ) .
In the pre- 1873 .
] Disk by rapid Rotation in vacuo .
sent experiments the centre of the pile was made to tap the disk at a distance of 1*5 in .
from the rim .
The amount and velocity of rotation were represented by 30 turns of the handle , or 3750 turns of the disk , in about 40 seconds .
The following results were obtained , a result representing on an average somewhat more than four rotations:\#151 ; Pressure of Heat-indication for residual gas , , ----------------------*---------------------N in inches .
Dry hydrogen .
Dry air .
Dry carbonic acid .
( A ) ... ... ... .
11-5 35-0 33-0 ( B ) ^ ... ... . .
7-5 15-0 15-0 It would thus appear that the results derived by tapping are very different from the radiation-results , inasmuch as in the former the effect of the pressure and quality of the residual air is very apparent , w hile in the radiation-results it is hardly perceptible .
A probable explanation of this will be given afterwards ( art .
46 ) ; but in the mean time , in view of these results , it will be expedient to discuss them quite independently and by themselves , with the view of ascertaining whether they can best be explained by a gas-effect alone , or whether they likewise indicate a residual effect independent of gas .
34 .
With this object let us take ( A ) + ( B ) 2 as representing the whole effect at a pressure of ^ in .
, due to whatever cause or causes .
We thus obtain Dry hydrogen .
Dry air .
Dry carbonic acid .
Whole effect at ^. .
9-5 25-0 24-0 Again , let us suppose that ( A)\#151 ; ( B ) denotes the gcis-effect for in .
, and we obtain Dry hydrogen .
Dry air .
Dry carbonic acid .
Gas-effect at -fa ... .4*0 20*0 18-0 Finally , let us regard as unknown residual effect the difference between the whole effect and the gas-effect , and we obtain Dry hydrogen .
Dry air .
Dry carbonic acid .
Residual effect ... .
5*5 5*0 6*0 35 .
Similar experiments with the same galvanometer were made with a disk of cartridge-paper , of which the pores were filled with solid paraffin .
And here we may mention that in all experiments with paper disks a small wooden attachment was placed at some little distance behind the disk and at the height of the pile , and against this the disk was pressed during tapping\#151 ; care being taken that the disk did not touch it during motion , but only when it was pressed against it by bringing up the pile .
With this paper disk the amount and speed of motion were represented by 30 turns of the handle , or 3750 turns of the disk , in 30 seconds .
The 312 Messrs. Stewart and Tait on Heating of a [ May 15 , results were as follows , a result representing on an average somewhat less than four rotations:\#151 ; Heat-indication for Pressure of residual gas , in inches .
Dry hydrogen .
Dry air .
Dry carbonic acid .
( A- ) 27*0 55*0 55*0 ( B ) 4$ 23*0 35*0 32*0 Treating these results in the same manner as those of the ebonite disk , we obtain:\#151 ; Dry hydrogen .
Dry air .
Dry carbonic acid .
Whole effect ( f$). .
25*0 45*0 43*5 Gas-effect ( -^y ) 4*0 20*0 23*0 Residual effect . . . .
21*0 25*0 20*5 36 .
Now , if we suppose that there is only one effect due to gas , it follows:\#151 ; ( a ) That the proportion between the effects due to the various gases experimented on ( and all of the same pressure ) is nevertheless different for the two disks .
( / 3 ) That the proportion ( for the same disk ) between the effects due to the various gases experimented on is different according to the pressure .
If , however , we suppose that there are two effects , one of which is independent of the residual gas , we find:\#151 ; ( a ) That , as regards the gas-effect , the proportion between that due to the various gases is nearly the same for both disks .
Thus in the ebonite disk we have 4 , 20 , 18 , while in the paper disk wre have 4 , 20 , 23 as representing the gas-effect for the various gases .
( / 3 ) That the residual effect in either disk is nearly the same for the various gases .
Thus in the ebonite disk we have 5*5 , 5*0 , 6*0 , while in the paper disk wo have 2T0 , 25*0,20*5 as representing the residual effect for the various gases .
The results are thus much more simple on the hypothesis of two effects , one of these being independent of the residual gas , than on the hypothesis of only one effect .
37 .
It was next endeavoured to ascertain whether these two effects were differently influenced by a blind .
A linen blind was first used before the thin ebonite disk , which it cloaked during rotation , falling down afterwards .
During rotation the blind did not appear to touch the disk .
A delicate galvanomei was use for this experiment ; and the time of vibration of the needle w^as 2 seconds .
The rotation consisted of 30 turns of the handle in 40 seconds , as be ore .
The following result was obtained ( each number representing the mean of two observations)Without blind .
with blind .
of dry hydrogen ... ... ... 165 1^7 rfi hydrogen+air ... ... ... ... .
477 248 1873.1 Disk by rapid Rotation in vacuo .
313 Thus the proportion between the two effects is greatly altered by the blind ; for while the hydrogen effect is not much diminished , the other is reduced to little more than one half .
38 .
A chamois-leather blind was next used , which lay close to the disk during rotation .
For all these experiments the time of vibration of the galvanometer-needle was 20 to 30 seconds , while the speed was the same as before .
Also the disk was tapped immediately after rotation , and then again at the interval of one minute ; and in order to obtain as many individual results as possible , the mean of these two tappings has been taken in the following comparison :\#151 ; Without blind .
With blind .
\#171 ; \#187 ; , , , co f mean of 76 indivi- ) co f mean of 22 indivi0 ry y rogen .
j dual observations .
J \ dual observations .
o , j .
a .
01 *f mean of 68 indivi-1 mean of 16 indiviiPor y rogen+^5 air 7 j \lt ; juaj observations .
J \ dual observations .
Here also we find that the proportion between the two effects is greatly altered by the blind ; so that while the hydrogen-effect is not much stopped , the other is diminished very considerably .
39 .
A set of experiments of 8 observations , each similar to those of arts .
33 , 34 , 35 , were made with the blind on for the two gases , dry hydrogen and dry air .
From these we obtain the following :\#151 ; Pressure of Heat-indication for residual gas , A " 11 N in inches .
Dry hydrogen .
Dry air .
Blind on -f 83 178 52 82 From which we deduce:\#151 ; Residual effect , blind on ... .
36*5 34 Again , from certain experiments with the blind off ( each result being the mean of 6 observations ) , we obtain the following effect ; \#151 ; For dry hydrogen. . . .
" { ( jj^ ) 60 and hence we find residual effect =31 ; From all these results , allowing for errors of experiment , we may suppose that the residual effect is not much altered by a chamois-leather blind .
We ought to mention that the numbers of this article , similarly to those of art .
38 , represent the mean of two tappings , the one taken immediatly after rotation , and the other after the interval of one minute .
40 .
It was suggested to us by Prof. Helmholtz that it would be desirable to ascertain whether any difference was produced in the results by loading the disk on one side ; for if these results were due to vibration , it might be supposed that they would be affected by this means .
314 Messrs. Stewart and Tait on the Heating of a [ May 15 It will be seen by art .
39 that the residual effect obtained from a disk covered with chamois leather is approximately the same as that from an uncovered disk ; this would appear to us to be against the vibration hypothesis .
In the following experiment the disk was covered with a chamois-leather blind with a segment cut out as underneath-\#151 ; A mean of two sets of experiments ( consisting of 16 separate observations , and embracing results immediately after rotation , as well as results one minute after ) gave as the result of tapping in A with fa dry hydrogen 47 , while a mean of 24 similar observations with the same atmosphere gave as the result of tapping an uncovered disk 53 .
Allowing for errors of experiment , we may conclude that this arrangement does not much influence the results .
41 .
The disk was next treated in the following manner:\#151 ; It'was covered with a chamois leather blind tied into holes drilled in the disk , and having the above shape .
The mean of 3 sets of experiments similar to those in art .
40 , and consisting of 18 separate observations , gave as follows for an atmosphere of dry hydrogen , tapping in A 54 , tapping in B 56 , which two results are approximately equal to one another , the mean being 55 .
The mean of 3 sets of experiments , consisting of 24 separate observations for an atmosphere of fa hydrogen , but with an uncovered disk , gave 53 as the heat-result .
All these experiments apparently combine to prove that the result is not due to vibration .
42 .
When the atmosphere was hyd .
-{- fa air , we also found A and B approximately the same , A giving 181 while B gave 182 ; we have therefore not hesitated to combine together the results of tapping in this atmosphere , whether at A , or at B , or with an uncovered disk , in the comparison given in art .
38 .
1873 .
] Disk by rapid Dotation in vacuo .
43 .
Our next experiments were made with the view of testing whether or not the two effects , the residual and the gas-effect , were resident in the same particles of the disk ; and for this purpose the experiments made immediately after rotation were compared with those made one minute afterwards .
The experiments available for this purpose are so numerous that they can bear splitting into two portions , in each of which the same result is seen .
Thus we have for an atmosphere of dry hydrogen , and as the mean of 30 individual comparisons , Effect at first : Effect one minute after : : 1*30 : 1 ; also , as the mean of 22 individual comparisons , we obtain the proportion of 1-19 : 1 , while as the mean of the whole we obtain 1*25 : 1 .
Treating in a similar manner the observations made with an atmosphere of fa hyd .
fa air , we obtain As the mean of 25 comparisons ... ... ... . .
1-47 ; 1 , As the mean of 21 comparisons ... ... ... ... 1-41 ; 1 , while as the mean of the whole we obtain 1-44 : 1 .
We therefore conclude that the residual effect is less diminished during the interval of one minute than the gas-effect .
44 .
We next made experiments with two aluminium disks *05 and *025 of an inch in thickness respectively .
These disks were covered on both sides with a coating of lampblack applied by negative photographic varnish .
In both disks we found that with a vacuum of fa hyd .
the effect one minute after rotation was greater than the effect immediately after rotation .
Thus we have:\#151 ; For thick disk ( mean of 4 observations ) 1 Effect at first : Effect one minute after : : *85 : 1 ; For thin disk ( mean of 2 experiments , embracing 7 observations ) do .
do .
: : *8T6 ; 1 .
But in cases where the gas-effect was considerable , this peculiarity disappeared .
Thus we have for an atmosphere of fa hyd .
+ fa air:\#151 ; Fof2^Wvati^s)n } Effect at first : Effect one minute after : : 1*05 : 1 .
For thin disk ( mean 1 of 2 observations ) J do .
: : 1*45 : 1 .
Also , for an air-vacuum of ^j , we have of 3hobservaW)n } Effect at first : Effect one minute after .* : 1*49 : 1 .
Messrs. Stewart and Tait on the Heating of a [ May 15 , In all the experiments with aluminium disks the needle of the galvanometer vibrated 20 times in 20 seconds , and the rotation consisted of 30 turns of the handle in 40 seconds .
Without pretending to explain all these experiments* , it must , we think , be concluded from them that there are two effects which are differently distributed over the particles of the disk .
45 .
The relation between the effect for ^ hyd .
and that for hyd.-f JL air f01 .
the thin aluminium disk ( galv .
20 in 20 seconds ) is given as follows :\#151 ; . .
Effect for hyd .
( mean 1 .
f Effect for hyd .
+ ft)- air 1. . .
228 of 22 observations ) J ' \ ( mean of 10 observations ) J In the preceding experiments the centre of the pile was at a distance ( along the radius ) of 1*5 in .
from the rim of the disk .
In the following experiment it was adjusted so as to be at a radial distance of 2 9 in .
from the rim of the same disk .
With this alteration and with the thin aluminium disk we obtained ... ... ... .
Effect for yV hyd .
( mean i ; f Effect for hyd .
+ f0- air V . .
37.175 .
of 7 observations ) J * \ ( mean of 9 observations ) j We thus see that the effect for hyd .
( which may be supposed to represent the residual effect ) and that for fjj hyd .
+ 7iy air ( which may be supposed to represent the gas-effect ) are both diminished in very nearly the same proportion , namely 100 : 77 , by the above transference of the pile to a position nearer the centre of the disk .
It would thus appear that the difference in distribution among the particles of the two effects brought to light in art .
44 cannot be explained by a difference from centre to rim , but would rather seem to be due to a difference in depth .
If this appear to be improbable , it must be remembered that these experiments were not made on a naked metallic disk .
These experiments would therefore appear to show that in an aluminium disk covered with varnish , as well as in a disk of ebonite , we may imagine the residua effect to be more deeply seated than the gas-effect .
46 .
We venture on the following as what appears to us to be the mos probable explanation of the whole body of experiments , including t ose .with radiation .
, ( 1 ) There is a temporary heat or cold effect ( art .
20 ) which may supposed to arise in particles very slightly attached to the disk ; this is radiated off chiefly during rotation , and probably does not greatly a ec the disk afterwards . . . .
.1 ( 2 ) There is a surface gas-effect , which in an aluminium anc e#^e an ebonite disk is conducted into the interior as it arises , so a 1 * May not this peculiarity of the aluminium disk in the hydrogen vac to some hygrometric surface-effect resident in the varnish .
n one expei 1 only one , the peculiarity was absent .
1873 .
] Disk by rapid Rotation in vacuo .
not greatly radiate during rotation of the disk ( art .
26 ) .
In a paper disk , however , which is formed of a badly conducting material loosely put together , part of the effect does escape as radiation during rotation ( art .
27 ) .
( 3 ) There is a residual effect , which is more deeply seated than the gas-effect .
And inasmuch as radiation takes place from a perceptible depth , this effect is much more influential than the gas-effect in increasing radiation after rotation .
In the case of a paper disk , this deeply seated effect will be less diminished by radiation during rotation than the gas-effect , and therefore after rotation in such a disk we might expect the gas-effect to be peculiarly small ( art .
35 ) .
47 .
In the course of these experiments we have endeavoured to prove that this residual effect is not caused by vibration .
The radiation-experiments with aluminium disks of three different thicknesses went , on the other hand , to show that it was of the nature of a surface-effect .
This is confirmed by the results derived from tapping ; for , in the first place , the experiments of art .
45 show that the two effects ( the residual and the gas-effect ) are probably distributed in the same proportion , going from the centre to the circumference of the disk .
Again , taking the two disks of thickness *05 and #025 of an inch , we obtain the following re- sults :\#151 ; Effect for hyd .
Effect for ^ hyd.+^y air .
Thin disk ... ... . .
48 ( 22 observations ) .
228 ( 10 observations ) .
Thick disk ... ... .
29 ( 20 observations ) .
108 ( 10 observations ) .
Now , allowing for errors of experiment , we see that the residual , as well as the gas-effect , is reduced to about one half for the thick disk .
Again , an experiment of a similar nature gave the effect for hyd .
in an ebonite disk of ^ in .
in thickness =33 , against a result =55 for the thin ebonite disk .
Unfortunately it was omitted to make a comparison with these two disks for the gas-effect ; nevertheless these results are all in favour of the residual effect being a surface-effect .
48 .
It might be well to make one remark regarding these experiments .
They are not like the radiation-experiments , which required an extremely delicate instrument in order to give a sensible effect .
But , on the other hand , the effect obtained by tapping being that due to the mere surface of the disk , is liable to be altered by any thing which affects the surface of the disk .
" W\#169 ; have come to the conclusion that in such experiments it is unadvisable to use a porous hygrometric surface , such as that of paper , not having its pores filled with paraffin or some other similar substance .
It is likewise desirable that all parts of the apparatus should be as nearly as possible of the same temperature ; indeed we suspect that some experiments made during some very peculiar summer weather were influenced by a want of temperature-equilibrium between the various parts of the apparatus , the result appearing to be that the gas-effect for the ebonite disk was abnormally large .
Mr. W. Shanks on the Extension of [ May 151 49 .
Our conclusion from the evidence before us is , that the , residual effect is a surface-effect more deeply seated than the gas-effect , but distributed outwards from the centre to the circumference , very much in the same manner as the gas-effect .
The residual effect likewise appears able to penetrate a chamois-leather blind without any perceptible diminution .
We regard these conclusions as preliminary , and shall endeavour in our future experiments to procure additional evidence of these properties of the residual effect , as well as to obtain new facts regarding it .
In the mean time , as the subject is one of interest , and has been already too long delayed , we have not hesitated to bring these results before the notice of the Royal Society .
In concluding we would desire to express our thanks to Mr. F. Kingdon for his assistance to us in many of these experiments , V. cc On the Extension of the Numerical Value of ir .
" By William Shanks , Houghton-le-Spring , Durham .
Communicated by Prof. G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received April 16 , 1873 .
In the ' Messenger of Mathematics ' for Dec. 1872 , J. W. L. Glaisher , Esq. , has given some very interesting particulars regarding the calculation of it , in the justness of which the author generally concurs .
He , however , differs from him as to the comparative merits of Van Ceulen , who , in the early part of the seventeenth century , calculated ir to 36 decimals .
Hutton 's formula also , given in the ' Messenger , ' appears , notwithstanding Hutton 's own opinion , to be not so well adapted for extensive computation as Machin 's , which the author has used on the present as well as former occasions , regarding it as the best yet found .
The values of tan-11 and of tan-1 are each given below to 709 , and the value of tt to 707 decimals .
It will be observed that a few figures in the values of tan-1 \#163 ; and of published in 1853 , were erroneous .
The author detected the error quite recently , and has corrected it .
The values of each term of the two series in ^=4 tan-1 ^ \#151 ; tan-1 yg-g- , are far too bulky to be given in extenso : fortunately , but few would care to see them !
It may here be stated that Prof. Richter , of Elbing , found 7r to 500 decimals in the year 1853\#151 ; all of which agree with the author 's , published early in the same year .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 29 .

