[ 487 ] XVIII .
Researches on the Structure , Organization , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia.\#151 ; V. On Associated Bones of a Small Anomodont Reptile , Keirognathus cordylus ( Seeley ) , showing the Relative Dimensions of the Anterior Parts of the Skeleton , and Structure of the Fore-limb and Shoulder Girdle .
By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. , Professor of Geography in King 's College , London .
Received April *5 , \#151 ; Read April 26 , 1888 .
[ Plates 75 , 76 .
] The Dicynodont remains hitherto described are nearly all isolated portions of different skeletons , which give no definite idea of the form of body or proportions of the limbs of the animals comprised in the group .
The skulls described have been separated from the vertebrae ; there has been an absence of matrix to connect either with the limb bones or the shoulder girdle ; and , though the pelvis has been found associated with the sacrum , there is no means of judging of its relative size as compared with the head or limbs .
Although the Anomodontia are among the most interesting of Reptiles in osteological structure , knowledge of the individual animals is indefinite , and no restoration of the skeleton has been possible .
There is one specimen ( Plate 75 ) , however , in the British Museum which contributes materially towards the desired knowledge .
It is a small slab of grey-green calcareous shale , numbered 49,413 , collected by Mr. Thomas Bain at Klipfontein , Fraserberg , and placed in the National Collection in May , 1878 .
It is in the worst possible preservation , owing to fracture through the remains , and absence of the counterpart slab , but exhibits the skull , a few vertebrae , ribs , the shoulder girdle , and bones of the fore-limb of a small species of a genus closely allied to Dicynodon .
The limbs prove to have been unexpectedly short , and , notwithstanding the Mammalian form of pelvis , in other specimens referred to the genus Dicynodon , justify the inference that the proportions of the body were rather those of a short-tailed Salamander or Seal than of a Dinosaur or long-limbed Mammal .
The Head .
The skull is exposed in side view with the lower jaw in contact .
^ The extreme antero-posterior length of the head is 10 centims. , but this extent is due to the posterior lateral expansion of the squamosal bones at the back of the head , for the r 8.12.88 measurement from the occipital condyle to the extremity of the snout is 8*5 centims. The vertical measurement from the condyle of the quadrate bone to the summit of the skull is 6 centims. , and it is 7 centims. from the infra-articular angle of the lower jaw .
The lateral contour of the skull closely approaches that of feliceps ; but that species has the squamosal bone longer , the lower jaw deeper , the maxillary tooth larger , and the back of the head apparently less elevated .
Dicynodon dubius has the tooth as small as in this specimen , but its root enlarges in the skull , in a way to which this species shows no approximation .
Only in Dicynodon recurvidens is so small a tooth found as appears to characterize this fossil ; but the skull of that species has little in common with these remains .
Hence I conclude that the head upon the slab belongs to an undescribed species , with the facial contour of D. feliceps ; a short vertical quadrate region , as in D. dubius ; and small teeth , like those of D. videns , which , however , were directed downward and forward instead of downward and backward .
The scapula shows it to be related to Kistecephalus ; but the humerus distinguishes it from other genera .
From the hack of the head the contour line steadily descends as it extends forward , till over the anterior border of the narine the descent to the alveolar margin becomes rapid .
The shape and size of the narine are badly indicated , but its dimensions as preserved are about 17 millims. long by 13 millims. high ; hence , the form of the aperture was probably transversely ovate , and its size smaller than the present fractured limits of its margin .
It approached near to the roof of the snout , and its superior margin was about 23 millims. above the margin of the jaw , at the point where the tooth crosses it .
The orbit appears to have been relatively small , less than 1 '5 centim. in diameter .
It is separated from the narine by a bar which is less wide than the narine , and is undefined posteriorly , since the post-orbital bar is broken away , leaving a long transversely ovate vacuity , which extends over the temporal region , and measures about 4*5 centims. long by 2*7 centims. deep .
The alveolar margin of the jaw forms a sigmoid curve , being concave from the quadrate bone forward , then convex , with the convexity terminating behind the extremity of the jaw .
The small tooth , of which only a fragment is preserved situ , is in advance of the middle of the convexity at 2'5 centims. behind the imperfect anterior extremity of the jaw .
By the side of the anterior extremity of the lower jaw is what I take to be an impression of a tooth , which is 3 millims. wide and 17 millims. long .
The tooth itself may have been longer and wider .
These remains may be parts of the same tooth , with a crown fully 2 centims. long ; they give no evidence of expansion of the root to a wide pulp cavity , as in Dicynodon .
The vertical depth of the head between the orbit and narme is about 4 centims. m the anterior convex part of the alveolar border ; and the depth is about the same m the middle of the posterior concave part of the border .
This curved outline of the border of the jaw probably results from the breaking away of the maxillary bone , or the pterygoid bone is exposed posteriorly , and is seen to extend downward and unite ORGANIZATION , AND CLASSIFICATION OR THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
489 with the quadrate .
The quadrate bone is vertical , and the depth of the skull at the quadrate articulation is 6 centims. This bone is short , as in the true Dicynodons , but not so short as in the Oudenodons .
A canal in the sphenoidal region , such as the cochlea might be , is shown in section to be four-sided , with the angles prolonged so as to make its sides concave , and situate far above the upper extremity of the quadrate bone .
The lateral expansion and divergence of the squamosal bones outward and backward forms a concavity at the back of the head .
The anterior end of the snout appears to have been rounded and steeply inclined , with an inflation at the anterior corner of the narine ; so that the lateral contour of the head approximates to that of the common Turtle .
The lower jaw is 7*5 centims. long .
It is short and moderately deep , and terminates anteriorly in a sharp beak , below which the bone retreats in the oblique manner common to Chelonians .
The superior and inferior borders are sub-parallel for three-fifths of their length , gently convex above and concave below , with a depth of 1*9 centim. , and then its hinder extremity bends downward to the articulation ; but the superior border descends more rapidly than the inferior border , so that the vertical measurement narrows posteriorly , and at the articulation the vertical measurement is only 7 millims. The articular bone extends obliquely downward and backward , but the extension of the jaw behind this bone is slight .
The preservation of the remains does not warrant a detailed description of the head , and those features which are of interest in it will be better elucidated in remains of other Anomodonts .
The Shoulder Girdle .
The scapular arch of this Dicynodont proves to be made up of many elements .
Sir Richard Owen found the scapula and clavicle in the allied genus Kistecephalus ; * and in another specimen , which was classed as " Dicynodont , " + the scapula is shown to unite with the coracoid and pre-coracoid .
The present specimen adds to these elements a very large inter-clavicle and a sternum ; and shows the relations of the bones to each other .
The preservation of the bones , however , leaves much to be desired , and I offer the following description and restoration with diffidence , which the imperfect condition of the bones may justify , but with some confirmatory evidence from other remains in the British Museum .
The Scapula .
The scapula is formed on the plan of the scapula of Kisteeephalus ( British Museum , No. 17,071 ) , which it closely resembles in form .
It has an elongated blade , a distinct acromion , and a transverse articulation , not much expanded , for the head of the * \#171 ; Catalogue of the'Fossil Reptilia of South Africa , ' Plate 69 , fig. 8 , p. 63 .
t Loc .
cit. , Plate 69 , figs. 5 , 6 , p. 55 .
humerus .
It is badly preserved , and at the proximal end is only indicated by an impression from which the bone is lost , while its free end is imperfect .
Its length , as preserved , is 4*5 centims. It is thin throughout the length , which is somewhat curved , is 7 millims. wide towards the distal end , and contracts apparently to about half this width in the middle of the shaft .
The anterior border is the more concave , because the bone widens proximally towards the acromion process , which is short , blunt , and directed proximally , as in Kistecephalus .
It widens the bone to 7 millims. Below the acromion the bone is necessarily constricted , or rather notched out , on the anterior side , so that the transverse measurement is 4 millims. And then the proximal end widens to 8 millims. at the articulation , and the bone increases in thickness so as to form a flattened articular surface with a sharp margin .
The elongated bladelike extension of the bone gives it almost an Avian character ; but the acromion process makes it more like the scapula of an Iguanodont .
There are no Lizards in which the scapula is similarly elongated and expanded .
The Chameleon makes , perhaps , the nearest approximation in relative length , but has not the same distal expansion , nor has it an acromion process .
The scapula of is compressed , but it is short , and is differently connected with the coracoid , as though it were connate with the pre-coracoid .
It has a slight tubercle on the anterior margin representing the acromion .
In Ornithischia the scapula is relatively longer than in Hatteria , but has not the expanded form of the free end seen in the fossil , though the acromion may be well marked .
* The differences from Ornithosaurs are of a similar nature .
The scapula in Ornithorhynchus is wider , and relatively less elongated , but resembles the fossil in the articular end , in the supra-articular emargination , and in the extent and direction of the acromion process , which characters may be regarded as Mammalian .
The Coracoid and Pre-coracoid .
Both coracoid and pre-coracoid are developed as moderately large elements in the shoulder girdle , but are represented in the slab by faint impressions , with scarcely a trace of bony tissue .
The pre-coracoid appears to have been excluded from the humeral articulation , and to have extended between the scapula and the inter-clavicle* The impression indicates that it may have extended as far forward as the acromial process of the scapula .
Its internal border was convex , corresponding with the concavity of the anterior lateral part of the inter-clavicle .
Its anterior border it^ badly defined externally towards the scapula .
The extreme transverse width over this pre-coracoid area , below the acromion , is about 1*8 centim. ; its antero-posterior extent is about 1*2 centim. There is a small oblong ossification on its anterior border , which is more likely to be part of the expanded plate of the pre-coracoid than part o the clavicle , if the condition of the clavicle in this specimen may be inferred from that * Scapula of Cratceomus , " Reptile Fauna of the Gosau Formation , " ' Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , vol. 3/ , 1881 , p. 656 .
ORGANIZATION , AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
in Kistecephalus , * in which the scapula is similar .
A narrow space , about 2 millims. wide , separates the pre-coracoid from the inter-clavicle , and may indicate an unossified band of the pre-coracoid cartilage , but is a defined separation between these sternal elements .
The coracoid has its chief extent in the antero-posterior direction .
It is overlapped posteriorly by the sternum ; and the head of the displaced humerus appears to abut against its lateral border .
It contributes almost equally with the scapula to form the glenoid cavity for the head of the humerus .
Its surface is smooth .
The internal border abuts against the inter-clavicle , * and the anterior border , which is straight and transverse , meets the pre-coracoid by a transverse suture which extends into the middle of the glenoid cavity , just meeting the anterior margin of the articular border of the scapula .
The bone is vertically oblong , and measures 17 millims. in the anteroposterior direction to the border overlapped by the sternum , while transversely its measurement exceeds 1 centim. It contributes 6 millims. to the articulai cup for the humerus .
Its external lateral border below the articulation is concave ; and the posterior border is unknown , hut probably curves convexly towards the sternum and inter-clavicle .
Where the internal lateral border of the coracoid and pre-coracoid meet there is a concavity , which fits against a corresponding convexity of the mter-clavicle .
In Salamandra maculosa Professor W. K. Parker , F.R.S. , has shownt that when the animal is nearly adult both coracoid and pre-coracoid elements of the shoulder girdle are present , in addition to the scapula , but neither scapula nor precoracoid appears to reach the glenoid cavity , which is formed by the coracoid ; and , as no inter-clavicle is present , the type obviously has no near relation to the fossil .
- The absence of an inter-clavicle is one of the more singular characteristics of the diving Amphibia .
I am not aware that the pre-coracoid is ever ossified separately m the Lacertilia .
The cartilage which is so named never occupies the position , anterior to the coracoid and posterior to the transverse bar of the inter-clavicle , which the pre-coracoid has in this genus .
The nearest approach to the condition seen in the fossi is found in the Monotreme Mammals , where a pre-coracoid extends anterior to the coracoid , but it does not unite with the scapula , and extends behind the inter-clavicle , instead of meeting its lateral margin .
If the coracoid and pre-coracoid were united , the bone would resemble the coracoid of an Ornithischian .
The coracoid approximates to the bone in a Monotreme , and in a less degree to Hattena .
Sir Richard Owen has figured J a remarkable fragment , w ic is escn e parts of the mutilated scapular arch of a small Dicynodont , which may possibly belong to the same genus as the specimen now described , and indicates an animal with a skull probably about a foot long , 'if its proportions were those of this species .
The * The bone which Sir R. Owen describes and figures as epistemum m Kistecephalus ( Cat. Rept .
South Afric. ' Plate 69 , p. 63 ) I regard as being the clavicle .
\#166 ; f- Ray Society , ' Shoulder Girdle , ' p. 65 , Plate 4 , fig. 7 .
% 1 Cat. Rept .
South Afric. , ' Plate 69 , figs. 5 , 6 .
acromion of the scapula appears to me to be lost with the fracture ( fig. 1 ) which has removed the greater part of the hone , and the anterior margin of the pre-coracoid is also imperfect ; but , otherwise , it affords , when turned round into its natural position , a remarkable confirmation of the natural association of the bones now described .
Not the least curious coincidence in structure is furnished by the lateral concavity where the coracoid and pre-coracoid meet on the internal border , showing that the interFig .
1 .
position of the clavicle .
border meeting thisternum Ho. 36,287 , Brit. Museum .
clavicle in that species also had a convexity on the side of the median bar , like that which has been described in this species .
The Cla The clavicle extended along the anterior edge of the scapula as a narrow straight bar running from the acromion to the extremity of the bone .
At the acromion it probably made an angular bend , so as to extend along the pre-coracoid , to the horn of the inter-clavicle , conforming to the plan of the bone in Kistecephalus .
The Inter-clavicle .
The inter-clavicle , if I am right in thus determining the bone , differs from this element of the skeleton in every vertebrate type , apparently in being placed not in * \#171 ; ' Cat. Rept .
South Afric. , * Plate 69 , fig. 8 , b , h. ORGANIZATION , AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
493 front of the coracoids so as to overlap them , but so that they meet its lateral margins .
I do not think there is any probability of error in observation on this point , though the bones are badly preserved and only seen on one side of the body .
The bone occupies the position of a sternum , but I regard it as the inter-clavicle because its posterior end lies in front of a sternum , because its form is that of the inter-clavicle , and because this interpretation harmonizes with the general construction of the remainder of the shoulder girdle .
It is placed like the inter-clavicle in Igu , , and and is a modification of the T-shaped form seen in those Lizards , in , and Ornithorhynchus ; but it is fundamentally different in form , proportions , and osteo-logieal relations from the inter-clavicle of the Pareiasauria .
As preserved , it is 3*7 centhns .
long , is wide , with sinuous lateral margins , and transversely truncated anteriorly , where it terminates in a straight border , 1 *8 centim. wide .
The two sides are not quite symmetrical , owing apparently to fracture .
Behind the anterior border the bone contracts with concave lateral curves , so as to define the cross-bar of the T. This reduces the transverse width to half a centimetre , and there is then a transverse expansion , with convex lateral borders , widening the vertical staff to nearly a centimetre in the anterior half of its length .
Then the sides slowly converge , being almost parallel as far as the middle of the sternum , but there are some evidences of irregular transverse expansions near the distal end .
The convex expansion in the middle of the vertical staff apparently marks the transverse division between the coracoid and pre-coracoid .
The bone is flat , thin , perfectly smooth on its ventral aspect , which is exposed , and apparently lies in one plane .
Its wide staff is its most distinctive character , by which it is distinguished from the inter-clavicle of Lizards .
In Stellio the bone is relatively short , but perhaps makes as near an approach to it in plan as is to be found in the Lacertilia .
^ The inter clavicle of Chelonians does not admit of comparison , because its relations with the pre-coracoid and coracoid are not quite the same .
In no Amphibian is there any comparable condition of the inter-clavicle ; but in Monotreme Mammals the bone , though relatively shorter in the longitudinal staff , has similar relations to the coracoid , pre-coracoid , an sternum , though in both Ornithorhynchus and the anterior element in the sternum is very small .
A somewhat intermediate condition is found m the Permian genus Stereorachis of Gaudily .
The St The sternum is badly preserved , but its imperfection displays the inter-clavicle extending in front of it almost to its posterior border , though there is some reason for suspecting that the sternum may have been displaced a little forward so as to underlap the posterior borders of the coracoids .
The bone is a thin transversely ovate subhex wide anteriorly , and 1'7 centim. long , There is igonal plate , which is 2'3 centime , no definite boundary between the sides , which all merge into each other by convexities , which correspond with the angles of a hexagon .
The anterior border is slightly concave , and about 1*3 centim. long .
The antero-lateral borders are about 1 centim. long , and slightly convex .
I think it probable that they may have given attachment to the coracoids , since those bones are thus articulated in Lizards and Monotreme Mammals .
The posterior-lateral outlines are concave , and more than a centimetre long , and the posterior transverse outline is of similar length , rather convex , and irregular .
Only the internal aspect of the bone is seen ; its transverse width exceeds the measurement over the distal ends of the coracoids .
There is no certain evidence of attachment of ribs to the posterior sternal border , as among Lizards , and they were not articulated to the posterior-lateral border , as in Hatteria .
Its general form , however , is Lacertilian ; and in some Lizards , like Hemidactylus , there is a slight posterior-lateral emargination of the bone , which is more marked in Chamceleo .
In the sternum is formed on the typical Mammalian plan , and is , therefore , not comparable with the fossil , and its anterior cartilage with which the coracoids articulate is so small as to be entirely hidden behind the inter-clavicle .
The only fossil which it at all resembles is the sternum of Cetiosaurus , figured by Professor Phillips , * which he regarded as a transversely ovate bone .
Fig. Restoration of the shoulder girdle , natural size .
i. , inter-clavicle ; i'inter-clavicle seen through a break , in the sternum ; sternum ; scapula , c. , clavicle ; pc .
, pre-coracoid ; cr .
, coracoid ; glenoid cavity .
The points on which there is some deficiency of evidence in this restoration ( fig* 2 ) are : first , as to the form of the clavicles ; fragments of them are found along th\#169 ; whole of the anterior border of the scapula , they are present in Kistecfpnalus , which is nearly allied to this type of Dicynodont , and on the basis of their form in that genus * 5 Geology of Oxford/ 1871 , p. 268 .
ORGANIZATION , AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
495 I have introduced the bones as having an L-shape , with one limb resting on the scapula , and the other extending transversely in front of the pre-coracoid to the angles of the transverse border of the inter-clavicle .
Secondly , it is possible that there may be a foramen on the anterior border of the pre-coracoid ; but I attach no importance to the indication , because the character is absent from the other specimens .
Thirdly , the sternum may have been a little more posterior in position .
I have made the restoration by drawing one side of the girdle from the specimen , and then repeating it on the other side , to make the structure symmetrical .
From the description , it is evident that this shoulder girdle belongs to an ordinal type , which is distinct from all known animals .
It is intermediate in many respects between Ichthyosaurus and Ornithorhynchus , but differs from both groups in the presence or relations of the pre-coracoids , sternum , and inter-clavicle .
The Ichthyosaurs have neither pre-coracoid nor sternum , and the inter-clavicle overlaps the median union of the coracoids .
In the Monotremes the pre-coracoids and coracoids extend behind the inter-clavicle , instead of meeting its lateral borders ; but that may be a difference of degree rather than of plan , so that the arrangement in this , as in other respects , comes nearer to Ornithorhynchus than to Ichthyosaurus .
The elongation of the inter-clavicle and size of the sternum are Xiacertilian characters , and in Lizards the pre-coracoid element of cartdage does not extend behind the intei-clavicle so that the right and left elements overlap , as among Urodeles and Monotremes .
Hence from such a type , the Lacertilian shoulder girdle may be derived by loss of the individuality of the pre-coracoid , while that of the Monotreme would result from transverse expansion of the pre-coracoid , shortening of the inter-clavicle , and reduced size of the sternum .
On the whole , the Monotreme characters in this shoulder girdle may be regarded as the more remarkable , but they are blended with Lacertilian characters .
I do not , however , think that the latter features are approximations to Lizards , so much as a generalized Reptilian inheritance which suggests the Lizard type ; and that , on the whole , the Chelonian shoulder girdle may be nearer to Anomodonts than the Lizard 's .
For the Chelonian stock , before it developed a plastron and lost the separation of the pre-coracoid from the scapula , may well have developed a shoulder girdle in substantial harmony with that which is here restored .
The Humerus .
The humerus is 4'3 centims. long .
It is exposed so as to show the width of the proximal end , with the size , form , and position of its radial crest , while dist y it shows the transverse thickness of the shaft .
^ The distal extremity has the articular surface moderately convex from back to front , where the thickness of the bone is about half a centimetre .
A little above the articular extremity the shaft contracts somewhat , so as to give a rounded aspect to both sides of the condylar extremity , and makes the thickness of the shaft , w rises at the articulation , about 3 millims. The shaft widens steadily as it extends proximally , being 1 centim. wide at 2*5 centims. from the distal end .
The inferior lateral or anterior outline of the bone is nearly straight , becoming very slightly concave towards the proximal end , though the concavity is not more marked than that shown at the distal end .
The superior lateral or posterior outline , for 2*5 centims. towards the distal end , is so gently concave as to be approximately straight ; but beyond this point the radial crest widens the bone rapidly , so that at 2*9 centims. from the distal end the transverse measurement is 1*7 centim. , and then the width contracts towards the articular head ; but the radial crest is separated from the articular head by a concave area , which suggests a condition of connection between crest and head like that seen in the Crocodiles .
The margin of the crest has two sides , which are inclined to each other at a right angle , the longer side proximal , the shorter distal and sub-parallel to the head ; but the angle where the sides meet is rounded .
The head of the bone is very imperfectly preserved .
It is 1 centim , wide , and gently convex from the ulnar to the radial side .
The articular surface of the head is directed forward , and apparently makes an obtuse angle with the straight external inferior side of the bone .
The shaft appears to have made an angle with the radial crest , but the two parts of the bone are now flattened so as to lie nearly in the same plane .
This humerus approximates in size to that of ( Owen ) ( Brit. Mus. , No , 47,071 ) , but the proximal half of that bone , which is alone preserved , shows important generic differences in a much less development of the radial crest , which is more proximal in position , and continuous with the articular head of the bone ; and , judging from the position of the foramen in the shaft , the humerus of Kistecephalus was probably shorter than that of As the bone is so imperfectly exposed , it may be convenient to defer full examination of its affinities , for there can be no doubt its shape was as substantially Anomodont as the bone in other genera , though the radial crest is obviously large , and there is less indication of lateral expansion of the distal end , In these smaller and lighter bodied Anomodonts the limb bones were relatively elongated and slender ; and , just as a type like Cynodraco has the extremities of the humerus less expanded^ than in Galesaurus and Cynochampsa , so it would seem that the distal expansion jj the bone may be reduced in this more elongated type .
There is no approximation to known Monotreme genera in the humerus , But the bone as exposed is rather suggestive of the humerus of an Ornithosaur , but apparently with the ends less twisted .
The epicondylar foramen is not seen ; and , on the whole , the form of the bone shows less divergence from the humerus of a Lizard than might have been , expected from extreme forms which the Anomodont humerus assumes .
ORGANIZATION , AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
497 The Ulna and .
The ulna is 3*4 centims. long .
It is exposed so as to show the lateral contour , which is typical of all Anomodont Beptiles , being massive at the proximal end , wide at the olecranon , with an oblique concave articulation for the humerus , limited anteriorly by a slender process , below which the shaft contracts , with slightly concave sides , before it expands slightly at the distal end to form the rounded distal extremity .
The distal condyle is nearly 6 millims. wide , with a convex rounding , which is as well marked laterally as at the base .
It extends proximally for 3 millims. , when the shaft is narrowed to half its width .
The shaft retains this width for half its length , when it begins to widen proximally , chiefly by a posterior expansion .
Below the articular surface for the humerus its width is 8 millims. below the proximal extremity .
Then a slender process extends horizontally forward so as to widen the bone to nearly II millims. The antero-posterior measurement of this process is hardly more than a millimetre .
Its proximal aspect forms the border of the proximal articulation of the bone ; its distal aspect is concave .
The concave articular surface is oblique , about 7 millims. wide from below upward , so that as it ascends it somewhat reduces the width of the proximal part of the bone , which terminates in a truncated surface I millims. wide , somewhat obliquely inclined backward , being at right angles with the upper part of the articular surface , and rounding into the posterior surface .
The proximal end of the bone appears to be but little disturbed from its natural connection with the radius , since the anterior process of the proximal articulation rests upon the radius ; and this indicates that the ulna was excavated proximally to receive the radius , as in all other Anomodonts , and in a way to which some Saurischia approximate .
The radius is a shorter bone than the ulna , with the sides concave , the articular ends truncated , and the proximal end rather larger than the distal end .
The length of the bone is 3T centims. Its proximal end is 9 millims. wide , with the middle section of the articulation slightly convex from behind forward .
The sides of the shaft approximate evenly towards each other , so that in the middle length the transverse measurement is reduced to 4 millims. The proximal half of the shaft has the external surface well rounded , but the distal end is evidently more flattened .
The width of the bone at the distal end is fully 7 millims. , with the anterior corner more pointed than the posterior corner , where the articular surface forms rather more than a right angle with the posterior side .
So much as is preserved of the bony tissue appears to demonstrate that these bones of the fore arm were solid , like the humerus , though in all three the external layer is thick and dense , while the middle of the shaft is more or less loose and cellular .
The humerus is flexed at rather less than a right angle to the ulna and radius , and 3 s the convexity of its distal articulation is parallel to the proximal articular concavity of the ulna , from which an interspace 3 millims. wide separates it .
It is difficult to affirm affinities from these bones .
They have much resemblance to the ulna and radius among Lizards and Chelonians , hut their size is too small , and exposure too imperfect , to satisfactorily demonstrate their relations to the same hones in other animals .
The Carpus .
On the left side the elements of the carpus are in natural association ; on the right side they are scattered , because the ulna , with one digit and part of the carpus , has been separated from the remainder of the foot by a large sub-triangular bone .
It is difficult to identify the scattered bones , which appear to number about 14 , while in the articulated carpus I can count but 12 .
The carpus comprises three rows of bones .
In the left limb there are three bones in the proximal row , such as are commonly named radiale , intermedium , and ulnare .
The intermedium separates the distal ends of the ulna and radius .
The radiale I regard as representing the scapho-lunar ; the ulnare may be the pisiform .
The secoj^p row of bones is on the radial side , and consists of three elements in lineal series , which I regard as central !
a ; one is below the interm.edium , the other two are below the impression of the radiale .
In the distal row there are five or six bones .
It is not possible to be sure of the exact number , for , although there are six impressions of bones , it is possible that owing to irregularity of form the appearance may be deceptive , and that two of the seemingly distinct ossifications may belong to one bone .
A similar explanation would account for the apparently larger number of bones in the carpus of the right limb .
^ _J|JJ Commencing with the proximal row , the radial element is represented in the lei$ carpus by an impression , or rather a marking on the level of the surface of the sla .
It is 8 millims. wide , and extends transversely beyond the radius on the inner si e , and is 1 to 2 millims. deep ; but in the right carpus the bone in contact with the radius is deeper , measuring about half a centimetre , by nearly a centimetre wide .
The intermedium in the left carpus is an obliquely oval sub-angular elenien , 6 millims. wide by 4 millims. in the vertical direction .
In the right carpus t e^e^B element is recognized a little to the right of the ulna .
The ulnar carpal in t ie carpus appears as a narrow ossification , 6 millims. in vertical measurement by 3 millime .
in width at the proximal end , with the middle constricted , it is directed downward and inward as preserved .
In the right carpus it is wider proximally , but its vertic^ extent as preserved is less .
These differences in the forms of the bones are prob , y due to conditions of fossilization , but similar irregularities on the two sides o body are sometimes found in the carpus and tarsus of Urodeles .
Below the intermedium , and in close contact with it is a small , near y ossification , 3 millims. in diameter , which I regard as No. 1 of the central sene .
ORGANIZATION , AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL RFPTILIA .
No. 2 , which is below the inner side of the radiale , is a polygonal and transversely oval bone , 5 millims. wide , and 4 millims. in vertical measurement .
No. 3 extends further on the radial side than the radiale , so that the carpus widens distally .
This element is only indicated by a marking on the stone , about 6 millims. long by 3 millims. vertically .
On the scattered right carpus there is a bone below the ulnare which may be No. 1 ; a larger bone below the intermedium may .
be No. 2 ; while an obviously displaced bone or two at the left upper corner of the radiale may be No. 3 .
The distal row of the carpus is more obscure , and may include only the normal four bones , though the number appears to be more .
In the left carpus the element which corresponds in position with the trapezium appears to be ossified from more than one centre , but this appearance may be a result of fracture .
It is transversely oblong , 6 millims. long , with a portion directed downward under the trapezoid .
The trapezoid element is of similar form and size , though concave superiorly , and becoming narrower towards the magnum .
Between these elements is a small circular ossification , 2 millims. in diameter , which is probably a portion of one or the other .
The magnum is a four-sided bone , nearly square , placed obliquely , 4 millims. in diameter , articulating proximally with the ulnare and centrale No. I. The unciform is a smaller bone , 3 millims. in vertical diameter by 2 millims. in width , but it is probably imperfectly preserved .
In the right limb the forms of the distal carpal bones are different , and , though they appear to be more numerous , may perhaps only number four .
Owing to the condition of the bones , it is not easy to make an accurate comparison of this carpus with the same region in other animals ; but on the whole it is probably best compared with that of Hattevia and the Tortoises .
The presence of central ia makes its near resemblance to the South African fossil Mammal interesting , as a modification which is in harmony with the Mammalian chaiacter of the shoulder girdle .
The Digits .
In the left limb there is no trace of the metacarpus or digits .
But on the right side , in which the ulna and radius are separated by a large bone which is possibly one of the hyoid elements , three digits lie in connection with the radius , and one with the ulna .
It is possible that the first digit is imbedded in the matrix , for there appear to be indications of the first metacarpal in the slab .
Nevertheless , .
only four digits are preserved in Platypodosaurus ; * and the only South African fossil m which there are five digits preserved is the impression of the fore-limb figured by Sir B. Owenf as Dicynodont , and subsequently referred with doubt to Dicynodon .
% * ' Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Joum.\ vol. 36 , Plate 17 , " Description of Parts of the Skeleton of an Anomodont Reptile , Platypodosaurus robustus ( Ow .
) , from the Trias of Graaf Reinet , S. Africa , by Professor wen , C.3 .
, F.G.S. t In his ' Catalogue of South African Reptilia ' ( Plate 52 , figs- 2 , 3 ) .
+ ' Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. ' , vol. 36,1880 , p. 424 .
That specimen I regard as indicating a new genus , because the form of the humerus is distinctive , and , instead of being longer than the radius , as in other known Anomo-donts , it is relatively shorter .
It may be referred to as Eurycarpus Oweni .
The number of digits is variable in other orders of fteptilia ; and therefore the question must remain open whether Dicynodonts had four or five .
If the first metacarpal is present , only its proximal end is exposed in near union with the radiale : a circular osseous point in advance of it might then indicate its distal end ; while a somewhat larger circle prolonging the line inward would indicate the first phalange .
These identifications , however , rest upon too shadowy a foundation of fact to be evidence that the digit existed .
The remaining digits are remarkable for showing a reduced number of phalanges .
There are , apparently , three in the middle digit on the radial side , but only two in each of the other digits , as in terrestrial Chelonians .
I number the digits 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 .
The metacarpal of digit II .
has a dice-box form , with large extremities .
It is 8 to 9 millims. long , 5 millims. wide proximally , and slightly wider distally .
The third metacarpal is of similar form , about 7 millims. long ; and the fourth is rather shorter , but its extremities are worn .
The articular extremities appear to be more convex on the under side than on the upper side , and the proximal end is usually rather larger than the distal end .
The first phalange of digit II .
is much stronger thaiuthe corresponding bones in the other digits , which decrease in size towards the ulnar side .
All the bones appear to be sub-cylindrical , and contracted in the middle like the metacarpals , but are much smaller at the distal end than at the proximal end ; the latter is flattened , and the former more convex .
The claw phalanges are comparatively large , and as long as the phalanges which they follow ; they are flattened from above downward with the superior surface convex , and apparently two grooves at the sides , such as are seen in Iguanodon .
If this specimen may be relied upon as a type of the Anomodontia , it makes known a very remarkable characteristic in the small number of phalangeal bones , and the small size of the foot .
M / *1 The accompanying restoration of the skeleton ( Plate 76 ) is based in its anterior part upon the bones now described , and in the vertebral column and hind limb upon fragmentary evidences from Anomodonts in the British Museum .
It represents thft maximum elevation of the body above the ground , such as might occur in water ; but , as a rule , I regard the animal , when at rest , as lying on the ground like a Crocodile .
I would express my grateful thanks to Dr. Henry Woodward , F.B.S. , for the facilities afforded me in making these studies , and for permission to describe and figure the remains .
ORGANIZATION , AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
Explanation of Plates .
PLATE 75 .
Slab in the British Museum ( No. 49,413 ) showing the skull , vertebrae , ribs , scapular arch and sternal apparatus , and fore-limbs of a Dicynodont Reptile , Keirognathuscordylus .
Skull : T. , temporal fossa ; 0 .
, orbit ; N. , narine ; t. , tooth ; pt .
, pterygoid ; q. , quad-bone ; a. , articular bone in the mandible .
c. r. , cervical ribs in contact with cervical vertebrae .
d. r. , dorsal ribs .
d.v. , dorsal vertebra .
Scapular arch : s. , scapula ; cl. , clavicle ; ic. , inter-clavicle ; sternum ; c. , coracoid ; pc .
, pre-coracoid ; g. , glenoid cavity .
Fore-limb ( left ) : h. , humerus ; u. , ulna ; r. , radius ; cs .
, carpus ; the three proximal bones are regarded as ulnare , intermedium , and radiale ; the three centralia are indicated as c1 , c2 , c3 ; and the distal row , Tm .
, T. , m. , u. , is interpreted as trapezium , trapezoid , magnum , and unciform .
The digits are only preserved in the right limb , where three are connected with the radius and one with the ulna , the bones of the fore-arm being separated by an undetermined bone ( ?
) possibly the hyoid .
PLATE 76 .
Restoration of Keirognathus cordylus , based upon the evidence of the preceding figure .
The dark tint indicates the parts shown in that slab .
The large size of the tooth is not quite established .
The hind-limbs may have been relatively longer than is here indicated .
The light parts are based upon Russian and South African evidenced of Anomodont structures .
When at rest the animal is regarded as having been supported upon the lower jaw , scapular arch , ribs , and pelvic bones .
Sedey .
Phil. Trans. 1888.B.jP^e 75 .
Wst , Newman 3cCo lxnjo .
-M M. Woodward , del.et 11th .
Skull and Tore limbs of K_eiroSnaTtrus cordyTus Phil. Trans. 1888.B.Platt 76 .
CO \#166 ; P r\#151 ; f \gt ; \gt ; tS p o. o or d COO O P 0 Cm O P 0 1 rH cd P o co \lt ; D Weat^ewmaJi 3c .
Co imp-

