Mr. Ivory 's paper , entitled , " On the Equilibrium of a Mass of Homogeneous Fluid at liberty , " was resumed and concluded .
The author shows that Clairaut 's theory of the equilibrium of fluids , however seductive by its conciseness and neatness , and by the skill displayed in its analytical construction , is yet insufficient to soive the problem in all its generality .
The equations of the upper surface of the fluid , and of all the level surfaces underneath it , are derived , in that theory , from the single expression of the hydrostatic pressure , and are entirely dependent on the differential equation of the surface .
They require , therefore , that this latter equation be determinate and explicitly given ; and accordingly they are sufficient to solve the problem when the forces are known algebraical expressions of the co-ordinates of the point of action ; but they are not sufficient when the forces are not explicitly given , but depend , as they do in the case of a homogeneous planet , on the assumed figure of the fluid .
In this latter case , the solution of the problem requires , farther , that the equations be brought to a determinate form by eliminating all that varies with the unknown figure of the fluid ; and the means of doing this are not provided for in the theory of Clairaut , which tacitiy as ?
sumes that the forces urging the interior particles are derived from the forces at the upper surface , merely by changing the co-ordinates at the point of action .
In the case of a homogeneous planet , the forces acting on the interior particles are not deducible , in the manner supposed , from the forces at the surface .
After showing that the equilibrium of a fluid , entirely at liberty , will not be disturbed by a pressure of the same intensity applied to all the parts of the exterior surface , the author considers the action of the forces upon the particles in the interior parts of the body of the fluid ; and shows that although the forces at the surface are universally deducible from the general expressions of the forces of the interior parts , yet the converse of this proposition is not universally true , the former not being always deducible from the latter ; a distinction which is not attended to in Clairaut 's theory .
He then investigates the manner in which these two classes of forces are connected together ; establishes a general theorem on the subject ; and proceeds to its application tosome of the principal problems , relating to the equilibrium of a homogeneous fluid at liberty , and of which the particles attract one another with forces , first in the inverse duplicate ratio , and secondly in the direct ratio of the distance , at the same time that they are urged by a centrifugal force arising from their re ?
volution round an axis .
The author concludes with some remarks on Maclaurin 's demonstration of the equilibrium of the oblate elliptical spheroid ; and on the method of investigation followed in the paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1824 .
In an Appendix the author subjoins some remarks on the manner in which this subject has been treated by M. Poisson .
The reading of a paper was then commenced , entitled , " Experi ?
mental Researches in Electricity ; " Eighth Series .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S.

