II .
" On the Action of Chloride of Iodine on Iodide of Ethylene and Propylene Gas .
" By MAXWE , LLJ SIMPSON , M.B. Communicated by Dr. FRANKLAND .
Received February 18 , 1862 .
I have already shown* that the cyanides of the diatomic radicals can be prepared by submitting their bromides to the action of cyanide of potassium .
In the hope of forming the cyanides of the triatomic radicals in a similar manner , I subjected the bromides of several of these latter radicals to the action of the same reagent .
Finding , how ever , the reaction not quite satisfactory , it occurred to me that the iodides of these radicals mtight possibly yield better results .
With this view I endeavoured to prepare the teriodide of aldehydene ( Co H3 I , ) , by exposing iodide of ethylene to the action of chloride of iodine , expecting that the teriodide would be formed by virtue of the following reaction : C , H11 I2+C11= C , H3 3+ H C1 .
My expectations , however , were not realized , the product of the reaction being a body which I shall call chloriodide of ethylene ( C4 H4 I C1 ) .
The experiment was performed in the following manner : Action of Chloride of Iodine on Iodide of Ethylene.--A solution of chloride of iodine in water containing a trace of free iodine was agitated vigorously with a quantity of iodide of ethylene , till the latter became black and changed into a fluid oil .
This was then washed with dilute potash and distilled .
Almost the entire liquid passed over between 146 ?
and 1520 Cent. It gave , on analysis , results which correspond perfectly with the formula I have given above .
I obtained 12'43 instead of 12'55 per cent. of carbon .
If we regard the constitution of iodide of ethylene as C , 1I3 1 , III , the reaction which gives birth to this body becomes perfectly intelligible .
It is simply the substitution of chlorine for iodine in hydriodic acid : C H3l I , 111 I+= CI H,3 I , H C1+I I. Chloriodide of ethylidene is a colourless oil .
It has a sweet taste , and is slightly soluble in water .
It boils at about 147 ?
Cent. It is a remarkable fact that neither this body nor Dutch liquid is formed when iodide of ethylene is exposed to the action of chlorine-water .
I have also subjected propylene gas , derived from amylic alcohol , to the action of chloride of iodine , and find that an oily body is formed in large quantity , which contains iodine .
This I am at present engaged in studying .
The action of chloride of iodine on propylene gas obtained from glycerine appears to be similar .

