276 List of Candidates .
[ Mar. 6 , March 6 , 1890 .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Baker , Sir Benjamin , M.Inst .
C.E. Bateson , William , M.A. Bosanquet , Robert Holford Mac-dowall , M.A. Burbury , Samuel Hawkesley , M.A. Buzzard , Thomas , M.D. Cameron , Sir Charles Alexander , M.D. Carneiley , Professor Thomas , D.Sc .
Clark , John Willis , M.A. Conroy , Sir John , Bart. , M.A , Corfield , William Henry , M.D. Crisp , Frank , LL. B. Cunningham , Professor Daniel John , M.D. Davis , James William , E.G.S. Dawson , George Mercer , D.Sc .
Dresser , Henry Eales , E.L.S. Eaton , Rev. Alfred Edwin , M.A. Edgeworth , Professor Francis Ysidro , M.A. Elgar , Professor Francis , LL. D. Elliott , Edwin Bailey , M. A. Ellis , William , E.R.A.S. Ewart , Professor J. Cossar , M.D. Frankland , Professor Percy Faraday , B.Sc. Gadow , Hans , M.A. Gardiner , Walter , M.A. Giffen , Robert , LL. D. Gilchrist , Percy C " Gotch , Francis , M.R.C.S. Halliburton , William Dobinson , M.D. Harker , Alfred , M.A. Heath , Christopher , F.R.C.S. Herdman , Professor William Abbott , D.Sc .
Hickson , Sydney John , D.Sc .
Hinde , George Jennings , Ph. D. Howorth , Henry Hoyle .
Kerr , John , LL. D. King , George .
Lansdell , Rev. Henry , D.D. Lea , Arthur Sheridan , D.Sc .
Macalister , Donald , M.D. MacMahon , Percy Alexander , Major R.A. MacMunn , Charles , M.D. Marr , John Edward , M.A. Martin , John Biddulph , M.A. Matthey , Edward , F.C.S. Miall , Professor Louis C. Mond , Ludwig , F.C.S. ISTicholson , Professor Henry Alleyn , M.D. Norman , Rev. Alfred Merle , M.A. Ord , William Miller , M.D. Palmer , Henry Spencer , Major-General R.E. Pedler , Professor Alexander , F.C.S. Perkin , Professor William Henry , jun .
, F.C.S. Pickering , Professor Spencer Umfreville , M.A. Roberts , Isaac , F.R.A.S. Ross , James , M.D. 1890 .
] On a second Occurrence of Silver Volcanic Dust .
277 Rutley , Frank , F.G.S. Sankey , Matthew Henry P. R. , Capt. R.E. Saunders , Howard , F.L.S. Scott , Alexander de Courcy , Major-General R.E. Seebohm , Henry , F.L.S. Sharp , David , M.B. Shaw , William Rapier , M.A. Smith , Willoughby .
Stebbing , Rev. Thomas Roscoe Rede , M.A. Stevenson , Thomas , M.D. Sutton , J. Bland , F.R.C.S. The following Papers were i*ead Teall , J. J. Harris , M.A. Thompson , Professor Silvanus Phillips , D.Sc .
Thorne , Richai 'd Thorne , M.D. Thornycroft , John Isaac , M. Inst. C.E. Tizard , Thomas Henry , Staff-Oommander R.N. Yeley , Victor Hugo , M.A. Waller , Augustus D. , M.D. Weldon , Walter Frank Raphael , M.A. Whitehead , Charles , F.L.S. I. " On a second Case of the Occurrence of Silver in Volcanic Dust , namely , in that thrown out in the Eruption of Tunguragua in the Andes of Ecuador , January 11th , 188(1 .
" By J. W. Mallet , F.R.S. , Y.P.C.S. , University of Virginia .
Received February 7 , 1890 .
In a paper laid before the Royal Society three years ago , * I gave an account of a specimen of volcanic dust , or so-called ash , from the eruption of Cotopaxi of July 22nd and 23rd , 1885 , in which ash silver was found to be present in minute quantity , that being the first instance in which this metal had been detected among the materials ejected from volcanoes .
The specimen was sent me by my friend and former pupil Senor Julio R. Santos , of Bahia de Caraguez , Ecuador .
In his letter accompanying it , dated March 8th , 1886 , he said , " On the Uth and 12th of January there was a terrific eruption from Mount Tunguragua .
It is more than a century ago since the last eruption of this volcano .
" I requested Senor Santos to procure for me if possible some of the ash from this unexpected outburst of Tunguragua , which he kindly promised to do , and at once took steps for the purpose , but his own absence from home and protracted stay at Panama delayed the matter , and only in the early part of the present year ( 1889 ) did the specimen reach me .
senfhug it , on the 8th of February last , he wrote to me that it was collected in Guayaquil on the 11th of January , 1886 , on sheets of clean cloth , by Senor Ancisar Montalvo . . .
Mount Tunguragua had been silent for over a century ; on the 11th of .
* See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 42 , 1887 , p. 1 .
Y- 2 278 Mr. J. W.Mallet .
On a Second Case of the [ Mar. 6 , January , 1886 , began its eruption , and it continued in eruption till November of the same year .
" The volcano in question\#151 ; about 16,500 feet in height\#151 ; is one of the great mountains of the Eastern Cordillera of Ecuador , lying some 50 or 60 miles south and a little east of Cotopaxi , in between 1 ' and 2 ' of south latitude , and about 85 or 90 miles in a direct line from Guayaquil on the coast of the Pacific , where the specimen of ash was collected .
The appearance of the regular cone-shaped summit , rising directly from a plain of only 5700 feet above sea level , is described as very striking , crowned with perpetual snow , and resembling in aspect Cotopaxi .
Villavicencio in his work on Ecuador thus speaks of it\#151 ; " Esta belMsima montaha esta collocada d un nivel inferior de todas las otras montahas del Ecuador , la que Tiace que su altura aparente , mirada desde su base , sea mucho mayor que la del Chimborazo . . . .
volcan tiene la figura de un cono cuya parte superior estd cubierta de nieves sempiternas que forman una especie de capucha que , contrastando con las negras peholeriasde su base i algunos bosques , le dan un aspecto sublime i hello : su descenso es rapido por todas partes , escepto por el lado en que se une con la cordillera , por cuya parte se puede subir hasta principiar las nieves ; pero de alii en adelante hay para el viajero mas intrepido .
La nieve deshecha de su copa se precipita en cascadas elevadisimas , que aumentan la hermosura de ese sublime cono , que tiene de notable el encontrarse en el todos los desde el frio de la Siberia , que comienza en el limite de sus nieves , hasta el de 27 ' del centigrado que tiene su base .
" The most notable eruption recorded was that of 1777 .
The mountain was long classed with apagados or extinct volcanoes , although from time to time during the last century several explorers have reported " smoke " as seen issuing from the summit .
It is generally believed in the surrounding country that a subterranean communication , , following the line of the Andes , exists between this volcano and Cotopaxi , the one showing signs of activity when the other is in eruption , and becoming quiet when such eruption ceases .
The specimen of Tunguragua volcanic ash received by me had very much the same appearance as that of the Cotopaxi ash formeily examined\#151 ; a very finely divided powder , of light brownish-gi ey oi fawn colour , a little lighter in shade than the Cotopaxi specimen .
Under the microscope the same minute grains and spiculse were seen , having for the most part sharp , splintery edges and angles .
The same general mineralogical character was observed essentially the debris of trachytic " andesite " \#151 ; with apparently less difference m the colour of the felspar present , which was almost all white or colourless , and with fewer disseminated particles of magnetite and specular iron .
There were some scales of what was probably comminuted vesicular pumice .
1890 .
] Occurrence of Silver in Volcanic Dust .
The specific gravity was found = 2*597 at 25 ' C. , as compared with water at the same temperature .
The ash was fusible , though with difficulty , before the mouth blowpipe , or in a small platinum spoon or crucible over the blast , lamp , forming a greenish vesicular slag , red on the surface .
On being boiled with water it gave up 0*13 per cent , of soluble matter .
This portion , soluble in water , consisted mainly of sodium sulphate and chloride , with a little of the corresponding salts of potassium and traces of yellowish-brown organic matter .
Treatment with dilute hydrochloric or even acetic acid produced quite noticeable effervescence .
On digestion with gentle warming in rather dilute acetic acid , 3*36 per cent , dissolved , of which 2*83 per cent , was calcium carbonate , 0*31 per cent , magnesium carbonate , and the rest minute amounts of iron , aluminum , and the alkaline salts soluble in -water .
On being boiled with strong hydrochloric acid the ash ( not having been previously treated with water or acetic acid ) dissolved to the extent of 9*61 per cent. , the solution having a dark yellow-brown colour , due to the presence of iron .
The material taken as a whole , i.e. , without any previous mechanical separation of its constituent minerals , and without previous digestion with water or acid , but dried at 100 ' 0 .
, gave on analysis the following results* :\#151 ; Si02 . .
61-49 Ti03 0-18 AiA . .
16-05 ^e2\#174 ; 3 2-84 FeO 2-48 MnO MgO 1-04 ' CaO 3-39 Na20 6-85 KoO 2-14 i%o Ag Cl so4 Organic matter . . . . ?
\#187 ; CaC03 2-83 MgCOg HS0 99-87 besides the MgCOs and CaC03 stated below .
* For comparison withi these results may be quoted the following A. Abicli 's analysis of the rock , andesite , from the summit of Chimborazo .
( Gh 280 On the Occurrence of Silver in Volcanic Dust .
[ Mar. 6 , .
On finding the carbonates of calcinm and magnesium , I was at first inclined to suspect that they were merely impurities , which had become mingled with the ash in collecting it\#151 ; fragments of plaster from a wall , or something of that kind\#151 ; hut from their pretty uniform distribution , which was ascertained by two or three separate experiments , and from their fine state of division , no particles separately detectable by the naked eye being found , this does not seem likely , and it is rather to be supposed that these carbonates are present as minute particles of a magnesian limestone , torn away by the larger ejected masses from some portion of the inner surface of the crater of the volcano .
A large part of the silver of South America is said to occur associated with limestones of Carboniferous age in the Bolivian and Peruvian Andes , but whether such rocks have been observed to extend into Ecuador I do not know .
As for the distinct trace of organic matter observed , this may in part represent ordinary dust swept down from the lower regions of the atmosphere , but was no doubt partly at least derived from the cloth on which the volcanic ash is said to have been collected , since a few cotton fibres were easily identified under the microscope .
It was proved , as in the case of the ash from Cotopaxi formerly examined , that the silver present in minute quantity could be dissolved out by boiling with an aqueous solution of ammonia , or of potassium cyanide , or of sodium thiosulphate , but was not appreciably extracted by nitric acid .
Hence , as was remarked in the former paper , it seems Bischof , ' Elements of Chem. and Phys. Geology , translated for the Cavendish Society , ' vol. 3 , pp. 392\#151 ; 393 .
) B. 1,2 , and 3 .
Analyses of dust from the great eruption of Krakatoa in the Sunda Strait , August 26 and 27 , 1883 .
( ' Report of the Committee of the Royal Society on the Eruption of Krakatoa , ' p. 40 .
) 1 , referring to the dust which fell at Krakatoa ; 2 , to that which fell at points within 100 miles from the volcano ; and 3 , to a specimen which fell nearly 900 miles from the volcano volatile matters are omitted , and the totals calculated to 100 parts .
B. A. ( A 1 .
2 .
3 .
Si02 65 -09 ... .
61-36 66-77 ... .
68-99 Ti02 \#151 ; 112 0-67 0-39 AI2O3 15*58 ... .
17-77 ... .
16-44 ... .
15-24 3-83 4-39 3-41 0-28 EeO 1-73 1-71 1-37 3-72 MnO \#151 ; 0-41 0-38 ... .
trace MgO 4-10 2-32 1-67 0-83 CaO 2-61 3-45 ... .
2-90 2-76 Na20 4-46 4-98 ... !
4-14 4-32 k2o 1-99 2-51 2-25 3-47 Loss by ignition 041 ... .
\#151 ; . . . .
\#151 ; ... .
\#151 ; .99-8 100-02 100-00 100 -oo 1890 .
] On the Tension of recently formed Liquid Surfaces .
281 most probable that the metal exists in the ash as silver chloride .
No other heavy metal than iron and silver could be detected .
The most scrupulous care was taken in proving that the silver did not come from any of the vessels or reagents employed .
By carefully made assays , both in the dry and liquid way , it was found that the silver was present to the extent of about 1 part in 107,200 of the ash , or between a fourth and a third of a Troy ounce to the ton of 2240 pounds .
This is rather a smaller proportion than was found in the Cotopaxi ash , which contained about 1 part for 83,600 , or two-fifths of an ounce per ton .
In both eruptions the fall of considerable quantities of ashes at points on the sea coast so distant from the respective volcanoes as Guayaquil and Bahia de Caraguez indicates that in the aggregate very large absolute amounts of silver must have been ejected and dispersed .
These two appear to be the only cases in which silver has been detected among the materials thrown out by volcanoes .
Although the fact is well known that the chain of the Andes has for centuries yielded this metal in great abundance , it is worthy of notice that , to the depths as yet reached by mining work , Ecuador is less rich in valuable minerals , and especially the precious metals , than any other of the South American States .
II .
" On the Tension of Recently Formed Liquid Surfaces.5 ' By Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received February 13 , 1890 .
It has long been a mystery why a few liquids , such as solutions of soap and saponine , should stand so far in advance of others in l'egard to their capability of extension into large and tolerably durable laminae .
The subject was specially considered by Plateau in his valuable researches , but .
with results wThich cannot be regarded as wholly satisfactory .
In his view the question is one of the ratio between capillary tension and superficial viscosity .
Some of the facts adduced certainly favour a connexion between the phenomena attributed to the latter property and capability of extension ; but the " superficial viscosity " is not clearly defined , and itself stands in need of explanation .
It appears to me that there is much to be said in favour of the suggestion of Marangoni* to the effect that both capability of extension and so-called superficial viscosity are due to the presence upon the body of the liquid of a coating or pellicle composed of matter whose inherent capillary foi'ce is less than that of the mass .
By * ' Nuovo Cimento , ' vol. 5-6,1871-72 , p. 239 .

