1880 .
] On the Cochlea of the Ornithorhynchus platypus .
149 electrometer needle came to rest ; the result was that the residual charge under these circumstances did not exceed 3 per cent , of the original charge , also that it mattered not whether the discharge lasted iu0- second or Jg- second .
These experiments suffice to show that : neither of the above suppositions accounts for the facts .
I have repeated my own experiments with the guard ring condenser , hut with a more powerful battery , and with a new key which differs j from the old one inasmuch as immediately after the condensers are connected to the electrometer they are separated from it .
In no case do I obtain results differing much from those I had previously published .
Lastly , a rough model of the five plate induction balance used by Mr. Gordon was constructed , but arranged so that the distances of the plates could be varied within wide limits .
So far as instrumental means at hand admitted , Mr. Gordon 's method was used .
A plate of double extra dense flint and a plate of brass were tried .
In the first , by varying the distances of the five plates , values of K were obtained ranging from 1J to 8^ , with the latter values from to 3 .
It is clear that the five plate induction balance thus arranged cannot give reliable results .
The explanation of the anomaly , then , is that the deviation from uniformity of field in Mr. Gordon 's apparatus causes errors greater than anyone would suspect without actual trial .
It is probable that the supposed change of electrostatic capacity with time may be accounted for in the same way .
IV .
" The Cochlea of the Ornithorhynchus platypus compared with that of ordinary Mammals and of Birds .
" By Urban Pritchard , M.D. , F.R.C.S. , Aural Surgeon of King 's College Hospital .
Received November 9 , 1880 .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. ( Abstract .
) General Form of the Cochlea of the Duckbill or Ornithorhynchus .
This cochlea consists of a somewhat curved tube , about a quarter of an inch ( 6'3 millims. ) in length , and one-twentieth of an inch ( 1'26 millim. ) in diameter , projecting forwards from the cavity of the vestibule and embedded in the substance of the petrous bone .
It is nearly horizontal , and is slightly curved outwards .
In section the tube is first oblong , with its greatest diameter from top to bottom , then somewhat triangular , and finally oval , with its greatest diameter from side to side .
It terminates in a slightly enlarged rounded extremity , flattened from top to bottom .
Dr. U. Pritchard .
[ Dec. 9 , Comparison with Typical Mammals and Birds .
In general form the duckbill 's cochlea closely resembles that of the bird , and is very different to the spiral cochlea of the ordinary mammal .
The two first differ , however , in that the duckbill 's is more curved , and curved outwards instead of inwards , as in the bird .
The enlarged apex of the former is rounded , that of the bird oval .
The typical mammalian cochlea tube differs from that of the duckbill in being spiral instead of merely curved , in tapering from commencement to apex , and in being much longer .
Lastly , the axis of the spiral cochlea is horizontal , whereas that of the curved one is vertical .
The Internal Arrangement and Minute Structure of the DucTchilVs Cochlea .
The interior of the tube is divided horizontally into two scales by a partition , the inner portion of which is thick and bony ( lamina ossea ) ; the outer , thin and membranous ( lamina membranacea ) ; a third scala is formed by a delicate membrane ( membrane of Reissner ) proceeding from the upper surface of the lamina ossea to the inner* wall of the tube .
The upper and larger division is the scala vestibuli , and this communicates posteriorly with the vestibule ; the lower is the scala tympani .
These two are united at the apex of the cochlea by means of an oval opening , helicotrema .
The third , a small triangular tube , is the ductus cochleae , or scala media , and this constitutes the membranous labyrinth ; it contains the endolymph , and is entirely separate from the other two seal\#174 ; , which contain the epilymph .
The ductus cochleae is lined with epithelium ; the scales vestibuli and tympani with endothelium .
The lamina ossea is a wedge-shaped mass of modified bone attached to the lower part of the outer wall and the outer part of the floor of the tube .
Its inner free margin presents a deep groove ( marginal sulcus ) , the lower lip of which projects further inwards than the upper .
The lamina ossea does not extend to the apex of the cochlea , and thus allows of the communication between the scales vestibuli and tympani .
The ductus cochleae is triangular in section , the floor is formed by the inner portion ( limbus ) of the lamina ossea and a strong membrane ( membrana basilaris ) , which stretches from the lower lip of the sulcus to a mass of connective tissue ( ligamentum cochleae ) adherent to the inner wall of the cochlea .
The inner wall of the ductus is formed of this ligamentum cochleae ; and the outer wall , or sloping roof , by the delicate membrane of Reissner , which springs from the upper surface # In describing the position of the parts in the duckbill 's cochlea , the median liTift of the body is taken as the centre j in the spiral cochlea , the modiolus or axis .
1880 .
] On the Cochlea of the Ornithorhynchus platypus .
151 of the limbus , and is attached to the upper part of the ligamentum cochleae .
_ , The membrana basilaris is composed of three fibrous layers ; the lower , longitudinal ; the middle , transverse ; and the upper , formed of very fine transverse fibres .
There are two blood-vessels running longitudinally in the lower layer .
The ligamentum cochleae is a somewhat triangular mass of connective tissue with numerous blood-vessels , which in its upper portion run longitudinally , and , with the epithelium , form the stria vascularis .
The membrane of Reissner is composed of a delicate basement membrane , with the endothelium of the scala vestibuli on its upper surface , and epithelium on its under surface ; here and there bloodvessels may be traced on it , running from the limbus to the ligament , and in some places these vessels form convoluted knots .
The epithelium lining the ductus cochleae varies according to its position : that lining the membrane of Reissner is composed of a single layer of hexagonal cells ; in the sulcus they are rounded ; on the inner part of the membrana basilaris and the lower portion of the ligament they are cuboid ; on the upper part of the ligament they are very peculiar , and resemble Jshe transitional variety closely packed together .
In the deeper part of the layer run numerous longitudinal blood-vessels , and this forms the already mentioned stria vascularis .
The remaining portion of the epithelial layer that lies on the lower lip Of the sulcus , and on the outer portion of the membrana basilaris , is developed into the so-called organ of Corti .
This organ of Corti consists of a double row of rods ( of Corti ) , united at their upper ends and separate below ; they stand on the merabrana basilaris , and with it form a triangular tunnel .
The rods of both rows have cylindrical shafts and enlarged extremities ; the upper ends of the inner row are rounded , and fit in corresponding concavities of the outer row .
A delicate process projects inwards from the upper part of each of the rods , the processes of the outer ones lying above those of the inner .
Rows of hair cells are arranged on either side of these rods one* to the outer side and three to the inner .
Below the three inner rows are situated rows of nuclear cells ( cells with well-marked nuclei , but no regular cell-wall ) , the cells of Deiters .
Lying on the lower lip of the sulcus is a small mass of nuclear cells , and there is a row of these cells at each of the lower angles of the triangular tunnel .
The inner and outer side of the organ of Corti is formed of modified columnar cells .
A reticulate membrane covers the rods and hair cells , the hairs of which project through certain circular meshes of the membrane .
* Since presenting this communication X have discovered a second row of hair cells in this position .
Dr. U. Pritchard .
[ Dee .
9 Covering the limbus , crossing the sulcus , and covering the organ , a mucoid layer , the membrana tectoria .
Nerve filaments pierce the upper lip of the sulcus and pass to the hair cells and nuclear cells of the organ .
The organ of Corti , with the membrana basilaris below and the membrana tectoria above , form the lamina membranacea .
The ductus cochleae commences as a delicate tube , no doubt connected in some way with the saccule of the vestibule .
Its termination is very peculiar ; instead of ending with the lamina ossea , where the organ of Corti ends , it is continued round the apex of the cochlea to form three-fourths of a circle .
Just past the end of the lamina it forms a circular tube ; at the other side of the apex , it enlarges into an oval chamber ( lagena ) which terminates at the base of the lamina ossea .
This lagena is lined by epithelium , ehiefly cuboid , but with one large patch of nerve epithelium , like the thorn cells and bristle cells found in the maculae acusticae of the vestibule .
( " Quar .
Jour , of Micros Science , " p. 379 , 1876 .
) The cochlear branch of the auditory nerve passes through the bone on a level with the floor of the tube , but to its outer side .
It gives off lateral branches all along to the lamina , and it 's terminal fibres go to the lagena .
The lateral branches pass through a ganglionic mass , similar to the ganglion spirale , and then on through the lamina , close to its lower surface , finally perforating the upper lip of the sulcus by a single row of holes ( habenula perforata ) and entering the organ of Corti as already described .
Comparison of the Minute Structure of the Cochlea of the Duckbill with that of Typical Mammals .
Irom the foregoing description , the duckbill 's cochlea is shown to be so unmistakably mammalian in type , that merely the differences will here be noted .
The lamina spiralis membranacea increases in width , and so do its component parts , from base to apex of the spiral cochlea ; in the duckbill 's this widening takes place , but not nearly to such an extent as in the spiral cochlea .
The rods of Corti in the duckbill are not so well developed as in the typical mammal .
The membrane of Reissner in this monotreme presents blood-vessels on its surface with convoluted knots ; these I have never found nor read of in this situation in any other mammal .
The vas spirale of the ordinary mammal is represented by two vessels in the duckbill .
The course of the cochlear nerve necessarily differs in the two forms of cochlea .
But the great difference is found in the presence of the lagena at the 1880.1 On the Cochlea of the Ornithorhynchus platypus .
\gt ; nd of the duckbill 's ductus cochleae ; this has never been found in uammals , but is found in birds , reptiles , and amphibians .
Comparison with the Bird .
I A brief description of the bird 's cochlea , will be found in my paper , in extenso ; in this abstract I propose only noting the similarities and ^dissimilarities .
The scalse tympani in each type of cochlea correspond .
There is no scala vestibuli in the bird , the scala media ( ductus ) occupying the whole of the upper division of the tube .
The membrane of Reissner and stria vascularis is represented by the tegumentum in the bird .
The lamina ossea corresponds to the quadrilateral cartilage , and the ligamentum cochleae to the triangular cartilage of the bird .
There are no rods of Corti in the bird : the hair cells are more numerous and their component hairs are united together into a spine .
The nerve fibres pieree the quadrilateral cartilage by numerous rows of holes , instead of one row , as in the duckbill and other mammals .
The lagena , with its macula aeustica , is foup^l both in the bird and duckbill , but in the former is a direet continuation of the ductus , whereas in the latter it is connected by means of a constricted tube .
Moreover , the ductus of the duckbill makes three-fourths of a turn , but that of the bird is nearly straight .
General Conclusions arrived at the Research .
Although the outer form of this monotreme 's cochlea resembles that of the bird in being nearly straight , yet its internal arrangement is decidedly mammalian .
The general acoustic apparatus of the duckbill 's cochlea is not nearly so extensive as that of the ordinary mammal nor is its organ of Corti so well developed .
Lastly , the duckbill 's cochlea possesses an addition , the lagena , which is not found in any other mammal , but which is found in the bird , reptile , and amphibian .
Thus if presents a distinct link between the cochlea of the higher mammals and that of the lower vertebrates .
In conclusion , I desire to give my most hearty thanks to the many Australian friends who , by their zeal in my cause , have provided me with specimens of the ornithorhynchus in such a good state of preservation as to allow of their- microscopic preparation and examination .

