]\gt ; Dr. T. R. Merton .
It will be of interest to discover whether the changes in the spectrum of hydrogen which are observed when helium is added , can be reproduced in any other way .
Hitherto all } ) involving a change in the conditions of electrical excitation have failed , but it is not unlikely that other elements of the group of inactive gases will be found to resemble helium in their effect .
At present there seems to be no explanation of the , but it is hoped that the experimental results may be of use in theoretical ations of the secondary rum , the interpretation of which must constitute an important advance in our knowledge of the structure of the atom .
On the of Isotopes .
By T. R. MERTON , M.A. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. A. Fowler , F.R.S. Received October 1 , 1919 .
) In a previous a comparison was made of a number of lines in the spectra of ordinary lead and of lead of radio-active origin .
The wavelengths of seven lines in each case were measured from plates taken with a concave grating , and were found to be identical for the two varieties of lead within the limits of experimental , which was about A. A further examination was made in the case of the line A. , which is the brightest line in the spectrum , by measurement of the interference fringes by means of a Fabry and Perot etalon , and it was concluded that any difference 1oetween the wave-lengths of this line in the two varieties of lead was less than A. , which was the mean error in these measurements .
has recently made a comparison of the wave-length of the line A. in the spectrum of ordinary lead , and of lead obtained from Australian carnotite , and from measurements made on plates taken in the sixth order of a 10-inch Michelson , has found that the wave-length of this line in the spectrum of the lead of radio-active origin is less re- frangible than the line in the spectrum of ordinary lead by A. I have recently made a new series of measurements by a procedure greatly superior to that adopted in my previous investigations , and it now appears that my previous estimate of the accuracy with which the two wave-lengths were identical was somewhat too great , and that there is in fact a small but * .
Soc. Proc , vol. 91 , p. 198 ( 1915 ) .
'Astrophys .
Journ vol. 47 , p. 96 1918 ) .
On the Spectra of Isotopes .
real difference in the wave-lengths of the line A. in the two varieties of lead .
The difference observed appears to be well outside the limits of experimental error , and this result at once gests that the small differences in the wave-lengths of spectrum lines may be a comparatively rapid and convenient method of determining whether samples of an elenlent from different sources are really identical in every respect , or whether they are isotopic ; the latter altelnative would be implied if differences in the spectra were found .
The present communication includes the results of a comparison of the wave-length of the line A. in the spectrum of ordinary lead , lead from Joachimsthal pitchblende residues , and lead from Ceylon thorite , and also a preliminary investigation of the wave-lengths of the principal line in the spectrum of ordinary thallium , and of thallium from pitchblende residues .
The method of comparing the wave-lengths of the lines under investigation consisted in photographing the respective interference fringes produced by means of a Fabry and Perot italon , and measuring these fringes with a micrometer .
The source of light was a small automatic arc-lamp , with a current of 1 ampere at 100 volts , burning under a bell-jar in hich the pressure was kept at a fraction of a millimetre of mercury by means of a elled Fleuss pump , which was kept working continuously .
The arc burned between a piece of the metal under examination and a button of tuugsten , the spectrum lines of the latter metal being invisible with the current used .
A lens was placed at an appropriate distance from the source of light , so as to direct a slightly convergent beam on to the plates of the etalon , the light after traversing the ( italon passed through an achromatic lens , of about 5 inches focal length , which was adjusted to bring the fringes to a focus on the slit of a large constant-deviation spectrograph .
Photographs taken in this manner show the ring system due to the italon superposed on the spectrum lines , which are made as wide as is consistent with separating the various radiations by the slit of the spectrograph .
The etalon was made by Hilger , and consisted of two half-silvered flat plates of glass , which were kept parallel , at a distance of mm. apart , by a fused silica ring , and was provided with the usual spring adjustment for securing parallelism of the plates .
The etalon used in the previous investigation ( loc. cit. ) was provided with glass studs to separate the plates , which were mm. apart .
The dispersion used in the present investigation was thus about 1* times as great , and errors due to changes in the separation of the plates with changes of temperature were reduced to a minimum by the substitution of fused silica for glass .
There is , however , a much more serious source of error than that arising Dr. T. R. Merton .
from changes of temperature ; however perfectly the plates been worked and adjusted , there is always a small change in the diameters of the rings when the beam of light traverses different portions of the etalon .
This change is too small to be noticed visually when the plates have been carefully adjusted , but is at once apparent when the photographs of the fringes are ured with the micrometer .
A slight shift of the source of light , or a wandering of the arc while it is burning , causes in this way a very small but measurable dilatation or contraction of the fringes .
This source of error can be overcome to a great extent by reducing the aperture of the ( ita.lon , which , however , introduces certain practical difficulties , and a rent method has been adopted by which this source of error and that due to changes in temperature are automatically eliminated .
The procedure adopted has been to make an alloy of each of the metals to be examined with a suitable proportion of cadmium , and to reduce all observations a selected fringe of cadmium as a standard .
cadmium thus indicate any change of path difference , whether due to temperature or shift , and the correction to be applied to other lines can be easily and accurately .
The cadmium green line A. has been used as a standard , and the line A. for a purpose which will be explained later .
The complexity of these lines is of no consequence , since the settings of the micrometer are made on the " " optical centre of gravity\ldquo ; of the , and the same remark applies to the lead line A. , which is not only encumbered by a faint satellite , but which might be also affected by overlapping with a hbouring line , though in this particular case both the satellite and the neighbouring line are of such a small intensity in comparison with the main line that their effect would scarcely be felt .
The optical difference of path of the ( is mm. ( the knowledge of its value with greater precision can easily be shown to be irrelevant ) , and the difference in wave-length , , corresponding to a shift of a whole fringe , is given by , where is the wave-length and the optical difference of path .
Thus , for the lead line A. , A. , and for the thallium line A. , A. Since measurements have already shown that any differences of wave-length are less than this amount , it is evident that any difference in wave-length will be represented by a fractionl of a fringe .
Let be the order of the innermost of the cadmium line A. and the order of the fourth ring counting from the centre , and let and be the radii of the rings respectively , and let the order of interference at the centre of the system be .
Then , since the angular diameter of the fringes is On the Spectra of Isotopes .
small , .
Thus , the order at the centre of the system for Cd A. is , and in a similar way for , say , Pb A. , the order is , both these values being determined from measurements made on the same photograph , on which both sets of fringes are recorded simultaneously .
Owing to changes of temperature or shifting of the apparatus a second exposure may different values .
If on the second exposure the value for Cd A. is it is evident that the corresponding value for Pb A. should be .
It is found most convenient in calculating the results to reduce all the values for Pb A. to a definite order for Cd A. , say .
To ' effect this when the order at the centre of the system for Cd A. is the amount to be added to the measured value for Pb A. is 5086 and when the measured value for Cd A. is the correction becomes 5086 .
Measurements of different plates are thus reduced to the same standard .
If is the value reduced to the standard for A. for one variety of lead , and the corl'esponding value for lead from another source , the difference in wave-length will be .
Measurements of the fringes of another cadmium line A. serve to identify the fringe for the line A. A readjustment of the plates of the italon might result in the innermost fringe being of the order or .
If this change occurs it can at once be detected , since it follows from the preceding argument that the fractional values of the order for A. will not agree unless they have been reduced to the same standard .
Six have been taken of each alloy and the fractional part of the order at the centre has been determined from the mean of four measurements of the radii of the rings on each plate .
The mean of the six values has been adopted , and the mean error calculated in the usual way .
Ordinary Lead.\mdash ; A pure sample of ordinary lead was melted with times its weight of cadmium , and cast into sticks in holes in a wooden block .
Lead from Radium.\mdash ; This was made into an alloy with cadmium in the same way .
The lead had been extracted from Joachimsthal pitchblende residues , and although no special precautions were taken , spectroscopic examination showed that it was comparatively pure .
Lead from Thorium.\mdash ; For this I am iridebted to Prof. Soddy .
On informing him of the results which had been obtained in the case of the lead and thallium from pitchblende , he at once very kindly sent me a pure sample of lead which he had extracted from Ceylon thorite , a mineral which contains Dr. T. R. Merton .
a large proportion of thorium , and only .
very small quantity of .uranium about 2 per cent ) .
Ordinary ) very small quantity of this element was dissolved in a few grammes of molten cadmium .
Thallium from pitchblende residues was not isolated .
It was present in much too small a proportion for any attempt to do so with the amount of residues available .
It is unnecessary to give the details of the separation of a mixture of sulphides , which , when reduced and alloyed with cadmium , showed the thallium line A. with tolerable strength .
The results are given in the sub , ioined Tables .
In Table I under cadmium and lead are given the fractional parts of the order at the centre .
They refer to the lines cadmium A. and A. The Table is divided into three sections comprising respectively the values obtained for cadmium and ordinary lead , cadmium and lead from pitchblende , and cadmium and lead from Table I. Thickness of etalon mm. ( ordinary lead ) ( lead from pitchblende ) ( thorite lead ) ( ordinary lead ) lead from pitchblende ) ( ordinary lead ) A. A. ( ordinary lead ) ( thorite lead ) A. A. On the Spectra of Isotopes .
thorite .
In the lower part of the Table are given respective values of .
reduced to the standard of the same cadmium fringe .
In the case of cadmium and ordinary lead , and cadmium and lead from pitchblende the standard is the next order greater than the order of the innermost fringe , and in the case of cadmium and thorite lead the values are reduced to the second order greater than the innermost fringe , to a readjustment of the plates between the experiments .
It has already been pointed out that a comparison of two sets of fringes leaves no doubt as to the identification of the order adopted as the standard .
In Table II are given the results obtained for ordinary thalliunl , and thallium from pitchblende ; they refer to thallium line A. Table II .
Thickness of e'talon mm. Change in corresponding to a change in of 1 A. ( ordinary thallium ) ( thallium from pitchblende ) ordinary thallium ) ( thallium from pitchblende ) A. A. It will be observed that the numbers under coluluns 2 and 4 of Table I exceed unity .
The reason of this is that there was a diffuse circle representing a fringe in the centre of the ring system ; this diffuse ring was unsuitable for measurement , and the fringes actually measured were therefore the second and fifth , instead of the first and fourth .
The differences found between On the of Isotopes .
( ordinary lead ) and ( lead from pitchblende ) agree within the limits of experimental error with the value found by Aronberg , and this confirmation of his result would seem to establish the reality of the difference .
The line in lead from pitchblende has a slightly longer wave-length than in ordinary lead , whilst the wave-length of the line in thorite lead is somewhat shorter .
They are thus arranged in the order of their atomic weights , and in the direction would be anticipated by the analogy of corresponding lines in the spectra of different metals belonging to the same group in the periodic system .
The actual magnitudes of the differeI ) are perhaps doubtful in view of some uncertainty as to the purity of the isotopes .
Sonle attempts have been made to detect a doubling of the lines in a mixture of two isotopes with a Fabry and Perot sliding interferometer , with the plates set at an appropriate distance apart , but the physical width of the lines renders the results inconclusive , and causes the fringes to disappear entirely at a difference of path at which the fringes of one isotope should lie midway between the fringes of the other ; this occurs in the case of ordinary lead .
Further experiments in this direction are contemplated , and it may be possible to show that the ] in the mixture is a doublet by another method of experiment .
It long been suspected that some of the metals which occur in pitchblende may be of radioactive origin , and the results obtained for thallium would seem to imply that the thallium in pitchblende is an isotope and prol)ably of greater atomic weight than ordinary thallium .
The results for thallium cannot , however , be given the same weight as those relating to lead .
For a orous comparison it would be necessary to isolate the pure metal , for the plates show numerous lines due to other substances , and it is possible that the measurements may be affected by a neighbouring line due to some other element , or even that there may be a small change in the wave-length of the line due to the presence of the impurities .
Burns*has found that certain manganese lines occurring as impurities in the iron arc differ in wave-length from the lines iven by a manganese salt in the carbon arc , and that some barium lines are affected in a similar way .
Displacements of this kind appear to be rare , but the possibility that the thallium line may be so affected cannot be entirely dismissed .
There is one other peculiarity to which attention may be drawn .
In the case of the thallium fringes , in which the satellite is well separated from the main line , I was at once struck by the fact that the fringes seemed sharper in the case of the thallium from pitchblende than in the case of ordinary 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 156 , p. 1976 ( 1913 ) . .
Bilham , ' Astrophys .
Journ vol. 42 , p. 469 ( 1916 ) .
The Scattering of X- and ) .
395 thallium .
Prof. Lindemann has been enough to examine these plates , and he is able to confirm the reality of the difference in rpness , but it may perhaps be due to slight valiations in pressure or the huixture of other elements , and it would not be safe to draw any conclusions from it .
The results in case of lead SGGI1 so definite that the spcctroscope may yet prove to be a most lable weapon the problem of isotopic elements .
The of b Test of the Ring of Atom .
By G. A. SCHOTT , } , D.Sc .
, Professor of Applied , University College of lVale Aber.ystwyth .
Communicated armor , Rcceived September 1 .
It is generally dnli t the cctron R Theory of on the classical electrodyna1nics and mechanics , not explain certain results of recent estigations respecting thermal radiation , photoelectric emissions , transformations between corpuscular and X-ray energies and spectrum series .
All these phenoltlen a involve the iltelaction of radiation in one form or another , not merely with electrons , but also with matter , not so much with tter iu as with material atoms , and the failure of the Electron Ring Theory to account for them may after all be due rather to our ignorance of atomic structure than to defects in the fundamental principles of the theory itself .
Moreover the hypotheses proposed for the explanation of the phenomena in question , such as the hypothesis , themselves fail to account for other phenomena , such as interference , diffraction and pol}risation , which so familiar to us that the necessity oi them afresh is apt to ] ) overlooked when a new theory is introduced .
In view of the present unsatisfactory state of our theories and the indecisive character of our experimental knowledge a crucial experimental test the Electron Ring theory is very ltlllch to be desired , especially one little of atomic structure as possible .
object of the p1esent investigation is to show that the phenomenon of the scattering of and -rays by matter a test of this kind and , moreover , if the issue of the test be favourable , supplies a means of investigatin , nentally the arrangement of the electrons in at any rate the hter atoms .
By scattering meant the redistribution in space without change of frequency of a portion VOL XCVI . .
2

