An Extract of a Letter from Dr. William Oliver , Communicated by Walter Moyle , Esq ; Torbay , the 15th .
of July , 1693 .
SIR , WHen we Cruised in the Bay of Biscay , June the 8th , and had a hundred Fathom of Water , we took a Quart Glass Bottle stopped with a large Cork , and after tied down with a strong Packthread , as we use to for Bottle Cider , or Ale , fastening our Bottle to our Plumbing-rope , and with a Lead at the end , sunk it to the bottom of the Sea , which as soon as we perceived , we drew it up again , and found the Cork quite pressed thro ' the neck of the Bottle into its cavity , and the Bottle full of Salt Sea Water .
We repeated our Experiment with another Bottle and Cork in the same manner as before , but the Cork being not sound , the Sea-Water soaked thro'it , and the Bottle was half full of Water , so the Cork remained in the mouth of the Bottle not pressed down at all .
We repeated our Experiment a third time in ninety Fathom of Water , with a very sound Cork , and much larger than the mouth of the Bottle , for we were forced to beat it in with a Hammer as far as it would go , leaving about an inch of the Cork above the mouth of the Bottle , and tied down as before , but it succeeded not so well as at first , tho ' the Cork was now pressed down into the neek , and became level with the mouth of the Bottle ; and I really believe , had we ten or twenty Fathom of Water more , 'twould have succeeded as well as our first Trial .
I send you not this as an Experiment altogether new to you , and shall insist no longer on it , but proceed to an uncommon Phenomenon I met with near this place .
Going a-shoar one day last Week to breath a little Land Air , I walked about a Mile into the Country to see a Well much talked of in these Parts , called Lay-Well , which made me more than amends for the pains I had taken to come at it .
This Well is about six Foot long , five Foot broad , and near six Inches deep , which ebbs and flows very often every hour , visibly enough ; for from high Water to low Water-mark , which I measured , I found it somewhat more than five Inches .
I could not see any augmentation above my mark when it flowed , nor fell it below my mark when it ebbed , but always kept the same distance .
I observed the Time as well as I could , but having no Minute-Watch nor Glass , I could not measure that so exactly , but really judged the flux and reflux , taken both together , was performed in about two Minutes ; nothing could be more regular , each succeeding the other as the Tides of the Sea do : The next time I go a-shoar I'le have a Minute-Glass , and be more exact .
I drank of it , and found it a pleasant , delicate , fine , soft Water , not brackish at all , which the Country People use in Fevers as their ordinary Diet-drink , which succeeds mighty well .

