The reading of Dr. EDWARD SMIITH 's Paper " 'On the Elimination of Urea and Urinary Water , in their relation to the Period of the Day , Season , Exertion , Food , and other influences acting on the Cycle of the Year , " was resumed and concluded .
( Abstract .
) This communication contains the result of two principal series of inquiries which have been prosecuted by the author , viz. one upon himself , extending from January 1860 to March 1861 , and comprehending 336 days ; and the other upon four prisoners during the month of March 1860 .
The former series included the amounts of urea , chloride of sodium , and urinary water evolved daily throughout the seasons , and their relation to period of the day , season , temperature , barometric pressure , and also to the cycle of the week , excess of food , and stomach derangement .
The author also ascertained the effect of fasting from solid food and of drinking water , tea , coffee , and alcohol , in the absence of breakfast and during a whole day 's fast .
The net weight of the body night and morning was ascertained for many weeks in the early part of 1861 , and the amount of fluid and solid food was recorded during many months of the year .
During these inquiries the author lived in a moderate and regular manner , but without any prescribed dietary , and spent a part of August and September at the sea side .
He is set .
42 , weighs 196 lbs. , and is in perfect health .
The experiments upon prisoners were made in Coldbath-fields Prison , upon four prisoners in an average state of health , but below the average weight .
The object was to determine the effect of treadwheel labour .
The prisoners worked the wheel three days , and pursued routine labour on other three days in each week , whilst they rested on the Sunday .
Their diet was good , and consisted of 20 oz. of bread , 6 oz. of cooked meat , 8 oz. of potatoes , 1 pint of cocoa , and 1 pint of gruel daily , besides a regulated quantity of water , which they drank at prescribed periods .
They were under the immediate charge of an officer , and the greatest care was taken to ensure accurate results .
On treadwheel days the urine was collected whilst the labour was performed and before breakfast was taken , and at other periods of the day , in a defined manner .
The fseces were weighed , and samples of the faeces , urine and food , were kindly analysed by Mr. Manning .
During the inquiry certain alterations of diet were made for periods of three days each , such as the administration of extra fat , tea , coffee , and alcohol , and the withdrawal of the chloride of sodium .
The analyses for urea and chloride of sodium were made by the author , and Liebig 's method was adopted .
Both series comprised more than 1200 analyses for urea and 2000 collections of urine .
The following are the principal results obtained:1 .
The daily excretion of urea varied from 298 grs. to 748'5 grs. , but on the average of the year was 519 grs. , or 2'73 grs. to each lb. of body weight .
2 .
The extreme amounts of urine were 24'5 fl. oz. and 92'6 fl. oz. , with a total average of 53 1 fl. oz. daily .
The relation to body weight was *28 fl. oz. to each lb. There were noticeable daily alterations in the quantity , or the amounts proceeded in waves or arches , or progressively increased or decreased in a striking manner through a series of days under the influence of meteorological conditions and the statics of the body .
The amounts derived from the cycle of the year are almost identical with the average of all recorded iiiquiries made for short periods , and upon various persons , and show the extreme value of including the cycle of the year .
3 .
The average quantity of urea in each oz. of urine was 9'4 grs. This quantity increased with increase of urinary water above , and decreased with decrease of that fluid below the average ; but the former in much higher proportion than the latter .
4 .
The average hourly emission of urea was on the whole day 21*7 grs. ; during the night 16-5 grs. ; before breakfast 20'3 grs. ; and before midday 25'5 grs. The decrease of the night was 24 , and of the early morning , or " basis quantity , " 6'4 per cent. , whilst the increase to mid-day was 1 7per cent. The " basis quantity " was so much influenced by the amount of urine passed on the previous day , that it was not a good standard of comparison for its own day .
The greatest increase of urea followed the breakfast , and the next followed the tea meal ; whilst there was a considerable decrease at and after the hour of the early dinner .
When an examination was made every a of an hour , a maximum increase of 54'6 grs. of urea and 21 oz. of urine per hour was found .
5 .
There was the same general relationship of urinary water to the period of the day , but there was scarcely any increased evolution of that fluid in the afternoon .
6 .
Water taken several times during a day of fasting caused the same hourly progression in the elimination of urea and urine as occurs with food , except that the changes were more rapid and the decrease at the end of the intervals was greater .
The maximum was 34.5 grs. of urea , and 11'5 oz. of urine .
7 .
When water was taken thrice before midday , and without breakfast , there was a large and rapid elimination of urea and urinary water ; but when bread , tea , coffee , and black draught were added , the elimination was retarded .
Alcohol with water , taken once before breakfast , caused within two hours an increase of 38 to 108 per cent. of urea , and 246 to 554 per cent. of urine .
8 .
With a daily dietary of bread and water , the hourly elimination was the same as with ordinary food ; but when tea and coffee were added , there was a less morning and a greater evening increase of urea ; but the amount of urine was altogether lessened .
9 .
There was the largest elimination of urea , carbonic acid , and fmeces on the Sunday ; and on that day there was much more rest , an increase of solid food , and a daily gain in weight of from 1 lb , 6 oz. to 2 Ib .
3 oz. 10 .
The weight of the body was greatest on the Sunday , and lessened through a week of regular bodily exertion , but varied as the food and exertion varied .
There were variations of several pounds recorded in each week .
11 .
The average weight of the solid ingesta during four months was 37 oz. in the week-day , and 41oz .
on the Sunday ; whilst the average weight of both fluid and solid ingesta was from 89oz .
to 95 oz. , and 95 .
oz. at the same period .
12 .
The largest average elimination of urea and urinary water occurred from May to October ( viz. 570 grs. and 480 grs. of urea ) , and the excess of the maximum over the minimum was 46 1 and 40'2 per cent. 13 .
The effect of temperature and atmospheric pressure was direct , and increased the elimination of urea and urinary water ; but the former increase was commonly found on the succeeding day .
When the two acted in the same direction , the common effect was increased ; but when they were opposed they disturbed the result .
Sudden increase of temperature lessened , and sudden cold increased the elimination of urea .
14 .
Treadwheel labour caused an increased elimination of 19 grs. of urea over that of days of routine labour , and 34 grains over that of the Sundays ; but , in addition , the rate of elimination of urea to body weight was very high ; viz. 4'39 to 4'74 grs. per lb. The labour of the treadwheel was equal to lifting 354 to 413 tons through 1 foot per day , or to walking about 29 miles daily .
Sometimes the effect upon the urea was deferred until the following day .
15 .
Unusual and additional food always increase the elimination of urea ; and , with headache and stomach derangement , there was commonly a temporary diminution in the excretion .
16 .
Tea , coffee , and alcohol , given to the prisoners , temporarily lessened the excretion of urea and urinary water , tea having the greatest effect upon the urea , and alcohol upon the urinary water ; but this effect lessened after the first or second day .
Tea increased the evolution of chloride of sodium , and alcohol decreased it proportion .
ally with the urine .
17 .
When oz. of chloride of sodium was Swithheld from the food , the same quantity was absent in the urine .
18 .
The amount of faeces was very large in the prisoners ( 8'55 oz. average ) , and contained 41'8 grs. of nitrogen daily .
It was largest on the Sunday , and the faeces then contained an increase of nitrogen equal to the quantity lost by the urine on that day .
Hence the assimilation was defective , but it was increased by labour .
The author then showed the relations of urea and carbonic acid , and their dependence upon food , season , and period of the day , and discussed the relation of urea to exertion and nutrition , showing that unless there be continued waste of the nitrogenous tissue , there cannot be any important increase of urea from exertion .
The paper was accompanied by numerous explanatory tables and curves .

