An experimental Enquiry concerning the natural Powers of Water and Wind to turn Mills , and other Machines , depending on a circular Motion .
By Mr. J. Smeaton , F. R. S. WHATI have to communicate on this subject was originally deduced from experiments made on working models , which I look upon as the best means of obtaining the outlines in mechanical enquiries .
But in this case it is very necessary to distinguish the circumstances in which a model differs from a machine in large ; otherwise a model is more apt to lead us from the truth Read May 3 , truth than towards it .
Hence the common observation , that a thing may do very well in a model , that will not answer in large .
And indeed , tho ' the utmost circumspection be used in this way , the best structure of machines cannot be fully ascertained , but by making trials with them , when made of their proper size .
It is for this reason , that , tho ' the models referred to , and the greatest part of the following experiments , were made in the years 1752 and 1753 , yet I deferred offering them to the Society , till I had an opportunity of putting the deductions made therefrom in real practice , in a variety of cases , and for various purposes ; so as to be able to assure the Society , that I have found them to answer .
PART I. Concerning UNDERSHOT WATER-WHEELS .
PLATE IV .
Fig. 1 .
is a perspective view of the machine for experiments on water-wheels ; wherein ABCD is the lower cistern , or magazine , for receiving the water , after it has quitted the wheel ; and for supplying DE the upper cistern , or head ; wherein the water being raised to any height required , by a pump , that height is shown by F G , a small rod , divided into inches and parts ; with a float at the bottom , to move the rod up and down , as the surface of the water rises and falls .
HI is a rod by which the sluice is drawn , and stopped at any height required , by means of Ka pin or peg , which fits several holes , placed in the manner of a diagonal scale , upon the face of the rod H I. GL is the upper part of the rod of the pump , for drawing the water out of the lower cistern , in order to raise and keep up the surface thereof at its desired height , in the head D E ; thereby to supply the water , expended by the aperture of the sluice .
MM is the arch and handle for working the pump , which is limited in its stroke by Na piece for stopping the handle from raising the piston too high ; that also being prevented from going too low , by meeting the bottom of the barrel .
O is the cylinder , upon which a cord winds , and which being conducted over the pullies P and Q , raises R , the scale , into which the weights are put , for trying the power of the water .
ST the two standards , which support the wheel , are made to slide up and down , in order to adjust the wheel , as near as possible , to the floor of the conduit .
W the beam which supports the scale and pullies ; this is represented as but little higher than the machine , for the sake of bringing the figure into a moderate compass , but in reality is placed 15 or 16 feet higher than the wheel .
PLATE V. Fig. 2 .
is a section of the same machine , wherein the same parts are marked with the same letters as in Fig. 1 .
Besides which XX is the pump barrel , being 5 inches diameter , and 11 inches long .
Y is the piston ; and Z the fixed valve .
GV is a cylinder of wood , fixed upon the pumprod , and reaches above the surface of the water ; this piece of wood being of such a thickness , that its section is half the area of that of the pump-barrel , will cause the surface of water to rise in the head , as much while the piston is descending , as while it is rising : and will thereby keep the gauge-rod FG more equally to its height .
Note , the arch and handle MM is here represented on a different side to what it is shown in the preceding figures , in order that its dimensions may the better appear .
aa shows one of the two wires which serve as directors to the float , in order that the gauge rod FG may be kept perpendicular ; for the same purpose also serves w , a piece of wood with a hole to receive the gauge-rod , and keep it upright .
b is the aperture of the sluice .
cca kant-board , for throwing the water more directly down the opening c d , into the lower cistern : and ce is a sloping board , for bringing back the water that is thrown up by the floats of the wheel .
Fig. 3 .
represents one end of the main axis , with a section of the moveable cylinder , marked O in the preceding figures .
ABCD is the end of the axis ; whereof the parts B and D are covered with ferrules or hoops of brass .
E is a cylinder of metal ; whereof the part marked F is the pivot or gudgeon .
cc is the section of an hollow cylinder of wood , the diameter of the interior part being somewhat larger than the cylindrical ferrule B. aa is the section of a ferrule of brass , driven into the end of the hollow cylinder , and which is adjusted to that marked B , so as to slide freely thereupon , but with as little shake as possible .
b b , d d , g g , represent the section of a brass ferrule , plate , and socket , fixed upon the other end of the hollow cylinder ; the socket dd being adjusted to slide freely upon the cylinder E , in the same manner as the ferrule aa slides upon the cylinder B : the outer end of the socket at gg is formed into a sort of button ; by pushing whereof , the hollow cylinder will move backwards and forwards , or turn round at pleasure upon the cylindrical parts of the axis B and E. e e , i i , o o , represent the section of a brass ferrule , also fixed upon the hollow cylinder : the edge of this ferrule ee is cut into teeth , in the manner of a contrate wheel ; and the edge thereof oo is cut in the manner of a ratchett .
Of consequence , when the plate bddb is pushed close to the ferrule D , the teeth of the ferrule ee will lay hold of G , a pin fixed into the axis ; by which means the hollow cylinder is made to turn along with the wheel and axis : but being drawn back by the button g g , the hollow cylinder is thereby disengaged from the pin G , and ceases turning .
Note .
The weight in the scale is prevented from running back , by a catch that plays in and lays hold of the ratchet o o. By this means the hollow cylinder upon which the cord winds , and raises the weight , is put in action and discharged therefrom instantaneously , while the wheel is in motion : for without some contrivance of this kind , it would not be easy to make this sort of experiments with any tolerable degree of exactness .
The use of the apparatus now described will be rendered more intelligible , by giving a general idea of what I had in view ; but as I shall be obliged to make use of a term which has heretofore been the cause of disputation , I think it necessary to assign the sense in which I would be uuderstood to use it ; and in which I apprehend it is used by practical Mechanicks .
The word Power , as used in practical mechanicks , I apprehend to signify the exertion of strength , gravitation , impulse , or pressure , so as to produce motion : and by means of strength , gravitation , impulse , or pressure , compounded with motion , to be capable of producing an effect : and that no effect is properly mechanical , but what requires such a kind of power to produce it .
The raising of a weight , relative to the height to which it can be raised in a given time , is the most proper measure of power ; or , in other words , if the weight raised is multiplied by the height to which it can be raised in a given time , the product is the measure of the power raising it ; and consequently , all those powers are equal , whose products , made by such multiplication , are equal : for if a power can raise twice the weight to the same height ; or the same weight to twice the height , in the same time that another power can , the first power is double the second : and if a power can raise half the weight to double the height ; or double the weight to half the height , in the same time that another can , those two powers are equal .
But note , all this is to be understood in case of slow or equable motion of the body raised ; for in quick , accelerated , or retarded motions , the vis inertiae of the matter moved will make a variation .
In comparing the effects produced by waterwheels , with the powers producing them ; or , in other words , to know what part of the original power is necessarily lost in the application , we must previously know how much of the power is spent in overcoming the friction of the machinery , and the resistance of the air ; also what is the real velocity of the water at the instant that it strikes the wheel ; and the real quantity of water expended in a given time .
From the velocity of the water , at the instant that it strikes the wheel , given ; the height of head productive of such velocity can be deduced , from acknowleged and experimented principles of hydrostatics : so that by multiplying the quantity , or weight of water , really expended in a given time , by the height of head so obtained ; which must be considered as the height from which that weight of water had descended in that given time ; we shall have a product , equal to the original power of the water ; and clear of all uncertainty , that would arise from the friction of the water , in passing small apertures ; and from all doubts , arising from the different measure of spouting waters , assigned by different authors .
On the other hand , the sum of the weights raised by the action of this water , and of the weight required to overcome the friction and resistance of the machine , multiplied by the height to which the weight can be raised in the time given , the product will be equal to the effect of that power ; and the proportion of the two products will be the proportion of the power to the effect : so that by loading the wheel with different weights successively , we shall be able to determine at what particular load , and velocity of the wheel , the effect is a maximum .
The manner of finding the real velocity of the water , at the instant of its striking the wheel ; the manner of finding the value of the friction , resistance , &amp;c. in any given case ; and the manner of finding the real expense of water , so far as concerns the following experiments , without having recourse to theory ; being matters upon which the following determinations depend , it will be necessary to explain them .
To determine the Velocity of the Water striking the Wheel .
It has already been mentioned , in the references to the figures , that weights are raised by a cord winding round a cylindrical part of the axis .
First , then , let the wheel be put in motion by the water , but without any weights in the scale ; and let the number of turns in a minute be 60 : now it is evident , that was the wheel free from friction and resistance , that 60 times the circumference of the wheel would be the space through which the water would have moved in a minute ; with that velocity wherewith it struck the wheel : but the wheel being encumbered by friction and resistance , and yet moving 60 turns in a minute , it is plain , that the velocity of the water must have been greater than 60 circumferences before it met with the wheel .
Let now the cord be wound round the cylinder , but contrary to the usual way , and put a weight in the scale ; the weight so disposed ( which may be called the counter-weight ) will endeavour to assist the wheel in turning the same away , as it would have been turned by the water : put therefore as much weight into the scale as , without any water , will cause it to turn somewhat faster than at the rate of 60 turns in a minute ; suppose 63 : let it now be tried again by the water , assisted by the weight ; the wheel therefore will now make more than 60 turns ; suppose 64 : hence we conclude the water still exerts some power in giving motion to the wheel .
Let the weight be again increased , so as to make 641/ 2 turns in a minute without water : let it once more be tried with water as before ; and suppose it now to make the same number of turns with water as without .
viz. 641/ 2 : hence it is evident , that in this case the wheel makes the same number of turns in a minute , as it would do if the wheel had no friction or resistance at all ; because the weight is equivalent thereto ; for was it too little , the water would accelerate the wheel beyond the weight ; and if too great , retard it ; so that the water now becomes a regulator of the wheel 's motion ; and the velocity of its circumference becomes a measure of the velocity of the water .
In like manner , in seeking the greatest product , or maximum of effect ; having found by trials what weight gives the greatest product , by simply multiplying the weight in the scale by the number of turns of the wheel , find what weight in the scale , when the cord is on the contrary side of the cylinder , will cause the wheel to make the same number of turns the same way , without water ; it is evident that this weight will be nearly equal to all friction and resistance taken together ; and consequently , that the weight in the scale , with twice * the weight of the scale , added to the back or counter-weight , will be equal to the weight that could have been raised , supposing the machine had been without friction or resistance ; and which multiplied by the height to which it was raised , the product will be the greatest effect of that power .
The quantity of water expended is found thus : The pump made use of for replenishing the head with water was so carefully made , that no water escaping back by the leathers , it delivered the same quantity of water at every stroke , whether worked quick or slow ; and as the length of the stroke was limited , consequently the value of one stroke ( or on account of more exactness 12 strokes ) was known , by the height to which the water was thereby raised in the head ; which being of a regular figure was easily measured .
The sluice , by which the water was drawn upon the wheel , was made to stop at certain heights by a peg ; so that when the peg was in the same hole , * The weight of the scale makes part of the weight both ways .
the aperture for the effluent water was the same .
Hence the quantity of water expended by any given head , and opening of the sluice , may be obtained : for by observing how many strokes a minute was sufficient to keep up the surface of the water at the given height , and multiplying the number of strokes by the value of each , the water expended by any given aperture and head in a given time will be given .
These things will be further illustrated by going over the calculus of one set of experiments .
Specimen of a Set of Experiments .
The sluice drawn to the 1st hole .
The water above the floor of the sluice 30 Inches .
Strokes of the pump in a minute 391/ 2 The head raised by 12 strokes 21 Inches .
The wheel raised the empty scale , and made turns in a minute 80 With a counter-weight of 1 lb. 8 oz. it made 85 D~ tried with water 86 No Weight .
Turns in a min. Product .
lb. oz. 140 45 180 250 42 210 360 361/ 4 2171/ 2 470 333/ 4 2361/ 4 580 30 240 maximum .
690 261/ 2 2381/ 2 7 10 0 22 220 8 11 0 161/ 2 1811/ 2 9 12 * ceased working .
* N. B. When the wheel moves so slow as not to rid the water so fast as supplied by the sluice , the accumulated water falls back upon the aperture , and the wheel immediately ceases moving .
Counter-weight , for 30 turns without water , 2 oz. in the scale .
N. B. The area of the head was 105,8 square inches .
Weight of the empty scale and pulley , 10 oz. Circumference of the cylinder , 9 inches .
Circumference of the water-wheel , 75 ditto .
Reduction of the above Set of Experiments .
The circumference of the wheel , 75 inches , multiplied by 86 turns , gives 6450 inches for the velocity of the water in a minute ; 1/ 60 of which will be the velocity in a second , equal to 107,5 inches , or 8,96 feet , which is due to a head of 15 inches * ; and this we call the virtual or effective head .
The area of the head being 105,8 inches , this multiplied by the weight of water of the inch cubic , equal to the decimal,579 of the ounce avoirdupois , gives 61,26 ounces for the weight of as much water , as is contained in the head , upon 1 inch in depth , 1/ 16 of which is 3,83 pounds ; this multiplied by the depth 21 inches , gives 80,43 lb. for the value of 12 strokes ; and by proportion , 391/ 2 ( the number made in a minute ) will give 264,7 lb. the weight of water expended in a minute .
Now as 264,7 lb. of water may be considered as having descended through a space of 15 inches in a minute , the product of these two numbers 3970 will express the power of the water to produce mechanical effects ; which were as follows .
* This is determined upon the common maxim of hydrostatics , that the velocity of spouting waters is equal to the velocity that an heavy body would acquire in falling from the height of the reservoir ; and is proved by the rising of jets to the height of their reservoirs nearly .
The velocity of the wheel at the maximum , as appears above , was 30 turns a minute ; which multiplied by 9 inches , the circumference of the cylinder , makes 270 inches ; but as the scale was hung by a pulley and double line , the weight was only raised half of this , viz. 135 inches .
The weight in the scale at the maximum 8 lb. 0 oz. Weight of the scale and pulley 0 10 Counterweight , scale , and pulley 0 12 Sum of the resistance 96 or lb. 9,375 .
Now as 9,375 lb. is raised 135 inches , these two numbers being multiplied together , the product is 1266 , which expresses the effect produced at a maximum : so that the proportion of the power to the effect is as 3970 : 1266 , or as 10 : 3,18 .
But tho ' this is the greatest single effect producible from the power mentioned , by the impulse of the water upon an undershot wheel ; yet , as the whole power of the water is not exhausted thereby , this will not be the true ratio between the power of the water , and the sum of all the effects producible therefrom : for as the water must necessarily leave the wheel with a velocity equal to the wheel 's circumference , it is plain that some part of the power of the water must remain after quitting the wheel .
The velocity of the wheel at the maximum is 30 turns a minute ; and consequently its circumference moves at the rate of 3,123 feet a second , which answers to a head 1,82 inches ; this being multiplied by the expense of water in a minute , viz. 264,7 lb. produces 481 for the power remaining in the water after it has passed the wheel : this being therefore deducted from the original power 3970 , leaves 3489 , which is that part of the power which is spent in producing the effect 1266 ; and consequently the part of the power spent in producing the effect , is to the greatest effect producible thereby as 3489 : 1266 : : 10 : 3,62 , or as 11 to 4 .
The velocity of the water striking the wheel has been determined to be equal to 86 circumferences of the wheel per minute , and the velocity of the wheel at the maximum to be 30 ; the velocity of the water will therefore be to that of the wheel as 86 to 30 , or as 10 to 3,5 , or as 20 to 7 .
The load at the maximum has been shown to be equal to 9 lb. 6 oz. and that the wheel ceased moving with 12 lb. in the scale : to which if the weight of the scale is added , viz. 10 ounces * , the proportion will be nearly as 3 to 4 between the load at the maximum and that by which the wheel is stopped .
It is somewhat remarkable , that tho ' the velocity of the wheel in relation to the water turns out greater than 1/ 3 of the velocity of the the water , yet the impulse of the water in the case of a maximum is more than double of what is assigned by theory ; that is , instead of 4/ 9 of the column , it is nearly equal to the whole column .
It must be remembred , therefore , that , in the present case , the wheel was not placed in an open river , where the natural current , after it has communicated its impulse to the float , has room on all sides to escape , as the theory supposes ; but in a conduit or * The resistance of the air in this case ceases , and the friction is not added , as 12 lb. in the scale was sufficient to stop the wheel after it had been in full motion ; and therefore somewhat more than a counterbalance to the impulse of the water .
race , to which the float being adapted , the water cannot otherwise escape than by moving along with the wheel .
It is observable , that a wheel working in this manner , as soon as the water meets the float , receiving a sudden check , it rises up against the float , like a wave against a fixed object ; insomuch that when the sheet of water is not a quarter of an inch thick before it meets the float , yet this sheet will act upon the whole surface of a float , whose height is 3 inches ; and consequently was the float no higher than the thickness of the sheet of water , as the theory also supposes , a great part of the force would have been lost , by the water 's dashing over the float * .
In further confirmation of what is already delivered , I have adjoined the following table , containing the result of 27 sets of experiments , made and reduced in the manner above specified .
What remains of the theory of undershot wheels , will naturally follow from a comparison of the different experiments together .
* Since the above was wrote , I find that Professor Euler , in the Berlin Acts for the year 1748 , in a memoir entitled , Maxims pour aranger le plus avantageusment les machines destinees a elever de l'eau par le moyen de pompes , page 192 .
~ 9 .
has the following passage ; which seems to be the more remarkable , as I do n't find he has given any demonstration of the principle therein contained , either from theory or experiment ; or has made any use thereof in his calculations on this subject.- ` ` Cependant dans ce cas puisque l'eau est reflechie , &amp; qu'elle decoule sir les aubes verse les cotes , elle y exerce encore un force particuliere , dont l'effet de l'impulsion sera augment ; &amp; experience jointe a la theory a fait voir que dans ce cas , la force est presque double : de sort qu'il faut prendre le double de le section du fil d'eau pour ce qui repond dans ce cas a le surface des aubes , pourvu qu'elles soient assez larges pour recevoir ce supplement de force .
Car si les aubes netoient plus larges que le fil , on trait d'eau on no devroit prendre que no simple section , tout comme dans le premier cas , on l'aube tout entire est pappee par l'eau .
' ' Hence therefore , in comparing different experiments , as some fall short , and others exceed the maximum , and all agree therewith , as near as can be expected , in an affair where so many different circumstances are concerned ; we may , according to the laws of reasoning by induction , conclude the maxim true ; viz. that the effects are nearly as the quantity of water expended .
Maxim II .
That the expense of water being the same , the effect will be nearly as the height of the virtual or effective head .
This also will appear by comparing the contents of columns 4 , 8 , and 10 , in any of the sets of experiments .
Example 1st , of No. 2 .
and No. 24 .
viz. No. Virt .
Head .
Expense .
Effect .
2 15 264,7 1266 24 4,7 262 385 Now as the expenses are not quite equal , we must proportion one of the effects accordingly : thus by maxim 1st , 262 : 264,7 : : 385 : 389 and by max .
2d , 15 : 4,7 : : 1266 : 397 Difference 8 The effect therefore of No. 24 .
compared with No. 2 .
is less than according to the present maxim in the ratio of 49 : 50 .
The foregoing , and two other similar examples , are comprised in the following Table .
Maxim 4th .
The aperture being the same , the effect will be nearly as the cube of the velocity of the water .
This also will appear by comparing the contents of columns 3 , 8 , and 10 ; as for Example 1st , of No. 1 .
and No. 10 , viz. No. Turns .
Expense .
Effect .
1 88 275 1411 10 42 114 117 Lemma .
It must here be observed , that if water passes out of an aperture , in the same section , but with different velocities ; the expense will be proportional to the velocity ; and therefore conversely , if the expense is not proportional to the velocity , the section of the water is not the same .
Now comparing the water discharged with the turns of No. 1 .
and 10 , we shall have 88 : 42 : : 275 : 131,2 ; but the water discharged by No. 10 .
is only 114 lb. therefore , tho ' the sluice was drawn to the same height in No. 10 .
as in No. 1 .
yet the section of the water passing out , was less in No. 10 .
than No. 1 .
in the proportion of 114 to 131,2 ; consequently had the effective aperture or section of the water been the same in No. 10 .
as in No. 1 .
so that 131,2 lb. of water had been discharged instead of 114 , the effect would have been increased in the same proportion ; that is , by the Lemma , 88 : 42 : : 275 : 131,2 by maxim 1st , 114 : 131,2 : : 117 : 134,5 833 : 423 and by max .
4th , : : 1411 : 153,5 681472 : 74088 Difference 19 of 20 to 15 ; but as the effect approaches nearest to the ratio of 20 to 15 , or of 4 to 3 , when the power is greatest , whether by increase of velocity , or quantity of water , this seems to be the most applicable to large works : but as the load that a wheel ought to have , in order to work to the best advantage , can be assigned , by knowing the effect it ought to produce , and the velocity it ought to have in producing it ; the exact knowledge of the greatest load it will bear , is of the less consequence in practice .
It is to be noted , that in all the examples under the three last of the four preceding maxims , the effect of the lesser power falls short of its due proportion to the greater , when compared by its maxim ; except the last example of maxim 4th : and hence , if the experiments are taken strictly , we must infer , that the effects increase and diminish in an higher ratio than those maxims suppose : but as the deviation is not very considerable , the greatest being about 1-8th of the quantity in question ; and as it is not easy to make experiments of so compounded a nature with absolute precision ; we may rather suppose , that the lesser power is attended with some friction , or works under some disadvantage , which has not been duly accounted for , and therefore we may conclude , that these maxims will hold very nearly , when applied to works in large .
After the experiments above mentioned were tried , the wheel , which had originally 24 floats , was reduced to twelve ; which caused a diminution in the effect , on account of a greater quantity of water escaping between the floats and the floor ; but a cirR 2 cular cular sweep being adapted thereto , of such a length , that one float entered the curve before the preceding one quitted it , the effect came so near to the former , as not to give hopes of advancing it by increasing the number of floats beyond 24 in this particular wheel .
PART II .
Concerning OVERSHOTWHEEL S. IN the former part of this essay , we have considered the impulse of a confined stream , acting on Undershot Wheels .
We now proceed to examine the power and application of water , when acting by its gravity on Overshot Wheels .
Read May 24 , 1759 .
In reasoning without experiment , one might be led to imagine , that however different the mode of application is ; yet that whenever the same quantity of water descends thro ' the same perpendicular space , that the natural effective power would be equal ; supposing the machinery free from friction , equally calculated to receive the full effect of the power , and to make the most of it : for if we suppose the height of a column of water to be 30 inches , and resting upon a base or aperture of one inch square ; every cubic inch of water that departs therefrom will acquire the same velocity or momentum , from the uniform pressure of 30 cubic inches above it , that one cubic inch let fall from the top will acquire in falling down to the level of the aperture ; viz. such a velocity as in a contrary direction would carry it to the level from whence it fell ; * one would therefore suppose , that a cubic inch of water , let fall thro ' a space of 30 inches , and there impinging upon another body , would be capable of producing an equal effect by collision , as if the same cubic inch had descended thro ' the same space with a flower motion , and produced its effects gradually : for in both cases gravity acts upon an equal quantity of matter , thro ' an equal space ~ ; and consequently , that whatever was the ratio between the power and effect in undershot wheels , the same would obtain in overshot , and indeed in all others : yet , however conclusive this reasoning may seem , it will appear , in the course of the following deductions , that the effect of the gravity of descending bodies is very different from the effect of the stroke of such as are non-elastic , tho ' generated by an equal mechanical power .
The alterations in the machinery already described , to accommodate the same for experiments on overshot wheels , were principally as follows .
PLATE V. Fig. 2 .
The sluice Ib being shut down , the rod HI was unscrewed and taken off .
The undershot water-wheel was taken off the axis , and instead thereof an overshot wheel of the same * This is a consequence of the rising of jetts to the height of their reservoirs nearly .
~ Gravity , it is true , acts a longer space of time upon the body that descends slow than upon that which falls quick ; but this cannot occasion the difference in the effect : for an elastic body falling thro ' the same space in the same time , will , by collision upon another elastic body , rebound nearly to the height from which it fell ; or , by communicating its motion , cause an equal one to ascend to the same height .
diameter was put into its place .
Note , This wheel was two inches in the shroud or depth of the bucket ; the number of the buckets was 36 .
The standards S and T , Fig. 1 .
were raised half an inch , so that the bottom of the wheel might be clear of stagnant water .
A trunk , for bringing the water upon the wheel , was fixed according to the dotted lines f g , Fig. 2 .
The aperture was adjusted by a shuttle h i , which also closed up the outer end of the trunk , when the water was to be stopped .
Fig. 3 .
The ratchet o o , not being of one piece of metal with the ferrule e e , ii ( tho ' so described before , to prevent unnecessary distinctions ) , was with its catch turned the contrary side ; consequently the moveable barrel would do its office equally , notwithstanding the water-wheel , when at work , moved the contrary way .
Reduction of the preceding Specimen .
In these experiments the head being 6 inches , and the height of the wheel 24 inches , the whole descent will be 30 inches : the expense of water was 14 1/ 2 strokes of the pump in a minute , whereof 12 contained 80 lb. ; therefore the water expended in a minute was 96 2/ 3 lb. which , multiplied by 30 inches , gives the power = 2900 .
If we take the 20th experiment for the maximum , we shall have 20 3/ 4 turns in a minute , each of which raised the weight 4 1/ 2 inches , that is , 93,37 inches in a minute .
The weight in the scale was 19 lb , the weight of the scale 10 1/ 2 oz. ; the counter-weight 3 oz. in the scale , which , with the weight of the scale 10 1/ 2 oz. makes in the whole 20 1/ 2 lb. which is the whole resistance or load : this , multiplied by 93,37 inches , makes 1914 for the effect .
The ratio therefore of the power and effect will be as 2900 : 1914 , or as 10 : 6,6 , or as 3 : 2 nearly .
But if we compute the power from the height of the wheel only , we shall have 96 2/ 3 lb. multiplied by 24 inches = 2320 for the power , and this will be to the effect as 2320 : 1914 , or as 10 : 82 , or as 5 : 4 nearly .
The reduction of this specimen is set down in No. 9 .
of the following Table ; and the rest were deducted from a similar set of experiments , reduced in the same manner .
raised that height , in order to be in a condition of producing the same effect a second time .
The ratio 's between the powers so estimated , and the effects at the maximum deduced from the several sets of experiments , are exhibited at one view in column 9 .
of Table II .
; and from hence it appears , that those ratio 's differ from that of 10 to 7,6 to that of 10 : 5,2 , that is , nearly from 4 : 3 to 4 : 2 .
In those experiments where the heads of water and quantities expended are least , the proportion is nearly as 4 : 3 ; but where the heads and quantities are greatest , it approaches nearer to that of 4 : 2 ; and by a medium of the whole , the ratio is that of 3 : 2 nearly .
We have seen before , in our observations upon the effects of undershot wheels , that the general ratio of the power to the effect , when greatest , was 3 : 1 ; the effect therefore of overshot wheels , under the same circumstances of quantity and fall , is at a medium double to that of the undershot : and , as a consequence thereof , that nonelastic bodies , when acting by their impulse or collision , communicate only a part of their original power ; the other part being spent in changing their figure in consequence of the stroke .
The powers of water computed from the height of the wheel only , compared with the effects , as in column 10 .
appear to observe a more constant ratio : for if we take the medium of each class , which is set down in column 11 , we shall find the extremes to differ no more than from the ratio of 10 : 8,1 to that of 10 : 8,5 ; and as the second term of the ratio gradually increases from 8,1 to 8,5 , by an increase of head from 3 inches to 11 , the excess of 8,5 above 8 , 1 is to be imputed to the superior impulse of the water at the head of 11 inches above that of 3 inches : so that if we reduce 8 , 1 to 8 , on account of the impulse of the 3 inch head , we shall have the ratio of the power , computed upon the height of the wheel only , to the effect at a maximum as 10 : 8 , or as 5 : 4 nearly : and from the equality of the ratio between power and effect , subsisting where the constructions are similar , we must infer , that the effects , as well as the powers , are as the quantities of water and perpendicular heights multiplied together respectively .
II .
Concerning the most proper Height of the Wheel in proportion to the whole Descent .
We have already seen , from the preceding observation , that the effect of the same quantity of water , descending thro ' the same perpendicular space , is double , when acting by its gravity upon an overshot wheel , to what the same produces when acting by its impulse upon an undershot .
It also appears , that by increasing the head from 3 inches to 11 , that is , the whole descent , from 27 inches to 35 , or in the ratio of 7 to 9 nearly , the effect is advanced no more than in the ratio of 8 , 1 to 8,4 , that is , as 7 : 7,26 ; and consequently the increase of effect as not 1-7th of the increase of perpendicular height .
Hence it follows , that the higher the wheel is in proportion to the whole descent , the greater will be the effect ; because it depends less upon the impulse of the head , and more upon the gravity of the water in the buckets : and if we consider how obliquely the water issuing from the head must strike the buckets , we shall not be at a loss to account for the little adS 2 vantage vantage that arises from the impulse thereof ; and shall immediately see of how little consequence this impulse is to the effect of an overshot wheel .
However , as every thing has its limits , so has this : for thus much is desirable , that the water should have somewhat greater velocity , than the circumference of the wheel , in coming thereon ; otherwise the wheel will not only be retarded , by the buckets striking the water , but thereby dashing a part of it over , so much of the power is lost .
The velocity that the circumference of the wheel ought to have , being known by the following deductions , the head requisite to give the water its proper velocity is easily computed from the common rules of hydrostatics ; and will be found much less than what is generally practised .
III .
Concerning the Velocity of the Circumference of the Wheel , in order to produce the greatest Effect .
If a body is let fall freely from the surface of the head to the bottom of the descent , it will take a certain time in falling ; and in this case the whole action of gravity is spent in giving the body a certain velocity : but if this body in falling is made to act upon some other body , so as to produce a mechanical effect , the falling body will be retarded ; because a part of the action of gravity is then spent in producing the effect , and the remainder only giving motion to the falling body : and therefore the slower a body descends , the greater will be the portion of the action of gravity applicable to the producing a mechanical effect ; and in consequence the greater that effect may be .
If a stream of water falls into the bucket of an overshot wheel , it is there retained till the wheel by moving round discharges it : of consequence the slower the wheel moves , the more water each bucket will receive : so that what is lost in speed , is gained by the pressure of a greater quantity of water acting in the buckets at once : and , if considered only in this light , the mechanical power of an overshot wheel to produce effects will be equal , whether it moves quick or slow : but if we attend to what has been just now observed of the falling body , it will appear that so much of the action of gravity , as is employed in giving the wheel and water therein a greater velocity , must be subtracted from its pressure upon the buckets ; so that , tho ' the product made by multiplying the number of cubic inches of water acting in the wheel at once by its velocity will be the same in all cases ; yet , as each cubic inch , when the velocity is greater does not press so much upon the bucket as when it is less , the power of the water to produce effects will be greater in the less velocity than in the greater : and hence we are led to this general rule , that , caeteris paribus , the less the velocity of the wheel , the greater will be the effect thereof .
A confirmation of this doctrine , together with the limits it is subject to in practice , may be deduced from the foregoing specimen of a set of experiments .
From these experiments it appears , that when the wheel made about 20 turns in a minute , the effect was , near upon , the greatest .
When it made 30 turns , the effect was diminished about 1/ 20 part ; but that when it made 40 , it was dimimished about 1/ 4 ; when it made less than 18 1/ 4 , its motion was irregular ; and when it was loaded so as not to admit its making 18 turns , the wheel was overpowered by its load .
It is an advantage in practice , that the velocity of the wheel should not be diminished further than what will procure some solid advantage in point of power ; because , caeteris paribus , as the motion is slower , the buckets must be made larger ; and the wheel being more loaded with water , the stress upon every part of the work will be increased in proportion : The best velocity for practice therefore will be such , as when the wheel here used made about 30 turns in a minute ; that is , when the velocity of the circumference is a little more than 3 feet in a second .
Experience confirms , that this velocity of 3 feet in a second is applicable to the highest overshot wheels , as well as the lowest ; and all other parts of the work being properly adapted thereto , will produce very nearly the greatest effect possible : however this also is certain from experience , that high wheels may deviate further from this rule , before they will lose their power , by a given aliquot part of the whole , than low ones can be admitted to do ; for a wheel of 24 feet high may move at the rate of six feet per second without losing any considerable part of its power * ; and , on the other hand , I have seen a wheel of 33 feet high , that has moved very steadily and well with a velocity but little exceeding 2 feet .
* The 24 feet wheel going at 6 feet in a second seems owing to the small proportion that the head ( requisite to give the water the proper velocity of the wheel ) bears to the whole height .
IV .
Concerning the Load for an Overshot Wheel , in order that it may produce a Maximum .
The maximum load for an overshot wheel , is that which reduces the circumferences of the wheel to its proper velocity ; and this will be known , by dividing the effect it ought to produce in a given time by the space intended to be described by the circumference of the wheel in the same time : the quotient will be the resistance overcome at the circumference of the wheel ; and is equal to the load required , the friction and resistance of the machinery included .
V. Concerning the greatest possible Velocity of an Overshot Wheel .
The greatest velocity that the circumference of an overshot wheel is capable of , depends jointly upon the diameter or height of the wheel , and the velocity of falling bodies ; for it is plain that the velocity of the circumference can never be greater , than to describe a semi-circumference , while a body let fall from the top of the wheel will descend thro ' its diameter ; nor indeed quite so great , as a body descending thro ' the same perpendicular space cannot perform the same in so small a time when passing thro ' a semi-circle , as would be done in a perpendicular line .
Thus , if a wheel is 16 feet 1 inch high , a body will fall thro ' the diameter in one second : this wheel therefore can never arrive at a velocity equal to the making one turn in two seconds ; but , in reality , an overshot wheel can never come near this velocity ; for when it acquires a certain speed , the the greatest part of the water is prevented from entering the buckets ; and the rest , at a certain point of its descent , is thrown out again by the centrifugal force .
This appears to have been the case in the three first experiments of the foregoing specimen ; but as the velocity , when this begins to happen , depends upon the form of the buckets , as well as other circumstances , the utmost velocity of overshot wheels is not to be determined generally : and , indeed , it is the less necessary in practice , as it is in this circumstance incapable of producing any mechanical effect , for reasons already given .
VI .
Concerning the greatest Load that an Overshot Wheel can overcome .
The greatest load an overshot wheel will overcome , considered abstractedly , is unlimited or infinite : for as the buckets may be of any given capacity , the more the wheel is loaded , the slower it turns ; but the slower it turns , the more will the buckets be filled with water ; and consequently tho ' the diameter of the wheel , and quantity of water expended , are both limited , yet no resistance can be assigned , which it is not able to overcome : but in practice we always meet with something that prevents our getting into infinitesimals ; for when we really go to work to build a wheel , the buckets must necessarily be of some given capacity ; and consequently such a resistance will stop the wheel , as is equal to the effort of all the buckets in one semi-circumference filled with water .
The structure of the buckets being given , the quantity of this effort may be assigned ; but is not of much consequence to the practice , as in this case also the wheel loses its power ; for tho ' here is the exertion of gravity upon a given quantity of water , yet being prevented by a counterbalance from moving , is capable of producing no mechanical effect , according to our definition .
But , in reality , an overshot wheel generally ceases to be useful before it is loaded to that pitch ; for when it meets with such a resistance as to diminish its velocity to a certain degree , its motion becomes irregular ; yet this never happens till the velocity of the circumference is less than 2 feet per second , where the resistance is equable , as appears not only from the preceding specimen , but from experiments on larger wheels .
SCHOLIU M. Having now examined the different effects of the power of water , when acting by its impulse , and by its weight , under the titles of undershot and overshot wheels ; we might naturally proceed to examine the effects when the impulse and weight are combined , as in the several kinds of breast-wheels , &amp;c. but , what has been already delivered being carefully attended to , the application of the same principles in these mixed cases will be easy , and reduce what I have to say on this head into a narrow compass : for all kinds of wheels where the water cannot descend thro ' a given space , unless the wheel moves therewith , are to be considered of the nature of an overshot wheel , according to the perpendicular height that the water descends from ; and all those that receive the impulse or shock of the water , whether in an horizontal , perpendicular , or oblique direction , are to be considered as undershots .
And therefore a wheel , which the water strikes at a certain point below the surface of the head , and after that descends in the arch of a circle , pressing by its gravity upon the wheel ; the effect of such a wheel will be equal to the effect of an undershot , whose head is equal to the difference of level between the surface of the water in the reservoir and the point where it strikes the wheel , added to that of an overshot , whose height is equal to the difference of level , between the point where it strikes the wheel and the level of the tail-water .
It is here supposed , that the wheel receives the shock of the water at right angles to its radii ; and that the velocity of its circumference is properly adapted to receive the utmost advantage of both these powers ; otherwise a reduction must be made on that account .
Many obvious and considerable improvements upon the common practice naturally offer themselves , from a due consideration of the principles here established , as well as many popular errors show themselves in view : but as my present purpose extends no farther than the laying down such general rules as will be found to answer in practice , I leave the particular application to the intelligent artist , and to the curious in these matters .
PART III .
On the Construction and Effects of WINDMIL LS AIL S. IN trying experiments on windmillsails , the wind itself is too uncertain to answer the purpose : we must therefore have recourse to an artificial wind .
This Read 31 May &amp; This may be done two ways ; either by causing the air to move against the machine , or the machine to move against the air .
To cause the air to move against the machine , in a sufficient volumn , with steadiness and the requisite velocity , is not easily put in practice : To carry the machine forward in a right line against the air , would require a larger room than I could conveniently meet with .
What I found most practicable , therefore , was , to carry the axis , whereon the sails were to be fixed , progressively round in the circumference of a large circle .
Upon this idea *a machine was constructed , as follows .
PLATE VI .
Fig. 1 .
ABC is a pyramidical frame for supporting the moving parts .
DE is an upright axis , whereon is framed F G , an arm for carrying the sails at a proper distance from the center of the upright axis .
* Some years ago Mr. Rouse , an ingenious gentleman of Harborough in Leicestershire , set about trying experiments on the velocity of the wind , and force thereof upon plain surfaces and windmill-sails : and much about the same time Mr. Ellicott contrived a machine for the use of the late celebrated Mr. B. Robins , for trying the resistance of plain surfaces moving thro ' the air .
The machines of both these gentlemen were much alike , tho ' at that time totally unacquainted with each other 's inquiries .
But it often happens , that when two persons think justly upon the same subject , their experiments are alike .
This machine was also built upon the same idea as the foregoing ; but differed in having the hand for the first mover , with a pendulum for its regulator , instead of a weight , as in the former ; which was certainly best for the purposes of measuring the impulse of the wind , or resistance of plains : but the latter is more applicable to experiments on windmill-sails ; because every change of position of the same sails will occasion their meeting the air with a different velocity , tho ' urged by the same weight .
H is a barrel upon the upright axis , whereon is wound a cord ; which , being drawn by the hand , gives a circular motion to the axis , and to the arm F G ; and thereby carries the axis of the sails in the circumference of a circle , whose radius is D I , causing thereby the sails to strike the air , and turn round upon their own axis .
At L is fixed the end of a small line , which passing through the pullies MN O , terminates upon a small cylinder or barrel upon the axis of the sails , and , by winding thereon , raises P the scale , wherein the weights are placed for trying the power of the sails .
This scale , moving up and down in the direction of the upright axis , receives no disturbance from the circular motion .
QR two parallel pillars standing upon the arm F G , for the purpose of supporting and keeping steady the scale P ; which is kept from swinging by means of ST two small chains , which hang loosely round the two pillars .
W is a weight , for bringing the center of gravity of the moveable part of the machine into the center of motion of the axis D E. VX is a pendulum , composed of two balls of lead , which are moveable upon a wooden rod , and thereby can be so adjusted , as to vibrate in any time required .
This pendulum hangs upon a cylindrical wire , whereon it vibrates , as on a rolling axis .
Y is a perforated table for supporting the axis of the pendulum .
Note , The pendulum being so adjusted , as to make two vibrations in the time that the arm FG is intended to make one turn ; the pendulum being set a vibrating , the experimenter pulls by the cord Z , with sufficient force to make each half revolution of the arm to correspond with each vibration , as equal as possible , during the number of vibrations that the experiment is intended to be continued .
A little practice renders it easy to give motion thereto with all the regularity that is necessary .
Specimen of a Set of Experiments .
Radius of the sails 21 inches Length of ditto in the cloth 18 Breadth of ditto 5,6 * Angle at the extremity 10 degrees Ditto at the greatest inclination 25 20 turns of the sails raised the weight 11 , 3 inches Velocity of the center of the sails , in the circumference of the great circle , in a6 ft. 0 in .
second Continuance of the experiment 52 seconds .
No. Wt .
in the scale .
Turns .
Product .
10 lb.108 0 26 85 510 36 1/ 2 81 526 1/ 2 47 78 546 57 1/ 2 73 547 1/ 2 maximm 68 65 520 7900 * In all the following experiments the angle of the sails is accounted from the plain of their motion ; that is , when they stand at right angles to the axis , their angle is denoted 0~ , this notation being agreeable to the language of practitioners , who call the angle so denoted , the weather of the sail ; which they denominate greater or less , according to the quantity of this angle .
N. B. The weight of the scale and pulley was 3 oz. ; and that 1 oz. suspended upon one of the radii , at 12 1/ 3 iches from the center of the axis , just overcame the friction scale and load of 7 1/ 2 lb. ; and placed at 14 1/ 29/ 0 inches , overcame the same resistances with 9 lb. in the scale .
Reduction of the preceding Specimen .
No. 5 .
being taken for the maximum , the weight in the scale was 7 lb. 8 oz. which , with the weight of the scale and pulley 3 oz. makes 7 lb. 11 oz. equal to 123 oz. ; this added to the friction of the machinery , the sum is the whole resistance * .
The friction of the machinery is thus deduced : Since 20 turns of the sails raised the weight 11,3 inches , with a double line , the radius of the cylinder will be.18 of an inch ; but had the weight been raised by a single line , the radius of the cylinder being half the former , viz..09 , the resistance would have been the same : we shall therefore have this analogy ; as half the radius of the cylinder , is to the length of the arm where the small weight was applied ; so is the weight applied to the arm , to a fourth weight , which is equivalent to the sum of the whole resistance together ; that is,.09 : 12,5 : : 1 oz. : 139 oz. : this exceeds 123 oz. the weight in the scale , by 16 oz. or 1 lb. which is equivalent to the friction ; and which , added to the above weight of 7 lb. 11 oz. makes 8 lb. 11 oz. = 8,69 lb. for the sum of the whole re* The resistance of the air is not taken into the account of resistance , because it is inseparable from the application of the power .
sistance ; and this , multiplied by 73 turns , makes a product of 634 , which may be called the representative of the effect produced .
In like manner , if the weight 9 lb. which caused the sails to rest after being in motion , be augmented by the weight of the scale and its relative friction , it will become 10,37 lb. The result of this specimen is set down in No. 12 .
of Table III .
and the result of every other set of experiments therein contained were made and reduced in the same manner .
Observations and Deductions from the preceding Experiments .
I. Concerning the best Form and Position of Windmill-Sails .
In Table III .
No. 1 .
is contained the result of a set of experiments upon sails set at the angle which the celebrated Mons. Parint , and succeeding geometricians for many years , held to be the best ; viz. those whose planes make an angle 55~ nearly with the axis ; the complement whereof , or angle that the plane of the sail makes with the plane of their motion , will therefore be 35~ , as set down in col .
2 .
and 3 .
Now if we multiply their number of turns by the weight they lifted , when working to the greatest advantage , as set down in columns 5 .
and 6 .
and compare this product ( col .
8 .
) with the other products contained in the same column , instead of being the greatest , it turns out the least of all the rest .
But if we set the angle of the same planes at somewhat less than half the former , or at any angle from 15~ to 18~ , as in No. 3 .
and 4 .
that is , from 72~ to 75~ with the axis , the product will be increased in the ratio of 31 : 45 ; and this is the angle most commonly made use of by practitioners , when the surfaces of the sails are planes .
If nothing more was intended than to determine the most efficacious angle to make a mill acquire motion from a state of rest , or to prevent it from passing into rest from a state of motion , we shall find the position of No. 1 .
the best ; for if we consult col .
7 .
which contains the least weights , that would make the sails pass from motion to rest , we shall find that of No. 1 .
( relative to the quantity of cloth ) the greatest of all .
But if the sails are intended , with given dimensions , to produce the greatest effect possible in a given time , we must entirely reject those of No. 1 .
and , if we are confined to the use of planes , conform ourselves to some angle between No. 3 .
and 4 .
that is , not less than 72~ , or greater than 75~ , with the axis .
The late celebrated Mr. Maclaurin has judiciously distinguished between the action of the wind upon a sail at rest , and a sail in motion ; and , in consequence , as the motion is more rapid near the extremities than towards the center , that the angle of the different parts of the sail , as they recede from the center , should be varied .
For this purpose he has furnished us with the following theorem * .
` ` Suppose the velocity of the wind to be represented by a , and the velocity of any given part of the sail to be denoted by c ; then the effort of the wind upon that part of the sail will be greatest when the tangent of the angle , in which the wind strikes it , is to radius as ~2+ 9cc/ 4aa + 3c/ 2a to 1 .
' ' This theorem then assigns the law , by which the angle is to be varied according to the velocity of each part of the sail to the wind : but as it is left undetermined what velocity any one given part of the sail ought to have in respect to the wind , the angle that any one part of the sail ought to have , is left undetermined also ; so that we are still at a loss for the proper data to apply the theorem .
However , being willing to avail myself thereof , and considering that any angle from 15~ to 18~ was best suited to a plane , and of consequence the best * Maclaurin 's account of Sir Isaac Newton 's philosophical discoveries , p. 176 , art .
29 .
mean angle , I made the sail , at the middle distance between the center and the extremity , to stand at an angle of 15~ 41 with the plane of the motion ; in which case the velocity of that part of the sail , when loaded to a maximum , would be equal to that of the wind , or c= a. This being determined , the rest were inclined according to the theorem , as follows : Angle with Angle of the axis .
weather .
1/ 6 c= 1/ 3 a 63~ 26~ 26~ 34~ Parts of the 2/ 6 c= 2/ 3 a 69 54 20 6 radius from 1/ 2 c=a 74 19 15 41 middle the center .
2/ 3 c= 11/ 3 a 77 20 12 40 5/ 6 c= 13/ 2 a 79 27 10 33 1c= 2a 81 090 extremity .
The result hereof was according to No. 5 .
being nearly the same as the plane sails , in their best position : but being turned round in their sockets , so that every part of each sail stood at an angle of 3~ , and afterwards of 6~ , greater than before , that is , their extremities being moved from 9~ to 12~ and 15~ , the products were advanced to 518 and 527 respectively .
Now from the small difference between those two products , we may conclude , that they were nearly in their best position , according to No. 7 .
or some angle between that and No. 6 : but from these , as well as the plane sails and others , we may also conclude , that a variation in the angle of a degree or two makes very little difference in the effect , when the angle is near upon the best .
It is to be observed , that a sail inclined by the preceding rule will expose a convex surface to the wind : whereas the Dutch , and all our modern mill-builders , tho ' they make the angle to diminish , in receding from the center towards the extremity , yet constantly do it in such manner , as that the surface of the sail may be concave towards the wind .
In this manner the sails made use of in No. 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , and 13 .
were constructed ; the middle of the sail making an angle with the extreme bar of 12~ ; and the greatest angle ( which was about 1/ 3 of the radius from the centre ) of 15~ therewith .
Those sails being tried in various positions , the best appears to be that of No. 11 .
where the extremities stood at an angle of 7~ 1/ 2 with the plane of motion , the product being 639 : greater than that of those made by the theorem in the ratio of 9 : 11 , and double to that of No. 1 .
; and this was the greatest product that could be procured without an augmentation of surface .
Hence it appears , that when the wind falls upon a concave surface , it is an advantage to the power of the whole , tho ' every part , taken separately , should not be disposed to the best advantage * .
Having thus obtained the best position of the sails , or manner of weathering , as it is called by workmen , the next point was to try what advantage could be * By several trials in large I have found the following angles to answer as well as any .
The radius is supposed to be divided into 6 parts and 1-6th , reckoning from the center , is called 1 , the extremity being denoted 6 .
Angle with Angle with the plane No. the axis .
of motion .
1 72~ 18~ 2 71 19 3 72 18 middle .
4 74 16 5 77 1/ 2 12 1/ 2 6 83 7 extremity .
made by an addition of surface upon the same radius .
For this purpose , the sails made use of had the same weather as those No. 8 .
to 13 , with an addition to the leading side of each of a triangular cloth , whose height was equal to the height of the sail , and whose base was equal to half the breadth : of consequence the increase of surface upon the whole was one fourth part , or as 4 : 5 .
Those sails , by being turned round in their sockets , were tried in four different positions , specified in No. 14 , 15 , 16 , and 17 ; from whence it appears , that the best was when every part of the sail made a greater angle by 2~ 1/ 2 , with the plane of the motion , than those without the addition , as appears by No. 15 .
the product being 820 : this exceeds 639 more than in the ratio of 4 : 5 , or that of the increase of cloth .
Hence it appears , that a broader sail requires a greater angle ; and that when the sail is broader at the extremity , than near the center , this shape is more advantageous than that of a parallelogram * .
Many have imagined , that the more sail , the greater the advantage , and have therefore proposed to fill up the whole area : and by making each sail a sector of an ellipsis , according to Monsieur Parint , to intercept the whole cylinder of wind , and thereby to produce the greatest effect possible .
* The figure and proportion of the enlarged sails , which I have found best to answer in large , are represented in the figure , Plate VI .
where the extreme bar is 1-3d of the radius ( or whip , as it is called by the workmen ) , and is divided by the whip in the proportion of 3 to 5 .
The triangular or leading sail is covered with board from the point downwards 1-3d of its height , the rest with cloth as usual .
The angles of weather in the preceding note are best for the enlarged sails also ; for in practice it is found , that the sails had better have too little than too much weather .
We have therefore proceeded to inquire , how far the effect could be increased by a further enlargement of the surface , upon the same radius of which No. 18 and 19 are specimens .
The surfaces indeed were not made planes , and set at an angle of 35~ , as Parint proposed ; because , from No. 1 .
we learn , that this position has nothing to do , when we intend them to work to the greatest advantage .
We therefore gave them such an angle as the preceding experiments indicated for such sort of sails , viz. 12~ at the extremity , and 22~ for the greatest weather .
By No. 18 we have the product 1059 , greater than No. 15 .
in the ratio of 7 : 9 ; but then the augmentation of cloth is almost 7 : 12 .
By No. 19 .
we have the product 1165 , that is greater than No. 15 .
as 7 : 10 ; but the augmentation of cloth is nearly as 7 : 16 ; consequently had the same quantity of cloth as in No. 18 .
been disposed in a figure similar to that of No. 15 , instead of the product 1059 , we should have had the product 1386 ; and in No. 19 , instead of the product 1165 , we should have had a product of 1860 ; as will be further made appear in the course of the following deductions .
Hence it appears , that beyond a certain degree , the more the area is crowded with sail , the less effect is produced in proportion to the surface : and by pursuing the experiments still further , I found , that tho ' in No. 19 .
the surface of all the sails together were not more than 7-8ths of the circular area containing them , yet a further addition rather diminished than increased the effect .
So that when the whole cylinder of wind is intercepted , it does not then produce the greatest effect for want of proper interstices to escape .
It is certainly desirable , that the sails of windmills should be as short as possible ; but at the same time it is equally desirable , that the quantity of cloth should be the least that may be , to avoid damage by sudden squalls of wind .
The best structure , therefore , for large mills , is that where the quantity of cloth is the greatest , in a given circle , that can be : on this condition , that the effect holds out in proportion to the quantity of cloth ; for otherwise the effect can be augmented in a given degree by a lesser increase of cloth upon a larger radius , than would be required , if the cloth was increased upon the same radius .
The most useful figure therefore for practice , is that of No. 9 .
or 10 .
as has been experienced upon several mills in large .
II .
Concerning the ratio between the velotity of windmill sails unloaded , and their velocity when loaded to a maximum .
Those ratio 's , as they turned out in experiments upon different kinds of sails , and with different inclinations ( the velocity of the wind being the same ) are contained in column 10 of tab .
III .
where the extremes differ from the ratio of 10 : 7,7 to that of 10 : 5,8 ; but the most general ratio of the whole will be nearly as 3 : 2 .
This ratio also agrees sufficiently near with experiments where the velocity of the wind was different , as in those contained in tab .
IV .
col .
13 .
in which the ratio 's differ from 10 : 6,9 to that of 10 : 5,9 .
However , it appears in general , that where the power is greater , whether by an enlargement of surface , or a greater velocity of the wind , that the second term of the ratio is less .
III .
Concerning the ratio between the greatest load that the sails will bear without stopping , or what is nearly the same thing , between the least load that will stop the sails , and the load at the maximum .
Those ratio 's for different kinds of sails and inclinations , are collected in col .
11 .
tab .
III .
where the extremes differ from the ratio of 10 : 6 to that of 10 : 9,2 ; but taking in those sets of experiments only , where the sails respectively answered best , the ratio 's will be confined between that of 10 : 8 and of 10 : 9 ; and at a medium about 10 : 8,3 or of 6 : 5 .
This ratio also agrees nearly with those in col .
14 of tab .
IV .
However it appears , upon the whole , that in those instances , where the angle of the sails or quantity of cloth were greatest , that the second term of the ratio was less .
IV .
Concerning the effects of sails , according to the different velocity of the wind .
Maxim .
1 .
The velocity of windmill sails , whether unloaded , or loaded so as to produce a maximum , is nearly as the velocity of the wind , their shape and position being the same .
This appears by comparing together the respective numbers of columns 4 and 5 , tab .
IV .
wherein those of numbers 2 , 4 , and 6 , ought to be double of numbers 1 , 3 , and 5 : but as the deviation is no-where greater than what may be imputed to the inaccuracy of the experiments themselves , and hold good exactly in numbers 3 and 4 ; which sets were deduced from the medium of a number of experiments , carefully repeated the same day , and on that account are most to be depended upon ; we may therefore conclude the maxim true .
Maxim 2 .
The load at the maximum is nearly , but somewhat less than , as the square of the velocity of the wind , the shape and position of the sails being the same .
This appears by comparing together the numbers in col .
6 .
tab .
IV .
wherein those of numbers 2 , 4 , and 6 ( as the velocity is double ) , ought to be quadruple of those of numbers 1 , 3 , and 5 ; instead of which they fall short , number 2 by 1/ 14 , number 4 by 1/ 19 , and number 6 by 1/ 13 part of the whole .
The greatest of those deviations is not more considerable than might be imputed to the unavoidable errors in making the experiments : but as those experiments , as well as those of the greatest load , all deviate the same way ; and also coincide with some experiments communicated to me by Mr. Rouse upon the resistance of planes ; I am led to suppose a small deviation , whereby the load falls short of the squares of the velocity ; and since the experiments No 3 and 4 .
are most to be depended upon , we must conclude , that when the velocity is double , the load falls short of its due proportion by 1/ 19 , or , for the sake of a round number , by about 1/ 20 part of the whole .
Maxim 3d .
The effects of the same sails at a maximum are nearly , but somewhat less than , as the cubes of the velocity of the wind .
It has already been proved , Maxim 1st , that the velocity of sails at the maximum , is nearly as the velocity of the wind ; and by Maxim 2d , that the load at the maximum is nearly as the square of the same velocity : if those two maximums would hold precisely , it would be a consequence that the effect would be in a triplicate ratio thereof : how this agrees with experiment will appear by comparing together the products in col .
8 .
of tab .
4 .
wherein those of No 2 .
4 .
and 6 .
( the velocity of the wind being double ) ought to be octuple of those of No 1 .
3 .
and 5 .
instead of which they fall short , No 2 .
by 1/ 7 No 4 .
by 1/ 20 , and No 6 .
by 1/ 6 part of the whole .
Now , if we rely on No 3 .
and 4 .
as the turns of the sails are as the velocity of the wind ; and since the load of the maximum falls short of the square of the velocity by about 1/ 20 part of the whole : the product made by the multiplication of the turns into the load , must also fall short of the triplicate ratio by about 1/ 20 part of the whole product .
Maxim 4th .
The load of the same sails at the maximum is nearly as the squares , and their effect as the cubes , of their number of turns in a given time .
This maxim may be esteemed a consequence of the three preceding ; for if the turns of the sails are as the velocity of the wind , whatever quantities are in any given ratio of the velocity of the wind , will be in the same given ratio of the turns of the sails : and therefore , if the load at the maximum is as the square , or the effect as the cube , of the velocity of the wind , wanting 1/ 20 part when the velocity is double ; the load at the maximum will also be as the square , and the effect as the cube , of the number of turns of the sails in a given time , wanting in like manner 1/ 20 part when the number of turns are double in the same time .
In the present case , if we compare the loads at the maximum col .
6 .
with the squares of the number of turns col .
5 .
of No 1 and 2 .
5 and 6 .
or the products of the same numbers col .
8 .
with the cubes of the number of turns col .
5 .
instead of falling short , as No 3 and 4 .
they exceed those ratios : but as the sets of experiments No 1 and 2 .
5 and 6 .
are not to be esteemed of equal authority with those of No 3 and 4 .
we must not rely upon them further than to observe , that in comparing the gross effects of large machines , the direct proportion of the squares and cubes respectively , will hold as near as the effects themselves can be observed ; and therefore fore be sufficient for practical estimation , without any allowance .
Maxim 5th .
When sails are loaded so as to produce a maximum at a given velocity , and the velocity of the wind increases , the load continuing the same ; 1stly , The increase of effect , when the increase of the velocity of the wind is small , will be nearly as the squares of those velocities : 2dly , When the velocity of the wind is double , the effects will be nearly as 10 : 271/ 2 : But , 3dly , When the velocities compared , are more than double of that where the given load produces a maximum , the effects increase nearly in a simple ratio of the velocity of the wind .
It has already been proved , maxim 1st and 2d , that when the velocity of the wind is increased , the turns of the sails will increase in the same proportion , even when opposed by a load as the square of the velocity ; and therefore if wanting the opposition of an increase of load , as the square of the velocity , the turns of the sails will again be increased in a simple ratio of the velocity of the wind on that account also ; that is , the load continuing the same , the turns of the sails in a given time will be as the square of the velocity of the wind ; and the effect , being in this case as the turns of the sails , will be as the square of the velocity of the wind also ; but this must be understood only of the first increments of the velocity of the wind : for , 2dly , As the sails will never acquire above a given velocity in relation to the wind , tho ' the load was diminished to nothing ; when the load continues the same , the more the velocity of the wind increases ( tho ' the effect will continue to increase ) yet the more it will fall short of the square of the velocity of the wind ; so that when the velocity of the wind is double , the increase of effect , instead of being as 1 : 4 , according to the squares , it turns out as 10 : 271/ 2 , as thus appears .
In tab .
4 .
col .
9 .
the loads of No 2 , 4 , and 6 .
are the same as the maximum loads in col .
6 .
of No 1 , 3 , and 5 .
The number of turns of the fails with those loads , when the velocity of the wind is double , are set down in col .
10 .
and the products of their multiplification in col .
11 : those being compared with the products of No 1 , 3 , and 5 .
col .
8 .
furnish the ratios set down in col .
12 .
which at a medium ( due regard being had to No 3 and 4 .
) will be nearly as 10 : 271/ 2 .
3dly .
The load continuing the same , grows more and more inconsiderable , respecting the power of the wind as it increases in velocity ; so that the turns of the sails grow nearer and nearer a coincidence with their turns unloaded ; that is , nearer and nearer to the simple ratio of the velocity of the wind .
When the velocity of the wind is double , the turns of the sails , when loaded to a maximum , will be double also ; but , unloaded , will be no more than triple , by deduction 2d : and therefore the product could not have increased beyond the ratio of 10 : 30 ( instead of 10 : 271/ 2 ) even supposing the sails not to have been retarded at all by carrying the maximum load for the half velocity .
Hence we see , that when the velocity of the wind exceeds the double of that , where a constant load produces a maximum , that the increase of effect , which follows the increase of the velocity of the sails , will be nearly as the velocity city of the wind , and ultimately in that ratio precisely .
Hence also we see that windmills , such as the different species for raising water for drainage , &amp;c. lose much of their full effect , when acting against one invariable opposition .
V. Concerning the effects of sails of different magnitudes , the structure and position being similar , and the velocity of the wind the same .
Maxim 6 .
In sails of a similar figure and position , the number of turns in a given time will be reciprocally as the radius or length of the sail .
The extreme bar having the same inclination to the plain of its motion , and to the wind ; its velocity at a maximum will always be in a given ratio to the velocity of the wind ; and therefore , whatever be the radius , the absolute velocity of the extremity of the sail will be the same : and this will hold good respecting any other bar , whose inclination is the same , at a proportionable distance from the center ; it therefore follows , that the extremity of all similar sails , with the same wind , will have the same absolute velocity ; and therefore take a space of time to perform one revolution in proportion to the radius ; or , which is the same thing , the number of revolutions in the same given time , will be reciprocally as the length of the sail .
Maxim 7 .
The load at a maximum that sails of a similar figure and position will overcome , at a given distance from the center of motion , will be as the cube of the radius .
Geometry informs us , that in similar figures the surfaces are as the squares of their similar sides ; of consequence the quantity of cloth will be as the square of the radius : also in similar figures and positions , the impulse of the wind , upon every similar section of the cloth , will be in proportion to the surface of that section ; and consequently , the impulse of the wind upon the whole , will be as the surface of the whole : but as the distance of every similar section , from the center of motion , will be as the radius ; the distance of the center of power of the whole , from the center of motion , will be as the radius also ; that is , the lever by which the power acts , will be as the radius : as therefore the impulse of the wind , respecting the quantity of cloth , is as the square of the radius , and the lever , by which it acts , as the radius simply ; it follows , that the load which the sails will overcome , at a given distance from the center , will be as the cube of the radius .
Maxim 8 .
The effect of sails of similar figure and position , are as the square of the radius .
By maxim 6 .
it is proved , that the number of revolutions made in a given time , are as the radius inversely .
Under maxim 7 .
it appears , that the length of the lever , by which the power acts , is as the radius directly ; therefore these equal and opposite ratios destroy one another : but as in similar figures the quantity of cloth is as the square of the radius , and the action of the wind is in proportion to the quantity of cloth , as also appears under maxim 7 ; it follows that the effect is as the square of the radius .
COROL .
1 .
Hence it follows , that augmenting the length of the sail , without augmenting the quantity of cloth , does is not increase the power ; because what is gained by the length of the lever , is lost by the slowness of the rotation .
COROL .
2 .
If fails are increased in length , the breadth remaining the same , the effect will be as the radius .
VI .
Concerning the velocity of the extremities of windmill sails , in respect to the velocity of the wind .
Maxim 9 .
The velocity of the extremities of Dutch sails , as well as of the enlarged sails , in all their usual positions when unloaded , or even loaded to a maximum , are considerably quicker than the velocity of the wind .
The Dutch sails unloaded , as in Tab. 3 .
No 8 .
made 120 revolutions in 52~ : the diameter of the sails being 3 feet 6 inches , the velocity of their extremities will be 25,4 feet in a second ; but the velocity of the wind producing it , being 6 feet in the same time , we shall have 6 : 25,4::1 : 4 , 2 ; in this case therefore , the velocity of their extremities was 4 , 2 times greater than that of the wind .
In like manner , the relative velocity of the wind , to the extremities of the same sails , when loaded to a maximum , making then 93 turns in 52~ , will be found to be as 1 : 3 , 3 ; or 3,3 times quicker than that of the wind .
The following table contains 6 examples of Dutch sails , and 4 examples of the enlarged sails , in different positions , but with the constant velocity of the wind of 6 feet in a second , from table 3 : and also 6 examples of Dutch sails in different positions , with different velocities of the wind , from table 4 .
TABLE V. containing the ratio of the velocity of the extremities of windmill sails to the velocity of the wind .
No No of Tab. III and IV .
Angle at the Extremity .
Velocity of the wind in a second .
Ratio of the velocity of the wind and extremities of the sails .
unloaded .
loaded .
180o6f0 in 1 : 4 , 2 1 : 3,3 29360 1 : 4 , 2 1 : 2 , 8 3 10 560 1 : 2 , 75 4 11 7 1/ 2 60 1 : 4 , 1 : 2 , 7 5 12 10 60 1 : 3 , 8 1 : 2 , 6 6 13 12 60 1 : 3,5 1 : 2,3 7 14 71/ 2 60 1 : 4 , 3 1 : 2,6 8 15 10 60 1 : 4 , 1 1 : 2 , 6 9 16 12 60 1 : 4 , 1 : 2 , 3 10 17 15 60 1 : 3 , 35 1 : 2,2 11 154 41/ 2 1 : 4 , 1 2,8 12 2589 1 : 4 , 31 2 , 6 13 3 71/ 2 4 41/ 2 1 : 2 , 8 14 4 71/ 2 89 1 : 2 , 7 15 5 10 4 41/ 2 1 : 3 , 81 2,6 16 6 10 89 1 : 3,4 1 : 23 123456 From Tab. IV .
From Table III .
It appears from the preceding collection of examples , that when the extremities of the Dutch sails are parallel to the plane of motion , or at right angles to the wind , and to the axis , as they are made according to the common practice in England , that their velocity , unloaded , is above 4 times , and loaded to a maximum , above 3 times greater than that of the wind : but that when the Dutch sails , or enlarged sails , are in their best positions , their velocity unloaded is 4 times , and loaded to a maximum , at a medium the Dutch sails are 2 , 7 , and the enlarged sails 2,6 times greater than the velocity of the wind .
Hence we are furnished with a method of knowing the velocity of the wind , from observing the velocity of the windmill sails ; for knowing the radius , and the number of turns in a minute , we shall have the velocity of the extremities ; which , divided by the following divisors , will give the velocity of the wind .
Dutch sails in their common position unloaded 4.2 loaded -3.3 Dutch sails in their best position -unloaded 4.0 loaded -2.7 Enlarged sails in their best position unloaded 4.0 loaded2.6 From the above divisors there arises the following compendiums ; supposing the radius to be 30 feet , which is the most usual length in this country , and the mill to be loaded to a maximum , as is usually the case with corn mills ; for every 3 turns in a minute , of the Dutch sails in their common position , the wind will move at the rate of 2 miles an hour ; for every 5 turns in a minute , of the Dutch sails in their best position , the wind moves 4 miles an hour ; and for every 6 turns in a minute , of the enlarged sails in their best position , the wind will move 5 miles an hour .
The following table , which was communicated to me by my friend Mr. Rouse , and which appears to have been constructed with great care , from a considerable number of facts and experiments , and which having relation to the subject of this article ; I here insert it as he sent it to me : but at the same time must observe , that the evidence for those numbers where the velocity of the wind exceeds 50 miles an hour , do not seem of equal authority with those of 50 miles an hour and under .
It is also to be observed , that the numbers in col .
3 .
are calculated according to the square of the velocity of the wind , which , in moderate velocities , from what has been before observed , will hold very nearly .
TABLE VI .
containing the velocity and force of wind , according to their common appellations .
Velocity of the Wind .
Miles in one Feet in one Perpendicular force Common appellations of the force of winds .
Hour .
second .
on one foot area in pounds averdupois .
1 1,47,005 Hardly perceptible .
2 2,93,020 Just perceptible .
3 4,40,044 4 5,87,079 Gentle pleasant wind .
5 7,33,123 10 14,67,492 Pleasant brisk gale .
15 22,00 1,107 20 29,34 1,968 Very brisk .
25 36,67 3,075 30 44,01 4,429 High winds .
35 51,34 6,027 40 58,68 7,873 Very high .
45 66,01 9,963 50 73,35 12,300 A storm or tempest .
60 88,02 17,715 A great storm .
80 117,36 31,490 An hurricane .
100 146,70 49,200 An hurircane that tears up trees , carries buildings before it , &amp;c. 123 VII .
concerning the absolute effect , produced by a given velocity of the wind , upon sails of a given magnitude and construction .
It has been observed by practitioners , that in mills with Dutch sails in the common position , that when they make about 13 turns in a minute , they then work at a mean rate : that is , by the compendiums in the last article , when the velocity of the wind is 82/ 3 miles an hour , or 122/ 3 feet in a second ; which , in common phrase , would be called a fresh gale .
The experiments set down in Tab. IV .
No 4 .
were tried with a wind , whose velocity was 83/ 4 feet in a second ; consequently had those experiments been tried with a wind , whose velocity was 12~3 feet in a second , the effect , by maxim 3d , would have been 3 times greater ; because the cube of 122/ 3 is 3 times greater than that of 83/ 4 .
From Tab. IV .
No 4 .
we find , that the sails , when the velocity of the wind was 83/ 4 feet in a second , made 130 revolutions in a minute , with a load of 17,25 ~ .
From the measures of the machine , preceding the specimen of a set of experiments , we find , that 20 revolutions of the sails raised the scale and weight 11,3 inches : 130 revolutions will therefore raise the scale 73,45 inches , which , multiplied by 17,52 ~ , makes a product of 1287 , for the effect of the Dutch sails in their best position ; that is , when the velocity of the wind is 83/ 4 feet in a second : this product therefore multiplied by three , will give 3861 for the effect of the same sails , when the velocity of the wind is 122/ 3 feet in a second .
Desaguliers makes the utmost power of a man , when working so as to be able to hold it for some hours , to be equal to that of raising an hogshead of water 10 feet high in a minute .
Now , an hogshead consisting of 63 ale gallons , being reduced into pounds averdupois , and the height into inches ; the product made by multiplying those two numbers will be 76800 ; which is 19 times greater than the product of the sails last-mentioned , at 12 1/ 2 feet in a second : therefore , by maxim 8th , if we multiply the square root of 19 , that is 4,46 , by 21 inches , the length of the sail producing the effect 3861 , we shall have 93,66 inches , or 7 feet 92/ 3 inches for the radius of a Dutch sail in its best position , whose mean power shall be equal to that of a man : but if they are in their common position , their length must be increased in the ratio of the square root of 442 to that of 639 , as thus appears ; The ratio of the maximum products of No 8 and 11 .
Tab. III .
are as 442 : 639 ; but by maxim 8 , the effects of sails of different radii are as the square of the radii ; consequently the the square roots of the products or effects , are as the radii simply ; and therefore as the square root of 442 is to that of 639 ; so is 93,66 to 112,66 ; or 9 feet 42/ 3 inches .
If the sails are of the enlarged kind , then from Tab. III .
No 11 and 1 5 .
we shall have the square root of 820 to that of 639::93,66 : 82 , 8 inches , or 6 feet 103/ 4 inches : so that in round numbers we shall have the radius of a sail , of a similar figure to their respective models , whose mean power shall be equal to that of a man ; The Dutch sails in their common position 91/ 2 feet .
The Dutch sails in their best position 8 The enlarged sails in their best position 7 Suppose now the radius of a sail to be 30 feet , and to be constructed upon the model of the enlarged sails , No 14 or 15 .
Tab. III .
dividing 30 by 7 we , shall have 4 , 28 , the square of which is 18 , 3 ; and this , according to maxim 7 , will be the relative power of a sail of 30 feet , to one of 7 feet ; that is , when working at a mean rate , the 30 feet sail will be equal to the power of 18,3 men , or of 32/ 3 horses ; reckoning 5 men to a horse : whereas the effect of the common Dutch sails , of the same length , being less in the proportion of 820 : 442 , will be scarce equal to the power of 10 men , or of 2 horses .
That these computations are not merely speculative , but will nearly hold good when applied to works in large , I have had an opportunity of verifying : for in a mill with the enlarged sails of 30 feet , applied to the crushing of rape seed , by means of two runners upon the edge , for making oil ; I observed , that when the sails made 11 turns in a minute , in which case the velocity of the wind was about 13 feet in a second , according to article 6th , that the runners then made 7 turns in a minute : whereas 2 horses , applied to the same 2 runners , scarcely worked them at the rate of 31/ 2 turns in the same time .
Lastly , with regard to the real superiority of the enlarged sails , above the Dutch sails as commonly made , it has sufficiently appeared , not only in those cases where they have been applied to new mills , but where they have been substituted in the place of the others .
VIII .
Concerning horizontal windmills and waterwheels , with oblique vanes .
Observations upon the effects of common windmills with oblique vanes , have led many to imagine , that could the vanes be brought to receive the direct impulse , like a ship sailing before the wind , it would be a very great improvement in point of power : while others attending to the extraordinary and even unexpected effects of oblique vanes , have been led to imagine , that oblique vanes applied to water-mills , would as much exceed the common water wheels , as the vertical windmills are found to have exceeded all attempts towards an horizontal one .
Both these notions , but especially the first , have so plausible an appearance , that of late years there has seldom been wanting those , who have assiduously employed themselves to bring to bear designs of this kind : it may not therefore be unacceptable to endeavour to set this matter in a clear light .
PLATE VI .
fig 2d .
Let AB be the section of a plain , upon which let the wind blow in the direction C D , with such a velocity as to describe a given space B E , in a given time ( suppose I second ) ; and let AB be moved parallel to itself , in the direction C D. Now , if the plane AB moves with the same velocity as the wind ; that is , if the point B moves thro ' the space BE in the same time that a particle of air would move thro ' the same space ; it is plain that , in this case , there can be no pressure or impulse of the wind upon the plane : but if the plane moves slower than the wind , in the same direction , so that the point B may move to F , while a particle of air , setting out from B at the same instant , would move to E , then BF will express the velocity of the plane ; and the relative velocity of the wind and plane will be expressed by the line F E. Let the ratio of FE to BE be given ( suppose 2 : 3 .
) ; let the line AB represent the impulse of the wind upon the plane A B , when acting with its whole velocity B E ; but , when acting with its relative velocity F E , let its impulse be denoted by some aliquot part of A B , as for instance 4/ 9 A B : then will 4/ 9 of the parallelogram AF represent the mechanical power of the plane ; that is , 4/ 9 ABx 1/ 3 B E. 2dly , Let IN be the section of a plane , inclined in such a manner , that the base IK of the rectangle triangle IKN may be equal to A B ; and the perpendicular N K=B E ; let the plane IN be struck by the wind , in the direction L M , perpendicular to I K : then , according to the known rules of oblique forces , the impulse of the wind upon the plain I N , tending to move it according to the direction L M , or N K , will be denoted by the base I K ; and that part of the impulse , tending to move it according to the direction I K , will be expressed by the perpendicular N K. Let the plane IN be moveable in the direction of IK only ; that is , the point I in the direction of I K , and the point N in the direction N Q , parallel thereto .
Now it is evident , that if the point I moves thro ' the line I K , while a particle of air , setting forwards at the same time from the point N , moves thro ' the line N K , they will both arrive at the point K at the same time ; and consequently , in this case also , there can be no pressure or impulse of the particle of the air upon the plane I N. Now let IO be to IK as BF to B E ; and let the plane IN move at such a rate , that the point I may arrive at O , and acquire the position I Q , in the same time that a particle of wind would move thro ' the space N K : as OQ is parallel to I N ; ( by the properties of similar triangles ) it will cut NK in the point P , in such a manner , that N P=B F , and P K=F E : hence it appears , that the plane I N , by acquiring the position O Q , withdraws itself from the action of the wind , by the same space N P , that the plane AB does by acquiring the position F G ; and consequently , from the equality of PK to F E , the relative impulse of the wind P K , upon the plane O Q , will be equal to the relative impulse of the wind F E , upon the plane F G : and since the impulse of the wind upon A B , with the relative velocity F E , in the direction B E , is represented by 4/ 9 A B ; the relative impulse of the wind upon the plane I N , in the direction N K , will in like manner be represented by 4/ 9 I K ; and the impulse of the wind upon the plane I N , with the relative velocity P K , in the direction I K , will be represented by 4/ 9 N K : and consequently the mechanical power of the plane I N , in the direction I K , will be 4/ 9 the parallellogram I Q : that is 1/ 3 IKx 4/ 9 N K : that is , from the equality of I K=A B and N K=B E , we shall have 4/ 9 I Q=1/ 3 ABx 4/ 9 BE =4/ 9 ABx 1/ 3 B E=4/ 9 of the area of the parallellogram A F. Hence we deduce this GENERALPROPOSITIO N , That all planes , however situated , that intercept the same section of the wind , and having the same relative velocity , in regard to the wind , when reduced into the same direction , have equal powers to produce mechanical effects .
For what is lost by the obliquity of the impulse , is gained by the velocity of the motion .
Hence it appears , that an oblique sail is under no disadvantage in respect of power , compared with a direct one ; except what arises from a diminution of its breadth , in respect to the section of the wind : the breadth IN being by obliquity reduced to I K. The disadvantage of horizontal windmills therefore does not consist in this ; that each sail , when directly exposed to the wind , is capable of a less power , than an oblique one of the same dimensions ; but that in an horizontal windmill , little more than one sail can be acting at once : whereas in the common windmill , all the four act together : and therefore , supposing each vane of an horizontal windmill , of the same dimensions as each vane of the vertical , it is manifest the power of a vertical mill with four sails , will be four times greater than the power of the horizontal one , let its number of vanes be what it will : this disadvantage arises from the nature of the thing ; but if we consider the further disadvantage , that arises from the difficulty of getting the sails back again against the wind , &amp;c. we need not wonder if this kind of mill is in reality found to have not above 1/ 8 or 1/ 10 of the power of the common sort ; as has appeared in some attempts of this kind .
In like manner , as little improvement is to be expected from water-mills with oblique vanes : for the power of the same section of a stream of water , is not greater when acting upon an oblique vane , than when acting upon a direct one : and any advantage that can be made by intercepting a greater section , which sometimes may be done in the case of an open river , will be counterballanced by the superior resistance , that such vanes would meet with by moving at right angles to the current : whereas the common floats always move with the water nearly in the same direction .
Here it may reasonably be asked , that since our geometrical demonstration is general , and proves , that one angle of obliquity is as good as another ; why in our experiments it appears , that there is a certain angle which is to be preferred to all the rest ?
It is to be observed , that if the breadth of the sail IN is given , the greater the angle KI N , and the less will be the base I K : that is , the section of wind intersected , will be less : on the other hand , the more acute the angle KI N , the less will be the perpendicular K N : that is , the impulse of the wind , in the direction IK being less , and the velocity of the sail greater ; the resistance of the medium will be greater also .
Hence therefore , as there is a diminution of the section of the wind intercepted on one hand , and an increase of resistance on the other , there is some angle , where the disadvantage arising from these causes upon the whole is the least of all ; but as the disadvantage arising from resistance is more of a physical than geometrical consideration , the true angle will best be assigned by experiment .
SCHOLIU M. In trying the experiments contained in Tab. III .
and IV .
the different specific gravity of the air , which is undoubtedly different at different times , will cause a difference in the load , proportional to the difference of its specific gravity , tho ' its velocity remains the same ; and a variation of specific gravity may arise not only from a variation of the weight of the whole column , but also by the difference of heat of the air concerned in the experiment , and possibly of other causes ; yet the irregularities that might arise from a difference of specific gravity were thought to be too small to be perceivable , till after the principal experiments were made , and their effects compared ; from which , as well as succeeding experiments , those variations were found to be capable of producing a sensible , tho ' no very considerable effect : however , as all the experiments were tried in the summer season , in the day-time , and under cover ; we may suppose that the principal source of error would arise from the different weight of the column of the atmosphere at different times ; but as this seldom varies above 1/ ~ part of the whole , we may conclude , that tho ' many of the irregularities contained in the experiments referred to in the foregoing essay , might arise from this cause ; yet as all the principal conclusions are drawn from the medium of a considerable number , many whereof were made at different times , it is presumed that they will nearly agree with the truth , and be altogether sufficient for regulating the practical construction of those kind of machines , for which use they were principally intended .

