[ 245 ] IX .
Description of Teeth of a Large Extinct ( ?
) Sceparnodon , Ramsay .
By Professor Owen , C. B. , \amp ; c. Received October 2 , \#151 ; Read October 15 , 1883 .
[ Plate 11 .
] The only known Mammals of Australia with rootless , ever-growing scalpriform incisors , in bodily size suitable for wielding those about to be described , are the Diprotodon , the Nototherium , and the Phascolonu , all of which have become extinct .
But the incisors of the known species of the above genera differ in shape from each other and , in a still more marked degree , from those of Sceparnodon nor do any such teeth from other and smaller Mammals match with the present Fossils .
My first cognisance of this form of tooth was derived from casts , which were kindly transmitted to me in October , 1881 , by Edward P. Ramsay , Esq. , Curator of the Museum of Natural History , Sydney , New South Wales .
In the letter advising me of their transmission , Mr. Ramsay writes :\#151 ; " The flat teeth are those for which I proposed the name , but which name need not be retained by you , as no description has been published of them .
The smaller of the flat teeth was obtained in the central part of South Australia ; I believe near Lake Eyre .
I found it among a collection which I was asked to determine at the Melbourne Exhibition , and I took casts of it .
Those numbered A 3292 , A 3295 came from Gelgoine Station , New South Wales , and were found in a deep hole in the creek which was being cleaned out for water ; they are quite black , glossy , and seem to be impregnated with iron .
( Signed ) " Ed. P. Ramsay .
" Comparison of these casts of teeth , more or less mutilated , led me to the conclusion my valued correspondent had arrived at , and to the retention of the generic name proposed for the extinct animal to which they had belonged .
But I deferred their description in the hope of receiving actual and better preserved specimens , affording also the means of adding characters of microscopic structures to those of size and shape .
A portion of such tooth ( Plate 11 , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ) reached me this year , through the kindness of Mr. C. H. Harmann , of the Range Nursery , Toowoomba , Queensland .
It was found by him in the neighbouring bed of King 's Creek , from which * l\#163 ; iic"7roLpvoVy adze ; oSov ?
9 tooth .
formation the most instructive specimens of Megalania have been obtained .
With this verification of the subjects of the casts , I no longer defer making known so singular an addition to the , most probably , Marsupial fossil Fauna of Australia .
The specimen from King 's Creek , though mutilated at both ends , includes a portion of the tooth , 2 inches 9 lines ( 70 millims. ) in length , with an uniform breadth of 1 inch 3 lines ( 32 millims. ) , and as uniform a thickness of 7 millims. gradually increasing to 8 millims. at both side-margins .
The curvature of the tooth is uniform and moderate , and is shown in Plate 11 , fig. 1 .
Sufficient of the pulp-cavity was preserved at one end to indicate the tooth to have been one of uninterrupted growth ; at the opposite end the cavity is reduced to a linear fissure , fig. 3 a. Here the body of the tooth is seen to be composed of hard dentine , with a coat of enamel on the convex side , bending for the extent of a millimetre upon each obtuse margin ; the rest of the tooth having a thinner coat of cement .
One margin , slightly broader and less rounded than the other , indicates that which was in contact with , or very close to , the fellow incisor of the scalpriform pair .
The enamelled surface of the tooth presents fine and close-set longitudinal strise ; its transverse convexity is less than the corresponding concavity of the opposite side .
The concavity is traversed lengthwise by a pair of low , linear , risings or ridges , r , r , fig. 2 , 5 millims. apart ; one extending midway between the two borders , the other ridge being nearer the outer lateral border .
Most of the surface of this fossil shows a deep rufous stain which extends some way into the tooth 's substance , as shown by the sections for microscopical research next to be noted ; the weight of the fossil indicates metallic infiltration .
Of the intimate structure of the teeth of I detected , in 1844/ ' " but two wdiich seemed to call for illustration : one , from the Wombat , showed a larger proportion of the cement exterior to the enamel than in the Rodents ' incisors : this character , as it was exaggerated in the molars , was exemplified in a longitudinal section of one of those teeth ( op .
cit. , plate 103 , fig. 2 ) .
The other Marsupial modification was displayed by the teeth of the Kangaroo , and the illustration was afforded by a section of an incisor .
The character in question is a continuation of the more wavy terminal portion of the dentinal tubes across the boundary-line into the enamel ( op .
cit. , plate 102 ) .
In the subjoined drawing of a similar microscopic section of the fossil incisor of Sceparnodon the resemblance to the Wombat ( ib. , plate 103 ) , in the dental character so exposed will be seen to be closer than to any other Marsupial or to any Australian genus of Rodent .
The existing members of the Rodentia , native to Australia , are mostly of small size : the aquatic form , Hydromys , exemplifies the largest , but this hardly exceeds that of our Water-Rat ( ) , in which the upper incisors show a greater fore-and-aft than transverse diameter .
The small relative degree of the former diameter , or thickness , of the tooth is peculiar to Sceparnodon .
* 'Odontography , ' pp. 373-398 ; plates 98-103 .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON TEETH OF A LARGE EXTINCT GENUS .
The dentinal tubes , as displayed under a magnifying power of 150 diameters ( Plate 11 , fig. 9 , d , ) , show but a slight curvature in two-thirds of their course from the pulp-cavity , but become more curved in the distal third : the terminal bend , convex towards the cutting end of the tooth , is more strongly marked than in the incisors of or of Macropus .
The diameter of the tube is -3x^00 'f an inch .
The dichotomous divisions of the main tubes are sparing , until the greater curve is made , and the terminal branches of these open into minute cells along the line of the enamel , and occasionally into cells at some distance therefrom as shown at d\ fig. 9 .
The undulation of the fibres of the enamel , e , have a parallelism which renders a seeming course transverse to the section more conspicuous than the true direction toward the cement , c. This constituent repeats the microscopical characters of that of the Wombat 's upper incisor .
The cast of one of the specimens of an incisor of Sceparnodon Ramsayi ( Plate 11 , figs. 4 and 5 ) , from near Lake Eyre , includes the exposed or working end of the tooth , a ; it is bevelled off to an edge from the logitudinally concave to the convex side , corresponding to the enamelled outer surface , and which forms , as in other scal-priform incisors , the trenchant margin .
This edge slightly curves from the outer ( lateral ) to the inner ( mesial ) border of the tooth .
Just above the worn surface of the tooth near this border the concave side shows a feeble depression , indicative , it may be , of pressure by a contiguous tooth .
The transverse concavity of the back surface of the tooth is rather deeper than in Plate 11 , fig. 1 , and does not show the two longitudinal ridges .
This character , if traceable in the actual tooth , might suggest a specific difference .
The fractured , probably implanted , end of the actual tooth may show the termination of the pulp-cavity , but the indication in the cast is obscure .
The length of the specimen , in a straight line , is 4-| inches ( 90 millims. ) ; following the curve it gives 95 millims. The breadth of the biting end of the tooth is 27 millims. ; that of the opposite or growing end is 30 millims. This increase indicates a relation to the growth of the animal 's body , and suggests that the incisor may have come from a not fully-grown individual .
There is a corresponding increase of thickness at the ( broken ) implanted end , which gives 13 millims. The cast of the largest of these teeth which I have received , showing also the largest proportion of the tooth , figs. 6 and 7 , repeats the character of the mid-ridge along the concave surface ; but a second ridge is more remote and less defined .
The depression , b , above or root-ward of the abraded working surface is again indicated in this incisor .
The longitudinal lineation of the convex side of the tooth ( fig. 8 ) is of a coarser character than in the portion of tooth , fig. 3 , from King 's Creek .
The length of the cast of the tooth from Lake Eyre , in a straight line , is 5 inches ( 130 millims. ) : following the curve it gives 136 millims. : the breadth is 1^ inches ( 35 millims. ) , and this dimension is the same at both ends of the tooth , indicative of its having come from a fully-grown individual .
It seems strange that the indications of an extinct species so conspicuous as must have been the living Sceparriodon 'Ramsayi , obtained from localities so remote from each other and showing a wide geographical range , should be restricted to a front incisor , seemingly of the upper jaw .
Yet the first indication of the large Carnivore ( Thylacoleo ) was a solitary carnassial ; * and that of the huge herbivorous , was but a fragment of a front lower incisor.t I am in hopes , therefore , of being favoured by analogous opportunities of communicating to the Royal Society a restoration , through successive contributions , of the skeleton and dentition of the present singular , most probably Marsupial , Rodent-like , extinct , Australian Mammal .
Description of the Plate .
PLATE 11 .
Sceparnodon Ra , Owen .
Fig. 1 .
Side or edge view of portion of an incisor tooth .
Fig. 2 .
Outer or convex side of the same .
Fig. 3 .
Inner , or concave , side of the same .
Fig. 3a .
Cross-section of the same .
Fig. 4 .
Side or edge view of the cast of a larger portion of an incisor .
Fig. 5 .
Inner or concave side of the same cast ; showing , a , the abraded surface ; 6 , the indent above that surface .
Fig. 5 a. Cross section of the same .
Fig. 6 .
Side or edge view of the cast of a still larger portion of an incisor .
Fig. 7 .
Inner , or concave , side of the same cast ; showing , a , the abraded surface ; b , the indent ; r , median ridge .
Fig. 8 .
Portion of the outer surface , fig. 7 ' , showing the fine lineation of the cement-clad enamel .
( All the figures , save 9 , are of the natural size .
) * Mitchell 's 1 Three Expeditions into the Interior of Eastern Anstralia , 8vo .
, 1838 , vol. ii .
, Appendix , p. 359 , plate 32 , figs. 10 , 11 .
t lb. ib. , p. 362 , plate 51 , figs. 1 and 2 .

