On the Laws which regulate the Polarization of Light by Reflection from transparent Bodies .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Edin .
and F.S.A. Edin .
In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read March 16 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 125 .
] Though Huygens , who first explained the laws that regulate the extraordinary refraction of light at a surface of Iceland spar , discovered that light thus separated has properties different from common light ; and though Newton observed that light thus modified has permanent properties , with reference to the plane in which it has been refracted , and expressed this peculiarity by saying that these rays have sides according to which its subsequent refractions are regulated ; -it was Malus who gave to this modification the name of polarization , a term by which he could conveniently express the various affections which such light undergoes by refraction or reflection in different directions ; and could thereby most distinctly describe the various phenomena relating to his important discovery , that light may also by reflection acquire the same properties that are given by refraction through Iceland spar and other doubly refracting crystals .
Malus ascertained , that when light is incident on the surface of water at a certain angle , that portion of it which is reflected is completely polarized ; and that when light is incident on the surface of other media , the angle at which complete polarization of the reflected portion takes place will be different , being greater when the reflecting substance has a higher refractive .
But Malus did not succeed in detecting the rule by which the requisite angles of incidence for different bodies could be inferred from their refractive powers .
Dr. Brewster has been more successful in this inquiry ; and the result of his observations now communicated is , that the angles of incidence at which the maximum of polarization is affected by all substances he has examined are such , that tangent of incidence is to radius as sine of incidence to sine of refraction ; or as he expresses it , tangent of incidence is equal to the index of refraction .
And since tangent is : radius : : sine : cosine , it is evident that the angle of refraction is then complement to the angle of incidence , or their sum is a right angle ; and hence the reflected ray forms a right angle with the refracted ray .
At emergence also from a dense medium , the part reflected will be more or less polarized , and the maximum of polarization will be found as before , to occur when the angles of incidence and emergence are complementary to each other , or when the reflected portion makes a right angle with the refracted ray .
Hence , in polarization by a plate of glass , of which the surfaces are parallel , if the incidence on the first surface be such as to polarize the reflected ray , the portion reflected from the second surface will be polarized at the same time , -a fact which Malus had observed , but acknowledged himself unable to explain .
Dr. Brewster further observes , that it is according to the same law that the maximum of polarization takes place in reflection from the joint surface of two media .
The angle of incidence is complement to the angle of refraction , or the tangent of incidence ( as the author expresses it , ) is equal to the quotient of the indices of refraction of the media .
After describing in a series of propositions the various degrees in which light becomes polarized by reflection or refraction at different angles , and the number of reflections or refractions necessary to effect complete polarization at various angles remote from that which produces the maximum , the author investigates the origin of a certain quantity of unpolarized light which exists even at the maximum polarizing angle in reflection from substances of high refractive power ; and he shows it to depend on the different refrangibility of differently coloured light .
For when the incidence is such that the mean refrangible rays are completely polarized , it is evident that the incidence will not be such as to polarize completely either the red or the violet rays , and consequently a beam composed of these will appear as white light not polarized ; and when the polarization is effected at the surface of substances of high refractive and dispersive power , this portion will form a large proportion of the whole reflected light .
On the contrary , any pencil of homogeneous coloured light , though only once reflected , may be completely polarized , even at the surfaces of the densest substances , if incident at an angle correctly adapted to its refrangibility .
The author purposes , on some future occasion , to point out the laws which regulate the polarization of light under various other circumstances not noticed in the present communication .

