50 Mr. Lockyer .
Spectra of Stars .
[ Jan. 24 , He shows that , the work already done enables him to confirm the presence of Sr , Pb , Cd , K , Ce and U , and also that it indicates the probability of the presence of Ya , Pd , Mo , In , Li , Kb , Cs , Bi , Sn , La , Gl , Yt or Er .
IV .
Note on the Bright Lines in the Spectra of Stars and .
Nebulae .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received December 31 , 1877 .
Owing to absence from England in April last , I have only just become acquainted with Dr. Huggins ' paper , in reply to that by Mr. Stone , on the above subject .
As Mr. Stone has again directed attention to the matter , I am anxious to say that I agree with him so entirely# that two years ago I searched for indications of a large chromosphere in the case of a Lyras and some other stars .
I believe I have had glimpses of bright lines at F and \amp ; , but if this discussion had not arisen I should * I append an extract from a lecture on the Structure of Nebulae and Stars , which I gave at Manchester in the autumn of 1876 ( " Manchester Science Lectures " ) , to show the perfect accord there is between us .
" There are nebulae and stars with spectra so similar that if one had the evidence of the spectroscope alone , it might be impossible to decide which was nebula and which was star .
Now this may be a little startling to some of you , and therefore it is only fair I should explain it .
The stars , you know , are so remote from us that in the most powerful telescopes to which spectroscopes are applied , they appear only as the finest points of light .
Now these points of light , it is not absurd to imagine , may in some instances be two millions , or perhaps even three millions , of miles in real diameter .
We know that our own sun , which is certainly not the largest star in the heavens , is nearly one million miles in diameter ; that is to say , the true sun , the true stellar nucleus , is one million miles in diameter .
Now when I dealt in my second lecture with the physical constitution of the sun , I pointed out that the sun which we see , the sun which sends us the majority of the light we receive , is but a small kernel in a gigantic nut , so that the diameter of the real sun may be , say , two million miles .
Suppose then that some stars have very large coronal atmospheres ; if the area of the coronal atmosphere is small compared with the area of the section of the true disc of the sun , of course we shall get an ordinary spectrum of the star ; that is to say , we shall get the indications of absorption which make us class the stars apart $ we shall get a continuous spectrum barred by dark lines .
But suppose that the area of the coronal atmosphere is something very considerable indeed , let us assume that it has an area , say fifty times greater than the section of the kernel of the star itself ; now , although each unit of surface of that coronal atmosphere may be much less luminous than an equal unit of surface of the true star at the centre , yet if the area be very large , the spectroscopic writing of that large area will become visible side by side with the dark lines due to the brilliant region in the centre where we can study absorption ; other lines ( bright ones ) proceeding from the exterior portion of that star will be visible in the spectrum of the apparent point we call a star .
Now it is difficult to say whether such a body as that is a star or a nebula .
We may look upon it as a nebula in a certain stage of condensation $ we may look upon it as a star at a certain stage of growth/ 1 On the relative " Facility of Production " 1878 .
] have still hesitated to mention this , as I have been hoping for an increase of optical power which would have enabled me to be quite certain on the point .
My aperture ( 6 inches Cooke ) is not adequate to put the result beyond all doubt .
As , however , the question has been raised , it is better at once to state the attempt and its result , and to ask others with greater optical power to search for the lines ; taking the precaution to use the cylindrical lens close to the eye , and not to apply it to the instrument until the rays to be examined are absolutely in focus on the slit , if a slit is used .
It is possible scintillation may help matters .
V. " On the relative ' Facility of Production ' of Chemical Combinations .
" By Sir B. C. Brodie , Bart. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received November 21 , 1877 .
( Plate 4 .
) A circumstance which cannot fail to impress the student of chemistry is the extreme paucity of chemical substances .
The combinations of which he can conceive are innumerable , but those which he can realize are few\#151 ; a mere sprinkling from the sea-shore sand\#151 ; and , making the fullest allowance for human incapacity , it yet appears that there are natural facilities and natural obstacles in the way of making certain compounds which are independent of our skill and power .
It is my object to show that among these is to be reckoned that relative " facility of production " of chemical substances which depends on the mathematical laws of combination which are inherent in the very nature of chemical combination and unalterable .
By this I mean the relative facility with which the units of matter may be constructed and taken to pieces , owing to the relation of these units to the number and kinds of the simple weights of which they are made up ; and I propose to consider in what way , if any , this unequal " facility of produfction " is connected with these mathematical laws .
Is it true that , as a matter of theory , there arises from these laws any greater facility for the production of one compound than of another , or do all stand on the same level ?
and , further , does experience tally with the conclusions of theory ?
In my second Memoir , * on the Calculus of Chemical Operations , I have shown that the unit of every chemical substance is to be regarded as constituted by the performance of the several operations a , x\gt ; \#163 ; . . . .
UP011 the unit of space , and have also shown f that the ultimate analysis of every chemical event leads to the con-* " Phil. Trans. , " Vol. clxvii , part i , p. 35 , 1877 .
+ Loc .
cit.9 p. 115 .

