Transparence of Surface Film in Polished Metals .
593 well to note that the ordinary dispersion of this glass shows anomaly near A , 4300 .
One other local irregularity seems worthy of notice ; this is the dip in the Ci curve at 90 ' C. near A 5500 .
This is isolated : there is nothing corresponding to it in any of the other curves .
This dip appears , however , well supported by the neighbouring observations .
If it prove real it is of considerable interest , being apparently developed only at the higher temperature .
8 .
In conclusion I have to express my very best thanks to Dr. E. 1ST .
da C. Andrade for his invaluable assistance .
Dr. Andrade very kindly undertook to measure for me the spectrograms and has expended much valuable time and care upon this task .
My acknowledgments are also due to Professor F. T. Trouton for continuing to me the kind and helpful hospitality of his laboratory at University College , London .
Transparence or Translucence of the Surface Film produced in Polishing Metals .
By G. T. Beilby , F.R.S. ( Received January 21 , \#151 ; Read February 12 , 1914 .
) [ Plate 11 .
] In a communication to the British Association* it was suggested that all smooth metal surfaces are covered with an enamel-like transparent layer .
In a subsequent communication to the Royal Societyf the actual formation of a surface layer or skin by polishing was demonstrated .
Two of the photomicrographs in the latter paper ( figs. 5 and 6 , Plate 9 ) showed that minute pits on a polished surface of antimony had been covered over by a film of this description .
It was suggested that the diminished reflecting power of the film covering the pits probably indicated that it had become translucent , but no direct evidence of this translucence was afforded by these particular observations .
It was also suggested that the film might have been carried across the pits on a support provided by small granules or flakes which had filled up the pit to the level of the general surface .
The * ' Brit. Assoc. Rep. , ' 1901 , p. 604 .
t ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' A , vol. 72 , p. 218 .
G. T. Beilby .
Transparence or Translucence purpose of the present communication is to record and illustrate certain recent observations which show:\#151 ; ( 1 ) That the film which covers the pits is transparent , or at any rate highly translucent : and ( 2 ) That in the case of the smaller pits the mobile film has been carried across the empty pit without any support from below .
In the casting and working of copper , unless certain precautions are taken , the metal is always more or less spongy , owing to the presence of gas bubbles .
When the surface of this metal is ground and polished , some of the gas bubbles are laid open and appear on the surface as tiny pits .
If the cast metal has been subjected to cold working , by rolling or otherwise , the larger bubbles are distorted , and take elongated and other varied forms .
By any method of polishing which will give a fair surface the pits are flowed over and obliterated , but by lightly etching the surface with a solvent the surface skin can be removed and the pits are again disclosed .
By careful regulation of the action of the solvent it is possible to remove the surface layer step by step , and the film covering the pits can be reduced to extreme thinness .
Through this thin film one seems to be looking right into the pit .
In polishing metal surfaces the amount of the metal which is removed by the polishing agent can be varied through wide limits under conditions which need not be specified here .
It is sufficient for the present purpose to state that by suitable methods the skin developed on the surface may be raised to a maximum thickness or reduced to a minimum .
For the present inquiry it was desirable that the film produced should be as thin as possible .
The copper used in these experiments received its final polishing on fine linen stretched over a hard flat surface and moistened with one of the ordinary commercial brass polishing liquids .
On the copper surface prepared in this way the pits , as seen under high magnification , appear as blue spots on the pale rose-coloured ground of the solid metal .
While some of the film-covered pits appear uniformly blue , others show patches of red at various parts of their surface .
When these red patches were first noticed it was supposed that they indicated a thickening of the film at these points to the extent necessary for normal reflection .
More careful study has shown that the red patches are due to reflections from the inner concave surface of the pit .
The beam of light from the vertical illuminator behind the back lens of the object-glass of the microscope passes through the film covering the pit , strikes the concave metallic surface , and is reflected back through the film to the object-glass and thence to the eyeBeilby .
Roy .
Soc. RrocA .
Vo !
89 , Pi n Fig. i Fi/ m covering Fig. 2 .
Film removed .
Fig 3 .
Film covering Pits x 1800 Fig 4- .
Film removed .
of the Surface Film produced in Polishing Metals .
595 piece .
The reflecting surface of the pits is evidently far from optical perfection , and the reflected beam is therefore more or less broken up by irregularities of the reflecting surface .
By the use of autochrome plates it has been possible to obtain high power photo-micrographs in natural colours of pits on a copper surface .
Four of these transparencies have been reproduced by the three-colour process , and are shown on Plate 11 .
Figs. 1 and 2 are at a magnification of 800 diameters , and figs. 3 and 4 at 1800 diameters .
In figs. 1 and 3 the pits are covered by a blue film , but show patches of red on the blue .
Figs. 2 and 4 show the same pits after the film has been dissolved and removed by a 10-per-cent , solution of ammonium persulphate acting for 20 to 30 seconds .
On comparing the members of each pair , 1 with 2 , and 3 with 4 , it is seen that the red patches in 1 and 3 correspond with the spots of light reflected from the concave surfaces of the uncovered pits as shown in 2 and 4 .
It is clear that the pits which show these reflections from the under surface must have been practically empty when they were covered by the film , so that the film during its flow was quite unsupported from below .
The thickness of the films covering the pits is probably of the order of 10 to 20 micro-millimetres .

