]\gt ; and Rontgen Rays in On the Behaviour of the in Magnetic Field By the Hon. J. Scholal of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by LORD ItAyLEIGFt , ] .
Peceived , Tanuary 9 , \mdash ; Read January 18 , 1900 .
In the current number of Wiedeman 's 'Annalen , ' sxperiment is descl'ibed by Giesel showing that the Becquerel rays are deflected in gnetic field .
This result is of great interest , on { tccount of the light which it throws on the nature of the .
Up to the present , the evidence has tended to show that the Becquerel rays were of the Qame nature the Rontgen rays , ) being capable of penetratin metal shects , of affectin a photographic plate , and of producing ionisain the mding air .
Neither could be refracted or reflected ; and so far as yet appeared , neither could be polarised .
These seemed to form a fairly strong body of evidence that the two kinds of radiation were essentially similar .
But the announceof the magnetic deilectibility of the Becquerel rays seems to throw doubt on this conctusion .
The Rontgen rays , so far as is known , quite affected by magnetic force .
Under these circumstances it seemed worth while to make a new attempt to discover such effect the ontgen rays .
This attempt I have carried out .
It will be best to stty at once that the resuIt is negative .
A focus tube was employed as the source of radiation .
It placed $t a distance of ) cm .
fruni a powerful electro-magnet , and in such a position that the cathode rays in the tubs were parallel to the magnetic force due to the magnet .
The line ioining the oblique -cathode to the centre of the magnetic field lay in the plane of the -cathode .
A short distance in front of the magnet a wire was placed at right angles to the direction of the rays , and in the plane of the anti-cathode .
It was thus at an angle of about to the magnetic force\mdash ; the same angle as that between the axis of the cathode stream and the anticathode .
This wire was used to cast a shadow on a photographio plate placed at a distance of 65 cm .
on the other side of the magnet .
An exposure was first made with the magnetic force in one direction .
The exposure was then stopped , the field reversed , and anothel exposure given of course without shifting the plate .
If then the rays had been appreciably deflected , the photograph should have shown two shadows , either overlapping , or altogether separated .
The rays casting the shadow were those emitted at grazing ngle from the anti-cathode .
The reason for using these very oblique rays was that owing to the foreshortening of the anti-cathode , the source was virtually narrower than it would have ) , had rays LXVI .
after leaving the magnetic field .
It was estimated that a lateral displacement of the shadow of the wire by cm .
could have been detected .
But the wire was inclined to the resultant magnetic force .
Thus the smallest real displacement that could with certainty be detected was cm .
The smallest ' deflection of the rays which could be detected would , in measure , The length through which the rays were exposed to the magnetic force was 8 cm .
If in this distance they were bent through the above angle , the radius of curvature would ) cm .
cm .
The strength of the magnetic field was determined in the manner , by observing the throw of galvanometer when a small coil of known dimensions connected up it was suddenly withdrawn from the region between the pole pieces .
To reduce the to absolute measure , the throw due to reversal of an earth-inductor in the same circuit was observed .
In this way the strength of the field was found tc be It is convenient to exhibit the result by the maximum field which the experiments indicate as unable to produce a curvature of radius 1 cm .
Since a of 3270 does not produce a curvature of radillS less than 19,800 , we see the field required to produce a curvature of dius 1 cm .
cannot be less than 6 .
10 Becquerel and Rays in a Magnetic Owing to the fact that the magnetic field was rwersed instead of being merely shut off , the experiment is really of double the sensitiveness indicated above .
But , in order to be well on the safe side , it has been thought best to leave this out of account .
For the sake of ( :omparison I have attempted a rough estimate of the amount of the magnetic deflection of the Becquerel rays .
The method employed was as follows:\mdash ; FIG. 1 .
A photographic plate , shown in seotion at , was laid on the top of the square pole pieces of a magnet , the magnetio force being perpendicular to the plane of the diagram .
The plate covered with thin aluminium foil ; is a metal capsule filled with the substance , which enlitted the rays .
When no magnetic force was acting , the rays were emitted from tho capsule as indicated in fig. 1 , some of them striking obliquely o11 the plato .
On development after one hour 's exposure , a shadow was obtained }eginning at the edge of the capsule , and extending a short distance .
The effect gradually tailed off , and at a few .
distance away from it was inappreciable .
When the magnetic force was such a direction as to bend the rays down into the plate ( fig. 2 ) , the FIG. 2 .
shadow extended further .
When , on the other hand , the magnet was reversed so as to bend the rays away from the plate ( fig. 3 ) , the FIG. 3 .
substance employed was a preparation from uranium residues , supplied by de Haen , Hamburg .
Let us suppose that ( fig. 4 ) reprcsents in soction the front surfuce of the radiating substance , the surface of the photographi plate .
Let be the place fUrthest from which the darkening on the photographic plate was perceptible .
Now the rays which reach fnrthest are those which proceed from , the highest point of the radiating s1lrface , may easily be seen from geometrical considerations .
The rays which reach must con sequently proceed from Rays proceeding from any lower point of the surface will either be bent up so as never to reach the plate at all , or else they will sbrike it short of .
The ray which reaches from will clearly just graze the surface of the plate at If be the radins of curvature , l ) the distance the distance , then or .
If then we , the height of the highest part of the radiating surface the plate , and the greatest distance to which the darkening of the plate extends , we have data for determining It must be ) itted that the measurement of involves erreat uncertainty .
The gradnally tails off , and any estimate of its length must to a great extent be arbitrary .
The value of deduced is more uncertain still , since is involved in calculating it .
Bnt , in spite of those objections , the method may , I think , be relied on to give the order of magnitude of , and that is all that is required , so far as the conclusions which it is here sought to draw are concerned .
In one experiment , the length was estimated at 2 cm .
; was cm .
Thus cm .
approximately .
The strength of the magnetic field , measured as before , was 1680 C.G.S. Thus the field required to produce a curvature of radius 1 cm .
is about In another experiment , was cm .
, was cm .
, and the field .
This gives practioally the snme resnlt the preceding .
The Thermo-d/ ma ?
nicai Propcrties of ) Steam .
79 In an experiment descriI ) by Professor J. J. Thomson , a beam of cathode was bent to a radius of curvature of 9 cm .
in a field of 35 .
Thus a field of 315 old have been required to bend it to of 1 cm .
Let us now collect the results obtained , and compare them with this .
The field which would be required to produce a curvature of 1 cm .
radius vould be For cathode rays Becquerel rays Rontgen rays not less than If the Rontgen are magnetically deflected at all , it is by ( tnlount less than a ten-thousandth part of that observed in the case of the Becquerel rays .
The magnetic deflectibility of the Becquerel rays cannot ) be conidered to be a most characteristic propexty .
And the above result to make it tolerably certain that the Rontgen rays do not possess property .
It is to be concluded , therefore , that the Becqne rays , after all , essentially different in character from the rays .
\mdash ; All Experimental Investigation of the Thermo-dynamical perties of Superheated \ldquo ; By JOHN H. GRINDLEY , B.Sc. , Wh .
Sch .
, Exhibition ( 1801 ) Scholar , late Fellow of the Victoria Uniyersity .
Communicated by Professor REYNOLDS , eceived April 21 , January 18 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) PART I.\mdash ; On the Law of Flow of SteOrific In making experiments on the thermal properties of superheated hteam obtained by wiredrawing saturated steam , it is essential that c.ertain laws assumed in theory to govern the flow through the orific.e should obtain in practice .
Among these laws the only one on which a difference would he expected to exist ] ) etweell experiment and theory , is the law of adiabatic expansion assumed to hold during the flow .
Since suoh adiabatical flow is not -mned , ) is in obtaining temperature results in the wiredrawn steam which will enable deductions to be by theory of the initial dryness of the steam or its thermal condition after wiredrawing , it was found im-

