189 1881 .
] Investigations on the Spectrum HI " Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium .
" By ' G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and j Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received April 28 , 1881 .
[ PlATE 1 .
] Since our last communication on this subject ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol 30 , p. 93 ) several authors\#151 ; Ciamician , Cornu and Fievez have published observations on the spectrum of magnesium , to some of which allusion is made in the sequel , but these observations by no means exhaust the subject .
Our own observations , carried on for a considerable time , have extended to new regions and a variety of circumstances , and the summary of them which we now present to the Society will , we hope , help to bring out the connexion between some of the variations in the spectrum of this element and the conditions under which it is observed , and throw additional light on the question of the emissive power for radiations of short wave-length ot substances at the relatively low temperature of flame to which we alluded in our paper on the spectrum of water ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 580 ) .
We begin with an account of these observations .
Spectrum of the Flame of Burning Magnesium .
When magnesium wire or ribbon is burnt in ait , we see the three lines of the b group , the blue line about wave-length 4570 , first noticed by us in the spark spectrum ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 27 , p. 350 ) ; and photographs show , besides , the well-known triplet in the ultraviolet between the solar lines K and L sharply defined , and the line for which Cornu has found the wave-length 2850 very much expanded and strongly reversed .
These lines are all common to the flame , arc , and spark spectra ; and the last of them ( 2850 ) seems to be by far the strongest line both in the flame and arc , and is one of the strongest in the spark .
But , in addition to these lines , the photographs of the flame show a very strong , somewhat diffuse , triplet , generally resembling the other magnesium triplets in the relative position of its components , close to the solar line M ; and a group of bands below it extending beyond the triplet near L. These bands have , for the most part , each one sharply defined edge , but fade away on the other side ; but the diffuse edges are not all turned towards the same side of the spectrum .
The positions of the sharp edges of these bands , and of the strong triplet near M , are shown in the figure , No. 1 .
It is remarkable that the triplets near P and S are absent from the flame spectrum , and that the strong triplet near M is not represented at all either in the arc or spark .
The hydrogen-magnesium series of lines , beginning at a wave-length about 5210 , are also seen sometimes , as already 190 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ Mar. 12 described by us ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 96 ) , in the spectrum of the flame ; but we have never observed that the appearance of these lines , or of the strong line with which they begin , is connected with the non-appearance of b4 .
Indeed , we can almost always see all three lines of the b group in the flame , though as is the least strong 0f the three , it is likely to be most easily overpowered by the continuous spectrum of the flame .
The new observations recorded below leave we think , no room for doubt that the series of lines beginning at wave-length 5210 are due to a combination of hydrogen with magnesium , and are not dependent solely on the temperature .
The wave-lengths of the strong triplet nearM are about 3720 , 3724 , 3730 , and of the defined edges of the bands about 3750 , 3756 , 3765 ' 3772 , 3777 , 3782 , 3790 , 3799 , 3806 , 3810 , 3815 , 3824 , 3841 , 3845 3848 , 3855 , 3858 , 3860 , 3865 .
Burning magnesium in oxygen instead of atmospheric air does not bing out any additional lines ; on the contrary , the continuous spectrum from the magnesia overpowers the line spectrum , and makes it more difficult of observation .
Magnesia heated in the oxyhydrogen jet does not appear to give the lines seen in the flame .
We have left out of the figure and from the enumeration of lines the well-known bands of the oxide .
Spectrum of the Arc. By examining ' the arc of a battery of 40 Grove 's cells , or that of a Siemens machine , taken in a crucible of lime , under the dispersion of the spectrum of the fourth order given by a Rutherford grating of 17,296 lines to the inch , we are able to separate the iron and magnesium lines which form the very close pair b\#177 ; of the solar spectrum .
Either of the two lines can be rendered the more prominent of the pair at will , by introducing iron or magnesium into the crucible .
The less refrangible line of the pair is thus seen to be due to iron , the more refrangible to magnesium .
Comparison of the solar line and the spark between magnesium points confirms this conclusion , that the magnesium line is the more refrangible of the two .
In the ultra-violet part of the spectrum photographs show several new lines .
First , a pair of lines above U at wave-lengths about 2942 , 2938'5.* These lines are a little below a pair of lines given by the spark for which Cornu has found the wave-lengths 2934'9 , 2926'7 .
The latter pair are not seen at all in photographs of the arc , nor the former in those of the spark .
The strong line , wave-length about * [ Many of our photographs show besides these two lines a third line wave-length about 2937'5 , but we have not been able to determine certainly that it is due to magnesium .
If so this group probably bolongs to the series of triplets.\#151 ; June 2.J 1881 3 Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium .
v 191 2850 , is always seen , very frequently reversed .
Of the quadruple [ -roup in the spark to which Cornu has assigned the wave-lengths !
2801-3 2797'1 , 2794-5 , and 2789-9 , the first and third are strongly developed in the arc , the other two not at all .
Next follows a set of \#166 ; five nearly equidistant lines , well-defined and strong , hut much less !
strong than the two previously mentioned , wave-lengths about 2782-2 , 12780-7 , 2779*5 , 2778*2 , 2776-9 .
The middle line is a little stronger than the others .
The same lines come out in the spark .
Beyond these follow a series of pairs and triplets ; probably they are triplets in every case , but the third , most refrangible , line of the triplets is the weakest , and has not in every case been noticed as yet .
These succeed one another at decreasing intervals with diminishing strength , and are alternately sharp and diffuse , the diffuse triplets being the strongest. .
The positions are shown in fig. 2 .
The series resembles in general character the sodium and the potassium series-described by us in a former communication , and we cannot resist the inference that they must be harmonically related , though they do not follow a simple harmonic law .
The most refrangible line in the figure at wave-length 2605 represents a faint diffuse band which is not resolvable into lines ; it belongs , no doubt , to the diffuse members of the series , and , to complete the series , there should be another sharp group between it and the line at wave-length 2680 .
This belonging to the weaker members of the series is too weak to be seen .
The approximate wave-lengths found by us for these lines are as follows:\#151 ; 2767-5 , 2764-5 , 2736 , 2732-5 , 2731 , 2698 , 2695 , 2693-5 , 2672-5 , 2670 , 2668*5 , 2649 , 2646 , 2633 , 2630 , 2605 .
It is worthy of remark that the line at wave-length 5710 , described by us in a previous communication ( ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 30 , ]p .
98 ) , is very nearly the octave of the strong line at 2850 .
Moreover the measures we have taken of the wave-length of this last line , with a Rutherford grating of 17,296 lines to the inch , indicate a wavelength 2852 nearly , which is still closer to the half of 5710 .
In Cornu 's map of the solar spectrum a line is ascribed to magnesium with the wave-length 3278 .
Although a line at this place appears in many of our photographs of the arc , we have not been able to identify it as a line due to magnesium .
It does not show any increased strength when magnesium is introduced into the arc .
When metallic magnesium is dropped into a crucible of magnesia or lime through which the arc is passing , the electric current seems sometimes to be conducted chiefly or entirely by the vaporised metal , so that the lines of other metals almost or wholly disappear ; but the line at wave-length 3278 does not in such cases appear , though the other magnesium lines are very strongly developed .
The line at wave-length 2850 is often , under such circumstances , enormously expanded and reversed , those at wave-lengths 2801 , 2794 , and the Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ May 12 , .alternate diffuse triplets , including those near L and near S , much expanded and reversed , and the group of five lines ( 2776______2782 ) sometimes reversed .
When the arc of a Siemens machine is taken in a magnesia crucible , the strong line of the flame spectrum , wave-length 4570 , is well seen sharply defined ; it comes out strongly and a little expanded on dropping in a fragment of magnesium .
When a gentle stream of hydrogen is led in through a hollow pole , this line is frequently reversed as a sharp black line on a continuous background .
Prom comparing the position of this line with those of the titanium lines in its neighbourhood , produced by putting some titanic oxide into the crucible , we have little doubt that it is identical with the solar line 45709 of Angstrdm .
When the arc is taken in a crucible into which the air has access , it may be assumed that the atmosphere about the arc is a mixture of nitrogen and carbonic oxide .
When a stream of hydrogen is passed , either through a perforated pole or by a separate opening , into the crucible , the general effect is to shorten the length to which the arc can be drawn out , increase the relative intensity of the continuous spectrum , and diminish the intensity of the metallic lines .
Thus , with a very gentle stream of hydrogen in a magnesia crucible , most of the metallic lines , except the strongest and those of magnesium , disappear .
Those lines which remain are sometimes reversed ; those at wave-length 2850 and the triplet near L being always so .
With a stronger stream the lines of magnesium also disappear , the b triplet being the last in that neighbourhood to go , and Zq and remaining after b4 has disappeared .
Chlorine seems to have an opposite effect to hydrogen , generally intensifying the metallic lines , at least those of the less volatile metals , but it does not sensibly affect the spectrum of magnesium .
Nitrous oxide produces no marked effect ; coal-gas acts much as hydrogen .
Spectrum of the In the spark of an induction coil taken between magnesium points m air we get all the lines seen in the arc except two lines at wavelengths 4350 and 4166 , two lines above U , and the series of triplets more refrangible than the quintuple group about wave-length 2780 .
The blue line wave-length about 4570 is seen in the spark without a jar when the magnesium electrodes are close together , and the rheotome made to work slowly , but requires for its detection a spectroscope in which the loss of light is small .
On the other hand , some additional lines are seen .
Of these , the strong line at wave-length 4481 and the weak line at 4586 are well known .
Another faint line in the blue at wave-length 4808* has been * This line we first noticed in a former communication Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1881.1 Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium .
observed by ns in the spark , and two diffuse pairs between H and the triplet near L. Two ultra-violet lines at wave-lengths 2934*9 , 2926*7 / Cornu ) are near , but not identical with , two lines of the arc above mentioned ; and two more lines at wave-lengths 2797 1,2789 9 ( Cornu ) make a quadruple group with the very strong pair which are conspicuous in the arc in this region .
The spectrum of the spark ends , so far as we have observed , with the quintuple group ( 2782\#151 ; 2776 ) already described in the arc .
The lines of this spectrum are given in fig. 3 .
When a Leyden jar is used with the coil , some of the lines are reversed .
This is notably the case with the triplet near L , the line at wave-length 2850 , and those at 2801 and 2794 .
Cornu ( " Count .
Rend .
, " 1871 ) noticed the reversal of the less refrangible two lines of the triplet near L under these circumstances .
This effect is very much increased by increasing the pressure of the gas in which the spark is taken .
For the purpose of observing the influence of increased pressures , we have used a Cailletet pump and glass tubes similai to those employed in the liquefaction of gases by means of such a pump , but with an expansion of the upper part in which were magnesium electrodes attached to platinum wires sealed into the glass .
The tube having been filled with gas at the atmospheric pressure , was sealed at its upper end , while the lower end dipped into mercury contained in the iron bottle of the Cailletet pump , and the gas was afterwards compressed by driving more or less mercury into the tube .
The gases used were hydrogen , nitrogen , and carbonic oxide ; and the image of the spark was thrown on to the slit of the spectroscope by a lens. .
In hydrogen , when no Leyden jar was used , the brightness of the yellow and of the blue lines of magnesium , except at first that at wave-length 4570 , diminished as the pressure increased ; while , on the other hand , the b group was decidedly stronger at the higher pressure .
The pressure was carried up to 20 atmospheres , and then the magnesium lines in the blue and below almost or entirely disappeared , leaving only the b group very bright , and the magnesium-hydrogen bands which are described below ; even the hydrogen lines I1 and C were not visible .
When a jar was used , the magnesium lines expanded as the pressure was increased ; all three lines of the b group were expanded and reversed at a pressure of 5 atmospheres ; the yellow line , wavelength 5528 , was also expanded but not reversed ; and the line at 4481 became a broad , very diffuse band , but the line at wave-length 4570 was but very little expanded .
The expansion both of the b group and of the yellow line seemed to be greater on the less refrangible than on the more refrangible side of each line , so that the black line in those vol. 27 , p. 353 ) , but the wave-length is there given , through an error in taking out the ordinate of the curve of interpolation , as 4797 instead of 4807 .
Another measure has given the wave-length 4808 .
194 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ May 12 which were reversed was not in the middle .
When the jar was used the pressure could not be carried beyond 10 or 12| atmospheres , as the resistance became then so great that the spark would not pass across the small distance of about 1 millim. between the electrodes .
At-a pressure of 2\#163 ; atmospheres , with a jar , the ultra-violet magnesium triplet near L was very well reversed , and the two pairs of lines on its less refrangible side ( shown in fig. 3 ) were expanded into two diffuse-bands .
In nitrogen and in carbonic oxide the general effects of increased pressure on the magnesium lines ( not the magnesium-hydrogen bands ) seemed to be much the same as in hydrogen .
Without a jar the blue and yellow lines were enfeebled , and at the higher pressures disappeared , while the b group was very brilliant but not much expanded .
With the jar all the lines were expanded , and all three lines-of the b group strongly reversed .
The bands of the oxide ( wave-length 4930 5000 ) were not seen at all in hydrogen or nitrogen *\#166 ; they were seen at first in carbonic oxide , but not after the sparking had been continued for some time .
The disappearance of certain lines at increased pressure is in harmony with the observations of Cazin ( " Phil. Mag. , " 1877 , vol. iv , 154 ) , who noticed that the banded spectrum of nitrogen , and also the lines , grew fainter as the pressure was increased , and finally disappeared .
When a Leyden ja* is employed there is a very great increase in the amount of matter volatilised by the spark from the electrodes , as is shown by the very rapid blackening of the sides of the tube with the deposited metal , and this increase in the amount of metallic vapour may reasonably be supposed to affect the character of the discharge , and conduce to the widening of the lines and the reversal of some of them .
Without a jar the amount of matter carried off the electrode also doubtless increases with the pressure and consequent resistance , and may be the cause of the weakening , as Cazin suggests , of the lines of the gas in which the discharge is passed .
It is to be noted , moreover , that the disappearance of the hydrogen lines depends , in some degree , on the nearness of the electrodes .
The lines C and F which were , as above stated , sometimes invisible in the spark when the electrodes were near , became visible , under circumstances otherwise similar , when the magnesium points had become worn away by the discharge .
M. Ch. Fievez ( " Bull , de l'Academie Royale de Belgique , " 1880 , p. 91 ) has investigated the variations in the appearance of the spark spectrum of magnesium under certain different conditions .
Using a Rutherford grating of 17,296 lines to the inch , he has noticed certain lines about the b group which increase in number with the order of the spectrum observed .
He has also noticed dark lines in the solar spectrum corresponding to these lines of magnesium when the two spectra were superposed ( fig. 5 ) .
We have noticed similar lines in the 1881 .
] Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium .
19a tke principal line .
These ghosts are so much fainter than the prmcipa lines1 that they are not noticed in the case of any bat bright lines , and except in the case of very bright lines only two , one on each side , are seen to accompany each principal line .
Fig. 5 .
Solar spectrum by Rutherford grating 4th order after M. Fievez .
Magnesium .
Magnesium b group with ghosts produced by Rutherford grating .
Fig. 7 .
\#166 ; m i i \#166 ; Bgi \#166 ; \#166 ; 1 \#166 ; \#166 ; of 4th order .
Spectrum of 3rd order .
Fig. 6 .
Baltimore , who has found theoretically , and confirmed it by actual 196 Profs- Living and Dewar .
[ May observation , that the distance between snccessive images of the sam* line is directly proportional to the dispersion and inversely as ^ order of the spectrum .
Our own observations of the positions ^ the ghosts of the \amp ; group of magnesium lines in spectra of different orders agree closely with Mr. Peirce 's theory , and two different Rutherford gratings both give us the same results .
The annexed dia-gram ( figs. 6 and 7 ) gives the relative positions of the first na , V f f * of in the sped of LPThirt ^d fourth orders , when the angle between eollimator and telel \#153 ; lit5 i , ?
tlS 1BuWlth M- Ch- Knves 's map , it will be seen that he has probably been deceived by these both in the solar spectrum and in that of the spark ; but as he does not state the anrfl between his collimator and telescope , no exact comparison can be made .
These ghosts are sometimes very embarrassing when many lines are m the field of view , but they may be detected^ comparing the spectra of drfferent orders , as the ghosts have diffeint rLtive positions in the spectra of different orders .
In the spectrum of the atd'lrt^ f ' , S''f \gt ; 0n the"OTe ref\#153 ; " SibIe side falls op-o4 , and that of b4 on its less refrangible side falls on The Magnesium-hydrogen Spectrum .
In the \#171 ; Proc. Boy .
Soc. , " vol. 27 , p. 494 , and vol. 30 , p. 93 , we have recorded a series of experiments which led us to attribute to magnesium together with hydrogen a peculiar spectrum .
This spectrum we have on no occasion been able to detect in the absence of hydrogen .
Ob .
serrations on the spark discharge in nitrogen , in carbonic cfxide , and in hydrogen , at reduced pressures , confirmed the results given in the rs -mentioned paper , when the discharge was taken in the gases at atmospheric pressure .
It was further shown that this peculiar spec trum could be reversed during the voltaic discharge in a lime crucible provided magnesium and hydrogen were both present , but not in the absence of hydrogen .
Likewise the flame of burning magnesium was ound to emit this spectrum when the combustion occurred in an atmosphere contoimng either free or combined hydrogen .
In summing up our results the following opinion was expressed :\#151 ; " The experiments above described , with nitrogen and carbonic oxide at reduced pressures , are almost if not quite conclusive against the supposition that the line at 5210 is due merely to the lower tern-perature of the spark m hydrogen .
Prom De La Rue and Muller 's observations it would appear that nitrogen at a pressure of 400 millims. .
Pr0duc\#174 ; ffluoh the 8ame effect on the spark as hydrogen at / bU mil ; ims- Now the pressures of the nitrogen and carbonic oxide were reduced far below this without any trace of the line in question emg visible .
Moreover , the magnesium line at 4481 , which is not il8gl .
] Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium .
19T .
the arc and may be reasonably ascribed to the higher tern-X"ture of the spark , may be seen in the spark at the same fame : !
!"he line at 5210 when hydrogen is present .
Nevertheless tern , neratnre does seem to affeot the result in some degree , for when a We Leyden jar is used , and the gas is at the atmosphene pressure , :*e line almost disappears from the spark , to reappear when the Inressnre is reduced ; but by no variation of temperature have we been able to see the line when hydrogen was carefully excluded .
" A line of the same wave-length has been seen by Young m the chromosphere once .
Its absence from the Fraunhofer lines lea s o the inference that the temperature of the STm 18 * ' ?
Jhlgh_ ( \#153 ; less a special times and places ) for its production .
If it be not due to a compound of magnesium with hydrogen , at any rate it occurs with special facility in the presence of hydrogen , and ought to occur m the sun if the temperature were not too high .
r " We have been careful to ascribe this line and its attendant series to a mixture of magnesium and hydrogen rather than to a chemical compound , because this expresses the facts , and we have not yet obtained any independent evidence of the existence of any chemical compound of those elements .
# \#171 ; , , Fig. 4 shows more completely than we have given it before the general character of this spectrum , which consists of two sets of flutings and a pair of fainter bands , the flutmgs closely resembling in character the hydrocarbon flutings , each fluting consisting of a multitude of fine lines closely set on the less refrangible side and becoming wider apart and weaker towards the more refrangible side , but extending under favourable circumstances much further than is shown in the figure .
The set in the green is the stronger , and it was to this that our former observations were confined .
It has two flutings , one beginning at about wave-length 5210 and the other close to bx on its more refrangible side .
The other set consists of three principal flutings , of which the first begins at about wavelength 5618 , the next at about wave-length 5566 , and the third begins with three strong lines at about the wave-lengths 5513 , 5512 , 5511 .
Both sets are very well seen when a magnesium wire is burnt in the edge of a hydrogen flame , and in the arc in a crucible of magnesia when a gentle current of hydrogen is led into it .
The less refrangible edges of the bands are at wave-lengths about 4849 and 4803 .
As Mr. Lockyer , in a paper entitled " A New Method of Spectrum Observation " ( " Proc. Roy , Soc. " vol. 30 , p. 22 ) has brought forward this spectrum as illustrative and confirmatory of his views regarding the possibility of elemental dissociation at different heat-levels , we have been induced to review our former work .
The view taken by Mr. Liockyer may be expressed in his own words .
" The flame spectrum of magnesium perhaps presents us best with Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ May ]2 , the beautiful effects produced by the passage from the lower to the higher heat-level , and shows the important bearing on solar physics of the results obtained by this new method of work .
" In the flame the two least refrangible of the components of are seen associated with a line less refrangible so as to form a triplet A series of flutings and a line in the blue are also seen .
On passing the spark all these but the two components of b are abolished .
We get the wide triplet replaced by a narrow one of the same form , the two lines of b being common to both .
" May we consider the existence of these molecular states as forming a true basis for Dalton 's law of multiple proportions ?
If so , then the metals in different chemical combinations will exist in different molecular groupings , and we shall be able , by spectrum observations to determine the particular heat-level to which the molecular complexity of the solid metal , induced by chemical affinity , corresponds .
" Examples .
None of the lines of magnesium special to the flame spectrum are visible in the spectrum of the chloride either when a flame or a spark is employed .
" In order to ascertain if this spectrum could be produced at a high temperature m the presence of hydrogen , which element we have already shown to be essential to its production at the atmospheric and at reduced pressures , the series of experiments already mentioned in describing the spark spectrum were made with hydrogen at pressures increasing up to twenty atmospheres .
On the supposition that this spectrum originates from the formation of some chemical compound , probably formed within certain limits of temperature when vapour of magnesium is in presence of hydrogen , the stability of the body ought to depend largely on the pressure of the gaseous medium .
Like Graham 's hydrogenium , this body might be formed at a temperature at which it would under ordinary circumstances be decomposed , provided the pressure of the hydrogen were correspondingly increased .
In fact , it has been shown by Troost that the hydrides of palladium , sodium , and potassium all follow strictly the laws of chemical dissociation enunciated by Deville ; and increased pressure by rendering the compound more stable , provided the secondary effect of such pressure in causing a higher temperature in the electric discharge were not overpowering , ought to conduce to a more continuous and brilliant spectrum of the compound .
Conversely , if such a more continuous and brilliant spectrum be found to result , in spite of the highei temperature , from increased pressure , it can only be explained by the stability of the substance being increased with the pressure .
Now what are the facts ?
A\rhen the spark of an induction coil , without a Leyden jar , is passed between magnesium electrodes in hydrogen at atmospheric pressure , the flutings in the green are , as before described , always seen , but they are much stronger at the poles 1881 .
] Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium .
199 uid do not always extend quite across the field .
As the pressure is ncreased , however , they increase in brilliance and soon extend persistently from pole to pole , and go on increasing in intensity , until , at fifteen and twenty atmospheres , they are fully equal in brilliance to ihe i ) group , notwithstanding the increased brightness these have Acquired by the higher temperature , due to the increased pressure .
fThe second set of flutings , those in the yellowish-green , come out as the pressure is increased , and , in fact , at twenty atmospheres only the b group and the flutings are noticeable ; if the yellow magnesium line be visible at all it is quite lost in the brilliance of the yellow flutings .
The tail of fine lines of these flutings extend at the high ^pressure quite up to the green , and those of the green flutings quite up to the blue .
On again letting down the pressure the like phenomena occur in the reverse order , but the brilliance of the flutings does not diminish so rapidly as it had increased .
If , now , when the pressure has again reached that of the atmosphere , a large Leyden jar be interposed in the circuit , on passing the spark the flutings are still seen quite bright , and they continue to be seen with gradually 1 diminishing intensity until the sparks have been continued for a considerable time .
It appears that the compound , which had been formed in large quantity by the spark without jar at the higher pressures , is only gradually decomposed , and not re-formed , by the high temperature of the spark with jar .
This experiment , which was several times repeated , is conclusive against the supposition that the flutings are merely due to a lower temperature .
When the pressure was increased at the same time that the jar was employed , the flutings did not immediately disappear , but the expansion of the magnesium lines and the increase of the continuous spectrum seemed to overpower them .
When nitrogen was substituted for hydrogen , the strongest lines of the green flutings were seen when the spark without jar was first passed at atmospheric pressure , probably from hydrogen occluded , as it usually is , in the magnesium electrodes .
As the pressure was increased they speedily disappeared entirely and were not again seen either at high or low pressures .
With carbonic oxide the same thing occurred as with nitrogen ; but in this gas the flutings due to the oxide of magnesium ( wave-length 4930 to 5000 ) were , for a time , very well seen .
Ciamician ( " Sitzungsber .
Akad .
Wissensch .
, " Wien , 1880 , p. 437 ) i has described a spectrum of magnesium of the first order ( in Pliicker 's nomenclature ) obtained by taking sparks from an induction coil , without a jar , between magnesium electrodes in an atmosphere of hydrogen .
He gives a figure to a scale of this spectrum , but it is not to a scale of wave-lengths , so that exact comparison of his observations with ours is difficult .
The least refrangible set of VOL. XXXII .
p Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ May 12 flutmgs m his figure corresponds very well with that we hav\#171 ; described m the yellowish-green .
The next set , in the green , in his figure does not , however , correspond exactly with ours ; it begins nearer to b than we have observed and consists of four flutings whereas we observe but two in this set .
It looks as if , in his figure ' the magnesium-hydrogen spectrum were superposed upon the hydro ' carbon spectrum in this region .
Further , he gives a third more lefrangible set of flutings-which we have only observed as two blue bands , not fluted .
This third set of flutings , as drawn in his figure appears to be somewhat more refrangible than the set due to the oxide , and occupies partly the place of the blue hydrocarbon series , but a passage m the text , in which he says that the mag nesium spectrum of the second order might , without measurement easily be taken to be identical with that of carbon , almost negatives the supposition that this set of flutings is the blue hydrocarbon set and mistaken for a magnesium spectrum of the first order .
To whatever it may be due , we have not seen anything closely resembling it under the circumstances described by him , though our observations on the spark spectrum of magnesium in hydrogen have now been repeated with all the variations of circumstance which we could devise .
Mr. Lockyer states ( he .
cit.)that none of the lines of magnesium , special to the .flame spectrum , are visible in the spectrum of the chloride , either when a flame or a spark is employed .
But we find that when the spark is taken between platinum points from a solution of the chloride of magnesium , in a tube such as those used by Delachanal and Mermet , the line at wave-length 5210 can frequently be seen in it when the tube is filled with air , and that if the tube be filled with hydrogen the green flutings of magnesium-hydrogen are persistent and strong .
Repeated observations have confirmed our previous statements as to the facility with which the magnesium-hydrogen spectrum can be produced in the arc by the help of a current of the gas .
In a magnesia crucible , by regulating the current of hydrogen , the flutings can be easily obtained either bright or reversed .
Comparison of the Spectra .
When we compare the spectra of magnesium in the flame , arc , and spark , we observe that the most persistent line is that at wave-length 2850 , which is also the strongest in the flame and arc , and one of the strongest in the spark .
The intensity of the radiation of magnesium at this wave-length is witnessed by the fact that this line is always reversed in the flame as well as in the arc when metallic magnesium is introduced into it , and in the spark between magnesium electrodes when a Leyden jar is used .
It is equally remarkable for its power of 1881 .
] Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium .
lexoansion .
In the flame it is a broad band , and equally so in the arc when magnesium is freshly introduced , but fines down to a narrow iline as the metal evaporates . .
, , Almost equal in persistence are the series of triplets .
Only the .least refrangible pair of these triplets is seen m the flame , another pair is seen in the spark , but the complete senes is only seen m the arc .
We regard the triplets as a series of harmonics , and to account 1 for the whole series being seen only in the arc we must look ^ some | other cause than the temperature .
This will probably be oun e greater mass of the incandescent matter contained e cruei e m which the arc was observed . .
The blue line of the flame at wave-length 4570 is well seen in the arc , and is easily reversed , but is always a sharp line , increased m brightness but not sensibly expanded by putting magnesium into the crucible .
In the spark , at atmospheric pressure , it is only seen c ose to the pole or crossing the field in occasional flashes ; but seems to come out more decidedly at rather higher pressures , at least m The series of bands near L , well developed in the flame but not seen at all in the arc or spark , look very much like the spectrum o a compound , but we have not been able to trace them to any Particular combination .
Sparks in air , nitrogen , and hydiogen have a i e to produce them .
The very strong , rather diffuse triplet at M , with which they end , so closely resembles in general character the other magnesium triplets , that it may well be connected with that constitution of the magnesian particle which gives rise to the trip e se s o vibrations in other cases , but , if so , its presence in the flame a one not easily explained .
, The occurrence of this triplet in the ultra-violet , an o \#174 ; markable series of bands associated with it , as well as the e* ^ ordinary intensity of the still more refrangible line at wave-length ZbbV , which is strongly reversed in the spectrum of the flame , corroborates what the discovery of the ultra-violet spectrum of water had revea e , that substances at the temperatures of flames while giving in t e refrangible part of the spectrum more or less continuous radiation , may still give , in the regions of shorter wave-length , highly discontinuous spectra , such as have formerly been deemed characteristic o \#169 ; highest temperatures .
This subject we will not discuss ^ present , but simply remark what we have stated formerly , t a opens up questions as to the enormous power for radiation of s oit wave-length of gaseous bodies at the comparatively low temperature of flame with regard to which we are accumulating facts .
In the arc and spark , but not in the flame , we have next a striking group of two very strong lines at wave-lengths about and 2794 , and a quintuple group of strong but sharp lines above 202 Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium .
[ May 12 , them .
The former are usually reversed in the spark with jar , and all are reversed in the arc when much magnesium is present .
There are also several single lines in the visible part of the spectrum common to the arc and spark .
All of these may be lines developed by the high temperature of the arc and spark .
An indigo and a violet line in the arc have not been traced in the spark , but their non-appearance may be due to the same cause as that above suggested for the non-appearance of the higher triplets , the smallness of the incandescent mass in the spark .
A pair of lines in the arc near U appear to be represented in the spark by an equally strong , or stronger , pair near but not identical in position .
The possibility of such a shift , affecting these two lines only in the whole spectrum and affeoting them unequally , must in the present state of our knowledge be very much a matter of speculation .
Perhaps sufficient attention has not hitherto been directed to the probability of vibrations being set up directly by the electric discharge independently of the secondary action of elevation of temperature .
Some of the observations above described , and many others well known , indicate a selective action by which an electric discharge lights up certain kinds of matter in its path to the exclusion of others ; and it is possible that in the case of vibrations which are not those most easily assumed by the particles of magnesium , the character of the impulse may slightly affect the period of vibration .
The fact that , so far as observations go , the shift in the case of .this pair of magnesium lines is definite and constant , militates against the supposition suggested .
On the other hand , the ghost-like pairs of lines observed in the spark below the triplet near L , suggest the idea that some of the particles have their tones flattened by some such cause .
The strong pair at wave-length 2801 , 2794 , are accompanied in the spark , but not in the arc , by a much feebler , slightly more refrangible pair , but these have not the diffuse ghost-like character of those just alluded to .
These lines are phenomena of the high potential discharge in which particles are torn off the electrodes with great violence , and may well be thrown into a state of vibration which they will not assume by mere elevation of temperature .
There are two lines in the spark besides the well-known line at wave-length 4481 which have nob been observed in the arc , but they are feeble and would be insignificant if it were not the fact that they .
, as well as the line at wave-length 4481 , all short lines seen generally only about the poles , appear to be present in the solar spectrum .
In the sun we seem to have all the lines common to the flame , arc , and spark ( unless the line given in Angstrom 's map at 457(19 be not identical as we believe it to be with the magnesium line ) , andtpossibly , judging by Rutherford 's photograph , the strong triplet of the flame at M ; but one line common West Nerirauni fc C ?
l881\gt ; -j On the Spectra .
203 L the arc and Spark at wave-length 4703 does not appear in Angstrom 's It is hard to account for its absence , as it is presen in ire map .
11 1S nVintooranh We have noticed , however , boff 's map and , ine at wave-length 4570 Ippe^Ttrongev than that at wave-length 4703 , while the .
reverse is the case when the atmosphere is nitrogen .
It ts possible then that % Tmosphere may , besides the resistance it offers to the discharge , in some degree affect the vibrations o\#163 ; the metallic partic es .
When w !
have made all the simplifications that we can by elimi-naUng as we hope we have done satisfactorily , the hydrogen-magnesium flutinvs and by supposing the whole series of triplets to be harmom-related , and possibly some of the single lines also to be similarly related we have still the fact that the chemical atoms of magnesium are either themselves capable of taking up a great variety of vibia-tions or are capable by mutual action on each other , or on particles of matter of other kind , of giving rise to a great variety o ' ' ia 10 " ' the luminiferous ether ; and to trace satisfactorily th- precise^con nexion between the occurrence of the various vibrations and the circumstances under which they occur , will require yet an extended series of observations^ " \#166 ; -js ssasasssS " itsss Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 12 , 1881 .
[ Plate 2 .
] Ih anticipation of a more detailed communication I beg to lay before the Royal Society some of the results of the reduction of six most widened lines between F and b seen m the spe sun-spots , observed at Kensington between November 12th , 1879 , ami September 29th , 1880 , limiting my remarks solely to the spectrum " Tn the accompanying map , the Fraunhofer lines agreeing m position with the iron lines given by Angstrom and Thalen are entered in the horizon headed " Sun , " in the next are plotted the lines assigned to iron by Angstrom , who used the electric arc in h , s experiments .
In the next horizon are entered the iron lines given y Thalen , who employed the induction coil in his experiments .
In these three horizons the lengths of the lines represent their intensities The individual observations of the sun-spots having been plotted out on another map , the number of times each line was seen was tained , and is entered in the next horizon under " Frequencies in \gt ; an ' Spots .
" "

