" On the Moist-Bulb Problem .
" By Captain Shortrede .
Communicated by Lieut.-Colonel W. H. Sykes , F.R.S. The author adopts the notation of Professor Apjohn , and by a similar method deduces the fundamental equation , which is then translated into numbers , taking 1175 ?
F. as the sum of the latent and sensible heats , 0'267 as the specific heat of dry air , the weight of aqueous vapour as five-eighths of that of air , and its specific heat -=0867 , that of water being unity .
The coefficient for barometric pressure is resolved into a simple change on the temperature of the air , and consequently also on the depression of the moist bulb ; and the equation is put into a shape convenient for use , and shown to be free from objection .
T'he author uses the table of the force of vapour , given in the accompanying preceding paper , and then gives a table of maximum depressions for every degree of the moist bulb from -40 ?
to 212 ?
, and another table interpolated from it for every degree of temperature of the air from 0 ?
to 212 ? .
Gay-Lussac 's depressions are then compared with those of the new formula ; and the errors are shown to be almost insensibie near the freezing-point , but increasing gradually , till at 25 Cent. it is about 10 per cent. The author attributes these errors to the gradual deterioration of the chloride of lime during the experiments .
The author then comparesPrinsep 's maximum depressions collected and given in vol. v. of the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal .
The observed depressions are generally below those given by the new formula , like those of Gay-Lussac .
The errors on those where the air was heated by a steam-pipe , are not greater than on those at natural temperatures ; and that with air passing through a porcelain tube at an orange heat , falls within the limits assigned by Prinsep in estimating the temperature of the air .
Apjohn 's maximum depressions are then compared with the new formula .
And here the errors are of an opposite character to those preceding , which the author attributes to the lowering of temperature occasioned by expansion on escaping from the compression used to force the air in a rapid current through the apparatus .
Apjohn 's dew-point observations are then compared , and the errors are found to be similar to the preceding , and apparently from the same cause .
To make the formula generally useful , the author gives a table of the depression of dew-point below temperature for every degree of depression of the moist bulb , at every 5 ?
of temperature from 0 ?
to 100 ?
, and for every 10 ?
from 100 ?
to 140 ?
, which he protracts on a chart , so as to give the dew-point in every case with little more trouble than is required for reading a common thermometer , and also at the same time the elasticity of vapour in the atmosphere .

