8 .
" On the Reflex Function of the Medulla Oblongata and Spinalis , or the principle of Tone in the Muscular System .
" By Marshall Hall , M.D. , F.ll .
S. L. &amp; E. The author , after commenting on the opinions of Le Gallois and Cruveilhier relating to the functions of the spinal marrow , adverts to a property or function of the medulla oblongata and spinalis , which he considers as having escaped the notice of these and all other physiologists ; namely , that by which an impression made upon the exIremities of certain nerves is conveyed to these two portions of the nervous system , and reflected along other nerves to parts different from those which received the impression .
He ciistinguishes muscu ?
lar actions into three kinds : first , those directly consequent on volition ; secondly , those which are involuntary , and dependent on simple irritability ; and thirdly , those resulting from the reflex action above described , and which include those of the sphincter muscles , the tonic condition of the museles in general , the acts of deglutition , of respi ?
ration , and many motions , which , under other circumstances , are under the guidance of the will .
Volition ceases when the head or brain is removed ; vet , as he shows by various experiments , movements may be then excited in the muscles of the limbs and trunk , by irritations applied to the extremities of the nerves which remain in communication with the spinal marrow : but these actions cease as soon as the spinal marrow is destroyed .
Hence the author concludes that they are the effect of the reflex action of the spinal marrow , which exists independently of the brain 5 and , indeed , exists in each part of the organ independently of every other part .
He considers that this reflex function is capable of exaltation by certain agents , such as opium and strychnine , which in frogs produce a tetanic and highly excitable state of muscular irritability .
Hence he is led to view the reflex function as the principle of tone in the muscular system .
He considers that certain poisons , such as the hydrocyanic acid , act by destroying this particular function .
The effects of dentition , of alvine irritation , and of hydrophobia , of sneezing , coughing , vomiting , tenesmus , &amp;c. &amp;c. , are adduced as exemplifications of the operation of the same principle when in a morbid state of exaltation .

