Relation between Magnetic Stress and Magnetic .
19 " On the Relation between Magnetic Stress and Magnetic Deformation in Nickel .
" By E. Taylor Jones , " d.Sc .
Communicated by Professor Andrew Cray , F.R.S. Received January 13 , \#151 ; Read February 25 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments described in the paper constituted an attempt to determine whether the change of length which a nickel wire experiences when placed in a magnetic field can be explained by means of the stresses which are known to exist in consequence of the magnetisation .
Jhe method of calculating the effect of magnetic stresses on the dimensions of a magnetised body was given by Kirchhoff and applied by Canton to the case of an ellipsoid of revolution of soft magnetic material placed in a uniform longitudinal field .
The expression given by Canton for the elongation of an ellipsoid of revolution contains terms representing the effect of Maxwell 's system of stresses , and also terms representing the effect of those stresses which arise in consequence of the fact that magnetisation depends upon strain .
It is shown that the latter terms reduce , when the eccentricity of the ellipsoid is great , to where 81 is the increase of magnetisation of a cylindrical portion of the material caused by an increase of tension 8P per unit area , and H is the magnetising field .
It is also shown by an independent method , due to Professor J. J. Ihomson , that the term ^represents the elongation of a long cylinder of the material , supposed uniformly magnetised , due to the stresses which exist in consequence of the dependence of magnetisation on strain .
Hence , since this term is generally numerically great in comparison with the terms representing the effect of Maxwell 's stresses , a very long cylinder of the material could be used for the measurement of both the magnetic elongation and the effect of tension on magnetisation .
The specimen used in the experiments was a long wire of annealed nickel .
^ The magnetisation and the effect of increase of tension on magnetisation were first measured for a series of field-strengths and for two different tensions , these measurements being made by the ballistic method .
Then the magnetic elongation was measured , in independent experiments , for a series of field-strengths and the same two tensions , it being arranged that the nickel wire was in the same magnetic c 2 20 Dr. M. Lowenthal and Prof. V. Horsley .
On the state in the elongation experiments as in the magnetisation experiments .
The change of length of the wire was magnified and measured by causing a lever , whose arms were in a great ratio , to deflect a mirror which was observed by means of a telescope and scale at a considerable distance .
The observed change of length was always a contraction .
The change of length calculated from the theory of stresses was also ' Si always a contraction , the preponderating term^H \#151 ; being always negative .
The difference between the observed and calculated contractions was , however , considerable , the theory only accounting for a part of the observed contraction .
Diagrams are given showing the values of the magnetisation , of the effect of increase of tension on magnetisation , and of the observed and calculated contractions , all as functions of the field H. It was found that the difference between the observed and calculated contractions was approximately proportional to the fourth power of the magnetisation , a diagram showing that , if this corrected contraction be represented as a function of I4 , the points all lie very near a straight line passing through the origin , the deviations being within the limits of experimental error .
\#171 ; On the Relations between the Cerebellar and other Centres ( namely Cerebral and Spinal ) with especial Reference to the Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
( Preliminary Account .
) " By Max Lowenthal , M.D. ( Wiirz .
) , M.R.C.P. , and Victor Horsley , F.R.S. , F.R.C.S. Received February 8 , \#151 ; Read February 25 , 181)7 .
( From the Laboratory of Chemical Pathology in University College , London .
) The following is a brief summary of certain results which we have obtained in the investigation of the relations prevailing between the cerebellum and other parts of the nervous system , and which we commenced in consequence of an observation made by one of us ( L ) , on the 24th May , 1895 .
This consisted in the observation that when both cerebral hemispheres were removed and , as a result , active extension tonus of the limbs was obtained , excitation ( faradic ) of the upper surface of the cerebellum caused immediate relaxation of such tonus so long as * We venture to propose the term " acerebral " tonus for the phenomenon , to avoid unnecessary periphrasis , and to distinguish it from that observed after removal of the cerebellar hemispheres .

