]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
Report on the Expedition to Sahdol , Rewah State , Central India , to observe the Total Solar Eclipse of 1898 , January 22 By .
H. M. CHIiISTIE .
C.B. , M.A. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal , and Professor H. H. TURNER , F.B.S. Becelved lIay 25 , 1898 .
The Report is presented iu three parts .
Part I is a jolnt Report by the two observers .
Part II is a separate Report by the Astronomer Royal ; and Part III is a separate Report by Professor PART I. 1 .
This expedition was ol.ganised by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee of the Royal Societ and an oyal Astronomical Society , funds being provided from a grant made by the Government Grant Committee .
The Government of India made excellent arranoements for the party , and the Surveyor-General of India with the staff of his Department relldel.ed great service in selecting a site , clearing the 3ungle , establishino a camp , erecting the instruments , and in every asslstance in the observations , for all of which observers to tender their thanks .
The observers are also indebted to the Great Indian Peninsular , the Bengal and Na Rail gpur way , and the East Indian for liberality in ntin facilities and in special arran ement for th or the safe conveyance of .
instruments from Bombay to Sahdol .
2 .
\mdash ; The following persons took part iu the expedition:\mdash ; .
H. M. Christie : , F.R.S. , onomer Boyal .
H. H. Turner , , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of at Oxford .
Harold A. H. , who gave the ex eclipsc for tho Astronomer Royal .
posures hout t .
H. M. Christie and Prof. H. H. It was inally proposed that Dr. A. A. Common , F.R.S. , should also take part in this expedition , but he ultimately found that he unable to do so , and Dr. Copeland , onomer Royal for Scotlaud , was invited by J.P.E. Commiftee to go in place .
Dr. CopeIand preferred , vever , nob to join any of the three other expeditions , but to establish himself independently .
3 .
Itinerar \mdash ; The observcrs left Marseilles in the Peninsular and teamship " " Ballaarat\ldquo ; ( R.M.S. ) , on Thur ; da morning , December 16 , 1897 , their instruments having been put on board this vessel in ten days earlier .
Tbey at Bombay on fonday r , Jalluary 3 , 1898 , the weather .
the voyage excellent .
After a few days spent in landing the } ruments ranging f. their journey to Sahdol , they ] Bombay on iday e , January 7 , direct to Sahdol by special arrangements eously made by the G.I.P. .
East Indian , and and Railways , and arrived at Sahdol in the early lnorning of Sunday , 4 .
Selection of a Station.\mdash ; The J.P.E. Committee ally proosed for this expedition a station south of Poona , near on the S. llaratha Railway or Jeur on G.I.P. Railway , other expeditions occupying stations near Viziadrng on the coast , Pulgaon on the Nagpur branch of the G.I.P. The of India having to sistance to the expeditions , ) ointed lIajor Burrard , , to all necessary arl.angements , including the mination of exact local time and of the longitude and titude of the station .
lIajor Burral 'd selected Karad , in the , as the betit tation .
}-ever , to the outbreak of at that place , and its prevaIence the Bombay Presidency , it was finally decided , the advice of Bombay Government , to abandon this choice to occupy a station at Sahdol , on the to the east of .
Katni and Bilaspur .
As this dense jungle , it necessary to clear a considerable space for the camp , of which } to be occupied by a .
llichie mith , Government onomer at Madras .
This clearing , the ( stablishment the camp , and the erection piers and huts instruments and a dark room for all admirably ried oub by ajor Burrard , , and his ttssistant , ftit , , before the arriv .
of the observers , thus { ound evel.ything ready for the of their instru5 .
Posifion \mdash ; The ) uttllreeters of nlile the railway , on the side of liue .
) position of the centre of { he pier hich the used the .
Royal moullted is\mdash ; on the Solar Eclipse to Longitude E. E. Latitude Height above mean sea level l feet .
This position was determined after the eclipse , by accurate iangulation , connecting the site with the pringulation of the Survey of India .
Professor Turner 's coelostat was 20 feel east of this , and the transit instrument ( used by in his time determinations ) 240 feet due north of it .
This spot is 4 miles tov.ards the south-east the centrad line as shown in the 'Nautical Almanac ' ' niles from the line as shown in the ' Connaissance des Tem niles from the line as shown in the ' ) .
It ps , may be remarked that the data for predicting the four given the ' Nautical Almanac Circular ' -ere found the nearest for which approximate eing itude 7 at a considerable distance i'rom the central ] , and in longitude ( south of Benlal ) , too to give ccurate predictions .
[ See Professor 6 .
Th general al'rangements of the camp ( see next page ) , which consisted of more than fifty tents huts 11-ere already mentioned , carried out Iajol .
Burrard , R.E. , ib , as eing necessary to cIear a considerable ( about by300 ) the jungle by burning and felling trees , in order to set up the numerons tents of the living camp at some distance from the observing .
On part of this clearlng the at 1[adras ( 1Ir .
lIichie Smith ) and his assistants erected their cam ments , and llajor Burrard rendered fo tl is by .
Iihel.e were also sevel'al tents for ) .
ed officers of the Survey , and we had the pleasul.e of at cnmp on the day of the eclipse the , General lVoodthorpe , , Colonel .
T. Holdit other officers , and for a 1 .
' or a ays the eclipse CoIoncl , tvho left us for the Pulgaon Camp on 7 .
IeleorolocJ ical valuable col by , Meteorological Reporter to the UIllcnt of it that the chances fine w same along the line of totality , there } of some chance of dust vitll t country round pted f tection from the of dusf , and the ) } se the ound n the ments in the .
to prcvcnt of il ] .
th : for o Sun SAHD OL Central nd 1898 .
REFEBENCE .
1 .
r i s t i e , .
C. B. , F. .
S. 14 .
Captain W. Ewbank , 1l .
E. Lieut. H. L. Crosthwait , R.E. 15 ' , I. bI .
S. : ; .
:}less .
16 .
Ma(lras Mess .
4 .
Protcsbor H. H. Turner , F. Ii .
S. 17 .
Doctor J. W. Evans .
j. 3Ir .
C. H. McA'Fee .
S. G. .E .
18 .
AF .
N.MoosF..W.Lawrellae .
8 .
E. 1 .
Bullen , It .
7 .
eorge .
19 .
T. H. Holditch , K. C.I.E. , 20 . .
J. A. .
E. 11 .
C. .E .
E. 21 .
Professor Turner 's coelostat .
St. .
O. Gor B.E. .
Dark room .
G. Woo , C.B. , It .
E. 23 .
Illstrument teut .
13 .
Nr .
C. Michicr Slnit 1 RejJort on the Sotar Eclipse xjJedition to Sahdol .
path of the rays from the sun to the coelostats , which were placed at a height of only 2 feet 8 ches from the ground .
The character of the weather was practically uniform during our stay at Sahdol .
At night the mlnlmum temperature was about up to January 20 , afterwards a little warmer ( nob falling below on nuary 2 and 24 ) .
At about 7.30 , soon after sunrise , the temperature began to rise rapidly , a maximum of about at about 2 , and remaining near this point from oon till about 4.30 , when a fall nearly as sudden as the rise bogan .
The was nearly saturated with moisture at and dry in the daytime .
There was heavy hoar frost at night .
rfhese conditions seriously , limited the available for photography , which could only be carried on conveniently during the hot of the day , .
say from 10 .
to 6 or , as there was no ready means of warmmg the water the dark room .
The first clouds seen since the party landed in India were light fleecy clouds in the of Wednesday , , and more appeared in the early morllings of January 20 and , dispersing in each case between 10 and 11 .
The day of the eclipse was perfectly cloudless throughout , and the definition good .
[ For detailed readings of thermometers and barometer , see separate Report by Professor Turnsr .
] S. Instruments , .
[ See separate Beports of the observers .
] 9 .
Huts.\mdash ; The chances of rain being so small , huts were not considered , and the instruments were protected by rush thatchings laid on a framework of bamboo , which couId be readily removed as 10 .
Assistance.\mdash ; The observers were assisted in the exposUl.es as below:\mdash ; The Astronomer Royal\mdash ; .
McA'Fee. . . . . . . . . . . .
Recorded times of exposure . .
Harold Christie . . . . .
at objective .
Vishnoo Babaji .
Handed plates .
Venayek Narayan . . . . . . .
Received plates .
Dondu Venayek . . . . . . . . .
Exposed objective .
Hammant . . . . . . .
Handed plates .
Shallkal Devidas . . . . . . . .
Received plates .
Also Govind Balwant Joshi. . . .
Narayan Vishnoo Counted scconds aloud .
A few seconds before totality , as shown by the dimiuishin , crescent of the suIl , Professor Turner was to call " " \ldquo ; ; at totality to call sharply ( the monosyllable " " Tup " " was used ) .
first time .
bfr W. H. M. Christie and Prof. H. H. Turner .
keeper immediafely started the stop.watch and proceeded to count aloud " " one , two , \ldquo ; \amp ; c. , up to sixty , when the second timekeepe ] .
took up the counting , " " one , two , three \amp ; c. By having timekeepers , opportunity was given to both to see the eclipse .
The operations were rehearsed on every day of the week preceding the eclipse , at the time of totality , and on two days also at dusk , with lamps .
A hut with a supply of chemicalq was supplied from the CsJcutta office of the Surveyor-General 's Department , and Mr. George , of that department , was told off to assist in the pbotographic lvolk .
He developed some of the raphs taken by the Astronomer Royal during the partial phases .
11 .
Day of the Eclipse.\mdash ; Perfectly clear throughout .
The ning was Hpent in final preparations .
The first contact occurl'ed at mins .
local mean time , and the Astronomel Royal proceeded to take nine photographs of the partial phase , the first being exposed at mius .
, and the last at 1 mins .
Totality commenced at 1 mins .
, and lasted about 105 seconds , during which time the programmes detailed below were carried out .
Nins more partial phase photographs were taken between 1 mins .
and 2 mins .
The fourth contact was at mins .
( see accurate times below ) .
a good deal of light during totality , and lamps were not in any way needed .
The temperature fell between first and second contacts , and another between second contact and 2 .
It practically returned to its normal value by the fourth ( accurate readinoSa .
below ) .
But the fall of temperature did not lleally represent the sensation of chill .
At 1.15 , when air felt distinctly chilly , the temperature Lad only fallen There ) ' no appreciable " " shadow\ldquo ; effect at totality , nor was auy such effect noticed by two observers ( Gencral Woodthorpe , R.E. , Colonel .
T. Holditch , ) from the top of a hill a few miles , close to the central line .
These observers did , however , notice the well known " " bands\ldquo ; on the table thoy had prenred for ithout having previously heard these bands ally We had not } tunities of the behavioul of .
Kites which had been circling ronlld the calnp flew off to ounding trees some minutes before totality , and the time cries from the village of .
We told by anoher observel .
( Professor E. G. Hil ] , of Allahabad ) that at Buxar had noticed a herd of goats get into line and mftrch home ; that two mongooses in a hole in a bank ] seemed very mucb htened ; th squirrels were lent d totality , and a fish .
REPOnT BY MR. W. H. The of observation was composed of two distincb parts\mdash ; ( 1 ) raphs of the on a scale duriug totality ; ' of the ] phase before and after lity for tion of of the moon relatively to the sun .
The instrument used in both cases was the raphic telescope of 9 inches aperture and in .
length ( presented to t'oe Royal Obsel'vatory by Sir to a concave } ) OUlld lens by DallmeJ-er , of 3 inches and 12 inches been fitted as a dary mifier , short distance ithin t focus .
This combination of the sun inches dimeter , and a field ( full pencils ) of neal .
lie inches , so that the corona to a distance of one and half adii f the n 's ] old be included the field .
A coelost specially by .
Common , a plane mirl'or of 16 diameter , made by him , employed to reflect the ra .
is into the Thompson raph , which mounted on brick piers , so as to point to the mirror au le of ession of about , and to be placed in imuth of north of west for the day of the .
The camera furnished igiJ t plateholders , in .
plates , sevell being reserved ' use ring totality , and the hth fitted ith installtaneous focal-plalle shutter , to take graphs .
plates during the phases , for of } moon:sposition .
seven slides for photograpbs of the tot lity below , the exp screen Plate .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud .
xp , Eud tion . .
Se 1 1 Ilford dilute .
3 Ilford rapid. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
cked ) coll.odio ) \ldquo ; .
H. M. Christie .
in front of the object-glass by my son Harold , and the times , reckoned from the commencement of totality ( 2nd contact ) , being recorded by Mr. Mc A'Fee , of the Indian Survey Department .
It had been intended to use Hill-Norris dry collodion " " Gazelle\ldquo ; plates for three of the slides ( the fineness of as compared with geIatine plates giving them a marked advantage ) , but from trials made before ths eclipse it was found that these plates were for some reason untrustworthy .
, however , thought it to expose one of these plates , but the result is not satisfactory .
The sky was cloudless during the eclipse , and the programme was carried out without a hitch , with the aid of two native assistants of the Department ( Mr. .
B. Garnd and Mr. .
Narayen ) , who handed me the slides and received them from me , and there was fifteen seconds to spare before end of totality , the duration at Sahdol being 1 secs .
as observed .
For the partial phase , nine photographs were taken between first and secoud contacts , and eight between third and fourth contacts , as well as a photograph for orientation ( with double exposure ) immediately before and after the .
The aperture of the objectlass was reduced to 3 inches for these raphs , as it was found by trials before the eclipse that with the aperture reduced the exposure given by the Thornton-Pickard shutter set to its highest speed was for the slow plates used ( Thomas 's lantern plates ) .
The times of exposnre were recorded on a raph , key being pressed by me in the left hand at the same instant as the was given by pressing a pneumatic ball in the igbt hand .
The times of the fall of the shutter were also independently recorded by Mr. with a chronometer carefully compaled with the transit-clock .
All the ements for accurate local time , which was of vital portance for this part of the ranlme , and for determinaticn of the longitude of the station by connection with the pl'incipal trianguIation of the Survey of , were mosl ably rried out by Major Burral 'd , , and Lieut. Crosthwait , R.E. The position of my ument , as found by them aftel the eclipse , was Long. E. , Lat. ' N. Altitude bove sea-level feet .
The coronagraph was carefully focussed before the eclipse by use of the method described in the Report of the Eclipse Expedition to Japan , the image of an object auze net in the plalle of the late ) , being photographed by reflection the plane mirror of the coelostat .
A special spare back for the plateholder was prepal.ed with a hole covered with gauze net just above the centre , one of the in .
plates being cut in two , one half was placed the half of the plateholder and the reflected image photo* ' Monthly Notices , ' R.A.S. , vol. 57 , p. 101 Report on the Solar Eclipse Expedition to Sahdol .
graphed on it at different parts of the field , the source of being a paraffin lantern .
The adjustment focus was made by moving the secondary nifier , rings of paper placed eell flanges on the adapter the magnifier and its mounting giving the means of doing this great nicety .
By this me , in which the error from imperfect focus is doubled by the double passa of the rays through the telescope , it was found that a acement of the magnifier through the of a sheet of paper inch , representing part of the focal length , made a sensible difference .
The focus was thus obtained with great accuracy , as is evidenced by the shal pness of the image on the photographs taken during the partial phase .
The rapbs with exposures of 8 secs .
, 10 secs .
, and 20 secs .
all show corollal structure up to the edge of the plate , the stleamer in the S.W. being pal'ticularly bright .
A hurried eye imation made by me during the 20 seconds ' exposul.e gave the extreme extension of this eamer as abont of the distance of Venus from the centre , or about from the ] .
The field being necessarily limited by the diameter of the concave enlarging lens ( 3 in it would be desirable to have one made of larger diameter for future eclipses so as to allow of the use of larger plates .
A compal'ison of the whole series of raphs iudicates a close correspondence between the eamers and the prominences visible , this correspondence being particularly striking in the case of three prominences in the N.W. quadrant which three col.onal rays rise , arching over at a distance of about 7 ' from the limb and uniting to form one component of the double ray in that .
Other on the Sun 's limb appeal ' also to be associated with extensions of the corona .
The fol.nl of the corona bore a closer general resemblance to those of 1886 and 1896 as photographed than would have been expected ConS e the of the eclipse was so much nearer the epoch of minimum SU11bpotf , and in this connection it may be noted that there three important grou of spots on the Sun about the time of the cclipse , and that a series of ebic disturbances of moderate amount were recorded at Greenwich just prior to the eclipse , from Jallutry to 21 , indicating an unusual state of netic activity close correhpondence with the activity as cnced by the Sun spots . ?
III.\mdash ; BY OFESSOR ER .
Instru ) Equipment .
1 .
.\mdash ; The double camera used in the Fundinm Expedition of lS93 by Kearlley , and taken out to Japan in 1896 YYithout result .
The tube is of wood , 6 { eet long and inches in section , divided ) a tubes of section .
In one of these is placed the " " Abney\ldquo ; * lens of 4-inch aperture -inch focal .
an of the sun inch in meter ; the ' the raph objective No. 2 ( llsed in ) of expeditions ) , of 4-inch aperture and 5-feet focal ] , with a ) secolld nifier of inches inches within , and giving an of the in diamcteF ; the camera furnished with six plateholders , eacb iking two ates of .
( as in use for the nhico .
, both plates being exposed by a quarter-turn of one shuttel 2 .
The ( .\mdash ; The camel.a was pointed to a inch coelostat , the ' of which was made by Dr. Common , the mounting and clock by .
J. Hnmmersley by DComnlon .
3 .
\mdash ; On the tube , and to the same a pol.iscopic aatus consisting of an ordinary slit oscope ( and telescope ) , with Iceland spar double inlage substituted for the isms .
The ument in its normal stnte ) eetl used by ndel .
in the eclipse raphing the spectrum of the corona .
It is fitted ith two olders .
The dimensions as follow:\mdash ; Objective . . . . . .
inches ] .
, , , , , , , , , 9 The use ) will be understood from the of the cctroscope , Iceland spar as a only two two ]-inds of polal'ised light .
cfill thus nse a wide slit , .
it until the two images of the slit are just vitho overlap .
This We'lS found to bappe1l in use lvith a slit of .
The doublet phic lens by Dallmeyel , ing to Captaiu the Expeditions of , ISS7 , ISS9 , 1893 , 1896 , acq by Roytll A strouomical Qociety in 1893 icnt use itio 1 , in of replacement by on th .
Eclipse Expedition to dianletcr of the rown on the slit bein , inch , it was thoug.ht best to take the photographs , so as to iuclude opposite lilnbs of the eclipsed sun , and as much of the corona as could bc got .
The from one portion of the snn to another was anged by having two slits :\mdash ; The slits vero cut in a piece of blackened , the acbual size of which is in the .
lf the line ABCD had been to the moon 's , half the moon and corona would in first tance have ppeared in the middle of the lower slit , .
In this position the first , producin the plate two es side by side of the limb of the eclipsed sun , one } nage b due to light polarised plane pacallel to CD , ttnd othel ' to in the plane .
For the next exoosnre the card was slipped down in the groove in which it , and the left limb of the eclipsed sun fell on the middle of tlJe slit AB ; and es of the rest of the corona would be obtained .
By combining the could a of a slice of the inch inch wide , the moon inchef ; into eters of the moon 's , five long and ters vide .
As of of the llot acljusted ally on the line ABCD , and a nlolc of the moon 's disc lred on one photograph on the other , this tely f. for a special reason , in the phtgaphs obtained .
' Coelcsfaf.\mdash ; The adj ustment of the } ) is was mado as described iu the Report Japau by of the theodolites .
, those with the thv Aoticcs , , 1 .
Prof. H. H. Turner .
being made on the meridian , and compared with the known latitude so as to give the same sign to the elrors as the sun observations:\mdash ; Date .
Sun 's H.A. Obs. decl .
Tab. decl .
O.\mdash ; C. Jan. 11 Observation with ] evel ( Adjusted in azimuth and altitude .
) Observation with level Obsel'vation with level [ These ) servations vere made with a dummy axis , before the mirror and its cell were mounted on January 19 .
] Jan. 21 Observation with level [ Adjusted level : rbed by the weight of the and its cell .
] with level [ As seemed some ibration in the instrument , the end of the holding the mirror was supported by a wooden block dri undet it ; this again altered the level , which was readjusted .
] 0 .
ation with level Obserration with level \ldquo ; 23 , . . .
tion with level It will be seen that the oduction of the wooden block as a partial support to the coelostat disturbed the adjustments slightly , IJUt it did not seem advisable to attempt to corl'ect these small which would have been a troublesome process with the stl'ess of the wooden block to consider .
The block certainly deadened the vibraions .
6 .
of Mirror.\mdash ; If the mirror is llob parallel to the axis of lotation the will nob be quite stationary .
* Both instruments were tested for this error by reversing the and cell in the 's and noting the consequent displacement of the sun 's image on the gl.ound glass il the focal plane of telescopes .
Ihe displacement , * ' vol. 56 , p. 417 .
Report on Solar Eclipse Expedition to Sahdol .
la giving double the inclination of mirror to axis , was found by C. on January 19 to be ; and was corrected after several trials to be , denoting an error of .
The correction was mads by screwing a short screw , made purpose , into one of the holes at the of the mirror cell .
[ There are three of these holes , into which long screws are screwed in the operation of inserting the mirror into its cel T. was examined on the same day , and being found to be sensibly parallel to the axis , no correction necessary .
7 .
Focussing of Telescopes.\mdash ; The method adopted was that described in the Report on the Japan Expedition .
* The telescope was pointed normally to the mirror , and the image of a bright point or object in the plane of the film was raphed on the film .
A glass plate .
cut in two , one half was blackened with asphalte , and the word " " astl'onomy\ldquo ; printed on it by scratchiug with a needle point .
This was the object raphed in the following experiments .
had been made in England by eans of which the three lenses ( the Abney lens , the photoheliograph lens , and lens ) could be set accurately to positions in the wooden tube .
good focus .
Positions at definite distances from these could be obtained by unscrewing the object glasses through fi.actions of a turn .
If positions were required within the position , the object glass was first pushed iu slightly ; and theu it was noted what fraction of a turn it must be nnscrewed to bring it to the gauge-position .
nating the gaugeposition by zero , and one turn out by , ons turn inside by the following positions were :\mdash ; Abney Lens , Plate 1 , January 16 , positions .
Three images on same plate , the best .
Plates 2\mdash ; 5 were devoted to experiments on illuminants .
A candle was found most convenient after all .
Plate 6 , January 16 , positions ; not on plate the best , if exposures rightly identified .
Plate 7 , annary 16 , positions ; the best of these .
Plate 8 ( January 16 ) .
To make sure pushed still ther in .
The above differences were positions , the best .
Hencc on this day focus seems at , or very close to it .
* ' vol. 57 , p. Prof. H. H. Turner .
Lens Enlarger .
Plate 9 , Junuary 16 , , 00 , positions ; the best .
Plate 10 , Jannary16 , positions ; the best .
Plate 11 , positions .
Both ures were worse thau the others .
Of the others was perhaps best near the centre , and ( or further from centre .
Hence adopbed , i.e. , the object glass was screwed one-half out .
The screw ] turns to the inch ; and the focussing was thus correct to inch , as far as could be judged .
continued ) .
Plate 12 , positions ; , ; good ; distinctly inferior .
This contradicts nothing but plate on which the exposnres may be wrongly identified , and if on that plate is missing instead of , then would be the best on plate .
Hence was dopted .
[ At 21- ) turns to the inch this focus was also correct to inch .
] 8 .
of ations.\mdash ; The six , lides for photographs of the corona were filled as , the same ] ates being used for the Dallmeyer and ) lenses in each case , and ndard squares having been impressed on plates 2 , 4 , , 6 , by Captain Hills , before plates out from .
of Exposul'e .
1 1 sec. 2 secs .
1 sec. 6 2 secs .
late .
colJodion " " Gazelle Ilford " " Empress Rocket .
ford " " \ldquo ; Ilford " " ' Ilford " " \ldquo ; Besides these the two exposures ' polariscopic ftpparntus ere made , each of 5 seconds ' duration , Paget plates being used .
The developel used was amidol these plates , which were exposed .
of ' Turner by , Major Burl'ard , .
The former used and contncts a pocket watch whiclJ as clock at 8.5 and found secollds ; and found seconds fast , of local time .
At second third it sharp ) rime of which Report ) the Sotar Eclipse rpedition to Sahdol .
noted by .
McA'Fes on a mean time chronometer , compared lvith the clock both before and after .
The contacrs } ' observed by owing a 4-inch { of the sun on white } from a navy-pattern telescope .
[ Aperture 2 iuches , foca ] length inches , magnifying power of eyepiece 21 or Burrard observed with a telescope , and recorded his times on the cronol.aph in conncction with the sidereal clock .
This clock was a glass hut and subjected a nriation of of tempel'ature , but great care taken with the star observations , as will be ined in detail in the final of the Astronomer Royal .
The local mean times of the star ations for clock error ( by Jlajor Burrard ) were January 21 days mins .
58 secs .
, and days 7 secs , and the errors of the clock at these times were , secs .
and secs .
respcctively .
Local Times of the Four Contacts .
10 .
on Formuloe for Predict,.on of tioned in raph 5 of the joint report of the Astronomer Royal and Professor Turner , the data for the four were found insnfficient .
This will be seen by of the two columns , wherein the times as given by the published formulae most suitable for Sahdol are given .
On application to the Superintendent of the 'Nautical Almanac , ' kindly the data the third column , giving G.M.T.s of the , to hich itude of Sahdol has been plied .
[ The position of Sahdol is 5 mins .
secs .
E. , Lat. N. ] As his letter contains a suggestion ) ' bc .seful to observers , I reproduce it here .
Prof. H. H. Turner .
' ' Nautical Almanac Office , " " March 26 , 1898 .
" " Dear Turner , You will find the deduction of the formulae ( used in .
Circular No. 16 ' and others ) in appendix .
1836 , p. These equations will give sensible accuracy a distance of about 50 miles from the point for which they are computed .
In this case the distance is about 150 miles .
" " I find that the most expeditious way of getting accurate resuIts in this work , is to use the Besseliatl Elemsnts ( page 4 of circnlar No. 16 ) .
You can infer the time of middle of eclipse to the nearest minute from the Table on p. 3 of circular , and then 10 minutes work gives you the times of inning and of totality with sensible accuracy .
" " Of course for accur determinations of times of first and last contacts phase computations for the approximate times of these contacts would be necessary .
" " Yours very " " A. M. W. DOWNING The remarks on the geometrical nificance of these formulae may not be out of place .
The time of a contact at a place of geocentric Iatitude and itude is given by a pair of equations of this form siu .
Write hese in the form where is tlJe point and a point whose geocentric latitude and itude are ivell by the equations is the arc of the sphere between and Similarly for the point In the case of the second and third contacts , totality , { he equations only differ in of : so that the duration of totality is constant when is constant .
The condition gives us points for which the eclipse is total for an instant , i.e. , the on the borders of the totality belt .
But from the eqnRtion Report on the Solar ) to we see that is constant when the arc is constant , i.e. , the arc of a circle described with centre and radius The bounding lines of the totality belt given us by the approximate of the 'Nautical Almanac cular , ' are tious of small circles of the sphere .
Now , suppose we have formulae given for the bbourhoods o two points and on the central line ; for which and are the centres of the approximate loci of totality .
Then the mate formulae for will us as the northern boundary of the zone the circular arc , touching true line at , bnt south of it eIsewhere ; and the approximate formulae for will us the arc .
Thus at the mediate point , both formulae give errors in the same direction ; and unless the points and are tolerably close together we cannot get a oood prediction for intermediate points by simple interpolation .
The true lines Aa , Bb , Cc , are the elopes of such circles as AD , BE , CF , as we travel along the central line , travelling the path in correspolldence .
It is to be noted further , that the approximate give constant duration of totality along the Iine BI which is bhe approxicentral line ( given by ) : whereas duration ener .
ally as we go east or west .
But tion betweell ults for and would probably give the means of .
for this chaDge .
If instead of the duration of totality , we the time of one the contacts , the approximate loci are no circles , but curves of the the geometry is less simple ; but these curves will have the line for their envelope just as the circles did .
Now , if the contact of the circles or the curves with is of the secon order interpolation ber , omes possible , for the circl c envolope and thus the etroduced is st V0L .
Prof. H. H. Turner .
and \mdash ; to the west .
The test of this is to calculate the contacts for with the iven for , and compare with for ; similarly calculate the contacts with the constants given for and compare with the lrue values for B. If the errors are of opposite , then the curve crosses the euvelope , and the contact is of the second .
A few experimental calculations of this kind , with the data of ' N.A. Circular , No. 16 ' seem to show , however , that the contact is not generally of the second order , and the approximations are thus subject to the disadvantages above indicated .
11 .
Meteorologicat Observations.\mdash ; Lieut. Crosthwait , R.E. , has kindly supplied the following particulars of the observations : \mdash ; They were made from 1898 , January 14 , to January 24 inclusive , by the following observers : \mdash ; Venayek Nara a , Narayan vishnoo Apt , Govind Ramchandra Bhabhi , and Vishnoo Babaji Garnd .
The thermometers attached to a suspended to the north side of a grass hut , an overhanging roof , completely shading them from the sun 's rays at all times of the day .
Height above ound and other dimensions shown in accompanying The situation is open , towards the north , on a gently llndulating plain , about 1500 feet above sea Ievel .
The only hills in the hbourhood are from 2000\mdash ; 3000 feet high , distant about miles .
ving instruments were used : A maximum and minimum mometer No. 20,443 by Hicks ; a wet and dry bulb No. by relti and ambra ; a mountain mercurial barometer , on a , No. by L. Casella .
Report on Solar Eclipse Expedifion to Sahdol .
Before beginning , the following comparisons were made with a ndard thel.mometer No. 93,638 by Casella:\mdash ; Standard 11ead. . . . . . .
Dry bulb , , . . . . . . .
correction Wet , , , , . . . . . . .
, , lIaximum , , . . . . . . .
, , Minimum , , . . . . . . .
, , The wet and dry bulb , and the barometel its attached thermometer , were read every half hour from 5 .
till 8 .
or later .
The maximum thermometer was read at 4 , the imum at 10 On the of the eclipse , observations were made of wet and dry bulb and barometer , and also of the standard therooometer No. 93,638 ) every five minutes .
The rometer was very steady througho our stay , near .
; and it seems scal'cely necessal.y to publish details .
The wet and dry bulbs both followed very closely the sbown in the ched d , the deviations from the curve seldom exceeding a or two .
To avoid needless , the followcf on the Eclipse vpedition to Sahdol .
ing particulars for a number of on January 21 , 22 and 23 are given illustrations:\mdash ; xcess of Beadings of Thermometers over the Typical Curves shown in the Diagram .
Dry bulb .
Wct bulb .
Ho .
Jan. 21 .
Jan. 22 .
Jan. 23 .
Jan. 21 . .
Jan. 23 .
, . . . . ?
, , . . . .
[ The anomalous readings of dry bulb at 6 ] , and of wet bulb at 6 .
on January 23 , are apparently not mistakes , unless neighbouring observations are similarly affected .
] may thus take it that the typical curves of the represent with considerable accuracy what would have been the state of on January 22 , if the eclipse had not taken place .
then the readings during the eclipse with this curve , get the following differences , which may be regarded as the e#ect of ipse .
ffect of the Eclipse on Temperature as shown by Five-lIinute Readings .
of day .
mins .
Drv bulb .
Wct bulb .
( NOON ) 5 0 .
15 First contact 0.0 Report on the Sotar Eclipse E.xpedition to rature as shown by Iinute bulb .
Wet " " Total Solar Eclipse of January 22 , 1898 .
Preliminary Report ations made at Ghoglee ; Central By Professor RALPH , Astronomer for Scotland .
Received lIay 10 , 1898 .
the month of August , 1897 , I was invited by the Joint Permallent .
Eclipse Committee to take part in observing the total solar eclipse which occurred in lndia on uary of the present The preparation of the equipment , which will be described on , at once proceeded with , and by the sanctiom of the University authorities and the Secretary for Scotland I was

