On the magnetizing Power of the more refrangible Solar Rays .
By Mrs. M. Somerville .
Communicated byW .
Somerville , M.D. F.R.S. February 2 , 1826 .
Read February 2 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part II .
p. 132 .
] In the year 1813 , Professor Morichini , of Rome , announced that steel exposed in a particular manner to the concentrated violet rays of the prismatic spectrum becomes magnetic .
His experiments , however , having uniformly failed in other hands , had ceased to excite general attention ; especially in this country , whose climate is usually so unfavourable for such researches .
The unusual clearness of weather last summer , however , induced Mrs. Somerville to make the attempt .
H1-aving , at that time , no information of the manner in which Prof. Morichini 's experiments were conducted , it occurred to her , however , as unlikely that if the whole of a needle were equally exposed to the violet rays , the same influence should at the same time produce a south pole at one end , and a north at the other of it .
She therefore covered half of a slender sewing needle , an inch long , with paper , and fixed it in such a manner as to expose the uncovered part to the violet rays of a spectrum , thrown by an equiangular prism of flint glass on a panel at five feet distance .
As the place of the spectrum shifted , the needle was moved so as to keep the exposed part constantly in the violet ray .
The sun being bright , in less than two hours the needle , which before the experiment showed no signs of polarity , had become magnetic ; the exposed end attracting the south pole of a suspended magnetic needle , and repelling the north .
No iron was near to disturb the experiment , which was repeated the same day , under similar circumstances , with a view to detect any source of fallacy in the first attempt , but with the same result .
The season continuing favourable , afforded daily opportunities of repeating and varying the experiment .
Needles of various sizes ( all carefully ascertained to be free from polarity ) , and exposed in various positions with regard to the magnetic dip and meridian , almost all became magnetic ; some in a longer , some in a shorter time , varying from half an hour to four hours , but depending on circumstances not apparent .
The position of the needles seems to have had no influence , but the experiments were generally more successful from 10 to 12 or 1 o'clock than later in the day .
The exposed portion of the needle became ( with a few exceptions ) a north pole ; exceptions possibly attributable to some predisposition in the needle itself to magnetism too slight to be observed .
The distance of the needle from the prism was varied without materially varying the effect .
It was found unnecessary to darken the room , provided the spectrum was thrown out of the direct solar rays .
The next object was to ascertain whether the other prismatic colours had the same property as the violet .
Needles ( previously ascertained to be unmagnetic ) exposed to the blue and green rays sometimes acquired magnetism , though less frequently , and requiring longer exposure ; but the magnetism when communicated seemed equally strong as in the case of the violet rays .
The indigo succeeded nearly as well as the violet .
In all cases , the exposed end usually became a north pole .
But in no one instance was magnetism produced by the yellow , orange , or red rays , though in some cases the same needles were exposed to their influence for three successive days , neither did the calorific rays produce any effect .
Pieces of clockand watch-spring were next tried with similar success , and they were even found more susceptible of the peculiar magnetic influence than needles ; possibly from their greater proportional surfaces , or their blue colour .
The violet rays concentrated by a lens produced magnetism in a shorter time than the prism alone .
Experiments were next instituted by transmission of the solar rays through coloured media .
Three needles , half covered with paper as before , were exposed on a stone outside a window , under a blue glass coloured by cobalt , to a hot sun for three or four hours .
They were rendered feebly magnetic , and when examined next day were found to have lost their magnetism ; a circumstance found occasionally to take place afterwards , as the season advanced and the force of the sun diminished .
No iron was near , nor did the stone show any signs of influence on a suspended magnetic needle .
The experiment was repeated next day , leaving two needles six hours exposed , when the magnetism communicated was found to be very sensible , and is still retained by them at the distance of six months .
Pieces of clock-spring which had been heated to deprive them of magnetism also became magnetic when so exposed .
The rays transmitted through the glass employed in this experiment , blackened muriate of silver as powerfully as those transmitted through uncoloured glass , proving its free permeability to the chemical rays .
Green glass was next tried , and the rays which penetrated it were found to communicate magnetism .
Neutral pieces of watch-spring were then half exposed ( when wrapped in violet and green ribands , and fastened inside of the frame of a window , ) to the sun 's rays all day .
In the evening both had become magnetic , and the parts which received the rays transmitted through the ribands became north poles .
Similar pieces were then freely exposed ( half covered as all along with paper ) to the white light of the sun , with neither prism glass nor riband ; and though the heat was greater than before , no mag " netism was produced .
The same result was afterwards obtained in comparative trials ; the steel was found to be no way affected by white light .
As the season advanced and the sun 's force diminished , these effects became more feeble , and further experiments were in consequence deferred till the return of summer ; but from the experiments here detailed , the authoress thinks herself entitled to regard a magnetic influence in the more refrangible solar rays as demonstrated .

