396 Dr. S. P. Thompson .
A Physiological [ Apr. 14 , have done at first .
We now stopped the water current for a time , in the expectation of getting at the fundamental note of the animal by eliminating the subordinate tones .
It still responded , but very slightly , to all the notes as before , but was unquestionably more sensitive about B flat and A flat .
I am , of course , aware that most of the preceding experiments may be interpreted as either tactual or auditory reactions , and , if it is possible at all to distinguish these.two phenomena in the lower aquatic animals , the fact that they are not necessarily auditory does not justify one in concluding , as some recent observers have done , that they are therefore tactual .
In the case , however , of the experiments conducted on the physical table , it is , to my mind , difficult to deny a true auditory sense to But this sense ( whatever its nature ) seems to be extremely restricted , and only a few tones appear to be appreciated .
A Physiological Effect of an Alternating Magnetic Field .
By Silvanus P. Thompson , D.Sc .
, F.B.S. ( Received April 4 , \#151 ; Read April 14 , 1910 .
) Down to the present time it has been held by all physicists and by all physiologists that magnetism produces no physiological effect either on the human subject or on any living organism .
Many persons have looked for such effects .
Lord Lindsay ( now the Earl of Crawford ) , assisted by Mr. Cromwell F. Yarley , constructed many years ago an enormous electromagnet , * now in the Observatory at Edinburgh , so large that it would admit between its poles the head of any person , who wished to test whether a strong magnetic field would have any sensible effect .
Nothing whatever was perceived as the result .
I have , however , recently succeeded in demonstrating a real physiological effect due to magnetism .
Some six years ago , when experimenting with an alternating electro-magnet which had been constructed for showing Prof. Elihu Thomson 's well-known experiments on the repulsion of copper rings , I observed a faint visual effect when my forehead was placed close to the magnet .
Recently , incited thereto by finding Lord Kelvin 's mention of the negative * See Lord Kelvin 's 'Popular Lectures and Addresses , ' vol. 1 , p. 261 .
1910 .
] Effect of an Alternating Magnetic Field .
results in Lord Crawford 's experiments , I have further explored the matter , and have found a means of producing the visual effect ( which is physiological and subjective ) in a way that succeeds with every person on whom it has yet been tried .
An alternating magnetic field of sufficient intensity and extent was produced by passing an alternating electric current around a specially constructed magnetising coil .
This coil , consisting of 32 turns of stranded copper wire , having an equivalent cross-section of about 0'2 square inch in each turn , was wound upon a wooden cylinder about 9 inches in diameter , and about 8 inches in length ; the cylinder being then removed .
The alternating current , of a frequency of 50 periods per second , could be increased up to 180 amperes at will ; so that the total number of ampere-turns reached 5760 .
The intensity of the alternating magnetic field at the centre of this coil had , therefore , a virtual value ( quadratic mean ) of about 1000 C.G-.S .
units ; and its instantaneous maximum value ( at the centre of the coil ) was therefore about 1400 C.G.S. units .
The value at the mouth of the coil was not much more than two-thirds of this amount , and was not uniform over the cross-section of the interior space .
On inserting the head into the interior of the coil , in the dark , or with the eyes closed , there is perceived over the whole region of vision a faint flickering illumination , colourless , or of a slightly bluish tint .
The period of the flicker is not well defined .
It does not seem to be the same over the whole region of vision at the same time , nor is it equally bright over the whole region of vision , but is somewhat brighter in the peripheral region than in the central parts .
Even in daylight , with the eyes open , one is conscious of a sensation of flicker superposed upon the ordinary visiou .
The effect is diminished by lowering the intensity of the field , and increased by raising it .
Attempts to discover whether the brightness of the phenomenon stands in any relation to the direction of the axis of the field with respect to the principal axes of the skull have not yet revealed any definite result .
It will be necessary to apply more intense fields than have yet been tried .
No after-effects of any kind have been experienced either by myself or by any of the persons who have made the experiments with me .
As yet it has not been possible to ascertain whether varying the frequency has any effect on the phenomenon .
The phenomenon is so distinct , when once it has been seen , that it is difficult to believe that it has not been observed before by those who have been Avorking with transformers .
Nearly four years ago Prof. Birkeland , of Christiania , told me that his workmen at the nitrate factory at Notodden declared they could see lights over the choking coils used to limit the Dr. H. G. Chapman .
Weight of [ Apr. 21 .
currents supplied to the electric furnaces .
This may have been in reality a subjective phenomenon similar to that now recorded .
No effect upon the senses of smell , taste , or hearing has yet been observed .
[ Added April 14.\#151 ; Since the above was written , it has been noted by several observers that a sensation of taste in the mouth is excited after exposing the head for two or three minutes to the action of the alternating magnetic field .
] J On the Weight of Precipitate Obtainable in Precipitin .
By Dr. H. G. Chapman .
( Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received April 21 , -\#151 ; Read May 5 , 1910 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of Sydney .
) The nature of the interaction between the antiserum and homologous protein in a precipitin test has been the subject of several researches .
It has been usual to mix a given fixed quantity of antiserum with increasing quantities of suitably diluted homologous protein estimated either directly or in terms of dilutions and to measure the volume of the precipitate formed .
The experiments of Hamburger which have been analysed by Arrhenius* were conducted in this way .
Welsh and Chapmanf also examined mixtures of a fixed quantity of antiserum with increasing quantities of homologous protein by adding to the superfluid above the precipitate either antiserum or homologous protein .
This mode of testing the superfluid after the completion of the precipitin reaction led to certain definite conclusions .
In the first place the further addition of antiserum to the superfluid always led to the formation of a further precipitate .
In the second place it was possible to neutralise completely the precipitin in an antiserum , so that the further addition of homologous protein led to no more formation of precipitate .
The precipitin reaction between antigen and anti-body is very suitable for quantitative study owing to the simple nature of the interaction and the ease with which the quantities may be measured .
More accurate methods are , however , required for its study than those previously employed .
The * S. Arrhenius , * Immuno-chemistry , ' New York , 1907 , p. 287 et .
, and 'Ergebnisse d. Physiol. , ' vol. 7 , p. 543 , 1908 .
t ' Journ. of Hygiene , ' vol. 6 , p. 251 , 1906 .

