]\gt ; Insect Sight and the Defining Power of Composite .
85 immersion , was heated in hydrogen .
The action would bs represented by the formula The above experiments prove that nearly the whole effect which is observed when copper is in a solution of lphate of copper or sulphuric acid is dne to the presence of oxygen in the solution .
February 1 , 1894 .
Sir JOHN , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , .D .
, -President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of Presents received was laid on the table , itnd thanks ordered for them .
I. " " Insect ight and { he Defining Powel of Composite Eyes By A. MALLOCK .
Communicated by LORD RAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. Beceived November 28 , 1893 .
The optical ement of the simple eyes of Vertebrates is well understood , but as regal.ds the action of the composite eyes of Insecbs and Crustacea less certainty has hitherto pre veiled .
In the former class of eye a single lens , or its equivalent , forms an image on a concave retina , up , as a sort of tesselated pavement , of terminations of the fibres of the optic , and , if the lens is perfect and the pupil large enough , the definition is limited by the distance apart of the nerve-terminations , for , in order that objects may appear as two to the eye , they must subtend at least such an angle thal images as formed by the lens shall not on tormination .
In the human eye the distance between the sensitive poims on the retina is such th it subtends about a minute of a6 the optic centre of the lens , and in good eyes ] optical part of the apparatus sufficiently perfect to allow of this degree of detinition attained over a small part of the field of view .
For reasons , however , which will be given presently , such definition as this is not to be looked for in composite eyes .
The general plan on which all composite eyes are constructed is hat of a convex retina having a separate ] lens in front of each sensitive part , together with an rangement of screens which allows VOL. On the supposition , therefore , of " " one lens , one impression the definition obtained by a composite eye will be measured by the total solid angle of view- : whole number of lenses in the eye .
The simplest form of eye would be a spherical shell , AB , fig. 1 , perforated with radial holes , , the diameter of these FIG. 1 .
holes being small compared with ] the thickness of the shell .
If sensitive paper were placed in contact with the inner surface of the shell , it would be impressed with a picture of surrounding objects , for the light which reaches the bottom of any hole is to that making an angle less than with the axis of the hole , which angle is of course equal to the diameter of the hole - : half its length .
It is interesting to see what proportions would have to be given to : an eye of this kind if the definition is to be as good as that of the human eye .
The limit of definition in this case being 1 , the holes would have diameters 1since 1orderthat diflraction mnterferc m 1894 .
] Jining Pow of Comoosite ?
es .
diameter of the holes should not be less then 2000 wave-lengths of light , say in .
Hence the thickness of the shell will be in .
, or 23 The adius of the sphere may be determined by the condition that , if the picture is to be continuous , the adjacent holes must just be in contact at the internaI surface of the shell , that is to say the diameter of the holc , .
: in .
, must subtend 1 .
at the internal radius of the shell , which makes this radius , therefore , in .
Thus an eye of this construction and power of definition would consist of some part of a spherical shell of 34 .
external radius , and 23 .
thick , perforated with radial holes in .
in diameter , and with their centres about apart on the external surface .
If keeping 1 .
as the limit of definition , we substitute the arrangement actually found in composite eyes , and in place of the long tunllels in thick shell , we use short tunnels with a lens at the outer end of each tunnel , and a diaphragm at the inner end , pierced with a small ce1ltral hole ( fig. 2 ) , the proportion of the eye will be FIG. 2 .
determined in the first place by the diameter of the lens which will just define 1 , and secondly by making that diameter subtend 1 .
at the of the sphere .
Now the sire of the image of a point formed by a lens ( as seen the optic ce1ltre of the lens ) is inversely as the diameter of the lens , and it takeb a lens 4 .
in diameter to define 1 second , i.e. , to separate points ; hence the lens which will just define 1 is or in .
in diameter .
radius at which in .
subtends 1 .
is about 19 It is evident , therefore , that no composite eye of dimensions , acting as supposed above , could be made to give definition even approaching that of the human much less than the diameter of the hole may be is , to some extent , a matter of judgment depending on degree to which it is considered desirable to reduce intensity of the diffracted light .
Mr. A. Mallock .
Insect Sight and 1 , [ Feb. ] , If the diameter of the lenses is reduced , not only is the size of the sphere on which a given number of them would lie reduced , but , since the detinition of lens decreases with the diameter , a less number of lenses will bs required to give the maximum definition attainable under the changed circumstances .
Thus the radius of the sphere proper for the surface of a composite eye decreases as the square of the defining power of the separate lenses of which it is composed .
Let A and ( fig. 2 ) be two adjacent lenses , and the sensitive spots of the retina .
Let be the between the axes of A and and the limit of definition of the lens .
Then , if , the image of a distant object in the axis of A will just fall clear of the sensitive point , but , if , both and will be illuminated by light om the same object .
Supposing , however , is less than , nothing will be gained in definition unless each lens has more than one sensitive to operate on .
If , then , we find that in actual composite eyes and are nearly equal , that is , that the difference in the direction in which the adjacent lenses point is nearly equal to tlJe defining power of the lens itself , it becomes almost certain that each lens has only one sensitive point behind it .
The following table ntains measures , recently made by me , of the diameters and angles between the axes of the lenses of various insect eyes , and , although the measure of the an of view was necessarily rather rough , the greement of the results , in the number of cases , with the supposition above made seems to me sufficiently remarkable .
In estimating there were two difficulties , one of which was that in many eyes the curvature of the surface was sharp at the and that the definition was probably bad there , and another that the line of sight of each lens was not always to the outer surface of the eye ( fig. 3 ) .
Generally , I took the angle between the tangeuts FIG. S. ' 1894 .
] Power of Composite Eyes .
to the surface at the ends of a measured chord , choosing the chord so that the surface outside it should have fairly uniform curvature .
The length of the chord was nsually about three-quarters , or a little more , of that of the eye .
Taking the length of the chord as , and as radius of the sphere which best represents the surface of the eye , we have for the angle of view 9 , Prof. .
B. Lewes .
[ Feb. 1 , and , where is the diameter of the lens ; hence The other columns of the table explain themselves .
On the whole , I think it must be concluded that Insects do not well , at any rate as regards their power of defining distant objects and their behaviour certainly favours this view ; but they have advantage over simple-eyed animals in the fact that there is hardly any practical limit to the nearness of the objects they can examine With the composite eye , indeed , the closer the object the better sight , for ths greater wil ] be the number of lenses employed to pro .
duce the impression ; whereas in the simple eye the focal lengtl ] of the lens limits the distance at which a distinct view can obtained .
The best of the eyes mentioxled in the table would give a about as good as if executed in ratber coarse wool-work and viewe6 at a distance of a foot ; and , although a distant landscape could be indifferently represeuted on such a coarse-grained structure , would do very well for things near enough to occupy a part of the field of view .
II .
" " The Action of Heat upon Ethylene By VIVIAN B. LEWES Professor of Chemistly in the Royal Naval College , Greenwich .
Communicated by Professor THORPE , F.B. Received December 6 , 1893 .
The decompositions of the simpler forms of hydrocarbons at an elevated temperature have always been recognised as a question of the greatest importance , as upon them is dependent a true conception of many of the actions taking place in the manufacture of coal gas and other kindred processes of destructive ctillabion .
Ethylene has in most cases been chosen as the hydrocarbon which would lend itself nlost readily to experimental researches upon this point , as , besides being one of the simplest , it is easily ) ared , and is moreover found as one of the products in nearIy all cases where organic compounds are subjected to distillation at high temperatures .
No sooner had the difference between ethylene and methane been recognised , than experiments were made by Deimann , Van Troostwyk , Lauwerenburg , and Bondt*to ascertain the action of heat upon the newly-formed compound , and the conclusions which they came to were that on heating no contraction in volume obselved , but that bhe tubes in which the decomposition was effected became coated with a black deposit .
and dl.ops of an oily body were formed , the gas * ' Annals de Chimie et de Physique , ' 1st series , vol. 21 , p. 48 .

