437 The Histology of the Cell , \amp ; c. IY .
" The Micro-organism of Distemper in the Dog , and the Production of a Distemper Vaccine .
" By Dr. S. Monc-kton Copeman .
Communicated by Sir M. Foster , Sec. R.S. V. " On the Tempering of Iron hardened by Overstrain .
" By James Muir .
Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.E.S. " The Histology of the Cell Wall , with special reference to the Mode of Connection of Cells.''* By Walter Gardiner , M. A. , F.R.S. , Fellow and Bursar of Clare College , Cambridge , and Arthur W. Hill , B.A. , Scholar of lvingts College , Cambridge .
Part I. " The Distribution and Character of ' Connecting Threads ' in the Tissues of Pinus sylvestrisand other Allied Species .
" By Arthur W. Hill , B.A. , Scholar of King 's College , Cambridge Received July 17 , \#151 ; Read December 6 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The research with which this paper is concerned was undertaken with a view of ascertaining to what extent " connecting threads " are distributed throughout the body of any given plant , and for this purpose the endosperm and the various tissues of the hypocotyl , cotyledons , and root of the young seedling of and of the adult stem leaf and root of Finns syl , were examined .
The results show that the presence of such threads can be readily demonstrated in the case of all cells in which the wall retains its cellulose or mucilaginous character , and that in such young tissue as the growing point of the root all the cells are provided with connecting threads .
When the lignified or suberised condition has supervened it is difficult or impossible to identify threads , though even in such cases threads may be recognised in certain of the very young elements .
In Pinus pinea the tissue of the endosperm , as also that of the germinating seedling , is well connected by threads .
In the cotyledon the absorptive side next the endosperm ( corresponding to the lower side of the leaf ) shows a certain histological distinction in that the walls of the cells , both of the epidermis and of the subjacent parenchyma , are more richly provided with threads than are the similar tissues of the upper side .
No threads , however , occur # For the preliminary communication on this subject , see Gardiner : " The Histology of the Cell Wall , with special reference to the Mode of Connection of Cells , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 62 , 1897 .
The Histology of the Cell \amp ; c. in the outer or free walls of the epidermis , so that diffusion only ( as opposed to direct transference ) can take place between the cell contents of the endosperm and those of the cotyledon .
In the stomata of the cotyledon threads have been seen in a few cases connecting the guard cells with the epidermal cells .
The parenchymatous tissue all over the seedling plant shows connecting threads of a similar character .
In the end walls of the cells they occur irregularly scattered , but in the lateral walls they are usually in isolated groups , mainly in consequence of the growth in length which these walls have undergone , and are also situated in shallow pits .
The palisade cells of the cotyledon , which at first are united together in all directions , very soon separate , forming plates of tissue , and the threads in the walls along which separation takes place are very quickly obliterated .
A similar obliteration of threads is seen to occur in those walls of pericyclic cells which are situated between the living cells and the young transfusion cells in process of lignification .
The living cells of the pericycle , which are richly connected together by threads , form the passage cells from the cortical tissues to the phloem , and between these cells and the sieve tubes come the albuminous cells , which possess thread groups occurring in localised thickenings of their walls .
The threads , which are long and usually curved , .stain in a peculiar manner , and appear to have an important function with reference to the passage of material from the mesophyll to the phloem .
The phloem tissues of the seedling of present a distinct type , the peculiarities of which are treated of at some length .
The large cells of the outer portion are characterised by long oblique end walls full of threads ; whilst the thick-walled cells of the inner pa1.t possess square end walls traversed by numerous long threads , resembling the sieve tubes of dicotyledons .
As development proceeds , sieve tubes like those of the adult tissues are , however , quickly developed from the cambium .
All the sieve tube threads show a characteristic median dot .
The root cap of the seedling root shows numerous threads connecting its cells together , and also affording communication both with the fioe surface of the root as well as internally with the cells of the periblem .
The function of the root cap as an organ for stimulus perception and as an absorbent organ is considered with reference to the abundance of the connecting threads .
In Pinus sylvestris the characters of the threads in the cortical tissues of the adult stem and root are similar to those of the seedling .
Threads occur , however , in the radial and end walls of the cells , but in the cells just under the cork they are distributed in large numbers in the tangential walls , and this change in the main direction of the On the " Blaze Currents " the Frog 's 439 threads points to their value as a means of conducting food material to the developing cork .
In the phloem there is a sharp contrast between the starch-containing medullary ray cells and bast parenchyma on the one hand , and the sieve tubes on the other , and no threads can be found directly connecting the parenchymatous cells with the sieve tubes , but the albuminous cells of the ray possess numerous thread groups which communicate with both tissues .
The starch medullary ray cells in the phloem and xylem possess numerous threads in the tangential and basal walls , especially in the former , and are also united with the bast parenchyma and albuminous cells .
The sieve tube threads which occur only in the radial walls always show a median dot .
The existence of threads in the xylem is doubtful .
All living parenchymatous cells show them , but it seems probable that they quickly disappear when the cells become lignified .
In the case of young bordered pits there is some evidence that the torus is traversed by connecting threads which are soon obliterated .
The leaf of Pinus sylvestrisshows a distribution of connecting threads similar to that noticed in the cotyledon .
The endodermis is seen to be an important layer connecting the tissues of the steal with those of the cortex by means of thread groups in the tangential walls .
In the pericycle there are both dead and living cells , but no threads persist in the walls connecting the dead with the living cells .
The albuminous cell thread groups are very well developed , and their function and peculiar properties are discussed .
In conclusion , the general distribution of the connecting threads throughout the tissues is considered .
" On the ' Blaze Currents ' of the Frog 's Eyeball .
" By A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.lhS .
Beceived December 6 , \#151 ; Bead December 6 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The normal electrical response to light is positive .
The normal electrical response to every kind of stimulus is positive .
The normal response of the frog 's eyeball is partly retinal , partly by other tissues .
The direction of response is reversed by pressure .
The normal " blaze currents " excited by single induction shocks , and by condenser discharges , are comparable with the normal discharges of an electrical organ .
Their maximum voltage is of the same order as that of the discharge of a single electrical disc ( over

