1 .
" On the Anatomy and Affinities of the Family of Meduse .
" By HenryI uxley , Esq. Communicated bythe Bishop of Norwich , F.R.S. The author commences by remarking that no class of animals has been so much investigated with so little satisfactory and comprehensive result as the family of Uledusce ( including under that name the lifedtuse , Monostomatce and the iRizostomidce ) , and proposes in this paper to give a connected view of the whole class considered as organized upon a given type , and an inquiry into its relations with other families .
This he has been enabled to do through numerous and peculiar opportunities for the investigation of these animals , enjoyed during a cruise of some months along the eastern coast of Australia and in Bass 's Strait* .
The memoir is divided into two sections , of which the firsttreats of the anatomy of the Medusae , and the second of their affinities .
The organs of the Medusa are formed out of two distinct membranes-foundation membranes .
Both are cellular , but the inner is in general softer , less transparent and more richly ciliated than the outer , but contains fewer thread-cells .
The outer is dense , transparent , and either distinctly cellular or developed into a muscular membrane .
It may be ciliated or not , and is usually thickly beset with thread-cells , either scattered through its substance or concentrated upon more or less raised papillae developed from its surface .
When the stomach is attached to the disc , the outer membrane passes into the general substance of the disc , while the inner becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the canals .
There is a larger or smaller space , termed by the author the " common cavity , " between the inner aperture of the stomach and the openings of the canals , with which both communicate .
This is the structure of the stomach in the Cryptocarpae and Phanerocarpse ; in the lthizostomidae it is fundamentally the same , but the stomachs are very minute , and collected on the edges and extremities of the ramuscules , a common stem .
The RIhizostomes , quoad their digestive system , have the same relation to the Monostome Medusae that the Sertularian Polypes have to the Hydrae , or the Coralline Polypes to the Actiniae .
In consequence of a very irritable contractile mermbrane surrounding and overlapping the orifices of their stomachs , they are seen with difficulty .
This membrane consists of two processes , one from each side of the perforated edge of the branch .
In Rhizostoma they generally remain distinct , but in Cephea they are frequently united in front of and behind each aperture so as to form a distinct polype-like cell .
In the structure of the disc there exists no difference between the Monostome and Rhizostome Medusae , The author gives an account of his observations on the minute structure of the disc .
The arrangement of the cavities and canals of the disc differs in the different sections .
In very many of the Cryptocarpe there is a circular , valvate , muscular membrane developed from the inner and under edge of the disc .
In the Phanerocarpam such a membrane does not seem to be present , but in Rhizostoma and Cephea it is evidently replaced by the inflexed edge of the disc .
In the Cryptocarpam the marginal corpuscles are sessile upon the circular vessel .
They are spheroidal vesicles , containing a clear fluid , and one or more strongly-refracting bodies occasionally included within a delicate cell .
The marginal vesicles are placed between 834 , the inner and outer membranes of the circular vessel .
In the Phanerocarpae the marginal corpuscles are pedunculated and protected by a semilunar f'old .
The author describes peculiarities in this part of the organization of Rhizostoma .
The excretory orifices , described by Ehrenberg as general in ledusa aurita , were not detected by the author in Cephea ocellata .
Nor does he admit the supposed nerves and intertentacular ganglia of that author to be such .
Paragraphs 29 to 36 are occupied by a minute description of the tentacles of Medusse .
The generative organs of the three groups of Meduse are always portions more or less developed of the walls of the system , of canals , and consist of the two " foundation " mnembranes , in or between which the generative elements , whether ova or spermatozoa , are developed .
This the author concludes from his observations on several genera , which he gives in detail , and which add considerably to , and differ in some respects materially from , what has been stated by previous observers .
In the ovarium , the two membranes develope between them immense multitudes of ova with a dark granulous yelk and clear germinal vesicle .
The ova are attached to the outer surface of the inner membrane .
In the testis the inner membrane is produced into a vast number of thick pyriform sacs , which lie between the two membranes , with their blind ends towards the inner surface of the outer membrane ; internally , they open each by a distinct aperture on the fine surface of the inner membrane .
The contents of the sacs are spermatozoa , and cells in every stage of development towards spermatozoa , which appear to be formed by the elongation of the secondary cells contained in the large cells .
The author 's observations lead him to believe that the muscular fibres are always developed in the outer " foundation " membrane .
Each fibre in Rhizostoma is made up of very small and indistinct fibrils , which are transversely striated .
He has not observed any indubitable trace of a nervous system in the Meduse , nor of the so-called blood-vascular system described by Will .
In this section of the memoir the affinities of the Medusae are considered .
In their essential characters , -viz .
their construction out of two membranes enclosing a variously-shaped cavity ; their generative organs being external and variously developed processes of the two membranes ; and the universal presence of the peculiar organs called thread-cells , they present a striking resemblance to other families of Zoophytes , as the Hydroid and Sertularian Polypes , the Physophoridae and the Diphydae The disc of a Medusa is represented by the natatorial organ amnong the Diphydae and Physophoride , but has no homologue among the Hydrse and Sertularie .
The cell of the Sertularian Polype rather resembles the " bract " of the Diphydam than the .
natatorial organ , and the latter family forms a connecting link between the Medusme and the Physophoridme .
Of the two kinds of tentacles in the Meduse , the first is represented in the Physophoride and Diphydae , by the thickenings , richly beset with thread-cells , that frequently occur in the lip of the stomach ; in the Sertularian Polypes by the tentacles of the margin of the mouth , The second kind is homologous with the prehensile organs of the Diphydae and Physophoridaw , and with the peculiar clavate processes of Plumularia .
All these organs commence their development as bud-like processes of the two joining membranes .
The peculiar clavate organs of Piumnularia are developed from the common tube independently of the stomach .
They have not been hitherto described , and were observed by the author in two species of Plumularia dredged at Port Curtis .
They were of two kinds , the one attached to the cell of the polype , the other to the pedicle of the ovary .
To each species there were three processes of the former kind , two above proceeding from near that edge of the aperture which is towards the stem , the other below from the front part of the base of the cell .
They were conical in one species , club-shaped and articulated in the other , and consisted of an external horny membrane open at the apex , and an internal delicate membrane enclosing a cavity , all these being con-tinuous with the corresponding parts of the stem .
At the apex of each , and capable of being pressed through the aperture , lay a number of thread-cells .
The second kind of organ was present in the species with conical processes .
It consisted of a stem proceeding from the pedicle of the ovary , bearing a series of conical bodies , having the same constitution as those just described ; the whole bearing a close resemblance to the prehensile organs of the Diphydae .
The following table exhibits the homologies of the several families , which must be regarded as by no means so distinct as hitherto supposed , but rather as members of one great group , organized upon one simple and uniform plan , and even in their most complex and aberrant forms reducible to the same type .
Stomachs identical in Structure throughout .
Medusa .
Physophoridce .
Diphyde .
Sertularidae .
Hydrae .
Disc ... ... ... . .
Natatorial organ ... .
Natatorial organ .
Canals .
Canals of natatorial ] Canals of natatorial .
organ .
, ... ... . .
J organ .
Common cavity. .
an Canals of branches Common tube ... acculus and coCavity of stem .
( Rhiz .
) ... ... .
mon tube ... ... Bract ... ... ... ... ... ... Polype-cell .
TentacIes , 1 ... .
, Thickened edge of Oval tentacles .
Tentacles , I ... ... stomach ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Oval tentacles .

