could be conveniently effected , there would be no further difficulty .
Now to this end I examined , what may be done not only by Glasses alone , but more especially by a Complication of divers successive Mediums , as by two or more Glasses or Crystals with Water or some other fluid between them ; all which together may perform the office of one Glass , especially of the Object-glass , on whose construction the perfection of the instrument chiefly depends .
But what the results in Theory or by Trials have been , I may possibly find a more proper occasion to declare .
To the Assertion , that Rays are less true reflected to a point by a Concave , than refracted by a Convex , I cannot assent ; nor do I understand , that the focus of the latter is less a line than that of the former .
The truth of the contrary you will rather perceive by this following Table , computed for such a Reflecting Concave , and Refracting convex , on supposition that they have equal Apertures , and collect parallel rays at an equal distance from their vertex ; which distance being divided into 15000 parts , the Diameter of the Concave Sphere will be 60000 of those parts , and of the Convex , 10000 ; supposing the Sines of Incidence and Refraction to be , in round numbers , as 2 to 3 .
And this Table shows , how much the exterior rays , at several Apertures , fall short of their principal focus .
The parts of the Axis intercepted The Diameter between the vertex and the rays .
The Error by of the Aperture .
Reflected .
Refracted .
Reflexion Refraction .
2000 14991 11/ 2 14865 81/ 3 135 .
4000 14966 14449 33 551 .
6000 14924 13699 76 1301 .
8000 14865 12475 135 2525 .
10000 14787 9472 213 5528 .
By this you may perceive , that the Errors of the Refracting convex are so far from being less , that they are more than sixteen times greater than the like errors of the Reflecting Concave , especially in great Apertures ; and that without respect to the Heterogeneous constitution of light .
So that , however the contrary supposition might make the Author of these Animadversions reject Reflections as useless for the promoting of OpK kkkk2 tiques tiques ; yet I must for this as well as other considerations pre fer them in the Theory before Refractions .
Whether the Parabola be more difficult to describe than the Hyperbola or Ellipsis , may be a Quaere : But I see no absolute necessity of endeavouring after any of their descriptions .
For , if Metals can be ground truly Spherical , they will bear as great Apertures , as I believe men will be well able to communicate an exact polish to .
And for Dioptrique Telescopes , I told you , that the difficulty consisted not in the Figure of the glass , but in the Difformity of Refractions : Which if it did not , I could tell you a better and more easy remedy than the use of the Conic Sections .
Thus much concerning the Practique part of Optiques .
I shall now take a view of the Considerations on my Theories .
And those consist in ascribing an Hypothesis to me , which is not mine ; in Asserting an Hypothesis , which , as to the principal parts , is not against me ; in Granting the greatest part of my discourse if explicated by that Hypothesis ; and in Denying some things , the truth of which would have appeared by an experimental examination .
2 .
Of the Theorique .
part .
Of these Particulars I shall discourse in order .
And first of the Hypothesis , which is ascribed to me in these words : But grant his first supposition , that light is a body , and that as many colours or degrees as there may be , so many bodies there may be ; all which compounded together would make White , &amp;c. This , it seems , is taken for my Hypothesis .
It is true , that from my Theory I argue the Corporeity of Light ; but I do it without any absolute positiveness , as the word perhaps intimates ; and make it at most but a very plausible consequence of the Doctrine , and not a fundamental Supposition , nor so much as any part of it ; which was wholly comprehended in the precedent Propositions .
And I somewhat wonder , how the Objector could imagine , that , when I had asserted the Theory with the greatest rigour , I should be so forgetful as afterwards to assert the fundamental supposition it self with no more than a perhaps .
Had I intended any such Hypothesis , I should somewhere have explained it .
But I knew , that the Properties , which I declared of Light , were in some 3 .
Of an Hypothesis mistaken to be mine .
some measure capable of being explicated not only by that , but by many other Mechanical Hypotheses .
And therefore I chose to decline them all , and to speak of Light in general terms , considering it abstractly , as something or other propagated every way in straight lines from luminous bodies , with .
out determining , what that Thing is ; whether a confused Mixture of difform qualities , or Modes of bodies , or of Bod ies themselves , or of any Virtues , Powers , or Beings whatsoever .
And for the same reason I chose to speak of Colours according to the information of our Senses , as if they were Qualities of Light without us .
Whereas by that Hypothesis I must have considered them rather as Modes of Sensation , excited in the mind by various motions , figures , or sizes of the corpuscles of Light , making various Mechanical impressions on the Organ of Sense ; as I expressed it in that place , where I spake of the Corporeity of Light .
But supposing I had propounded that Hypothesis , I understand not , why the Objector should so much endeavour to oppose it .
For certainly it has a much greater affinity with his own Hypothesis , than he seems to be aware of ; the Vibrations of the AEther being as useful and necessary in this , as in his .
For , assuming the Rays of Light to be small bodies , emitted every way from Shining substances , those , when they impinge on any Refracting or Reflecting Superficies , must as necessarily excite Vibrations in the aether , as Stones do in water when thrown into it .
And supposing these Vibrations to be of several depths or thicknesses , accordingly as they are excited by the said corpuscular rays of various sizes and velocities ; of what use they will be for explicating the manner of Reflection and Refraction , the production of Heat by the Sun-beams , the Emission of Light from burning putrefying , or other substances .
whose parts are vehemently agitated , the Phenomenon of thin transparent Plates and Bubles , and of all Natural bodies , the Manner of Vision , and the Difference of Colors , as also their Harmony and Discord ; I shall leave to their consideration , who may think it worth their endeavour to apply this Hypothesis to the solution of phenomenon .
In the second place , I told you , that the Objectors Hypothesis , as to the fundamental part of it , is not against me .
That fundamental Supposition is ; That the parts of bodies , when briskly agitated , do excite Vibrations in the AEther , which are propagated every way from those bodies in straight lines , and cause a Sensation of Light by beating and dashing against the bottom of the Eye , something after the manner that Vibrations in the Air cause a Sensation of Sound by beating against the Organs of Hearing .
Now , the most free and natural Application of this Hypothesis to the Solution of phenomenon I take to be this : That the agitated parts of bodies , according to their several sizes , figures , and motions , do excite Vibrations in the aether of various depths or bignesses , which being promiscously propagated through that Medium to our Eyes , effect in us a Sensation of Light of a White colour ; but if by any means those of unequal bignesses be separated from one another , the largest beget a Sensation of a Red colour , the least or shortest , of a deep Violet , and the intermediat ones , of intermediat colors ; much after the manner that bodies , according to their several sizes , shapes , and motions , excite vibrations in the Air of various bignesses , which , according to those bignesses , make several Tones in Sound : That the largest Vibrations are best able to overcome the resistance of a Refracting superficies , and so break through it with least Refracting ; whence the Vibrations of several bignesses , that is , the Rays of several Colors , which are blended together in Light , must be parted from one another by Refraction , and so cause the Phenomenon of Prisms and other refracting substances : And that it depends on the thickness of a thin transparent Plate or Buble , whether a Vibration shall be reflected at its further superficies , or transmitted ; so that , according to the number of vibrations , interceding the two superficies , they may be reflected or transmitted for many successive thicknesses .
And since the Vibrations which make Blew and Violet , are supposed shorter than those which make Red and Yellow , they must be reflected at a less thickness of the Plate : Which is sufficient to explicate all the ordinary phenomenon of those Plates or Bubles , and also of all natural bodies , whose 4 .
Of the Objector 's Hypothesis , and that the most free and genuine Constitution of that and all other Mechanical Hypotheses is conformable to my whose parts are like so many fragments of such Plates .
These seem to be the most plain , genuine-and necessary conditions of this Hypothesis : And they agree so justly with my Theory , that if the Animadversor think fit to apply them , he need not , on that account , apprehend a divorce from it .
But yet how he will defend it from other difficulties , I know not .
For , to me , the Fundamental Supposition it self seems impossible ; namely , That the Waves or Vibrations of any Fluid , can , like the Rays of Light , be propagated in Straight lines , without a continual and very extravagant spreading and bending every way into the quiescent Medium , where they are terminated by it .
I mistake , if there be not both Experiment and Demonstration to the contrary .
And as to the other two or three Hypotheses , which he mentions , I had rather believe them subject to the like difficulties , than suspect the Animadversor should select the worst for his own .
What I have said of this , may be easily applied to all other Mechanical Hypotheses , in which Light is supposed to be caused by any Pression or Motion whatsoever , excited in the aether by the agitated parts of Luminous bodies .
For , it seems impossible , that any of those Motions or Pressions can be propagated in Straight lines without the like spreading every way into the shadowed Medium , on which they border .
But yet , if any man can think it possible , he must at least allow , that those Motions or Endeavours to motion , caused in the aether by the several parts of any Lucid body that differ in size , figure , and agitation , must necessarily be unequal : Which is enough to denominate Light an Aggregat of difform rays , according to any of those Hypotheses .
And if those Original inequalities may suffice to difference the Rays in Colour and Refrangibility , I see no reason , why they , that adhere to any of those hypotheses , should seek for other Causes of these Effects , unless ( to use the Objectors argument ) they will multiply entities without necessity .
The third thing to be considered is , the Condition of the Animadversor 's Concessions , which is , that I would explicate my Theories by his Hypothesis : And if I could comply with him in that point , there 5 .
Of the Animadversor 's Concessions , and their limitation to his Hypothesis .
there would be little or no difference between Us .
For he grants , that without any respect to a different Incidence of rays there are different Refractions ; but he would have it explicated , not by the different Refrangibility of several Rays , but by the Splitting and Rarefying of ethereal pulses .
He grants my third , fourth and sixth Propositions ; the sense of which is , That Un compounded Colors are unchangeable , and that Compounded ones are changeable only by resolving them into the colors , of which they are compounded ; and that all the Changes , which can be wrought in Colours , are effected only by variously mixing or parting them : But he grants them on condition that I will explicate Colors by the two sides of a split pulse , and so make but two species of them , accounting all other Colors in the world to be but various degrees and dilutings of those two .
And he further grants , that Whiteness is produced by the Convention of all Colors ; but then I must allow it to be not only by Mixture of those Colors , but by a farther Uniting of the parts of the Ray supposed to be formerly split .
If I would proceed to examine these his Explications , I think it would be no difficult matter to show , that they are not only insufficient , but in some respects to me ( at least ) un-intelligible .
For , though it be easy to conceive , how Motion may be dilated and spread , or how parallel motions may become diverging ; yet I understand not , by what artifice any Linear motion can by a refracting superficies be infinitely dilated and rarefied , so as to become Superficial : Or , if that be supposed , yet I understand as little , why it should be split at so small an angle only , and not rather spread and dispersed through the whole angle of Refraction .
And further , though I can easily imagine , how Unlike motions may cross one another ; yet I cannot well conceive , how they should coalesce into one uniform motion , and then part again , and recover their former Unlikeness ; notwithstanding that I conjecture the ways , by which the Animadversor may endeavour to explain it .
So that the Direct , uniform and undisturbed Pulses should be split and disturbed by Refraction ; and yet the Oblique and disturbed Pulses persist without splitting or further disturbance by following Refractions , is ( to me ) as unintelligible .
And there is as great a difficulty in the Number of Colours ; as you will see hereafter .
But whatever be the advantages or disadvantages of this Hypothesis , I hope I may be excused from taking it up , since I do not think it needful to explicate my Doctrine by any Hypothesis at all .
For if Light be considered abstractedly without respect to any Hypothesis , I can as easily conceive , that the several parts of a shining body may emit rays of differing colours and other qualities , of all which Light is constituted , as that the several parts of a false or uneven string , or of uneavenly agitated water in a Brook or Cataract , or the several Pipes of an Organ inspired all at once , or all the variety of Sounding bodies in the world together , should produce sounds of several Tones , and propagate them through the Air confusedly intermixt .
And , if there were any natural bodies that could reflect sounds of one tone , and stifle or transmit those of another ; then , as the Echo of a confused Aggregat of all Tones would be that particular Tone , which the Echoing body is disposed to reflect ; so , since ( even by the Animadversor 's concessions ) there are bodies apt to reflect rays of one colour , and stifle or transmit those of another ; I can as easily conceive , that those bodies , when illuminated by a mixture of all colours , must appear of that colour only which they reflect .
6.That it is not necessary , to limit or explain my Doctrine by any Hypothesis .
But when the Objector would insinuate a difficulty in these things , by alluding to Sounds in the string of a Musical instrument before percussion , or in the Air of an Organ Bellows before its arrival at the Pipes ; I must confess , I understand it as little , as if one had spoken of Light in a piece of Wood before it be set on fire , or in the oil of a Lamp before it ascend up the match to feed the flame .
You see therefore , how much it is besides the business in hand , to dispute about Hypotheses .
For which reason I shall now in the last place , proceed to abstract the difficulties in the Animadversor 's discourse , and , without having regard to any Hypothesis , consider them in general terms .
And they may be reduced to these 3 Quares : L llll 1 .
Whe7 .
The difficulties of the Animadversors discourse abstract d from Hypotheses , and considered more genaraily .
1 .
Whether the unequal Refractions , made without respect to any inequality of incidence , be caused by the different Refrangibility of several Rays ; or by the splitting , breaking or disfipating the same Ray into diverging parts ?
2 .
Whether there be more than two sorts of Colours ?
3 .
Whether Whiteness be a mixture of all Colours ?
The First of these Quaeres you may find already determined by an Experiment in my former Letter ; the design of which was to show , That the length of the coloured Image proceeded not from any unevenness in the Glass , or any other contingent Irregularity in the Refractions , Amongst other Irregularities I know not , what is more obvi~ ous to suspect , than a fortuitous dilating and spreading of Light after some such manner , as Des-Cartes hath described in his Ethereal Refractions for explicating the Tail of a Comet ; or as the Animadver sor now supposes to be effected by the Splitting and Rarefying of his Ethereal ~ .
And to ~ went the suspicion of any such Irregularities , I told you , that I refracted the Light contrary ways with two Prisms successively , to destroy thereby the Regular effects of the first Prisme by the second , and to discover the Irregular effects by augmenting them with iterated refractions .
Now , amongst other Ir~ regularities , if the first Prisme had spread and dissipated every ray into an indefinit number of diverging parts , the second should in like manner have spread and dissipated every one of those parts into a further indefinite number , whereby the Image would have been still more dilated , contrary to the event .
And this ought to have happened , because those Linear diverging parts depend not on one another for the manner of their Refraction , but are every one of them as truly and compleatly Rays as the whole was before its Incidence ; as may appear by intercepting them severally .
3 .
That the Ray is not split , or any otherwise dilated .
The reasonableness of this proceeding will perhaps better appear by acquainting you with this further circumstance .
I sometimes placed the second Prisme in a position Transverse to the first , on design to try , if it would make the long Image become four-square by refractions crossing those that had drawn the round Image into a long one .
For , if amongst other Irregularities the Refraction of the first Prisme , did by Splitting dilate a Linear ray into a Superficial , the Cross refractions of that second Prisme ought by further splitting to dilate and draw that Superficial ray into a Pyramidal solid .
But , upon trial , I found it otherwise ; the Image being as regularly Oblong as before , and inclined to both the Prisms at an angle of 45 .
degrees .
I tried also all other Positions of the second Prisme , by turning the Ends about its middle part ; and in no case could observe any such Irregularity .
The Image was ever alike inclined to both Prisms , its Breadth answering to the Suns Diameter , and its length being greater or less accordingly as the Refractions more or less agreed , or contradicted one another .
And by these Observations , since the Breadth of the Image was not augmented by the Cross refraction of the second Prisme , that refraction must have been performed without any splitting or dilating of the ray ; and therefore at least the Light incident on that prisme must be granted an Aggregat of Rays unequally refrangible in my sense .
And since the Image was equally inclined to both Prisms , and consequently the Refractions alike in both , it argues , that they were performed according to some constant Law without any irregularity .
To determine the second Quaere , the Animadversor referrs to an Experiment made with two Wedge-like boxes , recited in the Micrography of the Ingenious Mr. Hook Observe .
10 .
page .
73 .
the design of which was to produce all Colours out of a mixture of two .
But there is , I conceive , a double defect in this instance .
For , it appears not , that by this Experiment all colours can be produced out of two ; and , if they could , yet the Inference would not follow .
9 .
That there are more than two Original Colors .
That all Colours cannot by that Experiment be produced out of two , will appear by considering , that the Tincture of Aloes , which afforded one of those Colours , was not all over of one uniform colour , but appeared yellow near the edge of the Box , and red at other places where it was thicker : affording all variety of colours from a pale yellow to a deep red orScarlet , according to the various thickness of the liquor .
And so the Ll l~l l2 solution solution of Copper , which afforded the other colour , was of various Blews and Indigo 's .
So that instead of two colours , here is a great variety made use of for the production of all others .
Thus , for instance , to produce all sorts of Greens , the several degrees of Yellow and pale Blew must be mixed ; but to compound Purples , the Scarlet and deep Blew are to be the Ingredients .
Now , if the Animadversor contend , that all the Reds and Yellows of the one Liquor , or Blews and Indigo 's of the other , are only various degrees and dilutings of the same Colour , and not divers colours , that is a Begging of the Question : And I should as soon grant , that the two Thirds or sixths in Music are but several degrees of the same found , and not divers founds .
Certainly it is much better to believe our Senses , informing us , that Red and yellow are divers colours , and to make it a Philosophical Quaere , Why the same Liquor doth , according to its various thickness , appear of those divers colours , than to suppose them to be the same colour because exhibited by the same liquor ?
For , if that were a sufficient reason , then Blew and Yellow must also be the same colour , since they are both exhibited by the same Tincture of Nephritick Wood .
But that they are divers colours , you will more fully understand by the reason , which , in my Judgment , is this : The Tincture of Aloes is qualified to transmit most easily the rays endued with red , most difficultly the rays endued with violet , and with intermediat degrees of facility the rays endued with intermediat colours .
So that where the liquor is very thin , it may suffice to intercept most of the violet , and yet transmit most of the other colours ; all which together must compound a middle Colour , that is , a faint yellow .
And where it is so much thicker as also to intercept most of the Blew and Green , the remaining Green , Yellow , and Red , it must compound an Orange .
And where the thickness is so great , that scarce any rays can pass through it besides those endued with Red , must appear of that colour , and that so much the deeper and obscurer , by how the liquor is thicker .
And the same may be understood of the various degrees of Blew , exhibited by the Solution of Copper , by reason of its disposition to intercept Red most easily , and transmit a deep Blew or Indigo-Colour most freely .
But , supposing that all Colours might , according to this ex periment , be produced out of two by mixture ; yet it follows not , that those two are the only Original colours , and that for a double reason .
First , because those two are not themselves Original colours , but compounded of others ; there being no liquor nor any other body in nature , whose colour in Day-light is wholly un-compounded .
And then , because , though those two were Original , and all others might be compounded of them , yet it follows not , that they cannot be otherwise produced .
For I said , that they had a double Origin , the same Colours to sense being in some cases compounded and in others un-compounded ; and sufficiently declared in my third and fourth Propositions , and in the Conclusion , by what Properties the one might be known and distinguish't from the other .
But , because I suspect by some Circumstances , that the Distinction might not be rightly apprehended , I shall once more declare it , and further explain it by Examples .
That Colour is Primary or Original , which cannot by any Art be changed , and whose Rays are not alike refrangible : And that Compounded , which is changeable into other colours , and whose Rays are not alike refrangible .
For instance , to know , whether the colour of any Green object be compounded or not , view it through a Prime , and if it appear confused , and the edges tinged with Blew , Yellow , or any variety of other colours , then is that Green compounded of such colours as at its edges emerge out of it : But if it appear distinct , and well defined , and entirely Green to the very edges , without any other colours emerging , it is of an Original and un-compounded Green .
In like manner , if a refracted beam of light , being cast on a white wall , exhibit a Green colour , to know whether that be compounded , refract the beam with an interposed Prisme ; and if you find any Difformity in the refractions , and the Green be transformed into Blew , Yellow , or any variety of other colours , you may conclude , that it was compounded of those which emerge : But if the Refractions be uniform , and the Green persist without any change of colour , then is it Original and un compounded .
Andthe reason why I call it so , is , because a Green endued with such properties cannot be produced by any mixing of other colours .
Now , if two Green Objects may to the naked eye appear of the same colour , and yet one of them through a prisme seem confused and variegated with other colours at the edges , and the other distinct and entirely Green ; or , if there may be two Beams of Light , which falling on a white wall do to the naked eye exhibit the same Green colour , and yet one of them , when transmitted through a Prisme , be uniformly and regularly refracted , and retain its colour unchanged , and the other be irregularly refracted and to divaricate into a multitude of other colours ; I suppose , these two greens will in both cases be granted of a different Origin and constitution .
And if by mixing colours , a green cannot be compounded with the properties of the Unchangeable Green , I think , I may call that an Un-compounded colour , especially since its rays are alike refrangible , and uniform in all respects .
The same rule is to be observed in examining , whether Red , Orange , Yellow , Blew , or any other colour be compounded or not .
And , by the way , since all White objects through the Prisme appear confused and terminated with colours , Whiteness must , according to this distinction , be ever compounded , and that the most of all colours , because it is the most confused and changed by Refractions .
From hence I may take occasion to communicate a way for the improvement of Microscopes by Refraction .
The way is , by illuminating the Object in a darkned room with Light of any convenient colour not too much compounded : for by that means the Microscope will with distinctness bear a deeper Charge and larger Aperture , especially if its construction be such , as I may hereafter describe ; for , the advantage in Ordinary Microscopes will not be so sensible .
There remains now the third Quaere to be considered , which is , Whether Whiteness be an Uniform Colour , or a dissimilar Mixture of all colours ?
The Experiment which I brought to decide it , the Animadversor thinks may be otherwise explained , and so concludes nothing .
But he might easily have satisfied himself by trying , what would be the result of a Mixture of all colours .
And that very Experiment might have satisfied him , if he had pleased to examine it by the 10 .
That Whiteness is a mixture of the various circumstances .
One circumstance I there declared , of which I see no notice taken ; and it is , That if any colour at the Lens be intercepted , the Whiteness will be changed into the other colours : If all the colours but red be intercepted , that Red alone in the concourse or crossing of the Rays will not constitute Whiteness , but continues as much Red as before ; and so of the other colours .
So that the business is not only to show , how rays , which before the concourse exhibit colours , do in the concourse exhibit White ; but to show , How in the same place , where the several sorts of rays apart exhibit several colours , a Confusion of all together make White , For instance , if red alone be first transmitted to the paper at the place of concourse , and then the other colours be let fall on that Red , the Question will be , Whether they convert it into White , by mixing with it only , as Blew falling on Yellow light is supposed to compound Green ; or , Whether there be some further change wrought in the colours by their mutual acting on one another , until , like contrary Peripatetic qualities , they become assimilated .
And he that shall explicate this last Case mechanically , must conquer a double impossibility .
He must first show , that many unlike motions in a Fluid can by clashing so act on one another , and change each other , as to become one Uniform motion ; and then , that an Uniform motion can of it self , without any new unequal impressions , depart into a great variety of motions regularly un-equal .
And after this he must further tell me , Why all Objects appear not of the same colour , that is , why their colours in the Air , where the rays that convey them every way are confusedly mixed , do not assimilate one another and become Uniform before they arrive at the Spectators eye ?
But if there be yet any doubting , it is better to put the Event on further Circumstances of the Experiment , than to acquiesce in the possibility of any Hypothetical Explication .
As , for instance , by trying , What will be the apparition of these colours in a very quick Consecution of one another .
And this may be easily performed by the rapid gyration of a Wheel with many Spoaks or coggs in its perimeter , whose Interstices and thicknesses may be equal and of such a largeness , that , if the Wheel be interposed between the Prisme and the white concourse of the colours , one half of the Colours may be intercepted by a spoke or cog , and the other half pass through an interstice .
The Wheel being in this posture , you may first turn it slowly about , to see all the colours fall successively on the same place of the paper , held at their aforesaid concourse ; and if you then accelerate its gyration , until the Consecution of those colours be so quick , that you cannot distinguish them severally , the resulting colour will be a Whiteness perfectly like that , which an un-refracted beam of Light exhibits , when in like manner successively interrupted by the spoaks or coggs of that circulating Wheel And that this Whiteness is produced by a successive Intermixture of the Colours , without their being assimilated , or reduced to any Uniformity , is certainly beyond all doubt , unless things that exist not at the same time may notwithstanding act on one another .
There are yet other Circumstances , by which the Truth might have been decided ; as by viewing the White concourse of the Colours through another Prisme placed close to the eye , by whose Refraction that whiteness may appear again transformed into Colours : And then , to examine their Origin , if an Assistant intercept any of the colours at the Lens before their arrival at the Whiteness , the same colours will vanish from amongst those , into which that Whiteness is converted by the second Prisme .
Now , if the rays which disappear be the same with those that are intercepted , then it must be acknowledged , that the second Prisme makes no new colours in any rays , which were not in them before their concourse at the paper .
Which is a plain indication , that the rays of several colours remain distinct from one another in the Whiteness , and that from their previous dispositions are derived the Colours of the second Prisme .
And , by the way , what is said of their Colors may be applied to their Refrangibility .
The aforesaid Wheel may be also here made use of ; and , if its gyration be neither too quick nor two slow , the succession of the colours may be discerned through the Prisme , whilst to the naked eye of a Bystander they exhibit whiteness .
There is something still remaining to be said of this Experiment meant .
But this , I conceive , is enough to enforce it , and so to decide the controversy .
How-ever , I shall now proceed to show some other ways of producing Whiteness by mixtures , since I persuade my self , that this Assertion above the rest appears Paradoxical , and is with most difficulty admitted .
And because the Animadverfor desires an instance of it in Bodies of divers colours , I shall begin with that .
But in order thereto it must be considered , that such coloured Bodies reflect but some part of the Light incident on them ; as is evident by the 13 Proposition : And therefore the LIght reflected from an Aggregat of them will be much weakned by the loss of many rays .
Whence a perfect and intense Whiteness is not to be expected , but rather a Colour between those of Light and Shadow , or such a Gray or Dirty colour as may be made by mixing White and Black together .
And that such a Colour will result , may be collected from the colour of Dust found in every corner of an house , which hath been observed to consist of many coloured particles .
There may be also produced the like Dirty colour by mixing several Painters colours together .
And the same may be effected by Painting a Top ( such as Boys play with ) of divers colours .
For , when it is made to circulate by whipping it , it will appear of such a dirty colour .
Now , the Compounding of these colours is proper to my purpose , because they differ not from Whiteness in the Species of colour , but only in degree of Luminousness : which ( did not the Animadverfor concede it ) I might thus evince .
A beam of the Suns Light being transmitted into a darkned room , if you illuminate a sheet of White Paper by that Light , reflected from a body of any colour , the paper will always appear of the colour of that body , by whose reflected light it is illuminated .
If it be a red body , the paper will be red ; if a green body , it will be green ; and so of the other colours .
The reason is , that the fibers or threads , of which the paper consists , are all transparent and specular ; and such substances are known to reflect colours without changing them .
To know therefore , to what Species of colour a Grey belongs , place any Gray body(suppose a Mixture of Painters colours , )in the said Light , and the paper , being illuminated by its reflexion , shall appear White .
And the same thing will happen , if it be illuminated by reflexion from a black substance .
These therefore are all of one Species ; but yet they seem distinguisht not only by degrees of Luminousness , but also by some other Inequalities , whereby they become more harsh or pleasant .
And the distinction seems to be , that Greys and perhaps Blacks are made by an uneven defect of Light , consisting as it were of many little veins or streams , which differ either in Luminousness or in the Unequal diM mmmm stribution stribution of diversely coloured rays ; such as ought to be caus 'd by Reflexion from a Mixture of white and black , or of diversely coloured corpuscles .
But when such imperfectly mixed Light is by a second Reflexion from the paper more evenly and uniformly blended , it becomes more pleasant , and exhibits a saint or shadowed Whiteness .
And that such little irregularities as these may cause these differences , is not improbable , if we consider , how much variety may be caused in Sounds of the same tone by irregular and uneven jarrings .
And besides , these differences are so little , that I have sometimes doubted , whether they be any at all , when I have considered that a Black and White Body being placed together , the one in a strong light , and the other in a very faint light , so proportioned that they might appear equally luminous ; it has been difficult to distinguish them , when viewed at distance , unless when the Black seemed more bluish ; and the White body in a light still fainter , hath , in comparison of the Black body , it self appeared Black .
This leads me to another way of Compounding Whiteness ; which is , That , if four or five Bodies of the more eminent colours , or a Paper painted all over , in several parts of it , with those several colours in a due proportion , be placed in the said Beam of Light ; the Light , reflected from those Colours to another White paper , held at a convenient distance , shall make that paper appear White .
If it be held too near the Colours , its parts will seem of those colours that are nearest them ; but by removing it further , that all its parts may be equally illuminated by all the colours , they will be more and more diluted , until they become perfectly White .
And you may further observe , that if any of the colours be intercepted , the Paper will no longer appear White , but of the other colours which are not intercepted .
Now , that this Whiteness is a Mixture of the severally coloured rays , falling confusedly on the paper , I see no reason to doubt of ; because , if the Light became Uniform and Similar before it fell confusedly on the paper , it must much more be Uniform , when at a greater distance it falls on the Spectators eye , and so the rays , which come from several colours , would in no qualities differ from one another , but all of them exhibit the same colour to the Spectator , contrary to what he sees .
Not much unlike this Instance it is , That , if a polished piece of Metal be so placed , that the colours appear in it as in a Looking-glass , and then the Metal be made rough , that by a confused reflexion those apparent colours may be blended together , they shall disappear , and by their mixture cause the Metal to look White .
But further to enforce this Experiment ; if , instead of the Paper , any White Froth , consisting of small bubles , be illuminated by reflexion from the aforesaid Colours , it shall to the naked eye seem White , and yet through a good Microscope the several Colours will appear distinct on the bubles , as if seen by reflexion from so many spherical surfaces .
With my naked eye , being very near , I have also discerned the several colours on each buble ; and yet at a greater distance , where I could not distinguish them apart , the Froth hath appeared entirely White .
And at the same distance , when I looked intently , I have seen the colours distinctly on each buble ; and yet , by straining my eyes as if I would look at something far off beyond them , thereby to render the Vision confused , the Froth has appeared without any other colour than Whiteness .
And what is here said of Froths , may easily be understood of the Paper or Metal in the foregoing Experiments .
For , their parts are specular bodies , like these Bubles : And perhaps with an excellent Microscope the Colours may be also seen intermixedly reflected from them .
In proportioning the severally Coloured bodies to produce these effects , there may be some niceness ; and it will be more convenient , to make use of the colours of the Prisme , cast on a Wall , by whose reflexion the Paper , Metal , Froth , and other White substances may be illuminated .
And I usually made my Trials this way , because I could better exclude any scattering Light from mixing with the colours to dilate them .
To this way of Compounding Whiteness may be referred that other , by Mixing light after it hath been trajected through transparently coloured substances .
For instance , if no Light be admitted into a room but only through Coloured glass , whose several parts are of several colours in a pretty equal proportion ; all White things in the room shall appear White , if they be not held too near the Glass .
And yet this light , with which they are illuminated , cannot possibly be uniform , because , if the Rays , which at their entrance are of divers colours , do in their progress through the room suffer any alteration to be reduced to an Uniformity ; the Glass would not in the remotest parts of the room appear of the very same colour , which it doth when the Spectators eye is very near it : Nor would the rays , when transmitted into another dark room through a little hole in an opposite door or partition-wall , project on a Paper the Species or representation of the glass in its proper colours .
And , by the by , this seems a very fit and cogent Instance of some other parts of my Theory , and particularly of the 13 Proposition .
For , in this room all natural Bodies whatever appear in their proper colours .
And all the Phenomenon of colours in nature , made either by Refraction or without it , are here the same as in the Open AirNow , the Light in this room being such a Dissimilar mixture , as I have described in my Theory , the Causes of all these Phenomenon must be the same that I have there assigned .
And I see no reason to suspect , that the same Phenomenon should have other causes in the Open Air .
The success of this Experiment may be easily conjectured by the appearances of things in a Church or Chappel , whose windores are of coloured glass ; or in the Open Air , when it is illustrated with Clouds of various colours .
There are yet other ways , by which I have produced Whiteness ; as by casting several Colours from two or more Prisms upon the same place , by Refracting a Beam of Light with two or three Prisms successively , to make the diverging colours converge again ; by Reflecting one colour to another ; and by looking through a Prisme on an Object of many colours ; and , ( which is equivalent to the above mentioned way of mixing colours by concave Wedges filled with coloured liquors , ) I have observed the shadows of a painted Glass-window to become White , where those of many colours have at a great distance interfered .
But yet , for further satisfaction , the Animadversor may try , if he please , the effects of four or five of such Wedges filled with liquors of as many several colours .
Besides all these , the Colours of Water-bubbles and other thin pellucid substances afford several instances of Whiteness produced by their mixture ; with one of which I shall conclude this particular .
Let some Water , in which a convenient quantity of Soap or wash-ball is dissolved , be agitated into Froth , and , after that froth has stood a while without further agitation , till you see the bubbles , of which it consists , begin to break , there will appear a great variety of colours all over the top of every bubble , if you view them near at hand ; but , if you view them at so great a distance that you cannot distinguish the colours one from another , the Froth will appear perfectly White .
Thus much concerning the design and substance of the Animadversor 's Considerations .
There are yet some particulars to be taken notice of , before I conclude ; as the denial of the Experimentum Crucis .
On this I chose to lay the whole stress of my discourse ; which therefore was the principal thing to have been objected against .
But I cannot be convinced ot its insufficiency by a bare denial without assigning a Reason for it .
I am apt to believe , it has been misunderstood ; for otherwise it would have prevented the discourses about Rarefying and Splitting of rays ; because the design of it is , to show , that Rays of divers colours , considered a part , do at Equal Incidences suffer Unequal Refractions , without being split , rarefied , or any ways dilated .
11 .
That the Experimentum crucis is such .
In the Considerations of my first and second Propositions , the Animadversor hath rendred my Doctrine of Un-equal Refrangibility very imperfect and maimed , by explicating it wholly by the Splitting of rays ; whereas I chiefly intended it in those Refractions that are performed without that supposed Irregularity ; such as the Experimentum Crucis might have informed him of .
And , in general I find , that , whilst he hath endeavoured to explicate my Propositions Hypothetically , the more material suggestions , by which I designed to recommend them , have escaped his consideration ; such as are , The Unchangeableness of the degree of Refrangibility peculiar to any sort of rays ; the strict Analogy between the degrees of Refrangibility and Colours ; the Distinction between compounded and un-compounded colours ; the Unchangeableness of un-compounded colours ; and the Assertion , that if any one of the Prismatique colours be wholly intercepted , that colour cannot be new produced out of the remaining Light by any further Refraction or Reflexion whatsoever .
And of what strength and efficacy these Particulars are for enforcing the Theory , I desire therefore may be now considered .
12 .
Some particulars recommended to further consideration .

