On Magnetic Influence in the Solar Rays .
By Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. IM .
A. F.R.S. of Trinity College , Carmbridge ; Fellow of the Cambridge Philosophical Society : of the Royal Military Academy .
Communicated November 15 , 1825 .
Read January 19 , 1826 .
-[Phil .
Trans. 1826 , Part III .
p. 219 .
] The object of this communication is to show , by a series of experiments , that the sun 's rays possess sensible magnetic properties , which are observable in the vibrations of a magnetic needle exposed to them independent of their heating effect ; and also to point out the changes which take place in the intensity of a needle 's magnetism , from changes of temperature , as deduced from its times of vibration .
The main fact noticed by the author , indicative of a magnetic influence in the solar rays , is this ; -that a magnetic needle vibrating , exposed to the rays of the sun , comes to rest more quickly than when vibrating in the shade .
A needle , six inches long , contained in a brass compass-box with a glass cover , was suspended by a fine hair , and made to vibrate , alternately shaded and exposed to the sun .
The shade was produced by a wooden screen , supported four feet above the box .
It was then found that ( setting off from the same point , ) the 100th vibration could be very distinctly noted in the shade , but none further than the 75th in the sun .
So far , too , from the increase of temperature in the needle having caused the vibrations to be performed slower in the latter case , they were actually executed some , what more rapidly .
In another experiment a heavier needle was suspended by a fine wire , and when heated by exposure to the sun its decrease of intensity was ascertained by torsion of the wire , and was found to correspond nearly with the author 's previous determinations ; but the terminal arc , after fifty vibrations made in the sun , was found always considerably less than after the same number in the shade , the initial arcs being the same in both cases .
Other observations made in strong sunshine , and of which a detail is given , led to the same conclusions ; the terminal arc in the shade , after forty vibrations , being 140 , and in the sun only 8- , the initial arc being 90 ? .
That this effect does not arise from change of temperature and intensity in the needle is evident from the observations themselves .
To show that it does not arise from change of temperature in the brass box , the author heated the box over a fire till its heat was barely supportable by the hand ' ; and the needle being vibrated alternately in the box so heated , and in the cold box ( but in neither case exposed to the sun ) , the effect of increased temperature was found decidedly and considerably the reverse of that of the solar ra ; diation , the terminal arc being materially increased by the heat , -a circumstance , he thinks , indicative of a diminished capacity for magnetism in brass at an elevated temperature .
The author next tried the effect of an elevation of temperature in the needle itself , by dipping it in boiling water , but found no sensible effect on the terminal arc .
The small accelerations in the times of vibrations in the experiments first described , the author attributes to the diminution of the arcs .
The first observations in which the peculiar effect was noticed were made June 4 , 1824 ; and he regrets that his absence from home during the hot and clear weather of the summer of 1825 , prevented his extending the inquiry by further and obvious experiments .
Meanwhile he regards these observations as tending considerably to remove the doubts raised respecting the influence of the violet ray in Professor Morichini 's experiments , arising from their repeated failures in the ablest hands .

