124 Prof. J. R. Green .
On Germination of the [ Fob .
8 , paper .
For the present it seems best to regard this organ as simply a sporangium-pedicel , though there is no analogy among known Cryptogams for the presence of a vascular bundle in the stalk of a sporangium .
It appears that all species of Sphenop in which the fructification is known , had essentially similar strobili , with pedicellate sporangia .
The genus Sphenophyllum cannot be placed in any existing family of Vascular Cryptogams .
Anatomically there are some striking points of resemblance to Lycopodiaceae , but the habit and fructification are totally different from anything in that order .
Sphenophyllum , in fact , constitutes a group by itself , which is entirely unrepresented at the present epoch , and the affinities of which cannot be determined until additional forms have been discovered .
The paper is illustrated by numerous photographs from the actual preparations and specimens , and by a long series of camera-lucida drawings , executed by Mr. George Brebner .
II .
" Researches on the Germination of the Pollen Grain and the Nutrition of the Pollen Tube .
" By J. Reynolds Green , M.A. , B.Sc. , Professor of Botany to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , F.R.S. , C.M.G. , C.LE , Received January 2 , 1894 .
( From the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Q-ardens , Kew .
) ( Abstract .
) Many observers , especially Van Tieghem and Mangin , have established the fact that the growth of the pollen tube is a process of true germination , strictly comparable to that of the growth of the prothallus from the spore in the groups of Vascular Cryptogams .
The germinative process is carried on at the expense of various reserve materials deposited partly in the pollen grain itself and partly in the conducting tissue of the style , down which the pollen tube makes its way .
The existence of certain enzymes in the pollen grain has also been proved by Van Tieghem and by Strasburger .
The former has shown that when the pollen of several genera , especially Crocus and Narcissus , is cultivated in cane-sugar solutions , a certain amount of grape-sugar is produced in the culture , suggesting the presence of invertase ; while the latter has shown similarly that certain pollens , when cultivated in starch paste , can liquefy it , with the formation of maltose .
1894 .
] Pollen Grain and the Nutrition of the Pollen lube .
125 The object of the present research was to isolate these enzymes and to investigate any changes in the amount of either of them during the progress of the germination .
Further , to ascertain something of the metabolism going on in both the pollen grain and the style in the interval between pollination and fertilisation .
Both the enzymes were prepared from bruised grains by the use of the ordinary solvents\#151 ; water , glycerine , and solutions of common salt\#151 ; the latter being , perhaps , the most efficient .
Details of the experiments , and the conditions of extraction , are given in the paper of which this is an abstract .
Diastase was found in the resting pollen of various species of Lilium , Anemone , Antirrhinum , Tropceolum , Pelargonium , Crocus , Helleborus , Alnus , Tulipa , and Olivia , and in that of Zamia after germination had begun .
The diastase is in the form of the translocation diastase of Brown and Morris .
Invertase was found in the pollen of Helleborus , Narcissus , Bichardia , Lilium , and Zamia .
Some of these species contained both enzymes .
During the germination of the pollen grain the quantity of both enzymes was found to show a considerable increase in amount , in some cases even four or five fold .
This increase was estimated by noting the diastatic or invertive power of extracts prepared side by side , from weighed quantities of pollen , and from equal quantities allowed to germinate in various culture fluids .
Control experiments were carried out to show that the increase of enzyme action was not due to a more complete extraction of the ferment from the thin-walled tube than was possible from the thick-walled grain , but that there was an actual total increase of the enzyme .
In one case there was noticed a diminution of ferment in the earliest stages of the germination , which may probably be correlated with the digestion of the starch grains of the grain , or of some portion of them , before the output of the pollen tube .
It was found , further , that when the power of germination of the pollen grain was becoming feeble , from its being kept for some weeks , there was a very considerable diminution of the amount of diastase that could be extracted .
Full details of these experiments are given in the paper .
The mode of growth and nutrition of the pollen tube was investigated by culture of the grain in hanging drops of fluid in a moist chamber , and by chemical analysis of the contents of various pollen grains and styles .
The microscopic examination of pollen tubes revealed general granularity of their contents , with the formation of certain large and refringent granules , that were apparently extruded regularly by the tube at definite places near the top .
This appearance has already been noticed by Van Tieghem , to whose work reference is made .
The extrusion of these granules suggests that they are the medium 126 Prof. J. R. Green .
On Germination of the [ Feb. 8 , of excretion of the enzyme , which can readily be detected in the culture fluid .
The reserve stores of the pollen grain differ in various species .
They include starch , possibly in some cases dextrin , cane sugar , maltose , and glucose .
The intracellular action of diastase can be noticed in the cases in which it is present , by the transformation of the starch granules as they pass along the tube , iodine staining them blue in the grain and upper part of the tube , then purple , and finally almost red as the tip is approached ; indicating thus the gradually increasing formation of dextrin , one of the accompaniments of starch digestion .
Quantitative estimations of the sugars are quoted in detail in the paper .
The distribution of starch in the style of the Lily was found to have a close relation to the progress of the pollen tube .
The cells lining the cavity of the style , and the cells of the loose conducting tissue abutting on it , were found to contain starch grains , in greater or less amounts , varying with the species and with the age of the individual style .
The outer soft tissue of the fibro-vascular bundles of this organ were also charged with crowds of starch grains , indicating a transport of this reserve material from the leaves .
Cane sugar , maltose , and possibly glucose , were found to be the sugars present in the various styles examined .
In longitudinal preparations the starch was found to stop short some few mm. below the stigma , suggesting the view that the reserves in the style are intended to supplement those in the pollen grain , the latter being utilised in the early stages of germination .
Hot only reserve materials can be found in the style , but in certain cases diastase also exists .
The action of the enzymes of the pollen is thus found to be partly intracellular , digesting the contents of the pollen grain , and partly extracellular , being excreted into the tissue of the style to work npon the external reserves .
This is particularly noteworthy in the case of Narcissus , where the grain contains invertase , but , according to Van Tieghem , no cane sugar .
The latter is found in considerable quantity in the style .
The development of the enzyme is not a phenomenon of starvation .
The increased production noted is partly an effect of the absorption of food material which appears to act as a stimulant to its production .
Evidence on this point is quoted in the paper .
The absorption of food material often leads to an increase of starch in the grain and in the tube .
The increase of enzyme noted in certain cases lends a certain amount of support to the view that the enzyme exists in the pollen grain in the form of a zymogen .
Some evidence bearing out this 1894 .
] Pollen Grain and the Nutrition of the Pollen Tube .
127 view is derived from some experiments on the pollen of Zamia .
A watery extract of this pollen was found to have no diastatic power , but on being warmed with a little malic acid for some hours , and then neutralised , it was found to have acquired a feeble one , very slowly hydrolysing some thin starch paste .
Further experiments upon this point are , however , necessary before pronouncing decidedly that the zymogen exists .
The whole of the researches may be summarised as under:\#151 ; 1 .
Diastase and invertase are both present in pollen grains , and can be extracted from them by the same treatment as has been found effectual in the cases of seeds and foliage leaves .
The relative quantities vary a good deal ; while some pollens contain both , others possess only one , which may be either of the two .
2 .
At the onset of germination the amount of both diastase and invertase is usually considerably increased .
In one species examined this increase was preceded by a primary diminution .
When the pollen grain has lost the pow-er of germinating , the quantity of diastase has considerably decreased .
3 .
The pollen tube is nourished during its growth by plastic reserve material derived from two sources , the store of material in the grain itself , and a further store deposited in the style .
4 .
The reserve store of the pollen grain consists of different materials in different species : starch , dextrin , cane sugar , maltose , and glucose being the forms in which it is found .
5 .
The store in the style consists usually of the same carbohydrates , with the exception of dextrin .
6 .
The style itself contains enzymes to assist in preparing the reserve materials for absorption by the pollen tube , while the latter excretes the same ferments during its progress down the conducting tissue .
7 .
The absorption of food material appears to be one cause of the increase of enzyme found to occur during the germination .
8 .
This absorption of food material is usually so active that the reserve store of the pollen grain is often largely increased by a temporary deposition , either in the grain or its tube , of some of the absorbed sugar in the form of starch .
9 .
There is a certain amount of evidence pointing to the existence of zymogens in some pollens , particularly such as germinate in a faintly acid medium.-

