The following communications were read , viz. ยง 1 .
The reading of a paper entitled , " On the Localities affected by Hoar-frost , the peculiar currents of Air excited by it , and the Temperature during its occurrence at High and Low Stations .
" By James Farquharson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Minister of the Parish of Alford , was resumed and concluded .
The author states that he has been accustomed , for the last forty years , to make observations on the occurrence of hoar-frost , and the circumstances under which it takes place , with a view of obtaining a correct explanation of the causes of that phenomenon .
It is wellknown , he observes , that the localities chiefly affected with hoarfrost are the bottoms of valleys , and land-locked places of all kinds , whether natural or artificial .
The altitude to which its effects reach on the sides of the valleys is dependent on the mean temperature of the day and night at the time of its occurrence : when that temperature is high , the lower places only are affected by the frost ; but when low , the frost extends to much higher grounds .
Hoar-frost occurs only during a calm state of the air , and when the sky is clear ; but the stillness of the air in the bottoms of the valley is invariably accompanied by downward currents of air along all the sloping sides of the valley ; and it is to this fact , first noticed by the author , that he wishes more particularly to direct the attention of the Society , as affording a decisive proof of the correctness of the views he entertains , being in accordance with the theory of Dr. Wells .
He finds that after sunset , in all seasons of the year , and at all mean temperatures of the air , and whether or not the ground be covered with snow , whenever the sky is clear , although there may be a dead calm at the bottoms of the valleys , currents of air , more or less strong and steady , run downwards on the inclined lands , whatever may be their aspect with reference to the points of the compass .
These currents are the result of the sudden depression of temperature sustained by the surface of the earth in consequence of rapid radiation , by which the stratum of air in immediate contact with that surface , becoming specifically heavier by condensation , descends into the valley , and is replaced by air which has not been thus cooled , and which therefore prevents the formation of hoar-frost on the surface of these declivities .
2 .
" Term-Observations of Magnetic Observations , the Variation of the Magnetic Declination , Horizontal Intensity and Inclination at Prague ; for June , July , September , and October 1840 .
" By Prof. Kreil .
Communicated by S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S. 3 .
" Term-Observations of the Variation of the Magnetic Decli ?
nation , Horizontal Intensity and Inclination at Milan ; for June 1840 .
" By Francesco Carlini , For .
Memb. R.S. .
Director of the Observatory .

