The reading of Dr. PAVY 's paper , entitled " An Experimental Inquiry into the nature of the metamorphosis of Saccharine Matter , as a normal process of the animal economy , " was resumed and concluded .
The author begins by observing , that the saccharine matter met with in the animal economy is derived from two sources-from the vegetable kingdom , and from the liver of the animal itself ; in each case being poured into the general circulation through the hepatic veins .
The liver not only enjoys the power of forming sugar , but it likewise exerts ( as shown by the experiments of Bernard ) some modifying influence over that which is traversing its capillaries and which has been absorbed from the food , by which it is transformed from vegetable into animal sugar , and thus rendered more apt for serving in the processes of animal life .
The sugar poured into the general circulation through the hepatic veins is conveyed to the capillaries of the lungs , where it in great part disappears , but never entirely so , according to very numerous a nialyses which the author has made on this subject .
If the blood be traced onwards from the arteries through the systemic capillaries i ; -ito the veins , the small amount of sugar which impregnates arteriat blood will be found to be still undergoing a process of destruction ; and what appears exceedingly interesting , this process of destruection is not carried on with equal activity in the different parts of the system at large .
In the capillaries of the chylo-poietic viscera , the destruction is so complete , that the blood in the portal vein nay be entirely free from saccharine principle , when the blood returning from other parts , as that contained in the femoral or jugular veinis , remains slightly impregnated .
This curious fact has a bearing that will be presenitly adverted to , with reference to the views to be advanced concerning the nature of the metamorphosis of sugar in the animal economy .
The principal seat of destruction of saccharine matter in the animal system being located in the respiratory organs , seems at first sight to support the theory of Liebig-that sugar is one of those substances which undergoes a process of combustion , by its direct combination with oxygen and its resolution into water and carbonic acid .
Some experiments on the temporary obstruction of the respiration and the examination of arterial blood before and after the operation , led the author to call in question this view , as he observed that notwithstanding the supply of oxygen was cut off to such an extent as almost to occasion death , yet a considerable destruction of sugar took place in the lungs .
This , coupled with the fact that a disappearance of sugar takes place in the systemic capillaries , and unequally so in different portions of them , induced him to push his investigations , and see if there might not be some other cause in operation in the living animal to effect the normal destruction of sugar , besides the direct chemical action of the oxygen absorbed in respiration .
The results of these investigations , which were first directed towards the changes produced in blood normally containing sugar , injected through the capillaries of lungs removed from the animal , and artificially inflated with atmospheric air or oxygen gas , have induced the author to refer the metamorphosis of sugar in the animal economy , toa process which is perfectly consistent and analogous with the well-known chemical bearings of this substance apart from the animal system .
In experiments which the author has now several times repeated , he injected blood removed from the right side of the heart of an animal-and therefore normally containing sugar-through the capillaries of the artificially iniflated lungs of another ; and found that as long as the blood retains its fibrine , there is as much destruction of its sugar as would take place in the living animal ; but that where the fibrine has been separated from the serum and -corpuscles , the sugar ceases to be influenced by the presence of oxygen , or ceases to disappear during this process of artificial respiration .
It would hence appear , that something besides mere contact with oxygen is requisite for the destruction of sugar .
But in other experiments , he has found that oxygen is nevertheless a necessary agent concerned in the process of transformation observed during the arterialization of the blood that has not undergone spontaneous coagulation .
It would therefore seem , in fact , that oxygen acts secondarily on the sugar through the medium of the fibrinous constituent of the .
blood:-that it exerts some changes upon this azotized principle , which are capable of inducing the metamorphosis of sugar .
If we look to the ordinary chemical bearings of saccharine matter apart from the animal system , we find that an azotized substance undergoing the molecular changes of decomposition , placed in contact with sugar readily excites a process of fermentation , and converts it by a mere alteration of the grouping of its elements into another substance , one atom of sugar ( C12 H12 012 ) being resolved into two atoms of lactic acid ( C6 H6 06 ) .
We also find that sugar is not susceptible of oxidation except under the influence of strong chemical reagents .
Chemical analogy , therefore , would lead us to look upon the secondary action of oxygen as the , more probable process of physiological destruction ; especially when we take into consideration , that nowhere do we meet with such a constant series of molecular changes taking place as amongst the azotized colnstituents of a living animal .
In the above-mentioned experiment of injecting fibrinated and defibrinated blood through an artificially inflated lung , when the blood is capable of undergoing the molecular chan es 20 of assimilation on contact with oxygen as in the living animal , the sugar in great part disappears , but so soon as the fibrine is separated by spontaneous coagulation , and the blood has thus lost its vital characteristics , oxygen is no longer capable of exerting any metamorphosing influence on its saccharine ingredients .
If the molecular changes occurring during the decomposition of an azotized substance be capable of converting sugar into lactic acid , why should not the molecular changes occurring during the building-up or elalboration of this same nitroge nized compound effect the same ?
Indeed , we have seen that the process of destruction is carried on to a certain extent in the systemic capillaries , and more especially in those of the chylo-poietic viscera , where the molecular changes of nutrition are also correspondingly carried on with greater activity than elsewhere .
So that analogy and experiment would tend to show that the physiological destruction of sugar is owing to a process similar to fermentation induced by the molecular changes occurring in the nitrogenized constituents of the animal during life .
And , in accordance with this , we find lactic acid present in the system , and largely separated from arterial blood by the muscular tissue , and the secerning follicles of the stomach .
As regards the lactic acid fermentation , it is well known that the presence of an alkali favours , whilst that of an acid retards the process .
In two experiments on animals , the author injected carbonate of soda and phosphoric acid into the circulating current , and observed in the case of the latter that sugar immediately accumulated in the blood .
The preceding observations refer more especially to the changes that take place in the saccharine ingredient of the blood during life ; and the author next proceeds to notice some interesting phe .
nomena observable during the decomposition , and even the spontaneous coagulation of blood containing sugar .
If the blood of an animal normally impregnated with sugar be placed aside , and allowed to undergo spontaneous coagulation , on examining separately the serum and clot on the following day , it will be found , that although the serum may be largely saturated with sugar , the clot is entirely , or almost entirely destitute of it .
Now , as the clot is moist and remains to a certain extent infiltrated with the serum from which it has partially separated , it would appear that even the molecular changes arising from the spontaneous coagulation of the blood are sufficient to effect the destruction of normal animal sugar .
And this conclusion is strengthened by the fact , that in diabetic blood ( the sugar of which , as would appear from other considerations also , is not so susceptible of metamorphosis as the healthy variety ) the sugar does not disappear to a similar extent in the clot .
Under the changes of the decomposition of blood , normal animal glucose is very readily metamorphosed .
The rapidity of the metamorphosis depends on the activity of the decomposition of the animal substances present , and when the destruction of the sugar is complete the blood has assumed an acid reaction .
This acid reaction of decomposing blood is only observable in that which was previously pretty largely impregnated with sugar .
It appears to be owing to the formation of lactic acid .
Certainly , it cannot be due to carbonic acid , for the reaction remains after exposure to a boiling temperature .
The disappearance of sugar in the manner just pointed out does not depend on the oxygen of the air , except in so far as this agent is concerned in exciting the decomposition of the azotized constituents of the blood ; for the sugar disappears as rapidly when there is a small , as when there is a large amount of surface exposed to the air .
But if the air be carefully and completely excluded , no signs of decomposition of the animal parts of the blood are to be observed , and under these circumstances the sugar also remains .
T'he disappearance of sugar is more rapid where the fibrine and corpuscles are present , than when the serum is exposed alone ; and in accordance with this , the blood in the one case undergoes decomposition much sooner than in the other-a fact easily intelligible from the greater amount of azotized ingredients present .
If blood normally impregnated with saccharine matter be placed aside until signs of incipient decomposition are observed , and the sugar is beginning to disappear , exposure to a current of oxygen rapidly completes the total disappearance of the saccharine constituent .
In this observation we have a further illustration of the analogy that appears to exist , in the nature of the metamorplhosis of sugar as a physiological process , and that which takes place chemically under the influence of an azotized compound , whose elementary particles are in a state of molecular transition .
During life , the higher organic constituents of the blood are capable of undergoing the changes of assimilation on exposure to contact with oxygen , and there is a considerable destruction of sugar effected ; for a short period after death these azotized constituents remain stationary and uninfluenced by oxygen , and with this , there is a corresponding suspension of the transformation of sugar ; but finally , the animal matter of the blood on contact with oxygen , especially during a warm temperature , assumes a state of decomposition , the molecular changes of which again excite the destruction or metamorphosis of saccharine matter .
The sugar disappears far less rapidly from diabetic blood under the influence of exposure to the atmosphere , than from healthy right-ventricular blood .
From these , and a few other observations which he has as yet been able to make on the blood in Diabetes Mellitus , the author , were he to hazard an opinion on the nature of that obsc-ure disease , would be disposed to say that there appears to be a modification of sugar produced by the liver , which is not susceptible of undergoing the normal process of destruction in the animal system , and which , therefore , accumulating in the blood , is eliminated by the kidneys .
The experiments of Bernard have shown that vegetable glucose ( grape-sugar ) is not susceptible of destruction in the processes of animal life , unless converted into animal glucose by the agency of the liver .
Diabetic sugar would therefore seem to bear a resemblance in its physiological relations to vegetable , rather than to animal glucose .

