II .
Letter to the President from Lieut.-Colonel WALKER , R.E. ) F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Trigonometrical Survey of India .
" Dehra Done via Bombay , 31st May , 1866 .
MY DEAR GENERAL , -Captain Basevi has just returned to my head quarters , on the close of the operations of his first field-season with the pendulums .
You will be glad to hear that his progress has on the whole been very satisfactory .
At the outset he met with numerous difficulties ; the xacuum apparatus was very troublesome , the air-pump constantly getting out of order , and the receiver as constantly leaking .
It is very easy for philosophers to suggest improvements and refinements in the modus operandi of such operations , but it is not so easy to carry them out practically .
Capt. Basevi has undergone a great amount of labour and anxiety , but he has successfully surmuounted all his difficulties .
* Instances have occurred in the Lake District of persons who have perished on the hills from prolonged exposure to strong wind and rain , storm-stricken , in the language of the country .
t ( ... La cong6lation complete a mime si profondement altere les tissus de l'organisme que quand l'animal est tout a fait degele , son corps est flasque et mou , ses cristallins sont blancs et opaques , et souvent sa coloration est tout a fait alter6e " ( p. 24 ) .
He has taken experiments at the following stations , which you will find in the chart at the end of Everest 's description of the measurement of the Indian Arc , Dehra Done , Nojli , Kaliana , Dateri , and Usira .
At Debra Done he took six sets of observations with each pendulum ; but finding he could advance more rapidly than the observatories could be got ready for him , at the subsequent stations he took ten sets of observations with each pendulum .
Each set was carried over eight to nine hours , from 9 A.M. to 5 ' P.M. The pendulum was set in motion in the morning , the coincidences were observed , and the thermometers and arc of vibration were read hourly , until the set terminated in the afternoon .
The first and last coincidences will be used only for determining the number of vibrations ; but the whole of the intermediate temperatures and arcs will be employed for determining the corrections for temperature and arc .
He was very fortunate in his transits , only losing four nights in sixty ; complete sets of observations were twice taken at Kaliana ( the northern extremity of the Indian arc ) in December , when the temperature was lowest , and again this month when it was highest ; the range was not so great as we had anticipated , being 58 ?
in the first instance , and 92 ?
in the second , so that the results will scarcely be applicable to the observations at Kew , where , to the best of my recollection , the temperature was between 40 ?
and 50 ?
; but they will amply suffice for all the observations that are likely to be taken in India .
He endeavoured to observe at a constant pressure , but the leaking of the cylinder prevented this ; however , the whole range of pressure does not exceed 3 inches , and the average range is much less , the maximum being 5 inches and the minimum 2 .
He is about to commence a series of observations at Masoori , at an altitude of about 6800 feet above the sea .
He hopes to complete these during June , before the rainy season sets in , when transits will be impossible .
During the rains he will be employed in completing the calculations connected with his experiments .
By September I hope to be able to send you the final results .
He has had so much to do in surmounting the difficulties arising from his new apparatus , that he could not manage to take any magnetic observations .
In future , however , he hopes to be able to take these observations regularly at each of his pendulum stations .
I trust that you will be gratified with this account of his first year 's operations .
No pains have been spared to secure results of the highest possible value , and to reward the confidence you reposed in us , when you suggested to the India Office that we should undertake these delicate and difficult operations .
Believe me , yours sincerely , General Sabine , P.R.S. J. WALKER .

