III .
" Note on Professor Faraday 's Recent Experiments on Regelation .
' By Professor JAMES THOMSON , Queen 's College , Belfast .
Communicated by Professor WILLIASM THOMSON .
Received April 25 , 1861 .
Some time ago* , Principal James I. Forbes showed that two slabs of ice , having each a face ground tolerably flat , and being both suspended in an atmosphere a little above the freezing-point upon a horizontal rod of glass passed through two holes in the plates of ice , so that the plates might hang vertically and in contact with one another , would unite gradually so as to adhere strongly together .
This interesting experiment Principal Forbes adduced as being in opposition to the theory offered by met of the plasticity of ice , and of the tendency of pieces of thawing ice to unite when placed in contact .
He thought it showed that pressure was not essential to the union of the two pieces of ice .
I pointed out , in reply , that the film of water between the two slabs , being held up against gravity by the capillary tension or contractile force of its free upper surface , and being distended besides against the atmospheric pressure , by the contractile force of its free surface round its whole perimeter-except for a very small space at bottom , from which water trickles away , or is on the point of trickling away , -exists under a pressure which , though increasing from above downwards , is everywhere , except at that little space near the bottom , less than atmospheric pressure:that hence the two slabs are urged against one another by the excess of the external atmospheric pressure above the internal water pressure , and are thus pressed against one another by a force quite notable in amount ; -that , further , the film of water existing as it does , under less than atmospheric pressure , has its freezing-point raised in virtue of the reduced pressure ; and would therefore freeze even at the temperature of the surrounding ice , which I took to be the freezing-point for atmospheric pressure ; and would still more strongly be impelled to freeze by the joint action of this condition with the cold given out in the melting by pressure of the ice at the points of contact where the two slabs are urged against one another .
To this explanation of Principal Forbes 's experiment I still adhere as mainly correct , though admitting of some further development and slight modification in reference to a point to which I shall have to make further allusion in what follows , and which seems to me to be as yet rather obscure : the influence , namely , of the tension in the ice due to its own weight , which makes it not be subject internally to simply atmospheric pressure:--and though I shall also , in what follows , point out some additional conditions , almost necessarily present in the experiment , which , under my general view of the plasticity of ice , would act in conjunction with those already adduced , and would increase the rapidity of the union .
Professor Faraday , holding it in view to remove the ground on which my explanation of Principal Forbes 's experiment was founded , has contrived and carried out a set of new and very beautiful experiments from which the capillary action referred to has been completely eliminated , and he has still found the union of the ice to occur , and to increase with time , and has met with a curious additional phenomenon of C , flexible adhesion " .
In these experiments , when two pieces of ice , rounded so as to be convex at their points where mutual contact is to be allowed , are placed in water , and are either anchored so as to be wholly under water , or are placed floating when so formed that they can touch one another only under water , and that , at the water surface , there shall be a wide space between them so that there shall be no capillary action drawing them together , he showed that the pieces of ice , in either of these cases , if brought gently into contact , will adhere together ; unless indeed the movement bringing them into contact be so directed as to introduce forces capable of tearing them apart again by obliquity of action , by agitation of the water , or by other disturbances .
He showed also that , if when the two pieces of ice have become attached at their point of contact , a slight force , such as may be given by one or two feathers , be applied , tending to separate them , at one side of their point of contact , they will roll round one another with a seemingly flexible adhesion ; or that , if the point of a floating wedge-shaped * Proceedings of Royal Society , April 26 , 1860 , vol. x. p. 440 .
piece of ice is brought under water against the side of another floating piece , it will stick to that piece like a leech .
He showed that if the pieces be allowed to remain for a few moments in contact , their adhesion will become rigid , so that on a force being applied sufficient to break through the joint , the rupture will occur with a crackling noise , though the pieces may still continue to hold together , rolling on one another with the flexible adhesion .
HIe made some other experiments nearly the same as these , but in which he showed the flexible and rigid adhesion to occur while there is constantly a decided tensile force applied externally tending to pull the pieces asunder instead of any external force tending to press them together .
He thinks that the phenomena of flexible and rigid adhesion " ' under tension " go towards showing that pressure is not necessary to " regelation .
" I-le then gives his own idea of the flexible and rigid adhesion in the following words:- " Two convex surfaces of ice come together ; the particles of water nearest to the place of contact , and therefore within the efficient sphere of action of those particles of ice which are on both sides of them , solidify ; if the condition of things be left for a moment , that the heat evolved by the solidification may be conducted away and dispersed , more particles will solidify , and ultimately enough to form a fixed and rigid junction , which will remain until a force sufficiently great to break through it is applied .
But if the direction of the force resorted to can be relieved by any hinge-like motion at the point of contact , then I think that the union is broken up amongst the particles on the opening side of the angle , whilst the particles on the closing side come within the effectual regelation distance ; regelation ensues there and the adhesion is maintained , though in ahl apparently flexible state .
The flexibility appears to me to be due to a series of ruptures on one side of the centre of contact , and of adhesion on the other , the regelation , which is dependent on the vicinity of the ice surfaces , being transferred as the place of efficient vicinity is changed .
That the substance we are considering is as brittle as ice , does not make any difficulty to me in respect of the flexible adhesion ; for if we suppose that the point of contact exists only at one particle , still the angular motion at that point must bring a second particle into contact ( to suffer regelation ) before separation could occur at the first ; or if , as seems proved by the supervention of the rigid adhesion upon the flexible state , many particles are concerned at once , it is not possible that all these should be broken through by a force applied on one side of the place of adhesion , before particles on the opposite side should have the opportunity of regelation , and so of continuing the adhesion .
" The interpretation thus put by Prof. Faraday on his experiments is not convincing to me ; but , on the contrary , I think the experiments are in perfect accordance with my own theory , and tend to its confirmation .
My view of the phenomena of these experiments is as follows:--The first contact of the two pieces of ice cannot occur without impact and consequent pressure ; and , small as the total force may be , its intensity must be great , as the surface of contact must be little more than a geometrical point .
This pressure produces union by the process of melting and regelation described by me in previous papers .
On the application of the forces from the two feathers , at one side of the point of contact , tending to cause separation , the isthmus of ice formed by the union of the two pieces comes to act as a the or fulcrum subject to tensile force ; and consequently a corresponding pressure will occur at the side of the isthmus , far from the feathers ; and that pressure will effect the union of the ice at the side where it occurs .
The tensile force , it may readily be supposed , tends to preserve the isthmus , internally at least , in the state of ice , whatever may be its influence on the external molecules of the isthmus , and to solidify such water as , having occupied pores in the interior during previous compression , may now , by the linear tension or pull , be reduced in cubical pressure or hydrostatic pressure , because the melting-point of wet ice is raised by diminution of pressure of the water in contact with it* .
The pull applied to the isthmus '* ow the szrfaee of a bar of ice immersed in cold water , as distinguished from the initerior of the bar , may in respect to tendency either to melt siway , or to solidify to itself additional ice from the water , be influenced by the application of linear tension to the bar , I am not quite prepared to say positively .
The application of tension , whether linear , superficial , or cubical ( that is , whether simply in one direction , or in two directions crossing one another , or in three directions crossing one another ) , to a piece of ice inmmiersed in water at any given pressure , atmospheric for instance , is very distinct from the application of what might be called cubical tension , that is , diminution of hydrostatic pressure , to the surrounding water .
In the former case the pressure of the water at the external surface of the ice will not be reduced by the application of the tension to the ice ; though that of the water in the internal pores may , or thus appears to put it out of the condition in which my theory has clearly indicated a cause of plasticity , and I presume makes it cease , or almost entirely cease , to be plastic .
I believe no plastic yielding of ice to tension has been discovered by observation in any case , and I think there are theoretical reasons why ice should be expected to be very brittle in respect to tensile forces .
The isthmus then being supposed devoid of plasticity at its extended side , ultimately breaks at that side , when the opening motion caused by the feathers has arrived at a sufficient amount to cause fracture , and the ice newly formed on the compressed side comes now to act as a the instead of the part which has undergone disruption , and holds together the two pieces of ice , or serves as a fulcrum under tension to communicate a compressive force to the points of the two pieces of ice immediately beyond it ; and so the rolling action with a constant union at the point of contact goes forward .
It is to be observed that the leverage probably in many of them must , be so ; but in the second case , the diminution of cubical pressure in the external water effects the same diminution of pressure in the ice , and also in the water occupying pores in the ice .
The theory and quantitative calculation which I originally gave ( Transactions Roy .
Soc. Edin .
vol. xiv .
part 5 .
1849 , and Cambridge and Dublin Math. Journ. Nov. 1850 ) of the effect of increase of pressure in lowering the freezing-point of water , and of course also of the effect of diminution of pressure in raising it , applied solely to effects of pressure communicated to the ice through the water , and therefore equal in all directions , and equally occurring in the ice and the water ; but when changes of pressure in one or more directions are applied to the ice as distinguished from the water , the theory does not apply in any precise way to determine the conditions of the melting of the ice , or of its growth by the freezing of the adjacent water to its surface .
There seems to me to be yet a field open for much additional theoretical and experimental investigation in this respect ; but so far as I have applied the principle of the lowering of the freezing-point of water by pressure in developing or sketching out a theory of the plasticity of ice , I think I have done so correctly .
I perceived that the application of pressures tending to change the form of the ice must necessarily , produce volume-compression in some parts of the mass , accompanied by the occurrence of increased fluid pressure in the pores which might already exist in those parts , or which would arise in them as a consequence of the pressure ; and this I thought was a sufficient basis on which to rest the theory , even without precise knowledge .
of all the varying influences on the melting or freezing of the ice or water , of all the possible varieties of pressures or stresses that could be applied to the ice , and of fluid pressure that could occur in the water contemporaneously with those stresses in the ice .
Some additional developments of this part of the subject , which have occurred to me , may , I hope , form the subject of a future paper .
of the forces applied by the feathers is so great , compared with the distance from the fulcrum or tensile part of the isthmus , to the compressed part in process of formation at the other side , as that the compression may usually be considered almost equal to the tension i and the tension in the extended part cannot be of small intensity , being sufficient to break that side of the isthmus .
In the experiments which gave flexible adhesion seemingly under tension , it is not to be admitted that tension was really the condition under which the ice existed at the places where the union was occurring .
To apply a simple disruptive force to the whole isthmus of ice , it would be necessary to take very special precautions in order to arrange that the line of application of the disruptive forces should pass through the point of contact of the two pieces .
If that were done , and the forces were gradually increased till the cohesive strength of the isthmus were overcome , it is clear that the two pieces of ice would separate altogether , and there would be no flexible adhesion ; but the flexible adhesion , when it occurs , is essentially dependent on the existence of an intense pressure at the side of the isthmus remote from the line of the externally applied disruptive forces , or of the single force applied in some of the experiments to one only of the pieces , and resisted by the inertia of the other .
It is further to be observed that tremors and slight agitations to which the two pieces of ice united at their point of contact , may be subject , arising from undulations imparted to the water in which the ice is immersed , by manipulation of the experimenter , -from the tread of people on adjacent floors , --from the passage of vehicles on neighbouring streets , -from convective movements of the water , and from other causes , will be sources of power or energy operative in bringing about an increase of adhesion with time ; that is to say , in changing gradually the flexible into the rigid adhesion .
It will now of course be obvious that the conditions involved in the explanation just offered of Prof. Faraday 's experiments must also usually be present in the experiment of Principal Forbes .
Their incidental occurrence , however , as additional causes increasing the rapidity of the union of the two slabs of ice , does not overthrow the particular explanation of Principal Forbes 's experiment which I had offered as a perfect answer to the objection raised by that experiment against my general view of the plasticity of ice ; and as indicating clearly and certainly the occurrence of all the conditions required for the union of the two pieces of ice under my theory .
The contingent occurrence of the additional conditions now specially brought forward , was indeed from the first somewhat familiar to my mind , but was left out of the explanation as being unessential and not perhaps quite so clearly apparent .
Their occurrence has , however , now become essential to the explanation of Prof. Faraday 's new experiments : and by it I consider these are shown not to militate against my general theory of the plasticity of ice , but to corroborate it strongly , and to confirm its application to the various observed cases of the union of two pieces of moist ice when placed in contact .

