247 is subjected , at the rate of 8 inches a day ; which , if the action were uniform at all seasons , would amount to 240 feet a year .
The author also describes a system of remarkable bands of white ice which he observed to sweep across the Glacier du Geant in the same general direction as the " dirt-bands .
" He traced these bands to the following origin .
The streams which flow upon the glacier in its upper portions , cut deep channels in the ice ; these channels , during the winter , become gorged with snow , which is afterwards compressed to a highly resistant white ice during the descent of the glacier .
Similar bands were also observed in a most remarkable position at the base of the Talefre cascade ; and here also he found the glacier crumpled into a series of protuberances , one consequence of the crumpling being the production of a " backward " as well as a forward " dip " of the veined structure .
A similar system of protuberances occurs on the Glacier du Geant ; and here also the author found the same structure dipping backward as well as forward .
The cause of the crumpling is assigned in the paper .
The physical quality in virtue of which ice is able to change its form in the manner indicated by the observations is next inquired into ; and it is shown by measurements carried out upon the glacier itself , that no quality which could with propriety be called viscosity is possessed by glacier ice .
All the phenomena appear to be reconciled by reference to the fragility of ice at a temperature of 32 ?
F. , coupled with its power of regelation .
The intestine motion of the parts is no doubt aided to some extent by the partial liquefaction of the ice by pressure ; a fact first publicly pointed out by Mr. James Thomson , and proved experimentally by Prof. William Thomson and the author .
June 3 , 1858 .
The LORD WROTTESLEY , President , in the Chair .
The Annual General Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day , The Statutes respecting the election of Fellows having been read , Sir George Back and Mr. Gwynn Jeffreys were , with the consent of the Society , appointed Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
248 The votes of the Fellows present having been collected , the following gentlemen were declared duly elected : Thomas Graham Balfour , M.D. David Livingstone , LL. D. Edward Mounier Boxer , Captain John Lubbock , Esq. R.A. Henry Darwin Rogers , LL. D. Frederick Currey , Esq. William ScovellSavory , Esq. , M.B. David Forbes , Esq. WaringtonWilkinson Smyth , Esq. Alfred Baring Garrod , M.D. Lieut.-Col. Andrew Scott Waugh , William Henry Harvey , M.D. B.E. The Rev. Samuel Haughton .
Thomas Williams , M.D. Henry Hennessy , Esq. June 10 , 1858 .
The LORD WROTTESLEY , President , in the Chair .
The following Gentlemen were admitted into the Society : Thomas Graham Balfour , M.D. ; Frederick Currey , Esq. ; Alfred Baring Garrod , M.D. ; John Lubbock , Esq. ; William Scovell Savory , Esq. , M.B. ; Warington Wilkinson Smyth , Esq. ; Thomas Williams , M.D. The following communications were read : I. " On the formation of Continuous Tabular Masses of Stony Lava on steep slopes ; with Remarks on the Mode of Origin of Mount Etna , and the Theory of 'Craters of Elevation .
" ' " By Sir CHARLES LYELL , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received June 10 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The question whether lava can consolidate on a steep slope , so as to form strata of stony and compact rock , inclined at angles of from 10 ?
to more than 300 , has of late years acquired considerable importance , because geologists of high authority have affirmed that lavas which congeal on a declivity exceeding 5 ?
or 6 ?
are never continuous and solid , but are entirely composed of scoriaceous and fragmentary materials .
From the law thus supposed to govern the consolidation of melted matter of volcanic origin , it has been logically inferred that all great volcanic mountains owe their conical form principally to upheaval or to a force acting from below and exerting an 249 upward and outward pressure on beds originally horizontal or nearly horizontal .
For in all such mountains there are found to exist some stony layers dipping at 10 ?
, 15 ?
, 25 ?
, or even higher angles ; and according to the assumed law , such an inclined position of the beds must have been acquired subsequently to their origin .
After giving a brief sketch of the controversy respecting " Craters of Elevation , " the author describes the results of his recent visit ( October , 1857 ) to Mount Etna , in company with Signor Gaetano G. Gemmellaro , and his discovery there of modern lavas , some of known date , which have formed continuous beds of compact stone on slopes of 15 , 36 ?
, 38 ?
, and , in the case of the lava of 1852 , more than 40 ? .
The thickness of these tabular layers varies from 12 foot to 26 feet ; and their planes of stratification are parallel to those of the overlying and underlying scoriae which form part of the same currents .
The most striking examples of this phenomenon were met with--st , at Aci Real ; 2ndly , in the ravine called the Cava Grande near Milo , where a section of the lava of 1689 is obtained ; 3rdly , in the precipice at the head of the Val di Calanna , in the lava of 1852-53 ; and 4thly , at a great height above the sea near the base of the Montagnuola .
Sir C. Lyell then alludes to the extraordinary changes which had taken place in the scenery of the Valley of Calanna and the Val del Bove since his former visit to Mount Etna in 1828-changes effected by the eruption of 1852-53 , one of the greatest recorded in history .
A brief account is given , extracted from contemporary narratives and illustrated by a map , compiled with the assistance of Dr. Giuseppe Gemmellaro , of the course taken in 1852-53 by various streams of lava , some of them six miles in length , flowing during nine successive months from the head of the Val del Bove to the suburbs of Zafarana and Milo .
The present aspect of this lava-field , parts of it still hot and emitting vapour , and the numerous longitudinal ridges and furrows on its surface are described .
As to the origin of these superficial inequalities , the author inquires whether they may be due to the flowing of lava in subterranean tunnels , or whether they be anticlinal and synclinal folds caused by fresh streams pouring over preceding and half-consolidated ones , so that these last may be bent and crumpled by the newly superimposed weight , like soft yielding ground on which a railway embankment has been made .
The cas250 cade of the lava of 1852 , descending a precipitous declivity 500 feet high , called the Salto della Giumenta , and the stony character of the layers which encrust the steep slope at angles of more than 35 ?
and even 45 ?
, are commented upon .
This lava has overflowed that of 1819 , which congealed on the same precipice ; and it is shown that in such cases the junction-lines separating two successive currents must he obliterated , the bottom scoriae of the newer dovetailing into the upper scoriae of the older current .
The structure of the nucleus of Etna , as exhibited in sections in the Val del Bove , is next treated of , and the doctrine of a double axis is deduced from the varying dip of the beds .
The strata of trachyte and trachytic agglomerate in the Serra Giannicola seen at the base of the lofty precipice at the head of the Val del Bove are inclined at angles of 20 ?
to 30 ?
N.W. , i. e. towards the present central axis of eruption .
Other strata to the eastwards ( as in the hill of Zoccolaro ) dip in an opposite direction , or S.E. , while , in a great part of the north and south escarpments of the Val del Bove , the beds dip N.E. or N. , and S.E. or S. respectively .
There is , therefore , a quaquaversal dip away from some point situated in the centre of the area called the Piano di Trifoglietto .
Here a permanent axis of eruption may have existed for ages in the earlier history of Etna , for which the name of the axis of Trifoglietto is proposed , while the modern centre of eruption , that now in activity , may be called the axis of Mongibello .
The two axes , which are three miles distant the one from the other , are illustrated by an ideal section through the whole of Etna , passing from west to east through the Val del Bove , or from Bronte to Zafarana .
Touching the relative age of the two cones , it is suggested that a portion only of that of Mongibello may be newer than the cone of Trifoglietto .
The latter , when it became dormant , was entirely overwhelmed and buried under the upper and more modern lavas of the greater cone .
This doctrine of two centres , originally hinted at by the late Mario Gemmellaro , had been worked out ( unknown to Sir C. Lyell at the time of his visit ) by Baron Sartorius v. Waltershausen , and has been since supported in the fifth and sixth parts of his great work called " The Atlas of Etna " both by arguments founded on the quaquaversal dip of the beds as above explained , and by the convergence of a certain class of greenstone dikes towards the axis of Trifoglietto .
Von Waltershausen has also 251 shown that the superior lavas and volcanic formations crowning the precipices at the head of the Val del Bove , from the Serra Giannicola to the Rocca del Corvo , inclusive , are unconformable to the highly inclined beds in the lower half of the same precipice , the superior beds being horizontal , or , when inclined , dipping in such directions as would imply that they slope away from the higher parts of Mongibello .
According to Sir C. Lyell , the alleged discontinuity between the older and modern products of Etna is , in truth , only partial , and almost confined to that flank of the mountain , where its physical geography has been altered by three causes : 1st , the interference of the two foci of eruption ( Trifoglietto and Mongibello ) ; 2ndly , the truncation of the cone of Mongibello ; and 3rdly , the formation of the Val del Bove .
The truncation of the mountain here alluded to is proved by the remains of the upper portion of a cone , traceable at intervals around the borders of an elevated platform between 9000 and 10,000 feet high .
These remains bear the same relation to the highest and active cone , nearly in the centre of the platform , which Somma bears to Vesuvius .
The manner in which the north and south escarpments of the Val del Bove diminish in altitude as they trend eastward from the high platform , is appealed to as showing that the great lateral valley had no existence till after the time when Mongibello had attained its fullest development and height .
The double axis of Etna is then compared to the twofold axis of the island of Madeira , as inferred from observations made in 1854 by M. Hartung and the author .
In that island the principal chain of volcanic vents , running east and west , and 30 miles long , attains at one point a height of 6000 feet .
Parallel to it , at the distance of two miles , a shorter and lower , secondary chain once existed , but was afterwards overflowed and buried to a great depth by lavas issuing from the higher and dominant chain .
The space between the two axes , like the space which separated the two cones of Etna , has been filled up with lavas in part horizontal .
On the north side of Madeira , as probably on the west side of Etna , where no secondary centre of eruption interfered with the slope of the volcanic formations , and where the order of their succession and superposition is uninterrupted , there occur , both in Madeira and Etna , deep crateriform valleys ( the Curral and the Val del Bove ) intersecting the products of the two axes of eruption .
252 In concluding this part of his memoir , Sir C. Lyell observes , that the admission of a double axis , as explained by him , is irreconcilable with the hypothesis of " craters of elevation ; " for it implies that , in the cone-making process , the force of upheaval merely plays a subordinate part .
One cone of eruption , he says , may envelope and bury an adjoining cone of eruption ; but it is obviously impossible that one cone of upheaval should mantle round and overwhelm another cone of upheaval .
An attempt is then made to estimate the proportional amount of inclination which may be due to upheaval in those parts of the central nucleus of Etna where the dip is too great to be ascribed exclusively to the original steepness of the flanks of the cone .
The highest dip seen by the author was in the rock of Musarra , where some of the strata , consisting of scorie with a few intercalated lavas , are inclined at 47 ? .
Some masses of agglomerate and beds of lava in the Serra del Solfizio were also seen inclined at angles exceeding 40 ? .
Some of these instances are believed to be exceptional and due to local disturbance ; others may have an intimate connexion with the abundance of fissures , often of great width , filled with lava , for such dikes are much more frequent near the original centres of eruption than at points remote from them .
The injection of so much liquid matter into countless rents may imply the gradual tumefaction and distension of the volcanic mass , and may have been attended by the tilting of the beds , causing them to slope away at steeper angles than before , from the axis of eruption .
But instead of ascribing to this mechanical force , as many have done , nearly all , or about four-fifths of the whole dip , Sir C. Lyell considers that about one-fifth may , with more probability , be assigned as the effect of such movements .
The alleged parallelism and uniformity of thickness in the volcanic beds of the Val del Bove , when traced over wide areas , is next considered , and the author remarks that neither in the northern nor southern escarpments of the great valley , could he and his companion verify the existence of such parallelism .
Examples of a marked deviation from it are given , both in cliffs seen from a distance , and in others which were closely inspected , even in cases where these last , when viewed from far off , appeared to contain regular and parallel strata .
253 The direction and position of the dikes in the Val del Bove is then spoken of , both in reference to the two ancient centres of eruption , and to the question of the altered inclination of the intersected beds .
In regard to the arrangement also of the lateral cones of eruption , the question is entertained , whether they are disposed in linear zones , or are in some degree independent of the great centre of Mongibello .
The origin of the Val del Bove has been variously ascribed to engulfment , explosion , and aqueous erosion .
Admitting the probable influence of the two first causes , the author calls attention to the positive evidence in favour of aqueous denudation afforded by the accumulation of alluvium in the low country at the eastern base of Etna between the Val del Bove and the sea .
This rudely stratified deposit , 150 feet thick and several miles in length and breadth , contains at Giarre , Mangano , Riposto and other places , fragments , both rounded and angular , of all the rocks , ancient and modern , occurring in the escarpments of the Val del Bove , and it implies the continuance there for ages of powerful aqueous erosion .
The alluvium of Giarre is therefore supposed to bear the same relation to the Val del Bove that the conglomerate of the Barranco de las Angustias bears to the Caldera of Palma in the Canaries ; and those two craterlike valleys , as well as the Curral of Madeira , are believed to have been shaped out in great part by running water .
But to render this possible , the suspension , for a long period , of the outpouring of lava on the eastern flank of Etna must be assumed .
The author fully coincides in the generally received opinion that the accessible parts of Etna are of suba6rial origin , and refers to some fossil leaves presented to him by MM .
Gravina and Tornabene , of Catania , as well as to others collected by himself in situ , from the volcanic tuffs of Fasano and Licatia , which have been determined by Prof. Heer to belong to terrestrial plants , of the genera Myrtle , Laurel , and Pistachio , now living in Sicily .
These tuffs , together with the general mass of Etna , repose on marine strata of the newer Pliocene period , in which 150 species of shells , nearly nine-tenths of them identical with species now existing in the Mediterranean , have been found .
A very modern marine breccia , with shells of living species extending to the height of thirty feet on the coast along the eastern base of Etna , was pointed out to the author by Signor G. G. Gemmellaro near Trezza , and in the Island of the Cyclops .
The 254 same formation has been traced together with lithodomous perforations by Dr. Carlo Gemmellaro and Baron v. Waltershausen along the sea-shore as far north as Taormina , beyond the volcanic region of Etna .
From these and other data enlarged upon in the memoir , Sir C. Lyell concludes , first , that a very high antiquity must be assigned to the successive eruptions of Etna , each phase of its volcanic energy , as well as the excavation of the Val del Bove , having occupied a lapse of ages compared to which the historical period is brief and insignificant ; and secondly , that the growth of the whole mountain must nevertheless be referred , geologically , to the more modern part of the latest Tertiary epoch .
II .
" On some Thermo-dynamic Properties of Solids .
" By J. P. JOULE , LL. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 22 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) A resume of the greater part of this paper has already appeared in the 'Proceedings ' for January 29 , June 18 , and November 26 , 1857 .
The author has since examined the expansion by heat of wood cut across the grain , which , as well as that cut in the direction of the fibre , he finds to be increased by tension and decreased by moisture .
When a sufficient quantity of water has been absorbed the expansibility by heat ceases , and wood is contracted in each direction by rise of temperature .
Nevertheless , when wood , saturated with water , is weighed in water of different temperatures , the result shows cubical expansion of the substance of the wood by heat .
The inference drawn by the author from these facts is , that the contraction of the dimensions of wet wood is owing to the action of heat in diminishing the force of capillary attraction , and that thus the walls of the minute cells and tubes of the woody structure are partially relieved from a force which thrusts them asunder , a small quantity of water exuding at the same time .
In the case of wet wood which contracts by heat , he finds , in accordance with Professor Thomson 's formula , that a rise of temperature is produced by the application of tension .
In conformity with the deductions of the same philosopher , the author has also been able to detect experimentally the minute quantity of heat absorbed , in bending or twisting an elastic spring , arising from the diminution of the elastic force of metals with a rise of temperature .

