4 On the Determination of Constant .
[ Nov. 15 , nified , are appended to the text .
The author remarks that the first indication of since restored species , e.g. , of the as a large extinct Marsupial , was a portion of a tooth , and corresponding accessions of fossil remains may be expected to lead to a like reconstruction of the present animal .
He is indebted to E. P. Ramsay , Esq. , F.L.S. , for casts of the first found specimens of the teeth in question to which the transmitter had appended the name ; subsequently the author received , through the kindness of 0 .
H. Hartman , Esq. , of Toonromba , Queensland , a large portion of the tooth itself .
III .
" Evidence of a Large Extinct Monotreme ( Ramsayi , Ow .
) from the Wellington Breccia Cave , New South Wales .
' ' By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. Received November 3 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author gives a description of a fossil humerus from the breccia cave of Wellington Valley , which repeats the characters of that bone in the existing monotrematous genus Echidna more closely than those of the same bone in any other known kind of mammal .
The fossil , however , greatly exceeds in size that of the existing Australian species , Echidna hystrix , Cuv .
The existence of , at least , two other kinds lately discovered living in New Guinea has been made known in memoirs by Professor Gervais and Mr. E. P. Ramsay , E.L.S. ; these occupy , in respect of size , the interval between them and the Australian Ech .
, but the subject of the present paper makes known the largest Monotreme hitherto discovered .
Figures of the fossil in question , and of the corresponding bone of the smaller existing Australian kind , accompany the text .
The fossil formed part of the series of remains obtained from the cave above cited , and was with them submitted to the author , who proposes to indicate the present acquisition by the name Echidna Ramsayi .
IV .
" Correction to a paper 4 On the Determination of Verdet 's Constant , ' published in the ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1877 .
" By J. E. H. Gordon , M.S.T.E. Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received October 5 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In revising my " Treatise on Electricity " for the second edition , in July , 1883 , I noticed a discrepancy between the value of Verdet 's constant obtained by myself and that deduced from M. H. L883 .
] On Irregularities in Magnetic Inclination .
Becquerel 's comparative experiments ( see " Electricity , " first edition , vol. ii , p- 235 ) .
This led me to revise the calculations given in the " Phil. Trans. , " 1877 , and I see that in the final formula in that paper 2R has been used instead of ft. This makes the value of the constant there given double its true value , which is\#151 ; a , =r52381xl0-5 .
This correction removes the discrepancy between , my result and Becquerel 's .
Y. " Note on the Irregularities in Magnetic Inclination on the West Coast of Scotland .
" By T. E. Thorpe , F.R.S. , and A. W. Rucker , M.A. Received October 20 , 1883 .
In the Report of the results of the Magnetic Survey of Scotland , undertaken at the request of the British Association by the late Mr. Welsh during the years 1857 and 1858 , it is stated by Professor Balfour Stewart ( by whom the observations were reduced and the report drawn up ) that the values of all the elements as determined in and adjacent to the Island of Mull were apparently largely affected by local attraction , and from a comparison of the various observations Professor Stewart was led to place the centre of the disturbance a little to the south of the Mull stations , and at a considerable depth below the surface .
The effect of this local attraction was most apparent in the determination of the dip , which at Tobermory was upwards of 57 ' , and at Glenmorven , on the other side of the Sound , was 14 ' in excess of the probable normal value , that is , the value unaffected by local disturbance and dependent merely on geographical position , as deduced by combining together all the other observations for Scotland , in the manner adopted by Sir Edward Sabine in discussing the observations of the previous Survey of 1836 .
Dr. Stewart 's localisation of the centre of disturbance was based partly on a consideration of the abnormal values exhibited by the observations made at the two stations on the Sound of Mull , and partly on certain irregularities manifested by the determinations taken on Islay and in Sky .
So far as the Mull observations themselves were concerned , the clue as to the exact locality of the area of disturbance was of the very slenderest .
Mr. Welsh appears to have made only a single observation of the dip at Tobermory ; and although observations were made with two needles at Glenmorven , the divergence between the resultant values happens to be greater than is exhibited by any other pair of dip observations throughout the survey .
Nevertheless , as we shall show , we are able to confirm

