[ 1 ?
3 ] VIII .
On the Structure and Life-IIistory of Entyloma Ranunculi ( Bonorden ) .
By H. Marshall Ward , 31.A .
, F.L.S. , Fellow of Christ 's Cambridge , and .
Professor of Botany in the Indian Civil Engineering College ( .School ) , Cooper s Hill .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , F.R.S. , Director of the Royal Gardens , Few .
Received October 12 , \#151 ; Read November 25 , 1886 .
[ Plates 10-13 .
] The attention of mycologists has been long directed to the study of the Ustilaginem , not only on account of their morphological peculiarities , but even more especially because the economic questions arising from their relations to our crops , \amp ; c. , have assumed such proportions as to force this group of parasites far into the foreground .
Interesting and important as are the parasitic habits of the Ustilagineae , however , and much as they have been investigated , it has to be admitted that we know as yet very little about them .
Two or three of the most common forms , it is true , have been so often studied by different observers that they may be regarded as worked out sufficiently to allow of our regarding them as types ; but it needs no very extensive acquaintance with the group to satisfy ourselves that the best known forms are not the simplest , and that much still remains to be accomplished in this large group .
It is not only that the Ustilaginem are so minute , but they are so peculiarly modified , and so specialised as parasites , that the most careful observation is necessary in making out the numerous points in their structure ; in addition , observers still differ considerably as to the interpretation of some of the facts of structure which are established .
Taking the most recent systems * of classification , we may regard the Ustilaginese as comprising the following genera , Ustilago , Schizonella , and Entyloma , and so far shall be in accordance with all the modern authorities ; when we come to such genera as Geminella , Sphacelotheca , ( Cornu ) , and Graphiola ( Fischer ) and some others , the matter becomes more complicated , and special investigations are still needed to determine the limits of the genera and group .
Entyloma , however , is a well-established genus , t and now includes some fifteen or * E.g. , De Bart , 'Morpbol .
d. Pilze , ' p. 186 , and Winter , ' Rabenhorst 's Kryptogamen-Flora/ p. 80 .
t De Bart , ' Botan. Zeitung , ' 1874 , p. 101 .
Schroeter , in Cohn 's ' Beitrage Biol. Pflanz .
, ' vol. 2 , pp. 368 and 439 .
sixteen species .
They are parasitic in the mesophyll of the leaves of various plants , and are characterised by producing rounded resting-spores as intercalary swellings on the very fine , septate , intercellular mycelium ; these spores germinate like those of Tilletia .
In Tilletia , however , the resting-spores form dense powdery aggregates , which is not the case with the more isolated spores of Of the various species of this genus referred to above , three are described as occurring in the leaves of species of Ranunculus .
One of these\#151 ; - ranunculi\#151 ; appears to be extremely common in some places , and has a wide distribution ; its resting-spores have often been described , and it is regarded by all the authorities as a well-marked species .
It has , however , so far as I know , not been specially investigated in detail , and , in addition to the other facts contained in the following memoir , it is of interest to have observed the germination of the conidia for the first time ; the infection experiments are also new , and consequently important , and they establish beyond doubt the relations of the conidia to the Entyloma * I nowT proceed to the description of my own observations , the completion of which has been rendered possible by an outbreak of the disease which the fungus induces on a large patch of densely crowded plants of Ranunculus Ficaria during the spring and early summer of this year ; this patch of diseased plants was so favourably situated , and the fungus spread so rapidly and in such enormous numbers on it , that I was enabled to observe and record some fa\lt ; ?ts of considerable interest respecting the origin and spread of the epidemic due to the action of the parasite .
Moreover , material was to hand in abundance and in excellent condition , and the circumstances were so fortunate that it was possible to note day by day the symptoms of the disease , and the progress , climax , and decline of the epidemic .
I mention this expressly because it is not sufficiently recognised how necessary is the study of the diseases of plants in the field\#151 ; clinically , as it were\#151 ; as well as in the laboratory .
The patch of Ranunculus referred to above extended some distance along the course of a conveniently situated damp ditch : during February and March thousands of young fresh green leaves sprang up , and in April the ground was densely carpeted with them ; the leaves were so closely packed that the ditch appeared full of them .
The ditch itself runs nearly due north to south , and is only damp as a rule ; it becomes filled with water during heavy or continuous rain , however , and the water * With respect to these conidia , it appears that they have been described at various times as the spores of other species of Fungi , and that Winter , first suggested their connection with Entyloma .
Then Schroeter observed conidia in connection with Entyloma ( Schroeter , loc. pp. 369 and 438 .
) Winter ( ' Kryptogamen-Flora , ' p. 113 ) says:\#151 ; " Sporidienbildung auf der lebenden Nahrpflanze , " which conveys the impression that the resting-spores germinate in the leaf and bear " sporidia " on their promycelia .
The bodies here referred to are true conidia , however , as is clear from my observations , and are developed independently of the resting-spores .
Moreover , this is the first time the germination of the conidia of an Entyloma has been followed and described ( c/ .
De Bart , ' Morphol .
d. Pilze , ' p. 194 ) , thus placing their connection with the Entyloma beyond doubt , and explaining their nature as true conidia.\#151 ; May 5 , 1887 .
AND LIFE-HISTORY OF ENTYLOMA RANUNCULI .
rims off rather slowly to the south .
A fairly dense growth of hazel and other trees overshadows all , and in the summer but little sunlight reaches the plants in the ditch after noon : the morning sun nevertheless reaches the plants under and through the trees during the earlier months named .
One consequence of all this is that the leaves of the Ranunculus were very succulent , bright , and long-stalked , and , as already mentioned , appealed to fill up the hollow of the ditch .
Towards the middle of April the bright green glossy leaves of the Ranunculus plants in a certain part of the above patch were noticed to be slightly spotted with white flecks , which increased in size and number day after day until before the middle of May a long tract\#151 ; several yards\#151 ; of the thickly growing leaves were infected and thus spotted .
Before describing the phenomena more closely , and simply speaking of the white flecks as the chief obvious symptom of the diseased condition , I may call attention to one or two points which seem significant .
Ranunculus Ficaria is an extremely common plant all over the neighbourhood of Englefield Green , and nevertheless I have failed to find the white spots on leaves in many places near .
Nor is this all ; hundreds of plants on the eastern side of the garden ( the ditch runs along the western side ) have been examined , and no traces of the spots found , and even in the ditch referred to none of the plants in the northern two-thirds of its length were spotted as described .
The disease\#151 ; the epidemic , I will say\#151 ; commenced on a few plants in April , and spread southwards for several yards during April and May .
I account for this as follows :\#151 ; The easily spread spores ( conidia ) of the fungus causing the disease were transferred by wind , and especially by water flowing southwards in the ditch during the rains occurring at various periods in April : the wind , as I had occasion to notice , was chiefly from the north and east at these times , hence the immunity of the plants in the northern parts of the ditch and on the other side of the garden .
Even the fact of a south-west or west wind occasionally does not contradict the conclusion when all the circumstances are known , for a high bank and hed^e lie to the westward of the ditch , and the hazel trees mentioned above would screen other parts of the garden .
An extraordinarily severe outbreak of the white spots occurred over the patch during the period May 6th to 12th , and it was then I noticed particularly how the epidemic spread to the south , and not to the north ; the period referred to was remarkable for very warm steamy " mornings and very bright noons .
A storm broke over Englefield Green on Saturday , April 24th , and the ditch was flooded and overflowing for several hours , all the Ranunculus plants being bent downwards towards the south when the water had passed over and through them : that the flooding in question distributed the spores which caused the sudden and extensive outbreak on May 6th to 12th will hardly be questioned after what follows , for I shall show that it requires from a fortnight to three weeks to develope a white disease-spot in the leaf from a spore germinated on its epidermis .
I now pass on to a more detailed description of the white " disease-spots " on the leaves ( Plate 10 , fig. l ) .
On its first appearance the spot is pale and greenish , and not sharply marked off from the surrounding tissue , and it requires close watching to be sure when it first becomes visible to the unaided eye ; shortly afterwards , the central parts of the enlarging fleck are pure white , resembling powdered chalk , especially when the air is warm and still , and the conidia to be referred to have accumulated in large quantities .
As the white speck ages and enlarges centrifugally , it turns more ash-coloured or yellowish in the centre , and finally becomes brownish , or even dark brown , and the patch of tissue is dead .
These spots appear on both sides of the leaves , and are alike , except that the white stands out more sharply in contrast with the darker glossy green of the upper side of the leaf .
On a warm , still morning , it is possible to collect relatively large quantities of the white chalky powder ( conidia ) from the more active flecks , and it will be seen how important this must be in the reproduction and spread of the fungus causing the infection .
The white flecks are confined to the mesophyll of the leaf , and can be seen sharply bounded by the vascular bundles of the venation\#151 ; for instance , in the fork wdience two chief veins diverge\#151 ; whereas they fade imperceptibly into the green of the mesophyll .
The leaf is not thickened at the infected spots , but it is very noticeable , as the spot increases in age , that it becomes thinner and dries up or rots ; in the former case cracking and tearing away from the healthy tissue , and , in the latter , falling down as putrid shreds ( fig. l ) .
The difference depends on weather .
In both cases the bits may soon disappear , and the leaf look as if a piece had been nibbled out .
It will thus be seen that the diseased condition is confined to a given area ; the spots are local centres , and do not spread indefinitely over the leaf .
I have counted 57 on a leaf less than \\ inches broad and long , and many more can co-exist on that area .
In some cases spots run together as they age .
As I shall show later , each spot spreads from one centre only , i.e. , from a stoma through which a germinal tube from a spore has passed ; the stomata are on both sides of the leaf .
A curious , though by no means isolated , phenomenon is presented in the case of old leaves , which have shown the spots at a late stage of their life , and then turned yellow before the spots reach their matured condition : this is the existence of a vivid green ring around the spot , and is , without doubt , due to the mycelium of the fungus keeping the cells active after their neighbours are dead .
I have noticed the same fact in the case of other parasitic fungi .
Sections through a young white spot show that a very delicate , copiously branched , mycelium exists between the cells of the mesophyll , both in the palissade and spongy tissue ( figs. 7\#151 ; 14 ) .
Closer examination shows that the mycelium is segmented at rather long intervals , but the septa are very difficult to observe without reagents , owing to their thinness and that of the outer walls , and to the dense , finely granular AND LIFE-HISTORY OF ENTYLOMA RANUNCULI .
protoplasm in the hyphae .
If the sections are made through somewhat more advanced spots , the following additional peculiarities are noticeable ( fig. 11 ) .
The mycelium has increased , and now sends branches into the lacunae beneath the stomata .
These branches fill up the interspace , and at length project through the orifices of the stomata in dense tufts or pencils ( figs. 2 , 6 , and 11 ) .
The hyphae are also seen to be mingled with numerous small spherical bodies\#151 ; the resting-spores of the fungus .
Subsequently the number of these spores increases enormously , until , in old spots , every nook and cranny between the cells is packed with them .
Meanwhile , the pencils of hyphae projecting to the exterior have produced innumerable colourless conidia from their free ends ( figs. 3 , 4 , 5 , 12 , 13 ) .
It is these tufts and conidia which give the white powdery appearance to the spots .
Having thus given a general account of the fungus , I may proceed to describe further details as to the intercellular mycelium .
It is not difficult to observe that at the margins of the spots ( in the mesophyll tissue ) the tips of the hyphae are extending radially in all directions , branching as they do so , and forming septa behind the apices .
Where the hyphae pass along the wall of a cell , they frequently form flattened short branehlets or tufts , closely appressed to the outside of the wall of the cell ( fig. 7 ) , i.e. , on the side bounding the lacunae .
These flattened tufts of branchlets are strikingly suggestive of haustoria , though they do not obviously pierce the wall .
The hyphae appear never to be intracellular .
In some cases , with the aid of reagents , I have convinced myself that the attachment of these haustorium-like branchlets to the cell-wall is very close , and cannot help suspecting that either fine threads of protoplasm pass out to them from the sac of protoplasm inside , or that they send such fine threads through the cellulose ; it has so far been impossible to place this beyond doubt , however .
Although the hyphae do not penetrate into the cavity of the cell , they can pass in the primary cell-wall ( the middle lamella ) , and so force their way between two contiguous cells .
Good sections show this distinctly , though , owing to the delicacy of the hyphae , they are not easy to obtain .
Moreover , as will appear clearer shortly , the tips of the hyphae can make their way to the exterior between contiguous cells of the epidermis ( figs , 11 and 14 ) .
Following those hyphae the tips of which protrude through the stomata , their ends are found to give rise to delicate colourless conidia by abstriction .
Taking a given hypha , it grows out into the damp air or water , and its tip swells up slightly into an ovoid body which may lengthen considerably or not before it is separated off as a very delicate colourless conidium , with an extremely thin cell-wall and finely granular and vacuolated protoplasmic contents , in which minute brilliant oil-like drops are suspended .
In some eases , apparently in drier warm weather , the protruding hyphae are relatively short , and the conidia ovoid or slightly reniform ( fig. 3 ) ; in other cases , apparently in wet weather , and certainly in water ( fig. 2 ) , the hyphae may protrude twice as far before the conidia are abstricted , and the latter are then longer , more curved , and relatively thinner ( fig. 5 ) .
Under such circumstances a conidium maybe seen to germinate before it falls off from the liypha ; or the hyphse may go on growing longer and longer for many hours , to end at last , however , by forming long conidia at the extremity , the intermediate part dying off ( fig. 2 , a).Such abnormally long conidial segments are easily obtained by allowing the tufts to grow out from the stomata of cut-off pieces of epidermis suspended in water ; the tufts thus produced are curiously suggestive of the so-called Ramularia , Cer \amp ; c. , of authors .
The tufts of conidia are like Glceosporium Ficarice ( Berk ) .
The normal conidia are club-shaped or long ovoid bodies , slightly curved , and more pointed at the attached end .
They were to be obtained in any quantity , on the leaves in the ditch referred to above , in May , and I was able to obtain pure sowings of them with ease , by removing them lightly with a fine camel-hair pencil , and thus not only to observe all stages of germination , but also to infect clean plants with certainty .
Sown in water , in hanging drops kept over damp cells , the conidia germinate readily under favourable conditions .
I have noticed that in many cases a sowing of two or three conidia in a drop remained unaltered for several days , the conidia finally dying off , or one or two germinating at last ; whereas , in drops containing some dozens of the conidia , the germination sometimes followed more rapidly and certainly .
At first I put the phenomenon down as probably due to temperature ; further experience leads me to doubt the accuracy of that conclusion .
Another point I am convinced of : conidia sown in a drop of water on a leaf of the living plant germinate more readily than those in a similar drop on glass .
Nevertheless , it has been sufficiently easy to get the conidia to germinate in rain water , and I have seen hundreds , and perhaps thousands , of them in all stages of germination .
To describe a concrete case .
The conidium { a , fig. 23 ) was sown in the morning about 8 o'clock , and remained almost unaltered for 24 hours ; next day , at 2 p.m.\#151 ; i.e. , 30 hours after sowing\#151 ; it had commenced to germinate ( 6 ) , throwing out a delicate tube at either end ; at about 10 p.m. ( the same night ) the stage was reached , the germinal tube at the one end had grown to a short length only , and then its end had swollen up into a secondary conidium , taking the protoplasm from the rest .
It wall be noticed that the thin tail-like germinal tube at the other end of the conidium became empty , and that three septa appeared\#151 ; one cutting off* this empty tail-like tube , another dividing the main body of the conidium , and the third cutting off the successful germinal tube ( as we may term it ) from the now empty conidium .
I mention these facts because it will be seen that these .septa\#151 ; usually three in number \#151 ; constantly recur , and the tail-like unsuccessful appendage seems to be always formed and emptied as described .
At 9 a.m. on the third day\#151 ; i.e. , 49 hours after sowing\#151 ; the secondary conidium ( fig. 23 , d ) had commenced to put forth a short lateral hypha , which by 2 p.m. ( e ) had grown out as a thin , feebly-coiled , and very delicate hypha , while a second similar hypha was forming above .
These thin hyphse grew a little longer , and then stopped ( f ) .
AND LIFE-HISTORY OF ENTYLOMA RANUNCULI .
In fig. 24 are shown other conidia germinating in the same way , under the same conditions ; the slight variations in detail do not affect the general conformity to the above type .
It frequently happens that two conidia " copulate " after they have formed the secondary conidia , or during the development of the latter ( fig. 25 ) .
This often occurs when the conidia are numerous , but by no means always ; the aftereffects of such copulations , if they exist , do not manifest themselves clearly in the further fate of the secondary conidia ; they appear to behave exactly as if no copulation had occurred .
There is a small point of some interest to be noticed here .
It has already been stated that the cellulose wall of the conidium is exceedingly delicate ; it results thence that when the conidium is deprived of its protoplasmic contents the remaining empty shell is barely visible , and easily overlooked , and the same is true of empty portions of hyphse .
It often happens , therefore , that such specimens as those in fig. 24 ( nand r ) are not at first sight quite intelligible , until more careful search results in the discovery that the empty conidia , \amp ; c. , are still attached ; in other cases , however , the remains of the conidia become destroyed ( e.g. , by bacteria , \amp ; c. ) , and the delicate hyphse containing the protoplasm persist alone .
I have excellent reasons for believing that such hyphse are not necessarily dead , and that the presence of certain fine hyphse on the leaves is to be explained as above .
First , however , it will be advisable to see what occurs when the conidia are germinating in a drop of water on the leaf of the living Ranunculus , and where the increased supply of oxygen may be one of several causes for the fact stated above\#151 ; that the conidia germinate more rapidly .
In figs. 26 and 27 are shown several specimens of germinating conidia , which had been sown in drops of dew on the living leaf , the plant being kept in a cool greenhouse under a glass bell-jar .
It is at once noticeable that several of the conidia have proceeded at once to the development of the germinal hyphse without the preliminary formation of the secondary conidia ; the germinal tubes are thicker and stronger than is the case with sowings in pure water on glass .
Here and there a case occurs ( fig. 27 ) where the secondary conidium is interpolated , as it were , but this at once proceeds to develope the germinal mycelium .
Of course , the specimens figured are such as have not sent their hyphse through a stoma ; very many of them would do so about the second or third day after sowing , as shown in figs. 29 and 31 .
It is now necessary to return to the mycelium in the intercellular spaces of the mesophyll of the leaf .
It is observed in all cases where the white spots are fairly advanced , and wherever the conidia are developed in abundance on the exterior , that numerous spherical resting-spores exist among the closely weaved branching hyphse .
Thin sections and careful examination show further that these resting-spores are formed in the course of the hyphse themselves as local dilations , or , more rarely perhaps , at the ends of branches which may be very short ( figs. 9 , 10 , 17 ) .
It is possible to macerate or tease out specimens showing all the chief stages of develop- meant .
The resting-spore , at first simply a thin-walled dilation of the hypha , becomes separated by a septum , and its wall thickens gradually , bright granules and fat-like drops accumulating in the granular protoplasm .
When quite mature , the protoplasmic contents assume a yellowish cast , but the thickened wall is only slightly yellow or colourless , perfectly smooth , and devoid of markings or mucilage , simply showing a slight tendency to stratification .
It is not an uncommon event to meet with specimens like fig. 9 , where one or two little branchlets arise close to the young spore and even appear closely applied to it ( fig. 17 ) ; whether these are to be looked upon as representing degraded pollinodial branches , or whether they are merely of the nature of the haustorium-like branchlets referred to before , I cannot decide ; it is quite certain that no fertilising tube is formed\#151 ; the resting-spore arises purely asexually .
The ripe spore exhibits a paler translucent spot in the centre , shining through the fatty and finely granular contents ; it is perfectly easy to convince one 's self of the attachment of the spore to the hypha in macerated specimens ( figs. 10 , 14 , 19 ) .
It is an obvious question : On what does the proof that the resting-spores and the conidia belong to the same fungus rest ?
The reply is simple and conclusive , though it has been by no means easy to obtain it .
Putting aside the universal occurrence of the resting-spores in the white spots ( fig. 1 ) as soon as they are well developed , and passing over the suggestive similarities to the " sporidia " of other Ustilaginese , shown in the germination of the eonidia ( fig. 25 ) , there are two series of observations which , together with these , place the connection between the spores beyond doubt .
In the first place the examination of very large numbers of careful sections has resulted in the obtaining of preparations like figs. 12-14 , in which , although the anatomical continuity between a conidium and a resting-spore is not absolute , there can be no doubt as to the existence of that continuity .
In fig. 14 , the clearest case , the branch of the mycelium , passing up to the exterior , would end in a conidiophore , and it is attached to a branch bearing a resting-spore ; and an examination of the other figure leads to the same conclusion : the difficulty of laying bare the hypha along its whole course is , of course , immense .
The conclusion of the proof of continuity , however , is fully established by the production of the resting-spores from the conidia sown on the leaf .
I have already mentioned that when the white spots are at their best they are covered with the numerous conidia as with an impalpable chalky powder ; the resting-spores do not come to the outside , and thus it is perfectly feasible , and even very easy , to obtain pure sowings of the conidia by lightly passing a camel-hair pencil over the spots on an undamaged leaf .
I have paid a great deal of attention to this matter of pure sowings and pure culture , and most of the clean sowings on glass ( e.g. , fig. 23 ) were obtained in this way : a clean , new camel-hair pencil was drawn lightly over a vigorous white spot , and a leaf infected in the manner described below , and then a glass slide was touched with the pencil , which still retained conidia ; the purity of the last sowing was evidence of the purity of the infective sowing .
AND LIFE-HISTORY OF ENTYLOMA RANUNCULI .
The method of infection is simple .
The camel-hair pencil ( or a clean needle ) , charged with conidia , is lightly placed for a moment in a drop of dew , or of distilled water , on a leaf of Ranunculus Ficaria .
The sowing is then kept moist , either by means of a bell-jar placed over the plant , or by means of a damp-cell kept over the drop containing the sowing .
Precautions were taken to obtain the experimental plants from a distance , and from localities where no white spots were found on the leaves ; moreover , I kept uninfected plants from the same neighbourhood in the same closed greenhouse , during the progress of the observations , as control plants .
In all but one or two cases the infections succeeded perfectly , and in most cases the infective capacity ( if I may so term it ) of the conidia was most strikingly displayed .
It was perfectly easy to obtain such preparations as those figured at figs. 29 and 31 by stripping off the epidermis at the spot where the sowing had been made a few ( 12-24 ) hours previously ; and similar preparations were obtainable any rainy day from the wet leaves in the ditch referred to above , especially when the leaf was first laid on water for a few hours , As the figures show , the conidia germinate normally , and at once proceed to push their germinal hyphse through the wide orifices of the stomata ; very often the germinal hypha makes coils , and it is usually at least sinuous .
The unsuccessful tail-like hypha is developed at the opposite end of the conidium , as before ; but the formation of the interpolated conidium is very rare\#151 ; the germinal tube at once enters the stoma nearest it .
Cf .
figs. 23-27 and figs. 29 and 31 .
When examining recently infected leaves , or young leaves from the damp ditch which were exposed to all the conditions necessary for infection , I often observed delicate little stretches of hyphse lying on the cuticle , and looking like bits of a filamentous Schizomycete : two such bits are shown in fig. 29 .
Moreover , it was a by no means uncommon occurrence to see similar filaments on the inside of a stoma closely applied to the walls of the guard-cells , and evidently making their way inwards .
It seems not improbable that these isolated filaments are really pieces of the germinal tubes , which have been formed at some distance from the stomata , and have become detached by the decay of the exhausted portions of hyphse or spores behind them .
I have already shown that the protoplasm passes along into the ends of the delicate germinal tubes , leaving the empty and exhausted portions behind to die off ( cf. fig. 24 ) , and it is certainly not impossible that by this means these filaments can creep forward , so to speak , to distances greater than the tube full of protoplasm can reach\#151 ; in fact , we may say the germinal tube creeps along by building its own ladder behind it .
Be this as it may , the leaves are easily infected by means of the conidia , and in nearly every case a pallid greenish-white spot was found on the infected leaf in from 13 to 19 days from the sowing : moreover , the spot was always confined to the area on which the sowing was made .
The following list of infections will serve to illustrate this .
In each case three leaves were infected\#151 ; one leaf on each plant\#151 ; and controlled as described .
The date of sowing the conidia on the leaf is given in the second column , and the date on which the pallid spot was clearly visible in the third column : it should be noted that some difficulty occurs in deciding exactly when the pallid spot is visible , a difficulty which depends partly on the observer and partly on the hue of the leaf .
The yellow spot of a Uredinous fungus is much easier to detect than these pallid greenish-white spots in their younger stages .
Plant .
Date of sowing conidia .
Date on which the spot appeared .
Number of days occupied in developing spot .
A May 13 ... .
June 1 ... .
days .
19 B May 13 .
May 31 ... .
18 C May 13 .
June 1 19 D May 16 .
June 2 . .
17 E May 16 ... Failed F May 16 .
Failed Gr May 24 ... June 7 . .
14 H May *24 ... June 7 ... .
14 I May 24 ... .
Failed K June 2 . .
June 21 ... 19 L June 2 . .
June 19 ... 17 M June 2 ... .
June 20 ... 18 Hence the periods given in the Table are only approximate\#151 ; indeed , they could not be otherwise so long as we are ignorant of the exact period occupied by the conidium in germinating , and by the fungus in making its progress through the tissues .
And now arises the question\#151 ; can we throw any light on the problem as to the relative ease with which a parasitic mycelium invades its host ?
So far as it goes , the following evidence seems of some value .
I found that those plants of Ranunculus Ficariawhich grew in the shaded damp ditch were infected more easily than plants growing in open drier situations .
The differences between these two kinds of plants , so far as the leaves are concerned , are chiefly as follows : \#151 ; The more shaded plants have much larger leaves with much longer petioles : the laminae are undoubtedly softer in texture , and brighter green in colour , the smaller tougher leaves of the plants in the open being of a dark and glossy green , especially above .
These differences correspond to differences in minute structure : the shaded leaves have shorter , looser , palissade cells , and more intercellular spaces between them and in the large loose spongy parenchyma .
Moreover , the stomata on the upper surface appear to be more numerous : on the lower surface the stomata seem to be larger , but I cannot say they are more numerous .
The stomata have wider openings in the damp shaded plants , and the cell walls of all the parts are thinner and more watery ; of course it may be assumed that there is more aqueous vapour in the intercellular spaces , Taking all these facts into consideration , I see no difficulty in explaining the differences in the times occupied in infections ; and they also throw AND LIFE-HISTORY OF ENTYLOMA RANUNCULI .
light on the vexed question which has arisen around the unfortunate word " predisposition .
" The plants in the ditch were certainly more apt to be diseased than others in the open , because the disease , once established , could spread like an epidemic under the conditions existing .
I have other facts in other connections which bear out this , and I hope some time to be able to devote special and continuous attention to this question .
I do not propose to enlarge upon the subject of the resting-spores .
After some months in the dormant condition they put forth promycelial tubes , from which sporidia are developed which seem to behave like the conidia described ; the type of germination is like that of Tilletia .
Description of the Figures .
PLATE 10 .
Fig. 1 .
A leaf of Ranunculus Ficariawith the white disease-spots containing the parasite .
Two of the white spots are turning ashen grey in the centre , and a still older spot at the margin had turned brown , and the rotted tissues then fell away .
The chalky appearance of the younger spots is due to the conidia .
There are spots on both sides of the leaf .
Fig. 2 .
A stoma with the hyphae of the protruding\#151 ; from a leaf laid 12 hours in water .
To the right is one of the hyphae about to form a conidium at the apex .
The hyphae are here very long , since they grow into the water .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 3 .
Similar pencil of hyphae protruding from a stoma , and bearing conidia .
The preparation is taken fresh from a leaf growing in not very damp air , hence the shorter byphae and conidia .
( Zetss , E. ) Fig. 4 .
Similar preparation\#151 ; one of the conidiophores slightly branched .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 5 .
Similar preparation from leaf in damp ditch , and taken in wet weather , showing the elongated form of the hyphae and conidia .
( Zeiss , J. ) Fig. 6 .
Stoma with protruding conidiophores from the margin of a young spore .
The fungus is still young .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 7 .
A cell from the spongy mesophyll of Ranunculus , with copiously branched hyphae of Entyloma ranunculi closely applied to its walls .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 8 .
Cells surrounding an intercellular space , with the mycelium of the Entyloma on and between the cells .
( Zeiss , D. ) Fig. 9 .
Portion of epidermis stripped off and examined from inside , showing branched mycelium of the Entylomarunning between the underlying mesophyll cells ( these are omitted for simplicity ) .
Nuclei and plastidia are seen in the outlined epidermis cells .
Pesting-spores in various stages of development are being formed by the mycelium ; most of these are intercalary , one is at the end of a short branchlet .
Haustorium-like protuberances are frequently developed and some branches anastomose .
( Zeiss , J. ) PLATE 11 .
Fig. 10 .
Similar preparation , the mycelium much branched .
( Zeiss , J. ) Fig. 11 .
Transverse section of a leaf of R. Ficaria , through a well-developed and active disease spot .
The intercellular spaces are blocked up with mycelium and resting-spores ; in the lacunae below the orifices of the stomata the mycelium puts forth dense pencils of conidiophores .
In the figure the stoma on the upper surface is cut longitudinally , that on the lower surface transversely and nearer one end .
Conidiophores are also seen forcing their way between the epidermis cells of the upper side .
The mycelium is all intercellular ; wherever it appears otherwise , close examination shows that it is applied to the exterior of the thin walls .
( Zeiss , D. ) Fig. 12 .
Portion of extremely thin section through a disease spot , macerated and teased out .
The two contiguous cells of the epidermis between which the hyphse forced their way to the exterior have become separated .
Two resting-spores among the hyphse below .
( Zeiss , J. ) Fig. 13 .
Similarly teased preparation .
The hyphse are older and show the septa more clearly .
( Zeiss , J. ) Fig. 14 .
Portion of very thin section as before , hardened and examined in glycerine .
It shows very clearly the passage out of the conidiophore in the middle lamella of two contiguous epidermis cells .
The vertical branch to the right appears to have passed out similarly , but was cut ; it is attached below to a branch bearing a resting-spore .
( Zeiss , J. ) Fig. 15 .
Lacuna between palissade cells from similar preparation ; it is filled with resting-spores .
( Zeiss , J. ) PLATE 12 .
Figs. 16-18 .
Mycelium with resting-spores teased out and isolated from macerated specimens .
( Zeiss , D. ) Figs. 19 and 20 .
Resting-spores in various stages approaching maturity .
( Zeiss , J. ) AND LIFE-HISTORY OF ENTYLOMA RANUNCULI .
Fig. 21 .
Mature resting-spore .
The contents are more finely granular and translucent ; a portion of its mycelium is still attached .
( Zeiss , J. ) Fig. 22 .
A resting-spore commencing to germinate .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 23 .
Germination of the conidium of Entyloma ranunculi .
After lying twenty-four hours in water it swelled up slightly and presented the appearance drawn at a ; six hours later , i.e. at two P.M. , it had commenced to germinate ( b ) ; c , the same conidium at ten p.m. ; d , at nine a.m. next day ; the secondary conidium is now commencing to germinate .
At two p.m. the stage e was reached , and soon afterwards ( / ) the growth had ceased , the two little germinal tubes having taken all the protoplasm .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 24 .
Conidia germinating in water on glass as before .
The empty conidia and other parts decay and disappear , and the still living portions are thus completely isolated .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 25 .
Two germinating conidia which have copulated .
This is a very common event where they lie close together .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 26 .
Conidia germinating in drops of water on .
the leaf .
The secondary conidia are not formed , as a rule , and the germinating hyphae are stronger and branch more .
( Zeiss , E. ) PLATE 13 .
Fig. 27 .
Similar preparation .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 28 .
Conidia attached to branched conidiophore ( below ) , which had been allowed to grow out in water ; and a germinating conidium ; both more highly magnified .
( Zeiss , J. ) Fig. 29 .
Portion of epidermis of R. Ficariawith conidia of E. ranunculi germinating on it .
Germinal hyphae are entering the orifices of the stomata ; two pieces of germinal hyphae ( ?
) are lying on the epidermis cells .
Inside the latter are nuclei and plastidia .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 30 .
Portion of mycelium allowed to grow out into water ; the protoplasm aggregates in certain cells and branches , and the septa are very distinct in the empty branches .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 31 .
Stoma with two germinal hyphae entering its orifice ; seen from within .
The spores are visible through the epidermis .
( Zeiss , E. ) Fig. 32 .
Stoma seen from within .
On its walls are thin branched hyphae of unknown origin , but which may possibly be isolated pieces of germinal tube .
( Zeiss , E. ) M DCCCLXXX VII .
\#151 ; B. n Marshall Phil. Trans.mi .
BPlate 10 THE CAMBRIDGE SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT COMPANl H. Ma rs hal Phil Trans.m73.Pla.te 11 .
THE CAMBRIDGE SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT THE CAMBRIDGE SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT'COMPANY / / .
Ma rs hal .
Phil Trans1887 B. 13 THE CAMBRIDGE SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT COMPANY .

