270 Lord Kelvin .
On the [ Feb. 13 free path of their molecules .
When pressure is lowered these gases appear to conduct less well than the diatomic gases ; and it may be that their molecular constitution is less alfected , if affected at all , by diminution of pressure .
The behaviour of mixtures of argon and helium at low pressures is somewhat inscrutable .
Why should argon convey current almost to the exclusion of helium , if , indeed , visibility of its spectrum be taken as an indication of conductivity r1 In this respect argon rather resembles the diatomic gases .
It may be objected that , in making such observations , one consideration has been neglected .
It is the nature of the electrodes .
This may indeed play a not unimportant part in the phenomena .
It is unquestionable that hydrogen and helium are both absorbed by platinum , and it would appear that nitrogen , too , can be made to combine , for it is removed from a vacuum tube containing it , if the platinum is " splashed " on to the walls .
But the experiments on mixtures of gaSes were performed in vacuum tubes without electrodes , and the influence of the electrodes comes in only with experiments on gases at atmospheric pressure , and in those in which pressure was reduced .
Their pressure may , however , conduce to some kind of polarising influence , and the conclusions , such as they are , may be vitiated by neglecting this factor .
\#166 ; We trust that these somewhat rash speculations will be forgiven ; the subject is a difficult one , and we have carried out the experiments more with the view of obtaining practical help in recognising the purity of argon and helium than of carrying out a research on the relative conductivities of gases .
There is evidently a wide field for research , and we shall be glad if this description of our methods of manipulation and of the somewhat meagre results which we have obtained may indnce others , better qualified than we , to make similar investigations .
II .
''On the Generation of Longitudinal Waves in Ether .
" By Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. Received February 10 , 181)6 .
In a short note published in last week 's * Nature , ' of which a copy is appended , I suggested an arrangement of four insulated and electrified spherical conductors with their centres in one line , giving rise to ethereal waves in the surrounding atmosphere , of which the disturbance in the line of centres is essentially longitudinal .
But at any finite distance from this line there must also be laminar or dis-tortional waves of the kind expressed in Maxwell 's equations .
The object of my present communication is to show an arrangement by which a large space of air is traversed by pressural disturbance , or by waves essentially longitudinal , or by condensational-rarefaetional Let AA be a plane circular metal plate insulated within a metal case CCC'C ' , as indicated in the drawing .
Let D be a discharger which can be pushed in so as to make contact with A. Let A be charged to begin with , positively for instance as indicated by the letters PP pp ; showing negative electricity induced by it .
Let now the discharger be pushed in till a spark pisses .
The result , as regards the space between A A and the roof ltR over it , will be either an instantaneous transmission of commencement of diminution of electrostatic force , or a set of electric waves of almost purely longitudinal displacement , according as ether is incompressible or compressible .
Hence , if the theory of longitudinal waves , suggested by Rontgen as the explanation of his discovery ( for the consideration of which he lias given strong reasons ) , be true , it would seem probable that a sensitive photographic plate in the space between A A and RR should he acted on , as sensitive plates are , by Rontgen rays .
Either a Wimshurst electrical machine or an induction-coil , adapted to keep incessantly charging AA with great rapidity so as to cause an exceedingly rapid succession of sparks between D and A , might give a practical result .
In trying for it , the light of the sparks at D must be carefully screened to prevent general illumination of the interior of the case and ordinary photographic action on the sensitive plate .
The arrangement may be varied by making the roof of sheet aluminium , perhaps about a millimetre thick , and placing the sensitive photographic plate , or phosphorescent substance , on the outside of this roof , or in any convenient position above it .
When a photographic plate is used there must of course , be an outer cover of metal or of wood , to shut out all ordinary light from above .
This arrangement will allow the spark gap at D to be made wider and wider , until in preference the sparks pass between AA and the aluminium roof above it .
The transparency of the aluminium for Rontgen light will allow the photographic plate to be marked , if enough of this kind of light is produced in the space between the roof and AA , whether with or without sparks .
The newr photography has hitherto , so far as generally known , been performed only by light obtained from electric action in vacuum ; but 1896 .
] Generation of Longitudinal 271 vibrations ; with but a very small proportion , practically evanescent , of laminar waves .
272 Lord Kelvin .
On [ Feb. 13 that vacuum is not essential for the generation of the Bbntgen light might seem to be demonstrated by an experiment by Lord Blythswood , wh ch he described at a meeting of the Glasgow Philosophical Society last Wednesday ( February 5 ) .
As a result he exhibited a glass photographic dry plate with splendidly clear marking which had been produced on it when placed inside its dark slide , wrapped round many times in black velvet cloth , and held in front of the space between the main electrodes of his powerful Wimshurst electrical machine , but not in the direct line of the discharge .
He also exhibited photographic results obtained from the same arrangement with only the difference that , the dark slide , wrapped in black velvet , was held in the direct line of the discharge .
In this case the photographic result was due , perhaps wholly , and certainly in part , to electric sparks or brushes inside the enclosing box , -which was , as usual , made of \#166 ; mahogany with metal hinges and interior metal mountings .
It is not improbable that the results of the first experiments described by Lord Blythswood may also be wholly due to sparking within the wooden case .
I have suggested to him to repeat his experiments with a thoroughly well closed aluminium box , instead of the ordinary photographic dark slide which he used , and without any black cloth wrapped round outside .
The complete metallic enclosure will be a perfect guarantee against any sparks or brushes inside .
If the arrangement which I now suggest , with no sparks or brushes between AA and the roof , gives a satisfactory photographic result , or if it shows a visible glow on phosphorescent material placed anywhere in the space between AA and the roof above it , or above the aluminium roof , it would prove the truth of Bontgen 's hypothesis .
But failure to obtain any such results would not disprove this hypothesis .
The electric action , even with the place of the spark so close to the field of the action sought for as it is at D , in the suggested arrangement , may not be sudden enough or violent enough to produce enough of longitudinal waves , or of condensational-rarefactional vibrations , to act sensibly on a photographic plate , or to produce a visible glow on a phosphorescent substance .
( Extract from * Nature , ' referred to above .
) " Velocity of Propagation of Electrostatic Force .
" Hr .
Bottomley 's note published in 'Nature , ' of January 23 , quotes an extract from my Baltimore Lectures of October , 1884 , in which this subject is spoken of , with an illustration consisting of two metal spheres at a great distance asunder , having periodically varying opposite electrifications maintained in them by a wire connecting them through on alternate current dynamo .
* ' For au illustration absolutely freed from connecting wire and all 1896.1 Generation of Longitudinal Waves in Ether .
273 complications , consider four metal spheres , A , B , d , with their centres all in one straight linetheir relative magnitudes and positions being such as shown in the accompanying diagram .
Let each of the four be initially electrified , A and c positively , B and negatively .
Let the charges on c and dbe so strong that a spark is only just prevented from passing between them by the influence of B and A. Let A be gradually brought nearer to B till a spark passes between them .
Will the consequent spark between c and d take place at the same instant or a little later P It is not easy to see how this question could be answered experimentally ; but remembering the wonderful ingenuity shown by Hertz in finding how to answer questions related to it , we need not , perhaps , despair to see it also answered by experiment .
" The elastic solid theory restricted to the supposition of incompressibility ( which is expressed by Maxwell 's formulas ) makes the difference of times between the two sparks infinitely small .
* The unrestricted elastic solid theory gives for the difference of times the amount calculated according to the velocity of the condensational-rarefactional wave .
44 But I feel that it is an abuse of words to speak of the 1 elastic solid theory of electricity and magnetism 9 when no one hitherto has shown how to find in an elastic solid anything analogous to the attraction between rubbed sealing-wax and a little fragment , of paper ; or between a loadstone or steel magnet and a piece of iron ; or between two wires conveying electric currents .
Elastic solid , however , we must have , or a definite mechanical analogue of it , for the undulatory theory of light and of magnetic waves and of electric waves .
And consideration of the definite knowledge we have of the properties of a real elastic solid , which we have learned from observation and experiment , aided by mathematics , is exceedingly valuable in suggesting and guiding ideas towards a general theory which shall include light ( Old and New ) , old and new knowledge of electricity , and the whole of electro-magnetism .
44 Kelvin .
"

