1887 .
] Mr. G. S. Johnson .
On VIII .
" On Kreatinins .
I. On the Kreatinin of Urine , as distinguished from that obtained from Flesh-kreatin .
II .
On the Kreatiuins derived from the Dehydration of Urinary Kreatin .
" By George Stillingfleet Johnson , M.R.C.S. , F.C.S. , F.I.C. Communicated by George JOHNSON , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 5 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) Part I. This investigation was suggested by a careful study of the reducing action of normal human urine upon picric acid in presence of potash at the boiling temperature .
The picric acid method for the quantitative estimation of sugar in urine was introduced by Dr. George Johnson in 1883 .
Whilst assisting him in working out the details of the process , the author 's attention was drawn to the small amount of reduction exerted by all specimens of normal human urine .
The average picric reduction observed was equal to that which would be effected by a solution of glucose containing 0'6 grain to 1 fluid ounce .
The reduction of cupric oxide in boiling alkaline solution was always somewhat greater , averaging 07 grain per 1 fluid ounce .
Although many physiological chemists express the opinion that normal human urine contains always a little sugar , to which this reducing action is to be attributed , the author 's researches have led him to an opposite conclusion .
The reducing agent of normal urine differs from glucose in producing some reduction of picric acid in presence of potassium hydrate at the ordinary temperature ( vide Dr. R. Kirk , ' Lancet , ' June 16 , 1883 ) .
The reducing agent of normal urine cannot be made to undergo the alcoholic fermentation in presence of yeast .
Nevertheless , Dr. Pavy ( ' Med. Chir .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 63 , p. 222 ) attributes one-fourth of the reducing action of normal urine upon cupric oxide to uric acid , and the remaining three-fourths to " the small amount of sugar naturally present in urine .
" Briicke is also of opinion that normal human urine contains a small quantity of sugar .
Uric acid and kreatinin together are credited by Prof. E. Salkowski ( ' Centralblatt fur die Medicinischen Wissenschaften , ' March , lb86 ) with from one-sixth to one-fifth of the total reducing action of normal urine , the remainder being due to ''other substances , and very probably to compounds of glycuronic acid ( Glykuronsaureverbind-ungen ) , " Mr. G. S. Johnson .
[ June 16 , The author found that about three-fourths of the total reducing action of normal urine is destroyed by prolonged boiling with potassium hydrate , the remaining one-fourth being due to the survival of the uric acid , thus confirming Dr. Pavy 's observation that one-fourth of the normal reducing action is due to uric acid .
On attempting to isolate the normal reducing agents by precipitants , it was found that mercuric chloride gradually effected complete precipitation of the reducing agent when added in sufficient excess to the unconcentrated urine .
Complete precipitation can be effected in forty-eight hours if one-twentieth of its volume of a cold saturated solution of sodic acetate be first added to the fresh urine , then one-fourth of its volume of a cold saturated solution of mercuric chloride .
The precipitate , which forms immediately , should be separated by filtration , as it contains no reducing agent except uric acid , which is probably present in it as mercuric urate ; but the filtrate from the first amorphous precipitate begins to deposit the mercury salt of the reducing base in about half an hour .
This deposit appears granular and crystalline , but under the microscope is found to consist of minute spherical masses .
The weight of the dry spherical precipitate is always greater than that of the amorphous one weighed in the same condition .
The desiccation must be conducted over sulphuric acid at the ordinary temperature , since the compound is decomposed at 100 ' 0 . .
in presence of water .
The filtrate from this granular ( spherical ) mercury salt is devoid of reducing action upon cupric oxide and picric acid .
The spherical mercury salt of the reducing base ( for the basic nature of the normal reducing agent is strongly indicated by the above results ) is easily soluble in hydrochloric acid , but insoluble in acetic acid .
Moistened with solution of potassium hydrate , the compound gradually blackens from reduction of mercury at the ordinary temperature , and much compound ammonia is evolved .
Suspended in cold water and treated with hydrogen sulphide , the compound is decomposed , mercuric sulphide remaining undissolved , whilst the solution becomes acid in reaction , and exhibits reducing properties .
On evaporating this acid solution a crystalline salt is obtained , which is the hydrochloride of the reducing base .
As the spherical mereury salt , obtained as above from urine , appeared to be always quite homogeneous and pure , with the exception of a little colouring matter , the exact weight of the compound obtained from known volumes of urine was next ascertained .
' .
til The samples of urine examined were in all cases ascertained to be free from albumen and sugar before preoipitation .
The filtrates from the first or amorphous precipitate , produced by mercuric chloride and sodic acetate , were allowed to collect in a large glass vessel , in which the spherical compound gradually accumulated .
After standing 1887 .
] On Kreatinin367 some days , the total precipitate was collected , washed with cold water , dried in a vacuum over H2S04 , and weighed .
( I. ) 34,640 c.c. of urine gave 198 grams of Hg salt , equivalent to 57 grams of Hg salt per litre of urine .
( II .
) 40,625 c.c. of urine gave 29313 grams of Hg salt , equivalent to 719 grams of Hg salt per litre of urine .
The mean specific gravity in Experiment I was 1'020 , and the mean reduction of picric acid was equivalent to O'67 grain glucose per 1 fluid ounce .
The mean specific gravity in Experiment II was 1'022 , and the mean reduction of picric acid was equivalent to 0'86 grain of glucose per 1 fluid ounce .
In my own case I found that the mean quantity of mercury salt obtained from the urine of twenty-four hours agreed very nearly with the above results , the total urine of six days having been carefully collected and examined each twenty-four hours .
The formula of the spherical mercury salt arrived at by analysis is 4(C4H7N3O.HCl .
HgO).3HgCl2 .
It may here be observed that mercuric chloride has been recom mended by Maly ( ' Ann. Chem. Pharm. , ' vol. 159 , p. 279 ) for preparing kreatinin from the urine of man or the horse .
He does not mention the fractional precipitation by mercuric chloride , but recommends a preliminary concentration of the urine by heat , and precipitation by basic lead acetate before adding mercuric chloride .
On repeating his process I found that even after the removal of the uric acid , \amp ; c. , by basic lead acetate , the mercuric chloride still produced an immediate flocculent precipitate , followed by a granular one , and if the flocculent amorphous matter was not separated by filtration , the total mercury precipitate yielded a gummy mass after treatment with H2S , which would not yield crystals until treated with alcohol , as Maly himself recommends .
By my method , however , the hydrochloride of the reducing base is obtained in crystals after the first evaporation ; these crystals contain chlorine in the proportion required by the formula C4H7N30.HC1 .
The 'platinum salt of the reducing base is obtained in the form of anhydrous crystals , when an alcoholic solution of its hydrochloride is mixed with an alcoholic solution of platinic chloride .
If these anhydrous crystals be dissolved in water , and the solution evaporated , or if the aqueous solution of the hydrochloride of the base be mixed with platinic chloride in aqueous solution and evaporated , fine orange-coloured prisms separate out , which have the formula 2(C4H7N30.HCl).PtCl4.2H20 .
Heated to 100 ' C. , these crystals become anhydrous , yellow , and opaque .
VOL. xlii .
2 E Mr. G. S. Johnson .
[ June 16 , The free reducing base is obtained from its hydrochloride by mixing the concentrated aqueous solution with excess of pure lead hydrate without heat , and filtering ; the alkaline filtrate by spontaneous evaporation deposits large square plates with bevelled edges , or long efflorescent prisms if great care is taken to avoid heating the solution of the hydrochloride .
The aqueous solution of the free base is alkaline in reaction , intensely bitter to the taste , gives crystalline precipitates with zinc chloride , mercuric chloride , and picric acid , but none with silver nitrate , unless the solution be very concentrated .
The reducing base , which is undoubtedly the natural kreatinin of urine , when anhydrous , has the empirical formula C4H7NsO , but the efflorescent kreatinin , obtained only when great care is taken to avoid heat , has the composition G4H7N30.2II30 .
After efflorescence this body has the same percentage composition as the anhydrous tabular kreatinin :\#151 ; 1 part by weight of the tabular kreatinin dissolves in 1078 parts of water at 17 ' C. 1 part of the tabular kreatinin dissolves in 362 parts of absolute alcohol at 17 ' CL The efflorescent kreatinin\(before efflorescence ) dissolves in 10-6 parts of water at 14 ' C , The effloresced kreatinin requires 14 parts of water at 14 ' 0 .
for solution .
The natural kreatinin of urine reduces cupric oxide in proportion as 12 : 10 parts by weight of glucose .
The average weight of this base passed by a healthy man in twenty-four hours ( as determined by weighing the spherical mercury salt precipitated from the urine as above ) is from 17 to 27 grams , equivalent in reducing action upon cupric oxide to from 1:5 to 175 grams of glucose ( = 23 to 27 grains of glucose in 52'8 fluid ounces of urine ) .
Therefore cupric oxide will be reduced by the normal urine in quantities equivalent to the reduction effected by 0'43 to 0'51 grain of glucose per 1 fluid ounce .
The conclusion is that the total reduction effected by normal urine is accounted for by the uric acid and kreatinin which it contains .
Part II .
The natural urinary kreatinin yields a kreatin when its dilute aqueous solution is subjected to prolonged ebullition ; and this kreatin , when treated by Liebig 's process , is converted into kreatinin hydrochloi ide .
This artificial kreatinin hydrochloride differs from the hydrochloride of the natural kreatinin of urine , in that it crystallises from cold aqueous solution in efflorescent crystals , whereas the hydrochloride of the natural base is always anhydrous .
Tabular Synopsis of Comparison between various Kreatinins .
Solubility of base in \ water J i. Efflorescent kreatinin of urine , C4H7N30.2H20 .
2 .
Tabular kreatinin of urine , c4h7n3o .
3 .
Efflorescent kreatinin from urinary kreatin , C4H7N30.2H20 .
4 .
Tabular kreatinin a from urinary kreatin , c4h7n3o .
5 .
" Kreatinin " ( Liebig ) .
1 in 10'6 parts at 14 ' C. 1 in 10-78 parts at 17 ' 0 .
\#151 ; 1 in 10-68 parts at 16'5 ' 0 .
1 in 11*5 parts at 16 ' C. Solubility of base in \ alcohol J \#151 ; 1 in 362 parts at 17 ' C. \#151 ; 1 in 324 parts at 18-5 ' 0 .
1 in 102 parts at 16 ' C. Platinum salt . . . .
Indefinite or decomposed by alcohol .
2(C4H7N30.HC1 ) .
PtCl4'2H20 .
Indefinite , or decomposed by alcohol .
2(C4H7N3O.HCl ) .
PtCl4.2H20 .
2iC4H7N3O.HCl ) .
PtCl4 .
Solubility of plati-1 num salt in water J \#151 ; 1 in 141 parts at 15 ' C. \#151 ; 1 in 24*4 parts at 15 ' C. \#151 ; Gold salt 04H7N30.HC1.AuC13 .
Unchanged by ether .
C4H7N3O.HC1.AuC13 .
Unchanged by ether .
C4H7N3O.HC1.AuC13 .
Decomposed by ether .
C4H7N3O.HC1.AuC13 .
Decomposed by ether .
\#151 ; Reduction of cupric* ) oxide by base com- 1 pared with that of j glucose .
, J 4 molecules C^H-N^O = 2 molecules glucose ( after efflorescence ) .
4 molecules = 2 molecules glucose .
5 molecules = 2 molecules of glucose ( after efflorescence ) .
5 molecules = 2 molecules glucose .
\#151 ; 03 o 1887 .
] On Kra 370 Mr. G. Massee .
On Gasterolichenes .
[ June 16 , Efflorescent and tabular kreatinins may be obtained from this hydrochloride , resembling in crystalline form and percentage composition those derived from the natural hydrochloride , but exhibiting some important differences .
Thus the platinum salt of the artificial tabular kreatinin requires nearly twice as much water to dissolve it as that of the natural base at the same temperature .
Both the natural and artificial kreatinins form well-crystallised gold salts .
The gold salt of the natural kreatinin is unchanged by ether , but that of the artificial base is decomposed thereby , the kreatinin hydrochloride separating out , and the auric chloride passing into solution .
Finally the artificial kreatinins are less powerful reducing agents than the natural base .
4 mols .
of the natural kreatinins are equivalent to 2 mols .
of glucose .
5 mols .
of the artificial kreatiuins are equivalent to 2 mols .
of glucose in reducing action .
Therefore artificial kreatinins must not be compared with the natural base as to their reducing action .
Note added 13th May , 1887 .
Professor W. N. Hartley has observed a marked difference in the absorption spectra of the natural kreatinin of urine , and of an artificial kreatinin obtained by the author from flesh kreatin .
IX .
" On Gasterolichenes , a New Type of the Group By G. Massee .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , F.R.S. Received May 5 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) In the greater number of Lichenes , the fungal constituent belongs to the section Ascomycetes , characterised by having the spores produced in asci .
Recently a second group of Lichenes has been described , and called Hymenolichenes , in which the fungus belongs to the Hymenomycetous Basidiomycetes , and closely related to the genera Gorticium and Stereum .
In the present communication , a third type of lichen structure is described , in which the fungus belongs to the order Gasteromycetes , or puff-balls .
Gasterolichenes is the name suggested for this group , which consists of two genera , JEmericella , Berk .
, and Tricliocoma , Jungh .
, hitherto described as fungi .

