1890 .
] Development of Ciliary or Motor Oculi Ganglion .
287 2\ ( water ) = 39-2 , 2X ( saponine ) = 39'5 , h ( water ) = 30-.5 , h ( saponine ) = 20 " .
Thus although the capillary heights differ considerably , the tensions at the first moment are almost equal .
In tins case then , as in that of soap , there is strong evidence that the lowered tension is flip result of the formation of a pellicle . . . .
, , Though not immediately connected with the principal subject of this communication , it may be well here to record that I find saponine to have no effect inimical to the rebound after mutual collision of jets rontaining it .
The same may be said of gelatine , whose solutions froth strongly .
On the other hand , a very little soap or oleate usually renders such rebound impossible , but this effect appears to depend upon undissolved greasy matter .
At least the drops from a nearly vertical fountain of clear solution of soap were found not to scatter * The rebound of jets is , however , a far more delicate test than that of drops .
A fountain of strong saponine differs in appearance from one of water ; but this effect is due rather to the superficial viscosity , which retards , or altogether prevents , the resolution 111Th^failure of rebound when jets or drops containing milk or undissolved soap come into collision has not been fully explained ; but it is probably connected with the disturbance which must aiise w len a particle of grease from the interior reaches the surface of one of the liquid masses .
p S___I Pave lately found that the high tension of recently formed surfaces of soapy water was deduced by A. Dupre , f as long ago as 1869 from some experiments upon the vertical rise of fine jets .
Although this method is less direct than that of the present paper , M. Dupre must be considered , I think , to have made out his case .
It is remarkable that so interesting an observation should not have attracted more attention .
III .
" On the Development of the Ciliary or Motor Oculi Ganglion .
" By J. C. Ewart , M.D. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received February Id , 1890 .
The most conflicting views have for some time been held as to the origin , relations , and homology of the ciliary ( motor oculi , ophthalmic , * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' June 15 , 1882 .
f ' Theory Mecanique de la Chaleur , ' Paris , 1869 .
Dr. J. C. Ewart .
On Development of [ Mar. 6 , or lenticular ) ganglion .
By Remak , * Schwalbe , f Marshall , + and others , the ganglion of the ophthalmicus profundus has been described as the ciliary ganglion , and this ganglion has frequently been regarded as the ganglion of the motor oculi nerve , and hence as homologous with the Gasserian and other cranial ganglia .
The ciliary gano-lion having been shown by van WijheS to be quite distinct from " the ganglion of the ophthalmicus profundus , the old view of Arnold has been recently revived , and already van Wijhe , Hoffmann , || Onodi f Dohrn , ** and Beardf f have indicated that they regard the ciliary 'as a sympathetic ganglion .
Hoffmann bases his belief on certain observations on the development of the ciliary ganglion in reptiles , while Onodi has adopted this view chiefly because in the higher vertebrates the ciliary ganglion receives a communicating branch from the sympathetic .
But Beard , while considering the ciliary a sympathetic ganglion , states that in sharks he has seen nothing in support of " the mode of origin for the ciliary ganglion described by Hoffmann , " in reptiles .
Having examined the cranial nerves of a number of Elasmo-biancbs at various stages of development and growth , I am now able to give an account of the ciliary ganglion and indicate its nature and its relations to the motor oculi and other cranial nerves .
In this note , however , I shall only state the more important results obtained , as the subject will be fully dealt with in a further contribution " On the Cranial Nerves of Elasmobranchs .
" In studying the ciliary ganglion in Elasmobranchs I have been specially struck with its tendency to vary , not only in the same genus or species , but in the same individual .
Of the numerous specimens examined , I have only once found the ganglion entirely absent ( in an adult Raid 7 ctdiataX ) , while I have occasionally ( in Acanthias ) found two well developed ganglia on each side .
Usually in sharks I found the ganglion lying in connexion with the inferior branch of the motor oculi , while.in skates it was generally in contact with the ophthalmicus profundus , or lying midway between the motor oculi and the ganglion of the profundus .
In form the ganglion varies extremely ; rounded or conical in some cases , in others it was represented by two or three # ' TTntersuchungen zur Entwickelungs-Geschichte der Wirbeltiere/ 1885 .
f ' Jenaische Zeitschrift fur Naturwissenschaft , ' 1879 , p. 173 .
X c Quarterly Journal Microscopical Science/ Jan. , 1881 .
S " Ueber die Mesodermsegmente und die Entwickelung der Nerven des Selachier-kopfes ( ' Natuurk .
Yerh .
der Koninkl .
Akademie , Amsterdam/ vol. 22 ) .
|| " Weitere Ontersuchungen zur Entwickelungsgesch .
der Eeptilien " ( 'Morph .
Jalirbuch/ vol. 11 , part 2 ) .
IT 6 Arcliiv fur Anatomie und Physiologie ( Physiol. Abtli.)/ 1887 .
## " Studien zur Urgeschichte des Wirbelthierkorjaers/ ' No. 10 ( ' Mitteil .
a. d. Zool. Stat. zu Neapel/ vol. 6 , part 3 ) .
ft c Anatomischer Anzeiger/ Jahrgang 2 ( 1887 ) , Nos. 18 and 19 .
1890 .
] the Ciliary or Motor Ganglion .
groups of cells lying parallel to or in contact with the motor oculi .
In some cases ganglionic cells had wandered from the ganglion a considerable distance along the ciliary nerves towards the eyeball .
Although in sharks the ciliary ganglion often lay in close contact with the motor oculi nerve , no ganglionic cells were ever found either in the trunk of that nerve or on any of its branches .
In skates the ganglion was usually more intimately related with the ophthalmicus profundus than the oculo-motor .
In all cases the ciliary ganglion had at least two roots , one from the motor oculi , and one or two from the ophthalmicus profundus .
In skates the profundus root always proceeded directly from the profundus ganglion , and the profundus ganglion was frequently found to be connected by a communicating branch with the Gasserian ganglion .
Both in sharks and skates , in addition to the ciliary nerves from the ciliary ganglion there were ciliary nerves proceeding from the ganglion and from the trunk of the profundus , and in some cases large ganglionic cells had wandered from the profundus ganglion along the ciliary nerves ; occasionally a few large cells had migrated some distance along the main trunk of the profundus .
In all cases the majority of the cells of the ciliary ganglion were only about half the size of the cells of the profundus ganglion .
In skate embryos ( E. batis ) under two inches in length no indication of the ciliary ganglion was discovered , and in shark embryos about ten inches in length the ganglion was frequently represented by small groups of cells in the vicinity of the inferior branch of the oculomotor nerve .
In sharks the first steps in the development of the ganglion were not observed , but in skates it was possible to make out all the stages .
The first indication of the ganglion was in the form of a slender outgrowth from the inferior border of the large ophthalmicus profundus ganglion , which met and blended with fibres from the descending branch of the motor oculi .
The outgrowth from the profundus ganglion was crowded with cells ; the fibres from the motor , like its root and trunk , were absolutely destitute of cells .
At a somewhat later stage the cells had accumulated at the junction of the outgrowth from the profundus ganglion with the fibres from the motor oculi .
It looked as if the blending of the two sets of fibres had formed a network which resisted the further migration of the ganglionic cells .
In typical cases , at a still later stage , all the ganglionic cells had left the outgrowth from the profundus ganglion to form a rounded mass from which the ciliary nerves took their origin .
In some instances some of the fibres which connected the profundus ganglion with the Gasserian seemed to reach and end in the ciliary ganglion .
It thus appears that the ciliary ganglion stands in the same relation to one of the cranial nerves ( the ophthalmicus proDr .
J. C. Ewart .
[ Mar. 6 , fundus ) as the sympathetic ganglia of the trunk stand to the spinal nerves , and that the ciliary ganglion may henceforth he considered a sympathetic ganglion .
Further investigations may show that the ganglia in connexion with the branches of the trigeminus ( fifth ) nerve may also be considered as belonging to the sympathetic system .
In conclusion , I may say that I have found the vestiges of the ophthalmicus profundus ganglion in a five months human embryo lying under cover of the inner portion of the Gasserian ganglion , and satisfied myself that the ophthalmicus profundus of the Elasmobranch is represented in man , as suggested by several writers , by the so-called nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth .
To , as far as possible , clear up the confusion that has arisen from mistaking the ophthalmicus profundus nerve for a branch of the oculo-motor or of the trigeminus nerve , and the ganglion of the ophthalmicus profundus for the ciliary ganglion , it might be well in future to speak of the profundus as the oculo-nasal nerve and its ganglion as the oculo-nasal ganglion .
IV .
" The Cranial Nerves of the Torpedo .
( Preliminary Note .
) " By J. C. Ewart , M.D. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received February 13 , 1890 .
The cranial nerves of the torpedo agree in their general arrangement with those of the skate.* The ophthalmicus profundus occupies the usual position , but its ganglion lies in close contact with the Gasserian , and not on a level with the ciliary , ganglion .
The trigeminus has the usual distribution , for , notwithstanding the statements in the most recent text-books , f the trigeminus sends no branch to the electric organ .
The facial complex includes the superficial ophthalmic , the buccal , and the hyomandibular nerves , all of which have the same distribution as the corresponding nerves in the skate ; but the hyomandibular includes or is accompanied by a large bundle of nerve fibres which supply the anterior and inner portion of the electric organ .
This large nerve cord ( the first electric nerve ) has hitherto almost invariably J been described as a branch of the trigeminus .
When traced backwards , it is found to spring from the anterior portion of the electric lobe .
* Ewart , " On the Cranial Nerves of Elasmobranch Fishes , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. .
' vol. 45 , 1889 .
+ JE.g .
, McKendrick , 'Text-Book of Physiology , ' 1888 , and Wiedersheim , 4 Grundriss der vergleichenden Anatomy , ' 1888 .
X Fritsch is the only author I am acquainted with who does not describe the first electric nerve as a branch of the trigeminus ( ' Untersuchungen fiber den feineren Bau des Fischgehirns , ' Berlin , 1878 ) ; he , however , speaks of it as being contiguous to , and as disappearing along with , the nervus trigeminus .

