fig : 1 : BA 6 fig : 3 : HF V. An Abstract of a Letter , wrote some time since , by Signior John Ciampini of Rome , to Father Bernard Joseph a Jesu Maria , &amp;c. concerning the Asbestus , and manner of spinning and making an incombustible Cloath thereof .
AFter some account of the Name of the Asbestus Stone , he mentions four sorts , of which he has Specimens in his Musaeum .
The first sent him from Corsica or Corfu , long , of a woody form , of half a palm length and more , of a whitish colour , something inclining to a reddish .
The second of a Silverish Lead colour , softer and shorter , about three inches , this was from Sestri di Ponente in Liguria .
The third ( which is the worst of all ) is like Scales or Laminae one upon another ( as he represents it like an Onion ) of a blackish earth colour , with some white , black and dark red veins interspersed , scarce two parts of an inch Roman long , therefore fitter for making of Paper , than spinning or weaving .
The fourth sort , given him by Signior Boccone , found in the Pyrenaeans , some whereof were a Roman Palm long ; its filaments , tho longer , were yet thicker and rougher ; he says also , that he heard of another sort in Volateranis Monlibus .
Then quoting some passages out of Pliny Dioscorides , and other Authors that have mentioned this Stone , and the Cloath made of it , he touches upon the supposed use thereof for the wiekes of Sepulchral Lamps , and from some experiments concludes it unfit for that purpose , he always finding the wiekes made of it to go out , and not attract or continue up the oil for the flame .
Next he tells us , he kept it for 3 weeks in a Glass-house fire , but found it unaltered ; but it would not preserve a stick wrapped in it from the fire ; whence he concludes the Amiantus loses nothing in the fire , because it does not burn nor flame ; but in the handling it wastes , tho not much , as he found by an exact balance .
Lastly , he proceeds to show the manner of spinning it , which he tried thus ; first he laid the Stone in Water ( if warm the better ) for some time to soak , then it is opened and divided with the hands , that the Earthy parts may fall out of it , which are whitish like Chalk , and hold the thready parts together ; this makes the water thick and milky ; this is repeated six or seven times with fresh water , where it is again opened and squeezed , till all the heterogeneous parts are washed out , and then the Flax-like parts are collected , and laid in a Sieve to dry .
Of his four sorts of Amiantus , he found that from Corsica best , being long and soft ; and the Cyprian worst ; where by the way he doubts whether his was of the best sort , since the Cyprian was commended by Pancirollus and others which he quotes .
But to come more close to the way of spinning it , he first shows a method discovered to him , which was thus .
Lay the Amiantus , cleansed as before , between two Cards , such as they card Wool with , Fig. 4 .
&amp; 5 .
where let it be gently carded , and then clapped up in between the Cards , so that some of it may hang out at the sides , then lay the Cards fast upon a Table or Bench , fig. 6 .
Take a small Reel , fig. 7 made with a little hook at the end , fig. 8 .
and a part to turn it by , fig. 9 .
so that it may easily be turned round , this Reel is to be wound over with fine Thread , then having a small vessel of Oil ready , fig. 10 .
with which the Fore-finger and Thumb are constantly to be kept wet , both to preserve the Skin from the corrosive quality of the Stone , and render the filaments thereof more soft and pliant : thus by twisting the Thread upon the Reel about , with the Asbestus hanging out of the Cards , some of it will be worked up together with it ; by little and little , this Thread may with care be woven into a course sort of Cloath , and by putting it into the Fire , the Thread and Oil will be burnt away , and the incombustible Cloath remain .
But finding this way of uniting the Stone with the Thread very tedious , instead of the Thread he put some Flax upon a Distaff ; and by taking 3 or 4 filaments of the Asbestus , and mixing them with the Flax , he found they might easily be twisted together , and the Thread thus made much more durable and strong : So that there is no need of carding , which rather breaks the filaments than does any good ; open only and separate the filaments after washing upon a Table , and take them up with the Flax , which is sufficient .
As to the making of Paper , he says in the washing the Stone , there will remain several short pieces in the bottom of the Water , and of these after the common method Paper may be made .
He concludes with the best way of preserving the Cloath , or any other thing made of the Stone , when made , for by reason of its exceeding dryness it is very apt to break and waste ; this is by keeping it always well oiled , which is the only preservative for it ; and when the Cloath is put in the Fire the Oil burns off , and the Cloath comes out white and purified .

