]\gt ; A Portable Variometer veying .
GEORGE W. , A.R.C.Sc .
, M.A. , , formerly Fellow of Trin ity College , Cambridge .
( Received November 25 , 1915 .
) The method of measuring the horizontal component of the earth 's magnetic force in absolute units devised by C. F. Gauss ( ' Collected Works ' ) will probably always be regarded as one of the most important contributions to the science of terrestrial magnetism .
By its introduction magnetic forces were for the first time expressed in terms of the fundamental physical units .
The principles of Gauss ' method have continued in general use 1836 up to the present time ; but it seems likely that before long it will be superseded by simpler electrical methods .
Gauss ' method consists essentially of a vibration experiment and a deflection experiment .
The former requires a considerable amount of practice before good results can be obtained , and is always somewhat difficult to perform .
The whole operation required to give the magnetic force cannot be completed in much under an hour ; so that if the earth 's field is changing rapidly only an average value is obtained , and this is not simply related to the ordinary average value of the force during the time .
Moreover , a number of instrumental constants have to be obtained by special experiments before absolute measures can be assigned , and it is by no means certain that those constants can be used for any very extended period .
Unless the greatest care of the magnets is taken , the constants are liable to secular change .
If one requires an accuracy of 1 in 300 the matter is uot very serious ; but modern work in some cases requires , or at least claims , an accuracy to 1 ( gauss ) , and with the values of force as at Greenwich at present this means an accuracy of 1 in 18500 .
Such an accuracy involves a number of minute corrections to the simple fundamental theory and experiments , so that the whole method has become very cumbersome , and it is certain that absolute accuracy to 1 is not attainable by magnetometers of which the New unifilar pattern may be regarded as typical .
Even relative accuracy in , different experiments to this extent does not seem possible .
It is difficult to get detailed data from observatories as to this .
But my own experience is that even under favourable conditions the average error is not likely to be less than and for a single observation it may amount to 20 or even more .
.3 I 4 Mr. G. W. Walker .
If this is so for a fixed observatory , where special precautions can be taken , it seems clear that , in the field work of a survey , where the conditions are not controllable and vary from place to place , we should expect greater errors to arise .
Personally I should doubt if the relative average error in determinations by a Kew unifilar could be put at less than 15 , while a single observation ight be 30 or even 40 wrong .
It may be remarked that this still means an accuracy of 1 in 500 , and there are not many laboratory experiments as good as In a magnetic survey it is essential to get the differences in the values of the magnetic elements at different places so that when the absolute values have been obtained at one place ( base station ) for the epoch selected , the whole state of the surveyed is known .
Thus , as regards horizontal force , it would appear more scientific to eplace the method of taking absolute observations at each by a method which gives the differencs between two places in a simple way .
I was invited by the Royal Society in 1913 to undertake a magnetic re-survey of the British , and while it seemed desirable that the work should be done by the orthodox method hitherto in use , it was apparent that a good opportunity was available for testing a simpler meChod of measuring the horizontal force .
At a fixed place variations of magnetic force are determined as follows : A magnet is suspended by a vertical wire or fibre so that the axis of the magnet is horizontal , and the wire is twisted by means of a torsion-head until the ynetic axis of the magnet is nearly at right angles to the magnetic meridian at the time .
The position of the magnet so obtained gives a zero from which changes of force may be reckoned .
If the horizontal force changes , the magnet its direction in azimuth , and so we measure changes of force on a scale that can be evaluated by direct experiment .
Small changes of declination do not affect the results , nor need the setting be correct to more than .
What does the accuracy is instrumental change produced by change of temperature , of zero due to secular change in the moment of the magnet or of the torsion of the suspension .
Thus we require to know the temperature A Portable riometer for gnetic Sveying .
315 , coefficient , and from time to time the base value of the zero must be determined by an absolute observation .
In symbols the theory is as follows:\mdash ; Let ON be the magnetic meridian , and AB the axis of the magnet , an angle with ON .
Let angle of twist of the torsion head measuredclockwise from ON .
moment of the magnet .
horizontal component of earth 's magnetic force .
torsional constant .
In equilibrium Let the zero values be , and let change to .
Since does not change we get Thus if we Thus the variations of are proportional to the changes of H. We also see that if differs a little from S the result will not be appreciably affected unless is very small compared with .
Further , a small change in the direction of , i.e. a small change in declination , does not ) roduce an appreciable change in It was argued that such a variometer could be set up at one place , where the apparatus was adjusted in definite relation to the magnetic meridian there , and then traIlsferred to another place and set in the same relative position to the magnetic meridian at the second place ; then , if the setting of the torsion head has not been changed , the apparent change of would give the difference of magnetic force between the two places .
Moreover , small errors of relative setting amounting to a few minutes of arc would not measurably affect the result .
These views were put before Dr. Schuster , who encouraged me to them in practice , and a grant for the apparatus was made by the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society .
The Kew unifilar Elliott 66 , which was used in the survey , suffices to give the maguetic meridian , and is provided with an azimuth circle reading to The new variometer was therefore designed to fit ' and geometrically on the Kew instrument so that the same relative positi ) Mr. G. W. Walker of variometer , unifilar and magnetic meridian was always obtained .
My past experience of variometers having indicated the small magnets with quartz suspensions , I arranged for the } system to be a cylindrical magnet 2 cm .
long and 1 mm. in diameter , suspended by a quartz fibre about 8 cm .
long .
A torsion-head provided for initial adjustment and was then screwed in position .
A screw arrangement was provided for clamping the suspended part while carrying the instrument from place to place , and was only released when the was to be made .
consultation with Mr. Horace Darwin I decided to use an autocollimation method to determine the changes of position of the suspended magnet .
The moving system carried an optically plane mirror with its surface vertical and at right angles to the magnet .
This mirror was viewed by a horizontal telescope which fitted geometrically in a rigid frame attached to the casing .
A right-angled prism was inserted so that one of the small faces crossed by a vertical quartz fibre lay in the focal plane of the object glass .
Thus an image of the fibre was returned from the plane mirror to the focal plane of the object glass .
A glass scale divided horizontally in 100 divisions was placed in the focal plane and then viewed by a Ramsden eyepiece .
Thus the position of the image of ) fibre on the scale was read .
A section of the apparatus is shown in Plate 3 .
The question of scale value and range had to be considered .
I expected that the region surveyed in 1915 would have a range rather less than , so that a scale value of to per division was aimed at .
Each small division being read to tenths , the smallest difference that could be estimated would b or A suitable quartz fibre was obtained by trial and proved to have a diameter of 65 .
The scale value and temperature coefficient were determined and a preliminary trial of the instrument was made at 15 stations in and Wales in April , 1915 .
When compared with the absolute observations the differences varied more than I had expected , and on my return to I found that small differences of level made very appreciable changes in the reading .
This could not be explained by any mechanical or optical defect and could only be accounted for by local spurious magnetisaGion close to the magnet .
This proved to be the case , and , on removing a small copper damping sheath which came very close to the magnet , a comparatively change of level could be made without altering the reading .
A new damping sheath was fitted , and although it was not entirely free from spurious magnetisation I verified such error of as one make from day to day did not produce a change of more than one-tenth division , and I accepted the result .
A Portable riometer .
for Magnetic Surveying .
The reorganised instrument was again standardised .
I had perforce to do this by means of collimator magnet 66 , using corrections for magnetic val.iations supplied from Greenwich .
The results cannot be very far wrong , but doubtless a standardisation by electrical methods with the aid of neighbouring variometers is what is really wanted .
If is the absolute value where the reading is and the temperature Centigrade , then the value of when the reading is and the temperature is iveu by , where per C. per scale division were the values obtained b.y the experiments made ab Cambridge .
The instrument was tried at six more points in Licestershire in June .
The agreement with the absolute observations was better than before , but the results suggested a secular change of zero .
I was not able to resume the survey work until August , when I proceeded to Ireland .
The instrument had rested during the interval and had not been readjusted .
It has lJow been successfully carried all over Ireland and back to Cambridge without injury .
Comparative observations with it and the Kew unifilar are now available at 48 different points in Ireland and from August to October .
Before discussing the results I may describe the method of using the apparatus in the field .
The unifilar is set up and the circle reading of the magnetic meridian obtained in the usual way .
The variometer then mounted on the base of the unifilar and the circle turned to from the netic meridian .
The level is carefully adjusted and then the clamping screw is released .
In about two minutes the needle is practically steady , and the reading of tlre scale and of the temperature may be made and the time noted .
I find the interval between making the declination readings , mounting the variometer and getting its reading is usually rather less than 10 minutes .
Further the reading is at a definite instant of time .
In my work I then proceeded to determine in the ordinary way by the unifilar .
The interval between these two determinations being considerable , may have changed .
I have had to assume that the variation supplied by Greenwich is applicable ovel the region surveyed .
Of course this is not correct , but no other course is open at present , and one can only hope that it gives the most substantial part of the variation .
I found it convenient to take scale reading 50 and temperature C. as my base , and a Table readily supplies the value in magnetic units of 1 of A Portable for gnetic Surveying .
The greatest difference that occurs in the series is 52 at Killarney , and I little hesitation in ascribing this largely to the unifilar .
The temconditions were the worst I experienced in the whole of my survey .
At Killarney the temperature changed C. during the vibration experiviz .
, C. , while the temperature during the deflection experiwas C. The variometer is specially arranged with non-conducting material , to rapid changes of temperature .
I consider that the investigation supports the view that the portable will normally give the force within 5 ut the error may rise to 13 , while the unifilar in the field will normally give the force within , but the error may rise to about 40 There can be no question of the enormous simplification of the field work such a portable variometer produces , and the principle should be valuable for detailed survey of small local disturbances .
Clearly , single observations by the unifilar are not good for the base val and secular change of zero of the variometer ; what is really wanted is access at suitable intervals during a rvey to operly equipped observatory where magnetic values at any time can be with an accuracy of 1 or 2 I find that high winds are rather apt to keep the needle oscillating , but , if the tripod stand is very firmly bedded in stiff soil , this trouble is very serious .
Another point may be noted .
By the use of a small source held near the reflecting prism , readings can be obtained at night as as during the day .
The apparatus was made by the Scientific Instrument by aid of a financial grant from the Government Grant Comof the Royal Society .
VOL. xcn.\mdash ; A.

