]\gt ; The Motion of Revolving Shaft , and a Suggestion as to the Angular Momentum in Beam of Light .
By J. H. POINTING , Sc. D. , F.R.S. ( Received June 2 , \mdash ; Read June 24 , 1909 .
) When a shaft of circular section is revolving uniformly , and is transmitting power uniformly , a row of particles originally in a line parallel to the axis will lie in a spiral of constant pitch , and the position of the shaft at any instant may be described by the position of this spiral .
Let us suppose that the power is transmitted from left to right , and that as viewed from the left the revolution is clockwise .
Then the spiral is a left-handed screw .
Let it be on the surface , and there make an angle with the axis .
Let the radius of the shaft be let one turn of the spiral have length along the axis .
We may term the wave-length of the spiral .
We have .
If the orientation of the section at the origin at time is given by , where is the number of revolutions per second , the orientation of the section at is given by , ( 1 ) which means movement of orientation from left to right with velocity The equation of motion for twist waves on a shaft of circular section is , ( 2 ) where modulus of rigidity/ density Though ( 1 ) satisfies ( 2 ) , it can hardly be termed a solution for , and in ( 1 ) are both zero .
But we may adapt a solution of ( 2 ) to fit ( 1 ) if we assume certain conditions in ( 1 ) .
The periodic value satisfies ( 2 ) , and is a wave motion with velocity and wave-length .
Make so great that for any time or for any distance under observation and are so small that the angle may be put for the sine .
Then .
( 3 ) This is uniform rotation .
It means that we only deal with the part of The Wave Motion of Revolving Shaft , etc. the wave near a node , and that we make the wave-length so great that ' a long distance the " " displacement curve\ldquo ; obtained by plotting against coincides with the tangent at the node .
We must uish , of course , between the wave-length of the periodic motion and the wave-length of the spiral .
We can only make ( 1 ) coincide with ( 3 ) by putting and Then it follows that for a given value of , the impressed speed of uniform rotation , there is only one value of or one value of for which the motion may be regarded as part of a natural wave system , transmitted by the elastic forces of the material with velocity .
There is therefore only one " " natural\ldquo ; rate of transmission of energy .
The value of is given by .
Suppose , for instance , that a steel shaft with radius cm .
, density , and idity n is making revs .
per sec. We may put , since it is very small .
The shaft is twisted through in length or through per centimetre , and the torque across a section is , since The energy transmitted per second is .
Putting 1 H.P. ergs per second , this gives about 38 ) .
But a shaft revolving with given speed can transmit any power , subject to the limitation that the strain is not too great for the material .
When the power is not that " " naturally\ldquo ; transmitted , we must regard the waves a , s " " forced The velocity of transmission is no longer , and forces will have to be applied from outside in addition to the elastic forces to give the new velocity .
Let be the couple applied per unit length from outside .
Then the equation of motion becomes where is the moment of inertia of the cross section .
Assuming that the condition travels on with velocity unchanged in form , and 562 has only to be applied value , that is [ June 2 , or has only to be applied where has value , that is where the twist is changing .
The following adaptation of Rankine 's tube method of obtaining wave velocities* gives these results in a more direct manner .
Suppose that the shaft is indefinitely extended both ways .
Any twist disturbance may be propagated unchanged in form with any velocity we choose to assign , if we apply from outside the distribution of torque which , added to the torque due to strain , will make the change in twist required by the iven wave motion the assigned speed .
Let the velocity of propagation be from left to right , and let the displacement at any section be , positive if clockwise when seen from the left .
The twist per unit length is The torque across a section from left to right in clockwise direction is Let the shaft be moved from right to left with velocity ; then the disturbance is fixed in space , and if we imagine two fixed planes drawn to the axis , one , , at a point where the distu1bance is and the other , , outside the wave system , where there is no disturbance , the condition between A and remains constant , except that the matter undergoing that condition is changing .
Hence the total angular momentum between and is constant .
But no ular momentum enters at , since the shaft is there untwisted and has merely linear motion .
At , then , there must be on the whole no transfer of ular momentum from right to left .
Now , angular momentum is transferred in three ways : 1 .
By the by matter .
The angular momentum per unit length is , and since length per second passes oub at , it carries out 2 .
By the torque exerted by matter on the of A on matter on theleft of A. This takes out 3 .
By the stream of angular momentum by which we may represent the forces applied from outside to 1nake the velocity instead of If is the couple applied per unic , we may regard it as due to the flow of angular momentum along the shaft from left to right , such that .
There is then angular momentum flowing out per second from left .
Since total flow ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , and ( 3 ) is zero , * Phil. Trans 1870 , p. 277 .
1909 .
] The Wave Motion of a Revolving Shaft , etc. and , and .
If , either when the velocity has its " " natural value or , and the shaft is revolving with uniform twist in the part considered .
Now put on to the system a velocity from left to right .
The motion of the shaft parallel to its axis is reduced to zero , and the disturbance and the system will travel on from left to right with velocity U. " " forced\ldquo ; velocity does not imply transfer of physical conditions by the material with that velocity .
We can only regard the conditions as reproduced at successive points by the aid of external forces .
We may illustrate this point by considering the incidence of a wave against a surface .
If the angle of incidence is and the velocity of the wave is , the line of contact moves over the surface with velocity , which may have any value from to infinity .
The velocity is not that of transmission by the material of the surface , but merely the velocity of a condition impressed on the surface from outside .
Probably in all cases of transmission with forced velocity , and certainly in the case here considered , the velocity depends upon the wave-length , and there is dispersion .
With a shaft times per second , and it is interesting to note that the group velocity is zero .
It is not at once evident what the group velocity signifies in the case of uniform rotation .
In ordinary cases it is the velocity of travel of the ' beat\ldquo ; pattern , formed by two trains of slightly different frequencies .
The complete ' beat\ldquo ; pattern is contained between two successive points of agreement of phase of the two trains .
In our case of superposition of two strain spirals with constant speed of rotation , points of evreement of phase are points of intersection of the two spirals .
At such points the phases are the same , or one has gained on the other by .
Evidently as the shaft revolves these points remain in the same crosssection , and the group velocity is zero .
With deep water waves the group velocity is half the wave velocity , and the energy flow is half that required for the onward march of the waves .
* The energy flow thus suffices for the onward march of the group , and the case suggests a simple relation between energy flow and group velocity .
But the simplicity is special to unforced trains of waves .
Obviously , * O. nolds , ' Nature , ' August 23 , 1877 ; Lord Rayleigh , 'Theory of Sound , ' vol. 1 , p. 477 .
VOL. LXXXII.\mdash ; A. 2 564 Dr. Pointing .
[ June 2 , it does not hold when there are auxiliary working forces adding or subtracting along the waves .
For the revolving shaft the simple relation would give us no energy flow , whereas the strain existing in the shaft implies transmission of energy at a rate given as follows .
The twist per unit length is , and therefore the torque across a ection is , or , since .
Ihe rate of working or of energy flow across the section is U. The relation of this to the strain and kinetic energy in the shaft is easily found .
The strain energy per unit length being ( couple twist per unit length ) is , which is .
The kinetic energy per unit length is , or , In the case of natural velocity , for which no working forces along the shaft are needed , when , the kinetic energy is equal to the strain energy at every point and the transmitted across a section per second is that contained in length But if the velocity is forced this is no longer true , it is easily shown that the energy transferred is that in length , which is less than if , and is reater than if It appears possible that always the energy is transmitted along the shaft at the speed .
If the forced velocity , we may , perhaps , regard the system in a special sense as a natural system with a uniform rotation superposed on it .
Let us suppose that the whole of the strain energy in length is transferred per second while only the fraction of the kinetic energy is transferred , the fraction being stationary .
The energy transferred : strain energy in : kinetic energy in Put , and our supposition gives or If the forced velocity , we may regard the system as a natural one , with a uniform stationary strain superposed on it .
We now suppose that the whole of the kinetic energy is transferred , but only a fraction of the strain , and we obtain or In the Sellmeier model illustrating the dispersion of light , the particles may be regarded as outside the material transmitting the waves and as applying forces to the material which make the velocity forced .
The simple relation between energy flow and group velocity probably does not hold for this model .
1909 .
] The Wave Motion of olving Shaft , etc. It is perhaps worthy of note that a uniform longitudinal flow of fluid may be conceived as a case of wave motion in a manner similar to that of the uniform rotation of a shaft .
A Suggestion as to the Angular Momentum in a Beam of Circularly Light .
A uniformly shaft serves as a mechanical model of a beam of circularly polarised light .
The expression for the orientation of any section of the shaft distant from the origin , , serves also as an expression for the orientation of the disturbance , whatever its nature , constituting circularly polarised For simplicity , take a shaft consisting of a thin cylindrical tube .
Let the radius be , the cross-section of the material , the idity n , and the density .
Let the tube make revolutions per second , and let it have such twist on it that the velocity of transmission of the spiral indicating the twist the natural .
Repeating for this special case what we have found above , the strain energy per unit length is , or , since , the strain is But kinetic energy per unit length is also , so that the total in length is .
The rate of working across a section is or the energy transferred across a section is the energy contained in length If we put for the energy in unit volume and for the torque per unit area , we have whence The between circularly polarised light and the mechanical model suggests that a similar relation between torque and energy may hold in a beam of such light incident normally on an absorbing surface .
If so , a beam of wave-length containing energy per unit volume will up angular momentum per second per unit area .
But in the case of light waves , where is the pressure exerted .
We may therefore put the angular momentum delivered to unit area per second as In the ' Philosophical azine , ' 1905 , vol. 9 , p. 397 , I attempted to show that the analogy between distortional waves and light waves is still closer , in that distortional waves also exert a pressure equal to the energy per unit volume .
But as I have shown in a paper on ' Pressure Perpendicular to the Dr. Pointing .
[ June 2 , Shear Planes in Finif , Pure Shears , etc , the attempt was faulty , and a more correct treatment of the subject only shows that there is probably a pressure .
We cannot say more as to its magnitude than that if it exists it is of the order of the per unit volume .
When a beam is travelling a material medium we may , perhaps , .
account for the angular momentum in it by the following On the electromagnetic theory the disturbance at any given point in a circularly polarised beam is a constant electric strain or displacement uniformly revolving with angular velocity .
In time it changes its direction by This may be effected by the addition of a tangential strain ; or the rotation is produced by the addition of tangential strain per second , or by a current along the circle described by the end of .
We may imagine that this is due to electrons drawn out from their position of equilibrium as to give , and then whirled round in a circle so as to give a circular convection current .
Such a circular current of electrons should possess angular momentum .
Let us digress for a moment to consider an ordinary conduction circuit as illustrating the possession of angular momentum on this theory .
Let the circuit have radius and cross-section , and let there be negative electrons per unit volume , each with charge and mass , and let these be round the circuit with velocity .
If is the total current , The ular momentum will be where A is the area of the circuit and is the magnetic moment .
This is of the order of It is easily seen that this result will hold for any circnit , whatever its form if A is the projection of the circuit on a plane perpendicular to the axis round which the moment is taken and if .
If we suppose that a current of negative electrons flows round circuit in this way and that the reaction while their momentum is being established is on the material of the conductor , then at make of current there should be an impulse on the conductor of moment .
If the circuit could be suspended so that it lay in a horizontal plane and was able to turn about a vertical axis in a space free any magnetic field , we might be able to detect such impulse if it exists .
But it is practically impossible to get a space free from magnetic intensity .
If the field is , the couple in the circuit due to it is proportional to HM .
It would require exceedingly careful construction and adjustment of the circuit to ensure that the component of the couple due to the field

