Second Part of the Paper on the Nerves of the Orbit .
By Charles Bell , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read June 19 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 289 .
] This is a paper in continuation .
In this part the author states that there are six nerves of the brain which go to the eye , while there are in all only nine nerves coming from the brain .
He proceeds to show that each nerve has a distinct or appropriate function .
The branch of the fifth nerve , called Ophthalmicus , bestows upon the parts within the orbit and the coats and surfaces of the eye , sensibility to pain , and that modification of sensibility which causes the winking and rapid motions of the eyelids and eyeball , and produces tears .
It is shown that by the loss of this nerve the eye is deprived of its sensibility to touch and irritation , while it continues to enjoy the sense of vision , and the motions of the eye and eyelids remain perfect .
Having shown that the motions of the eyelids depend on a branch of the seventh nerve , and not on the fifth , as hitherto supposed , and having proved in the former part of the paper that there is a corresponding motion of the eyeball and eyelids , necessary for the preservation of the organ , he proceeds to show that this connexion is established through the fourth nerve ; that the fourth , or trochlearis , goes to that muscle which performs the instinctive and insensible motions of the eyeball , in sympathy with those of the muscles of respiration , and consequently with the eyelids .
Having thus shown that the fourth , and a branch of the seventh , as enumerated by authors , perform the instinctive and involuntary motions of the eyeball and eyelids , he then explains the office of the third and sixth to be exclusively for the voluntary motions of the eye , and for directing the eyeball in subservience to its office of vision .
By the discovery of the peculiar functions of the fourth , fifth , and seventh , the nerves of the head become thus arranged according to their uses : The first is the olfactory nerve .
The second is the nerve of vision .
The third is for the voluntary motions of the eye .
The fourth for the instinctive motions of the eye : The fifth entirely for sensation of the head generally , and for the regulation of certain motions of the jaws .
o The sixth for the motions of one muscle of the eye .
The seventh for the voluntary and involuntary motions of the muscles of the face .
The eighth is the great respiratory nerve .
The ninth , for the voluntary motions of the tongue .
The nerve sometimes enumerated as the tenth of the brain , is properly the first spinal nerve : like those of the spine it has a distinct double root , and is a nerve both of sensation and of motion .
In the end of the paper certain conclusions are drawn , which have reference to the subjects of the preceding papers of the same author .
And here the author advocates the importance of anatomical investigation as superior to experiments on living animals , affirming that erroneous opinions in physiology have been sometimes strengthened instead of corrected by such experiments .

