1877.1 On Friction between Surfaces at Low Speeds .
93 A comparison of the results here obtained with those detailed in Part II of these researches shows that the phenomena produced by suitable disposition of the Leyden battery coincide with those produced by the induction-coil .
With the coil it was found that ( 1 ) for a given electromotive force the column of striae was shorter the larger the battery-surface or strength of current used ; ( 2 ) that the proper motion , when directed , as usual , towards the positive terminal , was more rapid the greater the electromotive force employed .
With the Leyden battery it was found that ( 1 ) in order to maintain the same length of column with an increased surface , the charge must be increased in a larger proportion than the surface ; and ( 2 ) it was noticed that the striae , which when the tension was low were distinct and well separated , became more blurred as the tension rose , until they sometimes were blended into an apparently unbroken column of light .
The presence , however , of the negative glow still showed that the true jar-discharge had not yet been reached .
II .
" On Friction between Surfaces moving at Low Speeds .
" By Fleeming Jenkin , F.R.SS .
L. \amp ; E. , Professor of Engineering in the University of Edinburgh , and J. A. Ewing .
Received March 8 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The common belief regarding friction , which is based on the researches of Coulomb and Morin , is that between surfaces in motion the friction is independent of the velocity , but that the force required to start the sliding is ( in some cases at least ) greater than the force required to overcome friction during motion ; in other words , the static coefficient is usually considered to be greater than the kinetic .
It occurred to the authors that there might possibly be continuity between the two kinds of friction , instead of an abrupt change at the instant in which motion begins .
We should thus expect that when the relative motion of the surfaces is very slow there will be a gradual increase of friction as the velocity diminishes .
Whether any such increase takes place at very low speeds is left an open question by the experiments of Coulomb and Morin , whose methods did not enable definite measurements of the friction to be made when the velocity was exceedingly small .
The authors have succeeded in measuring the friction between surfaces moving with as low a velocity as one five-thousandth of a foot per second , and have found that in certain cases there is decided increase in the coefficient of friction as the velocity diminishes .
The apparatus made use of consisted of a cast-iron disk 2 feet in diameter and weighing 86*2 lbs. , supported on a steel axle whose ends were less than one tenth of an inch in diameter .
These ends were supported in bearings which consisted of rectangular notches cut in pieces 94 On Friction between Surfaces at Low Speeds .
[ Mar. 22 , of the material whose friction against steel was to be measured .
The disk was caused to revolve and then left to itself , when it came to rest in consequence of the friction on the ends of the axle .
The rate of retardation was found as follows :\#151 ; A strip of paper 2| inches broad was stretched round the periphery of the disk , and a pendulum was caused to swing across this paper in a plane perpendicular to that of the disk .
On the pendulum was fastened a fine glass siphon , one end of which dipped into a box containing ink , whilst the other stood at a short distance from the paper strip , across which it was carried as the pendulum oscillated .
By keeping the ink-box strongly electrified ink was deposited on the paper by the point of the siphon in a rapid succession of fine spots .
By this means , without the introduction of any new source of friction , a permanent record was made of the resultant motion of the pendulum and the revolving disk .
This frictionless method of recording was designed by Sir William Thomson for telegraphic purposes , and is employed in his siphon recorder .
From the curve drawn in this way it was easy to determine the rate of retardation of the disk ( and therefore the friction ) corresponding to various velocities of the rubbing surfaces .
The lowest velocity for which the determinations were definite was about 0*0002 foot per second , and the highest velocity to which the experiments extended was 0*01 foot per second .
The surfaces examined were steel on steel , steel on brass , steel on agate , steel on beech , and steel on greenheart\#151 ; in each case under the three conditions , dry , oiled , and wet with water .
In the cases steel on beech oiled or wet with water , and steel on greenheart oiled or wet with water , the coefficient of friction increased as the velocity diminished between the two limits given above , the increase amounting to about twenty per cent , of the lower value .
It appeared that at the higher limit of velocity there was little further tendency to change in the coefficient ; but it is impossible to say how much additional change might take place between the lower limit of the velocity and rest .
In the case of steel on agate wet with water there was a similar but much less marked increase of friction as the velocity decreased ; and in the case of steel on steel oiled there was a slight and somewhat uncertain change of the opposite character\#151 ; that is , a decrease of friction as the velocity decreased .
This case , however , would require further examination .
In all other cases the friction seemed to be perfectly constant and independent of the velocity .
Out of all the sets of circumstances investigated , the only ones in which there was a large difference between the static and kinetic values of the coefficient of friction were those in which a decided increase was observed in the kinetic value as the speed decreased .
This result renders it exceedingly probable that there is continuity between the two kinds of friction .

