On a new Photometer , with its application to determine the relative Intensities of Artificial Light , &amp; rc .
By William Ritchie , A.M. , Rector of the Academy at Tain .
Communicated by the President .
Read December 16 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 141 .
] Mr. Ritchie , after a brief exposition of the theoretical views which led him to the construction of his photometer , lays down the following as the principles on which it depends:1 .
That radiant heat does not permeate glass .
2 .
That light is capable of combining with substances which stop it , and expanding them as heat does .
3 .
That the intensity of light is in the inverse ratio of the squares of the distance .
The photometer , which he then proceeds to describe , consists of two tin-plate cylinders , broad and shallow , each of which is closed at the one end with tin plate , and at the other with a disk of the thickest plate glass , both made air tight .
Each of these cylinders or chambers contains in the middle a diaphragm of black paper , with its black side towards the glass , for the purpose ( as he expresses it , ) of absorbing the light which penetrates the glass , and instantly converting it into heat .
The chambers are then fixed back to back at a little distance from each other , and connected by a bent tube in the form of the letter U , containing a small quantity of a coloured liquid .
This instrument is exposed with its glass faces opposite to two lights to be compared , and their equality is judged of by the liquid in the stem remaining stationary .
Its sensibility is described by the author as such , that a single candle placed 10 , 20 , or 30 feet from it visibly affects it ; while a mass of heated iron affording twenty times the heat has no influence .
The author proposes his photometer as peculiarly well adapted to the measure of the quantity of light given out by gas lights .
The solar light he describes as powerful enough to drive the liquid in the stem through 20 or 30 feet of tube .
He states himself to have an instrument of this kind now making , with which he hopes to render sensible the effect of the moon 's rays .
Finally , he explains the difference between his instrument and that of Professor Leslie to consist in this , -that in the latter the difference of temperature between the two balls is the quantity measured ; in the former the perfect equality of their temperatures is the essential condition .

