A New Invention of a Clock ascendent on a Plain inclined : By Mr. De Gennes , an Officer belonging to the Sea .
Extracted out of the Journal Des Scavans .
WE have formerly seen Clocks , that never go , but when they are applied upon a Plain inclined .
But we never yet saw any Clocks that wind up again of themselves upon the same Plain .
There is to be seen in Mr. Cospi 's Study , a Wooden Wheel , which works the same effect upon a Plain Inclined , invented by Mr. Bondoni , a Florentine Secretary to the said Marquis .
But in regard M. Legati doth not unfold this secret ; and for that M. de Gennes having found out the same , hath successfully applied it to a Clock ; the mannr hereof , which he communicated unto me , I shall here impart .
Fig.5.represents the inside of the Machine placed upon a Plain Inclined .
The whole Invention consists in a Weight , which causes the Machine to play after the following manner .
The Circle FGH being placed upon a Plain Inclined , AB is divided into two unequal parts by the Line G I. To restore to the least Secture its equilibrium there is fastned to the extremity of the Radius D F , a Weight F. which is sufficiently heavy to recover what the lesser Secture loses by its situation , That a Wheel or Clock may thus stand not only in equilibrium , but also ascend upward , there is placed in the middle of the Clock a Drum , which encloses the spring of the Pendulum , upon which Drum is fastened the Radius D F. For thus the spring being mounted , enforces the Drum to turn , and so to raise the Weight , which it cannot raise , without its becoming more heavy , in regard that coming to the point E. it is farther from the Centre , than when it was in F. and thus all the Wheel turns on that side as the spring gives way .
Fig. 5 .
G EDH BF A CI M. de Gennes doth not here give direction how the Wheels that compose the Clock are to be made , because that no Clock-maker that doth not understand how to apply the force of a spring to the motion of a Clock .

