Preliminary Report on the Characese .
By Clement Beid , F.Tt .
S. , and J. Groves .
( Received January 7 , 1916 .
) [ Plate 8 .
] When we applied for a grant to aid in the working out of the Purbeck fossil Characece , we thought it was only a question of studying the anomalous structure of one , or perhaps of two , species , of which we had already gathered together a number of silicified specimens .
It was thought that by polishing a large number of surfaces , or cutting slides of this cherty material , we should discover the links connecting the different parts of the plant .
Further visits to Dorset provided , however , an enormous amount of new material , and the discovery of similar remains in a hard , close-grained limestone opened up new and better methods of research .
The silicified Characece showed in section curious structures , so mineralised and so difficult to interpret , that it was most desirable to obtain specimens in the round , in order better to study their anatomy .
This the calcareous blocks enabled us to do , though , on the other hand , some of the chert specimens preserved delicate non-calcified structures which were missing in the limestone .
On treating some of the limestone blocks with a steady drip of slightly acidulated water , the results were so surprising that we determined to devote most of the amount granted to the work of cutting all the more promising blocks into a series of thin slabs .
Numerous slices were cut , and one side of each was then subjected for many hours to the drip .
Most of the blocks proved to be partially and irregularly silicified , others were more or less dolomitised , a few were partly impregnated with a brown hydrocarbon .
The drip rapidly attacked the pure calcite parts of the matrix and also the crystalline fossils , such as the mollusca , leaving the mineralised areas standing up .
This , of course , was what one would expect .
But more remarkable was the discovery that a great part of the characeous remains were not now pure calcite .
Though not visibly different from the matrix , they are so mineralised as to resist the acid and to stand out in bold relief from the etched surface of the slab of limestone .
We have even been able completely to remove fruits and stems from the matrix , though , as a rule , too long a continuance of the acid drip does at last affect the fossils , and it is better to let well alone when a specimen shows in sufficient relief .
Preliminary Report on the Characeae .
253 The amount of new material thus obtained for the study of the fossil Cliaracecc is so great that it will take us a considerable time to complete the examination and photography .
But already we have discovered that , instead of one or two species , there are certainly seven or eight , belonging apparently to four genera .
We have that number of markedly distinct types of fruits , and we have about the same number of different types of vegetative organs .
This wealth of material is one of the great difficulties in our way .
Nearly every good block contains at least three of the types , and these fragile plants have been so broken up and mixed as to be difficult to disentangle .
Until we can better correlate the different parts of each plant , and fix more definitely which type of fruit belongs to each , we shall not be satisfied , but meanwhile we will characterise the most abundant species , which is the type of a new and remarkable genus .
For this plant we have now obtained the connection of the different parts , and have many specimens with the fruits attached .
The other species are much more rare , though we are gradually obtaining a knowledge of their anatomy .
It will be necessary , however , in the coming year to gather more material and to have many more blocks sliced and etched , in the hope that they may give us the connecting links .
We think , principally from a study of the association of the forms in each block , that we can with great probability correlate four other types of fruits with the vegetative parts to which they belong , but this correlation would have much greater weight if we could exhibit and photograph the actual attachment of the fruit to the branch , and of the branch to the stem , as can be done perfectly in the type species of our new genus .
Clavator , Reid et Groves { gen .
nov .
) .
Caulis simplex , corticatus ; axis e cellulis alternatim elongatis et abbreviatis compositus ; cortex circa illas tubulosus , circa has fusiformiter tumidus , hoc modo caulem in internodia et nodos quasi dividens ; capite tumido turbinato terminatus .
Internodia e tubo centrali pariete crassa instructa , et cortice semper 12 tubulorum parvorum cylindricorum contiguorum inter se sequalium composita , omnia spatiis subeequalibus interjectis fasciculos symmetricos ( rosellas ) processuum emittentia .
Bosellarum processus plus minusve producti , clavati , apice rotundati , quoquoversus divergentes , exteriores ad tubos corti-cales adnati , processus quisque poro basali cum part interiore tubi corticalis conjunctus , poris processuum centralium solitariorum vel plurium plerumque majoribus quam processuum exteriorum .
Nodorum capitumque structura admodum permutata , corticis tubi alternantes sex medium versus cito 254 Messrs. C. Reid and J. Groves .
ampliati , septis crassis in cellulas distinctas eo breviores quo latiores divisi , sex sensim angustati , extrinsecus propulsi , ideoque in sulcis inter tubos majores positi , omnes rosellas more internodiorum ferentes , majores prseterea ramulos singulos verticillatim dispositos emittentes .
Hamuli e cellula una tubulari et nonnullis abrupto expansis nodiformibus verticilla singula sex rosellarum more tuborum corticalium emittentibus constantes .
Fructus solitarii , bini vel terni , uno latere ( verisimiliter superiore ) ramuli e rosellte centro ( ?
) orti , oogonia singula quasi bracteata referentes .
Oogonium com-positum ex ovo et ex cellulis 5 elongatis spiraliter tortis , iis Characearum recentium similibus , sed utriculo cireumdatum e cellulis bracteiformibus elongatis adnatis effecto vel iis incluso .
ignota .
The principal characteristics of the genus appear to be\#151 ; 1 .
The remarkable club-like nodes of the stem , from which we derive the name .
2 .
The production on the stem and branchlets of clusters of small clavate processes .
3 .
The presence of a utricle enclosing the oogonium .
The club-like nodes of the stem are of two kinds .
The first , which we have styled " spindles " ( Plate 8 , fig. 13 ) , taper at each end into the normal stem .
Although we have not found two of the spindles connected , we conclude , from the fact that they are the more numerous , that each stem produced two or more of them .
The second kind , which we have styled " heads " ( fig. 5 ) , are terminal and are turbinate , tapering below , and more or less flattened above .
The normal stem forming the internodes is composed of a single thick-walled tube , surrounded by twelve equal contiguous sheathing tubes , or series of cells ( figs. 9 and 10 ) , resembling the so-called " cortex " of existing Charese , except that the number is apparently constant .
At the ends of the spindles and at the base of the heads a marked change takes place in the sheathing tubes , six alternate tubes rapidly enlarging and becoming broken up by well-marked transverse septa into separate cells , which diminish in length as they increase in diameter , the other six tubes gradually diminishing in diameter and being forced outwards , so that instead of , as in the internodes , lying side by side with the alternate tubes , they occupy the furrows between their outer curves ( figs. 11 and 12 ) .
The clusters of small clavate processes , which we have styled " rosettes , " are produced at more or less regular intervals on the sheathing tubes of the stem , both on the nodes and internodes ; they are symmetrical , the processes diverging in all directions , rosette fashion , the outer being adnate to the sheathing tube from which they originate .
With the interior of the tube Preliminary Report on the Characeae .
255 each process is connected by a pore at the base , the central one or more of the pores being larger than the lateral ; the processes are more or less elongated , swelling upwards , and are round-ended .
Though occupying the same position , these processes are evidently not analogous to the spine-cells of living Charete , as they are not ..separate cells .
The head gives rise to a whorl of six branchlets , which are produced from the broadest part .
Similar whorls occur on some ( probably the upper ) spindles .
The branchlets ( fig. 3 ) , which are spreading or ascending , are composed of a single tube , which becomes suddenly swollen at more or less regular intervals , producing whorls of six clusters of processes , somewhat resembling the rosettes of the sheathing tubes of the stem .
The fruits are produced singly , or two or three together , on one , probably the upper , side of the branchlets , taking rise from pores at the centre ( ?
) of the rosettes .
The fruit consists of an oogonium with five spiral enveloping cells , as in existing Characeae , but enclosed in a utricle formed or surrounded by a number of elongated adnate processes , somewhat similar to the bract-cells of living species of Charece , converging at the tips and nearly closing in the utricle .
Little more than the calcified portion of these bract-like processes adnate to the fruit is preserved ( see figs. 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 ) .
Up to the present we have not found any trace of the antheridia .
We have no indication as to the stature of the plant , having found short portions only of the stem , and we have not made out any trace of a rooting system .
The foregoing description is drawn up from the remains of what is evidently the commonest species , but we have found others which , though different in some respects , belong apparently to the same type .
In 1891 , Saporta , in his 'Plantes Jurassiques , '* described and figured as Chara fruits , under the name of C. Maillardi , some grooved pyriform bodies , which may be the utricles of a species of this genus .
The production of the " rosettes " is apparently a character shared by at least one of the other genera .
The constant number of the branchlets ( six ) is probably common to all the Characese of these Purbeck beds , as well as the fixed number ( twelve ) of the sheathing tubes of the stem , when present .
Among the other genera is one evidently belonging to the Nitellese , having forked branchlets .
This is apparently the first satisfactory instance of a * 1 Paleontolog .
Fran^ , ' ser. 2 , Veg6t .
IY , p. 498 , tab .
298 bis , figs. 6 and 7 ( 1891 ) .
Preliminary Report on the Purbeck Characese .
representative of this section being found in a fossil state .
It is silicified not preserved in limestone .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Oogonium in utricle .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Longitudinal sections of two fruits .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Longitudinal section of part of branchlet , showing rosettes and a fruit attached .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Three fruits attached to branchlet , showing exterior of utricles .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Head , an elongated form , fractured obliquely .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Transverse section of fruit , showing portions of adnate bract-processes .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Utricle seen from above , with section of apex .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Longitudinal section of fruit and part of branchlet ( silicified ) .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Transverse section of internode of stem , hear thickened node , showing slight difference in size of sheathing tubes .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Two portions of stems showing rosettes .
Figs. 11 and 12.\#151 ; Transverse sections of spindles or heads , showdng very unequal diameters of sheathing cells , and the bases of some branchlets .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; Longitudinal section of spindle , showing base of ascending branch .
Clavator , n.g.

