[ 259 ] VIII .
A Method for the Investigation of Fossils by Serial Sections .
By W. J. Sollas , D. Sc. , LL. I ) .
, F.R.S. , Professor Geology and in the University of Oxford .
Received May 19 , \#151 ; Read June 11 , 1903 .
Palaeontologists might perhaps he excused if* they regarded with a certain degree of envy the student of* recent organisms , who in addition to other facilities , has at his command that powerful method of research , investigation by means of serial sections .
In the case of* many important fossils not a half , frequently not a tenth , of the information they could afford , if* accessible to this method , has at present been extracted from them .
This is the more to be regretted since it is to these ancient forms of life that we must turn for the surest guidance in phylogeny .
Serial sections , such as are provided by thin transparent slices are never likely to be very generally employed by the Palaeontologist , since they cannot by any known process be obtained at closer intervals than one millimetre or more .
Thus it is only when the size of the fossil is so great as to render this interval negligible , that serial thin slices can serve their real purpose .
Fortunately the same objection does not apply to opaque sections , such as may he obtained by grinding away the substance of an object ; these can be prepared at any desired degree of proximity .
Consequently whenever the substance of a fossil , viewed by reflected light , offers a sufficient optical contrast to the enclosing matrix , the method of* serial sections may he applied to it .
In this matter the Palaeontologist has , therefore , no cause for envy ; a means for obtaining a deeper insight into the objects of* his study lies ready to hand .
The only difficulties are the practical ; the object to be studied after having been ground through a known interval , must be removed from the grinding apparatus for examination , and its form recorded by drawing or photography ; on replacing it in the apparatus to be ground through a second interval , it must be attached in such a manner that its polished face is returned to precisely the same plane that it occupied before removal .
While attempting to devise a machine to accomplish this , 1 applied for assistance to my friend and colleague Mr. Jervis-Smith , Header of Mechanics in the University , who at once interested himself in the matter in the kindest way , and solved the problem by designing the apparatus which is represented in figs. 1 and 2 , and described by Mr. Jervis-Smith as follows:\#151 ; " Two planed pillars MM , fig. 1 , forming parts of one casting , are supported on a base B. The pillars carry a transverse slide and ( 221 .
) 2 L 2 14.11.03 .
carriage moving on it , driven by a screw and handle ; the transverse slide may be adjusted to any required height from the grinding disc D , by means of screws attached to its back .
A plate or chuck E carries the specimen ; this plate is attached to a vertical rod , which can be raised or lowered by means of a micrometer screw F , the end of the screw acting as a stop , when the desired amount of the specimen has been removed by the grinding disc D. The wash from the disc is caught in a circular trough A , to which a tube is attached to take away the liquid used in grinding .
" The disc D ( the diameter of which is 4 inches ) is rotated by means of a cord Fig. 1 .
passing partly round the wheels K , H , and entirely round the wheel G. By means of this arrangement of the pulley-wheels the tension of the driving band or cord is maintained between the wheels K and H without the axle of the central wheel being subjected to injurious pressure .
The grinding disc is of thick plate-glass , carried on a gun-metal disc attached to the axle of the central wheel .
In the process of grinding the disc D is fed with water containing the finest emery flour in suspension .
The axle of the wheel K , which is rotated by the handle O , is placed at a small angle with respect to the axle of the wheel H ; this prevents the driving cord from rubbing against itself .
The slack of the driving cord is taken up by means of the screw N. " It may be added that the object is restored to its original position , after removal THE INVESTIGATION OF FOSSILS SERIAL SECTIONS .
from the machine , by the following device .
The chuck E , which carries the object , is provided with a cylindrical neck which fits into the hollow cylinder P , against which it is stopped by a flange .
A steel rod passes through the axis of P and screws into the neck of the chuck , it is provided with a hexagonal head H , which stops it against the top of P ; on turning this head by a spanner the chuck is tightened against P , and thus can always be returned to the same position .
On bringing the chuck with its attached object over the grinding disc the polished face of the latter will be Fig. 2 .
found , if no other adjustments have been made , to rest on the surface of the grinding disc as it did before its removal .
A machine was constructed for me from Mr. Jervis Smith 's drawings by Mr. R. W. Munro , of King 's Cross Road .
Its cost was defrayed by a grant from the Government Fund at the disposal of the Royal Society .
The machine has been in almost constant use in my laboratory for the past three years , and its performance lias more than satisfied my expectations .
It can be trusted to give a series of sections separated by a constant interval of 0*025 millim. No attempt has been made to obtain closer sections than this ; but it greater proximity were required there can be no doubt it could be obtained .
As each section is prepared it is drawn with the aid of a camera lucida , or photographed under a microscope .
Photography lias many advantages over drawing , particularly as affording a record which may be trusted in questions of dispute , and this is all the more necessary , as the fossil is necessarily destroyed in the process of grinding .
Photography is , however , expensive , and much more laborious than tracing with a camera .
From a series of sections the fossil may be reconstructed by any of the usual methods ; cutting out from thin sheets of bees-wax and superposing gives excellent results ; in this way reconstructions have been prepared of several important fossils of which the structure was imperfectly known ; these include two species of a Graptolite ( Monograptus ) , an Ophiurid of Ludlow age ( from the Lias , and Palwospondylus gunni , a problematical Fish from the Old Red Sandstone .
These were exhibited at the British Association meeting in Glasgow ( 1901 ) , and at a Conversazione of the Royal Society ( 1902 ) .
It may perhaps prove useful if a short account is added of some of the details of the method .
As regards the affixing of the object to the chuck of the grinding machine , this is simply accomplished by cement ; that which we use is a black wax , such as is used by instrument-makers , which melts at a low temperature , and secures the object firmly .
Care should be taken that the cement runs well round the edges of the object ; to insure this a strip of glass ( a microscope-slide answers perfectly well ) should be heated in the flame of a Bunsen burner and used to push the wax towards the object already cemented on ; the wax melts in front of the glass , and on reaching the object runs up its sides by surface tension .
There is not the slightest danger of the object coming loose after this treatment .
A matter of the first importance is to provide some fixed marks or registration lines , by which the relative position of the successive sections may be determined .
For this purpose the fragment of rock containing the fossil should be ground into the form of a parallelopipedon , small enough for the sides or at least one corner to fall within the field of the microscope , or the limits of the photographic plate .
The grinding machine may be used for this purpose , its plate glass disc being replaced by one of fine emery ; the fragment of rock is cemented on to the chuck , fossil side upwards , and ground away to a plane surface ; it is then detached by warming the chuck in the flame of a Bunsen , and cemented on to a brass plate specially made for the purpose , this is " L " shaped in transverse section and presents two plane surfaces at right angles to each other ; the ground surface of the object is attached to one of these , and the other is cemented to the chuck .
On grinding down a second face is now obtained at right angles to the first .
By repeating the operation with the object readjusted , a sufficient number of times , a parallelopipedon , exact enough for all j\gt ; ractical purposes , is obtained .
In cases where the object is too large for this THE INVESTIGATION OF FOSSILS BY SERIAL SECTIONS .
treatment , three holes may be drilled in it at right angles to its surface by a hard steel bit , and into these thin cylinders of graphite , such as are used in black-lead pencils , may be inserted and fixed by some kind of cement .
After this preparation ' the fossil will require to be thoroughly cleaned , which is best effected by placing it in benzole , and leaving it to stand till all trace of the dark cement has been removed .
It is then dried by warming over a flame .
It is now necessary completely to conceal the exposed surface of the fossil in a layer of some opaque substance , so that both may be afterwards ground away together .
Unless this is done , sections with clear outlines will not be obtained , for the ground surface will be confused with the natural surface of the fossil .
After various trials we have adopted red sealing-wax for this purpose ; it must be of the best quality , inferior kinds are worse than useless .
It grinds away smoothly and readily , but is liable to form " smears , " unless excess of water is kept flowing over the grinding wheel while rotating .
It accurately adapts itself to all inequalities of the object , the outlines of which it defines in the sharpest possible manner .
Its melting point is above that of the cement used for attachment , so that it can be applied to the object before this is affixed to the chuck .
The object should be warmed and the wax melted in the ordinary way dropped upon it , a strip of glass , heated in a Bunsen flame , should then be applied to smooth out the melted layer and to reduce it to the least possible thickness , consistent with complete concealment of the object .
A thin layer of wax should also be run round the sides of the parallelopipedon when the object has been reduced to this form , so as to insure the sharp definition of their outlines when exposed by grinding .
The object is now ready for grinding , it is attached to the chuck , which is then screwed into its support and brought over the grinding wheel .
At first the sealing-wax covering alone is ground away , and the chuck must be removed from the machine and the ground surface examined under a microscope at regular intervals , as each fortieth of a millimetre is removed , until the first section of the fossil is exposed .
This and all succeeding sections must then be drawn or photographed .
To increase the definition of the section , the ground surface should be covered with a drop of water , to which glycerine may be added to retard evaporation , and a cover-glass superposed .
In photographing , Welsbach burners are used for illumination ; the time of exposure will vary with the optical character of the object and the matrix in which it is embedded , as well as , of course , with the magnification of the image and the nature of the sensitive plate .
There is no advantage in using slow plates , and we prefer the fastest to be obtained .
With an Edward 's isochromatic instantaneous plate , and a magnification of 20 diameters , a good photograph may be obtained in 5 minutes , when there is great contrast in actinic effect between the object and the matrix ; with less contrast the exposure may be increased up to half an hour .
If longer is required the case is hopeless .
Our exposures have usually taken from 10 to 20 minutes .
The precaution should always he taken not to grind a fresh section till the photograph of the previous one has been developed and found satisfactory .
The negatives should be numbered in order as they are obtained , and stored with a note of the intervals they represent and the magnification employed .
As regards printing from the negatives , definition is all important , and this is best obtained with silver paper , which should be " squeegeed " down .
From the paper prints the outlines of the sections may be traced on to transparent paper ; if they do not show through clearly enough , the prints and paper may be placed over a sheet of glass through which the light is directed , or the outlines may be reinforced by tracing an inked line round them , or if this fails , by substituting a 5-per-cent , solution of nitric acid for ink ; this destroys the colour of the print and enables us to margin the outlines of the section with a white band .
In reconstructing the form of the fossil in wax , the usual methods are employed ; a thin sheet of bees-wax of known thickness is placed over the tracing , and the outlines of the section followed by a finely pointed scalpel .
The tracing paper should rest on a hard surface during this operation ; a sheet of glass answers every purpose .
By superposing the sections cut out in wax , in their natural order , and in their true relative positions , which are determined by the registration lines already referred to , a precise representation of the original object is obtained .
Most of our sections have been taken at intervals of one-fortieth of a millimetre , and photographed under a magnification of 20 diameters , hence the thickness of the wax sheets used in reconstruction has been approximately 0'5 millim. This is a very convenient thickness , as it allows the outline of the tracing to be easily seen through .
We have tried various methods of causing the successive wax sections to cohere ; the simplest is to pass a hot needle through the sheet to be attached into those beneath it , the melted wax fills the interspace by surface tension , and by instantly applying the pressure of a finger the sheets are brought into more intimate contact .
A much more elegant plan , since it leaves no unsightly marks on the model , is to fit a thin shred of wax into the angles where the edge of one sheet meets the surface of another , fie .
, along the contour lines , and then to run a hot needle along this , applying pressure immediately afterwards .
The application of pressure is essential if true proportions are to he preserved in the model , the thickness of which must always be measured not merely by the sum of the thickness of the wax sheets , but by this plus the sum of the thickness of the interspaces between them .
With every precaution these cannot wholly be annihilated , and consequently true proportions cannot be exactly maintained .
As a detail apparently trifling , but of great importance , both for insuring exactitude and facilitating the work of superposition , it may be added that in cases where the section presents isolated parts , these should be brought into connection with the rest by leaving strips of wax between them ; economy in the use of these THE INVESTIGATION OF FOSSILS BY SERIAL SECTIONS .
ties is misplaced , at least three should connect every isolated part with various points of the remainder ; after the sheet is superposed and attached , the ties can easily be removed by a hot needle .
Much of the success of preparing a good model depends on keeping all the parts of the sections well tied together .
No doubt this is all well known to professional biologists , hut we have found information very difficult to obtain , and have had to discover it for ourselves by the method of trial and error .
In building up a wax model some support is frequently required by the part already completed before further sections can be added .
A very simple and efficient means of providing this is as follows : A quantity of Swedish filter-paper is placed in a basin of water and beaten up into a pulp ; the pulp is then placed on the surface of the model to be supported ; to prevent it entering too deeply into the recesses of the model , the latter may be first covered with very thin tissue-paper .
When the model is completely buried in the pulp , excess of water may be removed by blotting-paper , the rest is allowed to pass off by evaporation ; about 24 hours are required to complete the process of drying .
In this way very light , soft and consistent supports are obtained .
The wax models may be permanently mounted by the same method .
VOL. CXCVI.\#151 ; B.

