190 Mr. W. Heap .
On Germinal Layers [ Dec. 22 quantity in charging , and for tension during discharge .
Twenty such boxes , one foot square , internal measurement , will give in series a battery of 500 pairs of one foot square plates .
It will be seen from the foregoing that this method of conserving energy has a wide field before it , and as it will benefit fellow-workers in science , placing in their hands a means of experimenting with powerful electric currents , I give it without reservation , freely and untrammelled by patent rights , for their use .
December 22 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Sir William George Granville Venables Vernon Harcourt , Knt. , was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Germinal Layers and Early Development of the Mole .
" By Walter Heape .
Communicated by F. M. Balfour , F.R.S. Received November 30 , 1881 .
The following is a note on some investigations which I have been carrying on by the kindness and with the help of Mr. Balfour , in the Morphological Laboratory , Cambridge , upon the origin and formation of the germinal layers in mammals , more especially in the mole ( Talpa Europea ) .
I hope shortly to be able to give a more complete account .
In the communication the following subjects are dealt with:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The origin of the epiblast .
( 2 .
) The mode of development of the mesohlast .
( 3 .
) The structure of the neurenteric canal .
( 4 .
) The relations of the mesoblast and the hypoblast to the notochord .
Recent investigations have left the earlier phases of mammalian development in some confusion , it may therefore be advisable briefly to mention the more important views which are entertained on this subject .
Professor Edward van Beneden , in a paper entitled " La formation des feuillets chez de Lapin " ( " Archives de Biologie , " vol. i , Part 1 , and Early Development of the Mole .
191 1880 ) , gives an account of the segmentation of the ovum of that animal , and states that during segmentation a differentiation of the segmentation spheres into two layers is established , the one of which grows over and encloses the other , giving rise in this manner to what Van Beneden calls a metagastrula .
The outer of these two layers he terms ectoderm and the inner entoderm , names which seem to me , for reasons which will appear in the sequel , to be misleading , and for which I propose to substitute the terms outer and inner layers respectively .
Subsequently , according to Van Beneden , a cavity , the blastodermic cavity , is developed between the outer and inner layers of cells ; the cells of the former layer become flattened and multiply , and form the wall of the so-called blastodermic vesicle ; at the same time the blastodermic cavity is enlarged , while the inner layer remains as a rounded mass of cells attached to the wall of the vesicle over a small area known as the embryonic area .
Van Beneden considers that the outer layer of cells forms the permanent epiblast , both of the embryonic area and of the blastodermic vesicle , while the inner mass of cells breaks up into two layers , a lower single layer of flattened cells , the hypoblast , and a layer of cells which he calls the mesoblast , lying between the hypoblast and the epiblast of the embryonic area .
Professor Kolliker , on the other hand , writing in the " Zoologischer Anzeiger " ( Nos. 61 and 62 , vol. iii , 1880 ) , " Die Entwicklung der Keimblatter des Kaninchens , " does not dispute the presence of Van Benedenrs epiblast , hypoblast , and mesoblast , in the stage of development described above , but states his agreement with an earlier view of Rauber , that in the region of the embryo the outer of these layers disappears , while the whole of the middle layer becomes converted into the epiblast of the embryonic area ; the epiblast of the remainder of the vesicle , however , he considers is formed from part of the original outer layer of cells .
The mesoblast owes its origin , in his opinion , wholly to a budding from the epiblast of the primitive streak .
Professor Lieberkuhn published in Marburg , in 1879 , in a paper " Ueber die Keimblatter der Saugethiere , " the results of his researches upon the dog and mole , in which he states that the epiblast ol the embryonic area is derived from the greater part of the primitive inner mass of cells ( that portion in fact forming Van Beneden 's mesoblast ) , together with the part of the original outer layer of cells which overlays the inner mass ; the hypoblast he derives from the inner mass of cells , while the mesoblast he believes to be formed from both epiblast and hypoblast , in the region of the primitive streak .
I myself have been fortunate enough to secure a fairly complete series of mole embryos ranging from an early appearance of the blastodermic cavity until the formation of the medullary groove ; an examiMr .
W. Heap .
On Germinal Layers [ Dec. 22 , nation of which leads me , in the main , to agree with Lieberkiihn 's account of the development of the embryonic layers of that animal .
I have not been able to follow completely the course of segmentation , nor have I been able to trace a differentiation of the segments into two layers , an outer and an inner , though there appears to be no doubt , on account of the arrangement of the spheres in a somewhat later stage , that Man Beneden s description of a fully segmented ovum is substantially correct .
The earliest specimen of an ovum in my possession after the completion of segmentation is similar to that figured in Van Beneden 's paper ( loc. cit. ' ) , Plate IV , fig. 6 , III , and in Lieberkuhn 's paper ( loc. cit. ' ) , fig. 1 .
The ovum consists of an outer layer and an inner mass of cells , between and partly separating which is a cavity .
The outer layer has the form of a sphere of somewhat flattened cells , while the inner mass is composed of irregularly polygonal cells ; these two are attached together for a small area , elsewhere they are separated by a cavity , the blastodermic cavity , which is seen in optical section as a crescentshaped space partially surrounding the inner mass of cells .
The diameter of this ovum measures 'll millim. , and that of the inner mass of cells '06 millim. A thick zona invests the ovum .
Upon the formation of the blastodermic cavity , the ovum may be called the blastodermic vesicle .
The vesicle becomes enlarged , and I am inclined to believe , that during the enlargement , the cells of the inner mass assist in the formation of the outer wall of the vesicle , since in various vesicles of about 2 , 25 , 3 , '38 millim. diameter , the diameter of the inner mass , which is of an approximately spherical shape , is less , being respectively 04 , '04 , '04 , -05 millim. , than in the youngest vesicle , measuring as stated above , 'll millim. in which the inner mass is *06 millim. diameter .
Sections through a vesicle measuring -25 millim. diameter ( the inner mass measuring about '04 millim. ) show the outer layer to be composed of greatly flattened cells closely applied to the zona , which is now much thinner , owing to the expansion of the vesicle , while the inner mass in the form of a solid mass of irregularly rounded cells is attached to the outer layer for a small circular region , which I shall speak of as the embryonic area .
As the vesicle enlarges , the inuer mass of cells slightly flattens out and widens at the same time , so that the embryonic area becomes enlarged .
In a vesicle '44 millim. diameter , the inner mass of cells is seen to be commencing to divide into two layers , and in a vesicle '57 millim. in diameter , in which the inner mass is '08 millim. in diameter , this division is completed , and a layer composed of a single row of 1881 .
] and Early Development of the Mole .
193 slightly flattened cells is separated off from and underlies the main portion of the inner mass of cells ; this layer is the hypoblast .
The main portion of the inner mass of cells is undergoing at the same time a change in structure , inasmuch as some of the polygonal or rounded cells of which it has hitherto been composed now become elongated and columnar .
The hypoblast in an oval blastodermic vesicle of about *88 millim. by *81 millim. , is still formed of slightly flattened cells beneath the embryonic area , but it has grown and extended beyond that area , so that its outer part lies beneath and in close contact with the outer layer of the blastodermic vesicle ; the cells of this portion of the hypoblast are wide and much flattened , and their nuclei stain deeply with hsematoxylin .
A cavity appears about this stage of development in the region of the embryonic area between the flattened outer layer and the inner mass , the cells of the latter having now largely become columnar .
In the vesicle last mentioned ( *88 millim. by '81 millim. ) , nearly the whole of the inner mass has become transformed from a rounded mass of polygonal cells into a concave plate of columnar cells , forming the floor of a cavity which is roofed over by the cells of the outer layer of the blastodermic vesicle .
In this cavity a few cells are placed , which are connected with the outer layer or inner mass , or with both of these , by means of protoplasmic processes ; I believe these cells to be cells of the inner mass which have not yet become columnar .
Lieberkiihn states that some of the cells of the inner mass grow round and above the cavity just described , which thus comes to lie within the inner mass .
The specimens from which he derives his opinion however , were , I believe , preserved in Muller 's fluid .
I have myself seen a similar apparent arrangement in such preparations , which upon comparison with sections of vesicles of similar ages prepared in picric acid , appear to me to bear a different interpretation , the layer of cells above the cavity being formed of flat outer layer cells with a few more or less isolated cells of the inner mass .
In a vesicle of about *97 millim. diameter , the inner mass of cells has still the form of a concave plate composed of two or three layers of for the most part columnar cells : the flattened cells of the outer layer remain , as in the previously described specimen , closely attached to the zona , and the cells lying in the cavity are fewer , while some of them appear to have been drawn on to the concave plate and transformed into columnar cells .
Cells in a transition stage may be seen on the surface of the plate .
At a later stage the concave plate extends itself , the curvature becoming less , and eventually approaches to and finally , comes into contact with the flat cells forming that portion of the wall of the vesicle which in the previously described specimens lay above the 194 Mr. W. Heap .
On the Germinal Layers [ Dec. 22 , plate ; the flattened cells of this part soon become columnar , and the fusion between them and the plate below becomes complete .
Somewhat prior to this stage , the edges of the plate become continuous with the outer layer of the wall of the vesicle beyond the region of the embryonic area .
Thus , the greater part of the inner mass of cells , as Lieberkuhn .correctly states , combines in the form of a plate of more or less columnar cells with that part of the flat outer layer of cells which immediately .overlies it , to form a plate of columnar cells two and three rows deep ; this plate is the epiblast plate of the embryonic area , the remainder of the outer layer of cells forming the epiblastic wall of the blastodermic vesicle .
The #portion of the inner mass of cells which was separated off from the main mass as the hypoblast still forms only a single row of somewhat rounded cells , the central part of which underlies the embryonic area , while the peripheral part continually extends as a layer of flattened cells along the inner aspect of the epiblastic wall of the remainder of the blastodermic vesicle .
In concluding this portion of my subject I may add , in support of what I believe in harmony with Lieberkuhn to be the origin of the true epiblast of the embryonic area in the mole , that in the course of my work on this subject , carried on since the investigations of Mr. Balfour and myself , published in the second vdlume of Mr. Balfour 's Comparative Embryology , " I have obtained from an embryo rabbit of six days four hours old , sections which appear to me conclusively to confirm the results at which we before arrived , namely , that the .epiblast plate of the embryonic area is derived ( as in the mole ) conjointly from the at first flattened cells of the primitive outer layer ( called by Rauber and Kolliker " Deckzellen , " and stated by those \#166 ; observers to disappear from the embryonic area ) , and from , the larger portion of the primitive inner mass of cells ( held by Van Beneden to be the true mesoblast , and stated by Kolliker alone to form the .epiblast plate ) .
In the sections of this embryo the cells of the already described primitive outer layer are seen in a transition stage , being wedge-shaped and prolonged in between the cells of the inner cmass .
At the stage of growth now arrived at the blastodermic vesicle .may be considered to consist of an embryonic and a non-embryonic portion .
A surface view shows the embryonic area to be in the form of a more or less circular opaque disk .
The wall of the vesicle consists of a two-layered and a single-layered portion ; the latter , formed of epiblast , alone comprises the portion of the wall opposite to the .embryonic area , while the former , consisting of epiblast and hypoblast , forms the embryonic area and the part of the vesicle immediately adjoining it .
j and Early Development of the Mole .
In the course of further growth the vesicle greatly enlarges , and the zona becomes much attenuated , affording but little support to the now also exceedingly thin and delicate wall of the vesicle ; it therefore becomes difficult to obtain specimens in good preservation .
In the earliest specimen of this stage which I possess the embryonic area is oval , measuring '74 by -48 millim. In a surface view a dark line or band is seen to run along the centre of the hinder third of the area .
This is the well known primitive streak ; it is narrow anteriorly , while posteriorly it becomes broader , and finally behind takes up nearly the whole breadth of the embryonic area ; it is due to the presence of a third layer of cells , the mesoblast , between the epiblast and hypoblast .
Transverse sections of this embryonic area show the major portion in front of the primitive streak to be composed ( 1 ) of a plate of epiblast formed of two or three rows of columnar cells , and ( 2 ) of a single layer of rounded hypoblast cells somewhat flattened towards the edge of the area .
Immediately in front of the primitive streak there appears , extending entirely across the area , a layer of mesoblast , which is not connected with the epiblast , but is so intimately united with the hypoblast in the middle line , that the two layers cannot there be clearly distinguished , though towards the periphery of the area they are quite distinct .
A section taken through the anterior end of the primitive streak discovers a narrow band of epiblast cells in the middle line , giving rise by budding to a layer of mesoblast which extends laterally to the edge of the area , and in each section following ( i.e. , towards the hind end of the primitive streak ) the budding epiblast appears continually as a widei band until the greater part of the whole breadth of the epiblast plate is concerned in the production of raesoblast .
A pit is seen in the epiblast almost at the front end of the primitive streak , and at this point a neurenteric canal will eventually be formed ; this structuie , hitherto overlooked in mammalian embryos , is identical with the neurenteric canal found in other types of Vertebrata .
The primitive streak grows relatively longer compared with tin increase in size of the embryonic area , until in a vesicle , in which the latter measures about '84 by '71 millim. , the primitive streak reaches along it fully three parts of its length .
It is very narrow in front , while behind it occupies the whole breadth of the embryonic area .
In sections of the region in front of the primitive streak theie is present a layer of cells several rows thick immediately underlying the epiblast plate .
In the seven anterior sections this layer is seen beneath the epiblast , as amass which cannot be resolved into hypoblast and mesoblast ; for about three following sections , placed immediately in front of the primitive streak , the layer is clearly composed of ( 1 ) a layer of flattened hypoblast below , and ( 2 ) a layer of mesoblast above .
The mesoblast in the axial line is thickened in the last two of these Mr. W. Heap .
On Germinal Layers [ Dec. 22 , sections , and posteriorly joins the anterior wall of the neurenteric canal , while the hypoblast extends as a distinct layer below the anterior end of the primitive streak .
It appears highly probable that the whole layer in the seven sections at the front end of the embryonic area , is the hypoblast originally present there engaged in the act of budding off mesoblast , as Balfour believes to be the case with regard to a similarly situated portion of the hypoblast in the chick ( " Comparative Embryology , " vol. ii , p. 129 etseq .
) .
In the three following sections where distinct layers of mesoblast and hypoblast are found , the whole of the mesoblast , with the exception of the cells forming the central thickening in the second and third sections , has , I believe , a similar origin , and may be distinguished by the form and appearance of its cells from the mesoblast of the primitive streak .
The mesoblast derived from the hypoblast may be called hypoblastic mesoblast ; it joins the mesoblast of the primitive streak as the latter grows forward , and the two become indistinguishable .
The primitive streak presents in section a similar appearance to that of the embryo last described ; a groove\#151 ; the primitive groove\#151 ; is , however , present along its upper surface .
The position of the future neurenteric canal is indicated by a pit in theepiblast as in the specimen described above .
At a slightly later stage the embryonic area being IT7 by '81 milhm .
, the condition of the layers is much the same .
A neurenteric canal now perforates the whole thickness of the blastoderm at the front end of the primitive groove .
The upper opening of this canal , which is longer than the lower opening , has the appearance of a slit with its anterior wall sloping obliquely backwards ; this wall is continuous with the thickening of mesoblast cells in the axial line which I described in the last stage .
The first traces of the amnion are now visible , as a fold of the epibla\amp ; t round the whole circumference of the embryonic area ; at the posterior end the folds of the two sides meet to form a hood , covering the hinder part of the area , but anteriorly I have been unable to determine the extent of their growth .
In the surface view of an embryonic area measuring '97 by *79 millim. in diameter , a band of a lighter shade than the remainder is to be seen in the front part of the long axis of the area , its posterior end adjoining the anterior end of the primitive streak ; the latter occupies the hinder third of th^ area , and where it joins the light-coloured band a pit , the upper opening of the neurenteric canal , is distinctly to be seen surrounded by a dark rim .
In transverse section the light-coloured band is seen to be caused by a diminution in thickness of the epiblast plate and of the mesoblast in the middle line .
The epiblast of this region is bent inwards to form a groove , the medullary groove ; it is wide and shallow through- 1881 ] em\lt ; f Early Development of the Mole .
197 out , and the cells forming it are not more than two rows deep , while the remainder of the epiblast plate , except at the extreme edge , is three cells deep .
Anterior to the medullary groove a continuous layer hardly ditter-entiated into mesoblast and hypoblast underlies the epiblast plate .
In the region of the medullary groove an axial strip of the cells underlying the epiblast exhibits no division into hypoblast and mesoblast ; this portion , though partially separated from the lateral masses of mesoblast , is still connected with them however on each side by a narrow neck of cells , and is also directly continuous laterally with the hypoblast .
The lateral hypoblast is quite distinct from the superjacent lateral masses of mesoblast .
The axial strip of cells underlying the medullary groove ( thus shown to be continuous with both the mesoblast and the hypoblast ) may be regarded as the commencing notochord .
Tho neurenteric canal docs not any longer perforate the blastoderm , its upper part alone remaining , which is surrounded by a thick mass of mesoblast , causing the dark rim seen in the surface view round the pit .
Its anterior wall is connected with the axial mass of cells underlying the medullary groove , while its hind wall forms the front end of the primitive streak .
The surface view of a somewhat older specimen , 1*5 millims. by *81 millim. diameter , shows the medullary groove relatively much longer and more clearly defined .
Anteriorly it reaches near to the edge of the embryonic area .
In section it is seen to be shallow at each end , but is much deeper and narrower towards the middle of the embryonic area .
Its walls , at the anterior end , are but slightly less thick than the remainder of the epiblast plate , but in the deeper part of the groove become considerably thinner .
^There the groove is deepest the notochord and adjacent parts form a well-marked projection into the blastodermic cavity beneath .
The rudimentary notochord has now extended beyond the anterior end of the medullary groove , and its relations to the adjacent layers are , for the most part , the same as in the previously described specimen .
In front of the medullary groove it is composed of a single row of somewhat columnar cells , continuous laterally writh both mesoblast and hypoblast ; below the anterior more shallow part of the medullary groove similar relations exist , towards its middle and deeper part however , where the lateral mesoblast is commencing to form protovertebrae , the notochordal cells , still in the form of a single row , are connected solely with the lateral plates of hypoblast , while further backwards , wher^ the medullary groove becomes again more shallow , the cells of the notochord become more than one row deep , and are again continuous both with the lateral mesoblast and hypoblast .
The notochord , 198 On the Germinal Layer , of the Mole .
[ Dec. 22 , continually thickening towards its hinder extremity , terminates by fusing with the anterior wall of the neurenteric canal .
The latter structure is now open above on the floor of the posterior end of the medullary groove , and extends downwards into the cells beneath , though it no longer perforates the hypoblast , which is , however , somewhat involuted , and indistinguishably fused with the mesoblast in the median line .
Briefly to recapitulate , I have attempted to show :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The epiblast of the blastodermic vesicle owes its origin as well to the inner mass of segmentation spheres as to the outer layer of segments .
It appears to originate in two ways : ( a. ) In an early stage of development ( in the mole ) probably by the cells of the inner mass being directly transformed into part of the wall of the blastodermic vesicle .
( \amp ; .
) In a later stage ( mole and rabbit ) by the transformation of the rounded cells of the inner mass into a plate of columnar cells , which joins the part of the outer layer lying immediately above it to form the epiblast plate of the embryonic area .
( 2 .
) The mesoblast in the mole is formed in two portions :\#151 ; ( a. ) A larger portion which has its origin in the primitive streak .
( 6 .
) A smaller portion which is derived from the hypoblast situated in front of the primitive streak .
I have been unable to distinguish where the latter , or hypoblastic mesoblast , comes into contact with the mesoblast of the primitive streak , and what part these respective layers take in the future development of the embryo .
( 3 .
) A neurenteric canal is present in the mole similar to that formed in other types of Yertebrata , first appearing as a pit at the anterior end of the primitive streak , while in later stages it perforates the floor of the hinder end of the medullary groove .
I may here add that I have also found in a seven days ' rabbit embryo a rudimentary neurenteric canal in the form of a shallow pit in the epiblast at the front end of the primitive streak .
( 4 .
) The notochord is formed of an axial strip of cells , which underlies the epiblast of the medullary groove , and which either never become divided into mesoblast and hypoblast , or in which such a division , if it does take place ( as appears not impossible ) , is very soon lost .
This strip of cells is originally continuous laterally with both mesoblast and hypoblast , but as the lateral mesoblast becomes converted into definite vertebral plates the connexion is lost .
There can , I believe , be no doubt of the connexion of the lateral hypoblast and mesoblast with the notochordal cells in the mole ; in the rabbit I am inclined to believe that a similar connexion is present , but my evidence on this point is not yet conclusive .

