On the ProteidReaction of Adamkiewicz , \amp ; c. 21 extent , determinate , if we combine with the general theorem the conditions of continuity of state of the dielectric on the two sides of the aperture .
The determination is practically complete when the medium on the nearer side is the dielectric plate of a condenser , in which .electric vibrations are taking place j and the result can be applied to determine the rate of decay of the vibrations due to transference of the energy to the external dielectric , The example of a condenser , with concentric spherical conducting surfaces , the outer conducting sheet being perforated by a small circular aperture , is worked out in detail ; and the results suggest that the maintenance of the vibrations depends on the screening action of the outer conductor rather than on the largeness of the capacity of the condenser ; in fact , the vibrations of the spherical condenser are much more slowly damped when the capacity of the condenser is small than when it is large , the outer conductor and the aperture remaining the same .
On the Proteid Reaction of Adamkiewicz , with Contributions to the Chemistry of Gflyoxylic Acid .
" By F. Gowland Hopkins , M.A. , M.B. , University Lecturer in Chemical Physiology , and Sydney W. Cole , B.A. , Trinity College .
( From the Physiological Laboratories , Cambridge .
) Communicated by Dr. Langley , F.B.S. Received January 7 , \#151 ; Read February 7 , 1901 .
In 1874 Adamkiewicz* described the now familiar reaction which results in the production of a violet colour when strong sulphuric acid is added to the solution of a proteid in glacial acetic acid .
Adamkiewicz did not apparently look upon the employment of the acetic acid as introducing anything beyond a certain modification of the action of sulphuric acid .
His original communication opens with a description of the colour phenomena seen when egg-white is dissolved in strong sulphuric acid : and he begins the description of this reaction , since associated with his name , by speaking of " a special influence which the presence of glacial acetic acid has upon the colour of the sulphuric acid proteid solution .
" The view has since been generally held that the coloured product of the reaction arises entirely from the proteid molecule itself , as the result of an interaction between precursors liberated under the influence of the strong acids employed .
V. Udranszkyf believed that the colour change which occurs is , as a matter of fact , to be classed as a furfurol reaction .
It is therefore to be compared with the result of such a procedure as that of Molisch 's * ' Pfluger 's Archiv , ' 1874 , vol. 9 , p. 156 .
f ' Zeitsch .
f. physiol .
Chem. , ' 1888 , toL 12 , p. 395 .
Messrs. F. G. Hopkins and S. W. Cole .
test , in which / 3-naphthol and sulphuric acid are added to a proteid solution .
While in the latter the added naphthol is held to react with furfurol from the proteid ; in the Adamkiewicz reaction both the fur-furol and a substance capable of reacting with it are supposed to be liberated from the proteid molecule .
Such we believe is the prevalent view .
Of late years , the Adamkiewicz reaction has been much employed as giving evidence for the presence of carbohydrate groups in certain proteid derivatives , and of its absence from others .
More than one writer , * however , has referred to an element of uncertainty in the reaction , and it is easy to gather from the literature that this has been commonly observed . !
In what follows it will be shown that the mechanism of the reaction has been wholly misunderstood .
Proof will be given that the use of acetic acid introduces an extraneous and perfectly specific factor into the reaction , involving the addition of a substance quite necessary to the formation of the coloured product .
This substance , moreover , is not acetic acid itself but an impurity , which , though very generally present , is admixed in varying quantity , and is occasionally absent .
I. The Reaction due to an Impurity in Acetic Acid .
We were led to pursue the following investigation by observing that , with a specimen of acetic acid in use in this laboratory last year , it was impossible under any circumstances to obtain the Adamkiewicz reaction .
No matter what form of proteid might be employed , when its solution in this acetic acid was mixed with sulphuric acid , a yellow or brown , slightly fluorescent mixture was all that could be obtained .
No modification in the order of the procedure , or in the proportion of the two acids employed , resulted in the production of any trace of red or violet colour .
We afterwards obtained a number of specimens of acetic acid from various makers , and were surprised to find that no small proportion of these gave equally negative results ; while , of the remainder , some yielded a much more intense reaction than others , although employed under precisely similar conditions .
Either , therefore , the negative result with particular specimens was due to the presence of some impurity capable of interfering with the production of colour , or the reaction itself must be due to a substance commonly , though not universally , present as an impurity in acetic acid .
We soon obtained evidence that the latter alternative must be accepted .
For we found that whenever a specimen of glacial acetic * Cf .
Halliburton , ' Schafer 's Text Book of Physiology .
' vol. 1 , p. 47 .
f Cf .
Salkowski , 'Zeitech .
f. physiol .
Chem. , ' toI .
12 , pp. 220 , 222 .
On the ProieidReaction of , 23 acid yielding a positive result is partially crystallised by freezing , the power to yield the reaction is diminished in the crystals and increased in the mother liquor .
It is possible indeed , by repeated recrystallisa-tion , to obtain glacial acid wholly incapable of giving the reaction . .
Much more readily , however , is the reactive substance to be concentrated by distillation .
Any specimen of glacial acetic acid , if distilled , will yield the whole of any chromogenic substance it may contain in the first runnings .
After concentration to about half-bulk- moi e 01 less according to the proportion of reactive substance originally present \#151 ; the residue will yield no trace of red or violet colour when mixed with proteid and sulphuric acid ; while , on the other hand , the distillate twice or thrice fractionated yields the reaction with greatly increased intensity.* It is easy to understand , therefore , why different specimens of acetic acid obtained in the market yield the reaction with different degrees of intensity , as this will depend upon the stage at which they were collected during distillation in bulk .
It is also clear why the reaction has been looked upon by different observers as an uncertain one .
The accepted view , that the colour phenomenon is due to the interaction of two chromogenic groups , both derived from the proteid molecule under the action of the mixed sulphuric and acetic acids , is certainly erroneous .
One factor necessary to the reaction is supplied by a substance admixed with the acetic acid .
That it is in no sense a furfurol reaction is indicated by the fact that the addition of furfurol confers no power of yielding the colour with proteid upon a specimen of acetic acid previously without it ; and , on the other hand , when furfurol is added to acetic acid containing the chromogenic substance in abundance , there is equally a complete absence of the reaction upon mixing with strong sulphuric acid .
II .
Nature of the Substance responsible for the Reaction .
Our earlier attempts actually to isolate the active substance from acetic acid by fractional distillation were unsuccessful ; and , having regard to the fact that , in a reagent so familiar as acetic acid , no admixture could well have been hitherto overlooked unless the substances were present in very small amount , we determined to seek first for indiiect evidence , such as might give at least some indication as to the kind of substance we had to deal with .
To this end we set out to add to acetic acid , previously deprived by distillation of its chromogenic admixture , various compounds of typical constitution , in the hope that we might find among these some th.it would yield at least an analogous reaction .
* This applies to glacial acid ; with dilute acid of lower boiling point , concentra-tion o ?
the product by distillation is less easy .
Messrs. F. G. Hopkins and S. W. Cole .
Wholly negative results were obtained with various homologous fatty acids ; with formic , acetic , and propionic aldehydes ; with acetone , and with various ethereal acetates and other esters .
But , during this preliminary stage of our investigation , the interesting observation was made that formic acid , prepared from pure glycerin and pure oxalic acid , and used instead of acetic acid under the ordinary conditions necessary for the reaction , may yield the colour in a perfectly typical manner ; the spectroscopic absorption of the product obtained being identical with that seen when acetic acid is used .
But from the formic no less than from acetic acid , the chromogenic substance may be distilled off , appearing always in the earlier portions of the distillates , and leaving the remainder of the formic acid to yield wholly negative results .
This result\#151 ; the explanation of which becomes clear in the sequel\#151 ; appeared to limit somewhat the ground we had to traverse in our search .
A further and still more definite limitation came to light when we found that the reactive substance in acetic acid is not an impurity of wholly extraneous origin , but is a derivative of acetic acid itself .
When a quantity of acetic acid wholly free from the reactive substance has stood for a few weeks , a reaction may always be obtained once more from the earliest portions of a distillate ; and , after standing for a month or two , even the bulk may yield a colour of moderate intensity .
( Cf .
infra .
) When , again , a pure acetate , and especially calcium acetate , is distilled with excess of sulphuric acid , the first runnings always give a marked Adamkiewicz reaction , though later portions give none .
This is true even when the acetate has been made by neutralising acid which was itself wholly incapable of giving a reaction .
Lastly , among the products of the dry distillation of most acetates small quantities of a substance are found which react with proteid in a typical manner .
In the case of calcium acetate the reaction obtainable \lt ; is a marked one\#151 ; though , as stated above , the active substance is .c-ertainly not acetone\#151 ; while with an aqueous extract of the products of the dry decomposition of mercuric ( not mercurous ) acetate the reaction with proteid is intense .
With such indications as these facts afforded , we now fortunately elected to experiment with various two-carbon compounds of typical structure , such as might conceivably arise from acetic acid , by oxidation or otherwise .
The first positive evidence came to light when we set out to prepare glycollic aldehyde by Fenton 's method.* As a mere preliminary observation , we oxidised tartaric acid in solution , by means of peroxide of hydrogen in the presence of a little ferrous sulphate , without taking * ' Journ. Chem. Soc./ 1835 , vol. 67 , p. 778 .
On the ProteidReaction of Adamkiewicz , \amp ; c. 25 .especial care to keep the mixture at 0 ' , and without attempting to separate the dioxymaleic acid formed .
A little of the oxidised solution was heated direct on the water bath till all evolution of CCF had ceased , and then cooled .
A trace of Witte 's peptone was added to the solution , which was free from excess of peroxide , and then strong sulphuric acid .
An intense colour reaction was obtained exactly similar to that seen in a normal Adamkiewicz reaction when carried out with acetic acid rich in the chromogenic substance .
The solution .gave also in the spectroscope an exactly similar absorption band .
We found subsequently , however , that glycollic aldehyde , isolated , either in the syrupy or crystalline condition , * and whether in aqueous .or acetic acid solution , gave no colour reaction under like conditions , but yielded only a charred product when the sulphuric acid was added .
Moreover , acetic acid , however rich in the chromogenic substance , never reduces ( after neutralising ) alkaline copper solutions .
A reduction of ammoniacal silver solutions may be obtained , but never any effect upon Fehling 's solution .
We came to the conclusion , therefore , that the substance sought must be an oxidation product of glycollic aldehyde ; and we now found that the latter needs only to be treated by Fenton 's oxidation method carried out at the temperature of the water bath to give a product , which , when free from excess of peroxide , yields in acetic or aqueous solution the proteid reaction abundantly .
At this time we made another observation of the greatest assistance to our inquiry , finding that the chromogenic substance is produced in abundance when oxalic acid is reduced in aqueous solution by means of zinc and sulphuric acid , or , more conveniently , by sodium amalgam .
The reduction need last for a few minutes only , and a little of the solution , without further treatment , will then be found to give an intense colour with proteid and sulphuric acid , the product showing .spectroscopic appearances identical with those of the ordinary Adamkiewicz reaction .
There was now no doubt that a colour reaction , not to be distinguished from that of Adamkiewicz , is yielded by a substance which is at once an oxidation product of glycollic aldehyde and a reduction product of oxalic acid .
It was difficult to see how this substance could be other than glycollic acid , glyoxylic acid , or glyoxal .
Pure glycollic acid was obtained from Merck .
It gave no trace of a colour reaction with proteid solution and sulphuric acid .
The product of its oxidation by Fenton 's method reacted , however , in a perfectly typical manner , and Fenton and Jones have found that this product is glyoxylic acid .
The latter was therefore prepared from alcohol by the method of * Fenton and Jackson , c Journ. Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 75 , p. 575 , 1899 .
We were indebted to Mr. Hy .
Jackson for a supply of the crystalline aldehyde .
Messrs. F. G. Hopkins and S. W. Cole .
Debus .
The calcium glyoxylate first obtained was recrystallised thrice .
A minute crystal of the salt dissolved in water , together with a little proteicl , gave , upon the addition of strong sulphuric acid , a vivid colour reaction not to be distinguished , spectroscopically or otherwise , from the reaction of Adamkiewicz .
Glyoxal , prepared subsequently from the products of the same Debus oxidation , gave no trace of such a reaction.* When glyoxylic acid is added to glacial acetic acid , previously deprived of its chromo-genic power by distillation , further distillation now yields a distillate which reacts typically , and the glyoxylic acid comes over characteristically , like the original chromogenic substance in the earlier fractions .
III .
Glyoxylic Acid from Acetic Acid .
It now became necessary to ascertain whether glyoxylie acid is , as a matter of fact , present in such specimens of acetic acid as yield the Adamkiewicz reaction .
In seeking for evidence as to this , it was necessary to remember that exceedingly little glyoxylic acid is necessary fo the reaction .
With an aqueous solution of such strength as will give no more than an opalescence with phenyl hydrazine , the colour reaction with proteid is well marked .
It was found , however , that oxidation with hydrogen peroxide confers abundant chromogenic power upon acetic acid previously giving no proteid reaction ; and it was our first endeavour to ascertain whether , as a result of this , glyoxylic acid is produced in quantity sufficient for its easier identification .
The presence of small quantities of ferrous iron accelerates the oxidation , and is , perhaps , essential to it.f The process occurs most rapidly at boiling temperature , and proceeds most satisfactorily when the acetic acid is repeatedly distilled with the peroxide .
The limit of the oxidation is in any case soon reached .
Using twenty volumes strength , the peroxide is found to be rapidly destroyed till a volume has been added about equal to that of the acetic acid taken ; after this the reaction becomes very slow .
We proceeded as follows :\#151 ; A litre of glacial acetic acid was mixed with an equal bulk of twenty-volume peroxide and some ammonio ferrous sulphate added ( half a gramme per litre , or less ) .
The mixtm e * Many specimens of commercial glyoxal give the reaction , but only , as we have found , when they contain glyoxylic acid ; preparations of glycollic acid may contain traces of the latter .
f We have found that some specimens of peroxide bring about the oxidation without the addition of iron ; others undoubtedly act much less readily , unless a ferrous salt is added .
While we have been unable to detect the presence of iron in the former , so small a quantity appears to affect the reaction that it is P , K trace of the metal present as an impurity may account for the difference .
On the Proteid Reaction of Adamkiewicz , \amp ; r. was slowly distilled nearly to dryness , and the distillate returned and again distilled .
The second or third distillate usually showed freedom from peroxide when tested with chromic acid ; if not , distillation was repeated .
One-tenth of the final distillate was set aside , and the remainder neutralised with potash .
The still acid portion being then mixed with the rest , the whole was distilled as low as possible , avoiding , however , any separation of potassium acetate in the retort .
The distillate always gave an abundant proteid reaction , and if any trace of free peroxide had been left at the previous stage , it always disappeared during the distillation of the partially neutralised mixture as just described .
A small trace of free peroxide will interfere with the proteid reaction .
On adding phenyl hydrazine hydrochloride ( without acetate ) to the distillate thus obtained , a light yellow precipitate begins to separate almost at once , and after standing it becomes considerable in amount , and is crystalline .
But although , as we were able to show , the hydrazone of glyoxylic acid is present in this precipitate , it is mixed with a considerable proportion of a compound much less soluble in acetic ether and in hot water .
If the original precipitate be recrystallised from a minimal quantity of acetic ether , the substance which separates first consists of perfectly colourless glistening plates , which after recrystallising from acetic ether may assume the form of rosetted prismatic needles .
These melt sharply at 184 ' .
The nature of this substance became clear after the publication of certain recent observations .
Gerhard Ollendorff " has shown that formic aldehyde is formed when glycollic acid is oxidised with peroxide of hydrogen , and Fenton* calls attention to the fact that glyoxylic acid must in this case be the intermediate product .
The product we obtained from acetic acid was undoubtedly the compound of formaldehyde described by Wellington and Tollens.f A portion repeatedly recrystallised from acetic ether and showing a constant melting point ( 184 ' ) was analysed .
0T47 gramme gave 27 Ac.c .
moist N , at 12 ' , and 758 mm. N = 22 '07 per cent. Another preparation , recrystallised from a mixture of alcohol and toluol , melted at 182\#151 ; 183 ' ; of this 0*211 gramme gave-39*3 c.c. moist N , at 14 ' , and 758 mm. N = 2T8.7 per cent. I. 22-07 II .
21-87 Calculated for C15H16N4 .
22-22 .
This hydrazone can be obtained pure in the above manner with * Fenton , ' Journ. Cliem .
Soc. , ' ]900 , vol. 77 , p. 129G .
f ' Deutsch .
Cliem .
Ges .
Berichte , ' 1885 , vol. 18 , p. 3330 .
28 Messrs. F. G. Hopkins and S. W. Cole .
great ease if not more than 4 to 5 grammes of phenylhydrazine hydrochloride have been added to the final distillate obtained after oxidising , as above , 1 litre of acetic acid , nearly neutralising the mixture and distilling .
We prepared the compound from formaldehyde , and found it to agree with our product in every particular .
Formaldehyde certainly does not yield the proteid reaction , and its formation when acetic acid is treated as described seems to be in itself evidence for the formation of glyoxylic acid during the process , as it is difficult to see how it could arise during the oxidation of acetic acid if not from a preliminary formation of glyoxylic acid with subsequent loss of carbon dioxide .
But its formation adds greatly to the difficulty of obtaining pure the hydrazone of glyoxylic acid itself , especially as the precipitate produced by phenylhydrazine undoubtedly contains , in addition to the compound of Wellington and Tollens , smaller amounts of the derivatives described by J. W. Walker.* After the nature of this bye-product was recognised we modified our procedure by neglecting the earlier portions of the final distillate which contains , of course , the greater part of the formaldehyde .
Phenylhydrazine hydrochloride added to the latter half , or two-thirds , of such a distillate yields a precipitate which forms more slowly than that obtained when the whole is dealt with .
After twenty-four hours it is usually crystalline and of a yellow colour , growing darker with further standing .
We found it easier to obtain a product with a constant melting point by recrystallising from hot water rather than from an organic solvent , prolonged heating with the water being at any stage avoided .
This treatment involves considerable loss , however , and we obtained only about 4 decigrammes of the hydrazone after oxidising 3 litres of acetic acid .
This , however , had all the characters of glyoxylic hydrazone , and melted sharply at 137 ' .
0'204 gramme gave 30-4 c.c. moist N at 16 ' and 750 mm. N = 17T4 per cent. Calculated for CsHgOaNg = 17'07 .
When acetic acid has been oxidised as described and the mixture partially neutralised and distilled , the distillate , when treated with excess of chalk , will yield , after standing and filtering , the reaction for glyoxylic acid described by Perkin and Duppa .
If after treatment with chalk a slight excess of calcium hydrate be added , and the mixture concentrated in vacuo to about one-third its original bulk , this reaction with aniline oxalate is obtained in a highly characteristic manner .
The methods we have hitherto employed do not yield the glyoxylic .acid in solutions of sufficient strength to permit of its calcium salt * 1 Journ. Cliem .
Soc./ 1896 , vol. 69 , p. 1280 .
On the ProteidReaction of Adamkiewicz , 29 being separated from the associated acetate and isolated in substance .
The ease with which the salt dissociates and the volatility of the acid with water vapour make concentration of small avail .
The evidence for the formation of glyoxylic acid during oxidation appears , however , to be conclusive , and it is interesting to note that , judging from the gradual development of the reaction with proteid , this oxidation goes on slowly when acetic acid is exposed to air , and especially under the influence of light .
Ferrous iron undoubtedly accelerates this , and if acetic acid giving no proteid reaction be somewhat diluted , and a little ferrous salt added , exposure to direct sunlight will confer a reactive power in the course of a few hours .
We have not been able to separate the hydrazone in quantity sufficient for its identification from average specimens of untreated acetic acid ; but it appears equally difficult to do so when small quantities of glyoxylic acid , sufficient to confer an average chromogenic power , have been added to a specimen previously giving no reaction .
On one occasion we obtained a quantity of glacial acid giving the reaction with special intensity .
This acid had crystallised in bulk , and we were supplied with drainings from the crystals .
Seven litres were fractionally distilled until the chromogenic substance was concentrated into about 1 litre .
This was nearly neutralised and again distilled .
Phenylhydrazine acetate added to the distillate gave a considerable quantity of crystalline precipitate , yellow at first , darkening on standing .
This was obtained before we had identified glyoxylic acid as the substance sought , and most of the hydrazone was lost in preliminary solubility tests .
A small quantity was reserved , however , and this , recrystallised thrice from hot water , melted sharply at 137 ' .
The observations we have hitherto made give no quantitative indications of any value .
In this paper we have been mainly concerned with the endeavour to prove the nature of the active substance in the .
proteid reaction .
We propose to study the oxidation of acetic acid further , and to define if possible the conditions necessary for a maximal yield of glyoxylic acid .
IY .
Remarks on the Colour Reaction : Spectroscopic Phenomena .
Adamkiewicz* observed that the colour produced in the reaction varies from red to violet , the blue element increasing with increase in the amount of acetic acid employed .
When glyoxylic acid in aqueous solution is used , unless the solution be very dilute , the colour partakes more of a blue shade than is usually seen with ordinary specimens of acetic acid .
But after concentrating the reactive substance of the latter by fractional distillation ( supra ) or upon large dilution of the * Loc .
cit. , p. 158 .
Messrs. F. G. Hopkins and S. W. Cole .
glyoxylic acid solution , the colours obtained become identical .
The spectroscopic absorption is identical whichever reagent is employed .
When sulphuric acid is added to a solution of proteid in acetic acid wholly free from glyoxylic acid , a considerable amount of charring occurs , and the mixture becomes somewhat fluorescent .
When , under similar circumstances , very little glyoxylic acid is present , the reddish colour obtained is still associated with fluorescence .
But , when sufficient of the glyoxylic acid is present , whether in acetic or aqueous solution , to combine with the whole of the proteid product concerned in the reaction , there is complete absence of charring and little or no fluorescence .
The solution becomes of a pure violet-blue colour .
The coloured product of the Adamkiewicz reaction is usually stated to show an absorption band between and F in the position of the urobilin band ; and Krukenberg described another between D and E. Salkowski found the former to be inconstant , and we are convinced that the latter alone is proper to the real product of the colour reaction : the former , when seen , being due to some accessory effect of the strong acids upon proteids .
It is never seen in the original form of the reaction unless the acetic acid employed is greatly deficient in reactive power , and it is not observed with glyoxylic acid .
The other band is always present , and is identical after the use of a satisfactory specimen of acetic acid and when a solution of glyoxylic acid is used .
The band shrinks rapidly from its more refrangible edge on dilution of the solution , its redward edge shifting but little .
The following readings show the correspondence seen after employing acetic acid as obtained in the market ( but with its active substance concentrated by distillation ) and that seen after the use of glyoxylic acid in aqueous solution .
The strengths were so arranged that , before dilution , the colour of each solution appeared to be of the same intensity .
Witte 's peptone was the proteid employed to obtain the reaction :\#151 ; , Aqueous glyoxylic Acetic acid .
acid .
Strong ... ... ... ... ... ... .
X 480\#151 ; X 625 Diluted with an equal volume of sulphuric acid A 495\#151 ; A 625 Diluted with thrice its volume of sulphuric acid A 530\#151 ; A 610 A 480\#151 ; A 630 A 495\#151 ; A 625 A 530\#151 ; A 615 Y. Other Sources of th Reactive Substance .
Of the typical two-carbon compounds\#151 ; glycol , glycollic aldehyde , glvcollic acid , glyoxal , glyoxylic acid , and oxalic acid\#151 ; none but the aldehyde-acid ( glyoxylic acid , HCO .
COOH or CH(OH)2.COOH ) , gives the smallest indications of yielding a colour-reaction with proteid on addition of sulphuric acid .
It would seem that the reaction is not On the ProteidReaction of Adamkiewicz , dec. 31 common to aldehyde-acids , as glycuronic acid , HCO(CH .
OH)4COOH , trives wholly negative results .
Again , a ketonic acid so closely related to glyoxylic acid as pyruvic acid , CH3.CO .
COOH , gives no indication of a reaction .
Glyoxylic acid stands , of course , alone in containing the aldehydic and carboxylic groups in juxtaposition .
Our observations are far from being complete enough to enable us to assert that a reaction with proteid of the special type under consideration depends essentially upon this particular structure .
But the preliminary observations we have made tend to give some probability to this view .
At least it may be said that hitherto we have never obtained a reaction except with products in which either glyoxylic acid has been shown to be present , or in which its presence is extremely probable .
For instance , we have found that mesoxalic acid ( prepared from barium alloxanate ) in aqueous solution gives with proteid and sulphuric acid a perfectly typical Adamkiewicz reaction ; but under the conditions employed we have found that a portion at least of the mesoxalic acid present loses carbon dioxide , so that it is in the highest degree probable that glyoxylic acid is in this case also the substance which reacts .
Pyruvic acid gives , as we have said , no trace of a reaction , but the product of its oxidation by peroxide of hydrogen undoubtedly reacts .
Paraladicacid , itself inactive , yields also an active product on oxidation by Fenton 's method at the temperature of the water bath .
These two cases go together , as Fenton and Jones have shown that lactic acid yields pyruvic acid when oxidised at 0 ' in the presence of ferrous iron .
It seems extremely probable that the oxidation of the pyruvic acid at the higher temperature yields mesoxalic acid , and that the reaction obtained is therefore due in each case to glyoxylic acid .
One abundant source of a reactive substance is found in the oxidation of glycerin by Fenton 's method , carried out at the temperature of the water bath .
Glyceric acid yields the substance under like conditions ; and , as Fenton and Jones* have shown that glyceric acid , when the oxidation is carried out in the cold , gives a product which is almost certainly either hydroxy-pyruvic acid or the tautomeric substance dihydroxyacrylic acid , the facts here quite probably fall into line with those just enumerated .
The substance which reacts with proteid is only obtained in quantity in these cases when the oxidation is carried out at higher temperatures than those used by Fenton , and if the oxidised products are distilled , it is always found that the distillate gives the reaction .
When dextrose solutions are boiled with peroxide in the presence of ferrous salts a substance is formed , volatile with steam , which yields # ' Journ. Chem. Soc. , ' 1 ?
00 , vol. 77 , p. 72 .
32 On the ProteidReaction of Adamkiewicz , \amp ; c. the proteid reaction abundantly .
Preliminary observations that we have made leave little doubt that this is glyoxylic acid itself .
If it should prove that the reaction is , as a matter of fact , peculiar to glyoxylic acid , it certainly forms a very delicate test for that substance .
YI .
Glyoxylic Acid Solutions a Practiced Test for Proteids .
By replacing the acetic acid of the Adamkiewicz reaction by weak aqueous solutions of glyoxylic acid a very beautiful and reliable test for proteids is obtained .
The colour reaction is brilliant , and the test is , of course , subject to none of the uncertainty inseparable from the use of acetic acid.* In preparing such a test solution , there is usually no need to separate the glyoxylic acid from associated products .
Excellent test solutions may be made by oxidising upon the water bath , in the presence of small quantities of ferrous iron , either weak solutions of tartaric acid or mixtures of glycerin and water , great care being taken to ensure that no trace of free peroxide remains at the close of the operation .
But we strongly recommend the use of reduced oxalic acid for the purpose , as a solution can be prepared with great ease , and almost without regard to conditions .
In a moderately strong solution of oxalic acid a few lumps of sodium amalgam are placed , the amount taken of the latter being less than sufficient to neutralise the acid .
When the evolution of hydrogen has ceased , the solution is poured off from the mercury and filtered .
It will be found , even after large dilution , to yield an intense reaction tvith proteids if used instead of acetic acid under the familiar conditions of the Adamkiewicz test .
The proteid , or the proteid solution to be tested , should be first added to the reagent , and then strong sulphuric acid poured down the side of the test-tube .
The reaction may be first observed at the junction of the fluids and the latter subsequently mixed .
At least one-thircl volume of sulphuric acid should he used , but the quantity may be almost indefinitely increased .
There is no tendency to charring .
* It is certainly rare to find a specimen of acetic acid which yields no reaction , though , many contain too little glyoxylic acid to give a satisfactory colour .
It seems to be possible , however , that there have been cases of a proteid derivative being found to yield no Adamkiewicz reaction , in which the negative result was really due to the acetic acid employed .
We have , for instance , prepared and carefully purified the primary albumoses from Witte 's peptone by the method of E P Pick ( ' Zeitsch .
f. physiol .
Chcrn .
, ' 1899 , vol. 28 , p. 219 ) .
Unlike this observer , we have found these products to yield a marked Adamkiewicz reaction ; and with all reserve , we venture to suggest that the acetic acid employed by Pick at this stage of his observations may have chanced to be free from chromogemc power .
Determination of the Wave-lengths of the Hydrogen Lines .
33 Summary .
The proteid reaction described by Adamkiewicz is not a furfurol reaction , but depends upon the presence of small quantities of an impurity in the acetic acid employed .
Some specimens of acetic acid yield no reaction , and all may be deprived of chromogenic power by distillation . .
The substance essential to the reaction is glyoxylic acid .
Small quantities of glyoxylic acid are produced during the oxidation of acetic acid by hydrogen-peroxide in the presence of ferrous iron .
Under the conditions used in this research , part of the glyoxylic acid thus formed is split up , yielding formaldehyde .
Glyoxylic acid is slowly formed when acetic acid stands in the air , and more rapidly in the presence of ferrous iron and under the influence of direct sunlight .
Most specimens of acetic acid contain small amounts of glyoxylic acid as an admixture .
A dilute aqueous solution of glyoxylic acid , which may be readily prepared by the reduction of oxalic acid with sodium amalgam , forms an admirable test for proteids when used instead of acetic acid under the ordinary conditions of the Adamkiewicz test .
In carrying out this investigation we have been led to employ extensively the method of oxidation described by H. J. H. Fenton , and as a result we have in some degree trenched upon the systematic study of the oxidation of organic acids which he has in hand .
It is with his consent that such of our observations are published .
The expenses of the research were met by a grant awarded to one of us by the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society .
" Preliminary Determination of the Wave-lengths of the Hydrogen Lines , derived from Photographs taken at Ovar at the Eclipse of the Sun , 1900 , May 28 .
" By F. W. Dyson , M.A. , Sec. E.A.S. Communicated by W. H. M. Christie , C.B. , M.A. , F.B.S. Received January 17 , \#151 ; Read February 7 , 1901 .
The spectrum of the " flash " obtained in observations of solar eclipses furnishes a method of determining the wave-lengths of the hydrogen series with great accuracy , as these lines are strongly shown and sharply defined .
As the determination of these wave-lengths is somewhat removed from the general subject of eclipse spectroscopy , it seemed suitable for a separate paper .
The following determination is made from four photographs taken near the beginning of totality at Ovar , at the eclipse of 1900 , May 28 , VOL. lxviii .
D

