On the 21st of May , when he had learned her position more precisely from the Astronomer Royal , he observed her again with the same power , but could discern no appearance of a planetary disc .
On the 22nd he perceived her to have moved since the preceding evening , and now examined her with increased powers of 460 , 577 , and 636 , but could find no difference between the planet and a fixed star , the 463rd of Bode 's Catalogue .
Since Vesta thus bears to be examined by high magnifying powers without apparent enlargement of her disc , which is the test by which Dr. Herschel formerly determined the apparent discs of Ceres , Pallas , and Juno , to be spurious , he considers her as belonging to that formerly unknown species of celestial bodies which he has termed asteroids .
May 24th.-Dr .
Herschel compared Vesta with the Gregorian planet , and found that with a power of 577 her apparent disc was about one ninth or one tenth as large ; and with his 20-feet reflector , of 18inches aperture , she had no surrounding atmosphere or nebulosity .
Dr. Herschel 's observations on the comet , which follow , were confined to three days , January 27 , January 31 , and February 1 .
It was near the electrometer of the constellation , called by Bode llachina electrica .
Its coma was of an irregular round form , extending six or seven minutes in diameter .
Upon revising his observations of sixteen telescopic comets , Dr. Herschel remarks , that fourteen have been without any visible solid body in their centre , and that the other two had but an ill-defined small central light , which did not deserve the name of a disc .
On the Quantity of Carbon in carbonic Acid , and on the Nature of the Diamond .
By William Allen , Esq. F.L.S. and William Hasledine Pepys , Esq. Communicated by Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. M.R.I.A. Read June 18 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 267 .
] The experiments , which form the subject of the present communication were undertaken , not only on account of the difference between the estimates that have been made of the quantity of carbon in carbonic acid , but because those of Guyton de Morveau , which are most frequently preferred at this time in various systems of chemistry , appeared liable to many objections , from the manner in which they were conducted ; while the original experiments of Lavoisier , on the contrary , appear to have been performed with much accuracy , and had moreover been confirmed by Mr. Tenant in his researches on the nature of the diamond .
The design of the authors was to consume certain known quantities of diamnond and of other carbonaceous substances in oxygen gas ; for which purpose it had been originally their intention to employ 27:3 the sun 's rays , by means of a powerful lens ; but , considering the uncertainty of a favourable opportunity in this country , they resolved to employ an apparatus consisting of two mercurial gas-holders , with a tube of platina interposed between them in a horizontal position , and passing through a small furnace , by which the tube and its contents might be heated to any degree requisite for the combustion of the substance employed .
Into this tube the diamond or other variety of carbonaceous matter was introduced in a small tray , also of platina ; after which , by opening a due communication with each gas-holder , the oxygen was made to pass freely over the surface , from one gasometer to the other , during the continuance of the heat , and subsequently examined by means of the eudiometer lately described by Mr. Pepys .
Having found that oxygen gas was liable , notwithstanding every precaution , to be deteriorated by keeping , the authors were careful to prepare it , on all occasions , within an hour or two of the time of using it , from the hyperoxygenized muriate of potash .
Its purity was also ascertained before every experiment .
The solution employed for this purpose was the solution of green sulphate of iron , saturated with nitrous gas ; and lest any increase might have been occasioned by the extrication of this gas from the solution , the simple sulphate alone was subsequently employed , so that the residuum enabled them to determine exactly the quantity of oxygen contained in the gas .
Their charcoal was prepared from different kinds of wood , sawed into slips , and gradually heated in small crucibles covered with sand , and ultimately retained in a white heat for forty minutes .
By this treatment Fir yielded ... ... . .
18^17 per cent. Lignum Vite ... ... . .
17*25 -Box ... ... . .
2025 Beech ... . .
15 Oak ... ... 17-40 Mahogany ... . .
15*75 Having next examined the absorbent power of charcoal , and found that the weight which it gains by exposure to air is principally attributable to water , the charcoal to be employed in any experiment was always subjected to a red heat immediately before using it , and weighed as expeditiously as was consistent with accuracy .
Since the volumes of gas employed and produced would be influenced by temperature , as well as barometric pressure , the states of both barometer and thermometer were noted at the time of every experiment , and allowance was made by adding , or subtracting , -u-th part of every degree below or above 60 ? .
The exact weights of certain measures of oxygen gas , and of carbonic acid gas , were also carefully examined , by allowing a glass globe , previously exhausted and weighed , to receive a given measure of either of these gases from a gasometer .
By the increase of weight acquired in each case , it was found that 100 inches of oxygen gas weighed 33'82 grains , and that the same measure of carbonic acid gas weighed 47*26 grains .
In the first experiment , which they made upon the combustion of charcoal , four grains of box-wood charcoal were employed , and it was found that only T-th of a grain remained of a white ash .
The volume of gas employed appeared unaltered after the heat had subsided ; but the combustion of 3-98 grains of charcoal had produced 29-13 inches of carbonic acid gas , or 13-76 grains ; so that according to the experiment , 100 grains carbonic acid gas contains 28*92 charcoal .
But by a computation founded on the quantity of oxygen consumed , it would appear that the quantity of charcoal is only 28-77 per cent. In their next experiment 2-49 grains of diamond , in small fragments , were consumed .
In this case , as in the former , the combustion caused no apparent increase or diminution of the quantity of gas ; but there were found to be 18-20 inches of carbonic acid gas , in which the diamond would appear to be contained in the proportion of 28-95 per cent. But again , by estimation from the weight of 18 20 inches of oxygen consumed , the proportion of diamond was slightly different , being 28*81 per cent. In this experiment , the authors could perceive no appearance of moisture or dullness on the surface of the quicksilver , or sides of the glasses ; and they observed that the diamond had left no discolouration of the tray , and no residual ash .
In a second experiment eleven small diamonds , weighing 4 01 grains , were consumed ; and they produced 13*91 grains of carbonic acid gas , in the proportion of 28*82 parts diamond for each 100 of gas .
By a similar experiment upon stone-coal from Wales , such as is employed by maltsters , the quantity of carbonic acid gas produced was found to contain 28*20 per cent. of coal ; but in this case the proportion deduced from the quantity of oxygen consumed , rather exceeded the estimate formed from the carbonic acid , instead of being less , as in former experiments .
Carbonic acid formed in the same manner from the combustion of plumbago , contained 28-46 of carbonaceous matter , whether estimated from the gas produced , or from the oxygen gas consumed .
From the average result of these five experiments , the authors conclude that 100 parts of carbonic acid contain 28*6 of carbon , a quantity rather greater than appeared to Mr. Tenant , who did not find it more than 27 8 ; but this difference may easily be accounted for , by the different modes of operating .
The authors conclude , that the estimate given by Lavoisier at 28 , which is between that of Mr. Tenant and their own , is very near the truth .
2ndly .
That the diamond is pure carbon .
3rdly .
That well burned charcoal contains no hydrogen , but soon absorbs moisture from the air , which would occasion fallacious results .
4thly , That charcoal is not an oxide of carbon ; since , when rightly prepared , it requires quite as much oxygen for its combustion as diamond .
And lastly , That the diamond differs from charcoal , solely in the firmness of its aggregation , which is generally known to be an obstacle to every chemical change .

