S. " Tide Researches .
Fourteenth Series .
On the Results of continued Tide Observations at several places on the British Coasts .
" By the Rev. W. Whewell , D.D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Tide observations made at several different parts of the Britislh and neighbouring shores , and in some instances continued for a considerable period , having been discussed by Mr. D. Ross of the Hydrographer 's Office , with great labour and perseverance , a brief statement of the results which his labours afford is here presented by Dr. Whewell .
The discussions here referred to relate to the height of high water , and the variations which this height undergoes in proceeding from springs to neaps , and from neaps to springs .
It is found , by examining the observations at 120 places , and throwing the heights into curves , that the curve is very nearly of the same form at all these places .
-ence the semi-mensual series of heights at any place affords a rule for the series of ' heights at all other places where the difference of spring height and neap height is the same .
For instance , Portsmouth , where the difference of spring height and neap height is 2 ft. 8 in .
, is a rule for Cork , Waterford , Inverness , Bantry , Arcachan on the Frenchl coast , and other places : and the tables of the heights of high water at one of these places suffices for all the others , a constant being of course added or subtracted according to the position of the zero-point from which the heights at each place are measulred .
The series of heights of high water for a semi-lunation also agrees very exactly , as to the form of the curve , with the equilibrium theory .
A very simple construction is given for the determination of this curve .
The properties deduced according to theory from this construction are , however , in actual cases , modified in a manner which is then described .
1 .
The tides in these discussions are not referred to the transit of the moon immediately preceding , but to some earlier transit , namely , the second , third , fourth or fifth preceding transit , it being found that in this way the accordance with the theory becomes more exact .
2 .
According to this construction , the difference of springs and neaps would be to the height of neaps above low water springs as 10 to 24 , a constant ratio for all places ; but in fact this ratio is different at different places : and the observations under consideration show that the ratio is smaller where the tide is smaller .
In consequence of the law of the high water , given alike by the theory and by the observations , the spring high waters are above the mean high water for a longer period than the neaps are below it .

