III .
" c On the Law of the Resistance of the Air to Rifled Projectiles .
" By CHARLES W. MERRIFIELD , F.R.S. , Principal of the Royal School of Naval Architecture .
Received March 19 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) At the beginning of this month Lieut.-Col. H. R. Halford applied to the author to obtain for him the law of atmospheric resistance resulting from his experiments in shooting with Metford 's match-rifle , a small bore with increasing pitch .
Col. Halford had determined by experiment the elevations required for the ranges 100 , 200 , &amp;c. up to 1100 yards , each determination being derived from a very large number of shots ; and the table of experimental elevations , corresponding to these various ranges , formed the datum furnished to the author .
As all the trajectories were very low , the greatest elevation amounting to only 2ยง 35 ' 30 " , the author assumed , as a sufficiently close approximation , that the vertical motion was determined solely by the force of gravity , and that the effect of the resistance of the air on the velocity was the same as if the projectile had moved strictly in a horizontal line .
Consequently the depression of the point in which the target is struck , below the initial tangent to the path , becomes a measure of the time of flight , according to the usual law of falling bodies ; and the mean horizontal velocity being thus known for a series of different ranges , we call calculate the mean velocity for every 100 yards of a long range , and thence determine the resistance .
The author commenced his calculations from an assumed velocity of 1360 feet per second , in accordance with the results obtained at short ranges , and assumed for trial a resistance varying as the square of the velocity , but found that this law did not fit the results at all .
A resistauce varying as the cube of the velocity was then tried , and found very nearly to agree with the results of observation ; and the agreement became , we may say , perfect , when the assumed initial velocity was slightly corrected .
As the calculations and experiments were all made Without any notion of the resulting law , and without any knowledge of the work already done by Professor H1lie and Professor Bashforth , they afford a remarkable confirmation of the results obtained by those gentlemen .
This is the more worthy of notice , as their data belong to pieces of large calibrei and the author 's to small arms .

