^ ) ] 1883 ] On the Atomic Weight of ( ) .
lo7 Nation of the earth on its axis are at least premature , until the theories have been revised with a unit of time freed from changes of adopted constants , which are at present inextricably mixed up with lie effects which would result from a change m the time of rotation of the earth on its axis .
II " On the Atomic Weight of Glucinum ( Beryllium ) .
" By T. s. Humpidge , Ph. D. , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor Frankland , F.R.S. Received March 20 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author shows that no conclusions with respect to the atomic weight of glucinum can be drawn from analogy of its compounds with those of other metals , and that this long-disputed question can only be decided by the specific heat of the metal or by the vapour-density of some of its volatile compounds .
Two determinations of the specific heat have been made by Professor E. Reynolds and by M. Nilson , the former of whom obtained a result of about 0'6 , and the latter only about 04 .
The probable inaccuracies in Professor Reynolds ' apparatus are pointed out , and it is shown that his metal was probably impure .
The author has prepared metallic glucinum from the chloride , the vapour of which was passed over sodium contained in iron boats in a glass tube .
A metal was thus obtained which had the composition : \#166 ; G1 93-97 G1203. . .
4-71 Fe 1-32 Si traces .
100-00 and was probably the purest yet prepared .
The specific heat was determined by a modification of Regnault 's method of mixtures , using electrical appliances to avoid the necessity of an assistant .
Three determinations of the specific heat of silver in water , made to test the apparatus , gave the following results : I ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-05677 II ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0-05568 HI ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0-05553 Mean ... ... ... ... 0*05600 and with a mean error of 1 per cent. The specific heat of metallic Mr. H. Carpenter .
[ Apr. iff glucinum was determined in turpentine , of which the specific heat was found to be 0-4231 , and with the following results Mean ... ... ... 0 4316 and with a mean error of 0'8 per cent. Making a correction for the i impurities contained in the metal , its true specific heat would he \lt ; \#163 ; no53 , mThenCe if tHe at'mic W6ight is 13'65 the afcomic teat becomes | b-08 .
his must , therefore , be the true atomic weight , and not two- i thirds of this , or 9*1 .
The number found by Nilson was somewhat lower than this ( 0-4079 ) I and the above results may be slightly too high , firstly from hygroscopic ( moisture , and secondly from heat produced when the liquid was absorbed by the porous metal .
About 0-66 gramme of the metal was used for the determinations , and it was compressed to a compact disk in a steel mortar .
The author is continuing the research .
MI .
' On .
a New Crinoid from the Southern Sea .
" By P. Herbert Carpenter , M.A. , Assistant Master at Eton College .
Communicated by W. B. Carpenter , C.B. , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 15 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) Among the collections of the late Sir Wyville Thomson , a small Gomatula has recently been discovered which was dredged by the " Challenger " at a depth of 1,800 fathoms in the Southern Sea .
Although it is unusually small , the diameter of the calyx being only 2 millims. , the characters presented by this form are such as to render it by far the most remarkable among all the types of recent Crinoids , whether stalked or free .
The name proposed for it is Themmatocrinus renovatus .
It has only five arms , and in this respect resembles Eudiocrinus .
But the basals , instead of becoming transformed into a rosette as in that genus , persist on the exterior of the calyx and form a closed ring of relatively large plates , which rest upon the centrodorsal .
They support a ring of ten plates , five of which , alternating with the basals , bear the arms and are therefore the radials .
These radials .
however , do not meet one another laterally ; for they alternate with five plates slightly smaller than themselves , which rest upon the

