Observations on the Structure of the different Cavities which constitute the Stomach of the Whale , compared with those of ruminating Animals , with a View to ascertain the Situation of the digestive Organ .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 12 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 93 .
] Mr. Home , having in a former paper communicated his observations upon the stomachs of ruminating animals , gives the present account of that organ in the whale tribe , to show that it forms a link in the gradation towards the stomach of truly carnivorous animals .
The Delphinus delphis of Linneus , the bottle-nosed porpoise , called by Mr. Hunter the bottle-nosed whale , having been brought ashore alive by some fishermen at Worthing , Mr. Home took the opportunity of examining the structure of its stomach , and discovered a resemblance between the second , third , and fourth cavities in the whale , and the different parts of the fourth cavity in the camel and bullock , which appeared to throw some light upon their uses , as well as upon digestion in general .
The oesophagus in this porpoise is very wide : it has a number of longitudinal folds , and is lined with a strong cuticle , which is continued throughout the first stomach .
This stomach lies in the direction of the oesophagus , without any contraction to mark its origin , and bears a strong resemblance in shape to a Florence flask .
The coats of its cavity are firm , and are surrounded by a strong muscular covering .
The orifice leading to the second stomach is at right angles to the first , and at a small distance only from the oesophagus : the canal from thence into the second stomach is three inches long , and opens into it by a projecting orifice two inches and a half in diameter , at which the cuticular covering of the preceding parts terminates .
This stomach is nearly spherical , seven inches in diameter , of a honeycombed appearance and glandular structure .
The exit towards the third stomach is placed very near the entrance from the first , and is only five eighths of an inch in diameter .
The third cavity is also spherical , and two inches in diameter , with an aperture only three eighths of an inch in diameter , leading to a fourth stomach .
This cavity is nearly cylindrical , like an intestine , but rather widest , measuring nearly three inches at its further extremity , and fourteen inches and a half in length .
The pylorus , which is the boundary of this stomach , is only one fourth of an inch in diameter .
The dilated cavity into which this opens has been considered by Cuvier and Hunter as belonging also to the stomach ; but Mr. Home observes , that it should rather be considered as duodenum , since the common duct of the liver and pancreas opens into it .
The common porpoise , the grampus , and piked whale , have also four cavities constituting the stomach ; but in the bottle-nosed whale of Dale there are as many as six : the general structure , however , is the same ; and in all the whale tribe there is but one cavity lined with a cuticle , as in the camel and bullock .
In all of them the second cavity has a very glandular structure , and in all the third is very small .
The fourth stomach also , in each of them , has a smooth internal surface , with orifices of glands opening into its cavity .
The first stomach appears not to be a mere reservoir , since the food undergoes a considerable change in it .
The flesh is here entirely separated from the bones , of which several handfuls were found without the smallest remains of the fish to which they belonged ; the orifices into the second and third stomachs being too small to admit the bones to pass .
The bones must consequently be reduced to a jelly in the first stomach , but require a longer time for the completion of that process than the fleshy parts .
The second cavity is that which Mr. Hunter supposed to be the true digesting stomach ; but Mr. Home , notwithstanding his deference for every opinion of Mr. Hunter 's , is of a contrary opinion , from considering that any further cavities would in that case be superfluous , after the complete formation of chyle , and from observing that the last cavity is that which , in its structure , bears the closest analogy to the simple human stomach , in which the process of forming chyle is certainly completed .
From a comparison also of these stomachs with the fourth of the camel , it appeared that only the lower portion of that cavity is the stomach , in which the chyle is formed , and that its upper or plicated portion serves only to prepare the food for the process of digestion .
In the same manner also in the bullock , although there is not the slightest contraction or subdivision between the upper and lower portions , Mr. Home considers the plicated part as a mere preparatory organ , and the lower as that which secretes the proper gastric juice .
As the stomachs of the camel , bullock , and horse , form principal links in the gradation from the most complex ruminating stomachs s to the most simple for digesting vegetable food , so those of the bullock , camel , and whale , are links from the ruminating to the most simple stomachs for digesting animal food ; and the camel 's stomach is the most important link in each series , the contraction peculiar to its fourth cavity making it intermediate between the bullock and the whale .
Although the above facts appear to throw some light on the digestion of different kinds of food , they also present difficulties which must remain to be explained when further progress has been made in the investigation .
It is in general admitted , that animal substances do not require so long a process to convert them into chyle as vegetables ; and hence the stomachs of carnivorous animals are in general most simple : but why the whale tribe , which live on fish that are very readily converted into chyle , should have a more complex stomach , it is not easy to explain .
What further uses , in regard to other secretions , these preparatory stomachs may have , are foreign to the design of the present paper , which Mr. Home considers as a.continuation of a series of observations on digestion , and hopes to extend further at some future opportunity .

