XVIII .
On the difference in the appearance of the teeth and the shape of the skull in different species of Seals .
By Sir EVERARD HOME , Bart. V. P. R. S. Read February 28 , 18e2 .
AT a time when geology is pursued with so much ardour , I am induced to lay before the Society the following facts respecting the skull and teeth of the seal , as their being known will be an advantage when encrusted or fossil remains of that animal are met with .
The accompanying drawings were made 30 years ago , at the time Mr. HUNTER was preparing to lay before the Society some observations on the skulls of wolves and bears found in the caves of the principality of Bayreuth , in Germany .
Among these , so great was the difference in the form of the skull of the young bear and the old , that where the jaws had been destroyed , it required the eye of an anatomist to determine that the skull really belonged to the bear .
While engaged upon that subject , I was surprised to find in the seal tribe , not only that the skull in the large species from the South Seas , differed exceedingly in its appearance from that of the smaller ones in the Northern Ocean , but that the teeth were equally unlike .
At that time the facts had less importance ; the study of geology being little attended to , the subject escaped my memory , till the recent strides made by CUVIER , BUCKLAND , and others , have induced me to resume it .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE XXVII .
Represents the skull of the large seal so many years deposited in the British Museum , from the South Seas .
PLATE XXVIII .
Shows the skull of a seal shot near the Orkney Isles , by a gentleman who went two years in succession for that purpose , and afterwards gave the skeleton to Mr. HUNTER .
This animal had been known for 3o summers to come to the same rock , and lie basking in the sun ; it had a grey beard .
PLATE XXIX .
Is taken from the skull of a seal in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in Lincoln 's Inn Fields , presented by Mr. CHEVALIER : this proves to have been brought by Mr. KEARIN , in a Whaler , from New Georgia , near the ice towards the South Pole .
The circumstance of most importance in this communication is , that in all the three skulls the teeth differ in form : this may arise from the different kinds of food on which the animals lived .
From the Press of W , NICOL , Successor to tI .
BULMER and Co , Cleveland-row , St. James 's , London , cz !
K)j 0 : 0 C- ) K o'clczc , / zilTWZ , ZCJ1 z ?
-i toZ ' ich I _ ; -----§§ ------------ : -----=L------- : ----------- ?
------ ?
--- ?
-- ?
-------------- ?
-I iI Il j 4"./ -s / ./ ?
' V / U

