371 [ 882 3 'f the Perivisceral Fluid of the Sea- Urchin .
ind a dear fluid passes through .
This gives uo coagulum on dilution , mt the corpuscles , if removed from the filter and suspended m a saturated solution of sulphate of magnesia , exude abundance of the .oaffulable material on the addition of water .
This is not unlike the results obtained by Mr. Wooldridge in the Leipzig Laboratory with white corpuscles from the lymphatic glands and from the blood of I have spoken throughout of the substance , upon the formation or exudation of which from the corpuscles the clotting of the Echinus fluid seems to depend , as coagulable material , and not as fibnne .
It does not , in fact , either in its chemical reactions or m its microscopic characters , bear any sort of resemblance to the fibnne of vertebrate blood , but appears to be more nearly allied to mucin , although the possession by it of the remarkable property of spontaneously shrinking after its first formation gives it a deceptive similarity to fibrine .
The detailed account of the above investigation will be published m the " Journal of Physiology."+ III .
" Preliminary Note on the Structure , Development , and Affinities of Phoronis .
" By W. H. Caldwell , B.A. , Cams College , Cambridge , Demonstrator of Zoology .
Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. K.S. Received November 24 , 1882 .
Owing to the time that must necessarily elapse during the preparation of plates , it has seemed to me advisable to publish the following preliminary account of my observations on the anatomy and development of Phoronis .
These studies were made for the most part in the Zoological Station at Naples .
I am much indebted to Dr. Anton Dohrn for his great kindness and assistance .
I have not thought it necessary in this preliminary note to refer at any length to the observations of previous investigators , J and the bearing of the acts on recent morphological speculation has at most been indicated m the briefest possible manner .
I would , however , specially refer to some observations on the development made in the summei of 1 \#187 ; by Dr. Hatschek , who most generously not only sent me material , but on his return to Naples resigned his work and drawings to me .
* * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 32 , p. 413 ; and " Archiv .
f. ( Anat .
u. ) Physiol. , " 1881 .
t The opportunity for carrying on these observations was affoided me at Scottish Zoological Station of Professor J. Cossar Ewart and Mr. G. J. Romanes .
+ J. Muller , Wagener , Krolin , Gegenbaur , Schneider , Kowalewsky , Metschnikow , Claparede , 'Wright , Dyster , Van Beneden , McIntosh , Wilson , \amp ; c. Mr. W. H. Caldwell .
On ------ [ Dec. 7 , Unfortunately , I have been unable to confirm Dr. HatschekV account in several points .
To do justice to this , I reserve a fullj account of the controverted points for my complete paper , when ]i hope also to reproduce Dr. Hatschek 's figures of the living larvse* Structure of Adult Phoronis .
The mouth and anus are situated at one end .
The short line between them is the median dorsal line .
Between mouth and anus lies an epistome .
This epistome is the persistent prceoral lobe of the larva .
New tentacles of the lophophore round the mouth are added on either side of the median dorsal line .
There is a mesoblastic skeleton in the lophophore .
The ventral surface is produced into a " foot , " which constitutes the main part of the animal .
This determination of the surfaces depends on the development to be described below .
Epithelium , of the Body .
Nervous processes'of the ectoderm cells retain their connexion with the ectoderm , and concentrations , both of fibres and ganglion cells , occur in the skin outside the homogeneous basement membrane .
The central nervous system remains therefore in the epidermis , representing the primitive condition .
Concentrations of the nervous system take place round the mouth to form a postoral nerve-ring .
The anus lies outside this .
The ring follows the line along the base of the tentacles , and has therefore like them the form of a horse-shoe .
In front of this ring are situated a pair of sense organs , which I shall speak of as " ciliated pits .
" They lie in the concavity of the lophophore , on either side of the anus .
They have the characteristic structure of sensory epithelium , consisting of sense cell , ganglion , and nerve-fibres .
Sarsf has figured in Rhabdopleura a pair of ciliated protuberances in what I hope to show is an homologous position .
A further concentration takes place in the form of a cord , which runs from the median dorsal part of the nerve-ring two-thirds of the length of the foot along its left side .
It is therefore asymmetrical , and lies in the epidermis outside the basement membrane .
Inside this nerve-cord lies an apparently hollow tube .
This tube recalls the so-called large fibres of Cheetopoda .
The alimentary canal is in the form of a ciliated tube , which may * * It is not to be understood that Dr. Hatschek agrees with my account of the facts of development .
t Q- .
O. Sars , " On Rhabdopleura mirabilis , " " Q. J. M. S. , " vol. xiv , new series .
1882 .
] Structure , Development , and Affinities of 373 be divided into four main divisions , each characterised by a special epithelium :\#151 ; 1 .
( Esophagus .
2 .
1st stomach .
3 .
2nd stomach .
The"transition from the second to the third of these divisions is very marked .
The third forms a small strongly ciliated chamber where the gut doubles on itself at the end of the foot .
The Body-Cavity is lined throughout by peritoneum , which passes into mesenteries , dividing the cavity into several chambers .
There is a ventral mesentery extending the whole length of the foot , attaching the out-side of both descending and ascending limbs of the alimentary canal to the body-wall .
Besides this there are two lateral mesenteries , which pass from the sides of the stomach to the body-wall .
By these .
three mesenteries the body-cavity is divided into three chambers , viz. , two anterior and one posterior .
The lateral mesenteries end freely before the blind end of the foot is reached , so that all the chambers are here in full communication .
An important secondary connexion takes place some little way below the tentacles .
The intestine attaches itself to the left lateral mesentery , dividing it into two parts , a shorter , attaching the intestine to the stomach , and a longer , attaching the intestine to the body-wa 1 . .
Throughout the greater part of the foot this results in the posterior of the three chambers being divided into two .
The body-cavity is further divided by a septum , which passes from the line of the nerve-ring in the body-wall to the oesophagus , into two regions viz.(i , ) the space in front of the septum , the body-cavity in the epistome and the tentacles ; ( ii , ) the space behind the septum , i.e. , the rest of tne body-cavity .
Excretory System .
The genital pores discovered by Kowalewsky , by which he observed the ova to pass to the exterior , are the external openings of a pair of nephridia .
Each nephridium consists of a simple ciliated tube , whose cell-walls are filled with brown concretions .
The tube opens into the posterior chamber of the body-cavity on the\lt ; sides of the lateral mesen teries .
The external openings are situated in the regions subtended by the anterior divisions of the body-cavity .
Circulatory System .
A closed system of vessels , containing nucleated red corpuscles , is present .
Mr. W. H. Caldwell .
On | Dee , 7 , The main vessels are two in number .
The afferent vessel to the tentacles divides at the median dorsal ' region of the septum .
Each half passes into a vessel lying at the base of the tentacles From this ceecal vessels pass into these .
A second vessel lying outside the former is also by means of a valvular arrangement in communication with the same cseoal vessels in the tentacles .
From the outside ring on either side passes a lateral vessel to the ventral side of the oesophagus , where , joining its fellow of the opposite side in the left anterior division of the body-cavity , it runs as the single efferent vessel to the hind end of the foot , giving off numerous caecal vessels in its courseFurther , there is a sinus round the stomach .
This arrangement will be understood when its development is described below .
The walls of all the vessels are contractile .
Generative System .
The animals are hermaphrodite .
The ova and spermatozoa are formed from cells of the efferent blood-vessel , which runs in the left anterior chamber of the body-cavity .
Round this vessel lies the so-called li fat body , '1 which is composed of large cells developed on the wall of the caecal prolongation of the blood-vessel .
The ova and testis lie in this tissue on opposite sides of the main vascular trunk , Thus the nerve-cord and the generative cells are asymmetrically placed .
They lie on the left side of the foot .
Development .
The following is a brief summary of the more important points:\#151 ; 1 .
At the stage of four segmentation spheres , a division into two smaller clear and two larger opaque cells indicates the future ectoderm and endoderm .
, 2 .
The segmentation proceeds with considerable regularity , and results in a planula with half the cells smaller and less columnar than the other half .
3 .
Invagination of the larger cells almost obliterates the segmentation cavity , and a spherical gastrula with a blastopore is the final result of invagination .
The gastrula becomes oval by the growth-forwards of the ectoderm to form the praeoral lobe , and the blastopore persists as the mouth .
The mesoblast is formed bilaterally from the endoderm on either side of the blastopore .
From the time when two or three mesoblast cells are budded off on either side a eavity is present in each mass so formed .
These cavities are the two halves of the body-cavity .
I regard this 1882 .
] Structure , Development , and Affinities of 375 mode of origin of the body-cavity as a modification by simplification of the enteroccel type , as described by Kowalewsky , in Argiope.* Quite recently Metschnikowf has described the early stages of Phoronis .
His account is very different to that given above .
In the first place , he has not detected the origin of at least the main part of the mesoblast from the endoderm , as I have described .
Further , Metschnikow has figured a blastula with four mesoblast cells in the segmentation cavity .
Though I have made numerous complete series of sections through all stages of the blastula , I never have found any cells in the segmentation cavity .
I would offer the following explanation of Metschnikow 's account .
When the invagination to form the gastrula begins , the hypoblast ceils previously cylindrical become very irregular , and project pseudopodia-like into the segmentation cavity .
The free ends of these cells in actual sections are frequently cut off from their origin , and may then be mistaken for free cells lying in the segmentation cavity .
They , however , never contain the nuclei of the cells .
I would suggest that Metschnikow , who studied the development of Phoronis by means of optical sections of glycerine preparations of the whole larva , has mistaken these projecting ends of the amoeboid endoderm cells for mesoderm cells .
Rapid growth of the mesoblast " diverticulum " into the prteoral lobe takes place in such a way that distinct somatic and splanchnic layers , applied to the ectoderm and endoderm respectively , are easily to be recognised .
The cells soon become contractile , and the whole prseoral lobe almost immediately after its appearance becomes actively so .
The muscle cells have all the histological character of Mesenchyme , using this term in the sense used by the brothers Hertwig .
J Meanwhile the ectoderm becomes thickened in two regions\#151 ; 1 .
In the prseoral lobe .
2 .
In the form of a postoral ring round the mouth .
The former becomes the future nervous ganglion ; the latter indicates the position of the line of future tentacles and the circum-oesophageal nerve-ring of the older animal .
The anus is formed by a slight invagination of ectoderm behind the postoral ciliated ring on the opposite side of the body to that on which the mouth is placed , and is from the first terminal .
The four divisions of the alimentary canal are now apparent , i.e. , the hypoblast cells have taken on their characteristic form in the several regions of * A. Kowalewsky , " Protocol of the First Session of the United Sections of Anatomy , Physiology , and Comparative Anatomy at the Meeting of Russian Naturalists in Kasan , 1873 ( Russian ) .
" t " Z. f. Wiss .
Zool. " Ht .
IV , 1882 .
X " Die Coelom-theorie , " Jena , 1881 .
VOL. XXXIV .
2c .
Mr. W. H. Caldwell .
On [ Dec. 7 , the alimentary tract .
The cells of the first stomach , however , though ciliated , are much more amoeboid than in the adult .
Throughout larval life intra-cellular digestion goes on in this region .
This mode of digestion ceases with the metamorphosis .
With the formation of the anus this end of the body gradually grows out .
The papilla with the anus at its end enlarges , and finally forms the largest part of the full-grown larva .
Tentacles appear in pairs as outgrowths along the lines of the postoral ciliated ring , new tentacles appearing dorsally .
The further development of mesoblast proceeds always in continuity with the first pair of lateral diverticula .
The body-cavity of the hind end of the larva is formed independently in a paired mass of cells which grows out from the end of the first formed sacs , and remains separated from the latter by a septum .
Thus the whole mesoblast of the animal arises as two endodermic , the walls of which form somatic and splanchnic layers .
Nephridia .
On either side of the body lies a ciliated canal with cellular walls .
This canal is not formed of perforated cells .
Each canal opens to the exterior behind the septum on either side of the opening of the foot .
The canal lies outside the somatic mesoblast .
Attached to its inner blind end are a number of cells of very peculiar form .
Each cell has a nucleus and processes similar to those of ordinary mesoblast cells .
By one of these the cell is attached to the end of the large canal .
This process is larger than the free processes , and has a cylindrical form .
By the canal formed inside the cylinder , small brown concretions seen in the cell itself pass into the large canal , and so to the exterior .
These excretory cells , with their fine canals , increase in number with the growth of the larva .
They float freely in the body-cavity in front of the septum .
The cells are similar to the perforated cells which form the internal ends of the nephridia described by Hatschek in Echiurus.* At no time during the free swimming life of larva does the excretory canal system open into the body-cavity .
With regard to the development of the nephridia I have observed somatic mesoblast cells , at the time when the mesoblastic sacs of the trunk are forming , take the characteristic shape of excretory cells with cylindrical processes .
On the other hand , I have failed to discover the origin of the main ciliated canal- .
* Berthold Hatschek , " Ueber Entwick .
von Echiurus , " Arbeit , a. d. Zool. Instit .
Wien , vol. iii , 1880 .
1882 .
] Structure , Development , and Affinities 377 Dr. Hatschek believed that the whole organ was formed from the anesoblast cells mentioned above .
Vascular System .
The blood-vessels are all formed from the splanchnopleure .
The blood-corpuscles found in the vessels immediately after metamorphosis arise from mesoblast cells in front of the septum .
They form in masses which vary in number and position with the species , and lie free in the body-cavity held together by processes resulting from incomplete division .
Each corpuscle has a nucleus , :and with the growth of the larva the haemoglobin colour gradually develops .
The vessels arise as splits in the splanchnopleure .
The adult condition is reached partly by constrictions , partly by outgrowths from these .
Thus we have at the close of larval life the blood-system in the following condition:\#151 ; 1 .
Blood-corpuscles aggregated in two or more masses , lying free in the body-cavity of the praeoral lobe , i.e. , in front of the septum .
2 .
A blood-vessel formed on the dorsal wall of the stomach , a marked structure in the larva .
3 .
The splanchnopleure sac , which in the region of the stomach forms a loose sac surrounding the gut .
4 .
Caecal prolongations of this sac .
5 .
Caecal prolongations into the rudiments of the adult tentacles .
Lophophore .
The larval tentacles are produced in pairs always towards the dorsal line , so that the most dorsal are the youngest .
This is also the case in the adult Phoronis .
But the first rudiments of the adult set appear laterally , and new pairs are added both ventrally and dorsally to this pair , so that the -oldest adult tentacles are not the most ventrally situated .
Full-formed Larva and Metamorphosis .
Finally we get the full grown free swimming larva , whose chief .organs and their relative positions I shall briefly recapitulate .
The mouth and anus are at opposite ends of the ciliated body .
The mouth is overhung by a large praeoral lobe , whose margin is slightly thickened , and bears longer cilia than on the rest of the surface .
This .margin corresponds to the velum ( praeoral ring ) of other larva .
I reserve the discussion of KLleinenberg 's paper* on the origin of the * N. Kleinenberg , " Sull ' Origin del Sistema Nervoso Centrale degli Annelidi .
" JEteale Acad. d. Lincei , 1881 .
2 c 2 Mr. W. H. Caldwell .
On the [ Dec. 7 , .
nervous system , for my fuller paper .
The bearing of the facts of 1 Phoronis development on the question would involve matter of a too speculative character .
Suffice it to say , that if the nerve-ring of Phoronis represents the nerve-ring of Coelenterate ancestors , the prseoral lobe must be regarded as a development of an anterior region of the sub-umbrella , while the anus has been formed in the region of the umbrella .
The nervous elements of the ectoderm of the prseoral lobe in all species , are concentrated into a ganglion ( Scheitelplatte ) .
In some species a large number of nerve fibres pass forwards from it to a sense oi'gan .
In one species four eye-spots are present .
Behind the mouth an even number of tentacles form a postoral circlet .
Behind these , , and corresponding in number , lie rudiments of the adult tentacles .
Along a line immediately in front of the larval circle , the ectoderm cells have become vacuolated .
This change extends to a breadth of ' only three or four cells .
Along a line at the base of the rudiments of the adult tentacles , the nervous prolongations of the ectoderm have formed a definite ring .
Round the anus a ring of very columnar ectoderm bearing strong-cilia forms the chief organ of larval locomotion .
The mouth opens into an oesophagus , which leads into a stomach .
The stomach at its-anterior end is produced into one or two ventral recesses .
In the vacuolated walls of these structures brown concretions are-present .
The septum is attached in a circle along the line of the nerve-ring , and free communication exists between the body-cavity in front of the septum and the split in the splanchnopleure , which will form the blood sinus and vessels of the adult .
The condition of the rest of the vascular system we have already described in an old larva .
The muscular arrangement in the in vagi-nated foot is already similar to that in the adult .
The ventral mesentery still exists along the whole ventral surface from septum to anus .
The pair of nephridia lie on either side of the body , their numerous excretory cells floating freely in the body-cavity in front of the septum .
The external openings are placed one on either side of the opening of the foot .
The animal now swims to the bottom , and after swimming round and round many times on its own axis , and meanwhile undergoing violent contractions , suddenly begins to evaginate the foot .
In| fifteen to twenty minutes , a healthy individual will have become in all essential points like the adult .
During this time the following events take place :\#151 ; i. The whole prseoral lobe with ganglion and sense organs pass into the stomach by the oesophagus .
The rupture takes place along the line of vacuolated ectoderm mentioned above .
1882 .
] Structure , Development , and Affinities of Phoronis .
37i ) ii .
The larval tentacles follow the praeoral lobe .
iii .
The blood-corpuscles pass inside the splanchnopleure sac by the .opening described above , and break up in the sinus .
From this they pass by contractions of the sac into the caecal vessels and into the vessel which already exists in the dorsal side of the stomach .
iv .
The larval excretory cells of the nephridia break off from the large canal and float freely into the body-cavity in front of the septum .
They pass with the blood-corpuscles into the vessels .
The large |canals remain as the paired nephridia of the adult .
The external -openings by the changes undergone during the evagination have .already almost their adult position .
v. The body-wall of the anal cone ( at this stage ) becomes folded , so as to present the appearance of columnar epithelium .
By this process the invagination of the whole anal cone is rendered possible .
The original anus is now half-way up the course of the ascending limit of the alimentary tract inside the foot , and the adult position of the nerve-ring is thus brought about .
The ventral mesentery extends along the outer curve of the alimentary tract along its whole extent , attaching the foot to the body-wall .
At the end of the body it is seen in end view , apparently as a linear band , presenting a similar appearance to the funiculus of a polyzoon .
The ectoderm , from what has been said , must now re-attach itself by a secondary growth to the endoderm , along the lines where the praeoral lobe broke off .
In the stomach the disintegrated cells of the tentacles and the praeoral lobe with its ganglion and sense organs are now digested , not , however , by intercellular method , but , as in the adult , in the canal itself .
General Conclusions .
The life history of Phoronis , the chief points in which have been briefly mentioned , seems to offer a solution of many morphological problems .
These are of two kinds .
On the one hand we have those more general questions which concern the origin of various organs and systems of organs .
On the other those special problems which are concerned in solving \#171 ; the body plan of the different animal forms .
On the Origin of Organs and Organ Systems .
The condition of nervous concentrations in the ectoderm in Phoronis , both larval and adult , shows us how apparently new parts of the nervous system arise .
In Phoronis the praeoral ring , corresponding to the velum of a Mr. W. H. Caldwell .
[ Dec Trochosphsere , is from the earliest stages reduced relatively to +1 , postoral .
This latter , appearing in the gastrula stage , persists throughout life as a circumoesophageal ring .
No anterior dorsal sensory part of the-central nervous system exists in the adult .
The ganglion of the prteoral lobe which in Cheetopoda and Mollusca \amp ; c. , persists as the anterior sensory lobe of the brain , disappears with the change from a free to a fixed life .
r The ganglion sense organs and velum of the prseoral lobe are eaten during the metamorphosis .
The pair of sense organs are connected with the postoral nerve-ring .
In Capitellidae , Dr. Eisig has been kind enough to inform me , the nerves from the ciliated pits are connected not with the anterior lobes of the brain , but with the posterior part from which the circumceso-phageal commissures are given off .
Body-Cavity .
The whole body-cavity in the prseoral lobe and in the trunk is am enteroccel .
The closed vascular system is developed from the spanch-nopleure .
The intracellular excretory canals arise in somatic mesoblast cells .
The existence of two divisions of the excretory system , viz. , i* The intracellular closed canals ; ii .
Large intercellular canals ; ceases with the metamorphosis .
In Phoronis the atrophy of the intracellular system is coincident , with the development of the vascular system .
If the intracellular excretory system of larval Phoronis is homologous with the similar excretory system in Platyelminthes , there* is a presumption that the cavities in which the cells lie are homologous , that in fact Platyelminthes are degenerate enteroeoeles .
On the Relation of Phoronis to other Groups .
The most striking result of my researches on Phoronis is to give an explanation of the relation of Brachiopoda and Polyzoa to other* animals .
The identity of the Phoronis larva up to the formation of the nephridia , and before the outgrowth of the anal region , with the Trochosphaere type of Hatschek is complete .
In Phoronis the body-cavity is an enteroccel .
The distinction attempted to be drawn by the Hertwigs* between the histological characters of mesenchyme and mesoderm utterly breaks down in Phoronis^ I regard it , therefore , as probable that the other Trochosphaeres are* enterocceles .
# O. and E. Hertwig , loc. tit .
1882 .
] Structure , Development , and Affinities of Phoronis .
381 The larvje of Brachiopoda and Polyzoa I regard as modified from the Trochosphsere by the earlier attainment of the relation of the ventral surface which in Phoronis is only accomplished during the metamorphosis .
Phoronis and Brachiopoda .
The conception of the body plan of Brachiopoda arising in this way involves an entirely new view of the homologies of the body surfaces .
The following are the chief points which seem to me to determine these:\#151 ; 1 .
The prseoral lobe of the larva of Phoronis , and the so-called " segment " which bears the eye-spots in certain larval Brachiopoda* persist in part at least as the epistome of the adult .
2 .
There is a postoral nerve-ring in all the Brachiopoda I have examined ) situated as in Phoronis in the ectoderm .
3 .
In both the body-cavity of the prseoral lobe is separated from that of the rest of the body by a septum .
4 .
The " segments " of Brachiopoda are represented in Phoronis by the three divisions of the larva .
1 .
Prseoral lobe as far back as the septum .
2 .
The rest of the body to the anal ring .
3 .
The invaginated foot .
An evagination similar to that in Phoronis of the third " segment takes place in Brachiopoda when the larva fixes itself ( Morse , Terebra-tulina .
) 5 .
The tentacles arise from the line of the nerve-ring and are in the form of a horse-shoe , the outer curve of which is ventral .
In the middle of the inner curve there is a break in the continuity of the tentacles .
This interval is in the median dorsal line .
On either side lies one of the youngest pair of tentacles .
6 .
The rectum when present lies in the posterior of the three main divisions of the body-cavity formed by the ventral and two lateral mesenteries ( vide diagram B ) .
The nephridia open to the interior in the posterior , to the exterior in the region of the anterior chambers of the body-cavity .
7 .
The same four divisions of the intestine are formed in both Phoronis and Brachiopoda .
Finally , I would point out that the so-called segments of Brachiopoda are at light angles to the ordinary Ghcetopod segments .
This is easily seen to be the case by reference to the diagram , where AB represents the axis perpendicular to which ordinary segmentation takes place , CD that perpendicular to which Brachiopoda have been supposed to be segmented .
* Kowalewsky , loc. cit. [ Dec. 7 , Mr. W. H. Caldwell .
On the Brachiopoda are thus fixed by their ventral surface .
The dorsal surface is indicated by the epistome , and the had between mouth and anus ( when present ) .
Both valves of the shell are ventral .
Phoronis and Polyzoa .
With regard to the Polyzoa , the evidence owing to the simplification which has taken place in their structure is not obtainable in the same quantity .
I regard it , however , as probable that the epistome of Endoproct and Hippocrepian Polyzoa and the " foot " ( Bay Lankester ) in Rhabdopleura represent the preeoral lobe .
The dorsal surface in Polyzoa is indicated as in Phoronis by the line between mouth and anus .
If Phoronis , Brachiopoda , and Polyzoa have had segmented ancestors no trace of such remains in their ontogeny .
The discussion of the various views at present held on the Polyzoa and Brachiopoda must be deferred to my fuller paper .
So far as the facts of development and structure of Sipunculus and Phascolosoma are known , I see nothing to show that these forms are not referable to the same type of body structure as Phoronis , Brachiopoda , and Polyzoa .
On the other hand , it seems quite possible that they may be further stages in degeneration from forms like Echiurus , which , after the researches of Hatschek , seem to be degenerated Chsetopoda .
1882.1 Structure , Development , and Affinities of Pfioronis .
383 Two diagrams to illustrate the body plan of Phoronis , Brachiopoda , and Polyzoa .
A. Longitudinal vertical section through the adult animal .
B. Longitudinal horizontal section through the adult animal .
JE.p .
Prseoral lobe or epistome .
m. Mouth .
a. Anus .
os .
( Esophagus .
s.t. First stomach .
p. Second stomach .
r. Intestine .
v.t. Right tentacle of ventral pair .
y.t. Bight tentacle of dorsal pair .
p.b.c. Body-cavity of head .
f.b.c. Body-cavity of foot .
N.r. Postoral nerve-ring .
v.m. Yentral mesentery .
l.m. Lateral mesentery .
n. Nephridium .
JE.o .
External opening of nephridium .
i.o. Internal opening of nephridium .
p.d. Posterior chamber of body-cavity .
l.a.d. Lateral anterior divisions of body-cavity .
V.V. and D.Y. Yalves of Brachiopod shell .
A.B. Bepresents axis perpendicular to which ordinary segmentation takes place .
C. D. Bepresents axis perpendicular to which Brachiopoda have been supposed to be segmented .

