]\gt ; 1886 .
] On the of ication .
191 It seems best therefore in this , as well as other cases , omit the terms involving cosines of odd multiples of 3 .
As regards the observations with the artificial surface in water , the coefficients of the cosines in the expression for the azimuths and of the sines in the expression for the polarising angles are insensibly small , indicating no introduction of .
metry with respect to the principal plane arising from the process of polishing .
The coefficients of the cosines of odd multiples of in the second expression are ako insensible .
The constant term in the first expression , representing ( on the assumption of symmetry with respect to the principal plane ) the index error of the circle carrying the Nicol , agrees almost exactly with those obtained for the cleavage surfaces in air and water .
It would seem best then to omit those terms which we have reason to think are really , and which the observations show to be at any rate extremely small , and to exhibit the final result accordingly .
, 1886 .
; Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks for them .
The following Papers were read : I. " " On the Theory of Lubrication and its Application to .
Beauchamp Tower 's Experiments , includin an Experimental Determination of the Viscosity of Olive Oil By Professor REYNOLDS , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 29 , 1881 Lubrication , or the action of oils and other viscous fluids to diminish fi.iction and wear between solid surfaces , does not appear to have hitherto formed a subject for theoretical treatment .
Such treatment may have been prevented by the obscurity of the physical actions involved , which belong to a class as yet but little known , namely , the boundary or surface actions of fluids ; but the absence of such treatment has also been owing to the want of any general revealed by experiment .
The subject is of such fundamental portance in practical mechanics , and the opportunities of ation so frequent , that it Prof. O. Reynolds .
[ Feb. 11 , may well be a matter of surprise that any geIteral laws should have for so long escaped detection .
Besides the general.experience obtained , the friction of lubricated SUl.faces has been the subject of much experimental investigation by able and careful experimenters ; but although in many cases empirical laws have been propounded , these fail for the most part to agree with each other and with the more general experience .
The most recent investigation is that of Mr. Tower , undertaken at the instance of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers .
Mr. Tower 's first report was published in November , 1883 , and his second in 1884 Proc. Inst. Mechanical Engineers these reports Mr. Tower , making no attempt to formulate , states the esults of experiments apparently conducted with extreme care , and under very various and well-chosen circumstances .
Those of the results which were obtained under the ordinary conditions of lubrica- tion so far agree with the rosults of previous investigators as to show of any regularity .
But one of the causes of this want of regularity , egularity in the supply of lubricant , appears to have occurred bo Mr. Tower early in his vestigation , and led him to include amongst his experiments the unusual circumstance of surfaces completcly immersed in an oil-babh .
This was very fortunate , for not only do results so obtained sbow a great degree of regularity , bm while making these experiments he was accidentally led to observe a phenomenon which , taken with the results of his experiments , amounts to a lcial proof that in these experiments with the oil-bath the surfaces were completely and continuously separated by a film of oil ; this film being maintained by the motion of the journal , the pressure of the oil at the crown of the bearing was shown by actual measurement to be as much as 625 lbs. per square inch above the pressure in the oil-bath .
These results with the oil-bath are very , notwithstanding that the condition is not common in practice .
They show that with perfect lubrication a definite law of the variation of the friction with the pressure and the velocity holds for a particular journal and brass .
This strongly implies that the irregularity previously found was due to imperfect lubrication .
Mr. Tower has brought this out .
Substituting for the bath an oily pad of tow pressed against the free part of the journal , and making it so slightly greasy that it was perceptible to the touch , he again found considerable regularity in the results .
These were , however , very different from those with the bath .
Then with intermediate lubrication he obtained intermediate results , of which he says : " " Indeed , the results , generally speaking , were so uncertain and irregular that they may be summed up irr a few words .
The friction depends on the quantity and uniform distribution of the oil , and may be anything between the oil-bath results from tquare oocity tatioassumed tcase.tudy oehaviour onarrow ction buthor oocity ahich thangesthe speed iluids , there iothing reingaccording tawthe square oocity , whereas iquations oodynamicsaccording theory oluid friction tesistance wsfor tnknown boundary actions tisappear , hich chein tbath tmight bubric.ationand seizi.accordi terfection omperfection oonConsidering hesistance aquare ohave considered temarks teading MTower seport , ccurred tuthor t shows that with such highly viscous fluids as oils , such small spaces as those existing between the journal and its bearing , and such limited velocities as that of the surface of the journal , the resistance wouId vary , coeteris panbus , as the velocity .
And further , the thickness of the oil film would not be uniform , and might be affected by tlIe velocity , and as the resistance would vary , coeteris paribus , inversely as the thickness of the film , the velocity might exert in this way a * secondary influence on the resistance ; and further still , the resistanco would depend on the viscosity ( commonly called the body ) of the oi ] , and this depends on the temperature .
But as .
Tower had been careful to make all his experiments in the same series}with something at a temperature of F. ( he does not state precisely what ) , it did not at first appear that there could be any considerable temperature effect in his resuIts .
The application of hydrodynamical equations for viscous fluids to circumstances similar to those of a iournal and a brass in an oil-bath , in so far as they are known , at once led to an equation*between the xistence oritish Aears fvariation oressure ourface aocity , which.hich intensi ypressure , coefficient oiscosity , ection offor which tessure imaximum , urface vocit iection omotion , between thThis equation wentioned ipaper refor.ection A Prof. O. Reynolds .
[ Feb. 11 , that Prof. Stokes and Lord Rayleigh had simulta , neously arrived at a similar resuIt .
At that time the author had no idea of attempting the integration of this equation .
On subsequent consideration , however , it that the equation might be so transformed* as FIG. 1 .
the journal and brass are of circular section , as in fig. 1 , and is the dius of the journal , of brass , the centre of the journal , I the celltre of the brass , , HG the shortest distance across the film , IO the line of loads the middle of the brass , A the extremity of the brass on the off side , on the on side , the point of greatest pressure , Putting OIH OIP the equation ( 31 ) becomes . . . .
' is small .
This equation , which is at once integrable when is small , has been integrated by approximation when is as large as The friction is given by an equation .
Ihis is roximatel integrated up to rass thickness oyrise iemperature owhich hscaped tonsidering teans oscape oppearedeither toundary actions became shere mused teasure temperature owhich acoming friction ipent iertain , andwhich tesistance increased amuch sower rhatand hence ioefficient oiscosity wonstant tesistanceconstant fxtreme vivided bncrease aompared wheto bntegrated bonsidering certain qubrication .
That there.xcess oemperature iccordance wxperiments , the oil-bath and the film of oil , : probabls that there would be a difference of several degrees betweeu This increase of tcmperatnre would be attended with a diminution of viscosity , so that as the resistance and temperature increased with the velocity there would be a diminution of viscosity , which would cause the increase of the resistance with the velocity to be less than S the simple ratio .
it was necessary to know the exact relation between the viscosity of In order to obtain a quantitative estimate of these secondary effects , 5 the oil and the temperature .
For this purpose an experimental deter : mination was made of the viscosity of olive oil at different temperatures as compared with the known viscosity of water .
From the result of these experiments an empirical formula has been deduced and and have to be determined from the conditions of equilibrium , which are . . . . .
44 . . .
where is the angle subtended by the brass , the load , and the moment of .
friction .
The solution of these equations when is small and has been approximately accomplished for particular values of up to , the boundary con ; ditions as regards being values of the friction and values of the pressure are obtained .
whence substituting the values of in ( 48 ) and ( 49 ) , and integrating , the Prof. O. Reynolds .
[ Feb. 11 , for the viscosity of olive oil at all temperatures between and Besides the effect on the temperature might , owing to the different expansion of brass and iron , produce a sensible effect on the small difference in the radii of the brass and journal , i.e. , on the mean thickness of the film , was taken for the coefficient of this effect , and since , owing to the elasticity of the material , the radius old probably alter slightly with the load , taken as a coefficient for this effect , whence is given by an equation in terms of , its value with no load and a temperature zero .
Substituting these values in the equations , the values of the ) sure and friction deduced from the equations are functions of the temperafure , which may be then assumed , so as to bring the calculated results accord with tlJe experimental .
There was , however , another method of arriving , if not at the actual , at a law connecting them with the frictions , Ioads , and velocities .
For the rise in temperature was caused by the vork spent in overcoming friction , while the heat thus hoenerated had to be carried or conducted away from the oil film .
Consideration of this work and the means of escape gave another equation between the of temperature , the friction , and velocity .
The values of the constants in this equation can only be ] surmised from these experiments , without determining them by substituting the experimental values of , and , as previously determined , but it was then found that the iments with the lower loads gave remarkably consistent values for and , which was also treated as arbitrary .
In proceeding to the higher loads for which the values of were greater , the agreement between the calculated and experimental results was not so close , and the divergence increased as increased .
On careful examination , however , it appeared that this discordance would be removed if the experimental frictions were all reduced 20 per cent. This implied that 20 per cont .
of the actual friction arose from sources which did not affect the pressure of the film of oil ; such a source would be the friction of the ends of the brass against flangef ; on the shaft commonly inch being unit .
, a pound unit of force , and a second unit of time , for olive oil . . . . .
( 8 ) . . . . . . . .
( 117 ) . . . . .
( 120 ) represents the rate at which the mechanical equivalent of ]leat is carried per unit rise of temperature ; represents the rate at which it is condu away .
1886.On the Theory of Lubrication .
197 used to keep the brass in its place , or by any irregularity in the longitudinal section of the journal or brass .
Although no direct reference is made to such flanges in Mr. Tower 's reports , it is such a common custom to neck the shaft to form the journal that there is great probability of the flanges being used .
A coefficient has therefore beeu introduced into the theory , which includes both the effect of necking and of irregnJarity in longitudinal section .
Giving the , the calculated resuIts came into accordamce with all Mr. Power 's results for olive oil , the difference such as might well be attributed to experimental inaccuracy , and this both as regards the frictions measured with one brass , No. 1 , and the distribution of the pressur round the journal another , No. 2 .
Not only does the theory thus afford an explanation of the very novel phenomena of the pressure in the oil film , but it also shows , what does not ppear in the experiments , how the various circumstances under which the experiments have been made affect the ; results .
Two circumstancef ; in particular which are brought out as principal cumstances by the theory seem to have hitherto entirely escaped notice , even that of Mr. Tower .
One of these is , the difference in the radii of the journal and of the brass or bearing .
It is well known that the fitting between the journal and its bearing produces a great effect on the carrying powel of the journal , but this fitting is supposed to be rather a matter of $ smoothness of surface than a degree of difference in radu .
The radius of the bearing must always be as much larger than that of the journal as is necessary to secure an easy fit , but more than this doeil not seem to have besn suggested .
It now appears from this theory that if viscosity were constant the friction would be inversely proportional to the difference in the radii of the beal.ing and journal , and this although the arc of contact is less than the semi-circumference ; and taking temperature into account it appears from the comparison of the theoretical frictions with the experiment on brass No. 1 , that the difference in tho radii at F. lvas , and comparing the theoretical presslJres with those with brass No. 2 , ( inch ) , or the difference was 9 per cent. greater in the case of brass No. 2 .
These two brasses wore obably both bedded to the journal in the samewayVOL .
XL ' and neither beenn subjected reat amount of wear , so .
that there is nothing surprising in their being so nearly the 1886 .
] On the Theor.1/ .
199 esult , with such slight amounts of using as those in Mr. Tower 's experiments before reversal , seems doubtful , but supposing the brass new , and the surface more or less unequal , the wear for some time would be considerable , even after the initial tendency to heat had disappeared .
Hence it is not surprising that the effect should have eventually seemed to disappear .
The circumstances which determine the greatest load which a bearing will with complete lubrication , i. e. , with the oil film continuous between brass and journal throughout the arc , are definitely shown in the theory , so long as the brass has a circular section .
As the ratio of the load to velocity increases JI or increases , and the poinl approaches , when reaches the value , which makes GH , the pressure of the oil in the film is everyvhere greater than at A and , the pressure in the bath , but for a further increase in the load the pressure falls near A on the off side , the fall will cause the pressure to become less than that of the atmohown iheory , which iistance oence after tupture tpproach , xtend upointthe 1east separating distance tifferencethe obear depends oircumstances which aincreases Tince tmount oegative pressure wimit oication ihich cortion aeases oocity diminishes , eextend betwee.rass aourna.over aportion oinuity oupture occurs.then oyspbere , uffi.cient tecome aegative , discon .
1ray still be equilibrium , entirely separated from the journal , and question as to whether it will carry a greater load without descending on to the journal will depend on the relative values of and on eSame Wsufficient mseen trfect 1ubricati ; hese bffected , heory whowever insufficient fubrication , upporting fouch t the smallness of the velocity .
The condition then becomes the same as that for imperfect lubrication , and except in the case of being very small , theory shows that the ultimate limit to the load will be the erfecb onuses areementame aamongst these causes iTower hointedeory a and the variety of the conditions as to magnitude of load , speed , and dilection of motion .
with a constant radius requires either that there should be no tvear at That abrass in continuous use should acircular section these eriments , however , there ivery reason tuppose them Mperiments , there seems toint PtoExper nhows there irdinary practice , wear would have been approximately proportional to , because this represents the approach of the brass to the journal within the mean distance , for all points except those at which it is negative , at these there would bs either no wear at all or ' a slight positive wear .
So long , then , as the journal ran in one direction only , the wear would tend to preserve the radius and true circulax form of that portion of the arc from A to ( fig. 1 , note ) , altering the radius at , and enlarging it from to B. On reversal , however , A and change sides , and hence alternate motion in both directions would preserve the radius constant all over the brass .
* * The experience emphasised by Mr. Tower , that the journal , aftel running for some time in one direction , would not run at first in the other , strongly out this conclusion .
Hence it follows that had lubrication , as shown by the distribution of oil pressure round the thejournal been continuously run in one direction , the condition of journal , would have been moditied , the pressure falling between and on the on side of the journal , a conclusion which is borne out by the , fact that in the experiments with brass No. 2 , which run for some lime continuously in one direction , the pressure measured on the on side is somewhat below that calculated on the assumption of circular : form , although the agreement is close for the other four points .
1886 .
] in the Glands of the Dog and Cat. 203 whether the action can be continuous or not turns on whether the motion tends to preserve the foreign matter between the surfaces at the points of pressure , as in the almost if not quite unique case of the revolving journal , or tends to remove it , and sweep it on one side , as is the action of all backward and forward rubbing with continuous pressure .
The fact that a little grease will enable any surfaces to slide for a time has tended doubtless to obscure the action of the revolving journal to maintain the oil between the surfaces at the point of pressure , and yet , although only now understood , it is this action that has alone endered machinery or even carriages possible .
The only other self-acting system of lubrication is that of reciprocating motion with intermittent pressure and separation of the surfaces to dra , the oil back or to draw a fresh supply .
This is important in certain machinery , as in the steam-engine , and is as fundamental to animal mechanism as is the continuous lubricating action of the journal to mechanical contrivances .
II .
' The Electrical Phenomena accompanying the Process of Secretion in the Salivary Glands of th ' Dog and Cat By W. MADDCCK BAYLISS , .
and J. ROSE BRADFORD , B.Sc. , Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy in University College , London ( from the Physiological atory of University College ) .
Communicated by E. A. SCHAFER , F.R.S. Received February 4 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The glands examined were the submaxillary and pal.otid of the dog and cab , and in all of these we have determined that the process of secretion is accompanied by definite electrical changes ; as , however , the submaxillary gland both in the dog and cat has been more thoroughly examined than the parotid , the present communication is confined almost entirely to the former .
The chorda tympani and sympathetic nerves were exposed in the usual manner , divided , and the peripheral ends arranged for stimulation , a canula being placed in Wharton 's duct .
The submaxillary gland having been exposed was led off in the following manner .
One non.polarisable electrode was placed on the superficial or cutaneous aspect of the gland , and the second electrode so in the wound as to touch the deep surface of the gland as close to the hilus as possible without pressing on the duct .
A Thomson galvanometer of high resistance was used .

