I. " On the Attraction of the Himalaya Mountains , and of the elevated region beyond them , upon the Plumb-line in India .
" By the Venerable JOHN HENRY PRATT , M.A. , Archdeacon of Calcutta .
Communicated by the Rev. Professor CHALLIS , M.A. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received October 23 , 1854 .
The author commences by observing that it is now well known that the attraction of the Himalaya Mountains , and of the elevated region beyond them , has a sensible influence on the plumb-line in North India .
This circumstance was brought to light during the progress of the great trigonometrical survey of that country .
It was found by triangulation that the difference of latitude between the two extreme stations of the northern division of the arc , namely Kalianpur and Kaliana , is 5§ 23 ' 421'f294 , whereas astronomical observations show a difference of 5§ 23 ' 37"-058 , which is 5"t236 less than the former .
That the geodetic operations are not in fault , appears from this ; that two bases , about 7 miles long , at the extremities of the arc having been measured with the utmost care , and also the length of the northern base having been computed from the measured length of the southern one , through a chain of triangles extending about 370 miles , the difference between the measured and the computed lengths was only 0*6 of a foot , which would produce , even if wholly lying in the meridian , a difference of only 0"'006 in the latitude .
The difference 5"'236 must therefore be attributed to some other cause .
A very probable cause presents itself in the attraction of the superficial matter which lies in such abundance on the north of the Indian arc .
It is easily seen that this disturbing force acts in the right direction , that is , it diminishes the difference of astronomical latitude between the two stations .
Whether the cause here assigned will account for the error in the difference of latitude in quantity as well as in direction , is the question which the author proposes to discuss in the present paper .
It might seem at first sight that if mountain attraction were so influential as is here supposed , it would disturb the geodetic operations , since in observing the altitude or depression of one station as seen from another , the error in the plumb-line must come into calculation .
The author shows , however , by mathematical calculation , that the effect of mountain attraction on the geodetic operations is perfectly insensible , so that it is clearly the astronomical operation of finding the difference of latitude that requires the correction .
This is further apparent from the results obtained by Colonel Everest on attempting to determine the azimuths of the arc at seven stations astronomically .
To show the importance of considering mountain attraction in the delicate problem of the figure of the earth , the author investigates the effect of a small error in the difference of latitude of the extremities of an arc on the deduced value of the earth 's ellipticity .
As two unknown quantities occur in the determination of the spheroid of revolution which most nearly agrees with the earth , namely a the equatorial radius and E the ellipticity , two arcs are required in order to determine them .
The author selects the Russian arc , measured near North Cape , as the most advantageous with which to combine the northern portion of the Indian arc , and shows that an error of 5/ f236 in defect in the amplitude of the latter would diminish the value of the ellipticity resulting from the two by about the 2-5th part of the whole .
If the effect of mountain attraction be as great as the author calculates it to be , ( 15"'885 in the northern portion of the Indian arc , ) the ellipticity would be diminished by I s , and even by as much asif the whole Indian arc from Kaliana to Damargida were 6 employed .
The author then proceeds , first to develope his method of calculation , and then to reduce his formula to numbers , according to the best data which he was able to collect .
An expression is first investigated for the horizontal attraction of a prism of the earth 's crust standing on a given small base , having a small height , and situated at a given angular distance ( measured from the centre of the earth ) from the station , A , at which the attraction is sought .
In the cases to which this expression is employed it reduces itself without sensible error to cos ( o ) , where M is the attracting mass , a the chord joining its base with A , and 0 the angle subtended by this chord at the earth 's centre .
In applying this expression to the problem in hand , the author divides the earth 's surface into lines , by vertical planes passing through at equal angular distances .
These lines are further subdivided by small circles having A for their common pole , and in this manner cutting the whole surface into curvilinear quadrilaterals .
He then investigates what the law of dissection must be , that is , according to what law the radii of the small circles must be taken to increase , in order that the horizontal attraction of the portion of the crust standing on one of the quadrilaterals may be equal to the product of its average height and density by a constant quantity , independent of the distance of the quadrilateral from A. If a and a+ be the angular radii of two consecutive small circles , there results i cos 2(1ia+- !
?s(2-a _ 4)-=a constant quantity=c .
sin ( a+§§ ) 1 To fix the value of this constant , the author assumes =-10 a when 4 ?
and a are indefinitely small , which gives c=-- .
The above equation may then be solved numerically with sufficient approximation .
In this manner a table is calculated of the radii of the successive small circles .
These distances should be laid down , and the circles drawn , on a map or globe , as well as the lines dividing the surface into lines .
Nothing then remains to be done but to ascertain the average heights of the masses standing on the compartments thus drawn .
The author 's paper was accompanied by a plate representing an outline of the continent of Asia .
On this was laid down a polygonal figure DEFGHIJKL , ( which for convenience the author calls the " enclosed space , " ) marking the boundary of an irregular mass , which is the only part of the earth 's surface that appears to have a sensible effect on the plumb-line in India .
The boundary of this space is thus defined : DEF is the Himalaya range , having a bend at E from north-west on the left , to east-by-south on the right .
FG is a range running to the tableland of Yu-nan in lat. 25 ?
and long .
103 ? .
GH is the range of the Yun-Ling mountains , in which there are many peaks of perpetual snow .
HI is the Inshan range .
IJ is the Khing-khan range , very steep on the east side , not so on the west ; the passes are said to be 5525 feet above the sea .
JK is the Altai range , the highest peak of which is 10,800 feet ; the average height is 6000 : the range declines towards the east .
KL was once thought to be a range of mountains , but is now found to be a line of broken country .
LD is the Bolor range , rising to an elevation similar to that of the Hindoo Koosh .
There are besides these two ranges of mountains running into the enclosed space , parallel to the Altai and Southern Himalayas , namely the Thian-Schan range , or Celestial Mountains , and the Kuen-Luen range , being a continuation of the Hindoo Koosh , which rises from an altitude of 2558 feet.near Herat to about 20,000 where it meets the Bolor range .
It is , however , with the elevation of the enclosed space itself that we are principally concerned , since ranges of mountains have not so important an influence , when distant , as table-lands of elevation .
Before describing the country within these limits , the author gives a general sketch of the parts which lie outside , from which it appears that the calculations may be confined to the enclosed space .
He then describes in detail the nature of the country within the boundaries of the enclosed space , commencing with the Himalayas , which rise abruptly from the plains of India to 4000 feet and more , and cover an extensive broken space some 100 or 200 miles wide , rising to great heights ; perhaps 200 summits exceed 18,000 feet ; the highest reaches to more than 28,000 .
The general base on which these peaks rest rises gradually to 9000 or 10,000 feet , where it abuts on the great plateau north of the range .
The character of the country to the south of this plateau is much better known than that to the north .
If a circle with a radius 5 ?
'046 ( the value of one of the radii employed in the dissection ) be drawn around Kaliana , it will pass over the highest part of this plateau .
This circle divides the enclosed space into two portions , of which the southern is called by the author the " Known " and the northern the " Doubtful Region .
" The effects of the two portions are separated in the calculation by the introduction of an arbitrary factor .
After describing the doubtful region , as far as was possible from the data to which he had access , the author assumes , as the best general representation of the facts , that to the north of a line running through Leh and H'Lassa the doubtful region slopes gradually from 10,000 feet down to 2500 along a parallel line nearly in its centre , and then rises again at the same angle to the north , and that the portion to the south of the line first mentioned , and not included in the known region , slopes at four times that rate .
The author then proceeds to numerical summations replacing an integration to be extended over the whole of the enclosed space .
The breadth of the lines employed in the calculation is taken at 30 ?
, which is shown not to be too large to give good results .
The following are the results obtained : Arising from Known Doubtful Station A , Kaliana .
region .
region .
Total .
Deflexion of plumb-line in meridian 12'972 14'881 27'853 Correction of same for every 100 0312 026 0'312 0'260 feet of change in heights ... Deflexion of plumb-line in prime } 8136 8)806 16 942 vertical ... ... ... ... ... ... Station B , Kalianpuro Defiexion in meridian ... ... ... .
3'219 8'749 11-968 Correction for 100 feet ... ... ... .
0-059 0158 Deflexion in prime vertical ... ... 0'789 3-974 4-763 Station C , Damargida .
Deflexion in meridian ... ... ... .
1'336 5-573 6*909 Correction for 100 feet ... ... ... .
0-022 0 100 Deflexion in prime vertical ... ... 0*000 2*723 2*723 whence there results , Total deflexion at A-32-601 , and in azimuth 31 18 East .
Total deflexion at B=12'880 , and in azimuth 21 42 East .
Total deflexion at C= 7'426 , and in azimuth 21 31 East .
Difference of meridian deflexions at A and B= 15*885 .
Difference of meridian deflexions at A and C=20'944 .
Difference of meridian deflexions at B and C= 5'059 .
The first of these differences is considerably greater than 5"'236 , the quantity brought to light by the Indian Survey .
The author then examines these values more minutely , and considers the effect of various hypotheses for reducing them .
In the first place , the density of the attracting mass may have been assumed too large .
The density assumed is 2 75 that of distilled water , the value assumed as the mean density of the mountain Schehallien in the calculations of Maskelyne .
This can hardly be too great , but at any rate no remarkable supposition relative to the density can reduce the attraction by more than a small fraction of the whole .
Next , the mass of the doubtful region may have been assumed too great .
This hypothesis is then examined by the author , who concludes that even the extravagant supposition of the non-existence of that region will not reduce the difference of meridian deflexions at A and B lower than to 91'753 .
A third means of reduction may be looked for in the known region .
A large part of the attraction belonging to this region arises from the Great Plateau .
It would be necessary to cut down this plateau as much as 6000 feet to reduce the deflexions at A and B to 5 " 236 , even were the whole mass on the doubtful region non-existent ; so that it appears to be quite hopeless , by any admissibleb hypothesis relative to heights , densities , &amp;c. , to reduce the calculated deflexion so as to make it tally with the error brought to light by the survey .
After entering into some elaborate calculations confirmatory of the previous results , the author concludes by calculating the form of the Indian arc , that is , by determining what spheroid of revolution , the axis of revolution being the earth 's axis , -would most nearly coincide with that arc without reference to the rest of the earth , the data employed being the lengths and amplitudes of the northern and southern portions of the arc , and of course their sum , and likewise the latitudes , or at least approximate latitudes , of the middle points of the arcs .
By using the amplitudes uncorrected for mountain attraction , the author obtains for the value of the ellipticity deduced from the Indian arc alone 193 , nearly agreeing with 1 , ,,9 which is Col. Everest 's result ; but by using the amplitudes corrected for mountain attraction according to the author 's calculation , the ellipticity is reduced to 42 .
He concludes that the arc is more curved than it would be if it had the mean ellipticity of the earth , and regards the supposition of a general deviation of the earth 's surface in that region from the mean spheroidal form as the most satisfactory mode of accounting for the discrepancy .

