]\gt ; the length of the lamina , the density of the fluid .
He claims that his results fairly well with experimental results obtaineu ' by Lilienthal .
The same mula has been obtained independently by .
Dr. Tschapligin*for a general case .
He considers an aerofoil with a section of known contour .
Dr. Joukovsky has also investigated the problem , and has obtained interesting contours for the sections of an aerofoil and a strut by representing a circle conformally .
He obtains the force acting perpendicular to the motion of the immersed body in the form being the circulation around the known contour , the velocity , and the density of the fluid .
Blasius applies the methods of the Theory of Functions to hydrodynamical problems related to the above .
The section of the body to be examined is conformally represented as a curve , the motion around which can be determined .
All these problems treat , however , of motion in an infinite fluid .
Prof. L. Prandtl ( of Gottingen ) pointed out that it would be advisable to consider the motion of a stream of finite.breadth flowing past a body , and the author 's thanks are due to him for gesting the lines on which the investigation should be carried out .
The problem resolves itself into two cases , which will in turn be considered .
First the boundaries of the stream are supposed to be free , and secondly the fluid is taken to be flowing in a channel with rigid boundaries .
The method follows somewhat the lines taken by Blasius , the motion is two-dimensional , and is supposed to be symmetrical with respect to the plane of symmetry of the immersed body .
We start with the hodograph of a hypothetical motion and proceed to expressions giving the contour of ths section of the body consistent with this motion .
* Mbscauer Mathematische Sammlung , ' vol. 28 1910 ) .
'Zeitwhrift fur Flugtechnik .
Motorluftschiffahrt , ' Nowember 26 , 1910 .
'Zeitschrift fur Math. .
Physik , ' 1910 and 1911 .
Mr. E. Jones .
The required relation between and is easily seen to be where is a constant the distance of the point in fig. 3 to ( fig. 2 ) from the origin in ) .
lies as before on the real axis , the positions of A and are not known .
Now transform fig. 3 so that the slit OF becomes a circle , radius in the FIG. 3 .
FIG. 4 .
plane ( fig. 4 ) .
If the length of the slit be , the required transformation formula is easily shown to be From the symmetry of the problem , the arcs and are equal , and represent \mdash ; and infinity in the plane , i.e. the regions from which the fluid comes and into which it goes respectively .
Hence we assume a source and a sink to exist at and ( fig. 4 ) respectively , and find a fluid motion in the plane containing the circle DED'F and as closed stream-lines , and to be made up in part by the source and sink .
We first of all suppose a circulation about the origin introduced ; this will not disturb the stream-line EDFD ' of the soqrce and sink .
To obtain the closed curve , we assume a uniPorm stream to flow from \circ ; e round the circle EDFD ' .
These three motions , ) erposed , satisfy the required conditions , and the complex potential of the motion in the plane is where are the -ordinates of , A the strength of the source and 112 Mr. R. Jones .
change by when the integration extends round the contour , and thus not left single-valued .
We rid ourselves of this difficulty by so chopsing that these terms vanish .
From ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , ( 9 ) where and are the roots of ; hence , on integrating ( 41 we have terms involving Either or corresponds to the point ( fig. outside the contour , and , since , the other musG lie within the circle .
Lt that point be The four points , and , lie within the contour around which we integrate , and consequently each of the first four integrals ( 10 ) is equal to , whereas the other two vanish .
Collecting together the coefficients of these terms , and remembering that has to vanish when taken round the contour , the following equation for is derived:\mdash ; , ( 11 ) where Let us write ( this only fixes our scale ) and integrate ( 4 ) .
Then , . .
( 12 ) The terms in vanish iu virtue of 11 ) .
When by ( 2 ) .
This corresponds to , fig. 3 .
If COF ( fig. 2 ) then 1 ' ( fig. 2 ) is the point , hence by ( 1 ) S. Consider Then and FIO .
5 .
and if the thickness of the stream be , then Hence if be given , the constant A depends on the thickness of the stream .
Again consider .
( 17 ) On substituting , and ( fig. A and this equation gives , as before , S , the direction of the stream at infinity .
Now , if instead of substituting , we substitute the values of and obtained from ( 7 ) or ( 8 ) , we can find the angle between the tangent at the edge of the body and the line joining the extremities of the section .
To simplify the formulae , let us put We have seen that is small and of the same order as ( A and being finite ) , hence is small by the first of the equations ( 8 ) ; we therefore neglect in ( 17 ) .
If be the angle between the tangent at the edge of the body and the chord But from th second of the equations 8 ) , hence also momentum is , hence by to the axis is As a test on the analysis , the alternative analytical method has also been worked out .
around the contour .
Therefore ; and are known in terms of , hence Splitting up by partial fractions , and remembering that and whereas the others vanish , reduces to on making use equation ( 11 ) .
Therefore , since but , therefore We have seen that when , A is infinite and , assuming the circulation to be finite , that A is finite and equal to B. Substituting in we obtain for an infinite fluid , or for finite values of A and .
( ii ) Stream with Straight Rigid Boundaries .
We proceed to treat in a similar way the motion of the fluid in a channel with fixed walls .
Fig. 6 represents the plane , denoting the section of the body and the channel .
hodograph diagram ) is given in fig. 7 .
*Compare Joukovsky , Mr. R. Jones .
This has to vanish round the contour as before , and the : corresponding to ( 11 ) is For purposes of approximation , we will assume that the change of velocityin the neighbourhood of the body is small compared to the velocity infinity , and small compared to , and neglect terms of the second order in is as before taken to be the smaller root of hence is small .
The approximate expression for reduces to ' the origin being changed as in ( 15 ) , and use being made of ( 22 ) .
This equation after equating real and imaginary parts gives [ when , and changes its sign with ] , and , ( 25 ) having the same meaning as in ( 5 ) .
Multiply both sides of equation ( 24 ) by , and consider the value of when ad is then equal to , for when and also .
when is neglected .
We want to find at the edge of the body , i.e. at the point where is supposed to be : igible compared to , i.e. the point This gives us which reduces to in virtue of ( 8 ) .
body is to the top of the channel , the faster the fluid flows above it , as was to be expected .
Let us now consider , where has the same meaning as before , This vanishes when .
along the fixed boundaries .
We shall consider the case of .
Equations ( 8 ) give us , on neglecting ; we neglect , being of order Then taIJ , ( 31 ) and as before decreases as increases .
We now see that , given , and , we have sufficient data to determine a , and , if we make use of our condition ( 22 ) .
Equation ( 29 ) determines , and after substituting in ( 26 ) for is found ; is then obtained from ( 31 ) and finally from ( 30 ) .
As already stated depends on the position of the body in the stream , and knowing and is immediately obtainable .
We have still to consider the thrust on the body .
This is done in the same .
way as before , viz. , by considering the integral taken round the contour .
is , in this case , equal to , which gives on being reduced , ( 32 ) when and ad hence .
( 33 ) When , and ' therefore *Of .
and Joukovsky .

