]\gt ; Utilisation of Energy stored in for the Production of Mechanical Work .
By A. MALLOCK , F.RS .
Received Apri127 , \mdash ; Read May 13 , 1909 .
Small pieces of mechanism which require little power are often driven by wound-up springs ( generally of steel ) , but steel and all other known materials , with the exception of indiarubber , have such a small capacity for work that they not of much use as sources of power if weight is a consideration .
The capacity for work , or " " dynamic worth of a substance is the elastic work which can be stored in it divided by its mass .
The dimensions of dynamic worth are therefore and the velocity of which it is the square represents the velocity which the work stored could impart to the mass in which it is contained .
Dynamic worth may also be defined in gravity measured by the height to which the stored work could raise the weight in which it is contained .
For steel this height is between 70 and 80 feet , and for all other known substances , except indiarubber , it is less .
For good specimens of indiarubber , however , the dynamic worth is between 1000 and 1200 feet , and this ular property to render it valuable for small light engines whose duty is to give out a power for a short time .
Thus .
of indiarubber would serve to produce something like a horse-power for one minute .
I do not know that any heat engine has been yet made which will give out a horse-power for one minute for this weight , though internal combustion engines can now be made iving 1 horse-power on a weight of much less than .
The object of this note is to show in what way the work stored in stretched indiarubber may be most fully utilised , and so utilised as to supply power at a constant rate .
The most convenient form in which the indiarubber can be used is that of a long strip or band wound on a reel or drum under tension , and in order to convert the potential energy into mechanical work it will be shown that the conversion cannot be effected continuously , but must proceed in cycles , and that the condition of efficiency is that each portion of the elastic band whose contraction is to be utilised must be unwound from the drum without change of tension , and that the part so unwound must then be isolated by clamping or otherwise , and allowed to contract without contact with other bodies except at the clamped ends .
VOL. LXXXII.\mdash ; A. 2 388 Mr. A. Mallock .
Utilisation of Energy stored in [ Apr. 27 , Consider the case of a long perfectly elastic band wound without tension on a reel A and let this reel be so geared to another reel as to make revolve at times the rate of A. If the end of the band on A is attached to , the band in passing from A to will be stretched to times its length .
It is shown below that the work expended in winding from A to is exactly twice the work required to stretch the band to times its length , one half the work being taken up in overcoming the elastic reaction and the other half converted into heat by the friction of the band on itself or on the reel while its length is being changed from to Conversely , if from the reel the stretched cord is rewound on to , no mechanical work can be gained , the whole of the potential energy due to the elasticity being taken up in overcoming the friction of the cord on itself or while contracting from to To avoid mechanical loss there must be no slip and therefore no change of tension while unwinding is in progress .
If a suitable length of band is unwound without change of tension and then clamped where it leaves the reel , while its outer end is attached to an appropriate part of the engine and allowed to contract , the whole elastic work can be utilised in accelerating the motion of that part , and the process of unwinding and subsequent contraction repeated indefinitely as long as any stretched band remains on the reel .
( A small model was shown on which this cycle is carried out automatically .
) With indiarubber there are thermal losses during contraction , independent of friction , which will prevent the efficiency of the engine being as high as if the cord was perfectly elastic ; but the proposition as regards the frictional loss being exactly equal to the elastic work done seemed of sufficient interest to make it worth recording .
This propositioJl has an immediate application to the efficiency of belts , and shows that the more stretchable a belt is ( i.e. the smaller is Young 's modulus for the ) the lower is the efficiency of transmission .
To prove the proposition above stated , let AB be part of the circumference of a reel of radius , A being the position where the tension of the band is , and the position where the band leaves the reel at tension and OA , OB directions fixed in space .
Then , as is known , the tension at any point between A and is , where is the arc BP and the 1909 .
] Springs for tloe Production of Mechanical Work .
coefficient of friction .
Let and be short of the circumference of the reel and of the band respectively , which are equal and in contact at A. If the reel be now turned until arrives at will ( in virtue of the extension of the band ) be nearer to than by the length being the elastic modulus of the band ; and the slip between the band and reel which occurs while the latter turns is .
The normal pressure of the band at is , and the resistance to sliding is .
The work therefore expended in overcoming the resistance to sliding per unit of the band at while the reel turns through the arc is and the total work spent in friction between the band and reel between A and for the arc of rotation is the of the last expression taken between the limits and , or .
Thus if a of band is unwound , the frictional work is equal to , and independent of The elastic work expended in stretching a portion of natural length from a and tension , to a length and tension , is , or , since and , it is .
Thus if the in the previous formula is reckoned as the unstrained length of the unwound band , the elastic and frictional work are equal in amount .
The frictional work must always represent a loss of available mechanical work ; and hence to wind from a low tension to a higher demands the expenditure of twice the work required to stretch the band from one tension to .
the other , and if the band is unwound from a high tension to a low no mechanical power can be developed in the process as the work is taken up by friction .

