Observations on the Poison of the Common Toad .
By John Davy , M.D. F.R.S. Read December 22 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part II .
p. 127 .
] After adverting to the correctness of the popular opinion respecting the poisonous nature of the toad , which the professed naturalist has generally rejected , the author proceeds to describe the seat of the poison , which is chiefly in follicles in the cutis vera , and which , on pressure , exude from it in the form of a thick yellowish fluid , which , on evaporation , yields a transparent residue , very acrid , and acting on the tongue like extract of aconite .
It is neither acid nor alkaline ' ; and since a chicken inoculated with it received no injury , it does not appear to be 'noxious when absorbed and carried into the circulation .
Indeed , although it chiefly abounds in the integuments of the toad , the author also detected it in the bile , the urine , and in small quantity in the blood .
Dr. Davy thinks that the principal use of this poison is to defend the reptile against the attacks of carnivorous animals ; he also renmarks , that as it contains an inflammable substance , it may be considered as excrernentitious ; it may serve to carry off a portion of carbon from the blood , and thus be auxiliary to the function of the lungs .
In support of this idea , the author observes that he finds each of the pulmolnary arteries of the toad divided into two branches , one of which goes to the lung , and the other to the cutis , ramifying most abundantly where the la.rgest venous follicles are situated , and 263 ' where there is a large venous plexus , corresponding to the site of the tadpole 's gills , and seeming to indicate that the subcutaneous distribution of the second branch of the pulmonary artery may further aid the office of the lungs by bringing the blood to the surface to be acted on by the air .
The author concludes this paper by stating , that he has endeavoured to trace a direct communication by spiracula through the integuments , but has only obtained negative results , never having succeeded in forcing the smallest bubble of air through the skin .

