38^ Mr. J. S. Russell .
The Wave of Translation .
[ June 18 ments only , made by use of a Leyden jar , that I believe to be decisive , and to prove irrefutably that Swan 's spectrum cannot be ascribed solely to hydrocarbon .
As to the phenomenon shown by sparks , it is not quite so Convincing ; for , accepting Wiillner's* ideas , one could object that the spark affecting only a set of molecules of infinitely small transverse section could have carried forth from the electrodes an exceedingly small quantity of hydrogen , which would quite escape observation when expanded throughout the whole vacuum tube , but would be sufficient to induce the hydrocarbon spectrum in the lme of the spark .
This explanation , however , I do not think to be at all probable .
The tube used in these experiments was of common size ; the ends of the electrodes , which were of aluminium , had a distance of about 15 centims. from one another .
Some results , differing from those just mentioned , were obtained in a wide spectrum tube without capillary tube , .the ends of its electrodes being distant about 3 centims. from one another .
The spark then no longer exhibited Swan 's spectrum , even when the carbonic acid was not dried with the utmost care , as in the above-mentioned researches ; but there were seen the enlarged maxima of Watts ' second spectrum , which I have shown by some researches , of which a short account has been published in the Berlin .
Monatsb .
, " 1880 , p. 791 , to be generally due to the continuous form of discharge , according to the nomenclature of Messrs. Thalen and Angstrom .
If the density of the gas was still increased , there flashed a very brilliant line spectrum , never before observed by me , in a tube of common size .
These facts , at all events , show that there exists some relation between the different orders and forms of spectra and the conditions of discharges ( probably , according to my opinion , the quantities of electricity sent through the unit of space in the unit of time , till now unknown to us ) that will doubtless become clear as soon as the causes governing spark discharges shall be better recognised\#151 ; a subject on which Sir W. Thomsonf says that it is difficult even to conjecture an explanation .
Y. " The Wave of Translation and the Work it does as the Carrier Wave of Sound .
" By John Scott Russell , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1881 .
Synopsis .
Short history of the wave of translation discovered by me in 1832-3 .
Investigation of its shape , nature , speed , and difference from all other waves in its character as a solitary carrier wave .
* Wullner , " Lehrbuch der Experimental Physik , " vol. 2 , p. 250 ; \amp ; c. t Papers on " Electrostatics , " \amp ; e. , p. 247 .
1881 .
] On Electrical Stimulation of the Frog 's Heart .
The application of this solitary wave in air to the carrying of sound .
Errors of the phrases in general use for the explanation of the conveyance of sound .
_ .
My theory of the mode in which sound is propagated as distinguished from the mode of its creation .
Consideration of the aerial wave of sound , its analogy to the solitary wave in water .
The depth of the air ocean and its correspondence to that of the water ocean .
The speed of the solitary or carrier wave in each element .
The speed is due to the depth .
What happens in the interior of the solitary wave in water ?
The same motions take place in the same nature of aerial wave .
Elucidation by the comparison of three equivalent oceans .
Similarity and dissimilarity between the oscillating waves and the carrier or sohtary wave .
Musical sounds in their melodic and harmonic relations to this wave .
Numerical nomenclature of sounds .
Kow the message of the sound wave is delivered to the brain .
VI .
" On the Effect of Electrical Stimulation of the Frog 's Heart , and its Modification by Cold , Heat , and the Action of Drugs .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.B.S. , and Theodore Cash , M.D. Received May 16 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) From the results of the recorded experiments conducted on the frog 's heart in its normal position and still exercising its circulatory function , we have found\#151 ; I. That electrical stimulation by a single induced shock has either an obvious effect on the contraction and rhythm of the organ , oi no such effect is apparent .
II .
That the effect is modified by\#151 ; ( a. ) The time of the cardiac cycle in which stimulation falls .
Thus Marey has already shown that a so-called refractory period is demonstrable under certain conditions.^ Well-marked variations in latency when the stimulation is potent to induce a systolic contraction are to be recognised .
( b. ) The strength of the stimulation applied .
Refractory periods possible under minimal stimulation can no longer be demonstrated * The conditions of this refractory period , or " period of diminished excitability , " have been very fully investigated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson and Mr. Page .
Proc. Koy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 373 .

