A paper was read , entitled , " Continuation of the paper on the relations between the Nerves of Motion and of Sensation , and the Brain ; and more particularly on the structure of the Medulla Oblon ?
gata and of the Spinal Marrow .
' ' By Sir Charles Bell , F.R.S. The author enters into a minute anatomical investigation of the structure of the spinal cord , and of its relations with the encephalon , and with the origins of the nerves .
He finds that the spinal cord is constituted , in its whole length , by six pairs of columns , namely , two posterior , two lateral , and two anterior ; each column being composed of concentric layers , and invested with an external coating of cineritious substance , and all the columns being divided from each other by deep sulci , which penetrate nearly to the centre of the cord .
On tracing the posterior columns in their ascent towards the encephalon , they are seen to diverge laterally at the calamus scriptorius , or bottom of the fourth ventricle , and to proceed into the substance of the cerebellum .
Each of these posterior columns is here found to consist of two portions , the outermost being the largest ; and they now consti ?
tute the processus cerebelli ad medullam oblongatam .
This subdivision of the posterior columns may be traced throughout the whole length of the spinal cord .
The lateral columns give origin to the pos ?
terior roots of the spinal nerves , and are therefore the parts subser ?
vient to sensation .
In ascending towards the brain , each of these co2 b lumns has a double termination 5 first , in the root of the fifth pair of cephalic nerves ; and secondly , in the place where both columns unite into one round cord , and mutually decussate .
Between the lateral and the anterior columns there is interposed a layer of cineritious matter , constituting a continuous stratum from the cauda equina to the roots of the auditory nerves .
There is also a septum , dividing the right and left tracts subservient to sensation in the region of the fourth ventricle , and apparently terminating at the point of decussation of these tracts ; but , in reality , separating to al ?
low of this decussation , and joining the central portion of the cord , which connects the posterior with the anterior columns , and extends from the nons Varolii to the cauda enuina .

