]\gt ; Mr. E. H. Barton .
'lectrical Jnterference Phenomenag Brought forward . . . . . . . . . .
395 .
W. M. Hioks , to aid him in his Experiments on the Higher Becalesc Point of Iron . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
: Refnnded Government Grant Committee ( additions to Royal Society 's telescope ) " " Electrical Interference Phenomena somewhat analogous to Rings , but exhibited by Waves along Wires By EDWIN H. BARTON , B.Sc. , " " Exhibition\ldquo ; Science Scholal. .
Communicated by Professor ARTHUR W. RUCKER , , F.R.S. Received February 20 , \mdash ; Read April \mdash ; Abbreviated* July , 1894 .
INTRODUCTION .
The preliminary paper on this subject gave the results of a experiment , and accounted for them by a mathematical theol.y of the reflexion and interference pbcno nena involved .
Since the publication of that paper the question of disturbances investigated , the experimental conditions improved , and various results in confirmation of the original concl [ lsions .
These matters form the subject of the present commumcation .
apparatus employed observing the intel.ference phenomena is diagrammatically represented in fig. 1 and explained in the notes accompan ing it .
In Experiment the electromeber was placed at HH ' instead of , its usual position .
In Experiments VIII and IX two electrometer needles were used , their respective attachments being at and The lengths of SAM and , and the special construction of the part will be specified as required in the course of the paper en reference is made to the { igure .
fig. 1 , we have the following phenomena:\mdash ; uscript , prese)Proc Rhown ttrain oreflexion apart ; erferences between taves preflexion aeginning opart.econdary f BB ' and respectively .
sompwhat to Newton 's flings . .
l.\mdash ; Diagram of Apparatus .
EXPLANATION OF I. Induction coil vorked by two secondary cells .
This coil could givo regular sparks up to 2 cm .
long ; their was about per second .
G. gap , usually 2 mm. POP ' cm .
sured a the semicircle .
The wires were 2 mm. diameter . .
Condenser plates of zinc 40 cm .
diameter to form the ends of the Hertzian imary oscillatol . .
8imila plates at a distance of 30 cm .
and , and forming the of the long secondary which consists of copper wires 1 mm. diameter .
Tbose parts shown dotted in the figure were set up in the corridors adjoining the laboratory .
With the above wav mm. long were produced , their lency being millions per second .
AA ' BB ' cm .
This distance was moslashin tained oughout the secondary by pieces of dry wood at of about 2 or BCB'C ' .
The lmal ( or afiered ) part of the secondary used to produce reflexion interference phellomena .
MM ' .
The middle of the abnormal part .
eleotrometer .
needle uncharged : it therefore turne in the same direction whenever there is any potential difference between 1 and , whatever the sign of that difference .
Tloe needle was subpended by a quartz-fibre , and gavo ( though uncharged ) a deflexion of about 85 scale divisions when the electrometer was connected to a battery of 10 Daniell 's cells .
In using the electrometer for electric waves first , not steady deflexions , were always read .
DD ' .
Wire bridge across the main lvires .
FH HB ED a quarter of a wave-lexJgth .
Hence , as the of the abnormal part is gradually the total energy of the reflected waves is ereby periodically increased and reased .
It was thus seen that the length of the abnormal paert of the @econdary corresponds to the thickness of air film in the optical phenomena known as on 's Rings , that the reflexions of the electrical waves at the beginning and end of the part correspond respectively to the reflexions of mt the first and second faces of the air film .
For the experiments now to be described the results of the mathematical theory previously developed* are as follows:\mdash ; , equations ( 13 ) , p. 90 , and tions ( , p. 92 .
70 Mr. E. H. Barton .
lectrical Phenomena riginal wtrain beginning obnormal p reflected one be ab , then . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) , where is the ratio of the elecbrostatic capacity of unit length of the abllormal part of the secondary to that of its normal parts .
( 2 .
) For the interference of the wave-trains proceeding from the beginning and end of the abnormal part of the secondary .
Let the incident wave-train be . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) , where denotes electrostatic potential , , the velocity of propagation of the waves , and and are constants depending respectively upon amplitude , the primary damping and the freency .
Let the energy of the wav'-train , when incident upon the beginning of the abnormal part ( fig. 1 ) be , let be the total energy of all waves transmitted the abnormal part , and let be that of all the waves returned along BA after one or more reflexions at C. ; ; ( 3 ) .
where and denotes the time occupied by the waves in twice traversing the length , BC , of the abnormal part of the secondary .
oxIMATE THEORY OF DISTURBANCES .
Thus far , then , we have dealt only with a singfe incidence of the wave-train upon the abnormal part of the secondary , and have found expressions for the two trains thereby produced .
But in order to represent more completely what occurs with the apparatus arranged as in fig. 1 , it is furthe ] trace the history of the two wave .
to which the original one thus gives rise .
If the reflected wave-train lvere quickly extinguished and never again reached the plates , fig 1 , and if the transmitted wave-train after passing the electrometer , and thus giving the deflexion by which it is measured , were quickly extinguished without again reachsomewhat analogous to Newto 's Rings .
ing the abnormal part CB , then , and then only , would ) theory hitherto developed suffice .
Clearly , however , these conditions are not fulfilled .
On the contrary , the waves go to and fro along the secondary , Total reflexion with revel'sal of electrification the short circuited end ( fig. 1 ) , Total reflexion without reversal of eleclrification at , and Partial reflexion and partial transmission at each incidence on the abnormal part We have , tbus , a case of binary fission at each incidence of a train on the abnormal part , each such fractional train returning to the abnormal part to be further , in like , subdivided .
Theoretically , this process continoes infinitum .
From these considerations it may easily be ferred that , to avoid hopeless confusion , the distance from the abnorm 1 part to either end of the secondary must exceed half the length of the train of electrical vaves , or in symboIs : \mdash ; SB and CE .
( A ) , where X is the effective length of the wave-train , and the other lettcrs refer to fig. 1 .
Tt was also found necessary to avoid placing the abnormal part midway between the two ends , and , of the secondary .
For , in that case , the two sets of waves respectively reflected at and transmitted rough the abnormal part would , after travelling to opposite ends of the econdary , again at the middle and interfere with other .
disturbance was sufficiently obviated by fulfilling condition\mdash ; .
( ) .
But when conditions ( A ) and ( B ) are both fulfilled , there is still a residual disturbance .
For , althongh the electrometer is placed to receive the systems transmitted through the abnormal part , it , in consequence of their repeating coursings to and fro , actually receives also foebler systems of reflected waves .
Thus , let the fraction of incident wave-energy transmitted by the abnormal part be , and leb the ratio of the electrometer readings with and without the abnortnal part be , then the author has that is approximately given by the equation .
( 4 ) .
where and express the attenuation of energy suffered by the 72 Ifi .
E. H. Barton .
Electrical Interference enomena lvaves in passing along lengths of the secondary equal respectively to twice SM and twice MD ( fig. 1 ) .
is always a little greater than except in the limiting cases and .
Thus , the experimentally-determined ratio needs a negative colrection .
This is easily applied by graphical methods .
Now , since is a function both of and of the attenuation secondary damping ) it becomes necessary , in order to utilise Equation ( 4 ) , to estimate the value of this damping .
The theory of one method devised for this purpose is as follows:\mdash ; Suppose the arrangement of apparatus shown in fig. 1 to be modified thus .
Let the l-mm .
diameter copper wires be continued beyond for some distance , and after that let the wires for a furthel length be of iron of mm. diameter .
Also leb the bridge shown at be movable and capable of being placed at pleasure beyond the electrometer .
And consider , first , the changes in the electrometer throws as the bridge is moved from the eIectrometer , but still always upon copper wires .
Let the elecbrometer throws be plotted as ordinates , and the distances of the bridge from the eIectrometer as abscissae Then , for positions of the bridge immediately beyond the electro .
meter the curve so obtained is c.onspicuously wary , and coIItinues sensibly so for a distance equal to half the appreciable length of wave-train .
This is the part corresponding to the curve shown by V. Bjerknes ( ' Wied .
Ann vol. 44 , p. 522 , 1891 ) , and is due to th !
interferences between the wave-trains advancing towards and re .
flected from the brid .
Beyond this part , whatever the rate of decay of the waves , we have a continuous droop in the curve .
The exact form of the curve depends , in part , upon this decay , and the ordinate of the asymptote to the curve may be shown to be a simple of ( where is tlJe law of decay of the of waves ) .
Let the distance SE ( fig. 1 ) be , and be the ordinate of cur at the point whose abscissa is , the ordinate the origin being unity .
Then we have for { he equation of the curve\mdash ; .
( 5 ) .
and for that of its asymptote\mdash ; ( 6 ) .
The ratio is difficult to determine if the copper wires on are used , but with the thin iron wires the eIectrometer throws rapidly fall oif to their minimum value , and thus is readily obtained as deSll.ed .
somewhut anulogoIls to 's Rings .
The chief experiments made will now be dealt with in the following order : \mdash ; Undesired interferences of rate wave-trains .
Experiments I\mdash ; III .
( 2 .
) Estimate of rate of decay of waves .
( 3 .
) Analogy to Newton 's rings by transmission under conditions .
Experiments and ( 4 ) Analogy to Newton 's rings by reflexion .
Experiment ( 5 ) Abnormal parts which produce no reflexion .
Experiments VIII and IX .
Bxperiment I.\mdash ; Undesired Inferferences of Disfinct simultaneously reflected at and transmittel through the Abnormal the Secondary .
To investigate this question the arrangement of apparatas shown in fig. 1 was adopted .
The abnormal consisted of a single pair tinfoil shects each 50 cm . .
and 32 cm .
deep , the two being immediately opposite each other , one on wire of the secondary .
The total length , SAD , of the secondary was 162 , the distance SAM was vat.ied from 75 .
to .
by steps of .
each .
Electrometer readings with and without the sheets were taken alternately in order to eliminate the possible errors due to irregular working of the sparks .
The observations taken are shown Table I. The result is graphically exhibited in the curve , fig. 2 .
FIO .
2.\mdash ; Curve sholving Undesired Interferences .
perimenb II.\mdash ; Interferences as in Experiment , but with Thin Wires at the , end of the Secondary .
Various experiments were made with the secondary lengthened about 70 mm. by the addition of thin iron wires , in the hope that they would absorb all the incident waves and thus do away with their repeated coursings and consequent .
Tbo result was flll 74 Mr. H. Barton .
trical Interference Phenom Table I. Ratios of Distances .
quotients ofthrows , cols .
3anil 2 .
87 .
0.42 89 .
0.51 undulating curve whose lay between the limits and Thus the extreme values of the ordinates differed from their mean value by about per cent. of the latter .
The trometer throws , however , were now reduced to about one-third of their former value .
This was owing to the continuation of the wires so far beyond the electrometsr lnstead of their termination by a bridge distant only a quarter wave-length from it .
It seemed , therefore , that the iron did more harm than good , and they were accordingly abandoned in favour of the arrangement described in the next experiment .
analogous to Rings .
7.5 Experiment for Inte ferences as in Experiment , but with the Abnormal Part away from the middle of the Secoudary .
As the outcome of Experiment II the theory in condition ( B ) , p. 71 , was developed , and the present experiment tried in accordance therewith .
The effective length of wave-train was experimentally found to be about 70 .
Hence , to fulfil ( B ) it was necessary to make The apparatus shown in fig. 1 was then arranged thus : SAD .
SAM varied from .
to , and electrometer throws were taken alternately with and without a pair of tinfoil sheets as in Experiments I and II .
This uent was performed twice and tlJe mean result , when plotted as in Fxperiment I , gave a curve undulating between the limiting ordinates and .
Thus the extreme vaJues of the differed from their mean value by about 9 per cent. of the latter .
It is thus seen ihat , although the straight line hoped for was not obtained , yet this curve is less wavy than either of the two previous ones .
And since , also , this arrangement yields the maximum effect at the electrometer , it was adopted in the experiment for the analogy to Newton 's rings by transmission hereafter described .
IV.\mdash ; Eslimate of the Rate of of the Waves in their along the Secondary .
The tirrangement of the apparatus adopted for this determination has already been described under the headings of Theory ( p. 72 ) .
In this experiment the droop of the curve sought was expected to be very slight .
Consequently , for the sake of accuracy , each point of the curve was determined by twenty-one electrometer readings .
Six sets of observations were made with SAE , fig. .
They yielded a curve whose asymptote was\mdash ; ; whence we obtain .
( 7 ) .
A second series of observations with SAE .
afforded the and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 8 ) .
f , 'xperiment V\mdash ; Analogy to Newton 's Rings by Transmission under best Conditions .
This experiment was made with exceptional care , as it is the chief one of the series .
Most of the others either served to indicate the follows .
The abnormal part consisted of tinfoil sheets each 32 cm .
deep and 50 cm .
long .
These were hung opposite each other upon the two vires of the secondary .
Lest a shift of the middle point of the sheets along the wires migbt have a slight disturbing fact on the meter throws , the abnormal part was always lengthened or shortened by the same amount at each end , thus leaving the middle point undisturbed .
The ]ength SAM was throughout the experiment , MD being 63 so as to comply with condition ( B ) .
The tinfoil sheets were kept properly spaced by very accurately cut wood separators , one for each half metre 's length of the sheets .
The same separators , but at longer intervals , were used throughout the line .
The vertical edges of consecutive sheets were made to overlap about 2 cm .
and allowed to hang in simplo contact .
Lest this contact should be insufficient and so volve an error , the sheets were built up in this way to a length of .
( a quarter of a wave-length ) , and the ratio determined of the wave-energy transmitted by it to that incident upon it .
Then an abnormal part , con- sising of zinc plates soldered together was substituted , and the raction of wave-energy transmitted determined .
In each case , ro insure accuracy , twenty-one ometer readings were taken alternately with and without the abnormal parb .
two ratios thus determined wero:\mdash ; ( 1 ) For the tinfoil ( 2 ) For the zinc plates soldered . . . .
Hence this apparently imperfect contact seemed sufficicnt for the case , and was adopted in the main experiments now under consideration .
A spark gap of 2 mm. was used throughout both in the experiments just described and in what now follows .
The method of taking the observations so as to eliminate the possible errors due to the irregularities in the sparking of the primary was as follows .
Several eIectrometer throws vere taken , at * When making the corresponding experiment , described in the formor } ) p. 96 , was taken equal to .
I had not , up to then , seen that it was desirable to avoid ngement .
The probable errors were calculated by the formulae given in 's ' Leitfaden der Praktischen Physik , ' Leipzig , 1892 , pp. 1\mdash ; 3 , and proved in Dr. B. Weinstein 's ' Handbuch der ) , ' vol. somewhat analogous to Newton 's Rings .
without any tinfoil sheets on the wires , then a couple of readings with , say , two sheets on each wire ; then two readings with four on each ire , and so forth .
After the abnormal had thus been built up to a considerable lenlgth , it was then in like manner shortened , two readings being taken for each length , concluding with several readings without any sheets at all on the wires .
The whole ocess was carl'ied out four times , the longtl]s used in the various oases being varied so as to obtain electrometer readings each half metre 's of the abnormal .
Thus , in the first and third sets of observatio1ls , the lengths of the abnormal part pproximately 0 ; whereas , the second and fourth sets , the lengths were about A single set of readings up to neal l lenothb of abnormal part is given in Table II .
the ocess of lcn,.thening the abnormal part the ratios are obtained by taking for the divisor initial mean throw without abnormal part , whereas , .
the the like , is used as the divisor .
Hence the double for the ratio corresponding to the length .
The last column of the table contains the mean of the ratios during Jthening and shortening .
The kind of agreement obtained by the four } of ) servations is shown by the two curves in fig. 3 .
curves the abscissae FIG. Cves from xperiment V. epresent the lenghs of the abnormal part .
In the upper curve ordinateH ) resent the ; of the abnormal part .
In the upper urtrc the ordinates represent the mean ratios of the throws obtained the first and third of observations with ] and without the abnormal part .
The ordinates of the lower curve give the values of the ratios , as obtained the second and sets of readin 78 Mr. E. H. Barton .
Electrical Table II .
somewhat analogous The process was afterwards continued from this point onwards to a ength of .
The final mean result of the entire experiment is shown in the curve , fig. 4 .
FIG. 4.\mdash ; Analogy to Newton 's Rings by Transmission .
SO Mr. E. H. Barton .
Interference rimeni VI.\mdash ; Analogy to Newton 's Rin .
, as in iExperiment with different Abnormal Part .
In is experiment the lengths of SAD and the position of were as in Experiment .
The abnormal part , however , cotl .
sisted simply of the ordinary wires , but put closer together ther ' than elsewhere , amely , cm .
apart instead of 8 cm .
The electrometer ] were taken thus : , with no ab .
normal part ; next , with one of .
long ; again with no abnorma , then wi one .
long , and so forth .
The readings with without the part were always alternated , and the ratiof of the throws taken as in Experiments I\mdash ; III .
The result of this set of observations is in , fig. 5 .
abscissae represent ' of the orma FIG. 5.\mdash ; Second Case of Analogy to Newton 's Rings by Transmission .
part , and the ordinates the ratios of the electrometer with those without it .
nent \mdash ; Analogy to Newton 's by In this experiment the arrangement of apparatus shown in fig. 1 modified by removing the electrometer from and inserbing it , where HB is a quarter of a wave 's length .
hout the xpcrlment the lengths wero as follows:\mdash ; SAD mm. , SAB mm. The abnormal .
was of tinfoil sheets , 32 cm .
deep and 50 cm .
, precisely as Experiment , while the end B13 ' remained fixed , the BC was valied from nothing to 6 by steps of half a metre .
The elecbrometer throws were taken , first with a at hen without the bridgc but with an abuormal parb somewhat analogous to Newton 's Rings .
single pair of tinfoil sheets , next with the bridge at BB ' , then again without the bridge but with an part of two pairs of sheets , and so forth , the readings with and without bridge being always alternated .
The result is plotted in the shown in fig. 6 , the lengths of 0f the Secondary .
the abnormal part being taken as abscissae , and the ratios of electrometer throws as ordinates .
On this Clll 've two ftpparently anomalous humps may be noticed in the of .
and .
lengths of the abnormal part .
These , er , are not due to errol'S of observation ; for , on carefully repeating the experiment in these regions the first results were confirmed , shown by the double dots made at those places .
A few were also taken with the above general arrangement , but an rmal part , consisting of the ires nearer together , just in xperiment V. It was thus found that the electrometer throws were about three times as great with an abnormal part a -wave long as with one a half-wave long .
Experiment \mdash ; An Abnormal Part Produces no Beflexion .
Having far experimenbed with the desired phenomena , and discussed the various disturbanoes involved , it now eems of interest to notico particular forms of the abnormal palt which reflect no portion of wave-energy incident ) henl .
This and the following experiment were tried as tests of the of theory for a bingle reflexion .
However , to ostablish the entire absence of reflexion would be very difficult single-needle electrometer iously used , because the test irregularity of the primary might be mistaken for the efect of reflexion .
And 110 repetition of observations , howevel extended , would justify the collolusion that the enel.gies transmitted VOL. LVII .
82 .
E. H. Bartoll .
ntrical Interference Phenomena with and without the abnormal part were absolntely equal .
It : became expedient , therefore , to use an electrometer which gave de .
flexions only when reflected waves were present .
Such an instrument was , fortunately , ready to hand in the differential electrometer used and deSCl.ibed by Dr. von Geither , kindly left by him for my use .
In this form of electrometer two needles , rigidly connected with each other and upon the same quartz fibre , are employed .
One of these experiences a right-handed torque , owing to attachments at one pair of points on the secondary , whenever these points have a diflerencs of eithel si , while the seco1ld under like conditions , experiences a left-handed torque , owing attachments at a second .
of points on the secondary , and distant a qnarter of a wave 's length from the first pair .
Thus , when the instrument is properly adjusted , the Jnere passing of a -train leaves the needles nndisturbed .
If , however , eflexion is by any means produced near the electrometer , so that it is in a region of standing waves , it may give a throw .
The arrangement of apparatus adopted may be seen from inspection of fig. 1 , wlIich was modified by the removal of the single-needle electrometer from , and the tion of the differential electrometer at .
The first needle was influenced by attachments to and , and the second by tachments to and .
The main between the first and second pairs of points were led in a loop , so they first passed the electrometer at , and a second time at .
Thus , all the attachments between the main wires and the electrometer were quite short .
The wires in the normal part of the secondary were cm .
diameter .
The part consisted also of copper wires , and were in this experiment cm .
diameter , and .
long .
These were tried at two distances apart .
namely , 1 cm .
and cm .
The ectrometer throws in these cases were and scale divisions respectively .
Whence , by interpolation , we have cm .
nearly , as distance apart at which these wires would yield no reflexion .
The electrometel throw with a bridge at BB ' was twenty four scale divisions .
of no Reflexion from an Part .
In this experiment everything the same as in the preceding , except that the abnox.mal part consisted of wires thicker and wider apart than the rest of the line , instead of being thinner and * Wiedemann 's 'Annalen , ' vol. 49 , pp. 188\mdash ; 189 , somewhat analogous to 's Rings .
nearer together .
The wires in question were cm .
diameter , and , when placed at 66 cm .
apart , there was practically no reflexion .
COUIPARISON OF THEORy AND It now becomes of interest to compare the resuIts of Expeliments V to IX with the theories advanced concerning them .
In Bxperiment we have the capacity per unit of the part in electrostatic units approximately given by , where is the distance between the centres of the wires and their radius .
For the abnolmal part , without any correction for the ed , we have capacity per unit length equals where is the width of the tinfoil sheets .
Now was 8 cm .
, was cm .
nearly , and cm .
Thus we obtain for , the ratio of the capacities , nearly .
If , however , in estimating the capacity of the abnormal part , a correction for the edges is made , we obtain values of ranging up to 8 or 9 , according to the length of the abnormal part under consideration , and the formula used for the correction .
Taking as a typical case the length of abnormal part to be , on which special experiments were made .
and correcting the edges by the approximate formula given by Professor Kohlrausch* we obtain , nearly .
Whence , from equation ( 1 ) , It will be seen from the equations ( 3 ) that it is further necessary to know the constants and .
These were determined by experiments similar to those prcviously devised and carried out by .
Bjerknes .
In my case , however , the electrometer readings were alternated with the bridge at the variable distance .
, and at the quarter wavelength distance beyond the electrometer .
A spark gap of 2 mm. was used throughout .
Thus obtained for the electrical waves advancing along the wires , the wave-length .
; and for the constant involving the primary damping , we have , or say nearly .
Then , assuming that the velocity of propagation of the waves along wires is that of light in air , we obtain , from en der praktischen Physik , ' Leipzig , 1892 , p. 357 .
Wiedemaml 's ' Annalen , ' vol. 44 , pp. 619\mdash ; 522 , 1891 .
This is known to be the case from rious experiments , and also from theo etical considerations .
See , for example:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Professor Hertz , " " Ausbreitung dcr elektl.ischen , Leipzig , 1892 , or English translation by Professor D. E. Jones , B.Sc. 2 .
) MM .
Sarasin and De la Rive , 'Archives des Sciences Physiques ct Naturelles , ' vol. 29 , No , 5 .
Geneve .
1893 .
$ .
Profcssor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. , ' Recent on Magnotiom pp. 4 .
) Profcssor Oliver Lodge , F.R.S. , ' Phil. Mag August 1888 , vol. 26 , p. 228 ; Brit. Assoc 1888 , p. 567 ; and ' Proc. Roy .
vol. 50 , pp. .
H. .
Electrical Interference Phenomena , the -alue of the frequency , namely , ) secozld , these data cn rve , fig. 4 , is plotted , the lengths of the part be bscissae and the corresponding fractions of incident wave energy transmilted being ol.dinates .
If is thus noticeable that the etical c , though of similar , lies below the experimetltsl one .
If , however , apply to the latter , a correction based upon Equation ( 4 ) and the results of Experiment , we obtain curves which lie wholly below the theoretical one .
One such is shown in curve , fig. 4 , in which is equal to us , while the comparison of theory experiment has not resulted in the establishment of an reement between then ] , it is yet so far ctory to notice*that the curves are precisely similar in form , and that the theoretical one lies entirely between the two experimental ones , with and without correction .
It is also noteworthy that Mr. Yule , in his recent work on " " The Passage of Electrical ave-trains through Layel .
S of Electrolyte found a disCl.epancy of the same sign and of like amount between the experi- mental curve and the theoretical one .
The dotted lines above and tho main in fig. 4 indicate thelimits between which the latter lies .
These limiting lines old be horizontal but ' the pl.imarydalnping of the waves emitted by the oscillator .
We thus see that the curve in the neighbourhood of affords best means of determining when ib is nearly unity .
For troughs of the curve broad , and the curve is at ] part for some distance nearly to the axis of the abscissae .
Thus a great deviation from the true length would make but a small oue in the ordinate .
Secondly , for large values of , this ordinate is but very sligLtly aflected by the primary damping .
Hence a great error in the meastlreme1lt of makes a slight one determination of from this part of the curve .
Thus , taking , and accepting the experimental eurve , we obtain alJd , or taking the experimental curve , with correction , as own by the lower ] in fig. 4 , get and .
And it was between these limits 6 and 9 that calculated to lie .
In Experiment \mdash ; Since the same wires used for the normal part but ether , namely , at a stance d cm .
instead of cm .
, we have for the l.atio of capacities Professor Hertz considel'od the between theory as close as was to be expected .
Phil. pp. 548\mdash ; 544 , somewhat analogous to 81- ) Thus , by Equation we obtain .
From this value of and tbose last used for and we derive the curve shown by , fig. 5 .
This , as in the case of Experiment V , lies wholly below the experimental curve .
But here , again , the correction to the experimenta ] lrve applied in accordance with lation ( , the her value of from xperiment IV yields curve , fig. 5 , lying still lower than the theoretical one .
In VII.\mdash ; lt may be seen from the Equations ( 3 ) from general considerations that the total intensity of the reflected waves must be complementary to that of the smitted ones , that is the theoretica-l curve showing as ordinates instead of 7 would be obtained by inverting the tbeoretical one for Hence , we see that the general characteristics of the curve for may thus olltli]led : \mdash ; ( 1 ) A damped wavy-formed with\mdash ; ( 2 ) troughs at , \amp ; c. , and ( 3 ) crests at , \amp ; c. , where the of the abnormal part .
These general tics are possessed by the experimental curve obtained .
It must , of course , be borue in mind that the dinates of the cur thus experimentally detel'mined do not represent , but represen approximately ratios proportional to , since we have both ) reflected and the waves passing the electrometer .
On this the wavy form of this curve is less strongly marked than in the case of .
Probably also other , and undesired , interferences al.ose etween the on-comiug and refiected waves in the neighbourhood of electrometer , causing the two anomalous humps at and In the cases to which Equation ( 1 ) appIies we se hat there is no reflexion when , that is , when no change the capacity of the secondary occurs .
Now the aporoximate expression for the pacity of two equal pal.allel cylinders depends not upon absolute but upon their r.elafive dimensions only .
Hence , if ]ation ( is correct , it must be ible to range a of the wires in a form which appears very abnormal , but yet so as to no reflexion .
We have simply to introduce , at inner wires placed proportionately nearer together or thicker ones like manner } apart .
Thus , since in either case , lbe capacity is unaltered by the change in question , we have , and frction of wave-energy reflected disappeal'S .
the xperiment under tion the readings taken pointed to cm .
, from to centre of wires , as being that which , with the wires in use , would give no reflexion .
Theory gives as the correct distance cm .
Thus the discrepallcy is not greab ; 86 .
H. Barton .
Electrical Interference in fact , it may perhaps be within the limits of the errors of observation .
riment I.\mdash ; Here theol.y points to a distance apart of 38 cm .
as that which produce no refiexion .
The experiment , however , gave 66 cm .
This discl'epancy at sight appears serious .
When , , it is noticed that in the case of cylinders widely separated a very great further increase in their distance is reqnired to produce a small decrease in their capacity , the discrepancy does not freem so great .
Indeed , when the distance between the wires in this case is aItered from 38 cm .
to 66 cm .
, the capacity is only changed by about 10 per cent. It is conceivable that a discrepancy of that order be dne to the sloping portions of wire which served to connect the nol.mal vires , spaced at 8 cm .
, with the abnormal ones paced at 66 JARI O CHIEF ULTS .
The conclusions to be drawn from the foregoing theory and expel'iments taken conjllllction may be stated as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) In erimenting with electlical waves of high frequency passing along a .
of pal.allel wires with short-circuited end , and containing a portion which produces partial reflexion , it necessary to make right choice of the gths f ) efore and aftel such source of reflexion in order to avoid disturbing interferences .
( 2 .
) A sudden change in the capacity of the secondary produces a partial reflection that place of change .
The ratio of the amplitudes of the reflected and incident wave-trains may be explessed as a simple function of the change in capacity .
See Equations ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) in the previous paper .
( 3 .
) If a sudden change in the capacity of the seconda1y is succeeded by a suddell reversion to the normal state of the wires , then reflexions occur at each of these places of abrupt change .
And , if the distance between these two points is comparable with a wave-length , then the waves proceeding from them will interfere , consequently when the distance in question is in- creased a sel.ies of maxima and minima successively obtain , essentially analogous to those which simultaneously occm in the optical phenomena known as Newton 's Rings .
( 4 .
) If the secondary has a part which , though abnormal in appearance , oduces no change in its capacity , then no reflexion is produced it .
For each of the above statements theoretical grounds and experimental confirmation have been adduced .
And , although the two ars not in exact quantitative reemen , yet I think it will be admitted On the Leicester rthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
that they are approximately so , and that their accordance in all general respects is such that they support each other and warrant the conclusions drawn from them .
I have again to acknowledge my deep indebtedness to the late lamcnted Professor Hertz for the very able advice he at all times so gave me while I was engaged on the above work under bim at the University of Bonn during the session 1892\mdash ; 93 .
: the Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 By ] DAVISON , M.A. , F.G.S. , Mathematical Master at King Edlvard 's High School , Birmingham .
Commul by Professor J. H. , F.B.S. Received February 28 , \mdash ; Read May 10 , 1894 .
On Augusl 4 , 1893 , at 6 . .
( G.M.T. ) , an earthquake shock was felt throughout the whole of Leicestershire and Rutland , and in parts also of adjoining counties of Lincoln , Nottingham , , Stafford , Warwick and Northampton .
The distnrbed area , therefore , lies entirely within the land .
It is also one ovel which villages and country houses are for the most part closely scattered , and it has thus been possible to obtain a number of careful and detailed accounts .
I have received altogether 391 records from 298 places where the eartlJquake was observed , and 103 others from 97 places where , so far as kno , no trace of it was perceived .
* My inquiries were ried out on the supposition that tectonic earbhquakes are , as a rule , mere incidents in the gradual development of faults , that the shock is caused by the friction whioh resuIts from one rock-mass slipping slightly but heavily over and against the other , the accompanying sound and tremulous motion being due to the exceedingly small and rapid vibrations which proceed chiefly from the margins of the fault-surface over which the slip takes place .
The interpretation of the evidence collected rests on the following inoiples : ( 1 .
) The direction of the fault is pal.allel , or nearly so , to that of longer axis of the disturbed area , or of an isoseismal line .
( 2 .
) The intensity of the shock increases in both directions the fault-line until a maximum is reached , and then decreases , so that The expcnses were defrayed by part of a grant which I the honour to receive from the Government Research Fund .
I regret that I am lJnable to ledge in detail the and courteotls assistance rendcred by my numerous correspondents .
" " On he Nature and Origin of Earth u\ldquo ; ' Geol .
bfag vol. 9 , 1892 , pp. 206\mdash ; 218 .
VOL. LVII .

