Mr. A. J. Ellis 's Contributions to Formal Logic .
April 25 , 1872 .
GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " Contributions to Formal Logic .
" By Alexander J. Ellis , F.R.S. , F.C.P.S. , F.S.A. , \amp ; c. Received March 21 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains the following contributions to Formal Logic :\#151 ; Statement of the Problem of Deductive Logic , with a classification of its cases .
Method of solution for three principal cases , of which the second has not been hitherto formally considered .
New notation and calculus of logical relations .
New system of diagrams , adapted for typography , and coextensive with the system of notation for cases of composition .
Purely logical solution of all the problems within the scope of Boole 's system , with complete results , and without his mathematical analogies or hazardous theories , with a proof that his primary and secondary propositions only partially , and not , as he assumes , wholly obey the same laws .
Fusion of Hamilton 's judgments and De Morgan 's propositions , as part of one system of assertions .
Exhaustive analysis of the syllogism .
Re-cast of the theory and notation of De Morgan 's numerically definite assertions , as the general case of the logic of composition , and a legitimate application of algebra to logic .
Direct passage from the purely logical formulae of consistency to the mathematical formulae of Boole 's system of probabilities .
The above contributions are believed to be entirely original , and are given with the least possible restatement of former theories ; but , for convenience , frequent reference has been made to Boole , De Morgan , Thomson as representing Hamilton , Ueberweg , and Jevons .
Boole and De Morgan have been constantly before my mind , and whatever is common to this paper and their works must be credited to them .
Jevons first led my thoughts in this direction , but all resemblance between us is entirely s superficial .
The problem of deductive logic as here conceived is :\#151 ; Given any '\#166 ; Hons , to determine precisely what they affirm , precisely what they deny , end precisely what they leave in doubt , separately and jointly . .
Assertions have respect to Coexistence or Succession , or both .
Coexistence generates : Composition , arising from the coexistence of different attributes in the same thing , and the coexistence of the same attribute in different things ; 308 The Astronomer Royal on a supposed [ April 25 , Combination , arising from the coexistence of different things , objectively or subjectively , in the same aggregate ; ' Consistency , arising from the coexistence of different events affirmed by different assertions .
Succession generates : Logical inference , Sequence in Space , in Time , and in Action .
^ # # Mixed cases arise from combining assertions of different kinds .
Composition , combination , and consistency only are considered in the present paper .
Composition constitutes the primary , and consistency the secondary propositions of Boole .
Combination has not been distinctly re-cognized in logical works , but is constantly implied in Boole 's and De Morgan 's treatments of Composition , whereby its real character has been overlooked .
Logical Inference is partially considered in the treatment of Composition , Combination , and Consistency .
Sequence in Space , Time , and Action is not treated at all .
Thomson 's , De Morgan 's , and Boole 's notations are carefully interpreted .
Particular attention is paid to Boole 's results for Consistency , and the nature of the error which he committed in accommodating those results to Composition , together with the value of his accommodated results , is exactly determined .
The ascertainment of these errors by a fundamental reconsideration of the bases of the relations of Composition and Consistency , and a purely logical method of obtaining precise results , forms the distinctive character , as it was the special object , of the present investigation .
II .
" On a supposed Periodicity in the elements of Terrestrial Magnetism , with a period of 26- } days.'* By George Biddell Airy , Astronomer Royal .
Received March 26 , 1872 .
In a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna , ' vol. lxiv .
, Dr. Karl Hornstein has exhibited the results of a series of observations which appeared to show that the earths magnetism undergoes a periodical change in successive periods of 26 } days , which might with great plausibility be referred to the rotation of the sun .
" It appeared to me that the deductions from the magnetic observations made at the Royal Observatory of Greenwich , and which are printed annually in the * Greenwich Observations , ' or in the detached copies of ' Results of Magnetical and Meteorological Observations made at .
the Royal Observatory of Greenwich , * would afford good materials for testing the accuracy of this law , as applicable to a series of years .
The mew results of the measured hourly ordinates of the terrestrial magnetic ele* ments are given for every day , and it is certain that there has been no change of adjustments of the declination and horizontal-force instruments in the course of each year .
Por the horizontal-force instrument the te\#174 ;

