]\gt ; element of the normal to S. integral can be shown to include POISSON'S by taking , for , a sphere , of radius with its centre at the point .
In the case of sound , or for any disturbance , KIRCHHOFF'S integral is directly interpretable in terms of imagined sources of disturbance situated on the surface ; for all the that occur can be eted in terms of condensations and yelocities .
It thus as an exact equivalent of principl if the di turbance involved were of a scalar character .
Its application to light is open to criticism see S .
Besides satisfying the partial differential equation ) , the components of a vector quantity , propagated by transverse waves , are also subject to the circuital condition ; and the problem of integrating the system of equations is , accordingly , not the same as the problem of integrating the single equation satisfied by the several components .
Sir G. has attacked tlje more general problem , by extending and transforming POISSON'S solution of the single equation .
He has shown that the components of the disturbance at any point , and at any , can be expressed as the sums of two parts , one depending on initial values on a sphere of radius with its centre at the point , and the other nding on initial values in space outside this sphere .
The latter part is relatively unimportant when , as in the applications made by Sir G. STOKES , the radius of the sphere is great , compared with the wave-length of the disturbance ; the former part has precisely the character required for representing transverse vector disturbances , and it admits of transforma- tion to a form in which it expresses the radiation received at the poin as due to secondary waves sent out from surfaces other than spheres with their centres at O. The transformation to a plane wave front was given in the paper above quoted , and the results , which were deduced from this form of the integrals of the system of equations , have had a very important bearing on the development of the theory .
3 .
The object of this paper is to present an investigation of a new system of frals of the system of equations that govern the propagation of transverse vector disturbances , and to exemplify the use that can be made of such integrals .
The components of the vectors that constitute the disturbance ought to be expressible , as in KIRCHHOFF'S solution , in terms of surface values on an arbitrary surface ; the elements of the integrals ought to be quantities characteristic of transverse vector disturbances , as in Sir G. STOKES'S solution ; and the results ought to admit of interpretation in terms of sources of disturbance of definite types , as KIRCHHOFF'S result does when applied to sound waves .
It is shown that the method developed by KIRCHHOFF can be adapted to the system of equations in such a way as to lead to It is so regarded by , by , ' The'orie math .
de la Lumiet ' vol. 2 ( Paris , 1892 ) , , and by DRUDE , ' Lehrbuch .
Optik .
' ( Leipz .
, 1900 ) , p. 167 .
" " On the Dynamical Theory of Diffraction 'Camb .
Phil. Soc. rans vol. 9 ( 1849 ) , ' Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 241 .
tions ( and ( 30 ) of the paper above quoted , ' Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 268 .
IONS OF PROPAGATION ELECTRIC results of the kin described , and in particular that the disturbances can bc regarded as due to sources of two definite types .
A source of one of these types is similal to an infinitesimal Hertzian vibrator .
The character of the most important part of the radiation from such a vibrator is well known ; it is periodic , with a , coefficient , and is related in a definite way to a particular axis .
The radiation a source of the corresponding type is related in the same way to the axis , but its mode of dependence upon time is arbitrary .
The assumption of infinite trains of simple harmonic radiation , with or without damping coefficients , is an unnecessary restriction of the mathematical formulae , and is inadequate to represent many phenomena .
The other type of sources is arrived at by interchanging of the electric and magnetic forces in the type that is similar to Hertzian vibrators .
There is a theorem that disturbances , which can be represented as due to sources of both types , also be represented as due to sources of a single type , just as acyclic irrotational motions of incompressible fluid may be regarded as due to sources and double sources , or to sources only .
4 .
A very general system of integrals of the system of equations that govern the propagation of ways having been obtained , it is natural to inquire after an expression for the law of a secondary way that shall accord with these integrals .
The expression arrived at is rather simpler than that giyen by Sir G. regards the intensity of the secondary waves , but rather more complicated as regards the orientation of the plane through the direction of displacement and the direction of propagation .
This plane is either the plane of polarisation of the secondary wave , or else it is at right angles to that plane .
At one time it might have been intel.esting to pursue the question further , and to determine the conclusion , as regards the relation of direction of displacement to plane of polarisation , that could be drawn from the new integrals ; but the question is not now of importance , since it is certain , on many grounds , that the plane of polarisation of light contains the magnetic force , and is at right angles to the electric force .
5 .
[ Partly March , 1901.]\mdash ; Apart from this question of the plane of polarisation of scattered waves , the use of a law of disturbance in secondary waves is found in the solution by elementary methods of problems of diffraction ; t , his use is not affectedS by such differences as exist between the law here found and that obtained by Sir G. STOKES .
But , connexion with the application of any such to problems of diffraction through apertures , there also arises the question of the distribution over the aperture of sources that would give rise to the transmitted * The relation to the axis is ths same for ) forms given by HERTZ , ' Electric ' p. 143 , as those given by K. and ALICE LEE , ' Phil. Trans. ' , 193 ( 1899 ) , p. 159 .
The forms given in S13 include both .
LAMB , 'Hydrodynamics , ' pp. 66 and 67 .
'Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 286 .
S Lord RAYLEIGH , ' Wave Theory of Light , ' p. 453 .
tion .
there is no screen , such sources are determined for any imagined directly by the incident diation .
[ But , when there is a distribution of the sources is not determined in the same way by the of the incident radiation that would come to the aperture if the screen were .
It is proved below that the state of the medium on that side of the screen to which incident radiation comes can be expressed by means of two superposed fields of electric and magnetic force .
The forces of one of these fields are expressed in terms of taken over the surface of the aperture ; and the corresponding disturbance a system of standing waves , the amplitudes of which diminish rapidly as the distance the aperture increases .
This disturbance can be described as the " " effect of the \ldquo ; The forces of other field are determined by the actual sources of and the boundary conditions that hold over all the unperforate pol.tion of screen .
This disturbance can be described as the " " incident radiation , as modified by the action of screen It is proyed that , when the latter disturbance is known , system of standing , described as the effect of the , is also known .
Further , it is proved that the distribution , over aperture , of sources that would give rise to the transmitted radiation , is determined by the incident radiation , as modified by the action of the screen , in the same way as , if wele no SCl.een , it would be determined by the incident radiation , unmodified .
The optical rule ignores the modification of the incident radiation by the action of the screen , and the success of rule appears to show that the effect of this modification on transmitted radiation is practically unimportant when the is short .
] 6 .
The esults obtained , in rega1 to the effect of an aperture , can be applied also to the ) roblem of the communication of electrical vibrations from a condenser to the external medium , the outer conducting sheet of the condenser being perforated by a small aperture , for , in this case , full account has been taken of the boundaryconditions at the conducting surfaces in calculating the normal modes of vibration .
The communication of electrical oscillations from an electrical vibrator to the rounding medium presents a problem , which has hitherto been solved in a few very special cases .
The best known example is that of a spherical conductor , over which , at some instant , charge is distributed otherwise than according to the equilibrium law .
The waves emitted have definite periods , but they decay so rapidly as to be practica ] lie dead-beat .
Such a system sends out into the medium a pulse of diation , rather than a of radiation .
The greater permanence of the vibrations of HERTZ'S " " resonators and of condensing systems , has been connected with the existence of greater electrostatic capacity in such systems ; but no * The problem is solved by J. J. }IObISON , 'Recent Researches , ' pp. 361 et seq. The rate of decay of the oscillations is discussed on p. 370 .
J. J. TIIOMSON , ' Recent Rcscarches , ' p. 396 .
Cf .
J. 'London Math. Soc. Proc vol. 26 , p. 123 , footllote .
EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF LLECTRIC problem of the decay of oscillations of a system with large capacity , through the gradual transmission of the energy to a distance , has so far been solved .
For a condenser with collcentric spherical conducting surfxces , the outer conducting sheet being very thin , and having a small circular aperture , the problem can be solved by means of previously known analysis and of results obtained in this paper .
It appears that , so long as the outer conducting sheet , and the of the aperture , remain the same , the rate of decay of the oscillations diminishes , as the capacity diminishes ; the oscillations of a condenser with small capacity , obtained by making the radius of the inner sheet small compared with that of the outer , are much more slowly damped than those of a condenser of large capacity , obtained by making the radii nearly equal .
This result applies to the oscillations of high frequency , inyolving a large number of nodes , as well as to those of lower uency ; and it suggests the comparative permanence of the oscillations of condensing systems is to be traced , rather to the screening action , than to the in cl.ease of capacity .
further result , that the oscillations of high frequency and many nodal divisions , are more rapidly damped than those of lower frequency and fewer nodal divisions , is in accordance with the conclusions arrived at by Sir G. STOKES , for the like problems concerning sound .
[ Added , , 1901.\mdash ; Since the paper was sent in , I have found that a similar method of integration has been employed by V. CERRUTI , 'Rome , R. Acc .
Lincei , Rend 1879-80 , for the equations of small motion of an elastic solid .
The fundamental particular solutions , there used , are the same as ( 17 ) of S ; and the solution of the problem of the vibrations of a solid , with a given boundary , over which the displacements , or the tractions , have assigned values , is developed on the basis of an existence-theorem , of the same kind as that assumed in S21 ; no application is made of the results to problems of radiation .
] KIRCHHOFF'S Integral .
7 .
Suppose that is a function with the following properties : ( 1 ) Outside a given closed surface and its first and second differential coefficients , with respect to , are everywhere finite and continuous ; ( 2 ) vanishes at infinite distances from ; , 1901.\mdash ; Mr. LARMOR has called my attention to the fact that the work in the paper does not show tha6 all of increasing the capacity , without altering the outer conductor or the aperture , are accompanied by increased dissipation .
For instance , the capacity of the condenser might be increased by displacing the inner conductor relatively to the outer , without altering its size and shape , or by replacing part of the dielectric plate by conducting material .
In such cases there are some analogiss with other physical problems , which suggest a diminished rate of dissipation .
Against them must be set the analogy with the problem worked out in the present paper .
'Phil .
Trans vol. 158 ( 1868 ) .
( 3 ) satisfies the equation . . . . . .
( 1 ) , at all points outside being a definite constant , and denoting the operator The value of at any point outside , and at time , can be expressed as a surface-integral taken over ; in fact this value is ( 2 ) , where denotes element of the normal to drawn outwards ( i.e. , into the region of space where is situated ) , and the expressions in square brackets are to be formed , for each point of the surface , at the time being the distance of the point of the surface from the point O. This theorem was obtained by by an application of GREEN'S theorem to the function auxiliary function which satisfies equation ( 1 ) at all points except , and has the form , ( 3 ) , where is a function to which suitable properties are assigned .
8 .
[ Partly -written March , ] were the velocity potential of sound waves in air , the terms of ( 2 ) that contain and would be interpretable in terms of velocity , and those that contain would be interpretable in terms of condensation ; the expression ( 2 ) would represent the motion at any poin as due to sources of definite types distributed over the surface S. But , if is one of the components of a vector quantity , propagated by transverse ways , has no physical significance , and the expression ( 2 ) cannot be interpreted in terms of appropriate sources of disturbance .
Again , the expression ( 2 ) may be interpreted as showing that element of the surface becomes the centre of diverging secondary waves .
If is one of the components of a vector quantity , and the primary waves are transverse , the application of Kirchhoff 's theorem is open to the criticism that the secondary waves are not always Vorlesungen math .
Optik , ' pp. 23-27 .
The theorem referred to is the one expressed by the equation EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF ELECTRIC transverse , although , when synthesised , the disturbance , to which they give rise , is transverse .
[ The criterion of transversality of a vector disturbance , propagated by wave motion , is that the vector concerned is everywhere circuital ; and this implies that , in the case of diverging waves , the direction of the vector tends , at great distances from the source , to be at right angles to the radius , drawn from the source .
Now , if we take , for example , the electric radiation represented by the expressions in S 1.3 , and choose , as the surface , a sphere , with its centre at the source , the magnetic force at the point would be parallel to the axis integral would represent the magnetic force , at any point , as made up of components , contributed by secondary waves , diverging from the elements of ; and , in the wave diverging from , the agnetic force would be everywhere parallel to the axis .
It can be veriiied readily , by forming the expression for this force , that it is not circuital ; but it can be seen at once , without forming this expression , that the secondary wave is not transverse ; for , at any distance , however great , it is not at right angles to the radius vector , unless is in the plane .
The particular example is sufficient to substantiate the criticism ; but a little reflexion shows that there is nothing peculiar to the example .
In general , let vector , and suppose that at some point the direction of the vector is independent of the time , we may take the surface to pass through the point , and take the axis parallel to the direction of the vector at the point ; then and vanish ; the equations and will represent two surfaces passing through the point , and we may take the direction of the normal to , at the point , to be the line of intersection of these surfaces .
Then and vanish at the point , ffi all times .
In the secondary wave sent out from the point , the vector is everywhere parallel to the axis accordingly , the secondary wave is not a transverse wave .
] Equations of Propagation of 9 .
The equations of propagation of electric waves in free aether are curl ( 4 ) , - curl where denotes the electric force , measured electrostatically , the etic force , in electromagnetic measure , and the velocity of propagation of electrical effects .
I propose to adopt , as a means of formal simplification , and without attaching to it any definite physical meaning , the that may be regarded as a " " generalised velocity and to introduce the corresponding " " generalised displacement\ldquo ; so that ( 5 ) .
I also introduce the vector by the equation curl . . . . .
( 6 ) , so that twice rotation \ldquo ; corresponding displacement .
The first of equations ( 4 ) becomes . . . . .
( 7 ) , and , according to the view above referred to , this equation may be regarded as expressing a purely kinematical relation , while the second of equations ( 4 ) gives the equations of motion of the aether .
They are , ?
( 8 ) , with the circuital relation ( 9 ) .
Further , it is convenient derive fro1ll a vector potential by the equation curl . . . . .
( 10 ) , * J. RMOR , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 185 , Part II ( 1894 ) .
QUATIONS OF ATlON OF CTRIC taking to satisfy the same system of eIltial e satisfied by vectors and connected equations . . . . .
It is also conyenient sometimes to ( the fundamental in the curl quantity will solloti]nes be called the electric \ldquo ; ; it of the ; itnti be called " " netic d\ldquo ; ulential would be expl.essed , in the above notation by .
of ' Solution , Sources of rbcmcc .
10 .
It has been out that method of integration of ( 1 ) depends on application of a certain to two having .
Whell seek to method to the system of equations ( 8 ) and ) ) , we al.enlet at the outset the difficulty that no simultaneous solutions of the form ( 3 ) exist , by eceHsity devisin some forms of solution , which shall become infinite at the functions .
If we the ) .
to of the of seeking solutions of the hystell ( 8 ) , which correspond to harmonics of ) once suggests itself If in equation ( 1 ) we put where , is a spherical surface harmonic of order , and is it Ilctio of ) lind for an equation which can be written .
By the relations* The melhod lbed in of L. , ' Phil. .
VOL. CXCVII .
\mdash ; A. PROFESSOR A. L. H. ON THE GRATION OF and , where is any function of , we find for the form , ( 13 ) an arbitrary functions .
It is now easy to write down simultaneous of the system of equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) .
Taking to represent a spherical solid harmonic of positive degree writing , . . . . . . .
( 14 ) , set of such solutions is given by the equation ; ( 15 ) second set of such solutions is obtained by taking the of the first set .
We should find example , after a little reduction , ( 16 ) .
The solutions given by ( 15 ) may be referred to as " " solutions of the first type those given by equations such as ( 16 ) , as " " solutions of the second type 11 .
For ) immediate purpose it will be sufficient to take and .
The nents of a vector which yields a solution of the first type are , ( 17 ) the components of the curl of this vector are ' \mdash ; , ( 18 ) .
the ions that occur simple tions of the time , the solntion of the biml)iIied syslem of }lions is well known .
mics , ' pp. EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF In these expressions is any solution of the equation .
( 19 ) .
It is worth while to observe that the components of the curl of the vector represented by ( 18 ) are , ( 20 ) .
12 .
We may use the results just obtained to describe two types of sources of electromagnetic disturbances .
We shall take to be a function of , say ( ct \mdash ; ) . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ] ) .
In the case of sources of the first type , the magnetic force is axial , and the lines of electric force are circles about the axis ; when the axis is the axis of , the vector potential has the form ; ( 22 ) the netic displacement has the form , ( 23 ) ; and the electric displacement has the form , ; ( 24 ) .
In these formulae the dots denote partial entiation with respect to the time .
The axis of the source is the axis of , corresponding to in S 11 ; when the axis of the source is in the direction the result will be obtained by adding the expressions for the component vectors due to sources in the directions of the axes , and given by putting l\fnof ; m , and in place of ( with cyclical interchanges of the letters ) .
If the source is at the point instead of the origin , we have to write \mdash ; y\fnof ; mC in place of , and take to be the distance of from 13 .
In the case of sources of the second type , the electric force is axial , and the lines of magnetic force are circles about the axis ; when the axis is the axis of .
, the vector potential has the form the magnetic displacement has the form ) , , , ( 26 ) , and the electric displacement has the form , ( 28 ) . .
The most important part of the radiation due to a Hertzian vibrator appears to be this type .
* The functions and , which figure in the expressions for the electric and magnetic placements due to sources of the two types , will be referred to as the " " radiation fnnctions\ldquo ; for the sources .
Tn the expressions ] lere obtained the source at the origin , and its is the axis of ; the expressions for the displacements due to a source , of arbitrary position direction , can be deduced as before .
Tloe Reciprocal theorem .
14 .
be a possible system of magnetic displacements , and the corresponding electric displacements , which are free from singularities in space ounded one or more closed surfaces , denoted collectively by S. Then , . . .
are functions of , which , with their first and second differential coefficients , finite and continuous throughout this space .
Denoting differentiation with to by a dot , we observe ] the equations of motion ] be obtained by the variation of the Action function , ' ectric t ' p. 143 .
A factor is omitted .
We integrate this equation with respect to the time , between two fixed values and t , and we thus the equation ( 31 ) .
If { he functioJls involved are such that the volume integl.al on the vanishes , ftnd the order of rations on the left can be interchanged , we have , ( 32 ) .
This equation plays the same part in the present theory as GREEN'S equation V and being harmonic , plays in the Theory of Potential .
Integration of the Equations .
15 .
We shall now suppose the boundaries of ] region of space , to which the theorem of S 14 is applied , to be ( 1 ) a closed surface containing none of the singularities of the functions , ( 2 ) a small sphere with its centre at a point , inside .
Then , taking as origin , we shall assume for the expressions ( 17 ) of S 11 , and for the corresponding expressions ( 18 ) .
For at we have to put , and the contribution of to the left-hand member of ( 31 ) becomes .
We take !
to ) of the form , so that ' ( 34 ) , EQUATIONS OF rION OF } .
suppose*that the function is zero values of its gtlmsnt except such its lie in the interval between , where and are two very small positive numbers ; further , we suppose that between these values becomes so great that .
We may then choose and so that , is the radius the , and ; then we shall have , provided is sutHciently small , these will hold negative value of and positive value of With this choice of , the second line of the expression ( 33 ) )econles \mdash ; in the limit , when is indefinitely diminished , being the value of the point and the time the first line of the expression ' we develope ?
in such forms as terms of higher where ( indicates that the value at is to be taken ; we observe that that , when is diminished indefinitely , of the first line is the same as that of or it is \mdash ; * The , is } ) from \ldquo ; ) . .
I H. ON THE OF THE , the ibutio of to the left-hand member of equation ( 31 ) is In obtaining this result , we have interchanged the order of the integration with respect to the integration oyer the surface .
This step is certainly permissible if the subject of is , in each case , a continuous function of all the values that occulquation ( S5 ) and this condition can be satisfied any lllln]I)el of , and , in , by taking a very large value of , and putting , ruvided ) that is small of Witb the same choice of , the ember of equation have it this it is sufiicient , for ) points , bhe ntities n should be tely z either , is the case if is negative is positive all values of that occur .
Equation ( 31 ) then takes the . . .
, here 1face integration is taken ovel only .
quantity and have values , which extre11lely to , only when is to ) the distance of ) the point O. The with } ) to , in the left-hand lnenlbel of , can accol'dingly be out by ) sel.ving the rules We find ) oint O time EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF ELECTRIC ways .
\mdash ; , ( 38 ) , in which the values of , . . .
, at any point of the surface , at time are to be calculated , and the integral formed with these values .
16 .
In this equation , the point is the origin , and the point is on the surface We can express the value of , at any point , and at any time , by suitable changes .
We have to for and , in the expressions for . . .
in terms of and , we have to substitute for , where is the distance between the points and Further , when the form of has been obtained , the forms for and can be written down by symmetry , and the forms for can be deduced from those for , by Wl.iting instead of , and instead of It is convenient to have , for reference , the explicit expression of the results .
For we have \mdash ; mu VOL. CXCVII .
And for we have ( nu\mdash ; l ) Ir- all these is to be put for before EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF LECTRIC WAVES .
17 .
It may be verified without b.y using KIRCHHOFF'S method that the integrals written down in S 16 , when taken over a closed surface , not the point , but containing all the singularities of the functions represent the values of , .
at the external point , provided the normal is drawn towards the exterior of S. It may also be verified , in the same way , that , if the surface contains the point and all the singularities of the functions , the integrals in question vanish identically .
A particular case , which leads to a verification of the formulae , is afforded by taking the surface to be a sphere , of radius , havin its centre at the point .
For this we have and the values of the quantities , . . .
, at points on , are the initial values , , . . .
of these quantities .
Now the terms of that contain explicitly are which \mdash ; where the volume integrations extend through the volume within , and the last volume integral vanishes identically .
Again , the terms that contain explicitly are , which Further , the terms that contain explicitly can be written by observing that The integral last written is of which the volume integral vanishes identically .
The terms which contain explicitly , and those whicf ] contain explicitly , may be transformed in the same way , and we have finally ; ( 39 ) ; and this is identical with POISSON'S integral* of the equation in terms of initial conditions .
18 .
The results can be interpreted in terms of sources of disturbance of two types previously investigated .
Any point of the surface must be regarded as the seat of a source of the first and of a source of the second type .
The axis of the source of the first type is at right angles to the direction of , and is tangential to the surface ; its radiation function is the product of , the resultant of and the sine of the angle , which the direction of this resultant makes with the normal to the surface .
The source of the first type is equivalent to three sources , with their axes parallel to the coordinate axes , and with radiation functions equal to ; these expressions , for any point on the surface , are functions of , and they take the characteristic form of radiation functions , when is substituted for The axis of source of the second type is at right angles to the direction of , and is tangential to the surface ; its radiation function is the product of the resultant of and the sine of the angle , which the direction of this resultant makes with the normal to the surface .
The source of the second type is equivalent to three sources , with their axes parallel to the coordinate axes , and with radiation functions equal to ; * The form of usually given requires the performance of differentiation , with respect to , upon an integral taken over a sphere of radius , and thus , when the tiation is carried out , there will ) thrce terms in the )lele expression ; it is easy to verify that these terms are precisely tbose given in .
EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF ELECTRIC WAVES .
these expressions are to be formed for any time , and then is to be substituted for in them .
Reduction to Single Type of 19 .
We may seek to express our results in terms of sources of a single type , instead of using two types of sources .
The method to be followed is analogous to that used by GREEN for the Theory of Potential.$ If is a function , which is harmonic at all points outside a closed surface , the value of V at an external point is , . . . . .
( 40 ) , where is the element of the normal to drawn outwards , and is distance from O. If now V ' is harmonic within , and equal to V on the surface , this becomes , ( 41 ) , where is the element of the normal to drawn inwards .
This result is obtained from the reciprocal theorem both V ' and being harmonic at all points within S. Further , we know that there cannot be two funct , ions satisfying the conditions satisfied by V ' ; the theorem that there is one such function is the fundamental existence-theorem of the Theory of Potential .
The expression ( 40 ) may be interpreted in terms of sources and doublets on ; the expression ( 41 ) admits of a similar interpretation in terms of sources only .
20 .
In adapting this process to the present theory , we begin by proving that there cannot be two sets of related vectors which ( 1 ) are free from singularities at all points within a closed surface ; ( 2 ) satisfy the system of equations ( 12 ) of S 9 at ) all points within ; ( 3 ) yield the same tangential components , for either of the two vectors , at all points on ; ( 4 ) vanish throughout the space within for some value of If there were two such sets , their differences and would satisfy * GREEN , 'Math .
Papers , ' p. 29 .
LAMB , ' Hydrodynamics , ' pp. , 67 .
the conditions ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) , and either or would be normal at eyery point on ; so that we should have either or being the direction cosines of the normal to drawn inwards .
In both cases Now this integral is the integral being taken through the volume within , and this is since and vanish when .
The expression last obtained cannot vanish , unless and vanish , at all times , and at all points within S. This proves the theorem .
It follows from this theorem that , if either the tangential components of , or those of , are given at all points of , the solution of equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) of S 9 is unique .
21 .
Now let ) and , ) be two sets of possible netic displacements , for which there are no singularities within a closed surface ; and let . . .
be the corresponding vector potentials , and . . .
the corresponding electric displacements .
ppose further that , at a certain time all these vanish at all points within S. We shall apply the theorem of S 14 to these vectors .
We identify the set with suffix 2 with set previously accented ( S 15 ) , so that , . . .
, the point , which is the sole singularity of the accented set , being outside S. Then the right-hand member of equation ( 31 ) vanishes , and we have If there is a set of magnetic and electric displacements , free from singularities within , and making the tangential components of the vector potential on the QUATIO OF PROPAGATION OF ELFCTRIC same as those in the solution for external space , this set also makes the tangential components of electric displacement the same as those in the solution for ernal space ; we take this to be the set with suffix 1 , so that , on . . .
Equation of S15 now becomes \mdash ; \mdash ; Hm , . . .
( 42 ) .
The corresponding equation for would be . . .
( 43 ) .
The results would thus be interpretable in terms of sources of the second type only , the radiation functions of the sources depending upon the surface values of , in the same way as those in S18 depended upon the surface values of .
We might , in a similar way , show how the general forms of the displacements could be expressed in terms of sources of the first type only .
It is to be noted that this reduction of the number of types of sources has depended upon the possibility of choosing a time , before which there is no disturbance at any point within the given closed surface , and also that it involves an eorem , which has not been proved .
For a sphere , the existence-theorem could be proved by help of the formulae in S10 .
Law of Disturbance in 22 .
As a first application of the general formulae we may cider the law of disturbance in a secondary wave .
We suppose that simple harmonic plane waves , of the simplest type , polarised in the plane , and propagated parallel to the axis of , are to be resolved into secondary waves due to sources , situated on the wave front .
Let the primary waves be given by ( 44 ) .
The disturbance at any point , for which , is given by the following equatio1ls , in which now denote the direction cosines of the lin , of length , drawn from the point to the poin - , ( 45 ) .
dx'dy ' , ( 46 ) . .
Also dx'dy ' , ( 48 ) .
- sin , ( 49 ) .
dx'dy ' ( 50 ) .
At a great distance , the contribution of the element of area to is ; ( 51 ) ; the magnitude of this contribution is , ( 52 ) , and its direction is at right angles to that of , and makes with the plane the same angle that this plane makes with the plane .
This direction is shown by EQUATIONS OF ATION OF FLECTRIC AVES .
the point in a spherical figure ( fig. 2 ) , in which represents the direction of propagation of the primary waves , the direction of , NX is the great circle of which is pole , NI is the great circle of which is pole , and is on NI produced so that NP NX .
It is easy to verify that the direction cosines of the radius vector , drawn from the centre of the sphere to , are Again , at a great distance the plane , the contribution of the element of area to is ; ( 53 ) : and its magnitude is ; ( 54 ) ; its direction might be shown by means of a construction si nlilar to that used ' the direction of the contribution to .
The result obtained by Sir G. STOKES* would be expressed , in the notation employed , by the statements that the magnitude of the contribution of the element to is , . . . . .
( 55 ) , and that its direction is that which would be shown by the point antipodal to where RX and NI intersect ( fig. 2 ) .
It has been pointed out by Lord BAYLEIGII that 'Wave Theory of Light , ' pp. 4.52 , ) VOL. CXCVII .
\mdash ; A. such factors as and are of no importance in the ordinary applications of expressions for the law of disturbance in secondary waves , and that , in fact , the enquiry after such a law involves a certain ambiguity .
In the above deduction of such a law , we have used the general formulae involving sources of two types ; if we could have used formulae involving sources of one type only , the result would probably have been different ; this is the origin of the ambiguity referred to by Lord RAYLEIGH .
23 .
There is another difficulty attending the deduction of a law of disturbance in secondary waves from formulae applicable to the propagation of a system of plane waves , .
: that integrals such as ( 45 ) taken over an infinite plane are not convergent .
The disturbances in the secondary waves ought to combine to give rise to the disturbance actually propagated , or the result of the integration ought to be to reproduce the displacements in the primary wave .
If we form such an integral as ( 45 ) for a portion of the plane and afterwards extend the boundaries of this portion indefinitely , we do not arrive at a definite limit .
Let be the point at which the disturbance is to be estimated , the foot of the perpendicular from on the plane ( fig. 3 ) , and let the portion of the plane be bounded by a circle , of radius , with its centre at .
We introduce plane polar coordinates , with origin at , and put ; then the value of the expression ( 46 ) for is and this vanishes identically , however great may be , on account of the symmetry of the circular boundary ; it would not have vanished if we had taken a boundary of a shape , or a circular boundary with its centre away from .
With the boundary chosen as above , we could show that vanish .
To form the expression for ?
, we put sin , EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF CTRIC WAVES .
and remember that and are constants in the integration ; we find This is immediately integrable , and we ' ; . . . .
; and , when is very great , this is approximately equal to \mdash ; . . . . . .
( 57 ) .
Thus the value of for the primary wave is reproduced by the secondary waves sent out from the parts of the plane , which are not at a very great distance .
In like manner we should find for the value giying , when is great , the approximate value ; . . . . .
( 58 ) ; and , as before , the value for the primary wave is reproduced by the secondary waves sent out from the parts of the plane , which are not at a very great distance .
Both for and for , the distant parts of the plane contribute something finite to the disturbance ; just as , in the ordinary elementary theory , remain a portion of a ' zone uncompensated ; such portions are always disregarded .
The difficulty here considered entirely from our having applied to infinite plane , formulae , which were obtained on the express supposition that the surface , to which they are applied , lies entirely within a finite distance of the point , at quation ( determines the intensity , at a point on the axis , of light diffracted a circular aperture , the incident light being parallel , and the ordinary optical rule being assumed to hold ( SS24 , 30 ) . .
BASSET , ' Physical Optics , ' p. 46 , or Lord RAYLEIGH , ' Theory of Light , ' p. 429 .
2 .
A. .
H. TIII ATION OF the is stinlated .
The culty could not be eyaded by adopting a dineren of in secondary waves , and one aspect of it has been noticed by Si ] G. ' in lexio with the law obtained by him .
The difficulty would if took a systeln of diyerging ways , and resolved the disturbance a , outside spherical wave front , into secondary waves due to of oyer this front .
difficulties of integration are , yever , in case considerable ; when the point is at a great distance from the spllel.e , the ] be eyaluated approximately , and it can be verified that the disturbance ) nding to the wave is reproduced .
24 .
oblem of the passage of radiation across an aperture in a screen would involve a solution of the general equations ( 4 ) or ( 12 ) of S 9 , subject to boundary conditions holding all over both faces of the screen ; and , unless the incident radiation and the shape of the edge have very simple characters , this cannot at present be attempted .
In the theory of diffraction , it is customary to assume that the disturbance points of the aperture , to which the disturbance the further side is due , is that which would be found at those if there were no eeIl , and also that the elements of the surface of the screen contribute nothing to the disturbance on the further side .
In the Theory of Sound , has justified the use of a somewhat similar assumption in the problem of the open ] .
In the present theory the question may be formulated as follows:\mdash ; A train of radiation is propagated on one side of a surface towards the surface ; there is an aperture in the surface , and the transmitted radiation is to be represented as due to in the rture ; how must such sources be distributed [ 25 .
-written )\mdash ; We simplify the general question by means of two suppositions:\mdash ; ( l. ) that the incident radiation is represented by simple harmonic functions of the time , with period that the surface is plane .
The first of these enables us to eliminate all vector potentials , by the rule . . . . .
( 59 ) .
It will appear later that the second supposition constitutes a practically unimportant restriction , when the is small .
We shall take the plane to be given by the equation , and shall suppose that the incident radiation is propagated on the nearer side ( Ths transmitted radiation , on the further side pers , , p. 288 . .
Lord , ' Theory of Light , ' p. 429 . .
A. SOMMERFELD , 'Math .
Theorie ction , ' hIath .
Ann. , vol. 47 ( 1896 ) .
, ' Wave Theory of Light , ' p. 430 ; or heory of ' vol. 2 , S291 .
'J . .
Math. ( Crelle ) , ' 57 ( 1859 ) or .
Abh vol. 1 , EQUATIONS OF PROPA ATION LLECTRIC being regarded as due to nagined sources , situated in the ] ) ertul.e , can be calculated directly from the formulae of ] 6 , by first assigning certain functions of as the forms of , . . .
under the sign of integration , then Qubstituting t for , and finally integrating oyer the aperture .
We shall take the forms , that are to be substituted , for , . . .
under the sign of integration , to be given by the equations sin ( 60 ) , ct where , . . .
are functions of , for which ( 61 ) , and similarly for .
Further , we shall denote the v.alues of , , resulting from the integrations , by , The answer to the general question of S24 , will thus lie in the determine ation of the functions , . . .
These functions can be regarded as the values , at certain times , and at points within the aperture , of a certain system of magnetic and electric displacements .
] 26 .
Before proceedin it will be convenient to record the forms for , . . .
in terms of the functions , . . .
It will be sufficient to put down the terms that contain .
We observe that in the formulae of S16 , ( 62 ) ; ; and we also observe that , when the surface is a portion of a plane we must have , the point being on the side .
We can therefore write down the formulae for , . . .
, . . .
as follows:\mdash ; - ct ( ct \mdash ; ( 63 ) , ct sin ct - , .
( 64 ) , ct \mdash ; ( ct \mdash ; ct .
( 65 ) ; dx'dy ' ct sin } , ct - , ct ( ct \mdash ; ) ( ( 68 ) .
Here the parts of ?
, that arise from , . . .
are written down , the terms in being omitted .
[ 27 .
vritten \mdash ; The forms of the expressions for , .
have an important bearing on the determination of the functions ?
, . . .
The integrals , EQUATIONS OF PROPA ATION OF LECTRIC WAVES .
which occur in these expressions , represent functions , which are continuous , and have definite values , at all points , that do not lie in the plane , and within the aperture .
At points within the aperture , the functions , defined by these integrals , present discontinuities of one or other of three following kin The integral , obtained by replacing by is convergent , and is different from the limit obtained by bringing up to coincidence with through values , for which , or through values , for which ; these two limits are finite and definite , and they are not the same .
The term of ( 63 ) , containing , is an example of this peculiarity .
The integral , obtained by replacing by convergent ; limit obtained bringing up to coincidence with on either side , is finite and definite , and these limits are the same .
The term of ( 65 ) , containing , is an example of this peculiarity .
The integral obtained by replacing by is not convergent , nor is any definite limit obtained by bringing up to coincidence with on either side ; but the difference of the two values , obtained by taking at two points , near the aperture , and on opposite sides of it , can be made less than any assigned quantity by sufficiently diminishing the distance between the points .
The term of ( 63 ) , containing , is an example of this peculiarity .
The discontinuity of the expressions for , . . .
arises from the representation the disturbance on the further side as due to imagined sources in the aperture ; there are not really any sources in the aperture , but the disturbance on the further side is continuous with the disturbance on the nearer side To restore continuity , it is most convenient to regard the disturbance on the nearer side as consisting of two superposed disturbances , denoted by A and B. The disturbance A is represented by functions , which are continuous in a region of space , containing all the points within the aperture , and within a finite distance on either side of it ; these functions have no singularities on the nearer side , except the actual sources of the incident radiation .
The disturbance is represented by functions which have no singularities on the nearer side , but have discontinuities at the aperture , and these discontinuities may be of any of the kinds presented by the expressions for , . . .
We shall denote the magnetic and electric displacements , that belong to the disturbance , by , . . .
, , . . .
, and those that belong to the disturbance A by , . . .
, , . . .
The displacements , that belong to the disturbances A and , satisfy the general equations of S 9 .
We shall take them to be given by the following equations:\mdash ; for ct , ( 69 ) ; *Cf .
POINCARE , 'Theorie du Potentiel Newtonien ' , ( 70 ) .
ct , We have now to express the conditions of continuity of magnetic and electric displacement at the aperture .
We suppose that , . . .
are formed for a point and that . . .
are formed for a point and we take any point in the aperture .
The functions , . .
are continuous in the neighbourhood of , and have definite values at Q. We form the difference , and allow and to approach by any paths , ae the tangents to which at do not lie in the plane of the aperture .
Then the conditions of continuity are ( 71 ) .
The functions . . .
satisfy the general equations of S9 at all points on the nearer side and are free from singularities in this region ; these COlJditions , with the conditions of continuity ( 71 ) , suffice to determine the functions in questio1J , in terms of the functions , . . .
introduced in S 25 .
One such determination will be worked out presently ; here it is important to observe that it is effectively unique .
The conditions ( 71 ) require , in fact , that the discontinuities of , . . .
should be arranged so as to cancel exactly those of , . . .
Now let us suppose that two sets of functions , . . .
, and , . . .
have been found , both of which obey all the conditions imposed upon the functions , . . .
; their differences , . . .
have no discontinuities at the aperture , and no singularities on the noal.er side ; thus disturbance represented by , . . .
belongs to the disturbance The path of I ' lies , of course , entirely in the region and that of in the region EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF ELECTRIC WAVES .
, and not to the disturbance B. The relation between A and is similar to that between the " " complementary function\ldquo ; and a " " particular integral\ldquo ; of a linear differential equation , with a right-hand member ; the difference between two particular integrals is part of the complementary function .
* Perhaps the simplest way of building up the functions , . . .
is to act upon a hint , derived from a study of HELMHOLTZ'S theory of acoustical resonators .
We may , in fact , attempt to satisfy the conditions , by regarding the disturbance as consisting of a system of standing waves ; and we find that the method thus suggested is successful .
We shall proceed on the assumption that the displacements , represented by , .
, constitute a system of standing waves .
] 28 .
JJaving regard to the proposed plan of passing to a limit when the poin is brought to coincidence with we see that especial importance attaches to the limiting values of such expressions as ct ct , which , in S 26 , have uniformly been placed in ; and it appears that all these limiting values are numerical multiples of .
This remark indicates that the discontinuities of the terms ?
, are independent of those of the terms , . . .
Again , when the expressions are , as above , replaced by their limiting values , it appears that every term in , .
might be interpreted as a differential coefficient , either of the first order , or of the second order , of the potential of a distribution of surface density on the area within the aperture .
Now it is that , the charged surface coinciding with the plane const .
, first differential coefficients of the potential with respect to and are continuous in crossing the surface , and the first differential coefficient with respect to has a definite discontinuity ; further , it is known that all second differential coefficients are continuous in crossing the surface , except the two that are formed by differentiating with respect to once and either or once .
These considerations guide us to a proper choice of displacements in the standing waves represented by , . . .
; for example , in the second line of the expression for , the factors must be retained , and multiplied by a function of and , of which the limit at is .
But we should not arrive at a proper choice by replacing the expressions in by their limiting values ; for the system of displacements thus arrived at would not satisfy the fundamental differential equations .
This consideration suggests that * FORSYTH , ' Treatise on Differential Equations , ' See the memoir already quoted , particularly equation , HELMHOLTZ , 'Wiss .
vol. 1 , p. 377 .
Cf .
, 'Theorie du Potentiel Newtonien , ' VOL. CXCVIL \mdash ; A. the functions of .
and , that are to replace the expressions in , being factors in certain particular solutions of the differential equations , and even functions of could arrived at by changing , in into , and taking half the sum ; for example we should replace ct \mdash ; ct by or by .
This comes to the same thing as picking out from each expression in the terms that contain , and rejecting those that contain We accordingly take for ?
, . . .
forms given by such equations as ct dx'dy ' - , ( 72 ) , - ( 73 ) .
29 .
According to explanations already given , we shall have . . . . .
( 74 ) .
Again is the limit of - EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF ELECTRIC WAVES .
; 35 We write , and similarly for , and integrate by parts ; the result contains a line integral round the boundary of the aperture and a surface integral , and the former contributes nothing to the limit we are seeking , unless the point is indefinitely close to the boundary of the aperture .
Thus the limit we are seeking is that of ; in this expression , the two last lines vanish in the limit , and the others yield the value at of Thus we have and it follows that the conditions of continuity are satisfied by putting ( 76 ) .
By this result , the transmitted waves on the further side are connected with the waves on the nearer side ; and it is manifest that the result would not be disturbed if the surface were not plane , provided that all the linear dimensions of the aperture are small compared with the radii of curvature of the surface .
[ 30 .
Partly written \mdash ; We return now to the general question propounded in S 24 , and seek to estimate the character of the answer that we have found .
In S25 the question , is made more precise by showing that the distribution over the aperture of sources to which the transmitted radiation can be regaJ:ded as ' due , depends upon the values , at certain times and at points within the aperture , of a certain system of magnetic and electric displacements ; these values are the quantities denoted by , .
In S26 the transmitted radiation is expressed in terms of these quantities ; the functions by which it is expressed are those denoted by , . . .
These functions are defined for points on the further side by expressions which are not continuous up to and across the aperture ; but they represent the transmitted radiation at any finite distance from the aperture .
The actual disturbance is continuous up to and across the aperture .
We seek accordingly to represent the disturbance on the nearer side by means of functions which are defined for the nearer side , but are not continuous up to and across the aperture , the discontinuities bein so arranged that the displacements on the nearer side shall be continuous with those on the further side .
In S27 we separate the expressions of these functions into two parts , thus regardin the disturbance on the nearer side as consisting of two superposed disturbances , there called A and B. The functions representing the disturbance A are continuous up to and across the aperture ; those representing the disturbance are not ; } ) their discontinuities cancel exactly those of the functions , . . .
The determination of is in a certain sense unique .
In S28 we verify the supposition that may be regarded as a system of standing waves , by actually determining , in accordance with this supposition , the functions involved in , . . .
, in terms of the functions , . . .
In S29 we show that the displacements , of which the functions ?
, . .
.-are the values , at certain times , and at points within the aperture , are the displacements belonging to the disturbance A. The disturbance and the transmitted radiation are thus determined in terms of , and the general question of S24 is reduced to the determination of A. The components , . . .
, of A are subject to the following conditions:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) On the nearer side they satisfy the equations of S 9 everywhere , except possibly at certain singular points .
( 2 .
) These singular points are the actual sources of the incident radiation .
( 3 .
) The functions , . . .
, . . .
are continuous up to , and across , the aperture .
( 4 .
) At all points of the screen , not points of the aperture , they satisfy certain boundary conditions .
The boundary conditions depend , to some extent , on the material of the screen ; and they will usually take the form that some components of electric or magnetic displacement vanish .
The components , affected by the condition , are those of the displacement on the nearer side compounded of A and , i.e. , such quantities as ; but , as falls off rapidly , with increasing distance from the aperture , it will generally be sufficient to impose the boundary condition on the components of A only .
We may now give the following interpretation of the analysis : disturbance , consisting of a system of standing waves , which are important in the neighbourhood of the aperture only , can be described as the " " effect of the aperture The disturbance A can be described as " " the incident radiation , as modified by the action of the screen The result of S29 can be stated in the form:\mdash ; The transmitted radiation is to be calculated ffom the incident radiation , as modified by the action EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF ELECTRIC ways .
of the screen , in the same way as if this radiation passed freely through the aperture .
This result differs from the ordinary optical rule , that the transmitted radiation is to be calculated from the incident radiation , unmodified , as if this radiation passed freely through the aperture .
In the application of this rule no attention is paid to the boundary conditions at the screen .
If we could assume that the disturbance at points of the when the incident radiation is modified by the action of the screen , differs very little from the unmodified incident disturbance , then the result and the optical rule would be in practical agreement .
The success of the optical rule seems to show that the modification of the incident radiation by the screen is unimportant , at points within the aperture , when the wave-length is short .
] The result obtained may be applied with greater certainty when the disturbance on the nearer side of the screen has been calculated in accordance with a known boundary condition , holding over all the unperforated portion .
This is the case when , instead of an incident train of waves , we have , on the nearer side , standin vibrations , for which the boundary condition is satisfied .
In such a case , the values to be assigned to the components of the disturbance , . . .
at points of the aperture , are the values that , . . .
would have if the screen unperforated .
This remark applies to the problem of the communication of vibrations from a condensing system to the aether .
We shall now take up this problem , having regard especially to the example of concentric spherical conductin surfaces , with a very thin dielectric plate between them , the outer surface being perforated by a small circular aperture .
Electrical Oscillations between Concentric Spheres .
31 .
It has been pointed out by LA that the most important modes of electrical oscillation in a condenser , with a thin dielectric plate , are those in which the charge surges over the conducting surfaces , the lines of electric force bein always normal to these surfaces , and the lines of magnetic force tangential to them .
In a condenser with concentric spherical conducting surfaces such modes of oscillation exist , whatever the thickness of the dielectric plate may be ; and the analysis requisite for dealing with them has been developed by LAMB .
The required solutions of the 'London Math. Soc. Proc vol. 26 ( 1895 ) , p. 119 .
'London Math. Soc. Proc vol. 13 ( 1882 ) , p. 51 ; or 'Hydrodynamics , ' pp. 555 , et seq. The notation here used will be that of the ' Hydrodynamics .
' It is worth while to recall some of the properties of the metions , defined in equations ( 77 ) : thsy satisfy equabions fundamental equations are included alnong those obtained in S10 , by proper choice of the function Taking the centre of the spheres as origin , let denote any spherical solid harmonic , and write , ( 77 ) , , A and being constants .
Then , in the modes of cillation under discussion , we have .
( 78 ) , ci , ( 79 ) , with similar formulae for and ; the value of and the ratio are to be found from the boundary conditions , which are that the electric force is normal to the bounding surfaces .
The vector has a radial omponent of amount . . . .
( 80 ) .
If then we form a new vector from , by resolving this radial component in the directions of the axes , and subtracting its resolved parts from , the new vector will have the same tangential components at any sphere as has ; the xcomponent of the new vector is , , and these equations are also satisfied by , and by , provided the constants A and are not to change with , Reductions made by using these equations will be introduced without remark .
EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF ELECTRIC ways .
or , what comes to the same thin , the new vector is and the condition that should be radial , at the conducting surfaces and , is that , ( nr ) . . . . . . . .
( S1 ) at ?
and .
These two equations determine the ratio and the value of When the conducting surfaces are very near together , we have approximately or , in virtue of the differential equation , satisfied by , . . . . .
( 82 ) , a result otherwise obtained by LARMOR.ae The ratio is determined by the equation , which holds for 32 .
We consider , in particular , modes of oscillation , for which the axis is an axis of symmetry .
We take , . . . . .
( 84 ) , where is the zonal surface harmonic ( LEGENDRE'S coefficient ) of order ?
7 .
We find Now it is easy to show that , ( 85 ) , 'London Math. Soc. Proc vol. 26 .
One way of doing this is as follows:\mdash ; the coefficient of in the expansion of ; also and we deduce without difficulty that , when , ( 86 ) .
Forms for could be obtained by a similar analysis ; but the values that they would take near the boundaries and can be written down immediately from the formula ( 80 ) , .
: we have , at the boundaries , . . .
( 87 ) .
When and are nearly equal , this formula holds approximately for all values of that are involved .
'33 .
The kinetic energy of the mode of oscillation here discussed can be calculated without difficulty .
We require the value of ( 88 ) .
To calculate bhe integral in this expression , we have recourse to the differential equation , . . . . .
( 89 ) , and the condition that ( 81 ) and and we also have the relation EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF ELECTRIC ways .
at both boundaries .
Taking and to be two possible values of , and and the corresponding forms of , we find ; and then , ) the usual limiting process , or \mdash ; - ( 90 ) .
When is very nearly equal to , this becomes , approximately , ( 91 ) .
After the appropriate expression ( 90 ) or ( 91 ) has been substituted in the expression ( 88 ) , the total energy , kinetic and potential , is to be obtained by suppressing the factor .
Thus , when is very nearly equal to , the total energy of the oscillating charges on the condenser is ( 92 ) .
Communication of Oscillate to Medinm .
34 .
When there is no aperture in the outer conductor , the oscillations considered in SS 31-33 would , in the absence of dissipation imperfect conduction , continue indefinitely ; but they would not produce any effect in any external electrical system .
When there is an aperture , we may take account of it by supposing that the displacements ( magnetic and electric ) , in space external to the condenser , are of the character corresponding to waves divergin from sources distributed over the only , and that the displacements within the dielectric plate of the condenser differ from those , which would be found in a normal mode of oscillation , by the superl ) osition of displacements corresponding to a system of standing waves , which are insensible except in the immediate neighbourhood of the aperture .
We may suppose the *Cf .
Lord RAYLEIGH , ' Theory of Sound , ' vol. 1 , p. 325 .
VOL. CXCVII .
\mdash ; A. A. E. H. ON THE INTEGRATIOh OF THE diverging waves , and the standing waves , thus introduced , to have the same period as the oscillationls in the normal mode ; and then the displacements corresponding to them will be determined , as in S 29 , by the conditions that the electric and netic deements must be continuous across the aperture .
As we are concerned rather with the general features of the transmission of disturbances across an aperture than with special details , we may select any normal mode of oscillation for examination .
We shall suppose the aperture to be a circle of radius , small compared with the distance between the conducting surfaces ; and we shall consider particularly modes of oscillation symmetrical about the axis of the circle , taken as axis of .
For the calculation of the energy dissipated we shall take , in the notation of S ?
, say , . . . . .
( 93 ) , where has been written for ; and we shall take , these with sufficient approximation the values obtained S 32 ; the nol.mal mode of oscillation here discussed will accordingly be one for which the axis is an axis of symmetry .
We have now to find the most important terms in , . . .
at a great distance from the aperture , the values above written bein substituted for . . . .
We shall take for the the point , from the centre of the aperture , and , whenever we wish to do so , we shall expand in the form . . . .
Now , taking , the first line of equation ( 63 ) is cf ( xx ' approximately , where the integration is taken over the area within the circle , and terms of order higher than ' have been neglected .
The most important part of this is EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF ways .
which is of order , the order when ) is great .
We treat every term exactly as this term has been treated .
second line of is of order , and is to be rejected ; the third line gives and the fourth line gives Hence the most important part of at a distance from the aperture is ?
In like manner the most important part of is and all the terms of are of a higher order than these .
The results just obtained can be written By a similar process it may be shown that the approximate forms for at a great distance from the aperture are given by the equation ct ct ( 96 ) .
We observe that the value of the magnetic force at a great distance is ct ( 97 ) , so that the factors , that contain , are the same for the electric and magnetic forces at a great distance from the aperture .
36 .
Now let , 2 ?
be the direction cosines of the normal to a closed surface drawn in a specified direction ( inwards or outwards ) ; then the rate at which nergy is transmitted across the surface , in the sense of the normal , is , by POYNTING'S Theorem , ( 98 ) .
We can , therefore , find the rate of dissipation of energy from the condenser , by forming this integral , for a sphere of large radius , , and for the functions , . . .
, the normal being drawn outwards .
If we write , for brevity , the rate of dissipation is ( 99 ) , taken over the sphere ; and the amount of energy transferred across the sphere in a period , , is given by the , . . . . .
( 100 ) , or it is which is . . . . .
( 101 ) .
Restoring the values of and , this expression becomes , ( 102 ) , where is now the order of the spherical harmonic involved in the oscillations .
When is small compared with , the fraction of the total energy , which is dissipated in one period , is obtained by dividing the expression here written by the expression ( 92 ) ; it is ; ( 103 ) ; * The cxpression shows that amounts of energy are transmitted across the hemisphere in front of the aperturc and that behind .
This arises from the circumstance that the wave-length is of the same order of magnitude as the radius of the outer conducting surface , so that the waves bend completely round that surface .
EQUATIONS OF PROPAGATION OF CTRIC WAVES .
and , at rate when is not too great , this is a very small fraction , if is large compared with , as has been supposed throughout the inyestigation .
37 .
The form of the result shows the number of vibrations of the higher modes , that are executed before the disturbance into insignificance , is much less than that of the lower ones .
The occurrence of in the denominator of ( 103 ) suggests that the principal factor in permanence of the vibrations is not the capacity of the vibrating system , but the screening action of the external conductor .
The latter point might be illustrated further by considering the example of a spherical condenser , in the case where is small compared with .
The boundary condition at the inner surface can be satisfied approximately by , in equation ( 83 ) , ; and the frequency is determined by the equation .
( 104 ) , when .
The total energy , for a mode of oscillation given by , is , ( 105 ) , and the energy dissipated in a period is ; ( 106 ) , and it is clear that the fraction of the total energy dissipated in one period is of the same order of magmtude as before , except that is substituted for the product of and .
For the mode of least frequency , and we have nearl instead of , its value when is nearly equal to ; and thus the fraction in question becomes approximately , instead of being approximately cr the rate of dissipation of energy , the spherical condenser , is less when the capacity is very small than when it is very large .
J. J. THOMSON , ' Recent cscarchcs , ' p. 373 .

