On the Integration of certain differential Expressions , with which Problems in physical Astronomy are connected , 8 &amp;c. By Robert Woodhouse , A.M. F.R.S. Fellow of Caius College .
Read April 12 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 219 .
] In the preamble to this paper the author states , that if the introduction of the new calculi , as they have been called , has extended the bound of science , it has also greatly increased its difficulties by their number and magnitude : and that whilst the differential forms , which can be completely integrated , occur only in few problems , the investigations in physical astronomy give rise to differential expressions which call forth all the resources of the analytic art , even for their approximate integration .
The main object of this paper is to give a method of computing the integrals of certain expressions which lead to the determination of the logarithms of numbers , and the lengths of circular arcs .
In treating of one of these expressions , known by the name of Fagnaini 's Theorem , the author traces out the correspondence between the methods of computation , and the proportion of geometrical figures ; the analytical method , by which the integral expressing the arc of a circle is computed , affording , when duly translated , the theorem for the tangent of the sum of the two arcs expressed in terms of the tangents of the arcs .
It is in vain to .
attempt , without the use of symbols , to convey any adequate , nay , even a faint idea of the various series , converging and diverging according to the value of one of the coefficients of the original expression , which lead to the conclusions that illustrate this mode of investigation .
Suffice it to say , that among other uses , the method may be applied to expand the formula that occurs in estimating the perturbation of planets : and in this instance the author points out the series which would be most commodious , and which would converge most rapidly if the radii of the orbits of the two planets , whose perturbations are sought , were nearly equal .

