]\gt ; IV .
" " On the lJotion under Gravity of Fluid Bubbles through Vertical Columns of Liquid of a different Density By .
T. TROUTON .
Communicated by Profcssor FITZGERALD , F.R.S. Received May 3 , 1893 .
The kind of motion herein referred to can be observed by means simply of a glass tube , closed at one end , and provided with a stopper .
If the tube be filled with water to nearly the top , closed , and then placed upside down , the ellclosed bubble of air while ascending to the top can be observed , and the speed of ascent ascertained between two measured marks .
By enclosing different volumes of air it was found that the speed depended on the length of the bubble .
The elation connecting the volume of the bubble with its speed of ascent was experimentally vestigated .
The speed , as will be seen from experiments subsequently described , may be taken within limits as a periodic function of the volume of the bubble .
Bubbles greater than a cel.tain thing all have the same velocity .
Experiments have also been made with othel liqnids .
By lnixing liquids , such as watel and , a sel.ies of of speed with liquids of increasing viscosity can bc made .
Tn these experiments the size of the bubble outside the iodic limit .
Contrary to expectation it was found that as the viscosity of water was increased by instead of diminished .
With tubes of bout 0 cm .
in diameter , it is not until the viscosity of the used is about times that of water that the velocity comes to less than that pure water .
From this state the velocify was found to be proportional tloe the solution , other things the same .
Instead of air the bubl ) may be of some liquid which does not too readily mix with that of which the columll consists .
this experiments made to the betwccll the speed of ascent and difference in density of the liquids , and als } ether surface tension may lave any luence .
The consideration of the subject then ienbly b into two parts .
The first will deal with the dependence of speed with the bubble travels ough the liquid column 011 the physical ties of the two fluids in the phenomenon .
The second part will efer to the connexion between the size 01 volumc of the bubbIe and its speed .
Gravit of Fluid Liqnids .
The physical properties involved in the phenomenon may , perhaps .
be best stndied by taking a particular case , say that of a bubble of chloroform through a columll of glycerine contained in a glass tube .
as shown in section in the figure .
In order that the bubble descend , the liquid in front up sidcs the spaoe veen ubble a the the dinmctcl of the bubble known , the question old red cc itsclf to a case of cotlS flow nllular sleglccted t nnd stlpposed the the bubble to bc .
The width will be seelt to depen on the surface tension between the liquids , for should the tension becomc very reat , , the bubble must swell out , .
up tube .
tendency is in part balanced by the excess in of the bubble over of the liquid column .
The case is , so Olto'Rpc.akificc , then that of viscous flow ough an adjustable annular pressure per , or the iving np liquid this annular space , depends simply on the in nsity of the liquids .
* of the bubble always eral ) its nctcr , as to the the clocity depcllds ou tl1c of bubble . .
T. Tlonton .
On the Jfotion [ June 1 , The surface of the bubble moves by no means in a rigid manner , as can be seen by watching the movements of ] particles of dust which may be present .
The liquid of the bubble is seen in ( jonstant circulation up the side with the current of glycerine , and returning down the centre of the bubble .
Thus the viscosity of the liquid of which the bubble is composed must affect the velocity of its descent , but in what follows it has been lected ; this could be done , because he viscosity of the liquid of the column in most of the experiments was very great compared with ] that of the bubble .
the various on which the velocity may depend , we , the pressure gradient , that is to say , the difference in density of the two liquids multiplied by the acceleration of gravity , the viscosity of the liquids , the surface tension between the liquids , the diameter of the tube D. It is difficulb to see that anything else could come in to affect the rate of flow unless it bs slipping over the solid surface .
Thus we put .
Assuming the function to have the we can obtain hree etions from the considerations of dimensiollS to help determine tlJe u exponents .
length , From mass , From time , Now if we pose y , as may veYy well be done , seeing that the flow is of a purely viscous nature , we are left with but one unknown , on account of rities in the coefficients .
Thus .
Since the velocity ses with differencc in density of the we give the succesve values -1 , -2 , , \amp ; c. , and obtnill the velocity expressed in a series .
As there are two coefficients of viscosity to be taken into account , the series should properly be of the form form of the scries reprcsents the , instcad of the velocity ilselfbecausc it so ppened the constants so ] would involvo } ] .
over dimcnsions of , of , of , and of of .
15 But in most of the experiments viscosity of the Iiquid of which the column was composed was so much reater t that of the bubble that the ving form proved sufficiently accul'ate:\mdash ; The value of these constant coefficients could be experimentally found by a series of determinations of velocity different ized tubes , the two substances used throughout .
Taking only three terms of the series , I have dene this for the case of air ) bless asccnding through colnmns of glycerine of different di , and I find that the constants determined are pracbically the sarle as those required by my experiments with other substances .
Thus three would appear to be ample .
In the table is exhibited the time by a bubble of to ascend 1 cm .
( reciprocal of the velocity ) a column of glyceline , the diameter of which is given in the top row .
The row was calculated by using the valucs of the constants olow , hich were themselves the second row by the lnethod of squarcs .
; ; The differencc in dellsity was , and the sul'face tension 63 per centimetre .
was that of the air , and nged bveen and .
For some sized tubes the reement between the observed and the number calculated is not , but this is duc to variations in tcmperat .
The viscosity of apidly with temperature .
The importance of constant not apprcciated until most of the experiments made had been coml)lcted .
Have once determined the constant coefficionts , it becomes possible to calculate the velocity of a bubble of any substance a tubo of glycerine of vetl diameter .
The only now Mr. F. T. On the Motion under [ June 1 , for doing this are the difference in density of the bubble and its surface tension .
An examination of the following bles will , I think , justify this assumption .
In Table II are exhibited the values of the " " velocity reciprocal\ldquo ; ated for chloroform in this way .
That is to say , the ascertained values of the surface tension between and glycerine and of the difference of their densities were simply introduced into the expression we above obtained for the velocity .
In the third row for comparison is given the time taken per centimetre found by actual experiment .
II .
In the two tables the same is ivcll for creasote and mercury .
Table Il Glyccl i inc .
facility of comparison , the selected from the , with the addit:on of ono other , ill the case of two sized tubcs of and respectively .
1893 .
] Gravity of Fluid Bubbles Liquids .
The agreement with theory is remarkal ) , considering the great range introduced into the experimsnts .
The density difference and the surface tension vary between themselves nearly 100 times .
In the accompanying diagram are plotted the various forms the equation takes on putting in the values of the physical constants proper to each body .
The abscissae represent the diameter of the tube in millimetres , and the ordinates the time calculated to be taken by the bubble in travelling 1 cm .
The times found by experiment giveu in the above tables are marked so far as the limits of paper would aIlow for the purpose of comparison .
The case of creasote is instructive .
With wide tubes the bubble moves comparatively slowly .
For when the diametel is large , the first term in the is most important , so that the density is then the controlling factor .
But when is small , the third term is most important , so that if the surface tension is very small , as is so in the case of creasote , the bubble will move comparatively quickly .
In such case the bubble assumes a long , almost needle-like appearance , giving ample room round it for the flow past of t'ne liquid of the column .
In the case of chloroform , for instance , this long form is not assumed because of the higher value of the surface tension .
The following table exhibits , in the case of several substances , the of the bubble in motion elatively to its at , when , of course , it occupies the wholo width of the tube .
diameter of tube Table IercurJ 1.8 Air . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12 Oil of lernons . . . . . .
Chloroform . . . . . . .
Crcasote VOL. LIV .
8Mr .
F. .
Trouton .
On Motion under [ June 1 , Besides the oing , expeI'iments were also made in viscosity of the liquid through bubble passed changed in order to experimentally verify that the velocity the viscosity in agreement with the theory .
For this pose the viscosity of glycerine was reduced by the addition of water , and the " " time of descent\ldquo ; of a oform bubble through a tube of the tion observed .
This could be compal.ed with that calcuIated from the theory by introducing the value of the viscosity ascertained in each case .
1893 .
] .
Fluid throngh Liquids .
In the following table are shown the observed and calculated " " times\ldquo ; in the case of two sized tubes .
The first column gives the approximate percentage composit ) of each tion , with glycerine and ending with pure water .
The fourth consists of the ascertained viscosity in terms of that of water .
Columns 5 and 6 are the calculated and observed " " times of descent\ldquo ; respectively for a tube of diameter 0 .
Columns 7 and 8 are the like a tube of diameter .
Temperature between Table .\mdash ; Chloroform\mdash ; Solutions of Glycerine and Water .
It will be seen from this table that within certain limits we are justified in assuming tlJe velocity to be inversely as the viscosity , but there is a complete failure in the applicability of the law in cases here the viscosity is small .
The retardation observed in such cases is doubtless due to the formation of eddying motions in the fluid , and , indeed , if any small motes which happen to be present be watched , considerable commotions are always to be seen as the bubble passes whenever there is this retardation .
The retardation is even more marked in the case of air bubbles , as will be seen from the table , not only are the observed values greater than tlJe calculated values , but they are actually greater than values observed with greater viscosities , i. e. , than those given igher up the list .
Diameter of tube This retardation is better shown in , which is plotted from a number of cal'eful obsertations .
The maximum velocity with ( his sized tube esponds to about 33 per cent. of ] ycerine , the elocity of which is about three times that of water at the temperaof the experiments .
The abscissae represent the percent comOhition of the solutions , beginning on the left with glycerine .
ordinates are the corresponding velocities .
values of surface tcnsion pl.inted iu italics lvere interpolated .
Mr. F. T. Trouton .
On the Motion under [ June 1 , LE VIII.\mdash ; Air\mdash ; Solutions of Glycerine and Water .
It is of interest , as pointed out by Lord Kelvin , consider the increase in velocity accompanying increase in viscosity here exhibited in the light of Professor Osborne Reynolds ' 'Critical Velocity .
' As will be remembered , the ' Critical Velocity , ' or the velocity of flow of a fluid just unaccompanied by eddying motions , rises in value rise in the value of the viscosity .
On the diagram , an hypothetical line to indicate the " " velocity\ldquo ; for the bubble has been drawn .
( That is to say , the velocity of the bubble which is accompanied by critical velocity of flow of the fluid past it .
) All calculated values of the velocity below this line will stand .
Above this line the observed veJocity will lie between it and the line given by the calculation .
The form of the curve was found to be the same with solutions in water of sugar , of calcium chloride , or of sodium hydrate .
The actual turning down of the curve of velocities at small values of the viscosity , as occurs in these cases , would be a matter of the rate of departure from each other of the critical velocity curve and that calculated from the theory of viscous flow , which latter , it must be remembered , depends on the surface tension and density as weJl as on the viscosity .
These quantities probably have an important bearing in particular question .
By employing , say , gum tragacanth , one can increase the viscosity of water without sensible change in density .
Thus , in this espect the iving power is not simultaneously increased as is case when crease in viscosity is produced by addition of glycerine .
With gum tragacanth the never actually increases on increase of viscosity as in the case of glycerine .
But through a considerable range in viscosity on the right-hand side of the ' the course of a discussion on a note read before the British Association in Edinburgh , 1892 .
The surface tension of these solutions changes in about the same relative ratio to the viscosiby as solutions of glycerine in water do .
Gravity of Fluid Bubbles through 21 .
the velocity curve runs almost horizontal , showing clearly that the phenomenon of turbulency is present .
Similar cnrves to that for gum tragacanth were found on employing starch or gelatine to increase the viscosity of water .
The case of soap is remarkable .
A very slight addition of soap to water prodnces quits a sensible increase in the velocity of the bubble .
The first row in IX gives the perccntage present of a certain soap solution in mixture with water .
Beneath is the velocity of the air bubble in each case .
Diameter of tube was Table \mdash ; Velocity through Soap It so happens that at first on addition of soap a diminution of viscosity does occur ; nevertheless the chief cause in the increase in Mr. F. T. Trouton .
On under [ June 1 , velocity is probably due to the great diminution of the surface tension , which for the 5 per cent. solution was less than half that of water .
In connexion with this , as it probably depends on the formation of soap , must be mentioned a rather pretty experiment , which is easily made .
A bubble of sweet oil if allowed to ascend a tube ( say , of diameter ) of ordinary pure water passes up in the ordinary way .
But , if the tube contains a weak solution of caustic soda , as the bubble ascends , the motion of the solution over the surface of the oil raises a series of circular waves ronnd ths cylindrical bubble , or , rather , a series of surface tension ripples .
The waves almost invariably join at once to form one continuous spiral wave round the bubble , which then lends a surprisingly life-like appearance to the bubble as it wriggles its way upwards through the tube .
* The system of circular waves is evidently unstable , since the formation of the spiral means the opening of a continuous channel for the flow past of the solution .
The of the spiral ( right-or left-handed ) depends on initial circumstances , and can , when the tube is held in the hand , be con- ditioned at will by a judicious turn of the wrist .
The solution must be very weak , best about 1 part of strong causbic soda in 50,000 parts water ; much stronger than this } too great a tendency to emulsify the oil , doubtless itself a pbenome1lon in part arising from diminution in surface tension on the more exposed parts of the oil .
When the liquid of which the coIumn is composed is very viscous , the system of waves is prevented from forming , as is the case with a creasote bubble passing through glycerine , despite the fact of the surface tension being so very small .
At first sight it might appeal ' that the ascent of ) bless through tubes of different liquids would prove a convenient method for comparing their viscosities .
As has been seen , it is necessary , among other , to know the sulface tension in each case .
This renders the comparison of viscosity in this really a 1nore troublesome process than by ordiua17 methods , since the detel.mination of surface tension , cspecially if the liqnids be viscous , is often accompanied by considerable uncertainty , owing to a persistent tendency to stick to frequently exhibited .
is particularly so in finding the surface tension }veen two liquids .
The phenomenon , however , wouId appear to be suited for the compal'ison of the surface tension betweell liquids .
If the same liquid constitute the columu in each case , it need nob be necessary to its viscosity , only the density being requisite .
*On inolining tube , smaller sized tubes , the bubble is seen to have quite a caterpillar mode of p.g.ession .
1893 .
] ravity of Fluid Bubbles throngh Liquids .
In this way the surface tension between two liquids , even they dissolve each other in all proportiollS , may be measured .
Thus , a bubble of water can be got to ascend a tube of glycerine , preserving for a considerable distance its perfectly distinct shape .
In fashion I have found dynes per cent. for the initial value of the face tellsion between water amd glycerine .
The velocity of the bubblo apidly increases as it proceeds , owing to the surface tension dimiuishing as gycerine dissolves in the water .
The continuous replacement of one of the liquids in the method gives it an advantage for such a pose as this over any statical method .
The quantity discussed in all likelihood prove to be related to molecular rates of diffusion , and perhaps should for this eason merit consideration .
An impol.tant point , which up to this has llot been touched upon , is the necessity for the liquid of which the bubble is composed not to adhere so tenaciously to the walls of the tube as to cause the bubble to retain the shape in fig. 2 section .
This cannot ppen w tlIc resolved component ] to the axis of the tubc of the te1lsion of the Hurface between the liquids the tension at the surface of separation of the bubble and tube exceeds between the second liquid and tube .
Even this be not the case , the bubble }will often assume the shape with convex ends suitable for throuo h the tube .
With every substance , as the diameter of coluum is reduced , stage is reached when there is a tendency to stick even though the elld be couvex .
This limit is found to depend largely on the surface tension ; with values of surface tension it is S001I reached .
instance , ubble of mercury sticks hopelessly in a tube of glycerine of diamctel , while creasote travels frecly , the ) ressure ( it is 62 times less .
Now the lrface t in case of is 180 times that of the crcasote used } No quantitative minations havo been made on the remaining On the Moho of Fluid Bubbles through Liquids .
[ June 1 .
experimentally mnverified factor in our expression for the velocity of the bubble .
That is to say to verify the terms under the acceleration ( g ) appears in the expression .
This , were it desirable , might of course be investigated by an arrangement utilising oentrifugal force , but without elaborate arrangements it is not difficult to observe the great influence increase in pressure produced by swinging a tube round and round by hand has .
To take an example , bubble of creasote in a tube of glycerine of diameter takes over 13 hours to travel 1 .
By swinging it round and round in the hand , one can get it through in less than as many minutes .
In connection with this the comparative ease with which a stray liquid bubble in the tube of a thermometer can bs brought home by swinging in the hand will suggest itself .
PART II .
When the length of the bubble is less than a certain thing , the velocity is found to be very different for ferent sized bubbles .
The result of some experiments made with different sized bubbles of air passed up through a tube of water of diameter is exhibited in Diagram III .
The ordinates represent the velocity and the abscissae the volume of the bubble measured in terms of the length of tube it occupies when at rest .
Thelength of the bubble in motion is always of course greater than this .
It will be seen that the velocity corresponding to a volume of about 7 is nearly double that at about .
The phenomenon is , doubtless , 1893 .
] Preset due to the form taken by the bble .
The figures on the roughly represent the appearance of the bubble corresponding to the differenb points where they are placed .
The small bubble on the left passes up rapidly .
As larger volumes of air are taken to form the bubble the velocity falls to a minimum , at which point the bnbble is almost spherical in shape .
With further additions of air , the spherical form gives way to one pointed at top .
Again more air swells out the top and gives the bubble a somewhat dumb-bell appearance .
For this and the spherical form the velocity is a minimum .
In these instances the ratio of the resistance of the annular channel to the flow-past of the liquid compared to the driving pressure is a maximum .
The intermediate shape being pointed at top gains an increased pressure head without a corresponding increase in resistance .
The various forms assumed by the bubbles remind one of the well-known initial shapes taken on the formation of liquid drops .
Similar curves were obtained with other sized tubes , the phenomenon being rather more marked in the case of the smaller sizes .
Other liquids were found to behave in a like way when used either as the substance of the column or for constituting the bubble itself .
The curve in the diagram exhibits the general behaviour of the bubbles , but occasionally an anomalous determination of velocity will be obtained ; this is accompanied by the bubble having also an anomalous form .
That is to say , a volume of air a little in excess of that corresponding to the spherical stage , instead of assuming a pointed form at top , will retain a spherical form , and as a consequence travel very slowly . .
" " On the Metallurgy of Lead By J. B. HANNAY , F.R.S.E. , F.I.C. Communicated by Sir G. G. STOKES , F.R.S. Received April 15 , 1893 .
[ Publication deferred .
] Presents , June 1 , 1893 .
Transactions .
Boston:\mdash ; American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
Proceedings .
Vol. .
Boston 1893 .
The Academy .
Brunn:\mdash ; Naturforschender Verein .
Bericht der Meteorologischen Commission .
No. 10 . .
Brunn 1892 .
The Society .
Essex Field Club : Essex Naturalist .
Vol. .
Nos. 1\mdash ; 3 . .
Buckhurst Hill 1893 .
The Club .

