1894 .
] Measurement of the Magnetic Properties of Iron .
49 an irregular system of moving molecules ( or a " disturbed gas " ) is unaltered in form by collisions between the molecules .
In the second application the functions are used to find the mutual potential energy of two layers of gravitating matter on two spheres , the density at any point on each sphere being expressed in terms of spherical harmonics referred to fixed coordinates upon it , and the spheres having apposition with reference to the fine joining their centres .
The case of two ellipsoids not differing much from spheres is also worked out numerically , and the stable positions discussed .
A stable orbit is possible with the major axes of the ellipsoids constantly in a straight line .
If one ellipsoid is fixed and the other projected so as to describe a nearly circular orbit about it , with its major axis initially pointing to the centre of the other , the orbit will be possible if in a plane perpendicular to the least axis of the greater , but the deviation of the major axis of the second from the line of centres will contain a term which to the first approximation is secular , and may ultimately cause this axis to deviate from its initial position .
There are three stable positions for the second ellipsoid if the first ellipsoid is fixed and the centre of the other fixed .
These positions will in general be with the major axis of the second pointing towards the centre of the first , and in a line with the major , mean , and least axes of the first , but if c , the distance between the centres , is so small that o ?
' 7 5 \ 2 , ^ / 12 7 5 \ " ortian -s ?
h* where axa/ a/ ' are the least , mean , and greatest axes of the first sphere , the stable positions will be different .
Thus the stable positions will always be with major axis of the second in the line of centres if c2/ ax2 is greater than 7/ 5 .
The " functions of the second kind , " which are the two remaining solutions of the differential equation of the fourth order satisfied by umrvmr , are also briefly investigated .
IV .
" On the Measurement of the Magnetic Properties of Iron .
" By Thomas Gray , B.Sc. , E.R.S.E. , Professor of Dynamic Engineering , The Rose Polytechnic Institute , Terre Haute , Indiana .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , P.R.S. Received April 6 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) This paper gives the results of a continuation of the investigation which formed the subject of a paper communicated to the Royal Society in 1892 , and published in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' VOL. LVI .
E 50 Measurement of the Magnetic Properties of Iron .
[ May 24 , vol. 184 , A , pp. 531\#151 ; 542 .
The results now given have been to a large extent obtained by the same method , namely , from the curves giving the relation of the current flowing in the circuit to the time measured from the application or the reversal of the impressed E.M.F. on the circuit .
In this case , however , the personal element has been eliminated from the curves by the application of the autographic recorder referred to as under construction in the previous paper .
This apparatus , which is a modification of the " Thomson siphon-recorder , " has been found to work satisfactorily , and has considerably increased the ease and the accuracy with which the curves can be produced .
A description of the apparatus and specimens of the curves drawn by it are included in the paper .
There is also included in this paper a description of the apparatus and method of experiment in the application of a wattmeter to the determination of the energy dissipated by transformers under E.M.F. 's of different frequency of alternation .
The accuracy of the measurements so made were checked by comparison with the results of measurements made by Joubert 's instantaneous contact method .
The apparatus and method of experiment adopted for the application of this method were to some extent different from those commonly employed , and they are therefore described .
The results of some further experiments on the large electromagnet used in the previous experiments , and described in the paper above referred to , are given , but a large part of the results quoted in this paper refer to closed circuit transformers of the types manufactured by the Westinghouse and the General Electric Companies .
The experiments have been chiefly directed to the following points:\#151 ; 1 .
A Comparison of the Total Energy required to produce Different Magnetic Inductions , and the Corresponding Dissipation Energy.\#151 ; In connection with this , the effect of air gap in the magnetic circuit has been investigated somewhat more fully .
It is shown that , by introducing a moderate air gap , the energy dissipated for a given induction through the coils may be reduced one-third .
2 .
The Daw of Variation of Hysteresis with Variation of Induction.\#151 ; The experiments indicate that , although for any special case the energy dissipated can be approximately expressed by an equation of the form E = ABa , that both A and a are different for different kinds of iron .
It seems probable , also , from the results obtained , that a is not absolutely constant for any one iron , but that i't increases with increase of B. 3 .
The Effect of Increased Frequency of Cyclic Variation of Magnetism on the Dissipation of Energy.\#151 ; In this investigation a transformer , the iron case of which was made up of very thin sheets , was used .
The thickness of the sheets was about 16-100thS of a millimetre , and the sheets were insulated from each other by means of thin 1894 .
] Influence of certain Agents on the Tubercle-Bacillus .
51 paper .
The fall load capacity of the transformer was about 6,000 watts .
The range of frequency ( including the autographic recorder , the wattmeter and the Joubert 's instantaneous contact method experiments ) was about from 3 per minute to 8,000 per minute .
The results indicated that , throughout this range , there is no variation in the dissipation of energy per cycle when the inductions are equal .
Data deduced from these experiments as to the magnetic qualities of the iron used in the different transformers are given in the paper .
V. " On the Influence of certain Natural Agents on the Virulence of the Tubercle-Bacillus .
" By Arthur Ransom , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Sheridan Delepine .
Received May 1 , 1894 .
Three years ago Dr. Ransom communicated to the Society the results of some experiments , carried out in concert with Professor Dreschfeld , of Owens College , " On certain conditions that modify the virulence of the bacillus of tubercle .
" The tendency of these researches was to prove " that fresh air and light , and a dry and sandy sub-soil , have a distinct influence in arresting the virulence of the tubercle-bacillus ; that darkness somewhat interferes with this disinfectant action ; but that mere exposure to light , in otherwise bad sanitary conditions , does not destroy the virus .
" The following table gives the results of similar experiments by ourselves .
Experi- meant No. 3 .
i. 7 .
2 .
8 .
3 .
11 .
4 .
12 .
5 .
58 .
6 .
59 .
7 .
Table I. Rabbit inoculated in peritoneum with fresh sputum .
Killed 55 days after .
Showed well-marked tuberculosis .
Rabbit .
Sputum exposed to light and air 45 days in June and July .
Showed no tuberculosis after 86 days .
Rabbit .
Sputum exposed in air-shaft in dusk at the same time .
Showed slight tuberculosis after 86 days .
G-uinea-pig .
The same sputum exposed at the same time , in air and light , inoculated under the skin .
Showed no distinct tubercle in 80 days .
Guinea-pig .
Same methods , only in dusk .
Showed advanced tuberculosis in 80 days .
Guinea-pig .
Another sputum exposed in April for 16 days to little or no air , in darkness .
Gave well-marked tubercle after 42 days .
Guinea-pig .
Ditto , ditto .
E 2

