]\gt ; Mr. G. M. Whipple on Temperature-correction [ May II .
On the Tempelature-correction and Inducon-coefficit of Magnets.\ldquo ; By G. M. B.Sc. , Superintendent 01 Kew Observatory .
Communicated by ROBERT H. F.R.S. Received April 12 , 1877 .
It has been the practice at the Kew Observatory since 1856 to deter .
min , for the use of persons about to make observations upon terrestria ] magnetism , the various constants of the magnets and instruments with which they intend to observe ; and a considerable number of these constants are now recorded in the books of the Having been frequently applied to for information respecting the constants of magnets and the method of deermining them , I have extracted from our registers the values of the two Inost important constants , viz. that of the riation of the power of the magnet under changes of temperature , and that showing the effect of the inductive action of the earth upon the magnets , as found by experiment .
The results are given in the following paper .
The magnets experimented upon may be classed under six heads ( approximate dimensions ) .
Solid cylinders , inches long , inch diameter . .
Hollow cylinders ( collimators ) , inches long , inch internal diameter . .
Parallelopipeds ( bars ) , inches long , inch wide , inch thick .
plates ( dip-needles ) , inches long , iuch thick . .
Thin cylinders ( enclosed in brass tubes , deflectors ) , inches long , inch diameter .
Various .
All of the magnets were made of the best steel , and rendered as hard as possible befors tion , which operation has been in every case carried to satnration .
The method employed in determining the temperature-coefficient is as follows : magnet being firmly fixed in a water-tight wooden box , provided with a thermometer , is placed upon a frame in such a manner that its axis shall lie in the same horizonffi plane with the needle of a unifilar magnetometer , at a short distance away , and adjusted until the axes of the two needles are approximately at right angles to each other , the position of the deflecting magnet being that which is designated by the Astronomer Royal as end on .
Warm ater at F. is then poured into the box , and as soon as the magnet has become heated to this temperature the unifilar magnet is brought to rest and its position at ; curately read off .
The water at F. is then removed , and the appa ratus being cooled down to water of that temperature is placed iri the box ; another observation of deflection is then made , and finally and Induction-coefficients of Magnets .
219 he experiment is repeated with water at F. After this another series obssrvations is with water at F. , F. , and F. , this is again repeated once or twice .
The observations are first corrected for changes of the earth 's magnetic :orce during the experiment by means of simultttneous readings of the given by the self-recording tometers of the Observatory ; md the reduction is performed according to the method given by the following mula , due to Prof. B. Stewart , the coefficients determined Jeing and , which represent the decrease of the magnetic moment of gnet produced by an increase of temperature of 1o F. Demonstration of the Formula forfinding Temperatnrjction .
Let be the normal equation of equilibrium at temp. then ( u-du ) is the equation .
Hence ; .
Let ; then .
Demonstration of the of using the -recording in linating the of in } correction .
( 1 ) Let the Horizontal Force alter ; let be the normal equation , and the altered one .
Hence ; hence fan ( 2 ) Let the Declination alter ; the equation is still ; hence the angle of deflection remains the same , or the deflected magnet makes the same angular change as the declination netograph .
Of the temperature-coefficients of 109 magnets have been examined , the value of has only besn determined for 79 .
the whole series we find the ving :\mdash ; Mr. G. M. Whipple on Temperature-correction 77 .
] and Induction-coefficients of Magnets .
Incluction-cocffrcients .
The induction-coefficient is determined from observations of deflecion after the method of Lamont , the magnet ernately placed with its north pole upwards and , but at he same distance from a suspended needle , the difference in the amount deflection of the ttel .
in the positions ing the effect of 'he earth 's inductive action upon the The , differing slightly from Lamont 's , employed in the reducion , and of which the is a demonstration , is due to the Mr. John Welsh , F.R.S. :\mdash ; ( 1 ) It is assumed that the induction by the inducing iLction the eRrth 's magnetic force is distributed in the same manner throughout bhe bar experimented upon as its permanent magnetism .
Let increase of the monlent of the produced by the action of an indncing forceunity .
netic moment of the permanent of the bar .
horizontal component of the earth 's force .
vertical component of the earth 's force .
angle of deflection , north end bar angle of deflection , north end upwards .
of deflectiolllvhell the rdillarv de ilccfor at 1 foot distance .
gnetic dip .
( 2 ) If be a constant , { ) the netic moment of the lspellded may be taken to ) the tiou of the bttr ( disrem 222 Mr. A. Tribe on the Distribution of [ May$ garding lced magnetism ) upon the suspended needle ; then , as the lin join the centres of the two magnets is in every part of the observatio approximately at right angles to the suspended needle , it follows from ( 1 ) that the attraction of the bar will be proportional to its magnetisn Hence in the north end downwards the equation of equilibrium will be and with the north end upwards Hence Hence ; and since S \mdash ; ' tam From the values of observations made at the 0bservatory with magnets , all belonging to sses A , we find\mdash ; Average difference III .
' Distribution of the Radicals of ectrolytes upon an Insulated Metallic Conductor .
By ALFRED , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Communicated by Dr. GLADSTONE , F.R.S. Received April 19 , 1877 .
Among other facts demonstrated in my communication to the Royal Society in Jannary 1876 ( Proc. Boy .
Soc. vol. xxiv .
p. 308 ) , it was shown that a rigid conductor , when placed lengthwise veen the electrodes in a fluid in the act of electrolysis , becomes , lvith sufficient battery-power , endowed with the power of doing vork similar in kind to the battery-electrodes themselves .
This phenomenon , it was contended , explicable on the view which regards an electrolyte as a ] ectric , with the additional metion of being capable of mutually exchaIlging its constituents in the act of depolarization\mdash ; a conception which induced the quantitative experiments ] below .

