]\gt ; X. " " The Differenial iants of Twisted Curves , with some Illustrations of the to Quartic Curves By R. F. GWYTHER , , Fielden Lecturel .
in Mathematics , Owens College , Manchester .
Commumcated by Professor HORACE LAMB , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the earlier parts othis paper is to obtain relations Halphen*calls the canonical iants of the curve , without the intervention of what are called by him the fundamental invariants .
In any geometrical investigation it is the canonical invariants which presenb themselves , and the relations between the consecutive canonical invariants , and the values of their differential coefficients must , if the method of investigation is to be used , be expressed , in terms of canonical invariants only , without the intervention of the other series of invariants which Halphen treats as fundamental .
In the paper , the notation of Halphen 's paper above is generally followed , but the mode of initial investigation , as in a previous paper on covariants of plane curves , is made to depend upon a homographic tl'ansformation with infinitesimal arguments .
Writing for the coordinates of a current point , for the coordinates of a point on a standard curve , and and for !
and !
, the arguments of a covariant function are shown to be with ) while is an invariant ich will not appea independently .
other conditions that a function may be covariallt nction are ( 1 ) that it shall bc isobaric , counting , , Sir les Differcntiels des Courbes uches , \ldquo ; ' de l'Ecolo mqnc , dlier 4 , vol. 28 , ' vol. ( A ) , , p. 1171 .
of Twisted Curves , \amp ; c. and of the , -2 , , and respectively , and ( 2 ) that , if be the algebraic degree of the function , then ; - . . . .
; ; ; These equations are then used to find the forms of the earlier invariants , and to show that there are only i'our independent which may be written VOL. LYI .
Mr. B. F. Gwyther .
Differential [ June where The planes , whose equations are , form a tetrahedron , which will be called the canonical tetrahedron of reference at any point on the curve , and we put the coefficients of the expansions of and in terms of are the canonical invariants .
We write these expansions . . . .
, and since we see that with respect to the canonical axes , To obtain the esult of a canonical invariant , we must begin with a general change of axes , and after diiferentiation suppose that these are canonical axes , and put \amp ; c. , , as bove .
For this purpose , I show that if denote any homographic mation , we shall have \amp ; c. 1894 .
] Covariants of Twisted where contains squares and products of \amp ; c. , where and have a ance similar to that of nd In the earlier part of the paper I have shown that , if , where tlJe coefficients are small , and therefore we can detel'mine the functions and , and and similarly If we now choose new axes to be the canonical axes , shall have , at the origin . . . .
, Differential Covariants of Twisted Curves , ) We can now write down the leading terms in the expansions of and , and we can differentiate the expressions , remembering that after difforentiation we put , \amp ; c. All the expressions , \amp ; c. , vanish if not differentiated , and all the contained in vanishes after diiferentiation as vrell .
We have then only to consider that part of the coefficient of I , , \amp ; c. , which does not vanish .
Writing this , \amp ; c. , we get and if stands for the iantive part of the differential coefficient of the only part when referred to the canonical axes , have . . . . . . . .
shows ) mode by which the general values of these differlial coefficients are found .
The mode by hich the sel.ies of c.anonical invariants can be ] determined follows , alJd the elaoionS connecbing the canonical invariants of a curve with those of 1894 .
] Solutions of eous Diferential ations .
a reciprocal curve are then obtained , but the line of proof cannot be included in this abstract .
In the latter part of the , the differential equations of adric curve are integrated to obtain the absolute invariant of the curve , and the conditions to be satisfied by the four excnboquartics having closest contact with a curve at a point are found .
The equations to a quadiqadric curve referred to the canonical axes at a of the curve , are These represent two out of the amily of quadrics which contain the quadriquadric ; the quadric represented by is that touches at the origin the osculating plane to the qua ( hiquadric at origin .
If we call the fourth point , at which that osculating plane meets { he curve , the tangential of the origin , the quadric represented by is that dric of the family which touches , the tangential , the osculating plalle at the tangential .
These two quadrics are called the canonical quadrics at the point .
and it is shown how to find the equations to the canonical adrics at any point and how to express the canonical invariants at any point ill terms of those at the origin .
The relations between the invariants at a point and its taDgential are found , and lead to the discussion of singular points indicated by and XI .
" " On the of Simultaneous Ordin ary Differential tions and Theory of Congruencies .
By A. C. DIXON , M.A. , Fellow of College , Cambridge , Professor of lIathematics in QueeIl'S icated by .
L. GLAISHER , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received June 7 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) S 1 .
This paper is an attempt to show how the singular of simultaneous ordinary differential equations are to be either a complete primitive from the diflerential equations .
The question has been treated by ayer ( ' .
Ann vol. 22 , in a somewhat different way , but with the result .
He also gives a eference to a paper in Polish by ski ( summarised in vol. of the 'Jahrbuch dcr ittc d Mathematik and to one by in ] .
of ' Liouville 's Journal .
'

