XIV .
" On the Action of Hydriodic Acid upon Mannite .
" By J. A. WANKLYN , Esq. , and Dr. EERLENMEYEr .
Communicated by Dr. FRANKLAND .
Received October 24 , 1861 .
Mannite may be regarded as a six-atomic alcohol , or better as hydride of hexyl , in which six atoms of hydrogen are replaced by six atoms of peroxide of hydrogen .
Mannite= Co H. ( HO ) .
2 K This formula is established by the reaction between mannite and hydriodic acid .
When the two bodies are heated together iodine is evolved , and a heavy oily liquid distils .
This liquid is iodide of hexyl .
By using a sufficient excess of hydriodic acid-8 grms. of manxite to 100 cubic centimetres of strong acid boiling at 125 ?
C. and by transmitting carbonic acid through the hot liquid , so as to remove the oily product as rapidly as possible from contact with hot iodine , a quantity of iodide of hexyl , approximating closely to that required by the following equation , may be obtained : Mannite .
Iodide of Hexyl .
o H8 ( HO)6+ 11=CHI 1--1 , I +6H2 0+ 1o .
From 96 grms. of mannite we have obtained 83 grms. of very nearly pure iodide of hexyl .
The equation requires 182 grms. mannite to 212 grms. iodide of hexyl .
The identity of our product with iodide of hexyl was shown by its analysis , and by the following reactions : Digested with water and oxide of silver , it yields an oily liquid lighter than water , differing completely in smell from amylic alcohol , and having the composition of hexylic alcohol .
Its analysis gave carbon 70 21 per cent. , and hydrogen 13'84 .
The calculated numbers for hexylic alcohol areCarbon ... ..7059 , Hydrogen. .
13-73 , which agree completely with our result .
When caustic potash and common alcohol are employed instead of oxide of silver with water , a different result occurs ; the iodide splits up into hexylene and hydriodic acid , which latter reacts upon the potash .
iHexylene prepared by this process is an oily liquid , lighter than water , of very penetrating odour , and boiling at about 68 ?
C. Its constitution was proved on the one hand by its analysis and vapourdensity , and on the other by its deportment with bromine , upon which it reacts with extreme violence , combining without evolution of HBr , and yielding a heavy liquid , whose composition , ascertained by analysis , is oC H , , Br , .
We defer the further description of our compounds , as it is our intention to make an extended investigation of the bodies belonging to the hexyl group , which are very imperfectly known , as may be inferred from the fact that Faget , the discoverer of hexylic alcohol , has not even published its analysis .

