III .
" Brief Description of a Ctenostomatous Polyzoon , allied to Vesicularia , occurring on the Australian Coast .
" By JOHN DENIS MACDONALD , Esq. , Assistant Surgeon R.N. Communicated by Captain DENHAM , R.N. , F , R.S , Received January 13 , 1857 .
In one of our visits to Moreton Bay , the sean was hauled at Moretor Island , and amongst the masses of sea-weed , &amp;c. brought up with the net , I found numerous specimens of a very beautiful Polyzoon , a small portion of which I had previously dredged at Port Stevens from a depth of 5 or 6 fathoms .
The Polypidom may be said to have consisted mainly of rooted , spreading and plantlike portions , and short , straight creeping trunks , connected at both extremities with the fixed part of the former , so that the whole presented the appearance of an open lace-work , having all the transparency and lustre of glass .
The trunks and branches were nearly perfectly cylindrical , and composed of an outer membranous sheath distended with a clear fluid ( which escaped with considerable force when the sheath was ruptured ) , and line-like reticulated vessels disposed in one plane , so as to communicate laterally with the polyp-cells , and divide the axis longitudinally into equal halves .
The more central canals of this vascular plane combined to form a compound vessel , which opened into a spherical sinus with cellular parietes at the base of each branch .
The ramification of the Polypidom generally exhibited a trichotomous arrangement , with simple articulations occurring only where the branches were given off .
The cells were clustered in linear series on opposite sides of the branched axis , oval in shape , corneous in texture , with a terminal combed aperture , folding inwards by the contraction of four equidistant sets of muscular fibres , which imparted a quadrilateral figure to the opening .
The polypes were very minute , but exhibited distinctly all the important points of structure observable in those of Vesicularia and Bowerbankia , between which genera this polyzoon would appear to lie .
The ciliated tentacula , like those of Vesicularia , are eight in number , and do not possess the motionless hair-like processes which project from the back of each in Bowerbankia .
Although too much importance must not be attached to the actual tumber of tentacula surrounding the oral aperture , the tendency to multiply those organs must not be altogether forgotten .
Thus , while there are but eight in Vesicularia , Bowerbankia densa and Bowerbankia 2epens possess respectively ten and twelve .
Both Bowerbankia and Vesicularia agree in the uniserial and unilateral distribution of the polypes , but in the present instance the cells are arranged in linear and bilateral clusters ,

