14 A Trypanosome from Zanzibar .
By Colonel Sir David Bruce , C.B. , M.B. , F.R.S. , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , Army Medical Service , and Captains A. E. Hamerton , D.S.O. , and H. R. Bateman , Royal Army Medical Corps .
( Received September 18 , \#151 ; Read November 26 , 1908 .
) ( From the Laboratory of the Royal Army Medical College , London .
) [ Plates 1 and 2 .
] About the middle of April , 1908 , Dr. J. Rose Bradford , F.R.S. , had handed over to him by Dr. Edington , F.R.S.E. , a rabbit whose blood contained a trypanosome .
Dr. Edington stated that he had inoculated the rabbit with blood from a horse he found at Zanzibar suffering from some obscure disease .
This rabbit was handed over to one of us ( D. B. ) by Dr. Bradford for the purpose of keeping the strain alive and , if possible , identifying the species of trypanosoma .
The following notes have since been received from Dr. Edington .
The trypanosome was found at Zanzibar , where no trypanosome has formerly been known .
It occurred in a horse in a stable among others , of which none were infected .
The animal was old , and had been many years in the place .
At death the symptoms were like those in surra and nagana , but the spleen was not enlarged , nor was it coloured abnormally .
The usual oedema was apparent and most marked in the sheath , up the abdomen , in the chest , and down the posterior limbs .
Dr. Edington inoculated a horse , an ox , and a goat successfully .
The disease ran a sub-acute form in the original horse , but in the inoculated one it seemed rather more acute .
Inoculated on February 18 , trypanosomes were seen in its blood on the 25th , and by March 1 the sheath was swollen .
There was no real fever ( 102o,2 F. ) until February 28 , so that in this case the appearance of parasites preceded the fever .
On March 7 it had greatly recovered , oedema had subsided , and the weakness of the preceding few days was recovered from .
Dr. Edington left on March 8 , and fears the animal was destroyed , as they had no further vote for funds for food , etc. A young ox , inoculated on February 15 , showed trypanosomes on the 27th .
It had fever fairly high , but had recovered before be left , and trypanosomes were exceedingly few .
A goat showed high fever , but its blood never showed trypanosomes at any time , although Dr. Edington hunted with very great thoroughness .
A Trypanosome from Zanzibar .
Two rabbits were inoculated , one subcutaneously and one intraperitoneally .
The former was sent to Dr. Mesnil from Marseilles , but it has shown nothing .
It was twice inoculated with big doses , one from a horse and one from an ox .
The other Dr. Edington handed over to Dr. Bradford , and from this rabbit the trypanosome under consideration was obtained and studied .
On examining the rabbit 's blood , the trypanosome was found to be a small one , with poorly-developed undulating membrane , and no free flagellum .
The average length was only 13'5 microns .
Although it is impossible in some cases to name the trypanosomes from their shape and size alone , still it is evident that a trypanosome of this size , with no free flagellum , cannot be Trypanosoma brucei , evansi , , or several other species which need not be enumerated .
The names of such small trypanosomes as Trypanosoma nanum ( Laveran ) , Trypanosoma ( Broden ) , or Trypanosoma dimorphon ( Dutton and Todd ) , at once occur to the mind .
No doubt the tendency in naming these haematozoa is to multiply unnecessarily the number of species .
But , on the other hand , it is just as great a mistake to lump too many species together , as has been done .
If there is some well-marked difference in two trypanosomes , even if alike in shape , such as their power of setting up disease in certain animals , their mode of spreading from the sick to the healthy\#151 ; it may be in one by tsetse flies , in another by stomoxys , or tabanus , or by other means\#151 ; then , naturally , it is of great practical use to distinguish them by different specific names .
Again , it might be argued , that if two trypanosomes were different morphologically , but had the same effect on animals , the same distribution and the same carrier , then the two varieties for practical purposes might be included in the same species .
For example , when we have to do with Trypanosoma yambiense we at once know that man is susceptible , that the carrier is palpalis , and that we must keep ourselves out of the area of distribution of this fly if we would escape infection .
Theories in regard to the spread of sleeping sickness by mosquitoes , stomoxys , fleas , sexual intercourse , and such like , may , for practical purposes , be ignored .
If it is Trypanosoma brucei , then we know man is not susceptible , but that we must keep our horses , cattle , and dogs out of the area of distribution of Glossina morsitans .
The three most important questions to be borne in mind , in classifying trypanosomes , are , what animals are they capable of infecting , the gravity of the infection , and , thirdly , what is the carrier ?
To these may be added the morphology of the trypanosome , its cultural characteristics , if any , and , if possible , cross-inoculation experiments .
If these several facts could be 16 Sir D. Bruce and Capts .
Hamerton and Bateman .
[ Sept. 18 , set down for each trypanosome encountered in Africa , then some classification of the African species might be attempted .
But it is only for a fewr species , such as Trypanosoma gambiense and Trypanosoma brucei , that we have all these data .
Take , for example , the case of Trypanosoma congolense ( Broden ) and Trypanosoma dimorphon ( Dutton and Todd)\#151 ; most important trypanosome diseases .
Laveran thinks they are distinct on account of a cross-inoculation experiment , but Broden himself , Bodhain , and Dutton and Todd all seem to lean to their really being one and the same species .
With the data at our disposal at present it is impossible to come to a definite decision .
At the present time the classification of the pathogenic trypanosomes is in a state of chaos , and we have no desire to add to the confusion .
Nevertheless , we think it will be well to give a description of Dr. Edington 's trypanosome , as far as we have been able to study it , in view of the fact that we are starting at once for Uganda to continue the investigation of sleeping sickness .
Morphology of Dr. Edington 's Trypanosome .
A. Living , unstained .
Dr. Edington 's trypanosome in the fresh condition , as seen in a drop of blood from an infected guinea-pig or rat , appears short and stumpy in outline , about twice the diameter of the red blood corpuscles , among which it slowly moves , with , as a rule , its rapidly-vibrating flagellum in front .
The posterior or non-flagellar extremity appears blunt and rounded off abruptly , while the anterior tapers off to a fine point .
In the fresh preparation the undulating membrane is not much in evidence , though sometimes it can be seen thrown into waves .
The contents of the cell are homogeneous , except for a small refractile body at the posterior extremity , which is evidently the micro-nucleus .
B. Fired and stained .
Method of staining.\#151 ; The method used for fixing and staining the trypanosomes is usually as follows .
The blood-film while still moist is exposed to the vapour of a 4-per-cent , solution of osmic acid in distilled water , to which a drop of glacial acetic acid has been added , for 45 seconds .
The cover-glass is then transferred to absolute alcohol for from five minutes to half an hour .
It is then passed through grades of alcohol from 80 per cent , to 10 per cent , in distilled water .
Twenty-five drops of Giemsa 's stock stain ( Grubler 's ) are now mixed with 25 c.c. of distilled water .
The films are placed in this , face downwards , for 8 to 12 hours , then washed in distilled water , and rinsed quickly in solution of orange tannin ( orange G. 1 per cent. , A Trypanosome from Zanzibar .
1908 .
] tannin 5 per cent. , in distilled water ) .
When sufficiently decolorised , the films are washed in distilled water , dehydrated by passing through acetone , cleared in xylol , and mounted in Canada balsam .
Dr. Edington 's trypanosome when stained in this way appears of a pale puce colour with reddish-purple nucleus and micro-nucleus .
The following detailed description must be understood to refer to this trypanosome as found in the blood of the white rat .
Length.\#151 ; It is no easy matter to measure these small irregularly-shaped bodies , and doubtless the method of measurement used will govern to some extent the result .
The method used by us is simply to draw a sharp outline of the trypanosome by means of a Zeiss camera lucida , at a magnification of 2000 diameters , and then to measure along the middle line of the body by means of a pair of fine compasses , the points of which are separated 2 mm. Each step the compass takes is therefore equal to 1 micron .
Twenty trypanosomes , taken as they come , are measured in this way in each specimen , and an average of the 20 measurements taken .
The following table gives some of the results:\#151 ; Dr. Edington 's Trypanosome .
No. of experiment .
Day of disease .
134 , mouse 9 69 , rat 30 55 30 \gt ; 5 30 55 30 55 30 84 , rabbit 22 Gruinea-pig 18 166 , dog 14 Method of staining .
In microns .
Average Maximum Minimum length .
length .
length .
15 -3 20-0 13 -0 13-0 16-0 10 -o 13 -9 17 -0 10 0 13 -4 18 -0 10 -o 15 -0 18 -0 13 -0 13 -5 17 -0 11 -o 13 -0 16 -0 9 -0 12 -5 16 -0 8 *0 13 -0 16 -0 10 -o 13 -6 17'1 10 -4 Griemsa ... . .
Leishman____ Griemsa ... . .
Methyl green Griemsa ... . .
Leishman ... .
Griemsa ... . .
\#187 ; ... ... .
\#187 ; ... ... .
Average .
VOL. LXXXI.\#151 ; B. C 18 Sir D. Bruce and Capts .
Hamerton and Bateman .
[ Sept. 18 , For purposes of comparison measurements of Trypanosoma and Trypanosoma congolense are given in the following tables :\#151 ; Day of disease .
Method of staining .
In microns .
No. of experiment .
Average Maximum Minimum length .
length .
length .
Trypanosoma dimorphon .
Mouse ( Laveran and Mesnil ) 116 rat ( ?
Griemsa 13 -8 17 -0 12 -0 15 13 -8 16 -0 11 -o 9 n Leishman 11 -3 14 -0 9-0 9 \#187 ; 12 -6 15-0 11 -o Dog ( Harvey , Sierra ?
j ) 12 3 15 -0 9-0 Leone ) Cow ( Smith , Sierra ?
)\gt ; 12 -4 15 -0 10 -o Leone ) 1 Average 12 -5 15 -3 10 -3 Trypanosoma congolense .
142 .
, mouse 7 Griemsa 12 -8 15 -0 10 -o 143 , mouse 5 Leishman 11 -5 14 -0 10 -o 152 , rat 11 Griemsa 11 -6 15 -0 9-0 11 11 -5 14 -0 10 -o 154 , rat 19 12 -6 17 -0 10 -o Average 12 -0 15 -0 9 -8 Breadth.\#151 ; On an average the breadth at the widest part is 3 microns .
Shape.\#151 ; Dr. Edington 's trypanosome when stained is seen to be of a short and stumpy shape , somewhat reminding one of a miniature electric eel .
The posterior extremity is , as a rule , blunt , or rounded or obtuse-angled , but sometimes , though rarely , it is prolonged into a sharp beak-like process .
The anterior end tapers more or less , and ends in a short stout flagellum .
The undulating membrane is narrow but distinct .
The flagellum arises at or near the micro-nucleus and passes along the edge of the undulating membrane .
There is no free flagellum , the protoplasm of the cell and the undulating membrane extending as far as the tip of the flagellum .
Contents of Cell.\#151 ; The protoplasm , which is stained a pale puce colour , is homogeneous in structure .
Nucleus.\#151 ; The nucleus is oval in shape , about 2'5 microns in length , and is situated at the centre of the trypanosome .
Micro-nucleus.\#151 ; The micro-nucleus , centrosome , or kineto-nucleus , is small .
1908 .
] A Trypanosome from Zanzibar .
round , or rod-shaped , and is situated close to the posterior extremity .
It stains more deeply than the nucleus .
Undulating Membrane.\#151 ; The undulating membrane is narrow .
As a rule it is straight and simple , and does not show much tendency to be thrown into folds .
Flagellum.\#151 ; The flagellum stains intensely .
It is well marked , and does not project beyond the protoplasm of the cell and the undulating membrane .
Sometimes , in faintly-stained specimens , there is the appearance of a slight projection of the flagellum beyond the body ; but , speaking broadly , this species of trypanosome may be said to have no free flagellum .
The conclusion to be drawn from a study of the morphology of Dr. Edington 's trypanosome , Trypanosoma and Trypanosoma congolense , is , that the two first resemble each other very closely , whereas Trypanosoma congolense seems to be of a somewhat shorter and stouter form .
It will also be seen that in the strain of Trypanosoma dimorphon used there is only one form , and that , the short or tadpole form described by Dutton and Todd .
With regard to this , it may be of interest to quote some remarks of Dr. Breinl , to whom I am obliged for his courtesy in sending me this strain .
He writes :\#151 ; " With regard to Trypanosoma , you are aware that some remarkable change has occurred in the strain between the time Drs. Dutton and Todd brought it back from Africa and we started work on it here .
Whereas Drs. Dutton and Todd describe the long flagellated forms with the free flagella , Thomas and myself , Laveran and Mesnil , could not see these forms with a thin body and a long flagellum .
The strain I send you in a rat is the original strain .
" It is difficult to understand how this change in morphology has been brought about .
It may be that Dutton and Todd were dealing with a double infection , of which one has died out .
This point will require to be investigated on the spot .
Another matter for consideration is whether this name Trypanosoma dimorphon should be adhered to .
It certainly seems a misnomer when applied to the strain figured above .
If it should be decided to drop it , 1 think the compliment should be paid to Dr. Todd of naming it after him .
Inoculation Experiments on various Species of Animals .
The animals , in which the effect of the inoculation of Dr. Edington 's trypanosome has been studied , have been horses , cattle , goats , monkeys , dogs , rabbits , guinea-pigs , white rats and mice .
The inoculations were made , as a rule , intraperitoneally .
Inoculation experiments with Trypanosoma dimorphon are also given for purposes of comparison .
These are printed in italics :\#151 ; 20 Sir D. Bruce and Capts .
Hamerton and Bateman .
[ Sept. 18 , .
No. of experiment .
Source of virus .
Period of incubation , in days .
Duration of disease , in days .
Eemarks .
Horses .
Edington Unknown Unknown Unknown Dr. E. thinks ran sub-acute course 55 Horse 7 55 Living after 18 days when Dr. E. left Dutton and Todd Natural TJnknoton 2'5 years , still Blood still infective infection alive 55 55 55 1 year , still No record alive Laveran \#151 ; 55 \#151 ; Horse recovered Cattle .
Edington Horse 12 1 Unknown Animal looked well on 21st day Dutton and Todd 10 30 Two cattle .
Goats .
Edington Horse Unknown Unknown 1 Blood never showed trypanosomes up to 18th day Dutton and Todd \#151 ; S'5 Well after a Two goats year Monkeys .
174 Eat 3 22 Spleen enlarged .
General glandular enlargement 175 55 3 \#151 ; Still alive ( Sept. 11 , 1908 ) Thomas and Breinl \#151 ; 4 and 6 \#166 ; 160 and 75 Two monkeys Dutton and Todd \#151 ; 4 \#151 ; Two never became infected Dogs .
165 Eat 7 18 Spleen enormously enlarged 166 \gt ; 5 9 15 55 55 167 55 7 17 55 55 179 7 14 Marked ulceration of stomach 180 55 9 14 Spleen greatly enlarged 181 55 7 14 55 55 Thomas and Breinl 4 to 8 10 to 19 Dutton and Todd \#151 ; 8 29 Average of 4 days Rabbits .
70 Eabbit 25 \#151 ; Still alive after 146 days 84 55 10 \#151 ; " 136 " 118 * 55 12 100 Spleen 4 inches long and much thickened 119 .
55 15 \#151 ; Still alive after 103 days 120 * 55 12 19 Spleen enlarged Thomas and Breinl \#151 ; 9 Acute , 26\#151 ; 35 ; chronic , 78\#151 ; 157 Dutton and Todd : \#151 ; 13 53 One rabbit 1908 .
] A Trypanosome from Zanzibar .
21 ISo .
of experiment .
Source of virus .
Period of incubation , in days .
Duration of disease , in days .
Remarks .
Guinea-pigs .
82 Rabbit 25 134 Liver and spleen enlarged 110 Rat 12 43 " greatly enlarged Ill 33 19 43 33 33 124 33 21 \#151 ; Still alive .after 105 days 125 33 21 69 Liver and^spleen enlarged 126 33 41 65 33 Dutton and Todd \#151 ; 6 SO Ttvo guinea-pigs Thomas and Breinl \#151 ; 4 to 15 9 to 60 White Rats .
69 Rabbit 13 30 Typical post-mortem appearances 83 10 \#151 ; Killed for cultivation experiments 83 a 33 li \#151 ; 33 33 127 33 7 41 Usual post-mortem appearances 128 33 7 36 33 33 88 Rat ii 5 20 2nd passage through rat 89 3 , ii 5 \#151 ; Killed for cultivation experiments 106 33 ii 5 \#151 ; 33 33 107 33 ii 4 14 Typical post-mortem appearances 108 33 ii 7 35 33 33 109 3 , ii 5 28 102 \#187 ; iii 6 \#151 ; Killed for cultivation experiments 102a " iii 7 37 Usual post-mortem appearances 121 " iii 4 37 122 " iii 5 44 123 " iii 4 \#151 ; Rat lost 156 " iii 7 20 Usual post-mortem appearances 157 " iii 7 23 Dutton and Todd 7 36 33 33 Thomas and Breinl \#151 ; 4 to 7 7 to 42 Mice .
132 Rat 10 24 .
134 33 4 11 137 33 10 11 Dutton and Todd 5 16 Thomas and Breinl \#151 ; 2 to 5 16 to 23 37 to 130 Conclusion .
The results of these inoculation experiments with Dr. Edington 's trypanosome and Trypanosoma dimorphon show that they act on the various animals employed in a strikingly similar manner .
Cultivation of Dr. Edington 's Trypanosome , Trypanosoma AND Trypanosoma conyolense .
In June , 1903 , Novy and MacNeal first announced the successful cultivation of Trypanosoma levnsi .
In the same year and in the following year they also succeeded in cultivating Trypanosoma brucei and Trypanosoma evansi .
22 Sir D. Bruce and Capts .
Hamerton and Bateman .
[ Sept. 18 , These gentlemen deserve the highest possible credit for this most difficult achievement , an achievement which most workers in this subject thought impossible .
The amount of work they expended and the splendid intelligence and pertinacity with which they pursued their object , refusing to accept defeat , command the admiration of all their co-workers in this branch of biological science .
Since then the trypanosomes of birds , frogs , and fish have been cultivated by the same and other workers ; but these successes have only been made possible , as a rule , by the pioneer work of Novy and his assistants .
Coming out of their work , mention may also be made of the very interesting and important observation made by Rogers when he grew Leishman 's bodies in ordinary citrated blood into trypanosome-like flagellates .
One of the chief interests attaching to this cultivation of trypanosomes is that it may assist in separating the different species of these organisms .
At the present time trypanology is in a state of chaos on account of this difficulty in differentiation .
Many diseases of animals caused by trypanosomes have been reported from all parts of Africa , Arabia , India , the Philippines , Mauritius , etc. , and it has often been found impossible to name the species of trypanosoma causing them with any approach to certainty .
As mentioned above , the usual method of separating the different species is by taking into consideration the morphology , the result of inoculation into animals , the cross-immunisation methods and serum diagnosis of Laveran and Mesnil , the mode by which the disease spreads from the sick to the healthy\#151 ; by a tsetse fly , a stomoxys , a tabanus , or by contact , as in dourine\#151 ; by the effect of various drugs , cultivation , etc. ; and , as already stated , the effect the parasite has on animals and the mode of conveyance are probably , for practical purposes , the most important .
But to assist in separating the various species , cultivation has been of use in the past , and , as the methods become perfected , will be of still greater use in the future .
The following description of the cultural characters of Dr. Edington 's trypansome exemplifies this , for , by comparing them with the cultural characters of other pathogenic species , a fairly shrewd guess at its classification may be made by this means alone .
For the purpose of this comparison a compilation of the cultural characters of Trypanosoma lewisi , Trypanosoma brucei , and Trypanosoma evansi has been made from the writings of ISTovy , MacNeal , and Smedley .
It may be mentioned here that attempts have been made in this laboratory to cultivate these three species .
The cultivation of the first was found to be a comparatively easy matter ; but all attempts , and they were many , to cultivate the last two have , up to the present , failed , although Novy 's instructions were carefully followed .
1908 .
] A Trypanosome from Zanzibar .
Cultivation Medium used .
The blood-agar medium used was made according to instructions kindly-sent by Prof. Novy .
These need not be repeated here , as the details are fully given by Novy and MacNeal in various papers .
Cultural Characters of Trypanosoma lewisi .
A. Living , unstained .
Size.\#151 ; Varies considerably in size .
Some are not more than 1 or 2 microns long , not including the flagellum .
Others are about the diameter of a red blood corpuscle , while the usual length of the spindle-shaped cells is 15 to 20 microns .
Some trypanosomes can be found at times which are 50 to 60 microns long .
The greatest variation in size is found in young cultures .
Shape.\#151 ; Trypanosoma lewisi varies greatly in shape , as well as in size .
Round , pear-shaped , fusiform and slender forms are present in the cultures .
The round forms are usually found in old cultures , and are probably involution forms .
Contents of Cell.\#151 ; The protoplasm in Trypanosoma lewisi , especially in young cultures , is bright , glistening , and apparently homogeneous in structure in the fusiform and slender forms .
Undulating Membrane.\#151 ; Not present as far as can be seen .
The movement of these cultural forms appears to be entirely due to the rapid motion of the flagellum .
Flagellum.\#151 ; These forms possess , as a rule , a long free flagellum .
In the slender forms this is sometimes twice the length of the body .
Motion.\#151 ; The single , slender , cultural forms of Trypanosoma lewisi are very active , and dart across the field of the microscope in a straight line .
In older cultures the round and other involution forms do not , as a rule , show more than a slight swaying movement .
Colonies or Aggregations.\#151 ; Growth commences in a first generation about the fifth day by the appearance of small rosettes composed of a few trypanosomes .
The colonies rapidly grow , so that on the following day masses of wriggling trypanosomes may be seen .
These aggregations of twenty or more are attached by their flagella .
They grow larger and larger until , about the twenty-fourth day , they are apparent to the naked eye , and consist of many thousands of trypanosomes .
B. Fixed , stained .
Protoplasm.\#151 ; Homogeneous , as a rule .
Vacuolation is rare , but sometimes a large highly-refractile vacuole is seen .
24 Sir D. Bruce and Capts .
Hamerton and Bateman .
[ Sept. 18 , Nucleus.\#151 ; Round or oval in shape .
Situated centrally or at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds .
Micro-nucleus.\#151 ; Is placed either close to the nucleus or at a variable distance anterior to it .
In the free forms it is never seen lying posterior to the nucleus .
As a rule , it is a rod-shaped structure , lying transversely to the long axis of the trypanosome .
Flagellum.\#151 ; Arises from the vicinity of the micro-nucleus .
The free flagellum is often two , three or four times the length of the body of the trypanosome .
Undulating Membrane.\#151 ; In the cultural form of Trypanosoma lewisi this structure is apparently absent .
Colonies or Aggregations.\#151 ; There is little to add to the description of the trypanosomes and of their arrangement in colonies .
Stained preparations show that the trypanosomes sometimes possess very long flagella .
Novy and MacNeal* have not apparently succeeded in staining the flagellum in their preparations , though they noted the position of the centrosome .
They expressed the opinion that the end of the trypanosome pointing towards the periphery of the colony was the anterior extremity , and that from it a flagellum would arise if the cultural conditions were perfected ( Smedley ) .
Measurements of the Cultural Forms of Trypanosoma lewisi .
Pear-shaped Forms.\#151 ; ( 1 ) Body , 3*6 to 4-4 microns long , and nearly as broad .
( 2 ) Flagellum , two to four times the length of the body .
Spindle-shaped Forms.\#151 ; 14 to 16 x 2*4 to 3'5 microns , flagellum not included .
Smaller and larger forms are frequently found .
The adult parasitic form of Trypanosoma leivisi measures 24 to 25 x 1*5 microns ( Laveran and Mesnil ) ( Smedley ) .
Cultural Characters of Trypanosoma brucei .
A. Living , unstained .
Size.\#151 ; Shows less variation in size than Trypanosoma lewisi , and averages 15 microns in the living condition .
Smaller than those found in the blood .
Shape.\#151 ; Do not vary much in shape , and closely resemble the forms found in the blood ( Smedley ) .
Contents of Cell.\#151 ; Show one or two very large , bright , and highly-refracting globules , usually placed near the anterior or flagellar end , in the otherwise homogeneous colourless cell .
In size the globules may attain 1 micron * ' Cultivation of Trypanosoma brucei , ' p. 28 .
1908 .
] A Trypanosome from Zanzibar .
At times the number of these globules is increased , as when the culture is kept at 34 ' C. The presence of numerous large , highly-refractile globules in the cultural forms of Trypanosoma brucei is attributed by Novy and MacNeal to degeneration of the organisms , owing to imperfection of the culture medium .
These globules become more numerous as the age of the culture advances .
Do not seem to alter in position or shape if kept under observation for several hours .
Resist staining completely .
Laveran and Mesnil suggest that the globules are of the same nature as the refringent , unstainable granules found in Trypanosoma rotatorium .
Undulating Membrane.\#151 ; No detailed description available .
Flagellum.\#151 ; The flagellum in the living cell is by no means as distinct and as long as that of Trypanosoma leivisi .
Motion.\#151 ; The motion of Trypanosoma brucei is slow and wriggling , and only exceptionally is a slowly-progressive form observed .
The wave-motion slowly passes along the thick , undulating membrane , and gives the appearance of a spiral rotation to the entire cell .
Scarcely departs from its place ( Novy ) .
In a young culture the trypanosomes are found to possess very active movements .
Sometimes they advance across the field moderately quickly , but their rate of movement is always much slower than that of the rat trypanosomes , whose flagella are longer and more rapid in motion ( Smedley ) .
Colonies or Aggregates.\#151 ; Occurs in groups or rosettes .
Rarely forms masses of more than 10 to 20 cells .
The individuals are long , narrow , and show the peculiar writhing motion .
The flagella are directed outwards , and the appearance of the whole may be compared to the snakes on a Medusa head .
The stellate group with the bright , refracting globules within the cells , suggests a jeweller 's " sun burst " ( Novy ) .
The active movements of the trypanosomes , and the large glistening vacuoles with which they are studded , give these colonies a singularly beautiful appearance ( Smedley ) .
B. Fixed , stained .
Protoplasm .
The protoplasm invariably contains a few deeply-stained granules of a red or violet colour .
The vacuoles are seen as clear circular spaces with sharply-defined outlines in stained preparations ( Smedley ) .
Nucleus .
Round or oval in shape ; and in older forms it breaks into masses of cromatin , which are found distributed through the protoplasm of the cell ( Smedley ) .
Micro-nucleus.\#151 ; This is much smaller than in Trypanosoma lewisi ; it is usually circular , but sometimes elongated .
It stains a deep red or purple colour , and it is sometimes difficult to distinguish it from the other granules .
26 Sir D. Bruce and Capts .
Hamerton and Bateman .
[ Sept. 18 , It is generally found close to the vacuole ; sometimes it lies close to the nucleus , but it is nearly always posterior to the latter structure ( Smedley ) .
Flagellum.\#151 ; Takes a tortuous course along the free border of the undulating membrane , and projects for a short distance from the anterior extremity ( Smedley ) .
Undulating Membrane.\#151 ; No detailed description given .
Colonies or Aggregates.\#151 ; Most of the flagella are directed in an outward direction .
It is rare to find colonies of a large size ( Smedley ) .
Measurements of the Cultural Forms of Trypanosoma brucei .
Length , including flagellum , 18 to 23 x 2'5 to 3'5 microns .
Length of free flagellum , 3 to 5 microns .
Diameter of vacuoles , 1 to 2 microns .
The adult parasitic forms of Trypanosoma brucei measure , in the blood of rats , 26 to 27 xl'5 to 2'5 microns ( Laveran and Mesnil ) ( Smedley ) .
Cultural Characters of Trypanosoma evansi .
A. Living , unstained .
Size.\#151 ; The body of one large individual measured 21 microns , while the flagellum was 28 microns in length .
Shape.\#151 ; The slender fusiform body terminates at one end in a delicate flagellum .
The posterior end , especially when blunt , showed a rod-like tip or stylet , which varied from 2 to 4 or even 6 microns in length .
As the cultures aged , pear-shaped or spherical , highly granular , involution forms appeared .
In the former type , measuring about 3 by 5 microns , the end was often provided with a flagellum , 10 to 15 microns long , which still showed a slow lashing movement , though the cell itself was motionless .
The spherical forms varied from 4 to 9 microns in diameter , were granular , and often showed a remnant of the flagellum as a short , stiff , motionless whip .
These involution forms , as in the case of Trypanosoma lewisi and Trypanosoma brucei , eventually gathered into large groups or masses , which at times filled the field of an immersion lens .
Later on , the round bodies broke up into masses of very minute granules .
Contents of Cell.\#151 ; Presence and peculiar arrangement of granules within the cells , and a distinct yellowish or greenish colour of the granules and of the contents .
Large numbers of small granules or globules , which vary from 0-3 to 0'5 micron in diameter .
These globules , as well as the contents of the cell , possess a decided yellowish or greenish colour , and appearance quite unlike that of either Trypanosoma lewisi or Trypanosoma brucei .
The globules are usually massed in the anterior-third of the cells\#151 ; that is , at the 1908 .
] A 'Trypanosome Zanzibar .
base of the flagellum , and only a few isolated granules are scattered through the remainder of the organism ( Novy and MacNeal ) .
Undulating Membrane.\#151 ; Is not recognisable in the living organism .
Flagellum.\#151 ; Usually as long and often even longer than the cell itself .
Motion.\#151 ; All single and actively motile , traversing the field of the microscope at great speed .
Travel with the flagellum in rear or in front .
Colonies or Aggregates.\#151 ; Entire absence of the groups or rosettes , which are so characteristic of the cultures of Trypanosoma lewisi and Trypanosoma brucei .
The trypanosomes were all single and actively motile .
Measurement of the Cultural Forms .
Length , including flagellum , 25 to 50 by 1*5 to 2-5 microns .
Cultural Characters of Dr. Edington 's Trypanosome .
A. Living , unstained .
No difficulty is found in cultivating Dr. Edington 's trypanosome .
As early as the second day , if kept at 25 ' C. , it is found to have greatly increased in numbers .
The single individuals are in active motion , the flagellum wildly waving , while the body slowly moves among the corpuscles .
Many dividing forms are seen with two or three flagella .
Masses or aggregations are also seen varying in size , from those composed of a dozen individuals to those occupying a fifth of the field .
These aggregation-forms are all writhing and squirming , while the flagella at the periphery are frantically waving .
This incessantly moving mass , dotted over as it is with many small bright vacuoles , makes a curious and beautiful microscopic object when brightly illuminated .
On the third day the trypanosomes have multiplied to an extraordinary extent .
Huge aggregations are now seen , each filling up several fields of the microscope .
The individual trypanosomes are still actively motile .
Single , double , and small aggregations are also seen .
By the seventh day they have reached the height of their growth and begin to degenerate .
After the twelfth day living forms can no longer be recognised in the culture tubes .
Size.\#151 ; Dr. Edington 's trypanosome , examined in the fresh living condition , varies considerably in size .
Some of the large forms measure 32 microns in length , whereas the smaller are only half that length , or even shorter .
Shape.\#151 ; So also in regard to shape , these cultural forms vary extremely .
Round , oval , pear-shaped , and irregular forms are seen .
Slender forms '28 Sir D. Bruce and Capts .
Hamerton and Bateman .
[ Sept. 18 , shaped like ordinary trypanosomes , with a beak or rostellum at one end , a fairly thick flagellum at the other , and furnished with an undulating membrane , are fairly common .
Large irregular masses of any shape , furnished with one or more flagella , are also frequent .
Contents of Cell.\#151 ; These cells have a remarkable appearance , as they are filled with highly retractile granules , large in size , round in shape , and numerous .
Undulating Membrane.\#151 ; The round , oval , and pear-shaped forms do not appear to possess an undulating membrane , whereas the long , slender forms , as also the huge fish-shaped or octopus-like forms , often show well-marked undulating membranes .
Flagellum.\#151 ; The flagella in these living unstained cultural forms are thick and coarse , and differ markedly from the slender structures usually associated in the mind with trypanosomes .
Just as in the parasitic forms found in the blood , it is evident that the protoplasm of the body extends to the tip of the flagellum giving rise to this thick stumpy appearance .
Motion.\#151 ; The slender forms are active and swim fairly quickly across the field .
The large , irregular forms are stationary , but exhibit actively wriggling flagella and amoeboid movements of the body substance .
Colonies or Aggregates.\#151 ; Colonies or aggregations of 10 to 20 individual cells are common .
The cells are arranged irregularly .
Some of their flagella may be directed outwards , while others are seen entangled in the mass and feebly wriggling .
On the third day these aggregations may be seen as large as three to five fields of the microscope , and must be composed of many thousands of individual trypanosomes .
B. Fixed , stained .
Method of Fixing and Staining.\#151 ; The cultural forms of Dr. Edington 's trypanosome were either prepared by mixing a drop of the cultivation fluid with fresh serum , spreading on a slide , and staining by Leishman 's modification of Roinanowsky 's method , or the fluid was spread on a slide , fixed by \#166 ; osmic acid and stained by Giemsa , and then treated with orange tannin to .differentiate the various structures .
In Leishman-stained preparations the protoplasm of the cells is stained a pale blue , the nuclei and irregular masses of chromatin reddish or pink , while the vacuoles stand out as unstained spaces with sharply-defined margins .
In Giemsa-stained preparations , on the other hand , the protoplasm is stained a pale puce colour , while the chromatin material is stained reddish purple .
Protoplasm.\#151 ; The protoplasm of the cell is homogeneous , but contains 1908 .
] A Trypanosome from Zanzibar .
irregular-shaped granules and masses of chromatin-staining material .
There are also present numerous well-marked vacuoles of various sizes , which are unstained , and , as mentioned above , highly refractile .
Nucleus.\#151 ; The nuclei are of every form and shape , and often broken up into irregular masses .
Micro-nucleus.\#151 ; The micro-nuclei are irregularly placed ; in some cells are not easily distinguishable from other granules contained in the protoplasm , but in many are clearly seen as deeply-staining bodies , round or rod-shaped , in close connection with the point of origin of the flagella .
Flagellum.\#151 ; The flagella are , as a rule , thick and fleshy .
In the irregular forms they appear to spring from any part of the shapeless mass of protoplasm , and in any direction .
Undulating Membrane.\#151 ; The undulating membrane is also characterised by its extreme irregularity .
In many cells it appears to be absent , while in others it is well marked , broad , and thrown into folds .
Colonies or Aggregations.\#151 ; The individual trypanosomes which go to compose the large aggregations are as a rule short and stumpy in form , with ovalshaped nucleus and short stumpy flagellum .
They are of irregular shape and size , and are placed without any seeming order .
Cultural Characters of Trypanosoma ( Dutton and Todd ) .
It is unnecessary to describe in detail the cultural characters of this , trypanosome , as they agree exactly with those of Dr. Edington 's .
Cultural Characters of Trypanosoma congolense ( Broden ) .
Several attempts were made to cultivate Trypanosoma congolense , but .
none of them were very successful .
There is certainly not the rapid growth of this trypanosome which distinguishes Dr. Edington 's trypanosome and Trypanosoma dimorphon .
It is only after a long search that individual trypanosomes can be found in the preparations .
There is no formation of masses or aggregations filling several fields of the microscope as in the others .
It is difficult to say whether there is any real multiplication or not .
All that can be said is that , for about eight days , living trypanosomes can be seen .
At first these are shaped like the ordinary trypanosomes found in the blood , only larger and swollen in appearance ; but by the fifth and following days these change into most irregular and fantastic shapes .
Nothing living could be seen after the eighth day .
This cultivation experiment would therefore seem to strengthen Dr. Laveran 's opinion that Trypanosoma dimorphon and Trypanosoma congolense are distinct species .
A Trypanosome from Zanzibar .
Conclusion .
The conclusion arrived at is that Dr. Edington 's trypanosome from Zanzibar is probably Dutton and Todd 's Trypanosoma dimorphon .
One link in the chain of evidence , however , is wanting , and that an important one\#151 ; the identity or non-identity of the carrier .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 1 .
This plate represents the shape and size of the three Trypanosomes , viz. :\#151 ; 1 .
Dr. Edington 's trypanosome .
From blood of rat .
30th day of disease .
Giemsa .
x 2000 .
See p. 27 .
2 .
Trypanosoma dimorphon .
From blood of rat .
15th day of disease .
Giemsa .
X 2000 .
See p. 29 .
3 .
Trypanosoma congolense .
From blood of mouse .
7th day of disease .
Giemsa .
x 2000 .
See p. 29 .
Plate 2 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Part of an aggregation of Dr. Edington 's trypanosomes after 5 days ' growth .
Stained Giemsa .
x 2000 .
Figs. 2-4.\#151 ; Dr. Edington 's trypanosome after 6 days ' growth .
Stained Giemsa .
x 2000 .
Figs. 5-14.\#151 ; Cultural forms of Dr. Edington 's trypanosome after 7 days ' growth .
Stained Leishman .
x 2000 .
Stained Stained Stained Bruce and others .
Roy .
Soc. Rroc .
, B. vol. 81 , Plate 1 .
Bruce $ others Roy .
Soc. Proc. B VoL .
, PI .
2 .
KPParker 11th Parker JcWeatimp

