I. " On an Element of Strength in Beams subjected to Tralisverse Strain , named by the author The Resistance of Flexure .
' ) ( Second Communication .
) By WILLIAM HENRY BARLOnW , Esq. , F.R.S. Received March 12 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) In his former paper on this subject the author pointed out the existence of an element of strength in beams when subjected to transverse strain , the resistance of flexure-which had been omitted in the generally received theory ; and the object of the present experimental inquiry is to elucidate more clearly the general bearing of the subject , and determine more precisely the laws which govern this resistance .
The forms of beam employed in the experiments formerly described were only of two kinds-solid rectangular bars and open girders ; in the present experiments other forms have been used , namely , square bars broken on their sides , square bars broken on their angles , round bars , beams of the I section broken with the flanges horizontal , and similar beams broken with the flanges vertical - .
The results of these experiments are exhibited in Tables , together with those of the former series ; and the author employs them , in the first place , to test the accuracy of the existing theory , by comparing the resistance of the outer fibres or particles of each of the forms of beam , calculated on that theory , with the actual tensile strength of the metal as obtained by direct experiment .
From this comparison applied to the different forms of beam , it would follow that the resistance at the outer fibre varies from 25,271 lbs. to 53,966 lbs. , while the tensile strength of the metal , obtained by experiments on direct tension , averages only 18,750 lbs. ; and the discrepancy and variation will be found to arise from the received theory not taking into account the resistance consequent on the molecular disturbance accompanying curvature .
In his former paper the author gave a formula by which the difference between the tensile strength and the apparent resistance at the outer fibre could be computed , approximatively , in solid rectangular beams and open girders ; and he now proposes to trace the operation of the resistance of flexure , considered as a separate element of strength , and to show its effect , in each of the forms of section above indicated .
Observing that the usual supposition of only two resistances in a beam , tension and compression , fails to account either for the strength , or for the visible changes of figure which take place under transverse strain , he proceeds to discuss the effects involved in such change of figure , and thence arrives at the following conclusions applicable to the resistance of flexure:1 .
That it is a resistance acting in addition to the direct extension and to compression .
2 .
That it is evenly distributed over the surface , and consequently ( within the limits of its operation ) its points of action will be at the centres of gravity of the half-section .
3 .
That this uniform resistance is due to the lateral cohesion of the adjacent surfaces of the fibres or particles , and to the elastic reaction which thus ensues between the portions of a beam unequally strained .
4 .
That it is proportional to and varies with the inequality of strain , as between the fibres or particles nearest the neutral axis and those most remote .
Formulae are then given , according to these principles , exhibiting the relation between the straining and resisting forces in the several forms of section experimented on , as resulting from the joint effect of the resistances of tension , compression and flexure .
The application of these formulae to the actual experiments yields a series of equations with numerical coefficients , in which , were the metal of uniform strength , the tensile strengthf , and the resistance of flexure p , would be constant quantities , and their value might be obtained from any two of the equations ; but as the strength varies even in castings of the same dimensions , and as a reduction of strength per unit of section takes place when the thickness is increased , the values off and q will necessarily vary , and can only be ascertained in each experiment by first establishing the ratio they bear to each other .
For this purpose the first ten experiments are used , in all of which the metal was from 3 to 1 inch in thickness , and its mean tensile strength ascertained by direct experiment to be 18,750 lbs. per inch .
The resulting mean value of p is= 16,573 Ibs .
, and the ratio off to p as 1 to '847 .
By using results obtained by Prof. Hodgkinson on the breaking weight of inch bars of ten different descriptions of iron , where the tensile strength was ascertained by direct experiment , it would appear that the ratio between the resistance of tension and the resistance of flexure varies in different qualities of metal , an inference which seems to be confirmed by other experiments on rectangular bars given in the Report of the Commissioners on the application of iron to railway structures .
The mean result , however , accords nearly with that of the author 's experiments , and gives the ratio of fto q as 1 to '853 .
Hence , according to these data , the resistance to flexure , computed as a force evenly distributed over the section , is almost nine-tenths of the tensile resistance .
This ratio of the values off and 0 being applied to the equations resulting from the several experiments , gives the tensile strength of the metal as derived from each form of section , and the results , though not perfectly regular , are found to be within the limits of the variation exhibited by the metal as shown by the experiments on direct tension in the former paper .
Classified and condeised , these results are as follows : The mean tensile strength as obtained from The open girders , is ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 18,282 The solid rectangular bar of 2 inches sectional area 17,971 The inch bars-square and round , and square broken diagonally ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
19,616 The bars of 4 inches sectional area , square and round , and square broken diagonally ... ... 16,800 The compound sections in which the metal was inch thick ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
19,701 Having thus found that his forrmule , when applied to his own experiments , gave consistent and satisfactory results , the author next tested them by other known experiments , and especially refers to those by iajor Wade on the transverse strength of square and round bars of cast iron of different qualities , related in the " Reports on the Strength and other Properties of Metals for Cannon , " presented to the United States Government by the Officers of the Ordnance Department .
The unit of strength , as computed by Major Wade from these experiments , came out uniformly much higher in the round than in the square bars of the same kind of iron , whence he was led to doubt the correctness of the formula employed ; but the author shows that when his formula is used , which includes the resistance of flexure , the discrepancy referred to disappears , and the tensile resistance , whether obtained for the round or the square bars , agrees very nearly with that derived from the experiments on direct tension under like circumstances .
As to the ratio between the resistance of flexure and the tensile resistance , it is remarked that , were the metal homogeneous , the former resistance would probably be precisely equal to the latter , instead of bearing the ratio of nine-tenths , as found by experiment ; but the ratio evidently varies in different qualities of metal ; and accordingly from Major Wade 's experiments , it appears that with the same metal subjected to different modes of casting , an increase of transverse strength may accompany a decrease in the tensile resistance .
Respecting the limit of action of the resistance of flexure , the author observes , that in all the simple solid sections , the points of action are evidently the centres of gravity of the half-section ; while in the compound sections itis necessary to compute the centre rib and flanges as for two separate beams in which the resistance of flexure is different , and has its point of action at the centre of gravity of the separate portions .
It would appear that the elastic reaction developes this resistance to the full extent when the section is such that a straight line may be drawn from every point at the outer portion to every point at the neutral axis within the section ; but that if the form of section is such that straight lines drawn from the outer fibres or particles to the neutral axis fall without the section , then it must be treated as two separate beams , each having that amount of resistance of flexure due to the depth of the metal contained in it .
The last section of the paper is devoted to the consideration of the resistance of flexure in wrought iron ; and experiments are first given to determine the position of the neutral axis , from which it is found to be at the celntre of gravity of the section , as in cast iron ; so that the action is the same in both materials , except as to the amount of the extensions and compressions with a given strain ; and the formulae given for cast iron will also apply to wrought iron .
As wrought iron yields by bending and not by fracture , the relative value off and ( are not so easily ascertained ; moreover the ultimate compressive strain which wrought iron can sustain is little more than half its ultimate tensile strength ; nevertheless the force required to overcome the elasticity of the material is nearly the same , whether applied as a compressive or tensile strain ; the difference being , that the force which overcomes elasticity when applied as a compressive strain leads to the destruction or distortion of the material , while , in the case of the tensile strain , the elasticity may be overcome long before the material yields by absolute rupture .
A statement is given of the results of experiments made by Professor Barlow , in 1837 , to show the weights which overcome the elasticity of the metal when applied transversely as compared with the weight necessary to produce the same result when applied by direct tension , and from these it is concluded that the resistance of flexure in wrought iron , considered as a force acting evenly over the surface , is nearly equal to one-half of the tensile resistance .
In an Appendix to this paper , by Professor Barlow ( read at the following meeting ) , the preceding principles are applied to beams and rafters of non-symmetrical section .
With this view , the case of the double-flanged girder with unequal flanges is selected and discussed , and formulae deduced , which are then tested by comparison with the results of experiments by Prof. Hodgkinson , published in the ' Manchester Memoirs ; ' a selection being made of those in which the girders differed most from each other in section , dimensions , and bearing-distance .
The chief particulars of these experiments are given , with diagrams showing the forms of sections , and the values as obtained from the formulae are stated .
The value of the direct tensile strength of cast iron thus derived , falls between the limits of 1400 and 1700 .
In the Reports of the Commissioners of Inquiry into the " Application of Iron to Railway Structures , " are given the results of about fifty experiments on the direct tensile resistance of one-inch square cast-iron bars , under the direction of Professor IIodgkinson .
The bars consisted of seventeen different kinds of iron , each set of bars being of the like quality and manufacture ; and in several of these sets , which might have been expected to yield the same results , the difference is fully as great as in the cases here exhibited .
From this fact an inference may be drawn in favour of the general applicability of the principles developed in the foregoing pages to cast-iron beams and girders of every variety of section .

