VII .
Extract of a Letter from M. Geoffroy , Chemist , Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris , and F. R. S. to Sir Hans Sloane , Bart. President of the Royal Society ; concerning Mr. Seignette 's SAL POLYCHRESTUS RUPELLENSI S , and some other Chemical Salts .
By T. S. M. D. Paris , May 4 , 1732 .
SIR , WE have nothing new in Chemistry here , but the Discovery we have made of the Make of Messrs. Seignette 's Sal polychrestus Rupellensis .
It is a Tartarum solubile , composed of Cream , or Crystals of Tartar ; and the fixed Salt of the Kali of Alicante well depurated .
This Salt is very singular ; for tho ' it be a fixed Alkaline Salt , it has the peculiar Property of crystalizing ; nor does it easily dissolve in the open Air , as other fixed Salts do ; but on the contrary , it calcines therein , like Vitriols or Glauber 's Salt .
Another peculiar Property , which I have observed to belong to it , is , that if it be satiated with a vitriolick Acid , and the Liquor be evaporated , there results a Salt that has the Form of Glauber 's Salt , and all the Properties requisite to make Messrs .
Seignette 's Salt .
In order to which , Take of the Salt of Kali well purified , ~ .
dissolve it in Water , add thereto of Crystals of Tartar about 1~ ~ ; boil the whole in order to dissolve the Crystals of Tartar .
But the exact Proportion of Crystals of Tartar can be no more determined in this Operation , than in making the Tartarum solubile ; either because the Salt of Kali has retained more or less Humidity in its Crystallization , or because the Tartar has more or less Impurities in it .
But if there be too much Tartar in the alcaline Liquor , after the Fermentation is over , filtrate the Liquor , and as it cools , the superfluous Tartar will fall to the Bottom .
After the Separation of the Tartar from the Liquor , evaporate the Lixivium by a gentle Heat , set it in a cool Place to crystallize , and you will have very fine Crystals .
If the Liquor be evaporated a little too much , there will be no Crystals of Salt formed , but the Liquor will be converted into a hard transparent Mass , not unlike Glue .
But if you dissolve this Mass again , you may make it crystallize , as upon dissolving Seignette 's Salt .
This Salt purges very well , from one to two Ounces dissolved in a Quart of Water .
Such is the Discovery of this Salt , which has hitherto passed for an Arcanum .
We have likewise his crystallized alcaline Salt , which is the Salt of Kali , that dissolves not in the Air .
I am actually at work in perfecting this Salt , in examining that of Kali , and comparing it with Borax .
From this last I extract Glauber 's Salt , by mixing it with Oil of Vitriol .
The Mixture of Borax ~ with Oil of Vitriol , ~ 3j upon Sublimation gives me the Sal sedativum described by M. Homberg ; and the Residue exposed to a strong Fire affords Glauber 's Salt .
I have found out a Method to shorten this Operation ; for instead of subliming this Salt , I get it by Crystallization in light foliated Laminae .
This Salt , whether sublimated or crystallized , has the Property of dissolving in Spirit of Wine ; and if you set this Spirit of Wine on Fire , its Flame is green .
Spirit of Wine has no Effect on Borax ; the Oil of Vitriol , digested with Spirit of Wine , communicates no Greenness to its Flame : therefore it is requisite that the Borax should be united to an Acid , in order to produce this green Flame .
POSTSCRIP T. I Send you a Specimen of Salt made of Crystals of Tartar and Lime Water , which Messrs. Gross and Duhamel , two Members of our Academy , have prepared ; to which I join Crystals of Seignette 's Salt , that M. Bolduc and I have made separately .
You will also find some Sal Sedativum made by Crystallization , which crystallizes in a peculiar Manner .
This Operation is performed with Messrs of Borax , and ~ 3i of concentrated Oil of Vitriol , the most fixed and weighty that can be had .
The Borax is put into a Glass Retort , the Oil of Vitriol is poured on it , and then half an Ounce of common Water .
This Mixture being exposed to a Fire gradually increased , after the Phlegm has passed off , and even while it is passing , there rises Flowers , or a volatile Salt in very beautiful foliated Laminae ; some of which melt by the Heat of the Fire .
After the Operation , the finest of these Flowers , which are round the Neck of the Retort , are gathered ; and those that are grey , are thrown upon the remaining Mass : which Mass is dissolved in Water , filtrated , and evaporated slowly .
Sometimes , even without Evaporation , the shining Talcous Laminae are to be seen in the Liquor .
In 24 Hours the Liquor is poured off these Laminae : they are washed in fair Water , set to drain , and then to dry in a Stove .
If these Crystals do not calcine in the Stove , or in the Sun , it is a Sign there is nothing crystallized but the Sal neutrum : if they do calcine , it is a Sign that there is some Glauber 's Salt mixed .
And then this Salt must be dissolved again in hot Water , and recrystallized .
No body before me has thought of extracting this Salt by Crystallization : It was always sublimed hitherto .
Printed for W. INNYS and R. MANB Y , Printers to the Royal Society , at the West-End of St. Pauls .

