]\gt ; .
THE PRESIDBNT in the Chair .
The esents received were laid on the table , and thanks for them .
The following Papel'S were read : I. " " The Effects of Temperature on the Electromotive Force and Resistance of Batteries By WILLIAM HENRY PREECE .
F.R.S. , Received February 8 , 1883 .
It is well known that heat influences the conditions of galvanic elements so as to vary the strength of the currents generated by them in those parts of the circuits connecting their poles .
In 1840 De la Rive*found that the ction of a galvanic pair was accelerated when it was put into hot fluid instead of cold fluid , and he attributed the result to increased chemical affinity .
Faraday repeated De la Rive 's experiment , but he , on the other hand , attributed the result to improved conductivity in the liquid , and he showed that the eifect was not due either to motion , to action , or to thermo-electric action , or indeed to any 1ncrease in the electromotive force .
Daniell , also , found an increased current due to inoreased temperature .
According to him , one of his elements was nearly trebled in strength when raised to F. He ibuted the effect to the increased energy of the affinity .
Said he , " " Changes of temperature even have a marked influence upon the working of the voltaic battery , and must not be neglected in nice comparative experiments J. B. cooks made careful observations on the chemical affinity in a * ' ' Ann. Chem 1828 , xxxvii , p. 242 .
" " Researches 17th Series , SS 1925-26 .
' ' Chemical Philosophy p. 506 .
S " " PhiL Mag 1861 , p. 95 .
1883 .
] the Electromotive Force and Resistance o.f Batteries .
49 galvanic ] , and indicated the error due to changes of temperature , but he remarked , " " These affinities do not appear to be affected by any changes of temperature between ranges of and 212 Crova investigated the effects of heat on the electromotive force alone , and hd showed ( 1 ) the electromotive force of a Daniell 's element decreases regularly with an increase of temperature ; ( 2 ) that the eIectromotive force of a Grove 's element increases with temperature ; ( 3 ) that the electromotive force of a single-fluid element of the Smee type is independent of the variation of temperature .
In 1862 Mr. am Mr. James Dixon took advantage of the influence of heat to take , out a patent for hot batteries , and he suggested the employment of these batteries for the production of the electric light .
In the same year ( 1862 ) Lindig* indicated a ariation with changes of temperature .
In 1870 Bleekrode made some further experiments in the same direction .
In 1872 Mr. Latimer showed that the romotive force of his standard cell varied inversely with temperature about per cent. for each degree Centigrade .
In 1881 HerwigS investigated the subject carefully , and showed that polarisation diminishes with temperature .
He found that resistance decreased markedly with temperature , and that this was more evident with small electromotive forces than with powerful electromotive forces .
In 1878 the in investigating the peculial .
action of Byrne 's pneumatic battery , showed that its exceptional power was due to abnormal formation of heat in its interior , and that this acted , principally , in reducing the internal resistance .
As bearing indirectly also upon this question it be noted that Becquerel , Paalzow , and Kohlrausch and Nippoldt examined the influence of heat upon the resistance of electrolytes , and showed that it invariably diminished as the temperature rose .
This was determined by them for various solutions .
Now it is to be observed that in all these no one has quantitatively separated the influence of temperature upon electro motive force from its influence upon internal resistance .
It is quite evident , from an examination of Ohm 's law , that the variation in the strength of current can be the resuIt either of a variation the eIectromotive force alone or in a variation of the resistance alone , or in an unequal variation of both together .
The numerous discre* ' ' Phil. Mag 1861 I , p. 408 .
" " Phil. Mag 1870 , p. 310 .
" " Phil. Trans 1873 .
S " " Ann. Phys B. XI , H. 4 , No. 12 , p. 661 .
" " Proc. Soc. Telegraph Engineers 1878 .
VOL. XXXY .
50 Mr. W. H. Preece .
ffects of Temperature on [ Feb. 22 , pancies that have appeared in the measurements of the behaviour of the Daniell 's cell , as well as the erratic performance of batteries used for telegraphic purposes in various exposed positions , have long attracted the attention of the author to the necessity of a more careful enquiry into this matter than has been made hitherto .
In fact , all the observations that have hitherto been made are positively useless , from the simple fact that no record has been kept of the independent variations of the internal resistance and the electromotive force in any measurable or comparable manner .
Special apparatus was made , and the following method of experimenting was decided upon .
The cell to be experimented upon was placed inside cylindrical copper vessel about 10 inches high and about 8 inches diameter ; water was poured into the vessel to within an inch of the top of the cell , and the lid of the vessel was put on .
This lid had four holes , two ( insulated from the rest of the vessel ) to receive the electrodes of the cell , and the other two to allow thermometers to be plunged into the liquid or ]iquids in the cell without emoving the cover or lid .
The water in the vessel and the cell in the water were then heated by means of a gas-burner placed underneath the vesseI , and the eIectromotive force and the resistance of the cell were determined at various stages of the heating ; tvhile the emperature of the cell was observed at the time of each experiment , the liquid or liquids in the cell were stirred up from time to time so as to obtain , as far as possible , the true temperature of the cell .
The cells experimented upon were the Daniel ] , bichromate , and Leclanche ; those in general use , especially for telegraph purposes .
The Daniell cell consists of a pol.ous pot , containing a solution of copper sulphate , and placed in a stoneware vessel , containing a soIution of zinc sulphate .
In the porous pot is immersed a copper plate , bent so as to form a hollow cylinder , to which is soldered a copper wire , which consbitutes one pole of the cell .
A zinc plate , also bent into a cylindrical form , is placed in the outer cell , and has a copper wire soldered to it , constituting the other pole of the cell .
The zinc is not amaIgamated .
Two forms of the bichromate cell were experimented on , the ome being that known as Fuller 's bichromate cell , and the other that known as single-fluid bichromate cell .
The double-fluid cell ( Fuller 's ) consists of a stoneware jar of a quart size .
Inside this is placed a porous pot , in which the zinc is placed ; the negative plate , which is of carbon , is placed in the outer jar ; the zinc is cast in the form of a short truncated cone .
It is cast on a stout copper wire , both al.e well amalgamated ; and the plate is surmounted by a terminal .
In the outer jar is placed 3 ozs .
of bichromate of potassium and 4 ozs .
of sulphuric acid .
In the inner pot is placed 2 ozs .
of mercury .
Both 1883 .
] the Electromotive Force and Resistance of Bat .ies .
51 are then filled up to within 2 inches of the top with a weak acid solution ( one part of sulphuric acid to nine parts of water ) .
The slng 1fl bichromate cell is no more than the cell just described , in which are placed nothing but a rod of amalgamated zinc and a plate of carbon , each forming a pole of the cell .
The Leclanche cell is made thus:\mdash ; Into a glass jar a solution of the ordinary commercial is poured .
A zinc rod or plate into which a connecting tinned iron wlre been cast , is then placed in the so lon , an a lution and a iate of carbon surrounded by a mixture of broken gas-carbon or coke and peroxide of less , is fix fixed in a small porous pot a the top of the jar .
To make an attachment for the terminal , the top of the carbon plate is capped with lead , which makes good contact with the rbon and is not liable to : attacked by lmonia .
The carbon plate is then dipped in melted paraffin , to fill up its pores and to check the ascenslon of the liquid by capillary action .
Lastly , the wire , the top of the zlnc rod , and the lead cap of the carbon plate are covered with pitch , ozokerit , marine glue , or some other compound to protect them from local action .
The results of the experiments are given 1n the tables below , in which the eIectromotive force ( e ) is given in terms of that of a Daniell cell ( a standard cell ) in good order and at about C. , and the resistance is given in B.A. units .
The experiments were cted for me by Mr. R. Shida with great care and patience .
Of the Tables I , II , and III , which contain the resuIts of the experiments on the Daniell cell , the first two tables refer to the case where the solution of copper sulphate was saturated at all temperatures ( that is to say , the crystals of copper sulphate were always present in the solution ) and the solution of zinc sulphate was kept the same , or nearly the same , strength that solution saturated about ; Table III refers to the case where both copper sulphate amd zinc sulphate soIutions were kept unaltered or nearly so in strength during the experiment ( that is to say , they were both saturated at about Table contains the results for the double-fluid bichromate ; Table those for the single-fluid bichromate ; and Table those for the eclanch ( I. ) THE HiLECTRONOTIVE FORCE .
The Daniell Cell.\mdash ; Tables I , II , and III show that , as the cell was he , ated up from a comparatively low temperature to a higher and higher temperature , the electromotive force of the Daniell cell decreased rather abruptly at first , but more gradually afterwards , until , at a certain temperature it began increase amd continued to do so till the temperature attained that of boing point of water ; but that ( which is rather singular ) the eleetromotive force remained unaltered , or nearly so , while the cell was being cooled down from C. to lower and lower temperature .
These peculiar results ( together with 52 Mr. W. H. Preece .
Effects of Temperature on [ Feb. 22 , the fact that whereas the temperature of the zinc cell rose faster than that of the copper cell while being heated up , the former cooled faster than the latter while cooled down from a high temperature [ say tend to indicate that the diminution in the electromotive force of the cell at the beginning of the experiment was greatly , if not chiefly , due to the thermo-electric action which must have been set up in the circuit .
The Bichrornate Cell.\mdash ; It will be seen from the Tables IV and V that the electromotive force of the bichromate ( both the doubleflnid and the single-fluid cell ) , diminished regularly when the temperature was made higher and higher , and increased regularly when temperature was made lower and lower .
The regular diminution by rise and regular augmentation by fal ] of temperature of the electromotive force ( at least when the range of temperature was between C. and was very much greater in the case of the fluid bichromate than in the case of the double-fluid bichromate .
In the case of the first , eIectromotive force at 10 C. was as much as about 6 per cent. lower than that at about C. ; whereas in the oase of the second , the electromotive force at 10 C. was only about per cent. lower than at C. The Leclanche Cell.\mdash ; The Table shows that the electromotive force of the Leclanche varied , when the temperatul.e was so slightly , if at all , that it was difficult to observe the variation by the method used .
( II .
) THE INIERNAL RESISTANCE .
The resuIts obtained for the resistances of the various kinds of cells are more striking and more interesting than those for the electromotive force , as will be quite evident from the tables .
They will , however , be understood more readily from the graphical representations of the results by means of curves ( in the Diagrams I , II , and III ) in which the proportional to the resistances in B.A. units , and the ordinates to the temperatures in degroes Centigrade .
The Daniell Cell.\mdash ; The curves in the Diagram I represent the resuIts for the Daniell , the curve ABCDE corresponding to the case ( Table II ) in which the copper sulphate solution was kept saturated at all temperatures , while the zinc sulphate soIution was kept constant in strength , and the curve abcde corresponding to the case ( Table III ) in which both solutions were kept unaItered in strength during the experiments .
The directions of the arrows indicate the order of the experiments .
For instance , in the curve ABCDE the portion represents the resuIt obtained while cell was being heated up from about C. to nearly the boiling point of water , the portion BC obtained while the cell thus heated up was being cooled down from C. to about C. ; and , lastly , the portion DE that 83 .
] the Electromotive Force und Resistance of Batteries .
53 bained in cooling the cell from C. to nearly so low a temperaas the freezing point of water .
A very similar explanation plies to the curve abode .
DIAGRAM I. The rc.sults thus laid down by means of the curves ABCDE and present many points of interest .
These curves clearly show : .
That when a Daniell cell is heated from a low temperature , say C. , up to a high temperature , say C. , the resistance of the cell decreases rather abruptly at first , but more gradually afterwards , faUing from to ohm , or more than one-third . .
That when the cell thus heated up is cooled down , the resistance 54 Mr. .
H. Preece .
Effects of Temperature on [ Feb. 22 , increases , but increases at a greater rate than it decreased while being heated ; in other words , the resistance of a Daniell cell at any temperature ( at least between C. and C. ) is smaller before it is heated up to a high temperature afterwal.ds , provided the heating and cooling be done not very slowly . .
That if the cell thus cooled down be left undisturbed at a certain temperature , the resistance of the cell gets less and less , till , at last , at the end of a certain period which will from about hours ) it gets down to the value which it had before being heated up at all . .
And , lastly , that the resistance of a Daniell cell is considerably less when the solution of the copper sulphate is more concentrated than when it is less concentrated , at any temperature , and under otherwise exactly similar circumstances .
The Bichromate Cell.\mdash ; The results for the bichromate are not quite so remarkable , nor are they so interesting as those the Daniell cell , as will be seen on comparing the curves in the rram I with those in the Diagram II , but the fall of resistance nevertheless very striking .
In the case of the double-fluid bichromate the curve HK of resistance obtained while the cell was being heated up , dffiers so slightly from the curve KL obtained while it was being cooled down , that the one is hardly distinguishable from the other .
The differences in fact may be attributed more to errors of observation than to anything else .
Yet , if there should be any difference in the resistance in the two cases , it is one opposite in character to that found in the case of the Daniell cell .
The probability of the existence of this difference , as indicated by the curve HKL , is supported by the results shown by means of the curve , for the single-fluid bichromate cell .
Every point of the portion of the curve obtained while heating the cell up , lies con- siderably higher than the corresponding point in the portion obtained while cooling it down ; that is to say , the resistance of the single-fluid bichromate cell at any temperature is greater before than after it has been heated up The Very Ittle remains to be said of the curve PQR in the Diagram III , which represents the resuIts for the Leclanche cell .
The general character of the curve PQR bears a strong resemblance to the curve HKL ; in other ords , the resistance of the Leclanche diminishes with the rise and increases with the fall of temperature at nearly the same rate as the resistance of the doublefluid bichromate cell does .
And , moreover , it is a matter of difficulty to say with certainly , in the case of the Leclancbe as in the case of the double-fluid bichromate , whether or not ffie curve of resistance obtained while being heated up coincides with the curve of obtained while being cooled down , because the part RQ is so nearly coincident with the part PQ of the curve PQR , that any slight errors 83 .
] the Electromotive Force and Besistance of Batteries .
55 tho observations may have caused the non-coincidence between , two parts .
It follows from these experiments that changes of temperature do not practically affect electromotive forces , bub that they materially affect the internal resistances , of cells .
Faraday 's observation is fully confirmed , while Daniell 's mistake is easily understood if he employed , as he probably did , a galvanometer of low resistance .
It also follows that of the various forms of batteries in practical use the Daniell is most seriously influenced by variations in temperature , and that in all expeliments with that battery , either the tempeature must be kept constant , or frequent measurements should be taken of its internal resistance and allowance made the variation .
Mr. W. H. Preece .
Effects of Temperature on [ Feb. 22 , Received February 20 , 1883 .
Note.\mdash ; The method adopted to measure the electromotive force and the resistance of the different cells was very simple , and , as it is believed to be very accurate and free from any of the disturbing influences dne to polarisation , a description of it may be useful .
The charge or discharge of a small condenser through a galvanometer of comparatively low resistance is an accurate measure of the electromotive force present , for the current is practically instantaneous , therefore the whole quantity present acts as a balista upon the needle .
In the figure is a condenser of 3-microfarad capacity , a sensitive reflecting galvanometer , the cell to be measured , a shunt of mall resistance , and and .
simple keys .
The condenser is first charged with a standard Daniell cell and the charge deflection ( D ) noted .
The standard cell is then replaced by the cell to be examined , and the charge deflection ) produced by it noted .
The key is then depressed , which had been previously depressed to charge the condenser , being still held down ) , and the cell is thus shunted through .
The electromotive force affecting the condenser is thus reduced and a discharge is noted\mdash ; the deflection being in the reverse direction .
Now if be the resistance of the cell under test , then This particular mode of measuring was devised by Mr. H. R. Kempe and modified by Mr. Munro .
Condensers are much used in telegraphy for measuring electromotive foroes .
[ Vide Kempe 's ' ' Handbook of Testing p. 195 .
] 1883 .
] the Electromotive Force and Resistance of Batteries .
1883 .
] the Electromotive Force and Resistance of Batteries . . .

