4 .
" Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" Atmospheric Magnetism , continued .
Twenty-seventh Series .
By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received November 19 , 1850 .
In order to obtain an experimental representative of the action of the atmosphere when heated above or cooled below the average temperature , the author employed a ring helix of covered copper wire , through which an electric current was passed .
The helix was about one inch and a half in diameter , and having the well-known system of magnetic forces , was placed with its magnetic axis parallel to a free needle : when its position was such that a needle within the ring would point with the north end downward , then the effect in deflecting the surrounding lines of force of the earth was considered as like that of a relatively paramagnetic mass of air ; and when its position was reversed , its action was representative of that of a heated or relatively diamagnetic mass of air .
Bringing this helix into the vicinity of small magnetic needles , suspended either freely , or so as to show declination or inclination , the planes of action or indifference as regards the power of deflecting the lines of force and the needle were observed .
When the needle can move only in one plane , there are four quadrants , formed ( in the case of the declination needle ) by the intersection of the planes of the magnetic equator and meridian .
When in these planes there is no deflection at the needle , but when in the quadrants there is , and in opposite directions in the neighbouring quadrants .
As the lines of force are held in and by the earth , so these experiments were repeated with a needle in near vicinity to a magnet , and the difference of effect is pointed out : then the extent to which these results are applicable to those of the earth is considered , and their utility in guiding the inquirer .
The effect of heated air having been considered in the last paper , that of cold air is now taken up ; and after considering its action in causing a contraction or drawing together of the terrestrial lines of magnetic force , according to the principles of conduction before enunciated , the author considers generally where the regions of cold which travel round the earth every twenty-four hours will be in the northern and southern hemispheres , and how they will grow up and diminish in extent and importance as the sun moves north and south during the year .
After which he applies these considerations , and the results of the experiments with the ring helix , to the explication of the changes of the needle as they are given by observations at St. Petersburgh , Greenwich , Hobarton , Toronto , Cape of Good Hope , St. Helena and Singapore .
In doing this , he endeavours to explain the night action , the early morning effect , the contrary course of the needle for the same hours in different months , the difference of local time dependent on the distribution of land and water , the cumulative effect of preceding months , and the continual effect , especially in the tropical regions , of the higher temperature of the northern hemisphere above that of the south .
In all these points the author sees such an agreement between the natural results and those which are suggested by the assumed physical cause of the magnetic variations , as to give him a growing confidence in the truth of the views he has put forth .

