]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
SBCTION A.\mdash ; MATEBXATICAL AND PEYSICAL SCIBNCES .
Zonal of High Order in Terms of Bessel Functions .
By JOHN R. AIBHIY , , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1919 .
) The zonal harmonic , for large values of and small values of , is approximately given by the formula , where .
This result is easily derived from a consideration of Legendre 's equation , .
( 1 ) The first approximation of is , and substituting this value in ( 1 ) , the equation becomes , ( 2 ) of which a solution is , where , a result similar to the one discovered by Mehler , * .
( 3 ) The second solutions of ( 2 ) , Bessel functions of the second kind or Neumann functions , do not appear in the expression for .
Macdonald has given two formulae in terms of Bessel functions .
lf , ( 4 ) F. Mehler , ' Math. Annalen , ' vol. 5 , pp. 140-144 ( 1872 ) .
H. M. Macdonald , 'Proc .
London Math. Soc vol. 31 Old Series ) , p. 269 ( 1899 ) : ibid. , vol. ( New Series ) , pp. .
VOL. XOVI.\mdash ; A. Dr. J. R. Airey .
Zonal Harmonics of and . . .
, ( 5 ) whilst Lord Bayleigh* obtained the result , ( 6 ) in which and .
Further terms in the coefficients of and ) can be found without difficulty by successive approximations .
Equation ( 6 ) may be written .
( 7 ) Consequently , ( 8 ) and since equation ( 1 ) becomes .
( 9 ) Therefore ( 10 ) or , the dependent variable being changed to , ( 11 ) where the argument of the functions is Integrating ( 11 ) , we find .
( 12 ) Now .
It is easily seen that * Lord Rayleigh , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1916 , pp. 433-6 .
High Order in Terrns of Bessel Functions .
But and therefore Thus Hence .
( 14 ) From the recurrence formula , may be expressed in terms of and : the integrals now occurring on the right-hand side of ( 14 ) are and by parts , we get and therefore .
( 16 ) Since and , we find that and .
( 18 ) Dr. J. R. Airey .
lonal Harmonics of ' For the next approximation we obtain from ( 18 ) the value of as .
In this case this is substituted , we find eventually the value of , which now contains the term as well as rals having the roduct in the integrand .
But the former can be expressed in ternls of the latter .
Thus , rating by parts , or , generally , Consequently , the problem of finding depends upon the determination of the .
( 20 ) Also I .
( 21 ) But and therefore or , combining the results in ( 21 ) and ( 22 ) , High Order in of Bessel metions .
Applying this formula , making , 2 , 3 , , in succession , obtain I .
( 24 ) Finally , we reach the term / .
Thus Similarly , .
( 27 ) In the final step of each approximation , to obtain the value of it is necessary to evaluate integrals of the type and .
These integrals occur under the form Integrating the first of these integrals by parts , and knowing that we obtain result .
( 28 ) After further approximations , the expression for in terms of and is as follows:\mdash ; , ( 29 ) Dr. J. R. Airey .
Zonal Harmonics of where To calculate to six places of decimals , when is equal to or greater than 20 , only , and need to be tabulated .
The following tables have been constructed , giving these coefficients for each angle of the quadrant : High Order in Terms of Bessel 02142 02448 The formulae and tables are of course especially useful is a small angle .
They have been tested by computing for comparatively small Zonal rmonics in Terms of Bessel Functions .
values of and large values of .
Even in these extreme cases the results are correct to six places of decimals .
For the purposes of comparison , a short table of Ps ( ) has been computed , o ; iving in the second column the values of this function when the angle is large , both and being required in these calculations .
In the third column are the values calculated by Tallquist .
* . .
Calculated from ( 29 ) .
Tallquist 's values .
In the construction of table and were calculated from Meissel 's tables .
When exceeds and can be found to seven places of decimals from formulae derived from the addition theorem of these functions .
Tallquist , 'Acta Soc. Sc. Fennicae ' Helsingfors ) , vol. 33 , No. 4 , pp. .
Tables of for , 2 , 3 8 to ten places of decimals for each degree of the quadrant ; A. Lodge , Appendix to Lord Rayleigh 's paper , " " On Acoustic Shadow of a Sphere Tables of Zonal Harmouics for intervals in the value of from to , and , 2 , 3 20 to seven places of decimals , 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 203 , pp. 87-110 ' The Addition Theorem of Bessel Fumctions of Zero and Unit Orders ' Phil. Mag vol. 36 , September , 1918 .

