Continuation of Experiments for investigating the Cause of coloured concentric Rings , and other Appearances of a similar Nature .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read March 23 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 259 .
] In the former part of this paper the author had pointed out various methods of producing coloured rings between surfaces in contact , and had proved that no other surfaces are concerned in their formation ; and he now proceeds to show , that , by varying the figures of the surfaces , a corresponding change of the form of the rings will be observed .
As a spherical surface applied to a plane surface produces circular rings , so , when it is applied to a cylindrical surface , the rings become ellipses ; and when the cylinder is applied to a plane , the ellipses become straight lines , and irregular curves occasion irregularity in the form of the rings .
But Dr. Herschel is of opinion , that plane surfaces , applied to each other at any extremely small angle , cannot exhibit any such appearances of colour unless they are disfigured by unequal pressure .
The author next examines the circumstances of the prismatic blue bow observed by Newton , as the limit to the perfect reflection that occurs in the interior of a prism when light is much inclined to its surface ; and Dr. Herschel calls this the critical separation of the colours .
He also examines the prismatic red bow observable at the same critical inclination , when the transmitted light prevails over that which is reflected ; and remarks the change from red to blue , occasioned by changing the direction of the light .
The next phenomena observed are the coloured streaks that are produced adjacent to these bows when the reflecting surface of the prism is in contact with another surface ; the streaks being straight when the surfaces are plain , or curved , according to their different kind or degree of curvature .
In the experiments which follow , this effect of a surface in contact with the prism is employed as a criterion for distinguishing more clearly the acting surface .
Various more complicated appearances are next examined ; in which , by reason of second reflection , the origin of the bows is less distinct , or in which two bows may be seen at once from the particular form of the prism .
In the formation of bows , it is shown , that only one surface of the prism is concerned by roughening other surfaces , and by applying to them various glasses , without preventing the appearance of the bows .
Since the streaks which are seen beneath the blue bow , when a plane surface is in contact with a prism , contain all the prismatic colours , it is evident that the less refrangible , after having been transmitted , are reflected back by the contiguous surface , and then re-enter the prism .
Dr. Herschel next proceeds to delineate , from strict computation , the course of the several rays ; and , by a diagram drawn upon an enlarged scale , shows , that when light falls upon a pair of surfaces nearly in contact , and when single rays or small pencils are separated at regular intervals from each other , then the rays , which emerge , and after reflection re-enter the same surface , will also be separated so as to present streaky appearances , in some of which the order of the colours will differ from that in others , agreeably to observation .
With respect to the curvature of the prismatic bows , that manifestly depends upon the position of the eye , as the lines of equal incidence form a cone , of which the eye is apex ; and , accordingly , as the eye recedes from the prism , the bow becomes less curved , and for a small space will appear straight .
Dr. Herschel having remarked , when a plane surface is applied to a prism , that the appearance of the streaks that are seen in contact with the prismatic bow depends on what he has termed the critical separation of the rays , infers , that those rings of colours which are seen when a lens is laid upon a plane surface , depend also upon the same critical separation ; the lens being in this case considered as a prism bent round into a circular form .
The several points of resemblance in the circumstances under which the bow-streaks from a prism , and the rings from contact of lenses , appear or disappear , or change their form or their colours , are next compared ; and are considered by the author as decisive proof that each arise from the same critical separation at the boundary of prismatic reflection ; and if the mere difference of refrangibility of the several colours is sufficient to account for the phenomena , it is inferred , that no alternate fits of easy reflection and easy transmission really exist as original properties in the rays of light .

