1875 .
] On the Development of Girripcdia .
II .
u On the Development of Lepas fascicularis and the ' zoea3 of Cirripedia .
" By R. von Willemoes-Suhm , Ph. D. , Naturalist to the * Challenger* Expedition .
Communicated by Prof. C. Wyville Thomson , E.R.S. Received September 28 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The materials for this paper were obtained during the ' Challenger 's * cruise from Japan to the Sandwich Islands in 35 ' lat. N. , when very curious Nauplii , some of them 12 millims. long , were caught , which were identified at once as belonging to the nauplial form to which Dohrn has given the generic name of " Archizoea ?
In the daytime these larvae were scarcer , but at night so common that large bottles could be filled with them .
The question ( which had been left open by Dohrn ) to which cirriped these extraordinary Nauplii might belong was solved when large quantities of Lepas fascicular were seen passing the ship for more fhar ; a week .
It was then possible to keep these barnacles alive and to bring up in our globes such stages of the large Nauplii as had also been taken on the surface .
Then , again , when catching the surface-animals , free-swimming pupse were found , which were seen to settle on dead Velellae and assume the form of Lepas , so that the whole development of this species could be worked out .
Reasons are given why this barnacle belongs to the species Lepas fascicularis ; and a description is given of some parts of the mouth , which slightly differ from those described by Darwin in the same species .
I. Development of the egg and of the youngest Nauplius .
The conclusions to which an investigation into the development of the ovum , and into the changes which occur in it after its formation up to the time when the Nauplius comes out , has led are the following : 1 .
The youngest eggs , seen in the caeca of the ovarian tubes , are transparent cells with nucleus and nucleolus .
2 .
The germinal vesicle , as well as the ovum , grows by taking up elements of yelk .
3 .
All the ova found in the ovary of a barnacle are in the same stage of development .
When mature ova are to be seen in the tube , small undeveloped ova may be seen here and there in the caeca , which act very likely as mother cells for further breeding-purposes .
4 .
The spermatozoa , when fully developed , are simple hair-like filaments .
5 .
The mature ovum , as contained in the breeding-lamellae , shows no trace of the vesicula germinalis nor of its nucleolus .
Some highly refractive granules may be seen here and there among the yelk-globules .
The ovum is oval in form .
6 .
The segmentation is very irregular , but seems to be complete .
Dr. It .
von Willemoes-Suhm on the [ Dec. 9 , 7 .
As soon as the segmentation begins , large transparent cells are seen separating themselves from the yelk-globules , and increasing in number as the segmentation goes on .
8 .
These cells form a blastoderm round the yelk .
No primitive streak could be seen ; but its presence is not denied , as the object is not favourable for these observations .
9 .
The blastoderm loses its cellular structure and gives way to a granular skin .
On both sides of a longitudinal groove three pairs of appendages begin to be visible .
10 .
The test of the ovum extends as the embryo develops .
The latter is very likely still enveloped by a thin blastodermic cuticle , which is clearly visible at the ends of tail and antennae , when it comes out .
11 .
The development of the Nauplius in the ovum of this Lepas shows very much the same stages as those described by Buchholz in Balanus improvisus .
II .
The Nauplius stages .
1 .
The Nauplius of Lepas fascicularis has , when leaving the egg , a length of 0*35 millim. It moults at least five times , and has before throwing off for the last time the Nauplial appendages a length of 12 millims. 2 .
The first stage of the Nauplius has been seen by Darwin , who describes it , and also by Burmeister .
3 .
After the first two moults the Nauplius gets a large dorsal spine and enters a series of stages , one of which has been described in another Lepas by Dohrn as Archizoea gigas .
4 .
Reasons are given why Archizoea gigas is nearly certain to be the Nauplius of Lepas australis , a species closely allied to Lepas fascicularis , and representing it south of the equator .
Archizoea gigas was caught , together with the large Cyprides of Lepas australis , during the 'Challenger 's ' antarctic cruise .
5 .
The tail and the caudal spine of the newly hatched Nauplius are pushed in like the tubes of a telescope , and covered by a thin cuticle , which may be the blastodermic one .
The same envelops also the lateral horns , but has not been seen at the end of the appendages .
The carapax is as yet quite smooth , with the lateral horns hanging down .
6 .
After the first moult the tail and its spines , which have been pushed out , have a considerable length , and the lateral horns are erected .
Only a single pair of small spines is to be seen on the carapax .
The glands inside are unicellular .
7 .
The Nauplius after the second moult has , besides the dorsal spine , a series of processes all round the edges of the carapax , to which the unicellular glands send their ducts .
Besides the oesophagus , two glands , which formerly were indicated by an agglomeration of cells , become visible .
These glands are very likely those which , in the Cypris stage , 1875 .
] Development of terminate in the sucker of the antennae , and are known under the name of cement-glands .
Mouth and anus are present .
One pair of movable spines on the tail .
First " Archizoea stage .
" 8 .
Length of Nauplius in the fourth stage 6 millims. Three or four movable spines on the tail , with the six of the next stage shining through the chitinous coverings .
The glands of the carapax are in connexion with nerves , and present a large network .
No nerve-terminations on the lateral horns nor on the feelers .
All the processes of the carapax , as well as the lateral horns , have openings at the top for letting out the secretions of the glands .
9 .
Length of Navplius in the fifth and last stage 12 millims. Six movable spines on the tail .
Large masses of fat are assembling in the carapax , and the shell is forming underneath it .
The first pair of appendages develops inside the antennae of the Cypris , the sucker being formed in the fourth joint , the second of the future antenna .
Large compound eyes become visible on both sides of the central eye .
10 .
The carapax of the Nauplius has now a diameter of 2 millims. The appendages are very much like those of Archizoea gigas , in which Dohrn , however , has taken the third pair of appendages for the second , and the second for the third .
11 .
A specimen of the supposed larva of Lepas australis ( Dohm 's Archizoea gigas ) is figured in the stage just before the metamorphosis into the Cypris stage takes place ; the two large compound eyes have already developed .
III .
The Cypris or pupa stage .
1 .
The Cypris of the Atlantic , C.fascic , has been already described by Claus , who has established the homology of its parts with the Copepods .
, 2 .
Darwin has described the very large Cypris of Lepas australis ( length 3 millims. ) , which is in every way similar to that of the present species\#151 ; a further proof of the probability of the suggestion that Dohrn 's large Nauplii are the larvae of that species .
3 .
Our Cypris has a length of 1*3 millim. \#166 ; 4 .
A description is given of the antennae with the suckers and their glands , the development of which from the glands in the labrum has been mentioned already .
The parts of the mouth ( small labrum and three pairs of maxillae and maxillipeds ) and the natatory feet , as well as the caudal appendages with the anus at their base , are figured and described .
The organs of sense , the digestive organs , and the shell-gland , which is now very conspicuous , offer scarcely any thing that has not been seen already by Darwin and Claus in the Cyprides of the different species of Lepas .
Dr. R. von Willemoes-Sulim on the [ Dec. 9 , IY .
The metamorphosis of the Cypris into the young Lepas .
1 .
The pupae are chiefly caught at the very surface of the sea , where they swarm round the dead Velellae , on which they settle .
They rarely take to a colony of old barnacles .
2 .
Soon after settling the new cirri are formed underneath the natatory feet , the head grows out , the eyes are absorbed , and under the ( 7y^\gt ; m-shell the primordial valves of the young Lepas appear , which persist during its whole life .
The Cyjpm-shell , with the old natatory feet , is then thrown off .
3 .
The young Lepas begins to form the complete shell , and fastens itself more and more by the copious secretions of its glands , which run through the outdrawn and enlarged head into the fixing-antennae .
4 .
The cirri of the young Lepas develop a larger number of joints , the shell begins to lose its transparency , the body inside turns over a little , as has been described by Darwin , and the young Lepas is complete .
Conclusion .
1 .
As the young stages of the Lepadidae are pelagic , it is only possible to work out their development at sea , and there at certain-seasons .
We found only onee before the large Nauplii of Lepas australis .
The development of no one of the Lepadidae has hitherto been known in full ; and it seems that even the adult larvae of our commonest barnacles , such as L. anatifera and L. aserifera , are as yet unknown .
2 .
The Nauplius stages of Lepas fascicularis have not a different morphological value from those of Balanus and other genera ; therefore there is no reason for giving to this stage a particular name .
The term " Archizoea " may remain as a remembrance of Dohm 's interesting discovery , but cannot be applied to the larvae of other Lepadidae .
H.M.S. * Challenger , ' Honolulu , July 28 , 1875 .
III .
" Preliminary Remarks on the Development of some Pelagic Decapods/ * By R. von Willemoes-Suhm , Ph. D. , Naturalist to the ' Challenger * Expedition .
Communicated by Prof. C. Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. Received September 28 , 1875 .
Since we left Australia I have investigated the metamorphoses of some Crustacea which have been constantly caught by us on the surface of the tropical and subtropical parts of the Pacific .
Though these investigations will be continued , I have now arrived at certain results which I think will not be uninteresting to zoologists .
The genera to which these remarks refer are Amphion , Serg , and Leucifer .
Amphion Reynaudi has been on our lists as an animal " incertce sedis " ( Milne-Edwards ) for nearly forty years , until Dohrn proved that a full-

