IV .
" On the Contact of Conics with Surfaces .
" By WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , F.R.S. Received February 16 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) It is well known that at every point of a surface two tangents , called principal tangents , may be drawn having three-pointic contact with the surface , i. e. having an intimacy exceeding by one degree that generally enjoyed by a straight line and a surface .
The object of the present paper is to establish the corresponding theorem respecting tangent conics , viz. that " at every point of a surface ten conics may be drawn having sixpointic contact with the surface ; " these may be called Principal Tangent Conics .
In this investigation I have adopted a method analogous to that employed in my paper " On the Sextactic Points of a Plane Curve " ( Phil. 264 [ Mar. 10 , Trans. vol. clv .
p. 653 ) ; and as I there , in the case of three variables , introduced a set of three arbitrary constants in order to comprise a group of expressions in a single formula , so here , in the case of four variables , I introduce with the same view two sets of four arbitrary constants .
If these constants be represented by a , F , y , , a ' , F ' , y ' , 8 ' , I consider the conic of five-pointic contact of a section of the surface made by the plane w--z'= 0 , where w=aox+y+yz+ t , and zw'=-c'x+3'y+y'z+-'t , and k is indeterminate ; and then proceed to determine k , and thereby the azimuth of the plane about the line w= 0 , zr'=0 , so that the contact may be sixpointic .
The formulae thence arising turn out to be strictly analogous to those belonging to the case of three variables , except that the arbitrary quantities cannot in general be divided out from the final expression .
In fact , it is the presence of these quantities which enables us to determine the position of the plane of section , and the equation whereby this is effected proves to be of the degree 10 in : 't'=k , and besides this of the degree 12n-27 in the coordinates x , y , z , t ( n being the degree of the surface ) , giving rise to the theorem above stated .
Beyond the question of the principal tangents , it has been shown by Clebsch and Salmon that on every surface Ua curve may be drawn , at every point of which one of the principal tangents will have a fourpointic contact .
And if n be the degree of U , that of the surface S intersecting U in the curve in question will be 1 ln--24 .
Further , it has been shown that at a finite number of points the contact will be five-pointic .
The number of these points has not yet been completely determined ; but Clebsch has shown ( Crelle , vol. lviii .
p. 93 ) that it does not exceed n(lln-24 ) ( 14n-30 ) .
Similarly it appears that on every surface a curve may be drawn , at every point of which one of the principal tangent conics has a seven-pointic contact , and that at a finite number of points the contact will become eight-pointic .
But into the discussion of these latter problems I do not propose to enter in the present communication .

