]\gt ; VI .
BAKERIAN .\mdash ; Series Lines in Spark ectra .
A. FOWLER , F.lt .
S. , Assistant Professor of Physics , Irnperial College , South sington .
MS .
received \mdash ; Lccture delivcred Apri12 , 1914 .
[ PLATE 3 .
] CONTENTS .
Section .
1 .
Introdnctory . . . . . .
226 2 .
Wave-lengths of the " " 4481\ldquo ; series of magnesium . . . . .
228 3 .
Formulae for the Mg " " 4481 ' ) series . . . . .
230 4 .
The Doublet series of calcinm , strontium , and barium . . .
233 5 .
The Doublet system of magnesium . . . . . . . . .
239 6 .
A new system of magnesium doublets . . . . . . . . .
242 7 .
Relation between the " " 4481\ldquo ; and the new series . . . . . . . . . .
8 .
The Principal series of the new doublet system 245 9 .
Relation between the two systems of doublets .
10 .
Combination lines and series of magne , sium . . .
251 11 .
General comparison of Mg , Ca , Sr , Ba . . .
254 12 .
The spectra of hydrogen and helium . . . . .
13 .
Enhanced lines in relation to BOHR'S theory 14 .
Summary . . . . .
263 APPENDIX . . . . .
264 Description of plate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
266 LIST 0F TABLES .
I. \mdash ; The " " 4481\ldquo ; Series of Magnesium .
II.\mdash ; Less Refrangible components of " " 4481\ldquo ; Series .
III.\mdash ; Calcium Doublets .
IV.\mdash ; Strontium Doublets .
.\mdash ; Magnesinm Wide Doublets .
\mdash ; Magnesium Widc evised Data .
\mdash ; New ) Doublets of Magnesium .
VIII .
cries of ' ' F.P.\ldquo ; Doublets .
IX.\mdash ; Principal Series of Wide Doublets ( Preliminary ) .
X.\mdash ; Corrected Principal Series of Wide Donblets .
XI.\mdash ; The " " F.P. " " Doublet System of -numbers ' ' XII.\mdash ; bIagnesium Combination Scries A. XIII.\mdash ; Magnesium Combination Series B. XIV .
4686\ldquo ; Series of Proto-helium .
XV.\mdash ; The " " Pickering\ldquo ; Series .
XVI.\mdash ; Enhanced Lines of Magnesium .
VOL. CCXIV . .
2 Publislod separately , July S1 Introductory .
THE classical work of RYDBERG , and that of KAYSER and RUNG , dealt mainly with series lines in spectra which are developed in the flame or electric arc , or in vacuum tubes with discharges of moderate intensity .
The lines to be discussed in the present communication are some of those which belong to the class of enhanced lines as defined by LOCKYER ; that is , they are relatively intensified in passing from arc to spark conditions .
In considering these lines it is necessary to take account of the fact that their behaviour in the arc is different for different elements .
At least three classes may be recognised:\mdash ; ( I. ) Enhanced lines like the and lines of calcium , which are well developed in the ordinary arc ; ( II .
) Lines which only appear with small intensities in the arc , such as the enhanced lines of iron ; ( III .
) Lines which do not appear in the ordinary arc ( except very locally near the poles ) , but are strongly developed under spark conditions , as in the case of the well-known magnesium line at Until very recently the only evidence that enhanced lines may belong to series was that afforded by RUNG and PASCHEN'S observations of the spectra of magnesium , calcium , strontium , barium , and radium , under the influence of a magnetic field .
In the case of each of these elements , three pairs of lines of Class I. were observed , and though no series formulae could be calculated for them , the magnetic resolutions proved that one pair belonged to the Principal series , another to the Sharp , and the third to the Diffuse series .
Further discussion of these series has become possible the valuable work of in the Schumanm region , published in 1912 .
The present investigation was undertaken in connection with the new series of lines which were produced in 1912 by passing strong condensed discharges through helium tubes containing hydrogen as an impurity .
* These lines , of which the strongest is at , are of considerable importance in celestial spectroscopy because of their occurrence in the spectra of some of the nebulae , and in stars which are generally regarded as representing the earliest stages of stellar condensation .
One of the series , only feebly visible , was in apparent agreement with a series of lines first observed in Puppis by , and attributed to hydrogen because of their simple relation to the Balmer hydrogen series .
The other was a strong series , which included the lines assigned by RYDBERG to the Principal series of hydrogen from analogy with the spectra of the alkali metals .
In addition to the RYDBERG lines , however , the " " 4686\ldquo ; series included intermediate lines , which the then recognised formulae suggested was a second Principal series related in a simple manner to the first .
As the new lines could not be from hydrogen alone , and in consideration of the occurrence of lines not anticipated by RYDBERG , it was soon felt that further inquiry should be made as to the value of the numerical evidence on which their assignment to hydrogen was chiefly 'hIonthly Notices , R.A.S. , ' vol , 73 , p. 62 ( December , 1912 ) .
PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
founded .
A search for other series of similar character was therefore undertaken , in the hope that some generalisation with regard to such series be arrived at .
The lnode of production of the " " 4686 " " lines suggested spark spectra as the most promising source of such series , and , shortly afterwards , experiments on magnesium yielded some new lines of that element which were obviously associated with the spark line 4481 in series of the kind looked for .
No satisfactory evidence of relation to other series of magnesium lines , however , was then obtained , and it seemed possible that both the " " 4686 " " and the " " 4481\ldquo ; series were of a new type , having no necessarily simple relation to other known series in the respective spectra .
* The lines of the " " 4686 " " and the associated series have since become of increased importance , in connection with theories of the constitution of the atom , through the theoretical invsstigatio1ls of Dr. BOHR .
Beginning with the\ldquo ; Rutherford\ldquo ; model of the atom , and introducing PLANCK'S quantum , Dr. BOHR has derived a formula for the hydrogen spectrum which excludes these lines , while reeing closely with the hydrogen series about which there can be no doubt .
The " " 4686 " " and Pickering series , however , are included in another formula , derived for the emission of helium atoms during the first stage of their reformation when both electrons are supposed to have been removed by the strong discharges employed .
This formula is identical , in a first approximation , with that for hydrogen except that the Rydberg constant ' ' scale ) has four times its ordinary value .
The two " " Principal\ldquo ; series previously assigned to hydrogen were thus united in a single formula and attributed to helium , while the Pickering series was made to intermediate lines coincident with the Balmer series of hydrogen .
As the lines in question , whatever their origin , must be regarded as enhanced lines , it was evidently desirable to continue the general investigation of lines of this class .
Further investigation of magnesium , in particular , was also suggested by the discovery made PASCHEN , and by KING , S that the line 4481 is a close doublet ( about ) , as it appeared that a valuable indication of the type of series to which it belongs might be obtained if other members could be resolved .
Photographs with high dispersion have accordingly been taken for the resolution of the lines and to proyide more accurate data for testing the formula for enhnnced lines which was suggested by the work of BOHE .
Other raphs , taken with smaller dispersion , have resulted in the detection of additional which clearly belong to series related to that beginning with 4481 .
The discussion of the new data for ma , nesium , and of the data for calcium and stro1ltin given by other observers , has led to some conclusions which are probably of general application to enbanced line seri The chief results of the investigation are sulnmarised in S14 .
'Roy . .
Proc , 1913 , vol. 89 , p. 133 .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 26 , p. 1 and p. 476 ( 1913 ) .
Communicated privatcly ( 1913 , August ) .
'Astrophys .
Jour vol. 38 , p. 327 ( 1913 ) .
PROF .
A. ON ERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
S2 .
ve-l ) of the " " 4481 " " Series of Magnesium .
The members of the " " 4481\ldquo ; series are essentially spark , or enhanced lines , but they are most conveniently produced in an arc between magnesium poles in and are best observed in the blue green patch in the region of the negative pole , viewed end-on .
Under these conditions they are obtained as very narrow lines , well adapted for accurate measurement .
The new determinations of wave-lengths have been based as as possible on the interferometer values for the lines of iron , or upon grating determinations depending upon sucf ] standards , among which those given by Dr. KEIVIN BURNS* have been especially useful .
The Line 4481.\mdash ; Previous photographs taken in the 1st order of a concave grating of 10 feet radius gave no indication of the resolution of 4481 , but photographs recently obtained in the 3rd and 4th orders show it to consist of two clearly separated lines ( Plate 3 , fig. 6 ) , of which the more refrangible is the stronger , as stated by KING .
The lines have no close resemblance to the side components of a reversed line , as the space between them is considerably greater than the thickness of either of them , and , as pointed out by KING , the measured separation is the same in photographs taken with different lengths of exposure , and in different orders of the grating .
Iron arc comparisons were exposed both before and after the magnesium , and the plates were measured in the usual way with red right and red left .
The mean results from numerous measurements International scale .
Rowland scale .
Dr. KING'S values for the two components on ROWLAND'S scale are and , but from the reproductions given in his paper , the lines do not appear to have been as narrow as those from which the above results were obtained .
[ Note.\mdash ; The new measurements of 4481 as a doublet permits of a more satisfactory conclusion as to its presence among the Fraunhofer lines than has hitherto been possible .
ROWLAND tabulates two lines , each of intensity " " \ldquo ; at and , with an intermediate titanium line ( intensity 1 ) at .
The agreement for the component , 'hich is a very distinct line in ROWLAND'S map , may be considel.ed exact , but the discordance on the less refrangible line exceeds the probable error of measurement , and the intensity is also a little too high in the sun .
It may be , however , that both these discordances are caused by a still fainter solar line which is neal.ly superposed on that of magnesium , since such lines are very numerous .
The presence of Mg 4481 as faint lines in the solar spectrum may therefore be considered eitscb . .
Wiss .
Photog 1913 , XII .
, 6 , p. 219 'Lick Obs. Bull vol. VIII .
, No. 247 ( 1913 ) .
PROF .
A. ON LINES IN SPARK SPFCTRA .
very probable , indicating a condition somewhat more advanced than the ordinary arc , in the direction of the spark .
] The Line 3104.\mdash ; This line was easily resolved in the 4th order of the grating ( Plate 3 , fig. 7 ) , and has two components exactly those of 4481 , but separated by less than one-tenth of an ngstrom unit .
The iron arc comparison was photographed through a glycerine solution of para-nitroso-dimethyl-aniline contained in a quartz cell , as recommended by Prof. R. W. WOOD .
* This solution absorbs the superposed 3rd order spectrum , but transmits the 4th order lines with reference to which the magnesium lines were measured .
The mean results from three excellent plates with five comparison spectra are as follows:\mdash ; Intern ational scale .
otvland scttlc .
The Line 2661.\mdash ; On the assumption of a constant wave-number interval between the components of the resolved lines , the separation at 2661 would be about which is very near the limit of resolution of the grating .
Hence with the exposures of 3 to 5 hours required in the 3rd and 4th orders , a very slight unsteadin of conditions , such as might arise from small variations of temperature , would tend to mask any resolution which might otherwise be effected .
Many 3rd order plates were taken , all of which show the line broadened , but only one suggests resolution , and on none of the 4th order plates was this result improved upon .
Measurements of the best 3rd order plate gave the following wave-lengths:\mdash ; International scale .
scale .
These values are in good accordance with the mean of several determinations from 1st order plates , namely , ( I. .
Lines.\mdash ; It has not been found possible to beyond the first three lines in the higher orders of the grating , but the wave-lengths of the next two , 2449 and 2329 , have been checked by a photograph in the first order , giving dispersion of .
per mm. of iron lines give1l by Bu were used for the line 2449 , but not available for 2329 .
The lines 2253 , 2202 , 2166 do not appear on any of the grating aphs , but are well shown on the original plates take1l with a quartz spectrograph , giving an average dispersion in this region of about 6 .U .
per mm. Further measurements have been made , but in the absence of better standards it has not been found necessary to modify the values given in the 'Phil .
Mag Series 6 , vol. 6 , p. 257 ( 1903 ) .
previous paper .
The reference spectrum for these lines was the copper arc , as by KAYSER and RUNG , and the lines are subject to an uncertainty of about in absolute value .
All the necessary details with regard to the " " \ldquo ; series are brought together in Table I. , the corrections to vacuum having been made from KAYSER'S table .
* TABLE I.\mdash ; The " " 4481 " " Series of Magnesium .
vave.numb.nEstim .
Remarks .
plates .
quartz spectrograph .
From the separations of the three lines which have been resolved , it appears at once that the interval between the components , in wave-numbers , is sensibly constant , and that the series is therefore not of the ordinary Principal type .
In a Principal series having a separation of for the first member at 4481 , the interval at 3104 would be reduced to , and at 2660 to , but there is no evidence of such contraction .
S3 .
Formulaj for the Mg " " 4481 " " Series .
The application to these lines of the ordinary formulae of RYDBERG , RITZ , or HICKS , requires the division of the lines into two series by taking alternate lines , the two ' Handbuch der ctroscopie , ' Band II .
, p. 514 .
PROF .
A. FOWLrR ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK CTRA .
series thus resembling the Diffuse and Sharp series which occur in the spectra of other elements .
Two such series can only be included in a single formula in the special case when the fractional terms associated with the parameter differ by exactly , the Rydberg constant being then replaced by , if takes successive integral values .
In the general case , objection to this combination would be the smaller intensities of the lines of the Sharp as compared with those of the Diffuse series .
The intensities of the " " 4481\ldquo ; lines , however , are graded as in an ordinary series , and the chief objection to uniting them in a single formula in the first discussion was the undesirability of introducing a new type of series formula for what seemed to be a special case , so long as the older formulae could be employed .
This objection is no longer valid , because , as will appear later , several other series of the same type , occurring in associated groups , have since been recognised .
From the formulae previously given for the two divisions of the " " 4481 " " lines , it was evident that all the lines could be combined , at least very lleally , in one equation if desired .
There were , however , small deviations , apparently systematic , which suggested that the union was not quite exact , but these have been removed by the new measurements , which beca me necessary when appeared that the lines were doublets .
It can no longer be doubted that the lines form a single series , differing from the more familiar series in that the lines occur twice as frequently ; i.e. , if the ordinary formulae involving the Rydberg constant be employed , we find lines corresponding not only to the integral values , but also to .
It will , however , be more convenient to employ formulae in which takes successive integral values only , being then replaced by or by a number of that order of magnitude .
As the positions of the lines have been determined with considerable precision , and the lines are fairly numerous , it seemed desirable to compare the accuracy of a variety of formula , some with assumed the same as for hydrogen , and others with this term calculated from the lines themselves .
The fact that not all the lines have been resolved , and the slight uncertainty as to the absolute positions of the last two or three of the series , enders the comparison to some extent wanting in finality , but the results may nevertheless be of interest .
For comparison of obseryed and calculated wave-numbers , the unresolved lines have been regarded as consisting of two components separated by , one having a wave- number greater by than that of the unresolved line , and the other less , since the more refrangible component is about double the intensity of the less rlgible .
The wave-numbers adopted in the calculations for the less refrangible components , adjusted in this manner , are given in the first column of Table II .
The wave- numbers are on the International scale , and have been corrected to vacuum .
On this scale , the value of the Rydberg constant , according to an investigation by W. E. CURTIS* is * Not yet published .
The formulae which have been calculated are as follows:\mdash ; I. RYDBERG'S , with as for hydrogen , II .
with numerator calculated , III .
HICKS ' , with as for hydrogen , IV .
, with as for hydrogen , V. RYDBERG'S , with numerator calculated , and assumed an integer VI .
Same as V. ; least square solution , using all the lines , The observed minus computed values resulting from these formulae are shown in Table II .
II.\mdash ; Less Refrangible Components of Mg " " 4481\ldquo ; Series .
numb .
numb .
numb .
numb .
numb .
numb .
numb .
Remarks .
Lines unresolved but wave-numbers adiusted .
* Usod in calculation of constants .
Calculated from equation III .
assuming estimated error of formula .
PROF .
A. ON IN CTRA .
Tt will be seen that the lines are very closely represented by any of the formulae .
the simple equation ( I. ) leaves no error so great as a quarter of an nostrom unit , and it would require wave-leno.ths of still greater accuracy to test the relative merits of the other .
In each case , owever , the residuals , although very small , are sufficiently systelnatic to indicate that not the formulae can be considered exact , unless some unrecognised source of systematic error in the determination of the wave-numbers may eventually be aced .
In choosing between the different forms of equation it is accordingly necessary to be guided by experience of their application to other series of the aracter , if they caIl be found .
Th result of such trials , as will presently appear , is to indicate that the Hicks form of equation is the one which most closely accords with the observations in general .
In the absence of an exact formula , a consideration of the residuals given in Table II .
indicates that the limits of the " " 4481 " " series may be taken as and with very small probable error , and these values will be adopted in the subsequent discussion .
S4 .
Tl , Other series of lines apparently similar in character to the " " 4481 " " series of Mg were found in LYMAN'S observations of narrow doublets of Ca , Sr , and Ba in the Schumann region , with SAUNDER'S observations in the ordinary ultra-violet .
While the investigation was in progress , however , a discussion of the available observations of these series was published by E. LORENSER , who also found that the formulae could not be applied to them .
LORLNSLB further established these series stand in the relation of Fundamental ( F ) , or " " \ldquo ; series to the systelns of series the well-known wider doublets in the spectra of these , of which the and lines of may be quoted as a nple .
In each case the separation of narrow doublets of the series is identical with that of the first member and its satellite in the Diffuse ( D ) sel.ies of the wider doublets ; and the limits of the are apparently identical with the parts the expressions for these lines . .
Ba , presents soIne d generally LORENSER'S formulae as follows , the Sharp series .
indicated by 'Astrophys .
Jour vol. , p. 341 ( 1912 ) .
'Dissertation , ' ( 1913 ) .
Formulae of this typc were first employed for the of by SAUNDER ( ' Astrophys .
Jour vol. 32 , p. 164 , 1910 ) .
In a later paper SAUNDERS also indicated a co1lncction between the limits of the wide and narrow doublets ( ' Physical Review , ' Series 2 , vol. 1 , p. 332 , 1913 ) .
VOL. CCXIV.\mdash ; A. 2 Calcium\mdash ; Wide doublets .
arrow doublets Wide doublets .
Narrow doublets The numeration of the members is shown in Tables III .
and .LORENSER ; Fow . .
The negative terms corresponding to in the series , and to in the series ( the latter giving the first doublet ) , are given very erroneously by the formulae , as is so often the case in the more familiar series .
Nevertheless , LORENSER has fully established the connection of the with the series , through the usual relations , to which reference has already been made .
There is sufficient evidence that the lines in question are to be regarded as enhanced lines , and , though LORENSER does not appear to have recognised this fact , his work proved that enbanced lines may form groups of related series which are generally similar to those occurl.ing in arc spectra , but require modifications of the usual formulae .
It will be observed that in LORENSER'S formulae the numerator is of the order of as in those already found for the Mg " " 4481\ldquo ; series , and the question arises whether may not be the universal constant for enhanced lines , as is universal for series of lines produced under less violent excitation .
The series are not long enough to a very satisfactory comparison of the relative accuracy of different formulae , but , so far as it goes , the evidence is distinctly in favour of the Hicks formula with for the numerator .
For the series the formula may take the simpler Rydberg form with sufficient accuracy .
The formulae for the above series are then as follows , the wave-numbers being on ROWLAND'S scale to facilitate comparison with LORENSER'S figures:\mdash ; PROF .
ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
Calcium\mdash ; Wide doublets Narrow doublets Strontium\mdash ; Wide doublets Narrow doublets The numeration of the members is shown in Tables III .
and IV .
Details as to wave-lengths and wave-numbers of the lines involved , as quoted by LORENSER , are shown in Tables III .
and IV .
, which also indicate the differences between the wave-lengths observed and those calculated from the two sets of equations .
An inspection of the tables will show that the observations are more closely represented in every case , and especially in the case of the negative terms , by the Hicks formula involving than by the formula which has been employed by LORENSER .
The superiority of the former is further shown in the greater accuracy with which it proves the identity of the limits of the series with the yariable parts of the expressions for the first line of the series and its satellite .
LORENSER has assumed this identity in determining the limits of the series , thus\mdash ; Ca : 70 , Sr : 64,154 64 , 154 If , however , the formulae for the series be calculated entirely from the lines themselves we get the equations .
5 5 PROF .
A. FOWLER ON LINES IN SPARK SPLCTRA .
23.8 PItOF .
A. ON IN SPARK SPECTRA .
: : is nsed throughout the discrepancies are Sr : gives the variable parts of tho expressions fore the first lines their sateIlites as Sr : Comparing these values with the limits calculated from the observed lines by of the formula with , we have the discrepancies reduced to Ca : Sr : The discussion of the available for calcium and strontium , therefore , leads to the sion that series consisting of need lines be represented by the formula of if numerator ) replaced by .
It is , of course , to be understood that the is subject to the limitations as the one applied to ordinary series .
is , owever , important erence between the enhanced line series of Ca , , and Ba , and the ordinary arc of these and other elements , namely , that in case of lines the first ) sel.ved melnber of the Diffuse series appears negntive sign , while in the ordinary series it has a positive sign .
case the limit of the series and the separation of the doublets are 1levertheless ived from this first lnember taken with proper .
Tbis is the " " new relation\ldquo ; discovel.ed by in connection with the wide and narrow doublets of Ca , Sr , and , " " OIlvergence wave-number of complex pair series ( D ) plus the UInber of the first term equals the convergence wave-number of the narrow pair series \ldquo ; modified Hicks formula may accordingly be employed with confidence in rehing for possible relationships of the " " 4481\ldquo ; series with other series of enhanced lines of magnesium .
PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
S5 .
The Doublet Systern of Magnesium .
The spectrum of magnesium , as is well known , also contains doublets similar to those occurring in calcium , strontium , and barium .
They do not appear in the flame spectrum ; they occur in the arc and are certainly intensified in the spark , and are therefore to be regarded as enhanced lines of Class I. LORENSER has discussed these lines , but has not identified any associated Fundamental series such as were found for the other three nents .
The lines in question are indicated in Table V. TABLE V.\mdash ; Magnesium Wide Doublets .
Diffuse .
Unfortunately , the lines are so few that the equations of the two series can only be determined completely by utilisin all the lines in the calculation of constants , the limit derived from the Sharp series being assumed for the Diffuse .
LORENSER'S formulae with the numeration indicated in Table .
are ' The Hicks rmulae for these series , with the numeration shown undel : ' \ldquo ; in Table V. , are * Also the first doublet of the PrincipaI series .
hese Mg doublets are to the wider doublets of Ca , Sr , and They occnr under precisely similar experimental conditions ; ( 2 ) They show similar Zeeman ; ( 3 ) The separations of the components\mdash ; Mg 1691\mdash ; are roughly proportional to the squares of the atomic ; ( 4 ) limits of the series follow a natural se , decreasing in the usual owever , is incomplete .
In Ca , Sr , .and Ba , the first negative terms of the 1 ) series , ( by in the Hicks ) correspond , as already mentioned , to obse lines bless III .
IV .
) aving satellite separations identical with those of the doublets in the associated series ; in these cases the satellite lies on the violet side of the refrangible component of the doublet , and not on the red side of the less ible component as in the positive terms of the same series .
In Mg , on the other hand , the pair give by in the Hicks formula has a positive sign , no lines been observed near the position of the negative term ( 25,350 or about 3940 ) given ) associated series , by , would be expected to its limits near 110,830 , but there is no evidence of the existence such a series .
absence of a tive term in the observed doublets of suggests , as an tive view , that the associated series be derived from the first line actually observed , nannely 2798 .
In case formula would give for the lilnit of the series : , and the Hicks formula nres once suggest the 49,778 of the " " 4481 " " series ; and the Wide , in , consistent the assumption that nent is exact .
It would seeln then that the " " 4481\ldquo ; series may be a series deriving its limits from the first positive line of the series of Widc1 doublets .
In that case the line 2798 would be expected to have satellite with the same separation as the lines of the " " 4481 " " series , namely , special search for the satellite has been in the photographs of the in taken in the fourth order of the grating , but it has not been directly .
Indirect of its possible existence , however , is afforded by snrenlents of of the Wide .
The new wave-lengths are on TnteJ 1 Scale in } .
It will be seen that while the pairs in close ( eelnent , separation of interval of the is not less , would usually be the case if a satellite were , but greater .
This is confirnled by the recent measures of these lines by The ents thus gest that there is a satellite on the ible side of the chief line , the separation being comparable with that in the ' ' 4481 " " series if wo assume ) the tabulated refers to the chief line itself .
a reversal of the usual position of the satellite , however , would accord 'Zeitsch . .
Wiss .
Photog 1913 , XII .
, 2 , p. 59 .
PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
with the fact that the more refrangible component of the " " 4481 " " lines is also ths stronger .
While it is thus probable the " " 4481\ldquo ; series is numerically related to the series of Wide doublets , there are objections to regarding it as directly derived from that series\mdash ; ( 1 ) The " " 4481 " " lines , unlike the doublets , do not occur in the ordinary arc ; ( 2 ) The separation of the components of the " " ' lines is much too small compared with the doublets of Ca , Sr , and Ba ; the latter are roughly proportional to the squares of the atomic weights\mdash ; Ca 65 , Sr 285 , Ba 575\mdash ; and a corresponding series of Mg would be expected to have a separation of about 20 in place of the actually observed in the " " 4481 " " lines .
The probable nature of the relation , however , has been revealed by the discovery of a new system of doublets , with which the " " 4481 " " series appears to be directly associated .
Before to these new lines it will ) convenient to give further data for the Wide doublets , for comparison with similar which will appear later for the new series .
On the that the part of the expression for the first observed pair of the series is identical with one limit the ' ' 4481 " " series , the corrected limit of less , components becomes 49 , , or , and of the more refrangible components , .
These utilised in the construction of Table .
It is only necessary to explain the symbols TABLE VI.\mdash ; Mg Wide Doublets .
Revised Data .
Limits Assumed of satellite to 2797 989 .
First doublet .
ber of probable satellite .
VOL. CCXIV.\mdash ; A. .
A. ON SERI LINES IN CTRA .
in dopted by in his extensive researches on series , represent the ers of the observed lines and the limits of the series to which they belong .
, if the Hicks equation were exact , the symbol 3 would be an breviation for when has the value 3 , and so on .
Defects of formulae aated in evaluating the variable parts of the expressions in this manner , except as regards determination of the limits .
In the present case it is ) ) that the limits ars also exact .
betweon the two values of , and between those of are to be ibuted to errors of observation .
S6 .
A New System of Magnesium Doublets .
Two conspicuons doublets , a little more refrangible than ( Plate 3 , fig. 2 ) , were rocorded in ] arc in ) by and PAIN in Following who also ated their occurrence in the nesium spectrum , it will be convenient to these the " " and \ldquo ; or\ldquo ; F.P. " " Doublets in .
to them the " " Wide\ldquo ; Doublets which have already been discussed , to avoid confusion with the term " " Narrow\ldquo ; Doublets as applied to the series ) , Sr , Ba .
' of these lines were give more in a later as , and ( 1 the in two doublets are and respectively .
The lines ntly f two related p , airs , and the experimental conditions for their production identical in every respect with those for 4481 , thus differing from the Wide Doublets in violet .
It , therefore , that the " " F.P.\ldquo ; Doublets migbt belong to series , investigation of would throw further light on the relationships of the " " 4481 " " series .
Six othor doublets with the ) interval were eventually traced , an additional in infra-red ecordod by .
The doublets occur in groups of tw the more ible b. slightly the stronger in group .
They fall readily two series , the other line series which have been considered , it is necessary to nploy t for the numerator in the formulae .
been regarded as elongin to the Diffuse , and the weaker to to this classification is supported the the last terms of the tors when his formula is employed .
lines been made on taken with the quartz ( t'late 3 , figs. 4 and 5 ) , with exception of the doublets near 4481 , .
Soc. Proc 1903 , vol. 72 , p. 255 . .
Soc. Proc 1907 , ) .
Trans , 1909 , vol. 209 , p. 451 .
PROF . .
FOWLER ON SFRIES LINI IN SPARK SPECTRA . .
the been redetermined from plates taken in the 3rd and the .
International standards were employed in the determinations the botl ] scales are given in Table VII .
For these " " the small letters , and will be used for the Diffuse , Sharp , and Principal series respectively , , and being reserved for the corresp 1 of Wide ] mploying tl less ngible components of the first , second , and fourth doublets for calculation of constants , the resulting equation for the series is and for the series , the limits and calculating from the first and third of less gible components These represent all bservations very closely as will be seen from the columns " " -C1 " " in Table VII .
S7 .
" " 4481 " " the New Series .
A connection between ] doublets and the " " 4481 " " series is indicated by the above equation the , since gives the variable part as which is close to the limits of the " " 4481\ldquo ; series .
By analogy with the doublets of Ca , Sr , and , this would ) the if the " " 4481 " " series were a Fundamental series forming part of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; systenl .
Such an association would conform with the rule already indicated by the other three elements that the limit of the series in the case of enhanced lines is derived from the first negative term of the series , and not from the first positive as in arc line series .
For the complete establishment of this relation the lines of the series should be found to have satellites ; and in the case of the first member the separation of the satellite should be equal to that of 4481 .
The wave-length of the first line is given by the Hicks formula as near 10,900 , a position which does not fall within the region which could be observed with the instruments available .
The satellite separation should be .
The second pair , which should have a satellite separation , is also outside the region investigated .
At the third the satellite separation would be reduced to which is too small for resolution .
There is , however , some evidence of a disturbance of the position of the line ( Table VII This part of the spectrum was in the 3rd PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
and 4th orders of the grating , and careful measurements have shown that the doublet is slightly wider than the neighbouring doublet of the series .
LORENSER'S interval for the pair is also greater than that of the other doublets which have beelt measured .
intervals of the remaining pairs have been less accurately determined and cannot be used for snch a comparison .
As in the case of the corresponding line 2798 of the Wide doublet ( D ) series , the observations of the 4390 doublet satellite on refrangible side of the chief line , and this unusual position would accord with the greater strength of the more refrangible components of " " 4481 ' ' series .
The " " 4481 " " series be considered to be associated with either of the two systems of doublets , but a more direct connection with " " F.P.\ldquo ; group is indicated by the fact that these lines occur under precisely the same experimental conditions as 4481 .
With this relation no difficulty arises with regard to the small interval of the " " 4481 " " lines , or to the limits of the series when compared with the corresponding figures for Ca , Sr , and Ba .
It may therefore be concluded that the " " 4481 " " series is the Fundamental series of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; system .
S8 .
The Principal Serics of New System .
Associated with the " " F.P.\ldquo ; doublets a Principal series would also be expected .
The approximate formula for the more refrangible components of these doublets , calculated in the usual way from that of the series , is This indicates the neighbourhood of 9340 for the first doublet ( which should have ) and for second .
The first is outside the range of the present observations , but the second is probably represented by one of two similar pairs of lines which are developed under the same conditions as the " " F.P.\ldquo ; lines .
In each pair the more refrangible component is the stronger , as it should be in the series , and the separations are about that which would be expected in the second member .
Particulars of these lines are as follows:\mdash ; . .
Remarks .
Probable " " combination\ldquo ; doublet ( Plate 3 , fig. 8 ) .
25 , 27,6500 Probable doublet .
27,6640 It is evident that both pairs cannot belong to the series , and the near equality of the intervals therefore suggests that one belongs to the series while the other is a " " combination\ldquo ; doublet .
We have , in fact , the following numerical relations with the term given by the limit of the more refrangible ( stronger ) components of the ' ' 4481 ' series:\mdash ; mean The last number is not far from the approximate limit calculated for the series , and it is suggested that the lines at 3615 form the doublet while the other pair is a combination derived from this and the limit of the " " 4481\ldquo ; series , or .
A striking confirmation of this conclusion is afforded by the fact that the term for the .
Wide doublet series ( Table VI .
) is .
This is not only in close accordance with the limit for calculated above , but is an important indication of the intimate connection of the two systems of doublets .
It will suffice for the present to note that the limit of the series of " " F.P. " " doublets appears to be given by the difference between the limit of the subordinate Wide doublets and the wavenumber of the first observed line which has a positive value ; or , symbolically , .
The agreement is too close to be regarded as accidental , and assuming the relation to be true , the limit of the series can be determined very exactly .
The limit of the " " 4481 " " series ( giving and thence ) has been found with considerable precision and the waye-number of the line giving , has also been accurately determined .
Herlce , with very small probable error , the limit of ths series may be taken as .
The limits of the and series are probably also not far from the truth , and the wave-numbers of the components of the pair may therefore be deduced by the Rydbsrg-Schuster law .
Hence , although only the second doublet has been actually observe.d , there are sufficient data for the calculation of ' formulae for the series , namely , The positions of the first four doublets calculated from these equations are as follows:\mdash ; PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPLCTRA .
TABLE VIII.\mdash ; Principal Series of\ldquo ; F.P.\ldquo ; Doublets .
Limit Remarks .
Calculated .
Observed .
Calculated .
The Principal series thus appears to be satisfactorily identified , but it is somewhat remarkable that it does not occur with greater intensity .
S9 .
Relation between tloe Two Systems of Doublets .
The connection of 4481 with the Wide doublets appears to arise from the fact that the two sets of doublets are themselves closely related .
An indication of this has already been noted in connection with limit of the series .
Further evidence is afforded by comparison of other terms of the two systems .
Thus , for the Wide doublets , including the case just entioned , we have from Table VI .
, all of which are derived from actual observations , and are , therefore , unaffected by any imperfections of formulae except as regards the limits of 4481 " " series .
The equations for the , and series of " " F.P.\ldquo ; doublsts ( pp. 244 and 246 ) give corresponding terms , The calculated terms of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; doublets may thus be considered identical with the corresponding terms of the Wide doublets , within the possible limits of error .
In that case the corresponding subordinate series would run parallel to each other in the two systems at distance apart of and .
A further important ldication of a close connection between the two systems results from a consideration of the series of Wide doublets , of which only the pair 2802 , 2795 falls within the region of observation .
In view of the relations of the other series to which reference has been made , the limit of the series is probably given exactly as , or as shown in Table VI .
With this limit , the formulae for the two components of the series , derived from the observed pair are , From these equations we find for the series the results shown in Table IX .
TABLE IX.\mdash ; Principal Series of Wide Doublets ( Preliminary Calculation ) .
Limit PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
The first striking result derived from these calculations is that the separation of the second member is , which is exactly that of the and doublets of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; system .
Hence it is suggested that the variable parts are really identical with corresponding terms of the series ( Table VIII The differences are in fact not too great to be attributed to defects of the simple formulae employed .
Thus and series may also be considered as running parallel to each other at a distanc apart of .
Since the data for the series depend upon more complete observational material than those for the latter may be corrected by the former , with the following results:\mdash ; TABLE X.\mdash ; Corrected Principal Series of Wide Doublets .
Limit Remarks .
Observed lines ( Table Calculated .
Even the second pair is beyond the region photographed by LYMAN in the case of magnesium , but it is not outside the limit of possible observation .
The foregoing considerations leave no doubt that while the limits and separations of the and series of Wide doublets are derived in the usual manner from the first doublet of the series , those of the and series of the narrower " " F.P.\ldquo ; doublets are derived from the pair ( Wide doublets ) .
PASCHEN'S work on Colnbination series appears to justify the belief that the ) law of limits , and RUNGE'S law as to the derivatio of the limit of Fundamental series from the first line of the Diffuse series , are both exact , and the parallelism of the two systems thus permits the accurate calculation of data for botb , since data lacking in one may be adopted from the other .
For example , the of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; group is given by calculation as , and as ; both may be obtained with a much higher degree of precision by adopting the values and of the Wide doublet system ( Table VI which are themselves independent of formulae except as regards the determination of the limits of the " " 4481 " " series .
The following table ( XI .
) may VOL. CCXIV.\mdash ; A. 2 TABLE XI.\mdash ; The " " \ldquo ; Doublet System of Magnesium ( Wave-numbers and " " Variable Parts * From Tablo ; ls From HICKS ' mula for " " 4481 " " series ( equation III .
, p. 232 ) .
Observed doublet ( Table VI ; the variable parts in this case are and and PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
accordingly be drawn up for the " " F.P.\ldquo ; system , it being understood that the variable parts of the , and series are equally applicable to the Wide doublets .
In each case the terms \amp ; c. , are given as derived from the observed wave-number of the less refrangible components ; they would be the same for the more refrangible components if there were no errors of observation .
The wave-numbers included are those which have been actually observed ; others may readily be obtained from the limits and variable parts given .
Terms depending wholly on calculation from formulae are enclosed in brackets , and for simplicity the satellite has been disregarded .
Further reference to this table will be made in the discussion of Combination series .
S10 .
Combination Lines Series of Magnesium .
In the discussion of series , the wave-number of a lin is represented by the difference of two other wave-numbers , the first of which ( the limit ) is constant for a given series , and the other variable , the limit itself appearing as one of the variable parts in an associated series .
Combination lines and series , as is well known from the ork of RITZ and PASCHI ] , are formed by taking differences between the variable parts from different series .
The Fundamental series was regarded by RlTZ as a special type of Combination series , in which the variable part , in a doublet series , is given by , or , where and are taken from the formulae for the two components of the Principal series , or derived from the constant separation in the Diffuse and Sharp series .
This relation , however , is only approximate , and will be used to denote the variable part in the Fundamental series .
It should be recalled that if there are no satellites in the series , the series consists of single lines , and that when satellites are present in a doublet system , the lines are also doublets , with a separation equal to that of the satellite and chief lin in the first member of the series .
The whole of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; system may be considered to consist of Combination series derived from the Wide doublets , or vice .
Retaining the use of capital letters for the Wide , and small ones for the " " F.P.\ldquo ; doublsts , and disregarding the satellites , we have the relations or .
Either of the groups might be approximately determined in this way from the other , but an accurate knowledge of all the data for one of them can only be obtained by utilizing observations of both .
An interesting extension of the investigation of magnesium has been made possible by the production of a number of new lines of moderate intensity , which occur under the same experimental conditions as the " " F.P.\ldquo ; group ( Plate 3 , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ) .
For some time the appearance of these lines seemed rather capricious , and it was thought that they might possibly be due to impurities .
It was eventually found , however , that they could always be obtained in a small region near the negative pole of the arc in , provided a sufficiently heavy current ( 7 or 8 amperes ) were employed .
The lines were shown clearly in many photographs , where the only lines traceable to impurities were faint ones of Na , Ca , and Ba .
No further doubt can be felt as to the magnesium origin of the lines , in view of the manner in which their positions can be calculated from the constants for the doublets , taken from Table XI .
One of the combination terms has already been utilised in the discussion of the series .
This is represented by the combination , giving the lines , which form a well-marked doublet , sbown very clearly in Plate 3 , fig. 8 .
In addition , two well defined Combination series have been identified .
A few of the lines involved appear in a list given by LORENSER , but their connections were not then recognised .
One of these series is somewhat stronger than the other and may be distinguished as Series , the weaker being designated Series B. In each case the intensities degrade in the usual way in passing to the violet ( Plate 3 , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ) .
Series A results from the combination , and from .
Details of the observations and comparisons with the calculations are given in Tables XII .
and XIII .
TABLE XII.\mdash ; Magnesium Combination Series .
Limit , PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
TABLE XIII.\mdash ; Magnesium Combination Series .
Limit , FoWLER)observed)ated ) es It will be observed that in each case there is a systematic difference between observation and calculation .
In Series , however , the differences are very slight , and possibly negligible ; but in Series they are too large to be attributed to faulty observations .
The terms have been derived from observations of a high order of accuracy , and in the case of Series , the calculated wave-numbers would not be affected by any error in the adopted value of the limit of the series .
It is scarcely probable that Series , with its limit so near to , is independent of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; system , and it would therefore appear that the combination principle is not exact in every case , except probably as regards the values of the limits .
Calculations of formulae for the two series from the observed lines themselves co1lfirm the values of the limits given by the combination terms .
These formulae are as follows:\mdash ; The residuals ( O-C ) left by the formulae on the observed wave-numbers are\mdash ; A general view of the enhanced line series of magnesium now identified is given in fig. 1 , in which the doublet separations have been arbitrarily increased for greater clearness .
-lino erics of magnosinm .
S11 .
eneral Cof Mg , Ca , Sr , and Ba .
of the results of the investigation is to indicate that Mg ) ehaves differently from C in the spark .
All are alike having series of Wide doublets with sepal.ations related to the atomic , but the doublet with negative frequency which occurs in the other three elenents is lacking in Mg .
While Ca , Sr , and Ba have strong Fundamental series with limits derived from the negative doublet , the corresponding of , like the negative term from which it should be derived , does not appear to exist .
In Mg the equivalent of the series of the othel three elelnents is replaced by the whole system of\ldquo ; \ldquo ; doublets ( including the " " 4481\ldquo ; series as Fundamental ) , which has no analogue in the other three elements so far as is known at pres .
The " " \ldquo ; system itself is closely related to the family of Wide doublets , but although both consist of ) anced lines they do not necessarily co-exist ; the wider system occurring in the ordinary arc , while the closer requires the conditions of the spark or its equivalent , the negative pole of an arc in The ( 4481\ldquo ; series is established as a Fundamental series , but the system of it forms a part is in some respects exceptional .
It is important to observe that no numerical relations between the enhanced and arc line series occurring in the spectra of any of the four elements have been recognised .
S12 .
of Helium .
The now demonstrated existence of series having for the " " universal\ldquo ; constant has an bearing on the question of the origin of the special lines produced PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
by strong discharges in helium tubes , to which reference has already been made .
Some of these were at first regarded as being identical with the lines of the supposed series of hydrogen calculated by RYDBERG on the assumption that the Pickering ( Puppis ) lines formed the series .
The lines in question are compared with RYDBERG'S values ( Rowland scale ) in the appended table:\mdash ; TABLE \mdash ; The " " 4686 " " Series .
In order to conform with RYDBERG'S theory , and to adapt the formulae then ordinarily employed , it was necessary , as in the first discussion of th Mg " " 4481 " " series , to divide the series into two parts by taking alternate lines .
One series , as will be seen from the table , then agreed very closely with the calculated values for the series of hydrogen , and the other was regarded as a second series having a simple relation to the first .
The conditions of appearance of these lines in helium tubes indicates that they are enhanced lines , and calculation shows that they can be united in a single series of the type , as in the case of the other series of lines of this class which have been discussed .
Thus , the first line , which has been most accurately measured , gives the equation .
The differences O-C for the seven observed lines are .
All are within the estimated limits of error of observation , or very nearly so , except the third , and even in this case a correction of .
to the observed wave-length would reduce the difference to zero .
The " " 4686\ldquo ; series is accordingly series of the enhanced line , or , type , and can no longer be considered to belong to the s ) roup as the Balmer series of hydrogen which is of the arc , or , type .
numerical relations indicated by are therefore not , in view of the experimental evidence , it must be concluded the " " 4686 " " series is not due to , but to helium , as first indicated by Dr. BOHR from theoretical considerations .
This sion is further supp ) orted by EVANS'S observation of the line 4686 in a helium tube in which the ordinary lines of hydrogen could not be detected .
* In accordance with the convenient nomenclature of LOCKYER it is suggested that the lines in question should be designated " " proto-helium " " lines .
Analogy with the Ilesium " " 4481\ldquo ; series suggests that the " " 4686\ldquo ; series should be regarded as one of the type , and the question arises as to how the associated , and series are represented in the proto-helium spectrum .
of the series alone does not permit the complete calculation of any of the three associated series , but only indicates the " " variable part\ldquo ; of the first line of the series .
In the case of -helium , the limit of the " " 4686\ldquo ; series , , shows that the variable part of the formula is identical with that of the , but the limit of remains mdetermined .
A consistent arrangement is possible , however , if the be arded as having the same nit as the series , in which case the four series would coalesce in the formula where .
This only requires that the zero values of given by be arded as negative terms , so that if the formula be taken to represent the coalesced and series , the limit of derived from , and that of derived from would also be .
The lines of the four series would thus be coincident .
The great strength of the " " 4481 " " series of magnesium as compared with that of the other series of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; group , however , suggests that the " " 4686 " " series is primarily of the type .
As pointed out by BOHR , the substitution of 4 for 3 in the above formula for the ' ' 4686\ldquo ; series yields a series of lines of which the ( Puppis ) lines , also formerly attributed to hydrogen , are alternate members , the remainder being nearly cident with the Balmer lines of hydrogen .
It is probable , therefore , that the lines are also due to proto-helium , as they have only been observed in association with 4686 .
The calculated wave-lengths of the earlier members of the extended series are compared in Table .
with the Balmer series , and with the hypothetical " " sharp\ldquo ; series of hydrogen calculated by RYDBERG .
-XV .
\mdash ; The " " Pickering\ldquo ; Series .
Proto-helium , " " ' series , ericsH dated)\ldquo ; ' , 4641 .
79 *turs , ' 1913 , September 4 , p. 6 , PROF .
A. ON IN SPARK SPECTRA .
The astrophysical and experim mental data as yet given no proof of the existence of the lines adjacent to those of hydrogen , but there is no evidence against the supposition that they exist .
The of these lines to proto-helium is supported by the observations of esium , which have logous series associated with the " " 4481 " " series .
The sel.ies A of llesium , given by combination , would become -helium\mdash ; the numeration being htly d in the two and this would be identical with the formula for the extended Pickering series .
Series of magnesiuln , given by , wonld similarly become would also coalesce into the Pickering se ] lines of series are in fact not far removed from the Bahllel .
lines , while intermediate lines near the observed Pickering lines , as will be seen by comparing ables XIII .
and XV .
; lines near these positions might also be derived from the series of other elements in which approximates to .
The elative weakness of the Pickering series of proto-helium , as compared with ] 4686 , is matched in magnesium by the relatively low intensities of the analogous combination series A and B. The close relations between the lines of ( real and hypothetical ) and some of those of proto-helium simply ccounted for ) BOHR'S theory of the origin of these spectra .
The general fornlulae , in which and can only take integral values , may be written Hydrogen : for Balmer series .
Proto-helium : If were exactly equal to , alternate lines of the Pickering series would eyidently coincide with the Balmer series ; and the hypothetical series of hydrogen , given by in the first formula , would fall on alternate lines of the\ldquo ; 4686\ldquo ; series .
The hydrogen lines , according to the theory , are produced during the binding of an electron by an atomic nucleus a single positive charge , and those of protohelium during the binding of an electron by a nucleus having four times the mass and a double posibive charge .
If the mass of the electron were negligible in comparison with that of nucleus , wouId be equal to ) has shown that when correction is made for the mass of the electron , the tbeoretical ratio for these constants is in nearly perfect agreement with that of the values deduced from the spectroscopic observations .
His expression for the constant of the hydrogen series may be written The numcratiolt would ] ) the if } in the proto-helium formula were written ) to correspond with of magnesinm .
'Nature , ' 1913 , October 23 , p. 231 . .
CCXIV.\mdash ; A. 2 PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
where is velocity of is constant , , and the charge and mass of the electron , and and the charge and mass of the nucleus of the hydrogen atom .
In the case of , the value of is doubled and is increased four times .
The theoretical ratio between and is therefore Introducing the recognised yalue , the resulting ratio is , as compared with derived from the observations .
A spectroscopic metbod of determining the mass of the electron , from the constants of the and proto-helium series , is thus suggested .
The value of obtained from ( ROWLAND'S scale ) is , and combining this with hydrogen 109,675 , the resulting value for the mass of the hydrogen atom in terms of that of the electron is .
A similar calculation from wave-lengths on the International scale , using Mr. CURTIS'S new value of the hydrogen constant gives the ratio .
This result , however , is only to be regarded as provisional ; more exact measures of the proto-helium lines may be possible , and the formula employed may require a small correction for the alteration in the mass of the electron due to its velocity .
The assignment of the " " 4686 " " series to proto-helium may be considered to be independent of BOHR'S theory .
It really depends upon the recognition of the new class of series associated with enhanced lines , and the better accordance with experimental results .
Apart from the theory it might still be considered possible that the hydrogen spectrum , under appropriate conditions , would include the Rydberg lines .
The well-know1l line about 4686 which occurs in the solar chromosphere and , in some of the nebulae , however , is undoubtedly the proto-helium line , and there are no indications in these spectra of another line near 4688 which would correspond with the hypothetical line of hydrogen .
Until other evidence is forthcoming , it may therefore be considered that the line spectrum of , as required by BOHR'S theory , consists only of the Balmer series and parallel series in the infra-red and Schumann legions .
These are all included in the formula previously given .
The proto-helium spectrum is apparently of the same simple character as that of hydrogen , but the series in the infra-red and Schumann regions have not yet been investigated .
S13 .
, anced lielation to BOHR'S The apparently successful application of BOHR'S theory to the lines of proto-helium renders it desirable to consider briefly the implications of this theory as regards other systems of enhanced lines .
PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
Since enhanced lines have been to occur in families of series similar to those previously recognised in arc spectra , the only new theoretical problem presented by them is to account for the appearance of the series constant with four times the value associated with arc lines .
Otherwise , the extension of the simple formulae for protohelium to enhanced lines in general is identical with the extension of BALMER'S formulae for hydrogen to the ordinary systems of series of arc lines .
Hydrogen and proto-helium may thus be regarded as limiting cases of the two kinds of series .
Independently of the series evidence there are numerous indications that enhanced lines originate in vibrating systems differing from those which give rise to arc lines .
The mode of occurrence of the two sets of lines in the spectra of celestial bodies furnishes important evidence in favour of this view , and experimental evidence in the same direction is abundant .
The extensive researches of MSALECH on the phenomena of the spark discharge , for example , have revealed striking differences in the behaviour of the two classes of lines .
* It has been shown that in a durations of the enhanced lines of Ca , Sr , and Mg , are much shorter with respect to their intensities than those of the arc lines of ) same elements ; and in another investigation it was shown that the velocities of the particles emitting the enhanced lines of Ca were nearly twice as great as those of the particles producing the arc lines .
These experiments suggested that centres of emission of different constitution were concerned in the production of the two classes of lines , but hesitated to adopt this view until other experiments had been made .
The series investigation not only points to the existence of different emitting systems , but , in the light of BOHR'H theory , may possibly give a clue to the nature of the difference .
The appearance of in the formulae for series of enh need lines suggests that , as in the case of proto-belium , such series are produced during the binding of an electron by each of the atoms from which two electrons ve been removed by the exciting source ; while series are elnitted during the re-formation of atoms from each of which only one electron has been relYloved .
Although the neutral atoms of different elenlents contain different lllllnbers of , the approximate constancy of for arc series , according to BOHR , is explained by the fact that the force on an electron erltel.ing a system consisting of a positive nucleus and a number of electrons one less than that required to render it neutral would be very different from the force in the case of the binding of an electron by a hydrogen atom .
A similar explanation would evidently account for the ) of in the formulae for series of enhanced lines .
Variations the simple series conditions presented by hydrogen and proto-helium would expected in consequence of the presence of additional electrons , but these have not yet been worked out theoretically by Dr. BOHR .
'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 151 , pp. 220 and 668 ( 1910 ) .
'Comptes ReIldus , ' vol. , p. 873 ( 1912 ) .
PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
The varying facility with which enhanced lines can be produced in the spectra of different elements would seem to depend upon the intensities of the forces which bind the electrons to the nuclei .
In some elements , such as lithium , no enhanced lines at all have been observed .
The lithium atom is credited with three electrons , and BOHR'S calculations indicate that while the outer electron is lightly bound , the inner two are very strongly bound as compared with the electron in an atom of hydrogen , and even more rigidly than the two electrons in a helium atom .
Theory and experiment are thus in agreement , and the production of enhanced lines of lithium would appear to require more powerful spark discharges than those hitherto employed .
In the case of elements like calcium , which give enhanced lines of Class I. , it may be supposed that one electron is lightly bound , so that even a flame may effect its emoval , while a second is removable by the moderate increase in the energy of excitation when passing the flame to the .
The further increase in the intensities of the enhanced lines on passing to the spark may be attributed to the greater number of atoms from ] which ) two electrons are nultaneously detached .
In elements like iron , giving enhanced lines of Class II .
, the conditions may be supposed similar , except that the second electron is removed with solnewhat greater difficulty .
Enhanced lines like Mg 4481 require a modified explanation .
Although the series to which this line belongs is produced only under spark conditions ( or their equivalents in modified arcs ) it is important to bear in mind that the related system of Wide doublets , consisting of enhanced lines of Class I. , is developed in the ordinary arc .
Since the term appears in the formulae for both systems , BOHR'S theory would lead to the supposition that in this case the greater energy of the spark does not result in the separation of a third electron any of the atoms but merely produces some change in the configuration of the atomic systems .
The experimental data are not sufficiently complete to justify the conclusion that such an explanation ] would be applicable to all enhanced lines of Class III .
If , by any means , three electrons could be separated from the nucleus , the appearance of lines for which bhe series constant raised to would be expected , if BOHR'S theory is a safe guide .
Great energy would apparently be needed to bring about this result , and no such series have yet been recognised .
A sufficient increase in the energy of excitation would presumably yield series requiring still greater multiples of the constant in the formula .
It will be observed that BOHR'S theory gives a more definite conception to LOCKYER'S earlier view that the varying spectra given by the same substance represent the vibrations of " " molecular groupings such groupings being simplified by successive dissociations brought about by increase of temperature or electrical excitation .
It should be noted that some of the conclusions drawn by STARK from his experiments on canal-ray spectra are inconsistent with the views of BOHR .
In the case of helium , STARK has found that the Doppler displacements are smaller for the doublet PROF .
A. FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
series ( helium group ) than for the single line series parhelium " " group ) , and he infers that the atoms which act as carriers in the former case have a single positive charge , while in the second case there is a double positive Both sets of series , however , are of the " " arc\ldquo ; type , with for the series constant , whereas on BOHR'S theory , one should be of the , and the other of the type if STARK'S deduction is correct .
In the case of aluminium , STARK has similarly found evidence of atoms with one , two , and three positive charges .
The first is associated with the doublets of the arc spectrum , the second with a spark line at , and the third with three spark lines at , and .
Attention is drawn to the fact that the charges are connected with the enhanced lines , and differences in the behaviour of the two sets of spark lines when the spark is passed in hydrogen are indicated .
The series to which the spark lines of aluminium belong have not yet been recognised , but results for this element are in general agreement with the conclusion indicated by BOHR'S theory that enhanced lines are associated with atoms of greater positive charges than those rise to rc lines .
In the case of it does llot seelll possible ) reconcile STARK'S conclusions with those of BOHR , since the ubly a , on BOHR'S theory , can only give rise to the system of series of which 4686 is the leading member .
STARK'S conclusions are equally at variance with those of LENARD , who found reason to believe that while principal series are produced neutral atoms , the subordinate series originate in atoms which have become positively charged through the loss of one or more electrons .
BOHR'S theory differs from both in leading to the conclusion that all series having the same series constant should be produced tolns having the same charge .
A knowledge of the charges of the atoms giving the arc enhanced lines respectively would possibly aid in the interpretation of the peculiarities of the spectrum of the solar chromospbere , and further estigations bearing 011 this subject very desirable .
Whatever may be its significance in connection with the atom , the change in the character of the series passing from arc to spark lines suggests the spectra of " " early-type\ldquo ; stars as a possible source of series requiring still greater multiples of the ordinary series constant in the rmulae representing them .
In passing from the later to the earlier type stars , as shown by the work of and others , the arc lines of various metallic elements are gradually replaced by need lines , while lines of hydrogen , helium , and other gases become more prominent .
For such metallic elements as are known to belong to series , the change is definitely from series of arc ( N ) type to series of the spark ( 4N ) type .
A considerable number of lines remain ' Ann. der Physik , ' vol. 40 , p. 540 ( 1913 ) .
'Ann .
der Physik , ' vol. 42 , p. 254 'Ann .
der Physik , ' vol. 17 , p. 197 1905 ) .
without identification , but a preliminary examination of these has given no certain evidence of series for the series constant would be The Wolf-Rayet bright-line stars are of special interest in this connection , as they are generally considered to represent the first stage in the condensation of nebulous matter into stars , and in many of them the proto-helium lines are a prominent feature .
NICHOLSON has suggested that some of the lines may belong to series which can be represented , in wave-lengths , by the formula where 3646 is the limit of the hydrogen series .
* The lines were regarded as a possible extension of the hydrogen spectrum , but on the supposition that other lines associated with them may coincide with the Balmer series , Dr. BOHR has pointed out that lines be united in a single series and might be attributed to lithium .
The electron by a lithium atom from which the three electrons been wonld , on rise to such a , namely , or This hypothetical series would thus be of the " " \ldquo ; type , but its existence in this form is not confirmed by the , observational data .
Omitting the lines which would coincide with the ordinary lines of ogen , the earlier nnembers of the series would be 5697 , 5193 , 4633 , 4466 , 4243 , \amp ; c. Of these only the first , third , and fourth are possibly represented in the , and since the intensities should degrade in order in passing from red to violet , the absence of a line at 5193 is conclusive ) that the observed lines do not form a series of the " " \ldquo ; type .
In further discussion of the spectra of the Wolf-Rayet stars , NICHOLSON has arranged most of the lines in it number of series of a different character , in which the Rydberg constant is replaced by various fractioned parts of its value for hydrogen .
The numerical relations traced in this way vely striking , but the individual series indicated are very fragmentary , and such lines do not always occur together in the same star .
The suggested series also remarkable as involving different fractional values of the ydberg constant for series proceeding to the same limit .
The general progression from series of the type to those of the type in passing through the stellar sequence would suggest further change , if any , would be in the direction of multiples , rather than fractions , of in the series formulae .
It is 'Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' vol. 73 , p. 382 'Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' vol. 74 , p. 118 ( 1914 ) .
PROF .
A. ON SFRIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
doubtful , however , whether any ) eyond that represented by enhanced lines should be expected .
It is now easy to produce a spectum in which the proto-helium line 4686 exceeds any of the ordinary helium lines in brightness , and from the persistence of the ordinary helium lines in many of the Wolf-Rayet stars it seems reasonable to infer that even in these stars the conditions are not indefinitely in advarlce of those obtainable in laboratory experiments .
S ( 1 ) The enhanced ( spark ) lines of gnesium , calcium , strontium , nd rium form series of doublets which occur in groups similar to those previously recognised in arc spectra .
The formulae representing these series , however , differ those employed for arc lines in that ) constant " " " " ( for ROWLAND'S scale ) has a value equal to ( 2 ) The Fundamental series , in the Doublet systems of calcium , strontium , an barium , as shown by SAUNDERS and , derives its limit and the separation of its components from an term of the Diffuse series .
In the case of magnesium , the corresponding negative term of the Diffuse series , and the Fundamental series which might have been expected , do not exist .
( 3 ) A new group of series of narrower doublets has been found in magnesium , in which the separation of ths Sharp and Diffuse pairs is identical with the ( calculated ) separation of the second pair of the Principal series of wider doublets .
new group is designated the " " F.P.\ldquo ; system ; in addition to the ordinary series it includes two well-marked combination series , each consisting of seven observed lines .
( 4 ) The " " 4481 " " series of magnesium consists of very close doublets with constant separation , and forms the series of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; system .
Its limits are derived from the first llegative term of the Diffuse series .
( 5 ) Corresponding series of the ( \ldquo ; Wide doublet run parallel to each other , but notwithstanding this numerical relation , the two syste ms do not necessarily co-exist , wider doublets in th ordinary as well in the spark , while the " " F.P.\ldquo ; group occurs only under spark conditions or equivalent in the region of the negative pole of an in ) ( 6 ) No llnmerical relations have been ofnced line series and the series of arc lines the same element .
( 7 ) The " " 4686 " " series produced in tubes is of the need line ( 4N ) and can no longel be considered to belong to snme roup as Bahner series of hydrogen , is the type .
lt is concluded ) thefie lines due to helium , as indicated by D BOHR frol theoretical considerations .
It is suggested that they should be designated " " proto-helium\ldquo ; lines .
( 8 ) Analogy with the " " 4481 " " series of magnesium indicates that the\ldquo ; 4686\ldquo ; series of proto-helium is primarily of the Fundamental type ; the three associated series may be regarded as coincident with it .
( 9 ) The " " Pickering\ldquo ; lines associated with the 4686\ldquo ; series are also probably due to proto-helium , in which case the series would include lines nearly coincident with the Balmer series .
The observational evidence on this point is incomplete , .
but the assignment of these lines to proto-helium is supported by the fact that one of the new combination series of magnesium is related to the " " 4481 " " series exactly as the extended Pickering series would be related to the " " 4686\ldquo ; series .
( 10 ) The slight differences between the observed positions of alternate lines of the ' ' 4686\ldquo ; series and those calculated by RYDBERG for the\ldquo ; Principal\ldquo ; series of hydrogen are in very close agreement with BOHR'S theoretical formulae for hydrogen and protohelium .
Adopting these formulae , the spectroscopic data give a provisional value for the mass of the hydrogen atom , in terms of that of the electron , as ; or when the data are corrected to the International scale of wave-lengths .
( 11 ) The appearance of the constant in enhanced lines series with four times its usual value may be explained on BOHB'S theory by supposing that series of the arc type are produced when only one electron is removed from each of the atoms involved , while in the case of enhanced lines two electrons are removed .
( 12 ) A preliminary examination of terrestrial and celestial spectra has given no indications of series requiring still greater multiples of the Rydberg constant in the formulae representing them .
The author has pleasure in acknowledging his obligations to Mr. W. JEVONS , A.RC .
S. , D.I.C. , B.Sc. , who has taken the new photographs of the magnesium spectrum , and has .
given much valuable assistance in other ways .
APPENDIX .
The wave-lengths ( on the International scale ) of the enhanced lines of magnesium , as observed in the arc in vacuo in the course of the foregoing investigation , are brought together in Table XVI .
The ters indicating the series to which the lines belong have the significance given in description of Plate 3 .
For completeness additional lines observed by LORENSER and by LYMAN are also included .
PROF .
, FOWLER ON SERIES LINES IN SPARK SPECTRA .
VOL. CCXIV.\mdash ; A. 2 DESCRIPTION 0F PLATE .
The photographs are of the spectrum of the magnesium arc in vacuo .
The letters indicate the series to which the lines belong , and have the following significance:\mdash ; Enhanced lines Enhanced lines DiffusePrincipal series Wide doublet system .
Sharp Principal DiffuseSharp Fundamental series " " F.P.\ldquo ; doublet system .
Combination combination linesB Arc lines \ldquo ; 1 , 2 , 3 show .
chiefly the two Combination series of enhanced lines and the " " F.P.\ldquo ; doublets near the Fundamental line 4 , 5 show further members of the " " F.P.\ldquo ; system and the Wide doublets in the ultra-violet .
6 , 7\mdash ; Grating , 4th order\mdash ; enlarged about eleven times .
and 3105 respectively , each with a longer and a shorter exposure .
8 , the Combination doublet near the Diffuse triplet .
Lines of impurities \mdash ; Na , , Ca , Ba , H. Bands of magnesium hydride .
Fo wle Phil.

