102 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On Action exerted hy certain Bakerian Lecture.\#151 ; " Further Experiments on the Actio exerted by certain Metals and other Bodies on a Phot( graphic Plate .
" By W. J. Russell , Ph. D. , V.P.R.S. R\lt ; ceived February 10 , \#151 ; Read March 24 , 1898 .
In a paper read before this Society in June last* it was state that certain metals , alloys , and other substances such as pictur copal , printing ink , straw board , \amp ; c. , were able to act even at i distance on a sensitive photographic plate , producing effects simila m appearance and developed in the same way as plates which hat been acted on by ordinary light .
At that time sufficient experi mental evidence had not been obtained to determine the nature o this action , or even to clearly indicate its general character , whethe ' m tact the action arose from vapour given off by the active body or whether phosphorescence was produced which acted on the plate ' ^ !
hghtlyvolatile as zinc\gt ; aluminium , nickel , .
+6 a 6 ' \#163 ; lve 0:\#174 ; ordinary temperatures in a few days !
aCt strongly on a Photographic plate , and tbit gelatin ^ 1^1 S-j'U f. a^e to Pass rapidly through media , such as rn^inv ' uloid'collodlon\gt ; seemed difficult to realise , although iv i ; ' , \#171 ; e eaV ler exPeriments appeared to indicate that this was .11 . ?
10n w^^oh took place .
Later experiments confirm on the plate^ \amp ; vaPour is given off , which is the cause of the action on pip * -u 'r^ard\#174 ; bodies , as well as metals , have been shown to act natnl Pn^raPhlc Plat*\gt ; and in endeavouring to ascertain the unrip .
, v 1S acj lon exPer"iments with organic bodies were first rapid !
v nhf ^ a resu^s which they yield are more easily and action7wn^tATd than th'Se with the metals , and if their mode of exerted bj the^etols '1^''\#163 ; **IohMy throw .
" S1* on the action I , n ^oriner communication it was stated in direcfp g/ n. ^ C'pal Varnish are active substances , both when from it it a Photographic plate and when at a distance was ablp f Ur WaS ^ounc^ that the action which , they exerted and cot paS8.'hro"eh difforent media .
Although printing inks main cT^rT 63 " nsiderably in composition , the boded nP sT are.const " ' .
hence it was easy to determine that activity aa .
^Peotine were the bodies to which they owed their war l dt , .
theSe b'dieS separately behaved in the same linseed oi lafc " l1 ''Pal varnish .
Boiled oil\#151 ; that is\#174 ; substance Wd10h ha3 .been heated with oxide of lead\#151 ; is an active substance , and most of the following experiments have been made * 'Rov .
Soo .
Proe .
, ' vol. 61 , p. 424 .
Metals and other Bodies on a Photographic Plate .
nth the pale drying oil which is prepared by Messrs. Winsor nd Newton .
Pare turpentine is also a very active substance , and , wing to its volatility , in many experiments very useful .
These todies can be used either as liquids in small dishes or by saturat-ng Bristol board or other neutral and porous bodies , such as ignited mmice stone , \amp ; e. , with them .
In the case of the drying oil it can )e painted on glass or cardboard and allowed to harden .
The experiments described in the former communication have been .epeated under the same and under slightly different conditions and n another laboratory ; the results obtained with one exception confirm the previous statements .
Glass , selenite , mica , even in very hin layers , are absolutely opaque to the action , whereas gelatin , jelluloid , collodion , guttapercha tissue , tracing paper , parchment , md paper are more or less transparent .
Linseed oil and turpentine nay fairly be taken as typical examples of active organic bodies .
This property of acting on the photographic plate is far from belonging to all volatile organic bodies ; for instance , although vegetable oils have the power of acting , mineral oils , so far as they have \gt ; even tried , have not the power .
Benzene , carbon disulphide , chloro-orm , \amp ; c. , also are without this power of acting on the photographic date ; but the question of what substances are and what are not ictive will be dealt with on another occasion ; at present it is simply o consider the conditions under which linseed oil and turpentine act on the photographic plate .
The picture copal varnish which was much used in the former experiments obviously owes its activity to the turpentine and the oil it contains .
Warm the varnish for some length of time , these bodies are driven off and an inactive gum remains .
This experiment obviously suggests a vapour as the cause of the action ; at the same time would such a vapour pass through bodies such as gelatin , celluloid , \amp ; c. ?
With regard , for instance , to the thin-sheet gelatin , it appears to offer but very slight obstruction to the action of these organic bodies ; if the thickness of the gelatin be increased still the action takes place , only the time of exposure has to be considerably longer.* Another striking fact with regard to this emanation from these active bodies is that it gives an accurate picture of the surface from which it has come .
A hard copal surface on glass will give a picture showing every brush mark , unevenness , and scratch on the surface , and if the action take place through a thin sheet of gelatin , or even as many as six or more sheets , still the picture of the scratches is distinct .
The following [ experiments are apparently strong evidence that the action on the photographic plate is due to the vapour given olf from these organic bodies .
A piece of Bristol board saturated with drying oil , or a piece of # The thin gelatin is 0 02 mm. and the thick 0'10 mm. in 1 hickness .
104 Dr. W.J. Russell .
On Action exerted by certain glass painted with it or with picture copal , is placed on the bottoi of an ordinary plate box and a photographic plate larger than th active body is suspended above it with the film upwards ; light i excluded from the box , and the arrangement is left for , say , a for !
night , then the plate when developed will be found to have bee acted on irregularly round its edge , at some parts considerably mor ' than at others , but everywhere shading off and evidently in the wa which would occur if a vapour had rolled round the edge .
Anothei experiment which showed this kind of action very satisfactorily wa , carried out as followsA circular piece of the Bristol board wat saturated with drying oil , and at a little distance above it a smallei circle of mica , which is perfectly opaque to the action , was placed , and again above this was another piece of mica with a circular hole smaller than the circular mica plate , and then the photographic .plate was placed above .
By this arrangement no direct action could take place between the drying oil and the sensitive plate , but la vapour could work its way between the mica plates and thus reach the photographic plate ; and this it did , for after an exposure of three days , on developing the plate there was a dark ring formed shading off towards the centre .
Another and very simple expert ment illustrating this same point is to place a small circular glass dish , with some drying oil in it , in the middle of a photographic plate ; h and leave it there for a week .
On developing the plate it will be L found that no action has taken place where the dish stood , but that immediately beyond the outside of the dish much action has occurred , I and that the darkening gradually fades away .
There is still another way m which the action of these organic bodies has been tested , and |j that is by transferring the active power of these bodies to a neutral substance .
If vapour be the immediate cause of the darkening of the photographic plate , then it would be possible , if a piece of Bristol board were suspended above drying oil , for instance , for the inactive-board to take up those vapours and become photographically active !
This was found to take place .
Bristol board of good quality is a very useful substance in all these experiments , both as a screen and ' as an absorbent It is in itself an inactive body , and may be heated* m a water bath before using , to prevent the accidental presence of J any substance which might act on the plate .
If a piece of the !
Bristol board be suspended above , drying oil , in the liquid or solid 1 state or turpentine or picture copal for two or three days , or even 1 less it becomes strongly active , and when placed in contact withal p lotographic plate quickly darkens it .
This action of the Bristol | oar is well shown if a pattern be stamped upon it , which is easily II done by pressing against it a piece of white net ( black net must not 1 be used as it is slightly active ) , then the charged Bristol board will 1 give an unmistakable picture .
If turpentine be the active subMetals and other Bodies on a Photographic Plate .
105 ince used to charge the Bristol board the exposure need only be for few hours , but if after this charging it be exposed to the air for a j or two , its activity will be found to have gone .
There is viously no visible indication of this activity of the Bristol board , id consequently if a device be cut out on a screen which is placed in ont of a sheet of cardboard , or any inactive paper , and it is exposed , turpentine or to oil , or if the vapour of these bodies be in any , her way brought in contact with the paper , a dark picture of such 3vice , which is not visible , may be produced .
Some unexpected and irious cases of ghostly pictures thus formed have been met with , they re , however , all produced in this way , and need not be described now .
he above experiments have been made at ordinary temperatures , but the temperature be increased the activity of these organic bodies is Iso greatly increased .
High temperatures cannot , of course , be used , ut a temperature of 55 ' C. does not appear to alter the photographic late .
With drying oil\#151 ; which is one of the most active substances hat has been used\#151 ; it is easy to obtain a picture in thirty minutes at he above temperature .
The interesting pictures which in the former ommunication it was shown could be produced simply by laying a iece of dry wood or the section of the branch of a tree on a plate re produced by the volatile matter contained in the wood .
These pictures appear at first sight very accurate and complete , but this is lot really eo , for some parts of the structure of the wood are not ihown and other parts are too strongly developed , depending on the imount of volatile substance present in the different parts .
It is , aowever , very remarkable that so small a quantity of the volatile body as exists in a piece of dry wood should be able to produce a picture ; the activity of the wood is increased by the presence of moisture .
This property of acting on the photographic plate , possessed by the linseed oil , belongs apparently to the vapour and not to the oil itself , for if a sheet of thin gelatin be placed on a photographic plate , and on it a thick glass ring nearly filled with oil , and over the top of the ring another sheet of gelatin , not in contact with the oil , and another sensitive plate , it will be found that after a week 's exposure no action has taken place below the oil , but that a large amount has occurred above it where the vapour lias penetrated the upper sheet of gelatin .
A similar result is also obtained by simply floating a piece of the thin gelatin on a dish of oil and placing a sensitive plate above .
At the sides where the vapour can form and get away there is action on the plate ; in the centre there is none .
In addition to glass , mica , and bodies of that kind , the action does not take place through a layer , except it be very thin , of either gum arabic or of paraffin .
If a piece of Bristol board or a glass plate has hardened drying oil on it , and be painted over with a stiong solution of gum arabic which is allowed to dry , then the delicate 106 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On Action exerted by certain cracking which occurs can be very well shown on a photograglc plate* Pure water does not act on the plate , neither does pure alcoholf pure ether , but the ordinary commercial specimens of the last % bodies do , and often to a considerable extent .
Alcohol which m duces a dark picture will , after digestion with lime and careful d filiation , be entirely inactive , and ether after careful purification al becomes inactive .
Moisture , if present , does not affect this res| thus the presence of certain impurities , and they appear to be so* of the most common ones , can be readily photographed , and approi .mately their amount determined by the darkness of the picture forme so that by this means can be determined whether , for instance purification process is working well and whether it has complete ] done its work The pictures are easily obtained by placing some \lt ; the liquid to be tested m a small glass dish , and a sensitive plat above it .
Obviously it is only certain impurities which will be indi cated in this way , but the reaction is otherwise of considerabl importance for it gives a simple method of determining what body soluble in these liquids , are capable of acting on a sensitive plat* Thml^a^er Wl1 be treated of ln a separate communication .
That the vapour given off by these organic bodies is the imme diate cause of the action on the sensitive plate the above experiment !
seem to show .
At the same time it is remarkable that such a vapom s muld readily pass through media such as gelatin , celluloid , \amp ; c. , and no by mere absorption , but in such a way as to produce a picture oi the surface from which it emanated .
\#166 ; .
jB IrrfnTw T " tio11 wUch 'ertain " etals exert on a photograplnc pkte results have been obtained which are strikingly similar tTJTk de7lbad- \#174 ; nbstitute a piece of polished sine for a piece nLd , ?
ee^ board grated with linseed oil , and similar effects are ever bp on a P ' ''ffrephic plate ; the time of exposure must , how-2 , f'Ugh b'th " aS"8inm and cadmium are onftl ev 1\#153 ; *ban sine , this last metal is the most convenient I one to experiment with , and has been used in most of the following j nium Wl a J v * ' the above three metals , nickel , alumidevelonedd'of drSmf *nhaTe *he SatI , e Pr0Pert7 .
but not so strongly a iilmtL\#153 ; , ,* , i " ?
' b ' ?
f hen m c'ntact and when at a distance , on I same wav hot ILo 6* ^ ?
'ba|t ' tin , anc* antimony can also act in tbi other mJml * " a0^10n 18 considerably feebler , and undoubtedly extosurT M'an a'* ; nnthe 6ame Wa^ ' b"4 require nmch lend mostTL .
/ TZ ' ^ m 'he former Paper was stated to be th\#171 ; " it !
Z\#153 ; of a " the me , ( al8 which had been tried , is now found to hi This matter will be^x\#153 ; airddtelVor " 6IPerimentS imPnre ' rong a similarity exists between the effects produced by Metals and other Bodies on a Photographic Plate .
107 e above-mentioned organic bodies and the metals , the question liich naturally presents itself is , do they also give off a vapour hich directly or indirectly acts on the photographic plate ?
The llowing experiments show that such an action does probably occur , inc which has been long exposed to the air is inactive .
An expo-ire out of doors for only three or four days diminishes very con-derably its activity , but covered up in doors after three weeks it ill still give a tolerably dark picture .
If it has a bright but per-sctly smooth surface it is active , but not strongly so ; rub the zinc .ith coarse sand or emery paper , and it is then obtained in its state f greatest activity ; the same applies to all the metals .
If , when in his condition , any of the active metals be placed in contact with a hotographic plate , a beautifully sharp picture of the scratched sur-ace is obtained .
The great increase of the fresh metallic surface .reduced by the rubbing may account for the increase of activity which the scratching produces .
If the zinc plate be raised only lightly above the photographic plate , a sharp picture of the scratches s still obtained , and of course as the distance is increased , so is the ndistinctness of the picture increased , and at last it fades into a ; eneral cloudiness , and in this form the zinc plate can easily be made o act through the distance of an inch or more .
This action of the metals passes through the same media as do the vapours from the organic bodies , and clear pictures can be obtained hrough sheets of thin gelatin , \amp ; c. ; in fact what has already been laid with regard to the transmission of the activity of the organic bodies applies to the metals ; gelatin , both thin and thick , allows the action of the metal to pass through it ; celluloid and collodion do the same , and so does gold-beaters skin and tracing paper .
Reasoning , then , from this strong analogy between the action of the organic and the metallic bodies , it must be assumed that the above-mentioned metals from a clean surface and at ordinary temperatures g|ve vapour , and this vapour apparently acts when under the same ciicum-stances in a like manner to the vapour given off by the drying oil .
It gives a clear picture of the metal surface from which it arose , and it can permeate the same media as the organic vapours .
The remaik-ably clear pictures of , for instance , a zinc surface , which can be produced through a sheet , or even several sheets , of the thin gelatin proves that the action is not one of mere absorption .
To gain further knowledge on this point and test the porosity o these different media , the power of hydrogen to diffuse through them was tried by cementing specimens of the different substances on glass tubes , which were filled with hydrogen and placed over watei .
The action is somewhat remarkable , but requires further confix matt tion .
With the thin gelatin ordinary diffusion does not occur , and a hardly , if any , perceptible rise of the water in the tube 108 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On the Action exerted by certain occurs on starting the experiment ; but on standing for some W of time , two or three days , the water begins to rise and ji a week or more it will stand at a height of four or more i\#163 ; above the level in the vessel , and there it remains at least 12 !
month or more .
With the thick gelatin there is no evidence of * !
diffusion occurring .
Celluloid acts much in the same way as il thm gelatin , a column of water gradually rises and remains the The action of the guttapercha tissue is to absorb the hydrogen- t diffusion tube completely fills up with water and remains full with* showing any tendency to fall for a couple of months , and then h experiment was stopped .
With tracing paper diffusion occurs the ordinary manner , and the same happened in the single exnl meant tried with gold-beater 's skin .
That the rise of the wat in the diffusion tubes is not owing to a mere absorption of t !
hydrogen by the gelatin or guttapercha has been proved by placii a considerab16 quantity of these bodies in a tube sealed up at 01 end , filled with hydrogen and inverted over water ; after seven weeks no rise of the water in the tube occurred .
The above exper ments hare been repeated with the same results , but further trial are being made .
Possibly the metallic vapour is in a still fim molecular state than ordinary hydrogen , and thus is able easily t permeate a medium which hydrogen can only slowly get throng and air cannot get through .
At all events , this may be looked upon .
lor the moment as a working hypothesis .
, tte aot !
on '* the metals I'ke that of the organic bodies i to th'irT T b6udr'"Strated V experiments exactly simila : arranged aiT* ^ eSCn 7 ^0r lnstance\gt ; if the thin mica plates bf cnt^I all d 7 T ' 7 ' " the wa* already mentioned , so as tc of Li " " I a'a betW6eU th9 zino a\#187 ; d sensitive plate , a ring of action !
S produced which can only be accounted for by supposing mieaPa"d theSent'-Wd1Ch ^ Worked its way between the sheets ol Seceof Ri ?
, !
" '16 ?
a'0e8S * ' the Photographic plate .
Again , a proximity to ' b'ard 7* be made aotive b-\gt ; ' eontaet with , or mere \#171 ; Ze7n%\#163 ; ' \lt ; rce '\#163 ; P'lished 2in'- A \#171 ; ng instance of this on the botto 0 owing way ; a piece of perforated zinc had lain : W nrob !
b7 .".t ^ P'ate box toT a considerable length of Tl *T m'nth8 ; the 2in0 \#171 ; \#166 ; *haa taken Lay , plate aTt F t Tped into its P'a"- 0a developing thta meL oFf .
, t- PefWed \#153 ; obtained .
Other expo JI " !
\#163 ; " f a 81mlIar kind have been made .
If the Bristol board be 7 be tL / , ,thS2in ' * " a screen ' with holes cut out in j exposed to +F'Sj .
' t wr 1 be found that the Bristol board where I " ; P an e f 77 a't,0 ' 'f the zin0 wiU become active , and will which L.T P ' Flre ' 'be h'les or whatever design it .
may be which has been cut out on the screen .
To produce this effect the I Metals and other Bodies on a Photographic Plate .
109 rdboard has to be exposed to the zinc for fully six weeks .
This anging of the Bristol board does not take place satisfactorily ove ordinary temperatures .
With other metals than zinc , these anging effects have not as yet been obtained .
Another experiment , which illustrates the way in which the etals can act , is to take a piece of ordinary perforated zinc , polish le side , and lay this polished side against a plate of plain glass in printing frame , then place the photographic plate against the dull de of the perforated zinc , and leave it in the dark for three or four ays ; then , on developing the plate , a reversed picture is obtained , lat is , the holes in the zinc will be represented by dark spaces , and ae zinc itself by light ones .
If the holes in the perforated zinc are trge , they are represented by shaded circles , so that these pictures re produced by the vapour emitted by the polished zinc which has rept into the open spaces and thus gained access to the plioto-raphic plate .
It has already been shown that the action exerted y zinc passes more readily down a glass than down a paper tube of he same size ; this has been strikingly , confirmed by taking two deces of glass tubing 1 inch long f inch in diameter ; inside one single coil of inactive paper wTas placed , and both tubes stood on , sheet of polished zinc , and a photographic plate rested on the op of them .
They were then left for a week , and on developing the ( late , a black patch appeared above the tube without the paper , and no action was visible above the one with the paper .
Without \#166 ; emoving the paper , it was painted over with melted paiaffin , and igain a photographic plate put on the top of the two tubes ; now two circular dark patches were produced of equal intensity .
If the activity of the zinc depends on a vapour which it emits , it seemed possible that it could be carried along by a stream of air .
In order to ' , try whether this was the case , a tube a foot long was packed with zinc turnings which had been amalgamated , and a stream of pure air sent through it .
The end of the tube was fixed into the side of a dark box and a sensitive plate with a screen upon it suspended above it , thus no direct action could be exerted by the amalgamated zinc on the plate .
The experiment was continued for four days , then , on developing the plate , a picture of the screen above where the tube entered the box was obtained , but at the other end of the plate there was no action .
The presence of mercury in this experiment was unsatisfactory , and might account for the result obtained , therefore an exactly similar experiment was made , and zinc turnings alone were used and a plate without a screen .
The experiment was carried on for a week , and it was then found that a black patch had been pioduced imnie diately above the end of the tube .
To be sure that this daikenm , .
, did not arise from the action of the air , the whole of the zinc was 110 Dr. W. J. Kusseli .
On Action exerted by certain removed from the tube and again the air sent through it f0* i week , the sensitive plate showed no signs of any action having take \lt ; place .
To try whether any accumulation of the vapour , and hence * increase of action could be brought about by an increase of \#163 ; surface , two small circular glass dishes were taken , about 1^ incht in diameter and \#163 ; inch in depth ; into one a single disc of bri|l zinc foil was placed , and in the other twenty similar discs , then jo the top of both vessels a photographic plate was placed .
The singl disc was raised on a piece of glass , so both end discs were at the sam distance from the plate .
The discs were a little smaller than th ; glass vessels , and , owing to their not being quite flat , there was \#171 ; space between each one .
In two experiments there was no marked difference between the density of the pictures produced , the single disc produced as much effect as the twenty .
A more direct way for the passing off of the vapour was then made by cutting a circular hole # inch in diameter through the centre of all the zinc discs , and now a very black central spot was formed by the twenty zincs , and of course there was a white spot with the single disc , so that the vapour accumulated to a considerable extent in this central space 1 It has already been mentioned that the statement in the former paper that mercury was the most active of the metals is incorrect ji The error arose from not suspecting that a trace of any impurity I ] would affect the activity of the mercury , and , consequently , not 1 taking special precautions to insure its perfect purity .
On repeat- | ing the former experiments with another sample of mercury it was I found that no action occurred , which seemed very remarkable* moisture was added , the temperature was increased , but still no actum took place ; the addition of a little zinc to the mercury was then tried and it was found that this made the mercury excessively ^tT'^The'PreSenCe 'f a Very small quantity of zinc is able to ' effect this change , certainly less than l/ 300th per cent. It is I very remarkable that so small an amount of the metal can cause so strong an action on the photographic plate , for the exposure to the I vapour given off by such an amalgam need not , even at ordinary !
temperature , be longer than two to three days .
If other active !
etals are dissolved in pure mercury they act in the same way , at f events , this applies to magnesium and to lead .
If silver , on the* contrary , be added it does not render mercury active , nor does !
sodium .
This action of mercury , which contains zinc or lead , the* i common impurities , is so readily recognised that it becomes a I valuable test for its purity , and a very interesting means of follow-1 xng the effect produced by any purifying process .
A specimen off mercury containing not more than l/ 300th per cent , of zinc gave a 1 very dark picture ; this mercury was then treated first with sulph-1 Metals and other Bodies on a Photographic Plate .
Ill ric acid and afterwards , for three days , with nitric acid , and the ptui'e it then gave was very faint , and on repeating this purifying .ocess no picture at all was produced .
Again , a sample of mercury mtaining zinc was carefully distilled .
The distillate gave a very int but very distinct picture .
Another sample of distilled mercury s50 gave a faint picture .
Temperature , as might be expected , affects greatly this activity the metals ; at 4 ' or 5 ' C. zinc has but little action on a photo-.aphic plate .
Most of the foregoing experiments have been made , about 17 ' or 18 ' 0 .
, and some , as specially noted , at 55 ' C. The ford special rapid plates have been used .
It appears , then , from the above experiments that certain metals ave the property of giving off , even at ordinary temperatures , apour which affects a sensitive photographic plate , that this vapour m be carried along by a cunent of air , and that it has the power of assing through thin sheets of such bodies as gelatin , celluloid , ollodion , \amp ; c. , in fact , so transparent are these bodies to the vapour aat , even after it has passed through them , it is able to produce clear ictures of the surface of the metal from which it came .
That much amains to discover with regard to this action of the metals is bvious , the most active metals are not the most volatile .
Nickel is ery active , cobalt only very slightly so , copper and iron are practically oactive .
I hope before long to be able to bring before the Society jrther developments of these curious actions , both of metals and rganic bodies .
The foregoing experiments have been made in the 13 a vi - Kara day aboratory , and I beg to thank the managers of the Royal Institu-ion for having allowed me to work in their laboratory .
My thanks i , re also due to my assistant , Mr. Block , for the very careful and ntelligent way in which he has aided me with the experiments .
March 24 , 1898.\#151 ; Additional experiments have been made with ictive organic substances , in order to determine to what class of jodies they belong .
As already stated , linseed oil and turpen-iine were the two substances first found to be very active organic oodies , and following out these results it has been proved that vegetable oils in general have more or less this property of acting on a photographic plate .
Linseed oil , for instance , is very active , olive hi only very slightly so .
Even samples of u pure linseed oil ob-itained from the different artists ' colourmen vary considerably in the amount of action which they exert .
The boiled , or drying linseed oil , has , at ordinary temperatures , the same activity as the ordinary oil , but under other conditions it appears there is some difference in their action .
Another class of bodies , also called oils , namely the essential oils , have been found to be very active substances .
112 Action of certain Metals , on a Photographic Plate .
Samples of commercial specimens of the following essential 4 have been tried .\#151 ; Peppermint , lemons , pine , juniper , bergam , winter green , lavender , cloves , eucalyptus , cajeput , and cedr ; and were all found to be active , and not only when used I themselves , but also when dissolved in a large amount of tM-alcohol .
It is well known that the active substances in the essenti oils are bodies known as terpenes , and I have to thank Dr. Tilden f( supplying me with pure specimens of these bodies ; they are all \lt ; them remarkably active .
Paraldehyde and benzaldehyde are ah very active bodies .
Ordinary aldehyde and formaldehyde , as the have been at present applied , are only slightly active .
Guaiacun both when m powder and in alcoholic solution , is active , and so ai powdered cinnamon , sweet spirits of nitre , and eau de colo J Brandy is slightly so .
Now the important property belonging to al these bodies is their reducing or oxygen-absorbing power ?
hence tfa , conclusion that it is this property which enables them to act on th photographic plate The mineral oils , purified petroleum spirit suchasethjl acetate , benzene , nitrobenzene are all , when pure unable to produce any effect on a sensitive plate , and even oxidised bodies nearly related to the terpenes , such as ter pmol and camphor , are not active , neither is thymol .
Terebene [ an exceedingly active body .
The difference of activity of the ordi-S* oils seems to follow their oxygen-absorbing power , at all events it actTve of t^-f ' ^ 'Hve 'ilS ' f'r tte f\#151 ; is the most 186 'llS ' digram of it is said to be capable of absorbing 2/ c2 'rf ''I**"'I - tHe Same WGight 'f olive oil can absorb tWeor v V-8 alS ' mterestinS to note that , at least with some of whatTfh !
Ve bodies , ,results can be obtained which correspond to mol^d graP rlit6T S0larisati0n ^ reversal , the action , when white on'egmng a blaCk picture ' when carried to its full extent a curt alr ?
a ?
7- , been Stat6.d that a mere trace of zinc makes mer-a trace of ' certamly equally curious and unexpected that ; nure alcohol10 S T* i ma .
6 a*c'b'l active .
It is only necessary to take !
the metal I and Place m some strips of bright zinc foil , leaving | alcohol ca1 1U ff'r+ hre ?
'r f'Ur days* Ifc wil1 then be found that the [ with etbe a r+TgIT a Photographic plate .
The same happens to lf 7 h eth^lacetate\gt ; ^t not with benzene .
In addition in the 1 'a mmm ' " aSnesiu\#153 ; \gt ; aluminium , and fusible metal can act in the same way whereas lead , nickel , tin , silver , sodium , and , as far ?
owe Per^ T gone , all the inactive metals , have no such that ^ f 10j 18 being investigated , but certain it is j doe^inationXeird^y\#153 ; 0\#153 ; **** fr 'm a,0'ho1 ' n'r |

