1888 .
] On the Structure , 8fC .
, of Fossil Reptilia .
Table II .
Observer .
Date .
Value for r in B.A. units .
Value of ohm in centimetres of mercury at 0 ' .
Lord Rayleigh and Mrs. Sidgwick ... .
Mascart , Nerville , and Benoit 1883 1884 1885 1885 1887 1888 1888 0-95412 0-95374 1C6 -23 106 -33 Streeter .
, _ L. Lorentz tt .t tl v 1/ uOOt !
1AX \gt ; QQ Rowland , t v *70000 O* iuo yo 1 AA .
QO Kohlrausch , , , V *70O~\#187 ; *7 lUo oZ 1 AA *QO G-lazebrook and Fitzpatrick U i/ d'iOl 0-95352 lUO OL 1 AA \lt ; OQ iuo zy The paper contains a discussion of the above results .
It is shown that probably Lord Rayleigh 's value of r may be too high by as much as 0-0002 , in consequence of the fact that the mercury in his terminal cups was 5 ' or 6 ' 0 .
, but no complete explanation of the differences between his result and those of Rowland , Kohlrausch , and ourselves , has been found .
The difficulty of working with tubes such as those used by the Lorentz , 1\#151 ; 2 metres in length , and 1 , 2 , and 3 cm .
in diameter , may perhaps account for his value for the ohm , viz. , 105 93 .
XI .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
VI .
On the Anomodont Reptilia and their Allies .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The author examines the structure of the skull in the Dicynodontia , and discusses the interpretations of its elements and affinities given by Sir Richard Owen , Professor Huxley , and Professor Copland arrives at the conclusion that the interpretation of the bones of the palate may be varied .
The quadrate bone is found , though it is absent from many specimens owing to loose articulation , and the malleus is recognised as a normal element in the skull , which articulates with the quadrate and is free , except at its extremities , lbe palatine bones are internal to the pterygoids , and the pterygoids extend forward to the maxillary .
The columella is found in more than one specimen .
Many new specimens are described winch further elucidate the structure of the skull .
The first of these shows that the upper part of the foramen magnum is formed 2 f 2 382 On the Structure , SfC .
, of Fossil [ June 21 , by the supra-occipital bone , and that the element which has appeared to be a snpra-occipital is the inter-parietal .
Evidence is given of the form of the brain case , which is found to be high and narrow .
Details are given of the structure of the squamosal bone , and of its relation to the quadrate and other cranial elements ; and it appears that the squamosal usually embraces the quadrate , so as to extend in front of it , and sometimes to hide it , so that both the quadrate and squamosal sometimes contribute to form the articulation for the lower jaw .
Evidence is offered of the sutures which divide the bones of the skull from each other .
The sub-nasal element , found in Pareiasaurus , is met with in Dicynodonts , sometimes below the narine , and sometimes within its floor in the position of a turbinal .
A new type of quadrate bone , which is regarded as Anomodont , is described , and found to differ from the usual form in being perforated in the antero-posterior direction .
A summary of the structure of the skull is illustrated by a restoration showing its sutures .
Further contributions are made to a knowledge of the vertebral column .
The cervical vertebrae are described , the atlas and axis are regarded as anchylosed , and succeeded by an intercentrum which has no neural arch .
The cervical ribs are comparatively long , and articulate by a long fork with the neural arch , as well as with the centrum .
Further evidence is given of the structure of dorsal vertebrae , showing that the rib is attached to a single transverse process of the neural arch .
The caudal vertebrae of Platypodosaurus , eleven in number as preserved , are described ; and some observations are made on the mode of ossification of the intervertebral substance .
Additional materials further elucidate the Anomodont scapular arch ; and examples of scapula and coracoid are described ; but the only additional pelvic bone described is the pubis of An account is given of the limb bones , which are elucidated by large bones associated with the skull fragments described by Sir R. Owen as Titanosuchus ferox .
They contribute to a knowledge of the femur , humerus , and fibula in that type , and are associated with small bones of the extremities which are probably metacarpals .
The ulna is described , which was referred by Sir ft. Owen to Pareiasaurus , and evidence is given that it possessed terminal epiphyses of different form to any which are known in fossil reptiles , the proximal epiphysis having much the character of the olecranon of a mammal .
A massive Anomodont tibia , also referred by Sir R. Owen to Pareiasaurus , is described , and found to possess a distal talon of mammalian pattern .
Further observations are made upon the Theriodontia , as restricted to the genus Galesaurus , the skull of which is further elucidated .
The author also describes new material , making known the structure of the skull , palate , and scapular arch of Procolophon ; from which it appears that the pre-coracoid is exceptionally well developed , and 1888 .
] A. new .Form of Eudiometer .
883 united by suture to the coracoid .
The inter-clavicle had the slender T-shaped form of the hone in Ichthyosaurus .
Procolophon has teeth on the vomera and pterygoid bones , and the structure of the palate and the post-orbital region show that the Procolophonia forms a distinct division of the Anomodontia .
Observations are made on the relations of the European and South African Anomodonts , and on the relation of the Anomodontia to the Pelyco-sauria and to Gotylosanria .
Comparison is made with Placodus , which genus has two exoccipital condyles , comparable to those of mammals , and appears to have lost the basi-occipital condyle .
Comparisons are made with other extinct reptilia to show the relation of the Anomodonts to the Saurischia , and other reptilian types .
Observations are offered on the theory of the Anomodont skull , and on the effect of the articulation of the lower jaw with the squamosal in causing a diminished growth of the malleus and quadrate , converting them into the malleus and tympanic .
The larger groups included in the Anomodont alliance are regarded as the Pareiasauria and Procolophonia ; Dicynodontia , Grennetotheria , and Pelycosauria ; the Theriodontia , Cotylosauria , and Placodontia are regarded as coming under the same sub-class , which at one end of the series exhibits characters which link reptiles with amphibians , and at the other end of the series link reptiles with mammals .
XII .
" A new Form of Eudiometer .
" By William Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1888 .
[ Plate 14 .
] The quantitative determination of oxygen , simple as it appears at first sight , is found in practice beset with many difficulties .
Liebig 's method with pyrogallic acid and potassium hydrate , though considered as yielding correct results , takes too much time , and is unsatisfactory in some respects , so that the eudiometer has become of general use for the estimation of oxygen .
I shall not attempt to describe the various forms of eudiometer , but it may be assumed that Regnault , so well known for the care he bestowed on his investigations , had adopted a very correct kind of eudiometer in the researches he undertook with Reiset on the chemical phenomena of respiration* Other eudiometers have been made since then , such as the ingenious instrument of Dr. Frankland for gas analysis , which has proved most serviceable.- I claim for the present form of eudiometer that it is correct and reliable in its working , simple in construction , and easy of manipulation .
The main objects of an eudiometer must be the easy introduction of the air to be analysed , the ready mixture of that air with a known volume of pure hydrogen gas , and the correct reading * ' Annalea de Chimie et de Physique/ 3rd Series , vol. 26 , 1849 .

