2 .
, " On tJie Commnunications between the Tympanum and Palate in the Crocodilian Reptiles .
" By Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S , &amp;c. After citing the descriptions by Cuvier , Kaup , Bronn , and De Blainville of the Eustachian tubes and the foramina in the base of the cranium of the recent and extinct Crocodiles , the author gives an account of the nerves , arteries , veins and air-tubes that traverse these different foramina , and thus determines the true position of the carotid foramina and posterior nostrils in the Teleosauri and other fossil Crocodilia , which had been a matter of controversy amongst the authors cited .
In the course of these researches the author discovered a distinct system of Eustachian canals superadded to the or .
dinary lateral Eustachian tubes , which he describes as follows:-"From each tympanic cavity two passages are continued downwards , one expands and unites with its fellow from the opposite side to form a median canal which passes from the basisphenoid to the suture between that and the basioccipital , where it terminates in the median canal continued to the orifice described by M. De Blainville as the posterior nostril .
The second passage leads from the floor of the tympanic cavity to a short canal which bends towards its fellow , expands into a sinus and divides : one branch descends and terminates in the small lateral foramen at the lower end of the suture between the basioccipital and the basisphenoid : the other branch continues the course inwards and downwards until it meets its fellow at the median line of the basioccipital , and it forms the posterior primary division of the common median canal : this soon joins the anterior division , and the common canal terminates at the median opening below .
Membranous tubes are continued from the three osseous ones , and converge to terminate finally in the single Eustachian orifice on the soft palate behind the posterior nostril .
The mucous membrane of the palate lines the various osseous canals above described , and is continued by them into the lining membrane of the tympanum .
" With regard to the homologies of the above described air-passages , the author states that the lateral canals answer to the simple Eustachian tubes of Lizards and Mammals , and that the median canal , with its dichotomous divisions , is a speciality peculiar to the Crocodilian reptiles .
The memoir was illustrated by nine drawings of the size of nature .

