80 The Action of the Venom of Sepedon hsemachates of South .
By Sir Thomas R. Fraser , M.D. , LL. D. , Sc. D. , F.E.S. , Professor of Materia Medica , University of Edinburgh ; and James A. Gunn , M.A. , B.Sc. , M.D. , Assistant in the Materia Medica Department , University of Edinburgh .
( Received June 30 , 1908 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , 1909 .
) ( From the Pharmacology Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh .
) ( Abstract .
) The venom used was an extract from the dried venom glands of the Sepedon hcernachates .
Its minimum lethal dose by subcutaneous injection per kilogramme was found to be : for the frog , 0-0012 gramme ; for the rabbit , 0001 gramme ; for the rat , 0-0016 gramme ; for the cat , 0'015 gramme ; for the pigeon , 0'0033 gramme ; and , by intravenous injection , for the rabbit , 0'00055 gramme .
In the case of all these animals , the venom primarily and with greatest intensity affects the respiration .
Respiratory paralysis is the cause of death in mammals and in birds ; in frogs , the respiratory movements are early paralysed , but death occurs after several days from gradual failure of the circulation .
Other conspicuous effects produced by lethal doses in mammals are drowsiness , ataxia , impairment of reflexes , and fall of temperature .
In frogs , the venom produces diminution of reflex excitability , motor paralysis , and progressive increase in weight due to oedema .
In warm-blooded animals , the venom has a marked enfeebling action on the brain and spinal cord , which is only slightly , if at all , produced on the motor nerve ends .
In frogs , however , motor paralysis is due to a paralysing action both on the central nervous system and on the motor nerve ends , the former action being characteristic especially of large doses , the latter being more pronounced in the late stages of poisoning with smaller doses .
The venom has , comparatively with its action on nerve structures , a very slight action on skeletal muscle .
From the point of view of lethality , the effects of the venom on the circulation are of minor importance compared with those on the respiration .
Perfused through the frog 's heart , strong solutions of Sepedon venom bring about an increase of the rate , followed by arrest of the heart in systole ; and weaker solutions slow the heart and arrest it in .
diastole .
The latter effect is the only one manifested after injection of even 10 times the minimum lethal dose .
Action of the Venom o/ 'Sepedon hsemachates of South Africa .
81 Strong solutions slightly constrict the frog 's blood-vessels when perfused through them .
In rabbits , the venom injected intravenously causes a slight fall of blood-pressure .
This is soon recovered from , and thereafter the blood-pressure rises and remains high till the end of life .
The transient fall of blood-pressure is probably mainly due to a weakening of the heart 's contraction .
When pronounced embarrassment of the respiration comes on , the blood-pressure rises above the normal level .
This is mainly due to stimulation of the vasomotor centre by the venous condition of the blood , the heart being at the same time slowed through stimulation of the vagus .
The venom also slightly slows the heart by a direct action on it , and the direct but slight constriction of the vessels may be a contributing factor in maintaining the level of the blood-pressure .
In the course of poisoning in frogs , the lymph hearts are paralysed tardily , but long before the blood heart .
Sepedon venom has little action on the blood .
It does not definitely affect the coagulability , and neither haemorrhages nor intravascular clotting are found post mortem .
Haemolysis is not found in vivo .
Eespiratory failure in mammals is due to paralysis of the respiratory centre , the excitability of the phrenic nerve-ends being practically unimpaired .
Non-lethal doses of Sepedon venom cause a rise of temperature ; lethal doses cause a fall of temperature , with sometimes an initial rise .
* VOL. LXXXI.\#151 ; B. G

