392 Dr. A. B. Griffiths .
On [ June 16 , XVI .
" On the Nephridia and ' Liver ' of Patella .
" By A. B. Griffiths , Ph. D. , F.R.S. ( Edin .
) , F.C.S. ( Lond. and Paris ) , Principal and Lecturer on Chemistry and Biology , School of Science , Lincoln .
Communicated by Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 20 , 1887 .
Patella vulgata ( Limpet ) , with its conical shell adhering to the rocks of our coasts , is well known to every sea-side wanderer .
This member of the Gasteropoda has been the subject of many scientific memoirs in ancient and modern times .
Amongst naturalists , Aristotle was the earliest who gave an account of some of the limpet 's habits , and Cuvier was the first to describe its anatomy .
In this paper the author intends to describe the chemical properties of the secretions of two problematical organs of this interesting little Gasteropod .
The author has already proved the renal function of the green glands of Astacus fluviatilis ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' , vol. 38 , p. 187 ) ; also , in conjunction with Mr. Harold Follows , F.C.S. , the renal function of the organs of Bojanus in Anodon ( ' Chemical News , ' vol. 51,1885 , p. 241 ; ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 48 , 1885 [ Abstr .
] , p. 921 ) .
Since the publication of those papers , Dr. C. A. MacMunn ( ' Jonrn .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 7 [ Ho. 2 ] , p. 128 ) has extracted uric acid from the Malpighian tubules of insects and from the nephridia of the Pulmo-nate Mollusca .
I. Nephridia of Patella vulgata .
The nephridia of Patella vulgata consist of two parts , left and right lobes .
The left nephridium is very small in comparison to the right nephridium .
The anatomy and histology of these organs have been fully described by Prof. Lankester , F.R.S. ( ' Ann. Mag. Hat .
Hist. , ' vols .
20 , 1867 , and 7 , 1881 ) , J. T. Cunningham ( 'Quart .
Journ. Microsc .
Sci. , ' vol. 22 , p. 369 ) , and Harvey Gibson ( ' Edinb .
, Roy .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 32 , pp. 617\#151 ; 620 ) .
After dissecting the nephridia from the bodies of a large number of fresh limpets , the secretions of the left nephridia were examined separately from those of the right nephridia .
Both secretions were examined chemically by two separate methods as follows :\#151 ; ( a. ) The clear liquid from the nephridia was treated with a hot dilute solution of sodium hydrate .
On the addition of hydrochloric acid a slight flaky precipitate is obtained after standing for some time .
These flakes when examined microscopically are seen to consist of small rhombic plates and other forms .
On treating the secretion alone with alcohol , rhombic crystals are deposited which are soluble in water .
1887 .
] Nephridia and " Liver " of Patella vulgata .
When these crystals are treated with nitric acid and then gently heated with ammonia , reddish-purple murexide [ C8H4(NH4)N506 ] is obtained which crystallises in prisms .
( 6 .
) Another method was used for testing the secretion of the nephridia of Patella .
The secretion was boiled in distilled water , and evaporated carefully to dryness .
The residue so obtained was treated with absolute alcohol and filtered .
Boiling water was poured upon the residue , and to the aqueous filtrate an excess of pure acetic acid added .
After standing about seven hours , crystals of uric acid ( C5H4N403 ) were deposited , and easily recognised by the chemico-microscopical tests mentioned above .
The secretions both of the left and right nephridia yield uric acid .
It has been suggested by Mr. R. J. Harvey Gibson , M.A. , F.R.S.E. ( in his masterly memoir on the " Anatomy and Physiology of Patella vulgata ' Edinb .
, Roy .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 32 , pp. 601\#151 ; 638 ) , that the secretions of the two nephridia may be chemically distinct .
The author could not extract or detect ( after a most searching investigation ) the presence of any other ingredient besides uric acid in either secretion .
From this investigation , the isolation of uric acid proves the renal function of the nephridia of Patella vulgata .
II .
The " Liver " of Patella vulgata .
In a paper on the Cephalopod " liver " ( ' Edinb .
, Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 13 , pp. 120\#151 ; 122 ) , the author proved from a chemical and microscopical study of its secretion that it possesses the function of a true-pancreas or digestive organ .
Since the publication of the above paper , the author has investigated the nature of the secretions of various doubtful organs of the Invertebrata.* The " liver " of Patella is a yellowish saccular gland , and the greater bulk of this organ is encircled by the superficial coil of the intestine .
( a. ) The secretion of the gland acts upon starch-paste , converting the starch into glucose-sugar , as proved by the use of Fehling's-solution .
( 6 .
) The secretion produces an emulsion with oils and fats , yielding subsequently fatty acids and glycerol .
( c. ) When a few drops of the secretion of the gland are examined * See Dr. Griffiths ' paper , " Researches on the Problematical Organs of the-Invertebrata , especially those of the Cephalopoda , Gasteropoda , Lamellibranchiata , Crustacea , Insecta , and Oligochseta."\#151 ; Read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh , May 16 , 1887 .
394 Prof. Carnelley and Mr. J. S. Haldane .
[ June 16 , with chemical reagents under the microscope , the following reactions were observedOn running in between the slide and cover-slip a solution of iodine in potassium iodide , a brown deposit was obtained .
On running in concentrated nitric acid on another slide containing a drop or two of the secretion , a yellow coloration was formed , due to the formation of xanthoproteic acid .
These two reactions show the presence of albumin in the secretion of the organ in question .
( d. ) The soluble ferment secreted by the columnar cells of the epithelium of the gland was extracted according to the Wittich-Kistiakowsky method ( ' Pfluger , Archiv Physiol. , ' vol. 9 , pp. 438\#151 ; 459 ) .
The isolated ferment converts fibrin into leucin and tyrosin .
( e. ) No glycocholic and taurocholic acids could be detected by the Pettenkofer and other tests .
No glycogen was found in the organ or its secretion .
( / .
) The secretion contains leucin and tyrosin .
From these investigations the conclusion to be drawn is that the so-called " liver " of Patella vulgata is similar in function to the pancreas of the vertebrate division of animal life .
XVII .
" The Air of Sewers .
" By Professor Carnelley , D.Sc .
, and J. S. Haldane , M.A. , M.B. , University College , Dundee .
Communicated by Sir H. Roscoe , F.R.S. Received May 21 , 1887 .
( Abstract ) .
Owing to the complaints which had been made of bad smells in 4he House of Commons a Select Committee was appointed in the spring of 1886 to inquire into the ventilation of the House .
By that Committee the authors were instructed to make a series of analyses of the air in the sewers under the Houses of Parliament , and to report thereon .
Since then they have examined a considerable number of sewers in Dundee , and have also made a number of laboratory experiments .
The object of the research was to obtain a general idea of the amount of some of the more important impurities in sewer air , and to throw some light on their sources , and the conditions affecting their dissemination .
After giving a brief resume of the results of the analyses which had been previously made of sewer air , the authors describe the methods they have employed , and the nature and condition of the .'Sewers they have themselves examined .
As a result of their investigation they found\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That the air of

