378 Evaporation and Dissociation .
Chlorophyll .
[ June 21 , VIII .
" Evaporation and Dissociation .
Part VIII .
A Study of the Thermal Properties of Propyl Alcohol .
" By William Ramsay , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Sydney Young , D.Sc .
Received June 14 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In continuation of our investigations of the thermal properties of pure liquids , we have now determined the vapour-pressures , vapour-densities , and expansion in the liquid and gaseous states of propyl alcohol , and from these results we have calculated the heats of vaporisation at definite temperatures .
The compressibility of the liquid has also been measured .
The range of temperature is from 5 ' to 280 ' C. , and the range of pressure from 5 mm. to 56,000 mm. The memoir contains an account of the purification of the propyl alcohol ; determinations of its specific gravity at 0 ' , and at 10''72 ; and of the constants mentioned above .
The approximate critical temperature of propyl alcohol is 2630,7 ; the approximate critical pressure is 38,120 mm. , and the approximate volume of one gram is 3'6 c.c. The first two of these constants must be very nearly correct ; the third cannot be determined with the same degree of precision .
The memoir is accompanied by plates , showing the relations of volume , temperature , and pressure in a graphic form .
IX .
" Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. III .
" By Edward Sohungk , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a continuation of the previous ones on the same subject .
In it the author gives an account of the action of alkalis on phyllocyanin so far as regards the first stage of the process , and of the products thereby formed .
Phyllocyanin when acted upon by alkalis yields in the first instance a well-crystallised substance of a peacock- or steel-blue colour , to which he gives the name of taonin .
He describes its properties and those of some of its compounds .
When hydrochloric acid gas in excess is passed through a solution of chlorophyll in alcoholic soda , a compound crystallising in lustrous purple needles is formed , which seems to be the ethyl ether of phyllotaonin .
By substituting methylic for ethylic alcohol a very similar compound is obtained , which the author considers to be the corresponding methyl ether .
Though these compounds readily yield phyllotaonin by saponification with alcoholic potash or soda , the author did not succeed in reproducing them by the combined action of alcohol and hydrochloric acid on phyllotaonin .
4

