XV .
On the Composition of Emery .
By Smithson Tenant , Esq. F. R. S. Read July i , 18o80 THE substance called emery , which , from its great hardness , has been long used in various manufactures , for grinding and polishing other bodies , has not , it appears , been hitherto correctly analyzed .
In books of mineralogy , it is considered as an ore of iron ; an opinion probably derived from its great specific gravity , as well as from the iron which it frequently contains .
But , where this metal is most abundant , it could not be extracted from it with advantage , and ought rather to be regarded as an impurity , as it does not contribute to produce the peculiar hardness for which this substance is distinguished .
In Mr. KIRWAN*S mineralogy , he mentions an examination of emery made by Mr. WIEGLEB , from which he inferred that ioo parts consisted of 95,6 of silex , and 4,4 of iron .
Mr. KIRWAN , however , justly suspects the correctness of this account , and observes that he had no doubt but some other stone was imposed upon Mr. WIEGLEB for emery .
When powder of emery is boiled in acids , it becomes of a lighter colour , from the loss of part of the iron ; after which , it does not seem to undergo any further alteration .
As acids produce so little effect on it , I exposed it to a pretty strong red heat , with carbonate of soda , in a crucible of platina .
On adding water to the .
mass contained in the crucible , the greater part of the emery was found in powder ; having only become of a light colour , from the extraction of part of the iron .
Though this process was twice repeated with the remaining powder , and in a stronger heat , a great proportion of it remained undissolved .
The alkaline solution , after a red calx of iron had subsided from it , was saturated with acid ; and gave a precipitate of a white earth , which I found to be almost purely argillaceous .
The result of these experiments , was so similar to those of Mr. KLAPROTH on diamond spar , as to render it very probable that emery was in reality the same substance , though usually mixed with a larger proportion of iron ; and the subsequent experiments appear to confirm this opinion .
In order to obtain a quantity of emery as free from iron as I could , I reduced to a coarse powder , a piece which consisted of different strata , some of which were of much lighter colour than others ; and afterwards separated , by a magnet , the particles which were attractedby it .
The part which was not attracted by the magnet , I observed to have the usual .
degree of hardness , ( by the scratches which might be made with it on flint .
) I then reduced it to a finer powder , in an agate mortar ; and , as this was principally done by pressure , and not by grinding , hardly any sensible addition was made to its weight .
In the same manner , I found that diamond spar might be powdered to the same degree of fineness , without any material increase of weight from the mortar .
Of the emery powder thus prepared , 20 grains were taken , and heated in the manner before described , with 12o grains of soda , which had been previously deprived of carbonic acid , and boiled to dryness in a silver pan .
By nearly the same process as that used by Mr. KLAPROTH , I obtained about 16,0 grains of argillaceous earth , ,6 of siliceous earth , ,8 or,9 of iron , and,6 of a grain remained undissolved .
These numbers , reduced to parts of a hundred , are therefore , Argillaceous earth 80o Silex Iron 4 Undissolved -3 go .
Mr. KLAPROTH obtained from the Chinese corundum , after separating from it the particles which were attracted by the magnet , Argillaceous earth -8 Silex 6,5 Iron -7,5 98 .
As this analysis was no doubt conducted with greater care than mine , the loss of weight was less ; but the proportion of the ingredients is sufficiently near to show that the substances are essentially the same .
From 25 grains of emery which appeared the most impregnated with iron , and yet retained its usual hardness , I obtained , argillaceous earth e1,5 , silex 2 , iron 8 , and one grain was not dissolved ; or , per cent. Argillaceous earth 50Silex 8 Iron Undissolved 4 94 .
As such emery can easily be had of uniform quality in large pieces , I procured the powder employed in this experiment , by rubbing two pieces against each other .
From 35 grains of emery , similar in appearance to the preceding , but which had been digested with marine acid previous to the action of the alkali , I had , per cent. Of argillaceous earth 1 6,4 6,6 Siliceous earth,8 g , Iron , 8 , Not dissolved 4,5 8 , o 23,7 94,8 .
The hardness of emery , as far as I could judge by its cutting rock crystal and flint , appeared to be equal to that of diamond spar .
The latter could not be scratched by the former ; but , as emery has not a surface sufficiently polished to render a mark visible , the converse of this could not be tried .
All the emery which is used in England , is said to be brought from the Islands of the Archipelago , and principally from Naxos .
In those places , it is probably very abundant ; as the price of it in London , which I was told was 8 or io shillings the hundred weight , appears little more than sufficient for the charges of carriage .
Though I saw a very large quantity in one place , ( more than a thousand hundred weight , ) I could not find any pieces of a crystallized form ; possibly the great proportion of iron usually mixed with it , may prevent its crystallization .
The whole consisted of angular blocks encrusted with iron ore , sometimes of an octaedral form , with pyrites , and very often with mica .
The latter frequently penetrates the whole substance of the mass , giving it , when broken , a silvery appearance , 401 if seen in the direction in which.the flat surfaces present themselves to the eye .
As these substances have no chemical relation to the emery itself , it is remarkable that they should also accompany the diamond spar from China ; for Mr. KLAPROTH observes , " that its lateral facets are mostly coated with a " ( firmly-adhering crust of micaceous scales , of a silvery lustre : " he also mentions , besides felspar , pyrites , and grains of magnetic iron ore .

