I. " 'On the Geographical and Geological Relations of the Fauna and Flora of Palestine .
" By the Rev. HIENRY BAKER TRIsTRAI , M.A. , F.G.S. Communicated by P. L. SCLATER , M.A. Received March 10 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) A detailed examination of the fauna and flora exhibits results remarkably in accordance with the views expressed by Mr. Sclater and IDr .
Gunther on the geographical distribution of species .
Palestirne forms an extreme southern province of the Palearctic region .
In every class , however , there are a group of peculiar forms , which cannot be explainied simply by the fact of Palestine impinging closely on the Ethiopian , and more distantly on the Ildian region , but which require a reference to the geological history of the country .
The results of the examination of the collections made in 1864 by the expedition assisted by the Royal Society , may be tabulated thus : Indian , including Tota .
Palnarctic .
Eth-iopianl .
those which are Peculiar .
also Ethiopian .
Marnmalia ... ... 82 41 30* 13 7 Aves ... ... ... .
326 258 36t 14 27 Reptilia ... 48 25 13$ 2 4 ?
Pisces , fluviatile ... 17 133 10l Mollusca.146 48 82 81 Flora , general ... . .
963 ?
T Flora , Dead-Sea basin ( Phaneroga-mic). .
113 27 71* " 26 3 Several of the Ethiopiaii Mammalia are sedentary forms , and seem to point to an earlier settlement than across the recent deserts .
There is lno trace of any immigration from the Indian region .
Of the peculiar species , Hyrax syriacus belongs to an exclusively Ethiopian and isolated type , yet is specifically different from its congeners , which are all most sedentary in their habits .
The Avifauna is very -rich in number of species , most unequally distributed .
The Ethiopian .
and Indian types are almost exclusively confined to the Dead-Sea basin , excepting only the desert forms .
There are several Indian species , as KCetupa ceylonensis , which have no affinities with any Ethiopian forms .
Of the peculiar species , besides several modifications of well-known Palaearctic forms , there are eleven , belonging to as many different Ethiopian and Indiani genera .
Tllree of these are decidedly Indian in their affinities .
The Avifaunia of the Dead-Sea basin is decidedly distinct and typical , sometimes Indian , more generally Ethiopian in its character .
In the Reptilia there is a less prominent intrusion of Ethiopian types , there being a general similarity to the Egyptian herpetological fauna , which must be classed withini the Palearetic region .
The Indiani is present in Daboia xanthina ; and the affinities of a new genus Rhynchocalanius are rather obscure .
Snakes in particular are more limited to the original locality of the individuals , and the groups , like the individuals , are more stationary .
The fiuviatile ichthyological fauna is much more distinlct , though the number of species is small .
In its consideration we confine ourselves to the Jordan and its tributaries , in .
which are three Nilotic fishes , three others extending eastward in Asia , six to other rivers of Syria , and four peculiar , bearing a strong affiniity to the s)ecies and genera ( as Chromis and Hemichlromis ) of tropical Eastern Africa .
Of the Mollusca , most of the peculiar species have no geographical signification .
The Pulmonifera have developed in groups , which are modifications of desert types in the south , and of Mediterranean forms on the coast .
Variation in this class appears rapidly to follow segregation , as showni by the Jordanic species .
The fluviatile mollusca are much more distinct , and indicate a very ancient separation from any adjacent district .
Similar inferences may be drawn from the examination of the Arachnida , Lepidoptera , Hemiptera , and Orthoptera , as well as from the Rhizopod fauna , which is similar to that of the Indian Ocean .
( The examination of the Coleoptera is not yet completed .
) The flora of Palestine is , on the coastline and highlands , simply a reproduction of that of the Eastern Mediterranean .
That of the Jordan valley is most distinct .
Of 113 species by the Dead Sea , only 27 are European , and these chiefly weeds of world-wide distribution .
In this area the flora is almost exclusively Ethiopian , consisting largely of species extending from the Caniaries to India .
Thus in the Dead-Sea basin , all area of but a few square mniles , we find a series of forms of life in all classes , differing from those of the surrounding region , to which they do not extend , and having Ethiopian and , more strictly , Indian affiniities .
The basin is depressed 1300 feet below the sealevel ; and as zonies of elevation corresponid to parallels of latitude , so here a zone of depression represents the fauna and flora of a low latitude .
If the flora were 2representative , this law , that climatal zonies of life are nlutually repeated and represented by elevationi or depression and latitude , wo 1 uld account for their existenice .
But we have a transported flora ; this lnegatives the idea of an independent origin on the spot .
The theory of migration , under presentt conditiois , is refuited by the coexistence of peculiar and unique forms , with others niow found in regions widely apart .
Of these , the physical character , and the phenomerna of their present distribution , presel-t insuperable obstacles to their migration under existinq geological conditionis .
Their existence must be mainily due to dispersioai before the isolation of the area ; this must have been after the close of the Eocene period ) to which belong the most recent superficial deposits of Southern Palestine .
There are no beds synchroniizing with the miocenie deposits of Sicily , &amp; e. it must have bad a fauna and flora conitemporaieous with the miocene flora of Germanly .
There is geological evidence that since the Eocene period the Jordan fissure has had no conniexion with the Red Sea or Mediterranean .
There are subsequent vast marl deposits of the Dead Sea when it was at a higher level , but they are wholly unfossiliferous .
The dimnaution of the waters may , for reasonis given , be fixed about the close of the tertiary epoch .
We have also evidence of the extension of the glacial period thus far south , as in the moraines of Lebanion .
Still the lake existed before the glacial epochl in its present form , when there was an unusually warner climate , and the more anltique Ethiopian fauna and flora had a more northerly extension .
This would be contemporanieous with the miocene continlent of Atlantis , and the Asturian flora of South-west Ireland .
Palestine would them be East African .
Afterwards the glacial inroad would destroy the mass of preexisting life , excepting the few species most tenacious of existence which sulrvive in the still comparatively warm depression of the Jordan valley , which thus became a tropical " outlier , " analogous to the boreal marine outliers of our own seas .
The Inidianl types a'ire explained by the former coritiniuous imliocene continent from Indiaito Africa .
The peculiar species may either yet be fouid iii Arabia , or , if not , may be descenldaints of species which inhabited the country with a limited range , or may be variationls stereotyped by isolation .
The peculiar fishes of the Jordan are most important , dating probably from the earliest period after the elevation of the lanld .
The genera of the peculiar species are exclusively Africale , while the species are rep)resentative rather than identical .
'VV n-ay explain this by the iniocene chain of freshwater lakes , extending from Galilee to the Nyaniza , Nyassa , and Zambesi , when an ichthyological fauna was developed suited to the warm conditions that prevailed , part of which survives in the Jordan .
During the glacial period the temperature of Lebanon must have been similar to the present Alps , as the existing mammals and birds on the summits are identical with those of the Pyrenees and the Alps ; not so the glacial flora , of which almost every trace has been lost .
But the flora had not the same powers of vertical migration with the fauna , of which , however , the Elk , Red Deer , and Reindeer , found in the bone-caverns , have long since perished .
During the present period the Mediterranean forms have overspread the whole country , excepting the mountain-tops at any elevation of 9000 feet , and the Jordan depression .
These two exceptions cani be best explained by the fact that the traces of the glacial iniroad are not yet wholly obliterated , and that the preceding warm period has left its yet stronger mark in the uniique tropical " outlier " of the Dead-Sea basin , analogous to the boreal outliers of our mountain-tops , the concave depression in the one being the complement of the coinvex elevation in the other .

