III .
A Letter from Mr Ralph Thoresby , F. R. S. to Dr. Hans Sloane , R. S. Secr. Giving an Account of a Lunar Rain-Bow seen in Darbyshire , and of a Storm of Thunder and Lightning which happened near Leedes in Yorkshire .
Honoured Sir , THE Iris Lunaris being so rarely seen , that the Ingenious Dr Plot tells us ( Not Hist. of Oxf .
cap. 1 .
~ .
7 .
) that several Learned and Observing Men never saw one in their Lives , and that even Aristotle himself observed but two in above 50 Years ; the ensuing Account , which I had from a Gentleman of great Veracity and Ingenuity , will be the more acceptable .
He is now in this Town , but was lately in Darbyshire , where , upon Christmas last , he was at Glapwell Hall ; and walking towards Patterton-Green , about Eight in the Evening , he observed with great Satisfaction the Bow , which the Moon had fixed in the Clouds : She had then passed her Full about 24 Hours ; the Evening had been rainy , but the Clouds were dispersed , and the Moon shined pretty clear .
This Iris was more remarkable than that which Dr. Plot observed at Oxford , the 23d of November 1675 .
that being only of a white Colour , but this had all the Colours of the Iris Solaris , exceeding pleasant , distinct , and grateful to look upon ; only faint , comparatively to those we see in the Day ; as must necessarily follow , both from the different Beams that cause it , and the disposition of the Medium .
What puzzled him the most , he said , was the largeness of the Arc , which was not so much less than that of the Sun , as the different Dimensions of their Bodies , and their respective distances from the Earth , seem to require : But as to its entireness , and beauty of its Colour , it was admirable and surprising .
It continued about ten Minutes , before the Interposition of a Cloud hindred his further Observation .
This from my Darbyshire Friend .
The beginning of the same Month had been remarkable here in Yorkshire , for such Thunder and Lightnings , as are not common here at that time of the year ; particularly the Evening of the 5th Day , and the Morning of that Day Seven-night ; when John Sainor of Bramham , Gardner , and two Women , designing early for this Market , were so furiously encountered , that the Females took up at the first House they came at ; but he proceeded on his Journey , tho ' the Lightning was so severe , as he was riding over Bramham-Moor , that he thought his Hair had been burnt , and Face scorched , at one Flash ; which being more severe than the rest , did actually set on Fire the Stick he had in his Hand , as he was ready to depose upon Oath before John Dodgson Esq ; Mayor of Leedes , who presented me with the said Hazel Rod which the Gardner had given him : It yet retains part of the blackness , tho ' the Man had beat off much of the end of the Rod ( little minding it as a Curiosity ) by forcing the Horse forward , to get the sooner out of the fiery Incalescence .
I am , Sir , Leedes , Jan. 20 .
1710-11 .
Youy most humble Servant , RALPH THORESBY .

