5 1892 .
] Dr. A. Hill .
The Hippocampus .
be formidable antagonists to the smaller land Vertebrates of the period .
The report of Dr. Scudder will complete the account of the land animals of the erect Sigillarise of the South Joggins , unless by new falls of the cliff fresh trees should be exposed .
From 1851 , when the first remains were obtained from these singular repositories by the late Sir Charles Lyell and the writer , up to the present time , they have afforded the remains of twelve species of Amphibians , three land Snails , eight Millipedes , three Scorpions , and an Insect .
The type specimens of these animals have been placed in the Peter Redpath Museum of McGill University , and such duplicates as are available will be sent to the British Museum and that of the Geological Survey of Canada .
III .
" The Hippocampus .
" By Alex Hill , M.D. , Master of Downing College .
Communicated by Prof. A. Macalister , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 4 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The subject of this paper is the hippocampal region of the brain in anosmatic animals .
Several specimens of the brain of the bottlenosed whale , narwhal , porpoise , and calf-seal were obtained for the purpose of studying the extent to which the hippocampus in animals totally destitute of the sense of smell , or possessing it in a very small degree , departs from the ordinary type .
The hippocampal region was , in each case , cut into a series of ections , which showed that there is , in the brains of Hyperoodon and Monodon , no fascia dentata ; in this formation is very rudimentary ; in Phoca it is rather less strongly developed than in man .
As a standard of comparison , the hippocampus of the ox was studied in a similar manner .
Certain points which have not been described hitherto with regard to the anatomy and histology of the hippocampus in macrosmatic brains are noticed .
Other peculiarities in the general form and in minute structure which distinguish the brains of anosmatic animals are also mentioned incidentally .
The discovery that the fascia dentata is completely absent in animals which possess no olfactory bulb or tract , and that it varies in development directly as the size of these organs , throws light upon the function of the hippocampal region , and seems to call for a fresh definition of its several parts and a revision of the nomenclature of the region .
The paper contains an historical survey of the terminology and suggestions for its revision .

