2 .
" On the Lunar Atmospheric Tide at Singapore .
" By Captain C. M. Elliot , M.E. , F.R.S. Received Dec. 18 , 1851 .
The discussion of the barometric observations at St. Helena by Colonel Sabine having clearly and decidedly shown the moon 's influence on the atmosphere , the author determined to discuss in a similar manner the barometric observations at Singapore .
The results of this discussion are given in the present communication .
In order that a comparison might be made between the results at Singapore and at St. Helena , he copied to a considerable extent the form of the different lunar tables drawn up by Colonel Sabine in his paper published in the Philosophical Transactions .
The observatory at Singapore was in latitude 1ยง 18 32 " N. and longitude 103ยง 56 ' 30 " E. of Greenwich .
The cistern of the barometer , one of Newman 's , having a tube 0'532 inch in diameter , was a few feet above high-water mark .
The observations , during the whole of 1841 and the early part of 1842 and that of 1843 , were made at every two hours ; during the remainder of the time , to the close of 1845 , at every hour .
The diurnal variation of the barometer having been eliminated , by deducting the mean monthly height at each hour , from the height given by observation , the residual quantities were arranged in tables ; and the observation corresponding the nearest in time to the moon 's superior culmination for each day being marked as 0 hour of lunar time , the whole were again rearranged in tables according to lunar hours .
The variation or range of the mean of the sums of the differences thus arranged is exhibited in a table , in the last column of which are given the means of all the hours for each period of six months .
In a second table are given the differences between these mean results in the last column of the preceding table and the numbers corresponding to the several hours in the other columns .
The means of the complete years of observation , 1841 , 1844 , 1845 , are shown in a third table , in which are also given the means of the first six months of 1842 and 1843 , during which two-hourly observations were made , and the means of the latter halves of these years , during which the observations were made hourly .
The means of the twenty-four months of the two-hourly observations , and of the thirty-six months of the hourly observations , are given in Table IV .
Finally , Table V. exhibits the results of the observations of three years , so combined as to show the effect on the barometer , of the moon when similarly situated with reference both to its superior and inferior passage .
In a column of this table are given the results of two years ' observations at St. Helena , extracted from Colonel Sabine 's paper .
From a comparison , it appears that the effect produced by the moon on the barometer at Singapore , nearly on the equator , is slightly greater than at St. Helena , more distant from it by 14- ?
of latitude .

