I. " Experimental Researches on the Organ of Vision.-Part I. Microscopic Examination of the Circulation of the Blood in the Vessels of the Iris and of the Choroid Membrane , &amp;c. " By AUGUSTUS WALLER , M.D. , F.R.S. Received July 10 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) In a former paper on the section of the optic nerve , the author described a process of producing temporary extrusion of the eyeball from the socket in the living animal .
Although adopted in the first instance merely for the purpose of dividing the optic nerve de visu with as little injury as possible , the same means of exposing the eyeball may be advantageously employed for studying various other points relating to the physiology of the eye .
In the first place , as the eyeball is so much protruded from the orbit , Kepler 's experiment on the eye removed from the body , showing that external objects form inverted images on the retina , maybe performed on the living animal .
For this purpose it is merely requisite to place a bright object obliquely before the pupil , a candle for instance , in order to ascertain that a reversed image of it is formed on the opposite side of the eye .
On a young rabbit placed in a dark room , particularly if an albino animal is used , the inverted image of the candle , although having to traverse the choroid , the sclerotic and the muscular parts , is perceived bright , and tolerably well defined .
When this bright spot is examined with a lens or a compound microscope , it is found to be sufficiently illuminated to allow of the examination of the motion of the globules of the blood .
On the young guinea-pig the same may be still more easily examined , but it is particularly the albino rat or surmulot ( Mus decunuanus ) that the author has found most suitable for these observations , exophthalmosis being most easily produced on this animal , while the eye is so transparent and the iris so close to the cornea , that the circulation of the blood-globules in the vessels of the iris may be observed .
At the same time , beneath the iris and sclerotic may be seen the ciliary processes from their origin at the ora serrata to their anterior extremity , where they are seen to form a circular crown with a serrated edge surrounding the crystalline lens .
The vessels of the ciliary ligament of the choroid are likewise rendered accessible to actual inspection during life .
For the purpose of examination , the animal is secured by a few turns of a band , about 1I inch in width , passed round its body so as to confine the limbs .
It is then placed on a narrow slip of cork , to which it is fixed by some turns of string .
When steadily fixed , exophthalmosis is produced and maintained by passing a strong thread around the slip of cork and the head of the animal close to the eye , alternately in front and behind it .
When the compound microscope is used , it will be found requisite to place the animal sidewise , so as to direct the object-glass over the bright image above mentioned , which is always formed when the eye is placed before any bright light .
The author first describes the vessels of the conjunctiva over the sclerotic and cornea .
These vessels form a network behind and before the ciliary ligament , and join : into numerous small trunks which unite with a circular ciliary veini running all round the ciliary ligament .
In the corneal conjunctiva the vessels may be traced towards the summit of the cornea over the outer half of its surface , and even beyond .
They are seen to commence internally , as if with free extremities , from whence the blood is seen circulating rapidly towards the circumference of the cornea .
Then large meshes soon form , which become smaller as they approach the ciliary ligament , where they terminate in a circular vein surrounding the cornea .
The rapid circulation of the blood at the apparent extremities of the vessels over the inner parts of the cornea , indicates their further continuation inwards or below , although the author has not traced them further over the cornea .
The vessels of the anterior surface of the iris , which Dr. W. next examines , consist of arteries and veins .
The former are derived almost entirely from the two long ciliary arteries which arrive near the outer and inner angles of the eye , their course being traced over the anterior half of the sclerotic until they reach the great circumference of the iris , where they each subdivide into two equal branches , one inferior , the other superior , which diverge at an obtuse angle , each of them running in an oblique direction towards the edge of the pupil until they attain the inner third of the iris , where most of the final subdivisions are bent outwards .
These four oblique branches form a symmetrical figure of a lozenge-shape over the iris , each branch giving off internal and external twigs , the former ending in the small circumference , the latter in the large circumference of the iris .
The course of the blood may be watched in these vessels from over the sclerotic to their termination in the iris , but in general the current is too rapid to allow of the detection of the direction of the separate particles of the blood .
It is only when the circulation becomes languid that the separate globules can be seen distinctly running in a centrifugal ( i. e. arterial ) direction .
By compressing the eye slightly , the passage of the blood may be retarded , and by that means be easily followed ; but in so doing an error may possibly be committed respecting the arterial nature of these vessels , as the course of the blood is then generally reversed in the arteries , and will be seen to take a centripetal direction , sometimes for upwards of a minute , according to the amount of pressure .
But in a short time , after oscillating within the vessels , the blood again resumes its natural course , which may be sufficiently regulated to enable us to watch the passage of the globules in the oblique branches and in their internal and external subdivisions .
The veins of the iris form two layers .
The superficial layer comprises all the larger veins-generally twenty-three or twenty-four in number , -which radiate in a regular manner from the pupil outu wards towards the ciliary ligament .
They arise at the pupillary edge , each by two or three fine twigs , which quickly meet in a common trunk , or sometimes run separately as far as the outer half of the iris , where they unite in a common trunk .
The deep layer consists almost entirely of a fine network belonging to the radiating muscular fibres , and presenting a close analogy with the fine vessels supplying striated muscular fibre ; the vessels being very minute , and the meshes elongated in the direction of the fibres .
Sometimes the vessels from this layer unite into a small ramuscule , which empties into a radiating vein ; at others they unite in a common trunk , passing beneath the ciliary ligament into the choroid .
The movement of the blood in the veins is generally not too rapid to distinguish the direction of the current and the separate globules , which appear to be constantly springing from around the edge of the pupil and pouring outwards along the veins of the iris into the choroidal and ciliary vessels .
When the pupil is contracted , the radiating vessels are rectilinear ; but when it dilates they become curved and bent into zigzag and spiral forms , which are more or less curved or obtuse in proportion to the degree of dilatation of the pupil .
This change in the form of the vessels does not appear to produce any difference in the speed of the current of blood .
Around the ciliary ligament are two and often three circular vessels , receiving the blood from the conjunctiva of the cornea and sclerotic , partly from the iris , and probably from the ciliary processes .
Two of them are venous , and empty themselves into four large veins , corresponding to the anterior ciliaries , which arise in a perpendicular direction , and after following a rectilinear course over the sclerotic , finally end in the ophthalmic vein .
The third circular ciliary vessel is of an arterial nature , as shown by the greater thickness of its parietes and the rapidity of its current .
The current of blood in these vascular circles is a most interesting object from the variety of its course , as into each anterior ciliary vein the blood is seen pouring out from the circular vein in two opposite currents , to be united into one in the larger vessel .
The author also describes the appearance presented by the blood poured into the circular veins by their afferent vessels .

