264 ZOOLOGY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
Terrestrial Annelida.\#151 ; ! ?
?/ L , , .F.JK.tf .
The Rev. A. E. Eaton , on liis return from the Expedition of the Transit observers to Kerguelen 's Land , placed in my hands for description two small earthworms obtained by him in the island , and preserved in strong spirit .
The specimens were small and immature , not exceeding inch in length ; hut by cutting transverse sections of one , and slitting the other up the median dorsal line , staining with carmine , and mounting in Canada balsam , I have succeeded in making out the affinities of the species .
The study of the various species of Earthworms ( Lumbricidse proper ) has only recently been attempted with due attention to anatomical detail .
Their excessively complicated generative glands , ducts , and pouches present the greatest diversity of arrangement , so as to enable us to establish a series of strongly marked genera , which , while differing in the arrangement of these parts , yet present but slight differences in external form , or in the arrangement of their setse .
Professor Edmond Perrier , availing himself of the very fine collection of exotic Lumbricidse in the Jardin des Plants , has been the pioneer in this branch of investigation , and in his memoir ct Recherches pour servir a l'histoire des Lombriciens terrestres , " published in the " Nouvelles Archives du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle , 1872 , " he has established a series of genera on the only possible characters in modern zoology\#151 ; namely those derived from thorough anatomical examination .
M. Perrier has studied earthworms from North and South Africa , from the East Indies , from the West Indies , from North and South America , and a number of scattered islands , and has rendered it evident that he has tapped a rich storehouse of zoological facts of first-rate importance .
Presenting , as they do , a considerable number of genera , and occurring as they do almost universally on the earth 's surface where there is vegetable soil\#151 ; being moreover absolutely destitute either of means of transport or of power to resist deleterious agents whilst being passively transported ( earthworms and probably their eggs are rapidly killed by sea-water ) , the promise to yield , when fully investigated , a mass of information bearing upon the problems of the causes of geographical distribution and the connections of continents and islands in past epochs\#151 ; more decisive and indisputable in its character than that presented by any similar small group of the animal kingdom .
The essential feature of their organisation which gives to the Lumbricidce so interesting and important a position , is the possession of a most sensitive generative apparatus\#151 ; , that is to say , in the sense of responding by innumerable modifications of its highly-developed male ducts , prostatic glands , seminal reservoirs , penial setse , copulatory pouches , and other accessory glands , to those slight differences of environment which whilst thus affectTERRESTRIAL ANNELIDA.\#151 ; E. RAY LANKESTER .
ing the genitalia so as to create generic distinctions , have yet left the external form and character unaffected .
The two small specimens from Kerguelen 's Land are the first Earthworms of special interest which I have received , though for some time , through the kindness of Sir J. Hooker , Earthworms , found in the Wardian cases sent from abroad to the Koyal Gardens at Kew , have been forwarded to me for examination .
I may take this opportunity of saying that persons who may wish to preserve specimens of exotic earthworms for examination in this country should either send them home alive , which is easy and the most satisfactory to the student , or should kill them with chloroform , by which means they are prevented from shrinking , and then place them first for twenty-four hours in weak spirit , and afterwards in the strongest which can be procured .
The Earthworms brought from Kerguelen by Mr. Eaton are small specimens of a species of Acanthodrilus .
The genus Acanthoclriliis is established by Edmond Perrier for the reception of three species , two of which come from New Caledonia ( A. obtusus and A. ungulatus ) , whilst the third ( A. is an inhabitant of Madagascar .
The addition of Kerguelen 's Land to the distribution already indicated by Perrier for Acanthodrilus , is a matter of some consequence , though until our collections of Lumbricidce are more exhaustive than at present , it would be very rash to discount the conclusions to which we shall be ultimately led .
I propose now to give the characters of the genus Acanthodrilus as indicated by Perrier in his classical work , and then to point out the distinctive characters of the Kerguelen species .
Characters of the genus Acantiiodrilijs , with notes on the species .
The Lumbricidceare divided by Perrier into three sections according as the male generative apertures are in front of , within , or behind the clitellum .
The genus Lumbricus alone is TrceclitelUan , the genera Tit anus , , chceta , and Geogeniaare Intraclitellian , whilst , Acanthodrilus , Dig aster , Terionyx , and Te are .* The genus Acanthodrilus is especially characterised amongst the Lumbricidce by the possession of two pairs of male generative orifices which are placed in the 17th and 19th , 18th and 20tli , or 19th and 21st segments.f These orifices are so placed as to give exit each to a bundle of greatly elongated and specially modified " penial " or " genital " setae .
The term " penial " proposed by Perrier is more appropriate than that which I had previously used in describing * It is impossible to determine the true value and position of the genera of Lumbricid\#174 ; established by Ivinberg , since he has not famished the necessary anatomical details , t The cephalic lobe and the buccal ring form the first segment .
L L similarly modified setae in Chaetogaster and Nais ( see my paper " On distinct larval and sexual forms in the Oligochaeta .
" Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1870 ) .
The existence of these penial setae is what has suggested the name of the genus , since they appear to be unique amongst the though we find similar setae in the Naididce , and in Lumbricus an enlargement and elongation of the setae in several of the segments connected with the reproductive organs , though not a well marked specialization of form is noticeable .
The setae which are thus modified in Acanthodrilus are those which correspond to the two ventrally placed pairs ( one on each side the median line ) of a segment of , the dorsally placed pairs being unmodified .
In the new Acanthodrilus the penial setae are in two bundles of four each , or eight altogether to each male genital pore .
They are notched near the anterior extremity as in Perrier 's A. verticillatus ( see fig. 6 .
) Perrier gives as a character of the genus that the locomotor setae are arranged as in Lumbricus in four series , each group of bristles containing as in Lumbricus two functional setae .
This character must be amended , since in the new Acanthodrilus of Kerguelen 's Land the setae are arranged , not in four series of bundles or groups , each containing two setae , but in eight series , each seta standing alone , and widely separate from its fellows of neighbouring series ( fig. 4 ) .
Thus on each segment we can distinguish , on each side of the median antero-posterior vertical plane , a medio-ventral seta and a latero-ventral seta , a latero-dorsal seta , and a medio-dorsal seta .
It becomes quite clear that the double ventral series in Lumbricus and the other species of Acanthodrilus , is formed by the approximation of two single series such as we see in the medio-ventral and latero-ventral series of the Accrn-thodrilus of Kerguelen 's Land , since in certain segments of this species , namely , the 16th , 17th , 18th , and 19th , the two separate ventral series of single setse approach one another , and form a double ventral series ( see fig. 2 ) , exactly comparable to the arrangement which obtains throughout the series both dorsal and ventral in Lumbricus and most other Lumbricidce .
Acanthodrilus is stated by Edmond Perrier to possess the median dorsal pores leading from the body-cavity to the exterior , which are wanting in some genera .
A full description of the genitalia of Acanthodrilus is still a desideratum .
The exact position of the testes and ovaries is not known , nor do my very young specimens from Kerguelen enable me to supply the required information .
Opening close by the side of the penial bristles , and with its orifice covered by a flap of integument ( fig. 7 ) , is a tube ( one on each side in each of the two penial segments ) which runs horizontally , and expands into a short , undulated , thick walled caecum .
These four caeca have been observed by Perrier in the various species of Acanthodrilus studied by him , and appear to be prostatic glands connected each with a distinct vas deferens , which place the four male genital orifices in continuity with the testes situated about the 11th segment .
The four caeca ( see fig. 7 pr .
) are TERRESTRIAL ANNELIDA.\#151 ; E. RAY LANKESTER .
well developed in the specimen from Kerguelen 's Land , hnt I was unable to find the testes or vasa deferentia in these small specimens .
The cingulum noticed by Perrier in his on the 14th , 15th , 16th , 17th segments , was not developed in my specimens .
The copulatory pouches , which in the species described by Perrier are placed to the number of two pairs in the 8th and 9th or 8th and 10th segments , have a similar position in the new species , namely , on the line of the latero-ventral series of setae between the 7th and 8th and the 8th and 9th segments .
The cephalic protuberance , prostomium , or upper lip ( fig. 3 pr ) is worthy of note from its peculiar setting in the buccal ring ; a similar form of prostomium is described by Perrier in the Acanthrodrilus of Madagascar .
Distinctive features of the Acanthrodriltjs of Kerguelen s Land .
Male orifices and penial setae placed in the 17th and 19th segments ; orifices of the copulatory pouches between the 7th and 8th , and 8th and 9th segments .
Setae arranged , not in four double , but in eight single rows , viz. : right and left medio-ventral , latero-ventral , latero-dorsal , and medio-dorsal .
The latero-ventral and medio-ventral rows converge in the 16th , 17th , 18th , and 19th segments .
The penial setae are formed by eight setigerous sacs , a latero-ventral and a medio-ventral to each of the four male genital pores .
The prostomial lobe is short , and sunk within the buccal ring .
The genus and species are briefly characterised thus :\#151 ; Acanthrodrilus , Ldm .
Lumbricidcc post-clitelliani , poris genitalibus masculis quattuor , duobus in seg .
17,18 , vel 19 ; duobus in seg .
19 , 20 , vel 21 , prope setas ventrales positis .
Setae ventrales , poros genitales juxta , valde elongatae et numerosae , peniales dicuntur .
Bursae copulatrices utrinque duae in seg .
7 , 8 , vel in segmentis vicinalibus .
Acanthodrilus herguele , sp. n. A. poris genitalibus masculis in seg .
17 et seg .
19 positis ; bursis copulatricibus inter seg .
7 et 8 , et inter seg .
8 et 9 .
Setae locomotores in lineis 8 ordinatae , utrinque medio-ventrales , latero-ventrales , latero-dorsales et medio-dorsales .
Lobus prosto-mialis brevis , rotundus , annulo buccali immersus .
l l 2 15\#151 ; -1 Explanation of the Woodcut .
Fig. 1 .
Young specimen of Acanthodrilus natural size .
Fig. 2 .
The anterior twenty-one segments of the same magnified and seen from the ventral aspect , to show the position of the setae and the genital orifices .
Id , latero-dorsal series of setae .
tv , latero-ventral series of setae .
my , medio-ventral series of setae .
The medio-dorsal series are not visible .
Between segments 7 , 8 , and 8 , 9 , are seen the orifices of the copulatory pouches .
In segment 17 , and segment 19 are seen the two pairs of male genital pores , which are provided with the penial setae .
Fig. 3 .
Dorsal view of the three anterior segments to show the form of the prostomial lobe pr.md , medio-dorsal setae .
Id , latero-dorsal setae .
Fig. 4 .
Diagrammatic section through the thirtieth segment to show the position of the eight series of setae , and of the openings of the segmental organs .
md , mcdio-dorsal setae .
TERRESTRIAL ANNELIDA.\#151 ; E. RAY LANKESTER .
Id , latero-dorsal setae .
Iv , latero-ventral setae .
my , medio-ventral setae .
sg , segmental organs .
Fig. 5 .
Ordinary locomotor setae .
Fig. 6 .
One of the penial setae ( " genital setae " mild of and Neds ) , drawn to the same scale as fig. 5 .
Fig. 7 .
The male genital orifices and setigerons pores of the left side ( diagrammatic ) .
int , cut edge of the integument .
fl , flap of the integument which overlies the male genital orifice ovd , orifice of the vas deferens .
pmv , penial seta and orifice of the medio-ventral series .
plv , penial seta and orifice of the latero-ventral series .
ss , penial setae in the setigerous sac .
pr , prostatic caecum of Perrier .
my , medio-ventral locomotor setae .
Iv , latero-ventral locomotor setae .
m longitudinal muscular hand separating the orifices of the medio-ventral and latero-ventral setigerous sacs .
The setae , setigerous sacs , and prostatic caecum of the 19tli segment are not represented .
They would he identical with those of the 17th .

