Observations on the diurnal Variation of the Magnetic Needle , at the Whale Fish Islands , Davis 's Strait .
By Lieutenant Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. Read April 13 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part IV .
p. 71 .
] Magnetical Observations at Port Bowen , &amp; 8c .
A.D. 1824-25 , comprehending Observations on the diurnal Variation and diurnal Intensity of the Horizontal Needle ; also on the Dip of the Magnmtic Needle at J'oolwich , and at different Stations , within the arctic Circle .
By Captain W. E. Parry , R.N. F.R.S. and Lieutenant Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. Read April 13 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part IV .
p. 73 .
] Abstract of the daily Variation of the Magnetic Needle No. 2 .
By Lieutenant Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. Read April 13 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part IV .
p. 118 .
] Observations for determining the Dip of the Magnetic Needle .
By Captain W. E. Parry , R.N. F.R.S ' .
and Lieutenant Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. Read April 13 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part IV .
p. 126 .
] Observations on the diurnal Changes in the Position of the Horizontal Needle , under a reduced directive Power , at Port Bowen , 1825 .
By Lieutenant Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. *Communicated January 12 , 1826 .
Read April 13 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part IV .
p. 129 .
] A Comparison of the diurnal Changes of Intensity in the Dipping and Horizontal Needles , at Port Bowen .
By Lieutenant Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. Communicated February 25 , 1826 .
Read April 13 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part IV , p. 177 .
] Account of the Repetition of Mr. Christie 's Experiments on the Magnetic Properties imparted to an Iron Plate by Rotation , at Port Bowen , in May and June , 1825 .
By Lieutenant Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. ; together with Mr. Christie 's Remarks thereon .
Read April 13 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part IV .
p. 188 .
] In these communications are recorded all the magnetic observations made by Liieutenant Foster , alone or in conjunction with Captain Parry and the other officers of the North Western Expedition , in the years 1824 and 1825 ; and they embrace a variety of points of prominent interest in the theory of magnetism .
They are digested under separate heads , according as they refer to one or other of the following points:1 .
The variation , and its daily and hourly change , 2 .
The dip , and the changes observed in it , 3 .
The intensity of the earth 's magnetic force , as estimated in a horizontal plane , and that of the dipping-needle , as referred to its natural direction .
T`he variation of the magnetic needle is the deviation of the direction in which it rests from the astronomical meridian , or the angle between the planes of the magnetic and astronomical meridians , This angle has long been known to be in a constant state of change , and its alterations have been observed not only from year to year , but from day to day .
It has been ascertained that , independent of the gradually progressive change by which the magnetic meridian shifts its direction through large arcs in long times , a daily oscillation takes place , which , in these magnetic latitudes , is of small amount , and can only be rendered prominent by neutralizing the principal part of the earth 's directive power , according to a method proposed and practised by Mir .
Barlow .
In the high magnetic latitudes visited by the Expedition , however , the horizontal directive force of the earth is naturally so much weakened by the effect of the dip , as to allow these oscillations to be observed with great distinctness , without artificial aid , by merely suspending the needle by a silk fibre .
By this mode of observing , Captain Parry and Lieutenant Foster have found the diurnal change of variation to be seldom less than one degree , and sometimes to have amounted to five or even seven degrees ; .
with this remarkable addition , that the changes in its amount appeared to them to have obvious reference to the position of the sun and , less distinctly , to that of the moon .
They decline , however , entering into any investigation of the laws of the influence of these bodies , leaving them professedly to those who are theoretically conversant with these subjects .
In casting our eyes down the table of variations , in which are registered , hourly and frequently half-hourly , from the beginning of December , 1824 , to the end of May , 1825 , the positions assumed by two needles ( whose , constructions , &amp;c. are minutely described ) , -it is impossible not to be struck with the unsteadiness of the needles .
They appear to have been in a perpetual state of fluctuation , advancing or receding alternately and by impulses , and in some in- !
stances passing their mean positions from side to side as often as nine times in the twenty-four hours .
This irregular fluctuation is one of the most remarkable features of this class of the observations .
By an abstract of this table , in which the positions of the sun and moon , the state of the weather , the aurora borealis , &amp;c. are recorded , it appears that the influence of the sun in increasing the diurnal oscillation is much more marked than that of the moon ; and that , contrary to received opinion , the aurora borealis seemed to have had no influence , The regular increase of the amplitude of the diurnal oscillations Nwith the advance of the sun to the north is very striking , and not to be mistaken .
A series of observrations on the horizontal position of the needle utnider a directive force , reduced by Mr. Barlow 's method , by Lieut , Poster , forms the subject of anothce part of this conmmunication .
In the course of these observations , the fluctuating state of the directive energy was frequently rendered remarkably obvious , and in one instance not only daily and hourly , but even momentary oscillations were perceived .
This observation induced Lieut. Foster to examine the intensity of the magnetism during those oscillations , in which a corresponding fluctuation was detected , and that so rapid , as to compensate itself during the time of the needle performing 60 vibrations , though its effects were very sensible in intervals of only ten .
Accordingly , he was induced to refer this fluctuation in position to a fluctuation in intensity as its cause .
The next branch of this inquiry is directed to the dip of the needle at the various stations visited by the Expedition , and especially at Port Bowen ; when the mean dip was found , by a series of observations , extending from November 1 to June 27 , to be 88 ? ?
1 ' 23 " .
The intensities came next under consideration .
The relative intensities at the different stations are first deduced by vibrating various dipping-needles in the plane of the magnetic meridian .
This gives the actual , or , as it may be termed , the natural intensity of the earth 's directive force , unreduced by the effect of the dip .
But besides this , Lieutenant Foster has instituted a separate series of experiments at Port Bowen , in which the same needle , being alternately suspended as a dipping and a horizontal needle , its times of vibration under both circumstances were observed ; and from these observations the author thinks himself entitled to conclude that the changes actually observed in the apparent intensity of the horizontal directive force , are not due to any real and general change in the total magnetism of the earth , but arise only from a minute change in the dip itself .
He observes that , without entering into minute calculations on the subject , he believes it will be found that if the magnetic pole of the earth be supposed to describe a small circle about its mean position , of about 2 ' or 2- ' in radius , it will reconcile to a considerable degree of precision nearly all the observations of the daily variations , both in direction and intensity of the horizontal magnetism , both in Europe and in the arctic circle .
These communications are terminated by an account of the repetition of Mr. Christie 's experiments on the magnetic properties conmmunicated to iron plates by rotation , and with a paper of remarks thereon by Mr. Christie himself .
The observations are given in an abstracted form , but accompanied with a statement of them in full detail .
In the course of these observations the phenomena observed by Mr. Christie on a minute scale , were here , by reason of the advantageous geographical situation of Port Bowen , so strikingly developed as to excite the greatest interest in all who witnessed them .
A perfect correspondence was found between the direction of the deviation due to rotation , as observed and as predicted by Mr , Christie ; and a numerical agreement in the results , as great as any expectation could warrant , obtained .
The whole of these results , Mr. Christie observes , prove that the phenomena due to rotation are not merely of theorletical but of practical imrportance , as connected with the probluem of correcting the deviation of the compass on ship-board by an iron plate ; for should circumstances require the removal and replacement of the compensating plate in high northern latitudes , its magnetism might be so altered by the effect of rotation as materially to injure its compensating property .
The means of avoiding this disagreeable consequence are pointed out .

