]\gt ; The Motion of Plane Lamina in Resisting Medium .
By S. BRODETSKY , M.A. , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Prof. G. H. Bryan , F.R.S. Received July 20 , 1916 .
) The General Problem .
1 .
A plane lamina , AB fig. 1 ) , is perpendicular to the plane of the paper , and moves in two dimensions in this plane .
We use the following notation:\mdash ; is the velocity of the centre of mass , , of the lamina ; are the velocity components along and perpendicular to the lamina ; is the inclination of the lamina to some fixed direction , ; is the angle between the velocity and the direction of the lamina\mdash ; the " " angle of attack\ldquo ; ; FIG. 1 .
is the angle between the velocity and the fixed direction , , so tha ; is the normal air resistance , supposed to act at ; is the couple which , with , represents the effect of the air resistance , tending to diminish ; we measure forces in dynamical units , i.e. , in poundals or dynes ; is the mass of the lamina and its , so that\mdash ; Mg is the weight ; I is the moment of inertia of the lamina , etc. , about an axis through perpendicular to the plane of motion ; Two-Dirnensional of Plane Lamina .
X , are components of the external applied forces , as gravity or propeller thrust , along the direction , and perpendicular to CD down , acting at the centre of mass .
We suppose the centre of mass to be in the lamina at , and the centre of pressure for to coincide with the centre of mass when there is no rotation , so that in this standard case the couple is zero .
The equations of motion can be written in either of the following forms:\mdash ; ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) I -G .
It is sometimes more convenient to use the form ( 1 ) , and at other times the form ( 2 ) .
2 .
The quantities and are complicated functions of the size and shape and disposition of the lamina , of the angle of attack , , of the velocity , and of the rotation .
Experiment shows that air resistances vary as the squares of the rates of displacement .
It follows that we ought to use the general formula where are functions whose coefficients involve the geometrical circumstances of the lamina .
Such general forms would , however , render the equations of motion quite unintegrable .
We shall therefore use only the first one or two terms in the functions supposed expanded in Fourier 's series .
If the lamina is symmetrical about a line through perpendicular to the plane of motion , we may write ( 4 ) Dr. S. Brodetsky .
The Two-Dimensional where is the area of the lamina , is a resistance constant depending upon the disposition of the area and the nature of the medium , and the and are numbers .
Experiment shows that in each infinite series only the first few terms are at all important .
But we can simplify our problem if we suppose , as is generally the case in actual aeroplanes , that the dimension , AB , of the lamina is small , compared to the dimensions of the appendages of the lamina .
The effect of this supposition is that we may altogether neglect the terms in the air resistance that depend upon powers of the dimension , AB , higher than the first or second .
If then , the angular velocity is not large , we may put zero , and make proportional to .
In this case of a narrow lamina we shall in the first instance use the sine law ( 5 ) as a hypothetical value for R. But , in order to make our results more applicable to practice , we shall consider the composite form fromfrom with the obvious changes in the sign of when is in other quadrants .
This agrees tolerably closely with the measurements of Eiffel and others , as well as with the formula suggested by Duchemin .
Finally , in accordance with a suggestion by Prof. Bryan , we shall investigate the problem with a fromfrom ( 7 ) This also agrees tolerably with experiment in the case of a square lamina , and has the advantage of simplifying the analysis ( see S8 ) .
If the lamina is not quite so narrow , we have to take account of the shift of the centre of pressure .
If we still suppose the rotation to be moderate , we can use for any of the values ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , or ( 7 ) .
But for we write , ( 8 ) which will be found to agree fairly well with the measurements of Soreau and others , for all values of the angle of attack Lamina with Large Moment of .
Motion und Forces .
3 .
We first consider the motion of the lamina under the sole influence of the air resistance , there being no other external applied forces .
Very Narrow Inmino.\mdash ; If the lamina is very narrow , whilst the moment Motion of a Plane Lamina in Resistin of inertia , I , is considerable , we are justified in assuming that the resistance .
couple has no appreciable effect .
Using the sine law for , the equations of motion ( 2 ) give si We thus get , a constant , so that the first two equations of ( 9 ) become ( 10 ) where A is the constant Equations ( 10 ) give , ( 11 ) a relation between and .
This can be written in the form , ( 12 ) since is the constant The differential equation can be used to find out the nature of the motion .
In spite of its very simple form , it does not appear to be integrable in exact terms .
We can , however , use it to obtain a graphical relation between and It is convenient to adopt the convention indicated in fig. 2 .
We take to be positive always .
Further , is taken to be positive or negative according as it is froInC to or from to A. Finally , we call positive if it is on the side to A of the rotation , and negative if it is on the side to B. The effect of this convention is that can be taken to be positive in all cases .
This constant , , in the equation ( 12 ) only affects the dimensions of the curves represented by this equation , and not the shapes .
Thus , if we plot the curves represented by the equation , ( 13 ) Dr. S. Brodetsky .
The Two-Dimensional FIG. 2 .
we have only to multiply each radius vector by the constant , and we obtain the curves ( 12 ) .
The curves ( 13 ) constitute a singly infinite family , no two members of which can pass through the same point .
The family as a whole possesses symmetry about the origin , for the equation ( 11 ) is unaltered if we change the signs of both and 4 .
In order to plot the curves ( 13 ) it is useful to .
find the locus of the points of inflexion on the curves , as well as the locus of the points at which the curves are parallel to the axis of .
From ( 13 ) we get after some reduction Hence the points of inflection lie on the curve .
( 14 ) This locus is plotted in fig. 3 , dots and dashes .
The points at which the curves are parallel to the axis are given by the condition i.e. , , ( 15 ) by ( 11 ) .
This locus is also traced in fig. 3 , broken line .
It is asymptotic to the locus of inflexions , both loci being asymptotic to the lines as shown in the Jure .
Some of the curves ( 13 ) are shown in fig. 3 .
Each one consists of a portion beyond the locus of inflexions , convex to the axis ; then there is a point of inflexion , and after that each curve assumes the form of a spiral , everywhere concave to the origin , and reaching the origin after an infinite number of convolutions , whose ultimate shape is circular .
The limiting case , in which the point of inflexion is at infinity , as well as the furthest Motion of a Plane in Resisting Medium .
intersection with the axis , is represented by the two dotted curves in the figure .
These are asymptotic to the locus of inflexions and to the locus of maxima and minima\mdash ; points at which the curves are parallel to the axis\mdash ; and are situated between these loci .
To adapt the figure to the more general value in ( 12 ) , we let the distance of the asymptotes from the axis represent the number , i.e. , , the scale of being altered in the same ratio .
5 .
It is readily seen that the progress of changes in and obtained by moving along any curve inwards to the origin , corresponds to the continuous progress of time forwards .
Thus have by ( 10 ) where according to our convention is positive .
Hence when is positive , increases with , and when is negative , decreases as the time gresses forwards .
Reference to fig. 3 , shows that these facts imply a continuous approach to the origin along any curve as increases .
If we take any point there is a definite curve passing through it .
Thus , with given initial values of the velocity components we get to know exactly the changes that take place in the components , by following up this Dr. S. Brodetsky .
The curve till we come to the origin .
The radius vector to any.point in the figure represents the resultant velocity , , and the angle that the radius vector makes with the axis is the angle of attack at any instant .
We see then that the velocity , , continuously decreases to zero , whilst the angle of attack passes through cycles of progressive changes to It only remains to introduce the time element , and thus also incidentally the .
By means of the relation ' ( 16 ) given by ( 10 ) , we can follow out the changes in the various quantities corresponding to gradual ression of the time , and therefore also of since 6 .
We have , therefore , developed a method which can be applied to plot the path of the centre of the lamina , as well as the direction of the lamina , with tolerable ease .
We reserve the carrying out of the process to a later stage , where we shall also take into account the effect of ravity .
But we can obtain some information about the path of the centre of mass by means of the following reasoning .
In the second equation 01 ( 1 ) , put We get so that -A where is an element of length of the path .
Hence , ( 17 ) where is the radius of curvature of the path .
Again , since the increase of between any two values , is given by .
( 18 ) From 17 ) it follows that the radius of curvature of the path is never less than numerically , it being quite unaffected by the progressive decrease in .
Also , whenever is a multiple of a right , and this happens an indefinite number of times before the motion of translation is destroyed , there rotation iourse , what wxpected femotion predominates , mtil fafter anfinite tocity rains cence , otary paCions gniti 1arrive aowing gusions -oint ofrom ( educe thuse ories ooops , imiuishing oationIf tocity imoderate , ating pesisti , of energy .
7 .
The sine law for the normal air resistance is inapplicable in practice for ; values of greater than .
For values of , i.e. , for the parts of the -plane where , we need to adopt some other hypothesis , a suitable one being , ( 19 ) the notation of 83 .
When is positive , become SA ( 20 ) being the constant angular velocity .
The solution for negative is obtained bymmetry ariginwhere Cbitrary constant Tritteni.once mefirst insta curves their dimen.sions bpper hofthe ( etween times vines vseWe gositive vtionWhen vtive , ower.etween ttekV .
In the remainder of the plane we use the curves given by S4 , plotted in VOL. XCV .
Dr. .
Brodetsky . .
We thus obtain a set of composite curves , which represent with reasonable accuracy the motion of the narrow lamina under no forces but subject to the resistance of the air , or of any other medium .
As in S5 , have in terms of the time , whilst the direction of the lamina is iven by The composite curves are plotted in fig. 4 .
The points of inflexion lie on the curves marked in dots an .
dashes , and the points where the curves are parallel to the axis lie on the curves marked in dashes .
The dotted curves represent the cases , when starts off at 8 .
For a square plate , or one in which the aspect ratio is a little greater than unity , Prof. Bryan suggests the use of the law of resistance , , varying as the sine of twice the angle of attack , for values of this angle up to something reater than , in accordance with the measurements by Dines .
Although the maximum in Dines ' curve ( see Lanchester 's " " Aerodynamics fig. 101 ) is about , still the hypothesis Motion of Plane in a Resisting Jledium .
, front frolu ( 7 ) with values in other ants , is a fair representation , and can be used to exalnine the of the maximulu .
The nlaximum is about times the more or less constant value after the drop .
Also is 12 .
With the sine twice angle hypothesis , equations ( 9 ) give ( 24 ) When positive , equations , ( 25 ) ' which on integration gives const , once more the constant .
We agaiu put , and then adapt the results to all values of by multiplying the dimensions of the curves thus obtained by the quantity Hence , in the half -plane , between the lineq , we plot the curves , const .
For negative , i.e. , in the left half of the -plane , between the lines , we use symmetry about the origin , or plot - const .
) It is important to notice that the constants in the equations ( 27-8 ) may also have complex values , so that we get curves covering the whole of the space to which the sine twice angle law applies .
In the remainder of the -plane , , above and below the lines , we use the curves given by S7 .
We thus once more a set of composite curves , which can be used to discuss the motion .
These are plotted in fig. 5 .
The lines in dots and dashes are the inflexion loci , and the dashed arcs are the points where the culves are parallel to the axis .
The dotted curves are the limiting cases , stat t off at Dr. S. Brodetsky .
The Two-dimensional .
In these limiting cases we have constant,.whilst increases from or decreases from , until the value is reached , when also begins to vary .
FIG. 5 .
This curious result is obvious from the equations ( 24 ) .
It means that under the sine twice angle law , if remains constant .
If this law were to hold for all values of , this constant value would be maintained till reached the value zero\mdash ; not later , as is clear from considerations of energy which necessitate a continuous decrease in the resultant velocity .
In the present yation , the constancy of stops at the limit of the applicability of the sine twice angle law .
Motion of Plane in a Wider 9 .
When the moving lamina is not so that altogether neglect the shift of the centre of pressure , we must take account of the resistance couple .
If we still suppose the rotation to be small , we can , usin the sine law or a substitute , again reduce the equations of motion to ordinary differential equations of the first order , similar to but slightly more complicated than those already iven .
These can be solved graphically , and several interesting properties of this type of motion deduced .
Motic ?
mder any Forces .
10 .
It is evident that , if we introduce additional applied forces , the equations of motion will be even less tractable than those for motion under no forces .
Before adapting the graphical method of this paper to the more difficult problem , we must mention a method that has often been used in the study of particular cases .
The method consists in assuming some arbitrary but convenient relation between two or more of the variables that define the motion .
Although such an assumption must be quite artificial , and in general not quite justified , nevertheless the consideration of such artificially constructed problems can lead , and has led , to important results of practical interest and application .
In connection with the subject of the present investigation , reference should be made to a special " " artificial\ldquo ; problem worked out Rene de Saussure ( Appendix to Langley 's " " The Internal Work of the Wind 'Smithsonian Contributions , ' 1893 ) .
De Saussure assumes that the angle of attack is inversely proportional to the square of the velocity .
This amounts to presupposing some agent introducing the necessary couple at every instant , so as to give the required relation between and .
In this way de Saussure is able to obtain a mathematical illustration of Langley 's theory of the of birds .
The most important case of such an artificial problem is afforded by Lanchester 's " " Theory\ldquo ; ( ' Aerodonetics , ' Ch. II .
, etc In order to obtain an integrable case of the motion of a plane lamina in air under gravity , Lanchester presupposes applied forces which have the effect of supplying the energy that is lost owing to the dissipative effect of the resistance .
It is clear that this cannot be realised in practice , yet the paths thus obtained\mdash ; the phugoids\mdash ; have the great advantage of being near approximations to fact when not far removed from the horizontal , and hence Lanchester was able to discover the correct condition for the longitudinal stability of an aeroplane .
Dr. S. Brodetsky .
The 11 .
In order to apply the graphical method to the case where there are applied forces such as gravity or a propeller thrust , we shall need to make use of the curves connecting the velocity components .
We shall use the composite curves of figs. 4 and 5 .
These give us what we may call the " " fundamental curves for a narrow lamina\ldquo ; of large aspect ratio , and of aspect ratio about unity , respectively .
The fundamental curves refer to no forces .
It is still assumed that the angular velocity is moderate , so that need not introduce any terms into the resistance force and couple involving the rotation .
The external applied forces are supposed to pass through the centre of mass .
When there are impressed forces besides the effect of medium , let us consider what happens during an interval of time , this time the representative point in the plane travels from its initial position to some position on the curve , passing through the initial position .
At the same time , and are increased by amounts , ( 29 ) X , being impressed orce components , as in fig. 1 .
We write these increments in the form , ( 30 ) If , then , in fig. 6 the point represents the motion at the beginning of the interval , and the curve shown in the figure is the curve through , during the interval we go to P2 , where Motion of Lamina a Resisting Now measure off parallel to the axis , and parallel ) the axis , so that ( 31 ) both quantities being taken with their proper signs , and and refelNing to the fundamental curve through .
The representative point in the -plane will therefore in the interval go from to point is on a new fundamental curve .
We repeat the proceRs indefinitely .
In this way we obtain the actnml curves , when X , are given at all points .
The irnportant case is where X , are due to gravity , so that .
( 32 ) 12 .
We consider the narrow lamina of large aspect ratio , using the fundamental curves given by fig. 4 .
In this case we have proved Hence and the angle that makes with the axis of , measured clockwise , is , ( 34 ) being the value of at Using the value of in ( 33 ) in the direction given by ( 34 ) , we get the actual curves , and at the same time have marked on them points corresponding to equal increments of time , and also of equal amounts of rotation .
It is now a comparatively simple process to plot the actual path of the centre of mass of the lamina , as well as the direction of the lamina at each instant .
13 .
Terminal motion would be defined as one in which the circumstances of the motion , namely , recur periodically .
Such a case cannot occur if there are no applied forces , for , owing to the resistance of the medium , energy is being dissipated continually throughout the whole of the motion .
But with external applied forces periodic paths can be obtained .
curve plotted from the fundamental curves in the manner described in SS 11 , 21 , which , starting off at any point , arrives at the point Dr. S. Brodetsky .
The with a slope just equal and opposite to the slope at ) , or arrives at the point with the original slope in the same direction , corresponds to terminal motion .
Of course , a process of trial and error has to be adopted in order to obtain such a path .
If , in addition to gravity , other forces passing through the centre of mass act on the lamina , the process is essentially the same .
In the case of a propeller thrust , this additional force makes a constant angle with the direction of the lamina , so that in each interval the representative point in the -plane travels an additional distance proportional to the thrust parallel to this constant direction .
The method also applies to the square or nearly square lamina of small dimensions with moderate rotation .
For a wider Iamina , or a large square lamina , the method needs modification .
It seems that some work on the wide lamina has been done by Gerlach , Ahlborn , and Koppen , see ' Encyk . .
math .
Wiss , 17 , pp. 172-3 .
14 .
In , 8 the path and direction of a narrow lamina of considerable aspect ratio moving under gravity have been plotted for different initial conditions .
In each case the arrowheads represent the direction of the lamina , and the points at the centres of the arrowheads show the centre of mass of the lamina .
Gravity is downwards , and the rotation is clockwise .
In each case the motion is supposed to commence at the point where the letter designating the case is placed .
The early palt of the motion in is shown enlarged in The cases we have plotted are sufficient to indicate the nature of the lnotion under practically any initial conditions and for any length of time .
The initial part of the motion depends upon the initial conditions .
After some time , whose depends upon the velocity initially , the path approximates to an undulating curve about a line downwards , to the left if tlJe rotation is clockwise , and to the if the rotation is anti-clockwise .
This is the terminal motion for the given value of It will be noticed that for initial conditions intermediate between those of A and of fig. 7 a terminal motion would be obtained at once .
The subject of terminal motion is discussed elsewhere by the author for simplified law of resistance .
15 .
All the paths in figs. 7 , 8 have been obtained for the same values of the resistance coefficient , and the angular velocity .
But we can readily show that the nature of the motion is the same for all values of A and and that in order to obtain the paths for all possible values of A and , we have only to use different values of on the standard scale of fig. 4 , bearing in mind in each case what the actual scale of this plane is in the in a Resisting Medium .
531 / / ' ; / / The of Plane Lamina .
special case unde-r consideration .
When this is done , it is found that the actual curves for motion under gravity retain the same general shapes as those from which the paths in figs. 7 , 8 have been plotted .
The general motion under gravity is therefore always of the same nature , being characterised by an ultimate oscillation about a line inclined to the downward vertical on the same side as the rotation. .
The general similarity between the fundamental curves of figs. 4 and 5 shows that this general property is also true of the nearly square plane lalnina of small dimensions .
A experiments with a light lamina , as , for instance , a thin postcard , will corroborate the results obtained by the graphical method .
The characteristic oscillation about a line on the same side of the downward vertical as the rotation is observed in all cases of the two-dimensional motion of such a card given an initial spin .
In order to obtain more exact verification of these conclusions , photographs were taken at very short intervals of a card moving in the manner discussed .
In this work the author was joined by Dr. A. M. Tyndall , D.Sc .
, Head of the Physics Department of the University of Bristol .
Several of the paths plotted in figs. 7 , 8 were obtained .
One of these photographs is reproduced in fig. 9 .
The case of a lamina with negligible moment of inertia , corresponding to Lanchester 's phugoid theory , and of a lamina oscillating about a vertical fall , corresponding to the case of the parachute , have been nvestigated , and will be published elsewhere .
It is with much pleasure that I acknowledge my yreat imdebtedness to Prof. Bryan , to whom the initiation of this work is due .
Prof. Bryan not only suggested to me the problems discussed in this and other papers , but he also gave me the benefit of his advice and criticism throughout the whole of the investigations .

