The Origin of Mammals .
87 Fig. 18 .
Eight days ' incubation , showing commencing segmentation in the fourth generation .
Fig. 19 .
Nine days ' incubation , showing sporulation in the fourth generation .
Fig. 20 shows a young merozoite of the fifth generation after 10 days ' incubation .
All of the above figures were obtained from one culture tube , without the removal of leucocytes and without the addition of fresh serum or corpuscles .
Fig. 21 shows a young benign tertian parasite at the time of inoculation of the culture tube .
Figs. 22 , 23 , and 24 represent 8 hours ' growth in culture tube at 39 ' C. Figs. 25-30 show parasites obtained from the culture tube after 20-29 hours ' incubation .
Fig. 30 is a female gamete ( undivided chromatin and scattered pigment ) found in the culture tube ; similar gametes were found in the blood at the time of inoculation of the cultures , so it is probable that this gamete was one of these , and that it had not developed in the culture .
Note the large size of the corpuscles in the benign tertian as compared with those in the malignant tertian , also the Schuffner 's dots and the scattered pigment .
The spores also are larger and fewer in number in the case of the benign tertian parasites .
Croonian Lecture : The Origin of Mammals .
By Dr. Bobert Broom .
( Lecture delivered June 5 , 1913 .
) ( Abstract .
) An endeavour is made to trace the evolution of mammals from Cotylosaurian ancestors through the carnivorous Therapsida .
In Upper Carboniferous times the line probably passed through some primitive generalised Pelycosaurs ; in Lower Permian through primitive , probably Therocephalian , Therapsids .
In Middle and Upper Permian the line passed through the Gorgonopsia .
In Triassic times the mammalian ancestors were small generalised Cynodonts .
In Lower Jurassic the mammals are so Cynodont-like , and the Cynodonts so mammal-like , that in no single case are we absolutely certain which is which .
In the Therocephalia , the Gorgonopsia , and the Cynodontia , the skull is very mammal-like .
The zygomatic arch is , as in mammals , formed by the jugal and the squamosal .
The teeth are divided into incisors , canines and molars .
In the later Gorgonopsians there is an imperfect secondary palate ; in Cynodonts a complete secondary palate as in mammals .
In Permian Therapsids there is a single occipital condyle ; in the Triassic Cynodonts gg The Origin of Mammals .
there may he a single condyle slightly divided or two exoccipital condyles .
There is , on passing from earlier to later types , a steady increase in the size of the dentary and decrease in the size of the other elements of the jaw .
The quadrate also becomes much reduced in the higher types .
In Gorgonopsians and probably all earlier types the arch of the atlas is a pair of bones ; in Cynodonts , as in mammals , there is a single arch .
It is argued that the small Gorgonopsians fed almost exclusively on the comparatively slow-moving , small , herbivorous Anomodonts .
In the Trias the small Anomodonts became very rare , and the carnivorous Therapsids had to feed on other small forms , apparently the more active lizard-like Cotylosaurs , such as Procolophon .
The change of habit resulted in the Cynodontia .
In Upper Triassic times the larger Cynodonts preyed upon the large Anomodont , Kannemeyeria , and carried on their existence so long as these Anomodonts survived , but died out with them about the end of the Trias or in Rhsetic times .
The small Cynodonts , having neither small Anomodonts nor small Cotylosaurs to feed on , were forced to hunt the very active long-limbed Thecodonts .
The greatly increased activity brought about that series of changes which formed the mammals\#151 ; the flexible skin with hair , the four-chambered heart and warm blood , the loose jaw with teeth for mastication , an increased development of tactile sensation and a great increase of cerebrum .
Not improbably the attacks of the newly-evolved Cynodont or mammalian type brought about a corresponding evolution in the Pseudosuchian Thecodonts which ultimately resulted in the formation of Dinosaurs and Birds .
A Case of Abnormal Trichromatic Colour Vision due to a Shift in the Spectrum of the Green-Sensation Curve .
By Sir W. de W. Abney , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , and W. Watson , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) [ This paper is published in 1 Proceedings , ' Series A , vol. 89 , No. 610 .
]

