2 .
" On the Laws of the rise and fall of the Tides in the River Thames .
" By George Biddell Airy , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
The conclusions arrived at by the author , and stated in this paper , were derived from an extensive series of observations of the tides , made , on his suggestion , at the Royal Victualling Yard at Deptford , under the superintendence of Captain Shireff , R.N. The object of the first series of observations was simply to ascertain the times of high and low water , for the purpose of ascertaining the duration of the rise and fall of the tide : the height of the water was observed at every quarter of an hour , night and day , during half a lunation .
The curves representing the law of rise and fall of the water were found to be different for high tides and for low tides ; and both are sensibly different from the line of sines .
The author then investigates mathematically the motion of a very long wave , such as a tide-wave , in a rectangular canal , whose section is everywhere the same , on the supposition that the extent of vertical oscillation bears a sensible proportion to the mean depth of the water ; and deduces an expres ?
sion for the vertical elevation of a particle at the surface .
This expression supposes the canal unlimited at the end farthest from the sea .
If the canal be stopped by a barrier , the expression changes its form .
The formulae obtained by the author enable him to explain a circumstance , hitherto perplexing , namely , rthat the age of the tide is different as inferred from the height of the high water , or from the time of high water ; being always greater in the former mode of estimation .
3 .
" Register of Tides , observed at Coringa , from January 1st to June 30th , 1841 .
" 4 .
" Meteorological Journal , from the 20th April 1840 to the 29th April 1841 .
Kept at the Falkland Islands on board H.M. Ketch , Arrow .
" 5 .
" Daily Thermometrical Observations at Cape Palmas , for May 1841 .
" These last three papers were communicated to the Society by the direction of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty .

