A paper was read , entitled , " On the Anatomical and Optical Struc ?
ture of the Crystalline Lenses of Animals , particularly that of the Cod.'* By Sir David Brewster , K.H. , LL. D. , F.R.S. V.P.R.S. Ed. The author was led , by the observations he had made of some very singular phenomena in the crystalline lenses of fishes and quadrupeds when exposed to polarized light , to examine their minute anatomical structure , with the view of ascertaining if it had any relation to these optical appearances .
He found that the crystalline lens of a cod has the form of a prolate spheroid , of which the axis coincides with that of vision .
Its body is enclosed in an exceedingly thin and transparent capsule , within which it floats without having any apparent connexion with that capsule , and consists of a hard nucleus surrounded by softer matter .
The nucleus is composed of regular transparent laminae of equal thickness , with perfectly smooth surfaces , presenting the iridescent appearance peculiar to grooved surfaces , and exhibited by motherof-pearl .
These apparent grooves have the direction of meridian lines converging from the equator , where their breadth is greatest , to the two poles , and indicating the boundaries of the component fibres of the laminae .
The author was enabled to trace the course of these fibres to their termination very satisfactorily , when the fibres themselves could not be rendered visible by the best microscopes , by means of the reflected prismatic images of a luminous object , produced by interference .
This method furnished also an accurate mode of determining the diameter of the fibres at any point of the spheroid .
The uniform distribution of the light refracted through the lamina , as well as the distinctness of the reflected images , prove that these fibres are not cylindrical , but perfectly flat , and gradually tapering in breadth from the equator to the poles of the lens .
The thickness of each fibre is at least five times less than its breadth , which , in the most external layer of the equator , is about the 5500th part of an inch .
The observation of another optical phenomenon apparent on looking at a bright light through a thin lamina of the lens of a cod , namely , that of two faint and broad prismatic images , situated in a line per ?
pendicular to that which joins the common coloured images , led the author to the further discovery of the mode in which the fibres are united laterally to each other , so as to resist separation , and form a continuous spherical surface .
By viewing a well-prepared lamina with a microscope of high magnifying power , he observed that the fibres are united by a series of teeth , locking into one another , exactly like those of rack-work .
The breadth and depth of each tooth are about the fifth part of the breadth of the fibre itself , and all the adjacent surfaces are in perfect optical contact .
This denticulated structure exists in the lenses of every fish which the author examined .
In that of the cod , the number of teeth in each fibre was found to be 12,500 j and since the number of fibres in the whole lens is 5,000,000 , the total number of teeth amount to 62,500,000,000 .
The same structure obtains universally , as far as the author has examined it , in the lenses of birds ; but he has never met with it in any of the Mammalia , not even in the Cetacea .
It was found in two species of lizards , and in the Ornithorhynchus .
In the concluding part of the paper the author enters into some details as to the doubly-refracting structure of the crystalline lens of the cod and of other animals , in which several curious varieties are observable with regard to the relative positions of the strata giving positive or negative double refractions .
In the prosecution of this subject he was led to the observation of a series of very curious phenomena , which he announces as the subject of a future communica ?
tion to the Royal Society .

