370 Mr. E. A. Schafer .
On th Coagulation [ Dec. 7 II .
" Preliminary Notice of an Investigation into the Coagula tion of the Perivisceral Fluid of the Sea-Urchin .
" By E A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received November 8 , 1882 .
The perivisceral fluid of the sea-urchin is a coagulable fluid oi about the same specific gravity and chemical composition as seawater .
The corpuscles which float in it have been described by several observers , and recently very carefully by Mr. P. Geddes , in the " Archives de Zoologie Experimental " for 1880 .
The majority are pale and very amoeboid , resembling the lymph-corpuscles of vertebrates , and the blood-corpuscles of most invertebrates .
Others are more granular in appearance , and others again contain a reddish-brown colouring matter .
The fluid in which they float is usually perfectly clear and colourless when the corpuscles are separated by filtration , and contains no appreciable amount of any proteid matter .
:\#166 ; When the fluid is drawn from the shell into a glass vessel it rapidlyj undergoes what appears to be a sort of coagulation ; the coagulumj soon begins to shrink , and continues to do so to such an extent that ] at the end of a few hours it is reduced to but a small shred of coloured substance .
In this respect the eoagulum closely resembles that of vertebrate blood , and especially of frog 's blood , which may also shrink in a few hours to a very'small bulk .
If the clot is examined with the microscope it is found to contain all the corpuscles ; and these are so closely arranged , and their processes are frequently so long and ramified , that it is difficult to make out the material in which they are embedded .
The material of coagulation seems on this account to have been overlooked by Geddes , who refers the coagulum wholly to the remarkable massing together of the amoeboid pale corpuscles , which he has observed and described.* It is easy , however , to demonstrate the presence of this material of coagulation , and to show that the phenomenon of coagulation is independent of the formation of masses or " plasmodia " of the corpuscles .
, ]\#166 ; If the fluid be mixed as it flows from the shell with an equal volume of saturated solution of sulphate of magnesia , its coagulation is indefinitely delayed .
With such a fluid the following experiments may be made:\#151 ; 1 .
Diluted with water it immediately forms a coagulum which shrinks on standing as does the coagulum of the freshly drawn perivisceral fluid .
The coagulum , when examined with the microscope , appears as a clear substance in which the cells , which are of course dead and for the most part rounded , lie separately embedded .
2 .
If the mixture be filtered all the corpuscles remain on the filter , * Loc .
cit. , and " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 252 .
[ 882 3 'f the Perivisceral Fluid of the Sea- Urchin .
ind a dear fluid passes through .
This gives uo coagulum on dilution , mt the corpuscles , if removed from the filter and suspended m a saturated solution of sulphate of magnesia , exude abundance of the .oaffulable material on the addition of water .
This is not unlike the results obtained by Mr. Wooldridge in the Leipzig Laboratory with white corpuscles from the lymphatic glands and from the blood of I have spoken throughout of the substance , upon the formation or exudation of which from the corpuscles the clotting of the Echinus fluid seems to depend , as coagulable material , and not as fibnne .
It does not , in fact , either in its chemical reactions or m its microscopic characters , bear any sort of resemblance to the fibnne of vertebrate blood , but appears to be more nearly allied to mucin , although the possession by it of the remarkable property of spontaneously shrinking after its first formation gives it a deceptive similarity to fibrine .
The detailed account of the above investigation will be published m the " Journal of Physiology."+ III .
" Preliminary Note on the Structure , Development , and Affinities of Phoronis .
" By W. H. Caldwell , B.A. , Cams College , Cambridge , Demonstrator of Zoology .
Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. K.S. Received November 24 , 1882 .
Owing to the time that must necessarily elapse during the preparation of plates , it has seemed to me advisable to publish the following preliminary account of my observations on the anatomy and development of Phoronis .
These studies were made for the most part in the Zoological Station at Naples .
I am much indebted to Dr. Anton Dohrn for his great kindness and assistance .
I have not thought it necessary in this preliminary note to refer at any length to the observations of previous investigators , J and the bearing of the acts on recent morphological speculation has at most been indicated m the briefest possible manner .
I would , however , specially refer to some observations on the development made in the summei of 1 \#187 ; by Dr. Hatschek , who most generously not only sent me material , but on his return to Naples resigned his work and drawings to me .
* * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 32 , p. 413 ; and " Archiv .
f. ( Anat .
u. ) Physiol. , " 1881 .
t The opportunity for carrying on these observations was affoided me at Scottish Zoological Station of Professor J. Cossar Ewart and Mr. G. J. Romanes .
+ J. Muller , Wagener , Krolin , Gegenbaur , Schneider , Kowalewsky , Metschnikow , Claparede , 'Wright , Dyster , Van Beneden , McIntosh , Wilson , \amp ; c.

