114 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On [ June 19 , In " Watson 's Chemical Essays " ( vol. i , 5th Edn .
, 1789 , p. 73 , note ) the experiment is again described in the following terms:\#151 ; " It is a very remarkable phenomenon that a vessel containing water will never boil , how long soever it be exposed to the action of boiling water .
A common bottle is filled with water , and placed in a pan of water so that the month of the bottle be a little above the water in the pan .
The pan is set on the fire , and its contents made to boil violently at 212 ' F. , while the water in the bottle will only reach 202 ' .
" In repeating this experiment , I used for the onter vessel a large wide-mouthed flask filled about two-thirds with water , heated by means of a spirit lamp ; and for the inner vessel a glass tube , suspended by means of a string attached to the top ring of the retort stand which supported the flask .
In this way the tube could be raised or lowered so as to place the level of the water contained in it above or below the level of the water in the flask .
The experiment , under this form , has been frequently repeated , and it was found that , in general , after the water in the flask had been boiling for some time , the temperature of the water in the tube was not more than 1-^ ' or 2 ' F. below that in the outer vessel .
The inferior temperature of the water in the tube is evidently due to evaporation ; and as there were no very clear ideas on this subject until the time of Tlalton , the early observers regarded the result as paradoxical .
On covering the water in the tube with a layer of oil , the temperature rose to that of the water in the flask , and bubbles of steam escaped freely from the surface of the water through the oil .
The oil used was olive in one case , and a volatile oil of high boiling point , such as cajuput , in another .
On passing the thermometer through the oil down into the tube , bubbles of steam were given off freely from the bulb and stem , thus further illustrating one of the points maintained in my paper on the action of nuclei in liberating vapour from boiling liquids , contained in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " vol. 17 , p. 240 .
VI .
" Notes on the Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from the Andes of Ecuador , collected by E. Whymper .
No. III .
Cotopaxi and Chimborazo .
" By Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 6 , 1884 .
In regard to these two important volcanic mountains of the Ecuadorian Andes , Mr. Whymper has favoured mo with some descriptive notes , which appear to me of so much interest that I incorporate them with but slight modification into my paper .
1884.1 Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Ecuador .
115 Cotopaxi .
" Two volcanoes in Ecnador\#151 ; Sangai and Cotopaxi\#151 ; are always in a state of activity , and , of these two , the latter is the higher and the more important mountain .
Cotopaxi , according to my observations with mercurial barometer on its summit , is 19,650 feet high , and it is the second in altitude of the Andes of Ecuador , being inferior only to Chimborazo .
" It is situated approximately north-east of Chimborazo at a distance of 65 miles , and lies south-east of Quito at a distance of about 32 miles .
It is nearly dhe east of the Tiupullo ridge ( 11,550 ) over which the road to Quito passes , and few mountains look so imposing as it does from this direction\#151 ; the atmosphere of smoke and haze which is always hanging about it , subduing its details without concealing its general contour , produces an effect of stupendous size and enormous height .
" The volcano proper , as regards its north , west , and southern sides , may be considered to rise from a plateau , which is elevated about 11,500 feet above the sea .
I have only seen the eastern side from considerable distances , and , as well as I can judge , the mountain would appear to reach a lower level on the east than upon any other side .
No houses are , so far as I am aware , situated within 10 miles of the crater\#151 ; the nearest , on the west , being at Santa Ana ( 10,335 ) on the Quito road ; on the south-west by west at the village of Mulalo ( 10,036 ) ; and on the north-north-west at the hamlet of Pedregal ( 11,628 ) .
" To judge correctly of the general form of this volcano , it is necessary to view it at a considerable distance .
At 15 miles , or further away , the upper 8,000 or 9,000 feet present the appearance of a very regular and slightly blunted cone .
As the longer axis of the crater has a northerly and southerly direction , the mountain looks sharper when viewed from the north and south than it does when seen from the west .
The symmetrical appearance of the volcano diminishes considerably upon a near approach , as its slopes are extremely rugged , and its subordinate features acquire undue importance through the effect of foreshortening .
Although much snow falls upon the upper 4,000 or 5,000 feet of the mountain it seldom wears a snowy aspect , through the ash which is continually being ejected quickly blackening it , and from rapid liquefaction , owing to the warmth of the cone .
" With the view of inspecting the interior of the crater ( respecting which apparently contradictory accounts had been given by those who had previously ascended the mountain ) , I proposed to encamp close to the summit , in order that we might see the crater by night .
The first day 's march took us from the town of Machachi ( 9,850 ) to the hamlet of Pedregal ( 11,628 ) , and the second day to the lower 116 Prof. T. Gr .
Bonney .
On [ June 19 , slopes of the mountain , where we encamped , on its west-north-west side , at the height of 15,100 feet .
Bad weather for two days prevented the establishment of a camp upon the summit , but on February 18 , 1880 , a tent was placed on the western side of the terminal cone , on the outside , about 130 feet below the highest point .
The slope was entirely composed of ash , piled up almost to the maximum angle at which it could repose , and it was necessary to cut deeply into it to obtain a sufficiently secure platform .
A maximum thermometer placed on the floor of the tent rose to 110 ' F. , and water boiled at 179 ' .
The exterior temperature at the same time ranged from 15 ' to 20 ' F. " Our first ( and lower ) camp was made on the side of one of the numerous lava* streams which are found on the west of the mountain , and the tent was pitched upon beds of ash , which extended considerably lower down than our position .
The volcano , although in a state of activity , was not in eruption .
Explosions or violent noises were frequently heard in the bowels of the mountain , resembling such sounds as may be produced by slamming doors at the ends of long passages in a large building .
They caused scarcely any tremour .
On the way up , when about 1,500 feet below the summit , we were incommoded by puffs of strongly sulphurous vapour , proceeding apparently from fissures in the cone ; but when encamped upon the summit , during a stay of twenty-six hours , we neither heard such noises as those referred to , nor were we in any way inconvenienced by the vapours proceeding from the crater .
" Steam and smoke were continually issuing from the crater and simmering over the edge , but we heard no extraordinarily loud noises , and for some hours devoted our whole attention to firmly establishing the tent , which was a matter of no little difficulty , owing to the unstable nature of our platform and the high wind which prevailed .
The mountain , according to the general testimony of the natives in the neighbourhood , had been unusually quiet for some time past .
As this calm might be interrupted at any moment , I directed my people that , in the event of an eruption , everything was to be abandoned , and each was to shift for himself as best he could .
" When our tent was well secured , we went up to the edge of the rim to inspect the interior .
Little could be seen of it , even of the part immediately underneath us .
The rock of the rim was a compact and very tough and heavy trachyte ( a specimen is described below ) , and the immediate summit of the rim was everywhere jagged and irregular .
Some points upon it rose 100 to 150 feet above the general level .
At no time during daylight on the 18th could we see all round the rim at any one moment , but we made the circuit of about one* This stream is called Yanasache .
1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Bocks from Ecuador .
117 third of the crater , and gradually inspected the whole of it as the wind shifted the smoke hither and thither .
" On the first occasion that we mounted to the edge of the rim , we had been standing there only a few minutes , when a loud roar occurred at the bottom of the crater , and volumes of steam were ejected , which rose to our level in two or three seconds , spread out in vast clouds , and were gradually dissipated .
We looked at each other with alarm , not knowing what was going to happen .
We probably all thought alike\#151 ; that an eruption was about to occur , and that we had best run for our lives .
As quiet reigned again , we remained , and found that such explosions occurred about every half-hour during our stay on the summit .
The vapour ejected appeared to be pure steam , and it appeared to issue from the ( roughly ) circular orifice at the bottom of the crater .
It rose with great rapidity , taking , I think , not more than two to three seconds to rise the 1,200 feet from the bottom of the crater to the level of the rim .
When it reached us it could not be said even to be warm , and it was quite devoid of odour .
The explosions were momentary\#151 ; the affair of an instant \#151 ; and during the instants of their occurrence the noise resembled that which is made when large ocean steamers are blowing off steam .
" In course of time , as eddies of wind shifted the vapour in the crater from one to another part , we gradually made out its general form and nature .
Its form above is roughly oval , and at the bottom rudely circular .
The general angle from the edge of the rim to the bottom exceeds 45 ' .
The mean of a great number of observations would perhaps be about 48 ' .
At " no part is there a continuous slope from top to bottom .
The amphitheatre is made up of a large number of cliffs ( often vertical , and even overhanging ) , and of slopes of all degrees .
This character continues all the way down .
The upper part was not noticeably fissured , but from about half-way down , down to .
the bottom , cracks and fissures were numerous ; and from these apertures vapours of various tints were lazily issuing\#151 ; some white , greyish , or dark , but none were inky black .
These vapours perpetually obscured the inferior part of the crater , the influence of the wind not being felt so low down .
From this cause , I am unable to state positively from what part the ejections of steam occurred which have been referred to above .
" In the evening of February 18th , when it became dark , I went again to the edge of the crater to view the interior .
Less smoke appeared to be issuing from the cracks at the bottom , and it did not now prevent the examination of any part .
The fissures for several hundreds of feet from the extreme bottom of the crater were now radiant with heat , and the lowest part was occupied by a circular , glowing , fiery spot , which I estimated to be 180 feet across , or about one-tenth of the entire diameter of the crater .
I examined 118 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On the [ June 19 , this a long time attentively with an excellent field-glass , without being able to determine whether this spot represented the upper end of a pipe filled with molten lava , or whether it was only incandescent matter .
Flames were flickering and travelling about it in all directions .
I compare the appearance they presented to that seen when a flat dish is half covered with lighted spirit .
The flames that I saw travelled to and fro in the same peculiar manner .
Besides the flames which were at the surface of the orifice or pipe of the crater , there were others in many places flickering over the glowing fissures .
The appearance and behaviour of these flames gave me the impression that there was a comparatively tranquil atmosphere at the bottom ; anyhow there was nothing that suggested the existence of strong blasts issuing from the fissures .
" After spending a considerable time in the examination of this remarkable spectacle we returned to the tent , and divided the night into three watches .
At 11 p.m. , when I was asleep , an explosion occurred which caused the lantern suspended from the ridge of the tent to oscillate to and fro\#151 ; at least so I was informed by my assistant , J. A. Carrel , who was keeping watch at the time .
During my own watch nothing remarkable occurred .
The ejections of steam could be heard going off from time to time ; but the noise made on these occasions ( as heard in the tent placed on the outside of the crater ) was not alarming .
The steam sometimes boiled over the edge of the rim , and enveloped the tent .
Temperature fell during the night to 13 ' F. " We were astir at daybreak on the 19th , and went again to the edge of the rim .
The bottom of the crater was again indistinguishable by reason of steam , but the upper part of it was reasonably clear .
1 photographed a part of it , and measured directly 600 feet along the rim by means of a fine line , and , by taking angles with a theodolite from the two ends of this base , found that the diameter of the rim was about 2,000 feet from north to south , and 1,500 feet from east to west .
" Our tent was rendered \amp ; dusky grey colour by fragments of scoria-ceous matter , which were ejected during our stay .
A quantity of this was collected ( described below ) .
These minute fragments were evidently thrown out by the steam blasts , though it should be said that I did not on any single occasion notice anything ejected with or falling from the steam .
" After 8 a.m. on the 19th the wind became dangerously high , and we could not remain upon the rim , but we stayed near the summit until 2 p.m. , re-ascending from time to time when the weather moderated .
We arrived again at the first camp on the evening of the 19th , and at Machachi on February 24th .
" The following supplementary remarks occur to me:\#151 ; 1884.1 Microscopic Structure of some RocJcs from .
119 " Although the final cone of Cotopaxi is externally principally coated with a deep bed of ash , and is , upon the whole , very regular in form and slope , and is almost featureless , it may be remarked j ( a. ) That on its northern side , extending close up to the rim of the crater , there is a large piece of almost perpendicular precipice , upon which neither ash nor snow can repose .
This resembles the great cliffs which I have referred to as occurring near the summit of Chimborazo on its southern and north-western sides .
( \amp ; .
) That although the ash upon the final cone of Cotopaxi is exceedingly warm ( at a depth of 8 feet in it we found it had a temperature of 110 ' F. ) , there are intermixed with it streaks of snow and ice , which , being blackened , are not readily perceived , and are somewhat dangerous to the traveller .
" From a little below the foot of the final cone ( say 1,500 feet below the summit ) I observed glaciers on each side of the ridge we ascended , which glaciers extended downwards for 1,800 feet , - and perhaps considerably lower .
I could neither trace their beginnings nor their ends , owing to the large amount of ash and debris with which they were coated .
" At no part of the country which we traversed on the south-west and west of Cotopaxi was the soil much fissured by earthquake cracks ; but the region on the south , and bearing round to the south-east , was cracked and fissured in the most extraordinary manner .
We had a good distant view of this from our first camp , and I much regretted that the constant demands on my time rendered it impossible for me to examine it more closely .
" The country which we traversed on the west of Cotopaxi , at a distance of 5 to 10 miles from the crater , was covered with very numerous rudely spherical masses of scoria , which had been ejected apparently by the volcano ; and the same were noticed near the Quito road , south-south-east of the crater , at even greater distances .
These masses measured 3 or 4 feet diameter downwards .
I could not find any person who had ever known a considerable fragment to be ejected , and the natives in general seemed inclined to ridicule the idea that they had been thrown out .
" ( E. W. ) The specimen taken from the summit ring of the crater of Cotopaxi is a compact rather heavy rock ( specific gravity=2'656 ) , of a dull warm-grey colour , faintly speckled or mottled with white spots .
It has a roughish subconchoidal fracture , and on the joint faces is a dull indian-red colour .
The specimen is in good condition .
The rock under the microscope is seen to contain a considerable number of crystals of a triclinic felspar scattered about in the ground-mass .
These commonly vary from about '02 to *05 in the longer diameters , but are occasionally both larger and smaller .
They exhibit more or less oscillatory twinning , and an occasional zonal structure .
The majority appear to be labradorite .
The outer angles 120 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On the [ June 19 , are generally fairly sharply defined , but a portion of the crystal often has a fractured outline .
There is much variation in the amount of enclosures ; in some of the crystals they are almost absent , in some they abound .
They are granules and microliths of pyroxene , scales of iron-glance , often apparently formed along lines of fracture , opacite , and brown glass .
The outer part of the crystals is generally free from enclosures ; the interior is sometimes full of them\#151 ; the latter case , however , is rare .
The slide also contains a considerable number of grains and crystals of augite and of hypersthene .
These seldom exceed about .01 in diameter , and are often less .
Some of the latter mineral are very well characterised by form , dicliroism , and extinction .
In one part of the slide is a cluster of several augite crystals , with some smaller of felspar , a little iron glance , and a grain or two which I suspect to be olivine ( it is colourless , while the other two minerals are tinted , and is more granular in texture , but , unfortunately , does not offer anything wherefrom to measure the extinction angle ) .
There are several granules of iron peroxide scattered throughout the slide .
The ground-mass consists of a colourless glassy base , densely crowded with microliths of felspar about *001 long , , probably for the most part oligoclase .
The rock accordingly is an hyperstheniferous augite-andesite .
The most interesting specimen from the vicinity of Mr. Whymper 's first camp is a compact sub vitreous rockr almost black in colour with a few light-coloured specks , having a slightly rough subconchoidal fracture ; in short , macroscopically , a very typical augite-andesite of the dark type which so often contains hypersthene .
The microscopic examination fully bears out the above inference .
Scattered about in the ground-mass are numerous crystals of plagio-clastic felspar similar to those described above , probably labradorite , seldom exceeding *03 inch in greatest length ; also numerous very well-characterised crystals of hypersthene and some of augite , with granules of magnetite .
The ground-mass consists of very minute elongated felspar microliths and pyroxenic granules , with much dusty opacite , crowded in a glassy base .
This rock also is a typical hyperstheniferous augite-andesite .
According to Mr. Whymper , comparatively little rock in situ was met with upon the route which he followed on his ascent of the cone of Cotopaxi , the surface being principally covered by debris and ash , and the above are the only two specimens which he collected .
But of the more fragmental materials he has brought back several examples .
Three specimens of a dark purple-grey slightly vesicular lava , speckled with small crystals of a glassy felspar , were collected at an elevation of about 12,000 feet .
They are rounded in form , and range in size , according to Mr. Whymper , from a diameter of about 4 feet 1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Mocks from Ecuador .
121 downwards .
Some of these lie in positions to which they could not have been brought by water , and they are doubtless volcanic bombs .
They are no doubt augite-andesites j the actual rock having a general likeness to that from the first camp , as well as to the highest rock on Chimborazo ( described below ) .
From an elevation of from 15,000 to 16,000 feet he has brought a number of pieces of a pumiceous scoria of rather glassy aspect .
The vesicles are of considerable size , and occupy more than half the volume of each fragment .
These specimens are of various shades of dull grey in colour , being rather lighter than the last-named rocks , and without the crystals of felspar .
The rock is most probably also an augite-andesite , but is evidently in a more glassy condition than the others , although we must allow something to the greater tenuity of the material .
In fixing the tent at his first camp ( about 15,100 feet ) Mr. .
Whymper ( as mentioned above ) dug through three layers of ash .
At the top was a miscellaneous accumulation of fragments , then came a stratum of fine ash , about 7 inches deep , followed by a stratum of slightly coarser material .
The upper of these two strata consists of pumiceous lapilli of a pale grey colour , often from an eighth to a quarter of an inch in diameter , evidently closely allied in lithological character to the lighter scoria , already described , from n6ar this tent .
There is with them a certain admixture of finer dust , which chiefly consists of pulverised glass , and has very probably to some extent been formed by attrition since the material was collected .
- Mineral fragments are occasionally distinguished .
On the examination of a small portion mounted on a slide , the mineral fragments appear more common .
Most of these are broken crystals , often with tolerably regular edges ( defined no doubt by cleavage planes ) , of a plagioclastic felspar , similar to that described in the rock slides ; to several of these minute portions of the scoriaceous rock are still adherent ; there are also one or two fragments of a dull green augite , and two ( in conjunction ) of a brownish-green mineral , which in form , extinction , and dichroism agree with the mineral described in these papers as hypersthene .
Probably one or two more fragments occur , but they are less characteristic ; the mineral is not common .
The lower material is much darker in colour , approaching nearer to the tint of the rock seen in situ .
There are occasional lapilli , ranging up to the size of a small pea , but the most abundant are granules almost the size of the heads of ordinary pins , or even a little smaller .
On closer examination this deposit is seen to consist of a dark scoria , not very vesicular , together with occasional fragments of the usual minerals .
These are less recognisable under the microscope than in the case last , described , as they appear to be rather smaller and more embedded in a scoria-i 122 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On the [ .Tune 19 , ceous crust .
The difference , however , is probably of but little importance .
Besides the above specimens , Mr. Whymper placed in my hands seven parcels of volcanic dust .
The first ( No. I ) represents the material strewn upon the roof of his tent , by the explosions which occurred , as described above , during the night which he spent upon the summit .
The second ( No. II ) was obtained under circumstances hardly less remarkable .
On July 3 Mr. Whymper made his second ascent of Chimborazo .
The morning was fine .
Cotopaxi , some 65 miles away , was clearly seen , and at first " was not smoking at all .
" At 5.40 a.m. an eruption suddenly commenced .
" A column of inky black smoke rose with immense rapidity 20,000 feet above the top of the crater , that is to say , to a height of about 40,000 feet above the sea ; was then caught by an easterly wind , borne at right angles to its former course , then was taken by a northerly wind and carried down upon us .
" But at 1.20 the dust had not yet reached the summit of Chimborazo , and did not begin to fall till shortly after the arrival of the party thereon ; but during their brief stay ( 1 hour 10 minutes ) it " fell to such an extent as to blacken the plateau all over , so that it lost all resemblance to suow , and looked like a ploughed field .
This ash was wonderfully fine , and penetrated everything , filled the working parts of instruments , rendered photography a failure , and almost prevented us from eating , as our mouths became filled with grit directly we opened them ... .
Extraordinary and ghastly effects in the sky .
" The wind was strong from the north-east , and bitterly cold .
The ash continued to fall during the whole of the descent , and during their absence had not only covered but also filled the tent ( pitched at a height of 15,950 feet ) .
No. Ill is a specimen of the dust of the same eruption , which fell at Ambato , between the two 'mountains , and about 45 miles from Cotopaxi .
No. IY ( from the same ) fell at Riobamba , due south of Cotopaxi and at about the same distance as Chimborazo .
No. Y is a specimen of volcanic dust collected at Quito ( 35 miles distant ) during a great eruption which occurred in the year 1879 , when the material fell in such quantities that there was pitch darkness for a time at midday .
No. YI , another specimen of the same from Chillo , rather more than 20 miles.from Cotopaxi , where the flood caused by the eruption did great damage .
No. YII is a sample of an ash collected by Mr. Whymper from hollows and sheltered places in the interior of the crater of Cotopaxi .
This he thinks the result of some more violent eruption than usual .
The following is a description of the microscopic structure of these volcanic dusts .
1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Ecuador .
123 No. I. ( Tent .
) A grey dust with rather darker specks .
The grains range from -02 inch in diameter downwards , a considerable proportion varying between this and about *01 inch .
They may be thus distinguished :\#151 ; ( A ) rock fragments , ( B ) mineral fragments .
( A ) These consist of ( a ) chips of colourless or nearly colourless glass , sometimes almost clear , sometimes clouded with ferrite or opacite , and containing microliths of felspar , \amp ; c.\#151 ; chips , in short , of glassy lavas , similar to those described above and elsewhere in this paper ; ( 6 ) rough opaque , or nearly opaque , grains , rather more numerous and larger in size , sometimes translucent at the edges , and including microliths of felspar and augite ; these , when viewed with a dark background , have a scoriaceous exterior , and are greyish , blackish , or reddish-brown in colour ; they are evidently minute lapilli of an andesitic lava .
( B ) Among these the following minerals may be recognised :\#151 ; ( a ) felspar , showing occasionallyplagioclastic twinning ; ( b ) more rare , augite and perhaps hypersthene .
I notice fragments both of glass and of minerals even among the finer dust , together with black specks , probably magnetite .
No. II .
( Chimborazo .
) Fine dust of a slightly paler and redder colour than the last .
The grains which make up this interesting deposit , as indicated by a glance at the slides with the unaided eye , are , as might be expected , decidedly smaller than those which characterise No. I , a very few only attain to a diameter of '01 inch , and this is barely exceeded .
Fragments measuring from " 003 to '004 inch are common , and they vary from this size to the finest dust ; the characteristic of the deposit , so far as I can ascertain , being the presence of grains ranging from about *001 to '003 inch .
They consist , as before , of rock fragments and mineral fragments .
Among the former ( A ) the rough dark lapilli are rare ; the majority being translucent and apparently smooth externally .
These are chips of glass , commonly of a. pale brownish colour , in which acicular microliths , probably of felspar , are frequent , with specks of ferrite , and possibly a granule or two of a pyroxenic mineral ; vacuoles are certainly rare .
( B ) The mineral fragments are felspar , as above , with a little augite , and there is one well-formed hypersthene crystal '01 inch long , in which are enclosures of iron peroxide , \amp ; c. , and , I think , minute cavities .
Fragments of felspar and acicular crystallites are rather abundant among the finer dust .
No. Ill ( the dust from Ambato ) does not materially differ from No. II , except that perhaps the size of the fragments is rather more variable .
Although there is a large quantity of very small chips there is a slightly greater proportion of fragments about *01 in diameter , and a considerable number of these are scoria , which is almost opaque .
In those that are transparent small vesicles , as might be anticipated , are slightly more numerous than in the other cases .
Prof. T. Gr .
Bonney .
On the [ June 19 , No. IV ( the dust from Riobamba ) does not appear to me to differ materially from No. II , except that perhaps it is very slightly coarser , 1 and the glass chips appear to be a little more vesicular , and so there is 1 a somewhat larger proportion of fragments of colourless or almost I colourless pumice .
No. V ( Quito).\#151 ; A slightly paler dust than No. II , with which its constituents correspond more nearly than with the first , but there are a few more of the opaque scoriaceous fragments described in the latter , 1 and the grains occasionally attain a diameter of '007 or -008 inch .
In : the brown glass chips , however , vacuoles , commonly spherical , some- I times elongated , are abundant ; many of them range from about '0001 to '0002 inch in diameter , but some are still smaller .
In No. VI ( Ghillo ) there are occasionally fragments about '01 inch 1 in diameter , but they appear to be less common than in the other ; !
slides , and chips not exceeding '002 inch diameter predominate .
These are glass and mineral fragments , as above ; lapilli appear to be very rare .
I think the glass is rather more vesicular than is the case in No. II , but in all these samples of dusts which have travelled for so considerable a distance from the volcano I do not consider the | differences more than varietal , and we have in them the debris of a microporphyritic hyperstheniferous augite-andesite .
No. VII.\#151 ; -A dust consisting of dark granules , mixed with light grey and reddish specks .
The materials are rather coarse , the 1 granules commonly ranging from about '01 to '015 inch .
The most j abundant are minute lapilli of scoriaceous aspect and dark colour , ; almost black ; in less numbers are glassy whitish and reddish granules : with these occur fragments of felspar , augite , and hyper- ; sthene .
Of the latter mineral there was a fairly perfect crystal about *015 long , which exhibited a very marked and characteristic dichroism and extinction .
The granular character and comparative coarseness of the dnst readily distinguishes it from the other examples , and brings it nearer to those described from the locality of the first tent .
I am indebted to the kindness of Professor Judd , not only for having a series of the above volcanic dusts excellently mounted for me in his laboratory , but also for the gift of two slides of the materials ejected from Krakatoa in the eruptions of last year .
Of these , one is a specimen of the pumice found floating in the Sunda Straits , a vesicular clear glass , like some viscid fluid " whipped " to a foam and then allowed to flow , which presents but little resemblance to the materials ejected from Cotopaxi .
Neither does the other specimen ( from the ash which fell at Batavia , after a journey of 95 miles ) present a marked resemblance , for although there is a general similarity in the presence of mineral fragments of the same species , yet the rock fragments differ in the predominance of glasses allied to that 1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Ecuador .
125 just mentioned ; the most common in the Batavia dust being a very light brown " fluted " or possibly porous glass , with occasional chips of the pumice itself .
In short , in the Krakatoa rock-materials , ttg]as8 foam " predominates , while in those of Cotopaxi we have a much larger proportion of either chips of ordinary glass or more solid scoria .
One would , therefore , assume , and this would be in accordance with the far greater violence of these eruptions of Krakatoa , that the molten materials in this volcano had become far more completely saturated with steam at a high pressure before the explosions occurred , which hurled them into the upper regions of the atmosphere .
Herr R. 0 .
M. Yerbeck , in a very interesting report on Krakatoa , printed in " Nature , " vol. xxx , p. 10 , states that the steam cloud from Krakatoa on May 20 , 1883 , must have reached a height of at least 11,000 metres ( about 36,000 feet ) , and during the more violent explosions of August 26 and 27 may very well have reached 15 to 20 kilometres ( 49,213 to 65,618 feet ) .
Cotopaxi , by its frequent " puffings , " exhales , as it were , the imprisoned vapours , and thus its ejectments are less uniformly vesicular .
It would be worth noticing whether the materials ejected from volcanoes which had erupted after long intervals of repose were more pumiceous than those discharged from vents where there is always more or less of disturbance .
7 Chimborazo .
" Chimborazo has for centuries been known to be a very lofty mountain .
Humboldt ( " Aspects of Nature , " vol. i , p. 96 ) says that for a long time into the present century it was " everywhere regarded as the highest mountain in the world , " and it still ranks as the most elevated in Ecuador .
From my mercurial barometer observations on the summit on January 4 , 1880 , and July 3 , 1880 , its height appeared to be 20,545 and 20,489 feet respectively .
The height I adopt , namely , 20,517 feet , is the mean of these observations .
According to Humboldt ( " Aspects of Nature , " vol. i , p. 57 ) , its height is 21,423 feet .
" The summit of Chimborazo bears north-east from Guayaquil , distant about 91 miles .
The valley of the River Chimbo forms the boundary of the mountain , properly speaking , on the western side .
This river at the bridge of Guaranda is 8,530 feet above the sea .
On the north , the depression ( used as a pass ) between the mountains Carihuairazo and Chimborazo is the northern boundary of the latter .
This is 14,400 feet above the sea .
On the south it is bounded by the great sandy plain called the Arenal Grande , the highest point of which is about 14,000 feet above the sea , and is traversed by the track to Quito .
This plain is covered with debris from Chimborazo , which in various places has been re-assorted , and now forms stratified deposits .
On the east it is scarcely possible to say where the mountain 126 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On TJune 19 , terminates .
Its lower slopes extend a long distance into the basin of Riobamba , and die out only a few miles to the west of the town of that name .
" [ From the Arenal Mr. Whymper has sent to me four small parcels of the " sandy " material .
The first is a number of fragments of lava slightly scoriaceous , varying in colour from a pale to a warm grey and speckled with black crystals ( probably augite ) , the largest being about 1 \#163 ; inch in diameter .
Small crystals of felspar appear to be rather abundant , and fragments of this and other minerals are rather frequent in the dust which is mixed up with the coarser parts .
Another parcel consists chiefly of rather small lapilli , some being of a pale reddish-brown colour .
A third consists of lapilli of the above tint , varying in size from rather larger than a hemp seed to a little less than a mustard seed ; and the fourth , like the first , consists of larger fragments mingled with a considerable amount of fine dust , the whole being a little paler in colour than the first specimen .
I have not thought it necessary to subject these to a minute examination , as I have no doubt that they have a general agreement in their composition with the rocks of the mountain , and are simply volcanic dust and lapilli , which have been ejected from Chimborazo in the days when it was an active volcano , and are now a good deal decomposed by the action of percolating water.\#151 ; T. G. B. ] " In plan , Chimborazo is elliptical , and its longer diameter extends approximately from north-east to south-west .
In this direction , at the level of 14,000 feet , the mountain extends over about 14| English miles .
When viewed from certain directions Chimborazo is seen to be crowned by two rounded snow-covered points .
From true east or west these points conceal each other , and the general appearance of the mountain when viewed at considerable distances from all points of the compass , is that of a cone , the minor details being indistinguishable .
" On a close approach , the subordinate features destroy the conelike effect of Chimborazo .
From the south , the two summits are well seen , but as the traveller bound for Quito passes round the eastern side the mountain gradually takes the appearance of a range .
From the north-west or north-north-west , at a distance of three or four miles from the mountain , the lofty and almost vertical cliffs which are found on that direction assume great importance , and nearly conceal the snowy domes which crown the true summit .
" The ridges which radiate from the upper part of Chimborazo are too numerous to be specified .
Those not covered by snow or glacier are mostly , if not entirely , old flows of lava , which have been greatly eroded , and are much decomposed .
In numerous places they are almost completely buried in their own ruin .
The general appearance of the ridges which are enveloped by snow or glacier renders it probable that they too are fundamentally old lava streams .
1884 1 Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Ecuador .
127 \#171 ; The whole of the upper part of Chimborazo is crowned by snow-covered glacier , forming a glacier plateau , from which numerous glaciers take their rise .
In passing around the mountain I remarked twelve glaciers , all of considerable size , flowing from this plateau .
The glaciers have their greatest development upon the eastern and north-eastern sides of the mountain .
There is one to the south-south-west of the second summit , that is wholly formed by the re-consolidation of glacier ice , which falls over the great cliffs at its head .
This glacier we called Glacier de Debris .
The clean sections which are exposed in the upper glacier by its breaking away and falling over the above-mentioned cliffs show that the ice sheet on the summit is more than 200 feet in thickness .
" I found roches montonnees upon Chimborazo , in a valley ( or ) leading in a south-westerly direction from the second summit .
In this valley there is not at the present time any glacier , and this is the only place in the whole of the Andes of the Equator where I have observed roches montonnees at any considerable distance from existing glaciers .
Retrograding and advancing glaciers may , however , be remarked in various places .
On the north-eastern side of Chimborazo some very large moraines which are in the vicinity of the existing glaciers , indicate they were of much greater magnitude in some previous period .
It may be that many more traces of glacier action would be apparent if the rocks of this region disintegrated less easily .
" The average level to which the glaciers descend on Chimborazo may , I think , be stated at 15,600 feet .
The snow line is approximately 1,000 feet higher .
" The whole of the apex of Chimborazo is enveloped by snow-covered glacier , and upon the immediate summit there is a considerable ( and slightly concave ) plateau , on the rim of which the two crowning snow-domes are situated .
The more northern of these two is slightly the loftier , and there can be little doubt that they cover the highest points of the rim of the crater of the old volcano , and that the hollow plateau lying between them is the filled-up crater itself .
" The highest rock which we noticed upon either of our ascents was about 1,000 feet below the summit , a scoriaceous lava , which appeared in small patches , and was apparently in consolidated beds .
The highest rock in situ beneath this which we were able to collect was at the height of 18,400 feet , from the lower beds of the great cliffs facing the south , which support the second summit .
It is a trachyte of a coarse red colour , and is one of the most common rocks on Chimborazo .
Above it , disposed in parallel bands , were a large variety of strata of various natures , and of widely different colouring ; and upon the rare occasions that these cliffs were lighted by the sun they presented an appearance as attractive as the well-known slopes 128 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On the [ June 19 , ' !
of Alum Bay .
It was impossible to collect these in , the cliffs 1 being well-nigh perpendicular ; but specimens from all the strata 4 were broken off by the ice falling from the glaciers above , and fell I along with the ice on to the Glacier de Debris below .
From the surface of this glacier I collected numerous specimens , and they embrace most of the varieties of rock to be found on the mountain , m Amongst this debris was found a small fragment of native sulphur .
" There is a prominent and important ridge leading from the second 1 summit in a south-south-westerly direction .
Our second and third | camps ( 16,600 and 17,300 feet respectively ) at which we passed ; i sixteen days and nights , were established on this ridge , which starts is from the foot of the above-mentioned cliffs and extends right down to i the arenal grande .
The specimens collected in situ from the rocks at I the second and third camps are nearly identical in nature .
" Our fourth camp ( 14,400 feet ) was established on the southern j side of a very prominent lava stream that starts high up on the mountain on its northern side , which at its commencement descends a little to the east of north , and in its lower course bends round towards the west ; and our fifth camp ( 15,950 feet ) was placed about two , miles to the south-west of the last named , against some large blocks of lava .
" On the southern side of the mountain there are numerous masses f of scoria lying about , in the same manner as is seen around the active volcano Cotopaxi , which may either have been ejected from Chimborazo when it was in a state of activity , or have fallen from its decom- j posing beds .
The whole of the western side of the mountain ( which has , I believe , scarcely been visited by earlier travellers ) was found : between about 13,000 and 15,000 feet to be covered by vast sandy j plains .
" It was observed during our sojourns upon and in the neighbourhood of Chimborazo in the months of December , 1879 , and January , j June , July , 1880 , that easterly and north-easterly winds were of most j frequent occurrence .
These winds usually brought bad weather , and = much snow fell while they lasted .
To this preponderance of easterly j and north-easterly winds I attribute the great development of glacier j which is found upon those sides of the mountain , and the occurrence of the vast sandy plains which exist on the western or lee side .
The sand is drifted entirely away from the eastern slopes , which , at the \lt ; corresponding elevation of 13,000 to 15,000 feet , are rugged , fissured , and often troublesome to traverse .
The western side , at these elevations , is free from difficulty .
All fissures and minor inequalities are completely effaced , and in the month of July , without any guide except the barometer and compass , we made the circuit of the mountain at about the level of 14,000 feet , and struck with certainty the exact spot upon the arenal grande at which we desired to arrive .
1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Ecuador .
129 \#171 ; Chimborazo appears to have been an extinct volcano for a long period .
The great size of its glaciers and complete effacement of its crater ; the extent to which its rocks are decomposed and its ridges shattered ; and the occurrence of lichens upon almost the highest rocks which were collected , are all indications that it is long since it was in a state of activity .
" ( E. W. ) Mr. Whymper brought back a large suite of specimens from Chimborazo ; from these I have selected eight for microscopic examination , the others appearing to me to be either duplicates or decomposed specimens of the same or nearly identical rocks .
From the locality of the second camp I have examined two .
The first was collected from debris which had fallen from a cliff immediately above .
Hence though a loose specimen , it represents rock in situ at the locality ; the rock is a black subvitreous lava with a few light coloured specks , presenting a very close resemblance to that described above from the flank of Cotopaxi ; one face of the specimen is scoriaceous .
The microscopic character does not materially differ .
There are abundant crystals of similar felspar ( elongated forms being perhaps commoner ) with similar enclosures , also crystals of augite and hypersthene .
One or two grains , however , appear to me to be olivine .
There is a base of brownish glass , pretty full of microliths ( chiefly of felspar ) , with specks of ferrite and opacite , and perhaps a little pyroxene .
The other specimen is of a type which , as will be seen below , is common on Chimborazo , and presents resemblances to rock already described , especially that from Pamascucho below Nina-urcu on Pichincha ( " Proceedings , " No. 299 , p. 225 ) .
This rock is a dullish lavender-grey colour , with crystals of glassy felspars up to about *1 inch long , and some minute blackish specks , which weather rather a redder colour .
Under the microscope the differences from the other are not so great as perhaps might have been expected , the chief one being that the base is a nearly colourless glass .
I think it very probable that a little sanidine is present among the felspars .
The rock then is only a variety of the hyperstheniferous augite-andesites .
The specimen taken near the third camp of Chimborazo , 17,300 feet , and representing , as described above , the rock which prevails throughout the ridge by which the first ascent was made , from some distance higher than the locality first mentioned , down to the second camp , and even below , is a rock macroscopically related to the one last described , but is a little redder in colour , more vesicular in structure , and with slightly larger crystals of felspar ( up to about ^th inch diameter ) .
So far as the base and its included microliths are concerned , there is little to add to the preceding description , except that a dusty ferrite is rather abundant , as the colour of the rock would lead us to expect , ,the larger ciystals of felspar do not materially differ from those already described , hypersthene is abundant , undoubted augite VOL. XXXVII .
K 130 Prof. T. .
G. Bonney .
On [ June 19 , being rare , and there are two or three small crystals of a strongly dichroic hornblende .
Also one or two crystals of what appears to be an iron mica .
The predominance of hypersthene entitles this to the name of a hypersthene-andesite .
From the fifth camp four specimens have been brought .
Of these four are closely related , and are rocks presenting a general similarity to the second specimen of the second camp , and to that from Pamas-cucho in the Pichincha massif as well as one from Guagra-ialina , Antisana , being compact greyish lavas , with small crystals of white felspar .
I have examined one microscopically , and find that it then presents some differences .
The felspar crystals , indeed , are similar to those already described , except that perhaps they are a little more crowded with microlithic enclosures , but there are no well-defined crystals of augite , hornblende , or hypersthene .
Instead of these are rather numerous elongated or rounded bodies , one of the former attaining '1 inch in length , consisting of an external zone of dusty opacite , containing a less quantity of the same mineral associated with small crystals or specks of a pyroxenic mineral .
I have occasionally seen these bodies ( for one cannot give them a definite name ) , and I presume that they are analogous to the cases of replacement of augite by magnetite , which are not uncommon , and are rude pseudomorphs of a mineral of the pyroxenic group , or in some cases possibly of mica.* There are as usual scattered grains of magnetite , and the ground-mass is a glassy base , crowded with lath-like felspar microliths and granules of magnetite .
The rock then is an andesite , but of a slightly exceptional character .
The second specimen , Mr. Whymper states , differs from any other rocks which he saw upon the mountain .
It is a rather crumbly rock of very irregular fracture , having a very dark grey ground-mass , in which crystals of glassy-white felspar , up to about *2 inch long , are embedded .
When examined microscopically it does not appear to differ very materially from some of those already described , and is very closely related to that forming the ridge of the mountain , different only in the colour of the ground-mass , and , like it , being best named a hypersthene-andesite .
Mr. Whymper brought a large series of rocks collected at an elevation of about 18,400 feet to represent the materials of the cliff on the southern face of the mountain beneath the second summit .
They are for the most part andesite lavas , more or less decomposed , varying considerably in tint and in compactness , but evidently closely allied lithologically .
Several were not in a condition favourable for examina- * Specimens in my collection from Auvergne , e.g. , from a quarry about three miles above Murat on the high road , from the cliffs of the Puy Cacadogne and the G-rande Cascade ( Mont Dore ) exhibit similar bodies .
In some cases the bordered or replaced mineral is hornblende .
1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of s Rocks from Ecuador 131 tion , and as I feel convinced of their close relationship , I have only made a microscopic examination of two of the best preserved specimens .
These are somewhat intermediate between the two specimens mentioned above from Pichincha andAntisana ; being compact greyish lavas , with scattered crystals of white felspar .
The redder specimen\#151 ; which most resembles the above rocks , does not , after what has been said , need a detailed description ; it is a hypersthene-andesite with a little hornblende .
The duller-coloured specimen is an augite-andesite with some hypersthene .
The base of each is a clear glass , containing many very minute microliths , probably of felspar , and irregularly clouded with a grey dust and opacite .
Only one specimen remains to be described , the highest rock obtained by Mr. Whymper on Chimborazo , at an elevation of about 19,300 feet .
It is a slightly scoriaceous lava , rough to the touch , almost purple-black in colour , with numerous very minute specks of a glassy felspar .
Except that the base is rendered rather more opaque by disseminated opacite , it does not differ very materially from several already described .
There are the usual crystals of felspar , one or two being much rounded and very full of dull glassy enclosures ; there is a fair amount of augite , but no well-characterised hypersthene ; so that the rock may be named an augite-andesite .
Thus the rocks of Chimborazo appear to be andesites , and rather closely related ; the only variation of any importance being in the amount of hypersthene and the occasional presence of hornblende .
VII .
" Notes on the Structure of some Rocks from the Andes of Ecuador , collected by E. Whymper .
No. IV .
Carihuairazo , Cayambe , and Corazon .
" By Professor T. Gr .
BONNEY , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1884 .
Read June 19 , 1884 .
I have been favoured by Mr. Whymper with some short notes on the structure and physical features of the three volcanic mountains whose rocks are investigated on this occasion , and have prefixed them to my lithological descriptions .
It is remarkable what a general uniformity there is in the products of these summits of the Equatorial Andes , and this , as Mr. Whymper informs me , was so obvious that he made but small collections from the mountains which were visited during the latter part of his journey .
Carihuairazo .
" This forms the northern part of the massif of Chimborazo .
It is separated on its south side from its great neighbour by the depression

