" On the Disruptive Discharge of accumulated Electricity , and the Proximate Cause of Lightning .
" By Isham Baggs , Esq. Communicate 'd by S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S. The author proposes to inquire into the principal causes of the violent and disruptive union of opposite electricities which constitutes the electric discharge ; and to apply the knowledge thus gaine 'd to the explanation of natural phenomena , and the further proof of the identity of frictional and voltaic electricities .
He describes two instruments which he employed for the purpose of regulating the discharges of a Leyden jar , or battery , by adjusting with precision the distances between two brass balls , forming a communication between the inner and outer coatings ; allowing of their being charged only to a limited degree of intensity , by carrying off all the electricity beyond that extent ; and thus guarding the glass from the dangers of fracture from an excess of charge .
He is led to the conclusion , that with a given dialectric , such as glass , the limit to the intensity of the charge it can receive varies directly as the cube of its thickness , being in the compound ratio of the resistance it presents to the discharge , which is simply as the thickness , and of the square of the distance of the two charged surfaces , such being the law of electric action .
When a number of insulated Leyden jars , arranged in a consecutive series by connecting the outer coating of each with the inner coating of the next , is charged by means of an electrical machine , the tension of the charge diminishes in each jar as they follow in the series , that of the terminal jar being exceedingly small .
On the other hand , when each jar has been charged separately in the same manner and to an equal extent , and then quickly arranged in a series , the jars not touching one another , but the knobs connected with the inner coating of each jar , after the first , being placed at a certain distance from the outer coating of the preceding jar , which in such an arrangement is charged with an electricity of an opposite kind to that of the knob adjacent to it , the author found that the tension of the electricities was greatly augmented , giving rise to violent explosions whenever a discharge occurred .
He considers a battery thus constituted as bearing the same relation to a single Leyden jar as the voltaic pile does to a single galvanic circle ; and as affording in like manner the means of exalting , to any assignable degree , the electric tension .
Adopting the views of Mr. Cross as to the constitution of a thunder-cloud , namely , that it is formed of a number of concentric zones of electricity , alternately positive and negative , the central one having the highest intensity , and the tension diminishing in the successive zones surrounding the innermost , till it became inappreciable in the one most remote ; the author considers this condition of the cloud to be analogous to that of the battery above described , and the phenomena of the former to receive complete illustration from the experimental results obtained with the latter .

