Some further Observations on a new detonating Substance .
In a Letter from Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read July 1 , 1813 , [ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 242 .
] In a second letter which the author received from France , he is informed that the detonating oil was there originally procured by passing a mixture of chlorine and azote through aqueous solutions of sulphate or muriate of ammonia ; but from the-method of obtaining it in this country , it is evident that the azote is unnecessary , as it is obtained by exposure of any ammoniacal salt in solution to mere chlorine .
The oily fluid obtained by these means has the specific gravity of 1 653 .
It is not congealed by cold , as the author had formerly supposed , but remains fluid even when cooled by a mixture .
of ice and muriate of lime .
When kept in water , it gradually disappears , and the water becomes acid , having the taste and smell of weak nitro-muriatic acid .
Concentrated muriatic acid decomposes it , disengaging chlorine , and forming muriate of ammonia .
In concentrated nitric acid it gives out azote .
In dilute sulphuric acid it yields a mixture of azote and oxygen .
In a strong solution of ammonia it detonates ; with a weak solution it yields azote .
With the muriates of sulphur and of phosphorus , or with sulphu , ret of carbon , it combines without any violence .
When it is kept in contact with mercury alone , it yields azote and a white powder , consisting of a mixture of calomel and corrosive sublimate .
One means of estimating the proportion of the elements was obtained from this mode of analysis , and it appeared to be 19 azote to 81 chlorine .
In such attempts as were made to decompose this substance in exhausted vessels , the tendency to explosion was such , that no estimate could be formed of its elements , from the small quantities on which it was safe to operate .
The mode of analysis on which the author places the most reliance , is that performed by means of muriatic acid .
According to his view of the play of affinities in this process , ammonia is formed by the union of the azote in the compound with the hydrogen of one part of the muriatic acid , occasioning the chlorine of both to be set free ; while the ammonia so formed combines with another portion of the muriatic acid , and is found in the solution as muriate of ammonia .
In addition to the quantity of chlorine actually evolved in this mode of trial , it was necessary to estimate the quantity remaining dissolved in the liquid .
For this purpose the sulphuric solution of indigo was employed , and the quantity of chlorine estimated by the quantity of blue colour destroyed .
From the results of two experiments , the author infers that nine grains of azote are combined with 91 of chlorine ; and since this proportion accords very nearly with the supposition of one volume of azote with four equal volumes of chlorine , he regards the present as a satisfactory instance of the law of definite proportions ; for the estimate obtained by the action of mercury upon the oil , differs no more than might be expected from the nature of the experiment .
Since one of azote combines with three of hydrogen to form ammonia , and three of hydrogen combine with three of chlorine in muriatic acid , the author had thought it probable that one of azote would have been found combined with three of chlorine , but is now of opinion that no strict laws of analogy are to be found from which we can form a previous judgement of such combinations ; and he takes occasion to remark , that other philosophers who have presumed that azote contains oxygen , are not warranted in their inference by any laws that he has observed .

