233 IV .
" On Chondrosteus , an Extinct Genus of Fish allied to the Sturionidae .
" By Sir PHILIP DE MALPAS GREY EGERTON , Bart. , F.R.S. Received April 20 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) Before the conclusion of his great work on Fossil Fishes , Professor Agassiz recognized in some fragmentary remains found in the lias strata at Lyme Regis , unmistakeable evidence of the existence , at that period of the earth 's deposition , of a representative of the still extant family of the Sturgeons .
To this extinct fish he assigned the name Chondrosteus .
The author of the present memoir has been enabled , by the examination of numerous specimens more recently acquired , to describe in some detail the external features of the fish , and the structural peculiarities of those portions of the exoand endo-skeleton which have been preserved .
In the former respect the fossil differs from the recent sturgeon in having a shorter and deeper trunk , in the greater vertical expanse and wider divergence of the lobes of the caudal fin , in the median position of the dorsal fin , and in the absence of dermal plates on the back , belly , and flanks .
Before describing the cranial anatomy , the author points out certain homologies between the head-plates of the recent sturgeon and the epicranial bones of the teleostean fishes , more especially with reference to the parietals , mastoids and frontals ; and explains that these conclusions have resulted from the examination of the inner table of skull , where the relative position and proportions of the component plates are constant , however much the outer or dermal layer may vary .
The remainder of the memoir is devoted to detailed descriptions of such parts as are preserved in the several specimens ; and the author concludes by stating as the result of his investigations , that Professor Agassiz was right in referring the liasic fish to the Sturionidee ; that in some respects it evidenced a transitional form between the latter family and the more typical ganoids ; that its food was similar to that of the existing members of the family , but that it was procured in a tranquil sea , rather than in the tumultuous waters frequented by sturgeons of the present time .

