Note on the Tides in the Port of London .
By J. W. LUBBOCK , Esq. V. P. and Treas .
R.S. Read June 25 , 1832 .
MAR .
STRATFORD has favoured me with a comparison of the predicte(l times of high water deduced from Mr. BULPIT'S Tables , WHITE'S Ephemeris , and the British Almanac , with the observations at the London Docks .
'These observations are , unfortunately , so imperfect , that the differences must not be entirely attributed to the errors of the Tables , which , however , seem susceptible of much improvement .
I subjoin this comparison ; and in order to convey an idea of the confidence which may be placed in the observations , I also subjoin a comparison , by Mr. DEACON , of the observations at the London and St. Katherine 's Docks , which are made according to the same plan , and of which the merit is the same .
The differences in the determinations at these two places , which are only about a quarter of a mile distant from each other , may serve to indicate the reliance which can be placed in either .
In my paper on the Tides at Breast , I remarked that the retard or the constant x , is considerably greater as deduced from observation here than at Breast .
That this must be the case is also evident from the following very simple a priori considerations.-The highest high water takes place when the moon passes the meridian at a time equal to the retard .
The tide is propagated from Breast to London , round Scotland , in about twenty-two hours , that is , supposing the tide which takes place in our river to be principally due to that branch of the tide which descends along the eastern coast of Great Britain , which I believe to be the case .
The highest tide therefore is propagated from Breast to London in about twenty-two hours , and the difference in the retard or in the constant X -- , will be nearly the moon 's motion in twentytwo hours , or about 11 ?
; I made the difference in the retard from observation 10 ? .
The tide takes about fifteen hours to reach Breast from the Cape of Good Hope ; no doubt the retard there is considerably less .
This Table contains the results of a comparison of the predicted times of high water at the London Docks , with observations of the same , made morning and afternoon , in the months of January , February , and March , 1832 .
The predicted times have been deduced from BULPIT 's Tide Tables , WHITE'S Ephemeris , and the British Almanac .
BULPIT'S Tables contain the mean time of high water at the entrance gate of the East India Docks .
The time of high water at the London Docks has been found by adding twenty minutes to the time given by BULPIT .
WHITE'S Ephemeris and the British Almanac give the time of high water at London Bridge : these times have been decreased by ten minutes , to obtain the time for the London Docks .
M denotes the morning t1 A -afternoon tB denotes the time of high water at the London Docks , as deduced from BULPIT'S Tables .
G do .
from WHITE 's Ephemeris .
L do .
from British Almanac .
0 do .
as observed .
Wherever blanks occur , it is to be understood that there has not been any tide observed or predicted , -as on the afternoon of Jan. 15 ; or that the objects of comparison fail , as on the afternoon of Feb. 13 , and morning of the 14th , where BULPIT would indicate a tide at 11h 52m , which did not in fact occur , and give no tide for the morning of the 14th to compare with an observation on that day .
W. S. S. June 8 , 1832 .

