VI .
An Account of two Observations upon the Cataract of the Eye ; contained in a Letter from Signor Antonio Benevoli , Master-Surgeon in the Hospital of S. Maria Nuova in Florence , to Dr. Valsalva ; Printed in Italian at Florence , this present Year , and communicated to the Royal Society , at the Desire of the Author , by Sir Thomas Dereham , F. R. S. IN this Letter the learned Author informs Signor Valsalva , that , on the 13th of July in the Year 1720 .
he had couched a German Soldier of Cataracts in both his Eyes , who immediately after the Operation recovered the Sight of both Eyes , and continued to see till his Death , which happened of an Acute Illness on the 6th of April in this present Year .
Upon this , Signor Benevoli took the Eyes out of their Orbits , in order to examine whether the Cataracts , which this Soldier had been couched of , consisted of a membranous Pellicle , as some Writers maintain ; or , as others pretend , of a preternatural Opacity in the Crystalline Humour .
Proceeding immediately to the Dissection of the left Eye , upon a careful and very exact Examination of all the Contents of it , he could not find any such thing as a Pellicle within it , but discovered a small yellowish Body at the bottom of the Bulb of the Eye , of a lenticular Shape , without Adhesion to any of the other Parts of the Eye , which , upon taking it out , appeared to be the Crystalline Humour grown opake , and something less than its natural Size , having two or three small Dents , or Impressions , made in its Circumference , which it had received from the Needle during the Operation of couching .
The next Day he examined the right Eye in the same manner , in the Presence of several eminent Physicians and Surgeons , and other curious Persons , whom he had invited to the Demonstration , and found in it the Crystalline grown opake and depressed in the same manner as the former , to the bottom of the Eye , still carrying the Marks of the Needle evidently upon it , but found no Pellicle within the Eye , notwithstanding the most diligent Search he could make for it .
Signor Benevoli farther relates , that having formerly made some Experiments upon the Eyes of dead Subjects , at Bologna , in company with Dr. Valsalva , he had introduced the Needle into the Eye in the same Place , and in the same Manner , as is commonly practised in the Operation of couching , and having afterwards dissected the same Eyes , he had always found , that the Needle had passed into the Eye on the backside of the Crystalline Humour , so that it had been impossible to bring the Needle forward from thence into that Part of the aqueous Humour , which is seated between the Uvea and the Crystalline Humour , in order to depress a Pellicle seated there , according to the common Opinion , unless he would have passed his Needle thro ' the Body of the Crystalline .
This curious Author likewise observes , that the aforesaid Space , between the Uvea and the Crystalline Humour , is so very narrow , that tho ' he finds it not impossible to introduce a Needle into that Space , yet there is by no means room enough to turn the Needle up and down in all Directions , with that Freedom , that is used in couching Cataracts , without wounding either the Uvea , or the Crystalline .
Lastly , Signor Benevoli observes , that in his Practice of couching Cataracts for many Years , having generally couched about twelve or fourteen in a Year , he had always found , that he worked upon a hard and resisting Substance , which being tenderly touched by the Needle , would vibrate and fluctuate backwards and forwards , and would sometimes return against the Needle with a sensible Impetus , which by no means agrees with the common Notion of the Cataract 's consisting in a Pellicle or membranous Substance .
FINI S. LONDO N : Printed for W. and J. Innys , Printers to the Royal Society , at the Prince 's Arms the West End of St. Paul 's Churchyard .

