PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
November 19 , 1874 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
General Boileau , Mr. De La Hue , Capt. Evans , Dr. Gladstone , and the Bight Hon. Lyon Playfair , having been nominated .by the President , were elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society .
The decease of Mrs. Hooker having been mentioned from the Chair , Sir James Alderson proposed , and General Boileau seconded , the following Besolution , which was unanimously agreed to " That the Boyal Society desire to condole with their President for his loss , and to express to him their deep sympathy in his great affliction .
" Dr. Henry Wyldbore Bumsey was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Note to the c Beport on the Exploration of Brixham Cave , ( Phil. Trans. 1878 ) .
" By G. Busk , F.B.S. , V.P.L.S. Be-ceived June 22 , 1874 .
With reference to Prof. Owen 's correction of the erroneous English equivalent for Lagomys spelceus ( which occurs , not in the Beport on the Animal Bemains , but in the " General Conclusions respecting the Brixham Cave , " accompanied , however , with the proper scientific name ) , I have merely to remark that it is of course a very obvious erratum .
It is one , 2 Rev. S. H aught on on the Tides of the Arctic Seas .
[ Nov. 19 , however , which from the context can lead to no mistake , and is consequently of no importance .
Though the proof of that part of the " Report " j passed under my eyes , the error entirely escaped my attention .
With regard , however , to Professor Owen 's remark that throughout the " Report " the discovery of Lagomys in Brixham Cave is treated as I an original discovery , I have simply to observe that the Report consists of ] one hundred pages , in which about five lines , at most , relate to Lagomys \ spelceus , in two of which the reporter observes , with perfect truth , that " it j has been met with elsewhere in association with Pleistocene mammals .
" !
The statement of this well-known fact is hardly , in the usual sense of words , a claim to " original discovery .
" II .
" On the Tides of the Arctic Seas.\#151 ; Part IV .
The Tides of Northumberland Sound at the Northern Outlet of Wellington Channel.\#151 ; Part V. The Tides of Refuge Cove in Wellington Channel .
" By the Rev. Samuel Haughton , M.D. Dublin , D.C.L. Oxon .
Received July 11 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) These tidal observations were made by Sir Edward Belcher , R.N. , i K.C.B. , on board of H.M.S. ' Assistance , ' in the summer of 1853 .
They are interesting , from the fact that they were made in the highest latitudes in which tidal observations have been ever recorded .
Prom a discussion of the heights and times of high and low water the following partial results have been obtained , which , it is hoped , will be further extended and corrected , by taking into account the height of the water at other phases of the tides .
NOBTHUMBERL AND SOUND .
X. Diurnal Tide .
1 .
True Solitidal Interval , i"= 7h49m .
2 .
True Solar Coefficient , corrected for declination , S=4*7 inches .
II .
Semidiurnal Tide .
1 .
Mean Lunitidal Interval ( observed ) , H. W. L.W. + 0h 7m,05 6h 35m,35 .
2 .
Difference between true Lunitidal and true Solitidal Intervals , im \#151 ; i\#187 ; = 38m .
Refuge Cove .
I. Diurnal Tide .
True Lunitidal Interval , im=20h 48m .

