V. ( Experimental Researches on the Functions of the Mucous Membrane of the Gall-bladder , principally with reference to the Conversion of Hepatic into Cystic Bile .
" By GEORGE KEMP , M.D. Cantab .
Communicated by the Rev. W. CLARK , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Anatomy in the University of Cambridge .
Received May 1 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) Referring to the well-known difference in taste and other physical properties between the bile as it immediately proceeds from the liver and the same fluid after it has been retained for a time in the gallbladder , the author observes , that the nature of this difference and the agency by which it is effected , are questions which have not yet met with the attention they deserve , and that he had accordingly been led to make them the subject of experimental inquiry .
As , however , it is only on rare occasions that the hepatic bile can be procured in quantity sufficient for chemical experiment , and then only at the risk of its being altered by pathological conditions of the secreting organ , the author considers that , however clearly individual facts on the subject may be demonstrated , any deductions made therefrom must be referred to the lower department of probable evidence ; and it is with this reservation that he lays his conclusions before the Royal Society , whilst , at the same time , he believes that , so far as the nature of the case admits , he has been able to elicit a new fact respecting the mucous membrane of the gallbladder , which may lead to the better comprehension of the functions of mucous membranes generally .
Assuming , in the first place , that the change in properties which the bile undergoes in the gall-bladder is brought about either by the mucous secretion of that reservoir , or by some operation exerted by its internal membrane , it is observed , with respect to the action of the mucus , 1st , that when left in the gall-bladder in contact with the cystic bile , it is capable of subverting the composition of that fluid .
2nd , That this change is much accelerated by even a moderately elevated temperature .
3rd , That when the contents of the gall-bladder are evaporated to a syrupy consistence , the bile , at first neutral , becomes alkaline and broken up into several organic groups .
4th , That if the mucus of the gall-bladder be carefully removed by alcohol or acetic acid , and the perfectly fresh bile be then evaporated , these changes do not take place .
From these facts it follows that the mucus of the gall-bladder is a highly catalytic body , and that the analysis of bile which has been left in contact with it , under the conditions above stated , must lead to varying and unsatisfactory results .
From these considerations it naturally occurred to try the effect of placing the mucus of the gall-bladder in contact with hepatic bile ; but the experiment was not performed , as it was found impracticable to obtain the mucus of the gall-bladder free from cystic bile without precipitation by reagents .
Desiring , however , to ascertain whether the mucus is principally retained in contact with the inner surface of the gall-bladder or diffused through its contents , the author subjected the gall-bladder and its contained fluid , taken from an ox just slaughtered , to a freezing mixture of snow and salt , until all but the central part of the fluid was frozen , and on pouring out the latter found it to contain mucus ; thus showing that this secretion is not merely confined to the inner surface of the gall-bladder for the purpose of protection and lubrication of the subjacent membrane , but is diffused throughout the bile contained in that reservoir .
Leaving now the mucous secretion , the object was first to ascertain whether the mucous membrane itself possesses the property of changing the molecular structure of the bile ; then to observe whether it possesses any analogy to other mucous membranes , such as the epithelial membrane of the calf 's stomach , &amp;c. , in acting upon animal fluids and solutions of bodies which readily break up into binary forms ; to examine , in the next place , its action upon albumen , the white of an egg being the substance selected ; and , finally , to determine its effects on the biliary secretion , as produced in the liver before its admission into the gall-bladder .
Action of the Mucous lIembrane of the Gall-bladder upon Bile .
December 11 , 1855.-The mucous membrane of the gall-bladder was dissected , or rather stripped from the other portion of the viscus , and washed in several waters , until the mucous secretion and bile disappeared ; a small portion was now placed in an evaporating dish and covered with fresh ox-bile , from which the mucus had been carefully removed ; the bile also was tested with diluted acetic acid , giving no precipitate or appearance of turbidity .
The whole was , at 1 P.M. , placed in a warm situation .
At 3 P.M. the solution was tested with acetic acid , when it became densely turbid .
Temperature , 430 ? ?
5 C. The peculiar odour of musk was very distinct in this solution , though not perceptible in the remainder of the fresh bile .
A small quantity of water was added , to replace that lost by evaporation , and the solution returned to its warm situation .
6 P.M. again tested , with similar results ; the musky odour very strong .
7 30 P.M. again tested , when not only was the solution rendered turbid , but a white precipitate was thrown down ; the fluid was also distinctly alkaline .
The mucous lining of the gall-bladder is therefore a catalytic body capable of producing molecular changes in the bile .
Action of the Mucous M.embrane of the Gall-bladder upon certain Bodies which readily break up into Organic Groups .
Milk .
December 18.-A portion of mucous membrane was scraped and washed with scrupulous care , in order that the whole of the mucus might be removed ; it was then covered with fresh milk and exposed to a temperature of 32 ?
C. In one hour the fluid was separated into serum , turbid with caseine , and an over-stratum of a creamy substance greatly resembling butter , thus exhibiting a catalytic influence very analogous to the action of rennet .
The whole contents of the evaporating dish were then set aside , as having effected the object of the experiment ; on the 21st , however , the author was induced to taste the fluid , and , to his astonishment , found it intensely bitter , and , what is more remarkable , on applying Pettenkofer 's well-known test of sugar and sulphuric acid , with increase of temperature , the characteristic rose-tint was developed .
The musky smell was not observable .
Honey .
December 26.-A portion of mucous membrane , carefully washed , was covered with a solution of honey ( one measure of honey to three of water ) .
After six hours ' exposure at 38 ?
C. , it was found bitter , and gave a precipitate with diluted acetic acid ; this was not the case with the original solution .
The fluid , being slightly acid , was carefully neutralized with carbonate of soda .
The taste , N after another period of six hours , was very bitter .
On the 28th the fluid had evaporated down to a thick honey consistence .
The next remark on this subject , in the author 's rough notes taken at the time , is the following : January 27.-"The honey solution is now nearly evaporated .
A mass of crystals ( grape-sugar ) with a small quantity of syrup , intensely bitter .
" The syrup could be readily poured off from the crystals .
The mucous membrane was not in the slightest degree decomposed ; swelled and elastic , not splitting into layers .
It is well known that , after long keeping , granules of grape-sugar are found in honey ; therefore , on the 22nd of April , the honey from which the experiments were made was re-examined , and found to be nearly homogeneous and not separated into crystals and syrup ; indeed the whole physical appearances are so different from the honey after being operated upon , that the author cannot doubt the influence of the membrane in effecting the changes registered .
At this stage of the inquiry an important doubt suggested itself .
In the above experiments no small importance has been attached to the circumstance of bitterness becoming developed in the various solutions when kept in contact with the membrane .
In every case indeed the membrane was washed with jealous care , but the fact is palpable , that it is almost impossible to divest the membrane of every trace of bitterness ; when this is effected as far as practicable , in a very few minutes the damp membrane increases perceptibly in bitterness .
When washed , submitted to pressure between folds of blotting-paper , stretched out on a board and dried as rapidly as possible in a current of warm air , it is still bitter .
May not the bitterness alluded to in the above cases be attributed to disintegration of the mucous membrane itself ?
The following experiments seemed sufficiently simple in their conditions and adapted to answer the query .
A body was selected in which well-known molecular disturbances are easily established-cane-sugar .
Sugar .
December 28.-A portion of membrane was covered with a solution of white sugar ; another portion , of the same size , was covered with lukewarm water , and both were exposed to a temperature of 32 ?
C. One hour having elapsed , the watery solution was just perceptibly bitter , the saccharine solution decidedly so .
December 29.-The watery solution was rendered very slightly turbid on the addition of diluted acetic acid ; this reagent , however , threw down a distinct precipitate from the saccharine solution .
January 5 , 1856 ( from note-book).-"The mucous membrane infused in simple water is today looking disintegrated , in layers , the solution opake and slimy ; slightly alkaline , justbitter .
The mucous membrane in sugar very bitter , perfectly transparent .
I believe that the difference of the mucous membrane , as infused in water and in syrup , appears to be well established .
" January 9.- " The sugar solution is perfectly transparent , very bitter , very slightly alkaline ; the membrane is much swelled out and thickened ; fresh .
The watery solution is becoming decomposed , alkaline , has lost its bitter taste , very turbid ; the membrane is shrivelled and separating into layers .
Microscopic examination referred the turbidness to broken-down epithelium .
" The report of the above series of experiments has been thus minutely transcribed , because it seems to place the active agency of the mucous membrane beyond reasonable doubt , so far as the class of bodies alluded to is concerned ; but principally because , as will be seen in the sequel , Pettenkofer 's method alone appears to fail in some cases as a discriminating test of the bile .
Action of the Mucous Menmbrane of the Gall-bladder upon Albumen .
January 27.-"At 3 P.M. took a portion of dry mucous membrane and carefully washed it in several waters ; it was then plunged into the white of an egg .
8 P.M. the glairy fluid is bitter .
" January 31.- " The solution apparently increasing in bitterness ; a little water added to supply the loss by evaporation .
" February 18.-"The albumen solution has from time to time been diluted with water .
Today I can barely detect bitterness , nor is the colour changed .
On applying Pettenkofer 's test , the play of colour , supposed to be characteristic of bile , was very distinct in the fluid portion ; the albumen coagulated by the heat , retaining its white colour .
" This result was perplexing ; on the 19th , therefore , an experiment was made on the white of an egg , per se , to ascertain whether the effect was due to the albumen .
The white of an egg was first boiled in water , to coagulate the albumen , and the filtered fluid , containing soluble albumen and probably other organic matters , was examined by Pettenkofer 's method .
On adding strong sulphuric acid the fluid underwent further coagulation , and the liquid portion became of a beautiful rose colour .
It remains to be determined whether the white of the egg contains any of the elements of the bile , or whether Pettenkofer 's method fails , as a discriminating test of the bile , in the presence of soluble albumen .
Having thus established the fact that the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder is capable of producing changes on the bodies and under the circumstances above stated , it became an important object of inquiry whether the hepatic fluid proper is capable of being influenced by its contact ; but how are we to isolate this secretion ?
If we take a portion of ox-liver , bruise it down , express the fluid , doubtless containing a large proportion of liver-bile , and place this fluid under an exhausted receiver over sulphuric acid , if in sufficient quantity for examination , it will be decomposed before evaporation is completed .
The same fluid undergoes changes also very rapidly at a slightly elevated temperature .
It was found in fact that from the temperature of 34 ?
C. to about 60 ?
C. putrefaction is easily produced in ox-liver , whereas , if plunged into water at the boilingpoint , no considerable changes of a putrefactive nature occurred .
Supposing then we plunge a very thin slice of liver into boiling water , we at once coagulate the albumen , or rather such portion of it as is insoluble in boiling water ; we break up the hepatic vessels and obtain a fluid containing a considerable quantity of hepatic bile .
It was found better not to keep up the boiling for any lengthened time , as the solution , in that case , contains much soluble albumen .
The liquid then having been allowed to boil for a few minutes , was removed from the fire and strained through a cloth ; the turbid solution cooled as rapidly as possible ; the upper portion poured off from the deposit , and thus experimented upon .
Diluted acetic acid caused no precipitate , nor was any perceptible reaction produced by Pettenkofer 's method , which would seem to indicate that the reaction observed in the white of the egg was not occasioned by the presence of albumen .
December 21 , 1855.-As in the previous cases , a portion of wellwashed mucous membrane was covered with the above solution and exposed to a temperature of 38 ?
C. , 39 ?
C. being considered as the maximum temperature of the ox .
In half an hour , on applying Pettenkofer 's test , the characteristic colour was beautifully developed .
December 22.-The solution last alluded to was this morning distinctly yellow , very bitter , and formed a precipitate with diluted acetic acid .
A musky odour is also perceptible .
On the 21st of December another portion of membrane was covered with the liver-broth and left at the ordinary temperature of the room in which the operation was conducted , 10 ?
C. After thirty hours ' digestion , the fluid was in the slightest degree bitter ; it was then exposed to a temperature of 50 ?
C. Three hours having elapsed , it was again examined and found decidedly bitter .
December 23.-Cursorily examined the fluid at 4 P.M. ; it is noted down as intensely bitter , becoming yellow , with slight musky odour .
December 24.-The solution , just undergoing metamorphosis on December 21st , was this day found as yellow as a diluted solution of ox-gall , musky odour distinct , intensely bitter .
Another remarkable feature in common with ox-gall as it is separated from the bladder was now developed : on pouring it into a glass for precipitation with acetic acid , it was found glairy , and instead of running off like water as it did originally , the drops were viscid like a solution of gumarabic .
The bitter taste was now also converted into a sweetishbitter , identical with the organic matter in ox-bile .
The solution gave a dense precipitate with diluted acetic acid , and the peculiar reaction of Pettenkofer 's test was most satisfactorily exhibited .
It may not be considered unimportant to mention , that , on repeating these experiments a few days ago , a portion of the solution , treated as above , was placed in the hands of a bystander wholly ignorant of the matter , with a request to smell without looking at it ; the report was , " You are mixing up some indian ink ; " indeed , the odour of musk seems to be one of the most important conjunctive indications of the presence of bile , after a few hours ' exposure to atmospheric air .
Many more experiments are registered in the author 's rough notes ; some of these have been repeated within the last few days , all with confirmatory results ; the following generalizations therefore appear legitimately deduced from the research:1st , That the mucus of the gall-bladder is not merely a secretion destined to lubricate the interior of that organ and protect it from the irritation of its other contents , but is an essential integral portion of the cystic bile .
2ndly , That the gall-bladder is not merely a receptacle and reservoir for the bile , but an organ highly endowed with organic functions ; and that the proper secretion of the liver is converted into cystic bile mainly through the agency of its mucous membrane .
In thus breaking up the surface of an interesting field of research , the writer is fully aware that a great amount of labour must still be expended upon its development ; he would also be understood to regard these experiments merely as expressing the results of nonvital reactions .
We can hardly indeed doubt that , under the influence of vitality , acting through the medium of that most important department of the nervous system , the solar plexus , molecular changes , not improbably analogous to or identical with those which we have described , may be carried on with an energy and efficiency which we cannot hope to witness in the laboratory .
Professor Clark , of Cambridge , has already suggested the extension of the research to the case of animals which have no gall-bladder , and in which the hepatic secretion is at once poured into the duodenum , to take its part in the process of assimilation .
The conjecture may not be far from the truth , that the mucous lining of the intestinal canal , the parotid gland , the pancreas , the kidney , the urinary bladder , has each its specific predestined function to perform ; and that in working out the subject , we may fall upon many a useful fact , many a beautiful analogy , and much to supply the wants and alleviate the sufferings of man .
Thursday the 29th of May having been set apart for the celebration of the Peace , the President announced that the next ordinary meeting of the Society would be held on Thursday , the 12th of June ,

