258 ZOOLOGY OF KEKGUELEN ISLAND .
Marine Annelida.\#151 ; By IV .
C. M ' ( Plate XV .
) The collection of Marine Annelida made during the stay of the English Transit of Venus Expedition comprises seven species , representing five families , one of which , however , is Nemertean .
Six appear to he new .
Like the Polyzoa and Coelenterata they were procured by a grapple in the Laminarian region , from depths of 10 fathoms and under .
The Lev .
A. E. Eaton states that the shore where he was stationed was somewhat unfavourable for collecting between tide-marks , as it consisted for the most part of ledges of rock without loose boulders , or of a coarse and barren shingle .
The mean temperature of the water between tide-marks was 36 ' E. Mr. Eaton found the same paucity of Annelida in the littoral region at Spitzbergen .
The American Transit of Venus Expedition obtained 4 species .
The tubicolar forms and Polynoidae occurred on the roots of , and some of the young Nereids in the usual silken tubes on the fronds of Belesseria .
None of the Annelids were found under stones , excepting the Earthworm described by Professor Lankester .
P OLYNOIDiE .
Hermadion longicirratus .
( Plate XV .
, figs. 1\#151 ; 4 .
) Hermadion longicirratus , Kbg .
Eregatten Eugen .
Besa , \amp ; c. , p. 22 , taf .
vi .
33 .
This form seems to be identical with Kinberg 's species from York Bay , Straits of Magellan , though the scales and bristles differ slightly from the published figures\#151 ; the former being densely covered with minute spinulose papillae ( fig. 1 ) , and the latter ( fig. 2 ) showing dorsally a less expanded distal region , with a close series of oblique rows of spines ( fig. 3 ) .
The tip in some is slightly dilated .
The ventral bristles , again , have the curve of the terminal hook pronounced , while the spinous region is rather narrow and short ( fig. 4 ) .
All the bristles are of a deep brownish yellow hue .
The antennae , tentacular cirri , and dorsal cirri have a filiform tip attached to a bulbous region , the latter and the rest of the cirrus beneath being furnished with small clavate papillae .
Much more minute clavate papillae occur on the palpi .
The brownish scales generally have a few whitish touches : the first is circular , the succeeding reniform , and the posterior elongated from before backwards .
It is a large and broad form , one specimen being about 2\ inches long .
JELab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay and Boyal Sound , Kerguelen Island ( Baton ) ; York Bay , Straits of Magellan ( Kinberg ) .
MARINE ANNELIDA.\#151 ; W. C. M'INTOSH .
Eupolynoe mollis .
( Plate XV .
, figs. 5\#151 ; 9 .
) MTntosh , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 4tli ser. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 319 .
This species superficially resembles A , Sars , though a close examination shows many points of difference , and leaves a general impression that the form is intermediate in character between the latter and such types as Harmothoe imbricata , L. The head is proportionally larger , and does not exhibit the nuchal process so characteristic of A. gelatinosa ; while instead of the closely approximated pair of large eyes on each side , the lateral pairs are widely separated , a large one occupying the anterior prominence and a small one being situated at the posterior border .
Moreover they nearly constitute a square , whereas in A. gelatinosa they lie in the processes of a V. The tentacle is absent ; but its basal segment is very large in comparison with the antennae and tentacular cirri .
In A. gelatinosa they do not differ much .
The scales appear to be fifteen on each side , and they are nearly as soft as those of A. gelatinosa , which they further resemble ( though smaller ) in shape and smoothness .
With regard to the latter , however , a high power shows that there is a limited area , near the outer and anterior border , covered with distinct papillae which are low and truncate ( fig. 5 ) .
The dorsal cirrus has a very slight enlargement below the tapering tip ( as in A. gelatinosa ) ; but , in addition , it has a few minute clavate papillae .
The latter also occur on the ventral cirri .
The feet are as distinctly marked as in Alentia ; but there is a much greater disproportion between the dorsal and ventral bristles , both of which are pale .
The dorsal fascicle consists of a short series of somewhat translucent bristles with distinct spinous rows ( almost as well marked as in Evarne ) , and gently tapering to a smooth portion at the tip ( fig. 6 ) the fine longitudinal lines being somewhat wavy .
The long ventral bristles , again , consist of two groups , more evidently separated than in Alentia or Eupolynoe anticostiensis .
The superior tuft arises behind the spine , and is composed dorsally of slender bristles ( fig. 7 ) with very elongated and delicately tapered spinous regions , ending in minutely bifid tips like those in Eupolynoe anticostiensis.*A gradual change ensues toward the lower bristles ( of this tuft ) , which have a stouter shaft , a shorter spinous region , and a strong hook with a secondary process at the tip ( fig. 8 ) .
The bristles of the next series have still stronger shafts , shorter spinous regions ; and the hook at the tip increases in size , while the secondary process diminishes ( fig. 9 ) .
Interiorly , again , there is a tendency to repeat the elongated spinous region and slender forked tip of the upper series .
* Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. ser. 4 , vol. xiii .
p. 265 , pi .
x. f. 3 .
K K 2 There are nine papillae on the dorsal border of the extruded proboscis , and as many on the ventral surface .
A filiform cirrus occurs under each inferior maxilla .
Nab.\#151 ; Royal Sound .
Nereids .
Nereis eatoni .
( PI .
XV .
, figs. 10\#151 ; 12 .
) MTntosli , Aun .
\amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 4th ser. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 320 .
This species somewhat resembles Nereis dumerilii , Aud , \amp ; Ed. The head has four large eyes , the anterior pair being somewhat ovoid and by far the larger .
When turned backward the long tentacular cirri reach to the fourteenth segment .
The maxillae have about eight distinct teeth behind the point .
The paragnathi form , near each maxilla , live long rows and four shorter ; and there are besides several interrupted transverse rows between the former on the ventral surface .
All are composed of denticulate horny processes of microscopic size .
The anterior feet have blunt processes ; their cirri are shorter ; and the bristles have on the whole shorter tips than in N. dumerilii , ranging from those with long tips ( fig. 10 ) to those with short terminal processes ( fig. 11 ) .
The articulating end of the shaft in the latter organs has also a somewhat wider pit for the terminal process .
At the twenty-fifth foot ( fig. 12 ) the superior lingula is rather larger than in N dumerilii , and the outline of the other processes also differs .
Towards the posterior extremity ( e.g. the sixtieth foot ) , again the superior lingula forms a very prominent elongated process , which is much thicker and less pointed than in the British form ; and it also differs from N polyodonta , Schmarda , in this respect .
Nab.\#151 ; Royal Sound .
[ Nereis antarctica .
Nereis antarctica , Verrill , Bulletin U. S. Nat. Mus. , 1876 , May , iii .
64 .
Nab.\#151 ; Royal Sound , on the beach ( Kidder ) .
] TEBEBELLIDJE .
Amphritrite kerguelenensis .
( PI .
XV .
, fig. 13 .
) MHntosli , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 4th ser. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 321 .
A large form with seventeen setigerous tubercles .
The cephalic region shows four lobes , viz. the ventral anterior lobe , a large process in front and beneath the first branchia , a fan-shaped lobe , and finally a large fold running from the root of the last branchia downwards .
The long branchiae spring from three short trunks on MARINE ANNELIDA.\#151 ; W. C. MTNTOSH .
each side .
There is a prominent papilla below each setigerous tubercle in the first six segments , and in addition a similar process below the second brancliia .
The ventral scutes appear to be twelve .
The hooks ( fig. 13 ) somewhat resemble those of A. affinis , Mgrn .
, but differ in the anterior curvature .
The colour of one specimen was purplish brown .
This species forms a heavy tube of fine mud , lined by a thin chitinous secretion ; and , from the flattening of the ventral surface , it would appear to lie on the bottom .
Sab.\#151 ; Royal Sound .
Neottis antarctica .
( PI .
XV .
, figs. 14 , 15 .
) MTntosli Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 4tli ser. , 1876 , April , xvii .
, p. 321 .
A very large member of the family , differing from Thelepus in having three groups of branchiae on each side , and from by the fact that the bristle-tufts commence on the third segment , and also by the structure of the hooks .
The cephalic lobe is furnished with numerous ocular specks .
The bristles resemble those of Thelepus , as also do the hooks , which are borne on a thin lateral lamella marked by a band of dark pigment .
A single process only appears in profile ( fig. 14 ) above the large tooth of the hook , though two are very evident in oblique views ( fig. 15 ) .
The brownish body is peculiarly streaked posteriorly by pale transverse lines .
The animal constructs a large chitinous tube of a dark brownish colour , on which Polyzoa , Zoophytes , and Algse flourish .
Sab.\#151 ; Royal Sound , very common .
[ Neottis spectabilis .
Verrill , Bulletin U. S. Nat. Mus. 1876 , May , iii .
, 66 .
Sab.\#151 ; Royal Sound , in 12 fathoms ( Kidder ) .
] SERPULIDiE .
Serpula , sp. ( Plate XV .
, fig. 16 .
) The softened specimen resembles A. ve L. , in external appearance ; but the operculum is absent .
The branchiae appear to be about forty in number on each side .
The anterior hooks ( fig. 16 ) are larger than in vermicularis , and form a triangle of quite a different shape .
The uncini along the edge of the organ are seven or eight in number , the inferior , as usual , surpassing the rest in size .
The posterior hooks present the same structure , and are accompanied by the brush-shaped bristles as in S. vermicularis .
262 ZOOLOGY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
The tube resembles that of the latter , even to the double funnels so often seen in front .
The absence of the operculum prevents further definition .
The undeveloped left opercular process resembles that in S. , though it is somewhat longer .
Hab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay .
NEMEBTINEA .
LINEIDiE .
Lineus corrugatus .
( Plate XV .
, fig. 17 .
) MTntosh , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 4th ser. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 322 .
Body ( in spirit ) flattened , rather abruptly pointed anteriorly , and more gradually posteriorly .
The oesophageal region is marked externally by a series of prominent and somewhat regular rugae , which sweep from the mouth dorsally and ventrally ; so that the dorsal view recalls that observed in Avion Colour dark olive throughout , with the exception of a white band , which crosses the anterior border of the snout , and passes backward to the posterior third of the lateral fissure , where it bends dorsally and terminates .
The special characters are the very large mouth , with the prominent rugae , which show that the animal probably possesses unusual powers of oesophageal protrusion\#151 ; a supposition borne out by the great development of the external circular muscular fibres ( fig. 17 cm ) , the dorsal longitudinal coat , and the other fibres of the organ .
The internal glandular lining j is also very firm .
The outer layers of the proboscis correspond with the type in the Lineidae ; but the internal longitudinal layer e , observed in an imperfect condition in Micrura fusca , * is largely developed .
Hab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay .
Explanation op Plate XV .
Eig .
1 .
Portion of the scale of Hermadion , Kbg .
, the inferior edge being slightly turned so as to show the papillae in profile .
X 210 diam. Eig .
2 .
Dorsal bristle of the foregoing form .
X about 20 diam. Eig .
3 .
Tip of another dorsal bristle .
X 90 diam. Eig .
4 .
Ventral bristle from the middle of the fascicle .
X 97 diam. Eig .
5 .
Portion of the outer and anterior border of the scale of JEupolynoe mollis .
On the inferior margin the papillae are seen in profile .
X 210 diam. Eig .
6 .
Tip of a dorsal bristle of the same .
X 210 diam. Eig .
7 .
Tip of a slender bifid bristle from the superior ventral series .
X 350 diam. Eig .
8 .
Tip of one of the lower bristles from the same tuft .
X 350 diam. * Brit. Annelida , Ray Soc. , Pt. i. p. 103 , PI .
20 , fig. 4 .
MARINE ANNELIDA.\#151 ; W. C. M'lNTOSH .
Pig .
9 .
Pig .
10 .
Pig .
11 .
Pig .
12 .
Pig .
13 .
Pig .
14 .
Pig .
15 .
Pig .
16 .
Pig .
17 .
Pig .
18 .
One of the smaller bristles from the middle of the next ventral series .
X 210 diam. Bristle with a long tip , from the ventral series of Nereis eatoni .
X 350 diam. Bristle with a short tip from the ventral series of the same .
The twenty-fifth foot of the foregoing form .
X about 12 diam. Anterior hook of Amphitrite kerguetenensis .
X 350 diam. Anterior hook of Neottis Antarctica .
X 350 diam. Tips of two of the former seen obliquely .
X 350 diam. Anterior hook of Serpnla-------- ?
X 350 diam. Vertical transverse section of the ventral body-wall in Linens showing the thick circular muscular layer { cm ) enveloping the oesophageal region ; cl " , pigmentary layer divided ( as in Linens mar inns ) by a definite black hand { 2 ) ; 3 , curious translucent stratum cut into somewhat regular spaces ; e , external longitudinal muscular layer of the body-wall ; e ' , circular muscular coat ; e " , inner ( longitudinal ) muscular layer ; j , firm glandular lining of the oesophagus ; v , vascular meshes around the oesophageal region .
X 55 diam. Transverse section of the proboscis of the same : , external coat ; great longitudinal muscular layer ; c , belt of circular muscular fibres ; d , basement layer ; e , internal longitudinal muscular layer , specially developed in this form ; fie glandular lining of the organ thrown into various folds ; g , lozenge-sliaped portion of longitudinal fibres formed by the crossing of two bands from the circular muscular coat ; g ' , separate segment at the other pole of the circle .
The two latter are somewhat indistinct .
X 55 diam. ins .
of Venus ExpecL .
Kerguelen Island .
Zoology PI XV W.C.M. dd .
" Mintem Bros Hth .

