Experiments in Micro-metallurgy .
" Experiments in Micro-metallurgy : Effects of Strain .
Pieliminary Notice .
" By James A. Ewing , F.R.S. , and Walter Rosenhain , 1851 Exhibition Research Scholar , Melbourne University .
Received and Read March 16 , 1899 .
[ Plates 1\#151 ; 5 .
] Much information has been obtained regarding the structure of metals by the methods of microscopic examination initiated by Sorby and successfully pursued by Andrews , Arnold , Charpy , Martens , Osmond , Roberts-Austen , Stead , and others .
When a highly polished surface of metal is lightly etched and examined under the microscope , it reveals a structure which shows that the metal is made up in general of irregularly shaped grains with well defined bounding surfaces .
The exposed face of each grain has been found to consist of a multitude of crystal facets with a definite orientation .
Seen under oblique illumination , these facets exhibit themselves by reflecting the light in a uniform manner over each single grain , but in very various manners over different grains , and , by changing the angle of incidence of the light , one or another grain is made to flash out comparatively biightly over its whole exposed surface , while others become dark .
It is also well known that the grains are deformed when the metal is subjected to such processes as cold hammering , or cold rolling , or wire-drawing .
On polishing and etching a piece strained in any such way , the grains are found to be on the whole longer in the direction in which the metal is extended than in other directions .
But on heating the metal sufficiently a re-formation of structure occurs , and the grains are found to have again assumed forms in which there is no direction of predominating length .
In iron this recrystallisation occurs at a red heat .
It is also known that prolonged exposure of iron to a temperature of about 700 ' C. tends to produce a larger granular structure than is found if the metal is somewhat quickly cooled from a higher temperature .
The grains appear to be produced by crystallisation proceeding , more or less simultaneously , from as many centres or nuclei as there are grains , and the irregular more or less polygonal boundaries which are seen on a polished and etched surface result from the meeting of these crystal growths .
The grains are , in fact , crystals , except that each of their bounding surfaces is casually determined by the meeting of one growth with another .
This is , we believe , the view usually accepted by metallurgists but there is considerable difference of opinion as to the part played by foreign matter in possibly contributing to form a cement at the intergranular junctions .
* See especially two papers by Mr. J. E. Stead ( ' Jour .
Iron and Steel Inst. , 1898 ) .
86 Mr. J. A. Ewing and Mr. W. Eosenhain . .
experiments , of which this is a preliminary account , have been directed to examine the behaviour of the crystalline grains when the metal is subjected to strain .
For this purpose we have watched a polished surface under the microscope while the metal was gradually extended until it broke .
By arranging a small straining machine on the stage of the microscope , we have been able to keep under continuous observation a particular group of crystalline grains while the piece was being stretched , and have obtained series of photographs showing the same group at various stages in the process .
Strips of annealed sheet iron , sheet copper , and other metals have been examined in this way .
We have also observed the effects of strain on the polished surfaces of bars in a 50-ton testing machine by means of a microscope hung from the bar itself , and have further observed the effects of compression and of torsion .
^ hen a piece of iron 01 other metal exhibiting the usual granular structure is stretched beyond its elastic limit a remarkable change occurs in the appearance of the polished and etched surface , as seen by the usual method of " vertical " illumination .
A number of sharp black lines appear on the faces of the crystalline grains : at first they appear on a few grains only , and as the straining is continued they appear on more and more grains .
On each grain they are more or less straight and parallel , but their directions are different on different grains .
At first , just as the yield-point of the material is passed , the few lines which can be seen are for the most part transverse to the direction of the pull .
As the stretch becomes greater oblique systems of lines on other grains come into view .
The photograph , fig. 1 ( Plate 1 ) , taken from a strip of transformer plate ( rolled from Swedish iron and annealed after rolling ) , gives a characteristic view of these lines as they appear after a moderate amount of permanent stretching , but long before the iron has reached its breaking limit .
The appearance of each grain is so like that of a crevassed glacier , that these dark lines might readily be taken for cracks .
Against this , however , was the consideration that an over-strained piece of iron recovers its original elasticity after a period of rest , though , as we found , the dark lines did not disappear when recovery took place , and further that sharp lines of the same nature were not seen on the surface of metal which was polished and etched after straining .
The real character of the lines is apparent when the crystalline constitution of each grain is considered .
They are not cracks , but slips along planes of cleavage or gliding planes .
Fig. 2 is intended to represent a section through the upper part of two contiguous surface grains , having cleavage or gliding planes as indicated by the cross-hatching , AB being a portion of the polished surface .
When the metal is pulled beyond its elastic limit , in the Experiments in Micro-metallurgy .
direction of the arrows , yielding takes place by finite amounts of slips occurring at a limited number of places in the manner shown at a , b , c , d , e ( fig. 3 ) .
This slip exposes short portions of inclined surfaces , and when viewed under normally incident light , these sui faces appear black because they return no light to the microscope .
They are consequently seen as dark lines or narrow bands , extending over the polished surface in directions which depend on the intersection of the polished surface with the surfaces of slip .
We have proved the correctness of this view by examining these bands under oblique light .
When the light is incident at only a small angle to the polished surface , the surface appears for the most part dark ; but here and there a system of the parallel bands shines out brilliantly , in consequence of the short cleavage or gliding surfaces which constitute the bands having the proper inclination for reflecting the light into the microscope .
Tig .
4 is the photograph of a strained piece of Swedish iron illuminated in this way .
The magnification is 280 diameters .
The groups of parallel bright bands which appear in the photograph may readily be observed under the microscope to be exactly coincident with the black bands seen under vertical illumination ; and by changing the angle of incidence of the oblique light , the same bands may be made to appear dark on a faintly luminous ground .
Rotation of the stage to which the strained specimen is fixed makes the bands on one or another of the grains flash out successively , with kaleidoscopic effect .
In what follows we shall speak of these lines as slip bands .
Fig. 1 , through a mixed illumination , shows some of the slip bands bright and some dark .
Incidentally fig. 4 illustrates the fact that oblique lighting picks out the boundaries of the crystalline grains , showing that these boundaries are marked by inclined surfaces connecting grains whose faces are at different levels .
This is observed also in the etched surface of the metal before straining .
The boundaries , which appear dark under vertical light , are bright on one side of each crystalline grain , when the light falls with grazing incidence from one side .
But the sloping surfaces which mark the boundaries between the grains have by no means the sharply definite inclination which characterises the surfaces which form the slip bands .
One or more groups of slip bands will shine out very brightly when the light has a particular angle of incidence , and will vanish when the incidence is slightly changed .
The boundaries are not in general so bright , but they remain fairly bright while the incidence is changed through wide limits .
When the metal is much strained a second system of bands appears on some of the grains , crossing the first system at an angle , and in some cases showing little steps where the lines cross .
These bands are clearly due to slips occurring in a second set of cleavage or gliding surfaces .
An example of the crossed systems of bands will be seen in 88 Mr. J. A. Ewing and Mr. W. Rosenhain .
fig. 8 .
The crystals in metals are generally cubical , but the angle at which the intersecting systems of bands cross depends on the inclination of the polished surface to the planes of cleavage .
Occasionally a third system of bands may be seen .
As straining proceeds the originally smooth surface of the specimen becomes roughened by the surface grains changing in their relative levels and also becoming more or less inclined , as well as more or less stepped .
All this happens in consequence of the slips which they and their neighbours undergo .
To this is due the dull appearance which an originally bright surface assumes when the metal is overstrained .
Under the microscope the strained surface is seen to be full of ups and downs , and a continuous alteration in focus is required to trace the system of bands , even over the face of a single grain .
When the experiment is made with a polished but unetched specimen the slip bands appear equally well .
The boundaries of the grains are invisible before straining j but they can be distinguished as the strain proceeds , for the slip bands form a cross-hatching which serves to mark out the surface of each grain .
To strain a polished but unetched specimen reveals in a striking way the granular character of the structure.* Figs. 5 , 6 , and 7 are selected from a series of photographs showing under a magnification of 140 diameters , the same group of crystalline grains in a specimen of soft wrought iron at various stages of straining by pull .
The arrows show the direction in which the pull was applied .
Fig. 5 shows the group before straining began .
Fig. 6 is the same group after the strain had been carried some way past the yield point .
Fig. 7 is the same group after the piece had suffered considerable further extension in the same direction .
Comparison of the three will show how the grains change their shape in consequence of the slips which occur in them , and also how the faces of the grains become tilted and altered in relative level .
Fig 8 is another sample of iron strained by pull .
The specimen in this case was a bar of Swedish iron , in which a comparatively large crystalline structure had been developed by annealing for some hours at 700 ' C. The photograph was taken after the bar had been broken in the testing machine , and shows with a magnification of 400 diameters a portion of the surface not far from the place of fracture .
The large grain which appears to the left in fig. 8 measured 0T6 mm. in the direction of the arrows before straining , and was extended by the strain in that direction to about 0-2 mm. The slip bands upon it are on the average 1/ 400 mm. apart .
This applies to both of the two systems of bands which appear in the photograph .
The apparent * The fact that the crystalline structure is revealed when a specimen with a polished unetched surface is strained has already been pointed out by Charpy ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 123 , ' 1896 , p. 225 ) .
Experiments in Micro-metallurgy .
89 width of the slip bands themselves is too small to be measured with any accuracy ; it does not appear at any place here to exceed 1/ 2000 mm. The slip-bands are developed by compression as well as by extension .
Fig. 9 is a photograph ( at 400 diameters ) from the polished and etched side of a block of Low Moor iron compressed in the testing machine sufficiently to give it a considerable amount of permanent set .
The bands developed by compression have apparently all the characteristics which they present in stretched pieces , and we could not , by microscopic examination of the surface , distinguish , in this respect between the effects of compression and extension .
The irregular dark patches in fig. 9 are streaks of slag .
By twisting an iron bar well beyond the elastic limit the slip-bands are made to appear , for the most part in directions parallel and perpendicular to the axis of twist .
A strip of sheet metal , such as iron or copper , in the soft state , when bent and unbent in the fingers shows them we 'll developed by the extension and compression of the surface .
We have developed the slip-bands in iron , steel , copper , silver , lead , bismuth , tin , gun-metal , and brass .
In silver they show particularly well , the crystalline structure being large and the lines straight .
In copper also the lines are straighter and more regularly spaced than is general in iron .
Most of these metals have been tested in the form of blocks under compression .
A beautiful development of slip-bands may readily be produced by pinching a button of polished silver or copper in a vice .
In carbon steels we have found the slip-bands considerably more difficult to observe than in wrought iron .
The smaller granular structure of steel apparently makes the slip-bands correspondingly minute .
In mild steel they are seen readily enough , but in a rather high carbon steel we succeeded in seeing them only with difficulty in the " ferrite " areas under a magnification of 1,000 diameters .
A cast piece of the nearly pure iron used for dynamo magnets showed a relatively very large granular structure and well marked slip-bands .
These experiments throw what appears to us to be new light on the character of plastic strain in metals and other irregular crystalline aggregates .
Plasticity is due to slip on the part of the crystals along cleavage or gliding surfaces .
Each crystalline grain is deformed by numerous internal slips occurring at intervals throughout its mass .
In general these slips no doubt occur in three planes , or possibly more , and the combination of the three allows the grain to accommodate itself to its envelope of neighbouring grains as the strain proceeds .
The action is discontinuous : it is not a homogeneous shear but a series of finite slips , the portion of the crystal between one slip and the next behaving like a rigid solid .
The process of slipping is one which takes 90 Experiments in Micro-metallurgy .
times , and m this respect the aggregate effect is not easily distinguishable from the deformation of a viscous liquid .
We infer from the experiments that \#171 ; flow " or non-elastic deformation m metals occurs through slip within each crystalline grain of portions of the crystal on one another along surfaces of cleavage or gliding surfaces .
There is no need to suppose the portions which slip to be other than perfectly elastic .
The slip , when it occurs , involves the expenditure of work in an irreversible manner .
It is because the metal is an aggregate of irregular crystals that it is plastic as a whole , and is able to be deformed in any manner as a result of the slips occurring in individual crystals .
Plasticity requires that each portion should be able to change its shape and its position .
Each crystalline grain changes its shape through slips occurring within itself , and its position through slips occurring in other grains.* From what is known about the break-down in elasticity which occurs as the immediate effect of overstrain and the subsequent recovery of elasticity after a period of rest , it would seem that the surfaces over which slip has occurred are at first weak , but heal with the lapse of time .
To discuss these points , however , lies beyond the scope of a preliminary notice .
The experiments were made in the engineering laboratory at Cambridge , and are being continued .
We wish to take this opportunity of thanking Sir W. Roberts-Austen and Mr. T. Andrews for the great kindness with which , at the outset of our work , they gave us the benefit of their experience in preparing and observing microscopic specimens of metals .
[ Note added Npril 14 , 1899.\#151 ; In a specimen of cast nickel , which showed after etching a crystalline structure much resembling that of iron , but on a considerably smaller scale , straining developed minute slip-bands , which are clearly apparent under a power of 1,000 diameters .
We have also examined a specimen of pure gold by compressing a cast button with a polished face , not etched .
The straining reveals crystalline structure on a large scale , and in each of the crystalline grains there is a superb development of slip-bands .
They are long , nearly straight , exceedingly numerous , and very closely spaced .
A power of 1,000 diameters is required to see them well .
Two intersecting systems are common , and three are well seen in some of the grains , forming a regular geometrical network .
The intergranular boundaries are sharply defined by the meeting of the slip-bands on each grain with those on its neighbours .
The slip-bands in adjacent crystals meet in a way which demonstrates the absence of any appreciable quantity of foreign matter in the intergranular junctions .
] # Attention should be called in this connection to the experiments of Messrs , McConnel and Kidd on the plasticity of glacier ice ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 44 , p. 331 ) .
They found that bars cut from glacier ice , which is an aggregate of irregular crystals , are plastic .
Ewing and Roscnhain .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , Vol. 65 , Plate 1 .
FlO .
1.\#151 ; Soft Sheet Iron strained by tension .
400 diameters* Fig.* .
Before '777771 '/ // , \lt ; \#151 ; ?
Fig. 3 .
After straining .
\gt ; X\NN \ Fi\lt ; j. 4\#151 ; Swedish Iron , much strained , seen under oblique illumination .
280 diameters .
Ewing and Rosenhain .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , Vol. 65f Plate 3* Fig. 5 , \#151 ; Before straining .
140 diameters .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; After moderate straining .
140 diameters , Ewing and Rosenhain .
KoV ' ^oc ' Vol. 65 , 4 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; After further straining .
140 diameters .
\lt ; --------------------------- ?
Ewing and Roy .
Sof .
Proc. , Vo/ .
65 , Plate 5 .

