1894 .
] Organisation , and Classification of Fossil Reptilia .
227 .
VI .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part IX .
Section 2 .
On the Reputed Mammals from the Karroo Formation of Cape Colony .
" By H. Gr .
Seeley , F.R.S. Received January 4 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The author re-examines the remains of , and contests the interpretation of the carpus given by Professor Bardeleben , producing specimens of South African Reptiles in which there is a single bone beneath the radius , as in Theriodesmus .
This character is shown in a small skeleton , at present undescribed , which the author obtained from Klipfontein , Fraserberg , which he regards as referable to a new genus .
Other evidence is produced supporting the interpretation of three bones in the proximal row in the carpus , in a specimen from Lady Frere .
The author then compares the forelimb of Theriodesmus with that of which was obtained subsequently , and arrives at the conclusion that the types of limb are too closely related to be referred to different orders of animals , and therefore that Theriodesmus must be transferred from the Mammalia to the Therosuchia .
The skull described as Tritylodon longcevus is examined , and its close resemblance to the skulls of new Theriodonts is pointed out .
The author believes that it shows evidence of possessing both prefrontal and post-frontal bones , which were situate as in Theriodonts , and circumscribed the orbits in the same way ; so that , although the post-frontal bones appear to have met in the median line to form a crest , at the back of the frontal , there is no other character in the skull by which it can be distinguished from the skull of a Theriodont .
It therefore appears to be reptilian , and thus would make known divided roots to the molar teeth in Reptilia , and a more complicated type of crown than in any Theriodont yet known .
VII .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part IX .
Section 3 .
On fiiademodon .
" By H. Q- .
Seeley , F.R.S. Received January 12 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The author describes fragments of jaws and teeth from Upper arroo strata at Wonderboom and Aliwal North , collected by R. D. annemeyer and Alfred Brown .
They may possibly belong to more

