]\gt ; On the Dcnsity of Nitj 181 On the Density of Nitrous Oxide By LOR.1 ) F.R.S. Received , 1904 .
In the ' Proceedings , ' vol. 72 , p. 204 , I have given particnla ] of weighings of nitrous oxide purified by two distinct methods .
In the first procedure , solution in tter employed as a means of separating less soluble impurities , and the result was grammes .
In the second method process of fractional distillation was employed .
drawn from the iquid so prepared gave .
These numbers may be taken to represent the corrected weight of the gas which fills the globe at C. and at the pressure of the ( at , and they correspond to for oxygen .
Inasmuch as nitrous oxide is heavier than the impurities likely to be contained in it , the second number was the more probable .
But thought that the first method should also given a good result , I contented ] nith the mean of the two luethods , viz. , , from which I oalculated that to air ( free from ) and CO unity , the density of nitrous oxide ) ) The corresponding density found by .
Leduc is tppreciably higher than mine ; and M. Leduc argues the weighed me must still have contained one or two thousandths of nitrogen .
According to him the weight of the gas contnined in my globe should ) , or milligrammes above the mean of the two methods .
Wishing , if possible , to resolve the question thus ised , I have lately resumed these researches , purifying the nitrous oxide with the aid of liquid air kindly placed at my disposal by Sir J. , but I have not succeeded in raising the weight of my gas by more a ction of the discrepancy ( milligramme ) .
I have experimented lyith carefully prepared in the laboratory from itrate of ammollia , bnt most of the work related to material specially supplied in an irol bottle I will limit myself to it .
There are two ways in which the gas may be from the supply .
bVhen the valve is upwards , the supply comes from vaporous portion within the bottle , ) when the valve is nwards , from the liquid portion .
The latter is the lno]e free from retYeyvo impurities , and accordingly gives the higher weight , and the dilferenco veen the two affords an indication of the amount of inlpurity present .
After treatment with caustic alkali and sulphuric acid , the gas is conducted through a tap , which is closed when it is desired to tcuum over the frozen mass , and thence nhydridc to the globe .
the details of apparatns , eference must be made to former ) .
The condellsing c ) hich can ) 182 Lord .
[ Sept. imnlersed in liquid air , is in the form of a vertical tube , cm .
in } to the nlain channel .
rried oottom , jected trequent iamme.ight Ttock ourified , much aurpose tbout obeingdi eTfihnedifinrgst oeuxtp tworst Teight vabout 3 ' liquid an .
The results stand:\mdash ; July 20 , Jnly 3.6362 bottom oottle , ollowed experiment istill drawn fheby condensation wiquid .
The gas , arriving in regular stream , was solidified in the condensing chaml ) .
lVhen it was judged that a sufficiency had been collected , the tap behind lvas turned and a i.qh vacuum established .
the solid with the of the Toplor pump .
The pump then be cut offand the gas lowed to evaporate and accumulate in the globe .
A reapplication of liquid air catlsed the gas to desert the for the condcnsing chamber , ultil in a ' short time -established .
Little or nothing could be drawn off the pump , and it -as thonght that distinct difference could be erceived between the first and second operations , indicating that in the first condensation little impurity remained gaseous .
If desired , the condensation be repeated a time .
On one occasion gust 7 the ' to , for which purpose the pressnre must risc to ot short of .tmosphcric , to blolv off of its conteltts:\mdash ; August.3 .
Tho tment with liquid .
rnised tho ) o1lly millimlne , the impl.ovement is ] .
That the stock in The tempernture ) ) } itic .
1e this to On th Density .
183 still contained appreciable impurity is indicated by a weighing August 13 , in which without liquid air the gas was drawn from the of the bottle .
There appeared Augnst 13 about 1 milligramme short of the proper weight .
It will be seen that the result without liquid air is almost identical with that found by the same method in 1896 , and that the further by means of liquid air raises the weight only to find it difficult to believe that so purified the gas still contains !
appreciable quantities of nitrogen .
The corresponding weight of air being 2 we find , referred air as unity , the density of nitrous oxide is Again , if oxygen be taken as 16 , the density of nitrous oxide will be The excess alJove 2 is doubtless principally due to the departure of nitrous oxide from Boyle 's law between atmospheric pressure and condition of great rarefaction .
I hope shortly to be in a position to apply the correction which will allow us to iIlfer what is the ratio of molecular weights according to Avogadro 's rule .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 53 , p. 184 , 1893 ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 4 , p. 47 .

