]\gt ; Emissivity of Solid and Liquid at High Temperatures .
451 materials , and found to satisfy the same form of equations as those previously given for aluminium , the constants considerably .
( 2 ) hness of the cathode surface does not appear to affect the discharge , if the dimensions of the irregularities are small compared with the length of the space .
( 3 ) The of the dark space is shown , in the cases examined , to be greatest for silver and least for nesium , the metals the same order as in the case of the cathode fall .
( 4 ) The rate of of length of the dark spnce with of current density at the surface of the cathode seems much the same for all cathodes .
( 5 ) Difficulties in the way of , at a explanation of these and other data connected with ) dark space are indicated and shortly discussed .
In conclusion the author wishes to express his best thallks t Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for his kind interest and advice during the ions described in this and in the previons paper .
A Spectro-photometric Comparison of the Emissivity of Solid Liquid Gold at High Temperatures ) of a Full By C. M. STUBS , M.A. , Exhibition Scholar , University of New Zealand , and E. B. R. PRIDEAUX , M.A. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. F. G. Donnan , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1912 .
) ( From the Muspratt Laboratory , University of Liverpool .
) Intro It is well known that copper and gold emit reenish or bluish light at high temperatures .
Kirchhoff 's radiation law obviously ests a connection between this selective emissivity and the selective reflectivity of these metals at ordinary temperatures , which gives rise to their colour .
According to that law the emissivity of a surface at a temperature is connected with its absorptivity , by relation where is the emissivity of a full radiator or black body\ldquo ; at the same temperature T. This relation holds for each particular wave-length .
The ratio may be conveniently called , and will be referred to hereafter in Mr. Stubs and Dr. Prideaux .
Emissivity of this paper as , the " " relative emissivity\ldquo ; of the surface .
The above law then states that the relative emissivity of a body is equal to its absorptivity for the same wave-length and temperature .
For opaque bodies , such as metals , the reflectivity is equal to : and hence the relative emissivity This relation holds strictly only if emission and reflection take place at the same temperal , ; but if , as stated by several investigators , the reflectivity of metals for visible rays does not vary with the temperature , a heated metallic surface should emit well those rays for which it is when cold a poor reflector , and vice .
This has actually been observed qualitatively for gold and copper by Schaum and Wustenfell* in a recent comparison of the emission spectra of these metals with that of an approximate " " black body They also draw attention to the " " green-glow\ldquo ; which first makes its appearance when these metals are heated , instead of the usual \ldquo ; In the present research is attempted for the first time a more accurate investigation of these phenomena for a " " coloured\ldquo ; metal , by a systematic spectro-photolnetric examination of the emissivity of gold , in both the solid and liquid state .
The nearest approach to such an investigation has been made by Burgess , the main object to fix for pyrometrical purposes the true temperature corresponding to the\ldquo ; black body\ldquo ; temperature of molten copper .
The " " black body\ldquo ; teluperature was observed by means of a Holborn-Kurlbaum optical pyrometer fitted with red and green glasses as light filters .
Two measurements of the radiation from gold have been made by Holborn and Henning .
In this case also coloured glasses were employed .
These researches will be referred to later ; suffice it to say here that the smallness of portion of the spectrum ated , as well as the lack of monochromatism of the coloured glasses , render the results of somewhat uncertain value .
Assuming that the reflectivity does not vary with the temperature , the present investigation would be expected to yield an interesting confirmation of Kirchhoff 's law ; if , however , such a variation take place , ibs nature would be determined .
Of particular interest was the question whether to the change of physical state at the melting point of the metal there corresponded a sudden change in emissivity , to the sudden change in electrical conductivity and certain optical constants observed in the case of tin and other metals at their melting points .
S In their choice of gold as the first 'Zeits .
wiss .
Phot 1911 , vol. 10 , p. 213 .
'Bull .
Bur .
Standards , ' 1909 , vol. 6 , p. 111 .
Sitz .
Ber .
Berlin Akad 1905 , vol. 12 , p. 311 .
S Nicholson , ' Phil. Mag Aug. , 1911 , p. 266 .
1912 .
] Solid Liquid at High Temperatures .
metal to be ated the authors have been gnided by several considerations , prominent among which stood the absence of difficulties connected with surface oxidation .
Copper is now under inyestigation by one of us , and it is hoped that the results for this metal also will shortly be ready for publication .
Appartus and Method .
The principle of the method used to measure the relative emissiviCy of the gold was as follows : The metal was heated in a vertical electrical resistance furnace , the te1nperature being determined by means of a thermocouple dipped in the metal .
The emissivity , for different wave-lengGhs , of the plane horizontal liquid or solid surface was then compared , by means of a spectro-photometer looking vertically down on the surface , with the from the standard electric lamp of the instrument .
In a second experiment , \ldquo ; black body\ldquo ; replaced the gold , the temperature was read as before , and the " " black body\ldquo ; emissivity compared with the standard lamp .
By interpolation , using the " " black body\ldquo ; radiation for the exact temperatures at which the radiation had been measured could then be calculated in terms of the comparison lamp , and through the medium of the latter compared with the gold radiation , thus giving the relative emissivity of the gold , for the various .
The apparatus used will now be described in detail .
The was Messrs. Johnson and Matthey 's " " fine gold of ohest purity , from to fine About 125 .
were heated in a silica capsule of about 4 cm .
internal diameber , the depth of metal being thus about 6 mm. * When the radiation from the solid metal was to be obseryed , the gold was turned to a flat surface and polished , as described later .
The experimental " " black body\ldquo ; consisted of a graphite block 11 cm .
long and 5 cm .
in diameter , in the centre of which was bored a hole 12 mm. wide and 9 cm .
deep .
It was placed so that the lower half was in the hottest part of the furnace , and the graphite wall being thick and a good conductor ensured several centimetres of nearly uniform temperature .
Practical evidence of the fact that the bottom of the hole radiated very approximately as a " " black body\ldquo ; was that the white thermo-couple tube .
which protruded into it , was indistinguishable from its surroundings .
The heating tube of the platinum-wound resistance furnace was 5 cm .
in internal diameter , and cm .
long ; its lower half was blocked with asbestos and sand .
By the external resistance , the temperature could be * It may be noted in passing that , on cooling , the gold in each case adhered to and shattered the crucible , some of the fragments being so firmly attached that it was necessary to dissolve them in hydrofluoric acid .
454 Mr. Stubs and Dr. Prideaux .
Emissivity of [ June 21 , kept constant to within , at any point up to the safe temperature-limit , viz. , 120 C. In order to minimise heat-losses , several diaphragms of sheet nickel and asbestos were suitably placed at the top of the furnace .
When the gold was being observed the central apertures of these diaphragms were of such a calculated size that no radiated or reflected light from any of the could , by reflection at surface , become visible in the spectro-photometer .
The latter instrument , which looked vertically down at the field to be observed , was supported on a board above the furnace , and to protect it from the heat of the furnace , a water-cooled copper plate provided with a small hole through which observations were made was interposed immediately below it .
The bottom of this plate was lampblacked , and with these precautions no ap direct or reflected light , save that emitted by the surface examined , could possibly be visible in the field of view .
The spectro-photometer was of the Konig-Wanner type , as modified by Nernst , and manufactured by Schmidt and Haensch .
* Attention may be drawn to the fact that , as light emitted obliquely from metallic surfaces is known to be partially polarised , this type of spectro-photometer can only be used\mdash ; as was the case in these experiments\mdash ; to measure the normally emitted mpolarised 1 .
The standard source of light used in connection with the instrument was a special 2-volt Osram glow-lamp , illuminating a matt lass screen .
The method of ensuring the constancy of this lamp will be described below .
The scale and ometer circle indicating the portion of the spectrum examined were calibrated in terms of the wave-lengths:\mdash ; Li , Na , ; Ne , ; Tl , ; ; He , ; He , ; and .
The light visible in the field of view was found to have a spectral breadth of about 8 ; the " " wave-lengths\ldquo ; tabulated below are the optical centres of gravity of such spectral regions .
The temperatures were measured by means of two thermocouples enclosed in thin-walled tubes .
The , taken alternately , served to check one another , and permitted a greater accuracy .
The thermocouples were thrice calibrated during the course of the experiments , and showed little variation .
The fixed points chosen for the calibration were the freezing points , in a reducing atmosphere , of silver and copper on the thermodynamic scale .
The constants in the formula , , connecting temperature and , were thus determined ; and since the temperature was never far removed from * Konig , ' Wied .
Ann 1894 , vol. 53 , p. 783 ; Hildebraud , ' Zeits .
Elektrochemie , ' 1908 , vol. 14 , p. 349 .
Day and Sosman , ' Amer .
Journ. Sci 1910 , vol. 29 , p. 93 .
1912 .
] Solid and Liquid Gold at Higf , , the above fixed points , the formula would give relial ) results .
The E.M.F. of the couples was measured on a Clark-Fisher -unit pyro-potentiometer , which read directly to 1 microvolt , corresponding to C. Sources of Er ror and their ) In the present research the chief experimental arose in connection with the surface condition of the gold , the measurement of temperature , and the of the spectro-photometer .
These three sources of error , the methods used to avoid them , and their on the final result , will now be discussed .
1 .
Impurities or inequalities on the surface of the gold were the source of considerable trouble .
The htest surface film influences the enlissivity to a marked extent , increasing the red radiation in which the gold is so weak .
These surface impurities were easily and finally remoyed from the molten metal by fusion with bolax ; the surface was obtained absolutely free from scum , and bright objects held above it vere mirrored perfectly .
The dark centre ring ( inage of the in the ) was clearly defined , and reflected no from the diaphragms or furnace walls .
In the case of the ] ished solid ever , considerable difficulties were encountered .
The surface was turned flat in a lathe , then treated successively with four rades of fine emery paper ; and finally polished with jeweller 's .
An apparently perfect mirror was thus obtained ; but , though variations in the method of polishing were , there invariably appeared , on to incandescence , a conspicuous red film , which quite changed the character of the radiation .
Recrystallisation ( distinct from the above filming ) also took place on heating .
It was finally found that the film , due presumably to particles of polishing material , could be permanently removed by ) eated treatment of the surface with borax at a temperature near the melting point of gold .
Another method of obtaining a clear solid gold surface Yould be to allow the liquid with a clear surface to solidify .
Usually when this is done , however , the qurface , though possessing a brilliant lustre , is uneven , to contraction on solidification , crystallisation , etc. ; and hence reflects from the furnace walls .
By slow cooling , however , an area of the surface can sometimes be got free from this unevenness , and so lowing only with its own blue elnitted light .
One series of measurements , described below , was made on such a surface a few degrees below the melting 2 .
The inlportance of accuracy in temperature is by the following consideration .
For a full radiator , to Wien 's law of spectral energy distribution , Mr. Stubs and Dr. Prideaux .
Emissivity of [ June 21 , where is the emissivity , and are natural constants , is the wavein is the absolute temperature .
Hence , by logarithmic differentiation , Thus , since abont 14,450 , we have for orange , where and for absolute temperature 1337o ( melting point of gold ) , Thus , to an increase of temperature of 1o C. colresponds a -per-cent .
increase in radiation , a difference which can be detected by careful measure- ment .
Special care is therefore necessary in measuring temperature .
In measuring the temperature of the " " black body one of the thermocouples protruded slantwise into the bottom of the radiating hole , and the other was completely enclosed in the graphite , to the same depth as , and adjacent to , the hole .
The former always indicated about C. lower than the latter , and was taken ( probably with very little error ) as giving the true of the radiating surface .
The temperature of the gold was measured by means of the same two thermocouples , which dipped into the liquid gold on either side of the field of observation , and in the case of the solid were similarly fitted into holes previously bored to receive them .
Owing to the shallowness of the gold ( 6 mm. ) and consequent loss of heat by conduction along the thermocouple wires and tube , the temperature indicated was always too low .
In order to determine the true temperature , a careful reading of the apparent temperature when the gold was ( visibly ) at its ting point was taken .
Thus in one case the thermocouples indicated and respectively when the gold was melting ; in other cases the difference between true and observed temperatures was greater .
It was then assumed that within the of investigation the difference between true and observed temperatures remained constant ; and a correction was accordingly added to the latter to obtain the former .
This method in all probability gave when near the melting point a result correct at least to one or two degrees ; and it is significant that even at temperatures over 10 above the melting point , the two thermocouples , whose readings were corrected independently , gave ' true temperatures by only , though " " apparent temperatures\ldquo ; were apart .
The authors consider that the uncertainty in the temperature of the gold due to the above circumstances would never exceed two or three degrees , and is probably less in most cases .
1912 .
] Solid and Liquid Gold at High Temperatures .
To ensure the highest accuracy in measuring the E.M.F. of the couples , the potentiometer was calibrated ; and the working standard cell was repeatedly compared with a certified standard .
There were , however , two sources of error which gave considerable trouble .
The first was a leak from the circuit to the potentiometer , and thence to earth , causing irregular fluctuations in the E.M.F. This was only overcome by thorough insulation of every part of the measuring apparatus , including the accumulators used with the potentiometer .
The second was a variable thermal E.M.F. originating in the poterltiometer , and usually ranging from to 40 microvolts .
It was attempted to correct for this by its magnitude from time to time , and applying a correction to the apparent E.M.F. of the thermocouples .
3 .
The constancy of the spectro-photometer and its comparison lamp is highly important , and the authors took care to ensure it .
Experiment showed that , in the red , e.g. , a l-per-cent .
variation in the produced 9-per-cent .
variation in the light emitted by the comparison lamp .
It was therefore desirable to regulate the current with extreme accuracy .
A precision voltmeter , to regulate the voltage on the lamp terminals , was not a success , as the pressure contact of the lamp in its socket was variable , causing a variation in the resistance of the circuit .
A Weston ammeter in series was then tried , and actually used in some of the earlier measurements .
It was not , however , sufficiently delicate , as it was found to vary in its indications with time of use , temperature of , etc. Finally , the precision voltmeter was crain used , this time however as an ammeter , by the fall of potential between the ends of a fixed low resistance in the lamp circuit .
This method gave perfectly satisfactory results ; the indications of the voltmeter were compared with a standard cell by means of the potentiometer , and found on different days and with different room temperatures not to vary appreciably .
The current the lamp could be kept constant to within per cent. The -volt lamp was run on about volts latter part of the time on still less ) , so that would be very slow .
In order , however , to detect a possible ageing , or other of the optical parts of the spectrophotometer , the instrument was checked against a standard Harcourb 10 .
pentane lamp several times dnring the experiments , and its indications found to show a satisfactory constancy .
In the brighter parts of the spectrum , the mean of 10 readings ( that being the number usually taken at each ) was reproducible to a tenth of a degree .
But if be the the of setting of the analysing nicol of the Mr. Stubs and Dr. Prideaux .
ssivity of [ June 21 , spectro-photometer , the intensity of the field under observation is proportional to ; thus since a change of in the reading corresponds to a per cent. change in radiation .
Taking as , say , , the above has the value per cent. , ) owing that this small change in radiation could be detected .
To sum up , the authors consider that the reatest sources of error lie in the temperature measurement , and ( for the solid Doold ) in the difficulty of obtaining pure surface .
From the considerations set forth above , the values given in Tables I and II below for the ratio would be estimated to be correct to within about 3 per cent. of themselves .
As a matter of fact , an examination of the tables shows that for all except the extreme wave-lengths observed , the average deviation of the individual experimental values from the weighted means given in the last column is about per cent. for the liquid , and per cent. for the solid closer reement than expecced .
esults Since considerations of space make it impossible give the full experimental data from which the results in the following tables are derived , the method adopted in calculating the relative emissivities may be briefly mentioned .
To each series of measurements made on the gold corresponded a series , under as far as possible the same conditions , on the " " black body This served as an additional precaution errors due to change in the comparison lamp , etc. , and gave each of measurements an independent value .
In the tables below to one set , and to a second , , and , to a third , and , and , to a fourth .
The task of measuring the radiation of the gold and " " black body\ldquo ; at precisely the same temperatures was not attempted ; but the ratio of their emissiyities was determined as follows :According to Wien 's equation , which holds for full radiation so long as ( as here ) is less than 3000 , But if be the spectro-photometer where is a constant depending on the comparison lamp and optical parts of the instrument .
Hence or 1912 .
] Solid and Liquid Gold at High ) Measurements of black body\ldquo ; radiation were each time made at two or more diflerent temperatures , and for each wave-length it was found that , determined by the above equation , had a satisfactory constaIJcy , varying by only about two or three per cent. , while the radiation varied several hundred per cent. A weighted mean was taken for the true value of .
If now were the spectro-photometer reading for the radiation of wave-length , and at temperature , the and the relative emissiyity ; and therefore 5 ; and , all the quantities on the right being knowl ] , was determined .
The ving are the summarised results .
To the various series have been assigned as follows in mean value of , in accordance with the considerations of accuracy of temperature measurement , surface condition , and lamp current constancy described above : For liquid gold , ; for solid , .
The bracketed values in Table II are not weighted , as they were vitiated by the presence of film which was more completely removed in the other cases .
The mean temperature at which each series was made is ) at tlJe head of the column .
The results are shown graphically in the curves marked " " relative emissivity , liquid\ldquo ; and " " relative emissivity , solid\ldquo ; in the ralu .
In Table II , the values in column are those obtained for a clear surface naturally crystallised from the liquid , as previously mentioned ; the other values are for an artificial } polished mirror .
The agreement is Mr. Stubs and Dr. Prideaux .
Emissivity of June 21- , Table II.\mdash ; Relative Emi The results show that on passing from the solid to the liquid phase a sharp discontinuity occurs , the relative emissivity increasing in the red and decreasing in the violet .
This result is not in agreement with that of 1912 .
] Liquid Gold at High Ternperatures .
Holborn and who state that no change in emissivity was discernible at the melting point , and that when both phases vere present the emitted light was so uniform that they could only be perceived by shaking the crucible .
The authors , on the contrary , found that solid and liquid differed strikingly in appearance , the solid of a much deeper blue .
This was also shown by a rough spectro-photometric measurement made when both phases were in the field of view ; in the red , the emissivity of the solid was only three-fifths that of the liquid .
Holborn and Henning 's obseryation is difficult to explain ; it may be that there was still a thin layer of liquid on top ( the solid being denser ) ; or that the crystal faces were from the furnace walls ; or that a film of impnrity , which causes errors even when in very small quantity , and which they do not mention any attempt to avoid , was obscuring the true emissivities .
The authors ' result agrees with the observation of Mendenhall and Ingersoll that gold and other metals a marked increase of radiation on .
A difference in optical properties would be expected to accompany the change of state on melting , parallel with a in electrical properties which is known to take place in other metals , and presumably does so in the case of gold .
A study of the change of optical properties and of electrical conductivity at the melting point should , as shown recently by Nieholson , lead to conclusions as to the of number of free electrons in the molecule .
Assuming the truth of Kirchhoff 's law , the results might be expected to show whether the absorptivity of the solid metal had changed in the 1050o range between the melting point and ordinary temperatures .
According to numerous observel .
S , the refiectivity and other optical constants of metals have in the visible spectrum no appreciable temperature coeflicient .
In particular , Koiober , S and have shown this to be so for gold .
Their results were , however , obtained at comparatively low temperatures , up to C. For platinum , the optical properties been shown to remain constant up to or 1500o C. Two measurements of the emissivity of gold in the green and red by Holborn and .
cit. .
Rev 1907 , vol. 25 , 1 ; quoted ' Sci. Abstracts , ' 1907 , No. 1640 . .
cit. S 'Verh .
Deut .
Phys. Ges 1899 , vol. 1 , p. 247 .
'Wied .
Ann 1890 , vol. 39 , p. 481 .
$ 'Wied .
Ann 1896 , vol. 68 , p. 493 .
Rubens , ' Phys. eits 1910 , vol. 11 , p. 139 ; Laue and Martens , ' Phys. Zeits 1907 , vol. 8 , p. 853 .
Mr. Stubs and Dr. Prideaux .
Ernissivity of [ June 21 , Henning*appear to point to a sinlilar conclusion for that metal .
The accuracy of their results has , however , already been shown to be open to question ; and , moreover , Holborn and used coloured glasses instead of monochromatic light in their optical pyrometer .
It may easily be shown that the lack of monochromatism of coloured glasses ( the limits of transpareJlcy of those used in the above research being from and from to respectively ) may give rise to very considerable errors , especially when , as in the case of gold , the ' relative emissivity\ldquo ; varies rapidly with the wave-length see .
Holborn and Henning 's data nJust therefore be regarded as inadequate , and it remains an open question whether at temperatures the optical properties of solid gold undergo change .
The reflectivity of gold has been measured directly by Hagen and Bubens , calculated indirectly from other optical constants by and Tool .
S The various results ether only fairly .
Taking Hagen and directly obtained figures , the absorptivity A is given in terms of the wavelength as follows:\mdash ; 0.500 0.530 0.550 0.156 0.650 0.111 0 .
0.077 These values are shown graphically by the curve marked " " absorptivity , solid in the diagram .
The authors ' curve for the relative emissivity of the solid is seen to be of the same general shape as , but to lie above , Hagen and ' absorptivity curve .
The difference is undoubtedly greater than could be due to experimental errors .
Surface impurity of the solid would hardly account for it , since , apart from the fact that near the melting point the reflecting surface of solid gold was repeatedly treated with borax till no further film could be removed or detected , there is a satisfactory agreement between the values in column for the clear surface of the solid crystallised from the liquid , and those in columns and for the mechanically prepared mirror .
At first sight it would seem , then , that in the wide temperaturerange the absorptivity curve had , as usually the case with coloured nondlic bodies , shifted toward the lon wave-lengths .
But another cit. 'Ann . .
Phys 1902 , vo ] .
8 , p. 1 'Ann . .
Phys 1910 , vol. 31 , p. 1017 .
S 'Phys .
Rev 1910 , vol. 31 , p. 1 .
1912 .
] Solid Liquid Gold at explanation is that the character of the surf changed on heating .
In a polished metal the surface layer must be largely amorphous , and the metal particles almost inevitably mixed with some from the material ; * recrystallisation begins at about , and actually erved to have occurred in the heated solid gold .
It is at least cel.tain that the structure and method of preparation of the surface has a effect on its optical properties , and Drude nlentions that a silver mirror loses its polish when heated , even in a atmosphere .
it still remains an open question whether the absorptivity A has a true temperature coefficient , independent of a change in physical structure of the surface .
Evidently a standard surface condition must be chosen ; that of a natural crystal surface , obtained on solidification of a liquid , ecolnlnends itself .
If large enough flat crystalline surfaces could be obtained , and their at low and emissivity at high telnperatures measured , the question would admit of a solution .
As far as the limits of tempel'ature allowed , no of the relative emissivity of either liquid or solid gold with temperatnre could be discerned .
The high values in the red and yellow in series were due , as already mentioned , to a film which could not be completely removed at the comparatively low temperature of that series .
For the molten metal , the values in series , and , over a temperature of , remain constant within experimental error .
The authors may be permitted to add a note as to the " " spectral energy equation\ldquo ; of gold and similar lnetals .
Some have assumed an equation , similar to the Wien equation , to hold for lletalli radiation , the constants , and being different from those for a and woulddetermine the selectivity of the radiation from the metal .
For platinum Paschen gave , Lummer and rsheim was given as somewhat reater than .
This aspect of selective radiation is , however , neither simple nor satisfactory .
Evidently the quantity concerned is not absolute emissivity , but what has been called the relative emissivity , equal according to Kirchhofl to the absorptivity .
Thus , if denote the absorptivity as a function of wave-length and tempernture , emissivity is given by Tool , , p. 13 .
Tool , .
cit. , p. 14 ; Hagen and Rubens , 'Phil .
Mag 1904 , vol. 1 , p. ; Drude , ' Ann. .
Phys 1890 , vol. 39 , p. 481 .
Burgess , 'Bull .
Bur .
Standards , ' 1905 , vol. 1 , p. 443 ; Coblentz , ibid. , 1909 , vol. 5 , p. 339 , etc. Mr. Stubs and Dr. Prideaux .
Emissivity of [ June 21 , If , as for metals , absorptivity of visible rays does not vary with the temperature , this reduces to In the case of platinum , as it happens , for a considerable portion of the visible spectrum roughly approximates to the form \mdash ; hence Lummer and Pringsheim 's result .
But such a result would not hold for gold and other metals , is obviously of a more complex form .
Even according to the formula for metallic radiation , the supposed valiation of may be shown to be incorrect : for by logarithmic differentiation of the ratio ; which , if is appreciably different from , involves , in conflict with fact , considerable temperature coefficient of absorptivity .
Finally , from a pyrometric point of view it may be of interest to the " " black body\ldquo ; temperatures of solid and liquid gold in terms of their true temperatures , the " " black body\ldquo ; temperature at a given wave-length being that of a full radiator emitting of the same intensity as the gold .
If be the ' black body\ldquo ; temperature , and the true temperature ( on absolute scale ) , the absorptivity or relative emissivity , it may be easily shown that The " " black body\ldquo ; temperatures of solid and liquid gold at the melting point will accordingly be as fiven in the following table:\mdash ; Table III.\mdash ; " " Black body\ldquo ; Teml ) erature of Gold at the Melting oint .
1912 .
] Solid Gold at Temperatnres .
1 .
The emissivity of solid and liquid gold at high teml ) eratures , relative to the emissivity of a full .
at same temperatures , has been measured throughout the visible spectrum .
2 .
A sharp discontinuity in the emissiviuy takes place at the point , the liquid yold emitting more strorrly than the solid in the red and yellow , and less in the extreme blue .
The shape of the relative enlissivity\ldquo ; is quite diffel.ent in the two cases .
3 .
The curve of " " relative emissivity\ldquo ; of solid gold at high temperatures is similar to that of absorptiyity at low tempelatures as determined from reflectivity measurements ; whether it is identical , in which case the temperature coefficient of the absorptivity vould be , could not be absolutely determined , owing to the of stl.ucture which polished surface ooes on 4 .
No temperature coefficient of " " relative emissivity\ldquo ; could be detected for the liquid metal , through a range of over 5 .
" " Black \ldquo ; temperatures of solid and liquid gold at the melting point have been calculated .
6 .
It been shown that the general equation the radiation of a selective radiator is of the form which in the case of and other metals cannot be reduced to the form of Wien 's equation for a full radiator with values of the constants .
The authors desire to acknowledge their reat indebtedness to Prof. .
G. Donnan , for his invaluable assistance and advice givell throughout the course of the research ; to Dr , E. K. Muspratt for a loan which permitted the of platinum wire and gold for the experiments ; and to the Government Grant Research Committee of the Society for a grant which defrayed a portion of the expenses of the research .
VOL. LXXXVII.\mdash ; A.

