Researches on Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
421 for all other individuals not closely related to the individual whose corpuscles were employed for the exhaustion of the serum .
( IST .
B.\#151 ; It is possible that exceptions may be found , but these have not yet been met with except in the case of close blood-relations .
) 8 .
The red blood corpuscles of any individual are thus characterised by a definite individuality of their own , and can be distinguished from those of any other individual of the same species .
Experimental Researches on Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
VI -\#151 ; Some Experiments on Assimilation in the Open Air .
By D. Thoday , M.A. , Junior University Demonstrator in Botany , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Dr. F. F. Blackman , F.R.S. Received March 1 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1910 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE Section I.\#151 ; Introduction ... ... ... * ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 421 IL\#151 ; On the Bate of Assimilation of Carbon Dioxide by Leaves of Helianthus ( mnuus in Bright Sunshine ... ... 422 i. Experiments ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 422 ii .
Discussion of Results ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
430 iii .
Brown and Escomb'es Experiments with H. annuus ... 433 III.\#151 ; Experiments with Catalpa bignonioides ... ... ... ... ... . .
435 IY.\#151 ; On the Bate of Assimilation in Nature , and on the Occurrence of Translocation during the day ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
439 Y.\#151 ; Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 447 Section I.\#151 ; Introduction .
In investigating assimilation under natural conditions , gasometric methods , which involve enclosing leaves , are unsuitable .
The only method which is free from this objection is the half-leaf dry-weight method introduced by Sachs.* Unfortunately , owing to the overlooking of certain grave errors to which this method is liable , most of the earlier work is of uncertain value .
Having , however , made a full investigation into the sources and magnitude of these errors , an account of which was published in an earlier paper , f I have * 'Arbeit , d. Bot. Inst , in Wurzburg , ' III , 1883 , p. 19 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1909 , B , vol , 82 , p. 1 .
VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; B. \gt ; 2 L Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 been able , after introducing appropriate modifications , to use the method with precision , and to obtain results whose degree of approximation to the truth can be justly gauged .
The vexed question of the highest rate of assimilation possible to detached leaves of Helianthus annum in the open air first claimed attention .
Measure-ments of the gain of dry weight by these leaves on bright sunny days ( described in Section II ) have clearly proved that Sachs ' original value was not excessive , and suggest some of the conditions which must be fulfilled if such rapid assimilation is to be possible .
Numbers for the dry-weight gain in have also been determined , and form a valuable contrast with those for Helianthus .
Attention has been paid throughout to the part played by the stomata in regulating the rate of assimilation ; and in Section IY are discussed the connected questions as to how far the numbers obtained with detached leaves represent what is occurring with leaves on the plant , and whether any translocation of the accumulating products of photosynthesis takes place during the day .
Section II.\#151 ; On the Bate of Assimilation of Carbon Dioxide by Leaves of Helianthus annum in Bright Sunshine .
( i ) The experiments described in this section were undertaken with the object of checking Sachs ' experiment with detached leaves of Helianthus annum , in which he obtained the high value 16*5 milligrammes per square decimetre ( 1*648 grammes per square metre ) per hour as the rate of increase of dry weight on a bright sunny day .
Brown* and Morris , f in a similar experiment , found the much smaller rate of increase of 10*0 milligrammes ; and Brown and Escombe , J determining the intake of carbon dioxide by direct measurement , failed to obtain a higher rate of assimilation in their experimental glass cases than was equivalent to a gain of about 5*5 milligrammes of dry substance per square decimetre per hour .
Notwithstanding this lack of confirmation of Sachs ' result , a study of the details of his procedure in this experimentS leaves no ground for assuming that any known kind of error entered to vitiate it seriously .
He guarded against the only source of error which might have made the result far too high , the shrinkage in area of the experimental half-leaves , by floating them * Loc .
cit. , p. 25 .
t * Joum .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1893 , pp. 626\#151 ; 8 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1905 , B , vol. 76 , p. 44 , Table I. S Thoday , D. , loc. cit. , p. 32 .
I 1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and .
on water at the end of the experiment ; it is highly probable that he thereby , approximately eliminated errors from shrinkage .
In the following experiments , it will be observed , leaves which have remained turgid have given results which entirely confirm Sachs ' high value .
Others have shown smaller rates of increase in proportion to their departure from this ideal condition .
Observations with the horn hygroscope* have indicated that the stomatal aperture is at any rate the principal factor in determining the reduction of assimilation .
The experiments were all made with cut leaves .
The method of supplying them \jith water calls for some remark , as much difficulty was met with in keeping them turgid .
Th\#171 ; Treatment of Detached Leaves.\#151 ; Leaves which are really robust , when detached in the early morning , can stand insolation without wilting when the cut leaf-stalk is simply immersed in air-free water .
This procedure sufficed to keep fully turgid three of the five leaves used in Expt. 1 in 1908 .
But in 1909 it was found necessary to supply the less robust leaves that the poor summer produced with water under pressure during insolation .
This was done by fastening the leaves , after removing the greater part of their petioles , with rubber tubing to the short arms of J-tubes .
The joint was made by wrapping the stalk with cotton wool which had been dipped in melted soft wax-mixture , and tightly tying the rubber tube round this with string .
In this way injurious local pressure of the string was avoided .
In Expts .
4 and 5 several leaves were attached to the same reservoir of air-free water , metre above them .
In the first experiment pieces were cut from the control and experimental half-leaves by means of templets .
The experimental half-leaves were marked and their change of dimensions during the experiment measured , and a corresponding correction was made for the change of area which had taken place , f Having thus eliminated the error from change of area there still remains an error from want of identity in respect of dry weight between similar pieces from either side of the midrib of a leaf ( the " asymmetry error " ) .
This is an error inherent in the method .
Its effect on the result varies with the weight of the leaf and the duration of the experiment , and must , therefore , be estimated for each experiment . !
The average and maximum errors to be expected from this source are given above the table .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; August 11 , 1908 .
Five leaves cut 6 A.M. , and put in a dull light .
Experimental half-leaves set up in the open at 10 a.m. ; transferred to the greenhouse at noon because of a storm of wind and rain .
Morning , sunshine intermittent ; afternoon , sunny ; maximum sun temperature , S * See p. 429 .
t Thoday , loc. cit. , p. 37 .
J Ibid. , p. 55 ; Summary , 5 , etc. S Given by a bright , bulb mercury thermometer .
424 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 25 ' C. ; minimum , 18 ' C. Experiment closed at 3 p.m. ; duration , five hours .
Table I.\#151 ; Asymmetry error per sq .
decim .
per hour : average about + 1'6 milligrammes ; maximum , about + 3 milligrammes .
a = control half-leaf ; i = experimental half-leaf .
Leaf .
Area , in sq .
cm .
Dry weight , in grammes .
Estimated percentage change of area of experimental half-leaf .
Corrected dry weight , in grammes .
Increase of dry weight , in grammes .
Gain per hour per sq .
decim .
, in milligrammes .
Condition of leaf during experiment .
% i ( a ) 60 0-2653 !
0 -2653 ( 6 ) 60 0 '3130 + 1-2 0 -3168 0-0515 17-2 Turgid .
2 ( a ) 60 0 *2362 0 -2362 ( b ) 60 0-2744 + 1-2 0 '2777 0 '0415 13-8 99 3 ( a ) 70 0 -2705 0-2705 ( b ) 70 0-3245 + 0-9 0 -3274 0 -0569 16 -3 99 4 ( a ) 40 0 1652 0 -1652 ( b ) 40 0-1832 + 1-0 0 -1850 0 -0198 9-9 Limp .
5 ( a ) 75 0 -3333 0 -3333 ( b ) 75 0 -3753 -7 -7 0-3463 0 -0130 3-5 Wilted .
The average of the rates of increase shown by the turgid leaves is 15-8 milligrammes , which approaches very nearly to Sachs ' result , 16*5 milligrammes .
It is to be noted that the latter was obtained during a period of unbroken sunshine , in the open air ; the conditions under which my experiment was carried out were less favourable and less uniform .
The other two leaves , 4 and 5 , gave much smaller results .
Leaf 4 had been a little limp throughout the experiment , and only recovered its turgor when it was taken into the laboratory .
It showed a rate of increase of 10 milligrammes per square decimetre per hour .
Leaf 5 was quite flaccid throughout the experiment and shrank in area to the extent of about 8 per cent. Its stomata must have closed almost completely soon after it was taken into the open air , and it increased in weight at the relatively small rate of 3'5 milligrammes per square decimetre per hour .
Subsequent sets of experiments all gave similar results .
In these later experiments of 1909 the templet method employed in Expt. 1 was superseded by the stamping method , whereby errors from change of area are completely eliminated* and laborious corrections avoided .
* Thoday , loc. cit. , p. 44 .
1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
This method was not complete in all its details when my earlier paper was written , and must now be described more fully than was possible at that time .
( 1 ) The Stamping Method .
In this method equal areas are marked out at the beginning of the experiment on both the control and the experimental half-leaves , by means of an inked rubber stamp .
Thus the two corresponding areas are comparable , whatever subsequent changes take place in the area of the experimental half-leaf .
The Stamp.\#151 ; I have used stamps of special design cast in rubber in the same way as ordinary endorsing stamps .
Each makes an impression of a rectangle bounded by lines as fine and straight as possible .
Surrounding this rectangle closely is another , bounded by lines about a millimetre in thickness ; the broad ridge which makes this outer impression serves the purpose of relieving the fine inner ridge from pressure , which would otherwise quickly destroy it .
Fig. 1 is a facsimile of an impression made by the smallest stamp which I have used .
The inner rectangle measures roughly 2 cm .
by 5 cm .
Fig. 1 .
Besides this stamp I have used two others , making impressions which measure roughly 4 cm .
by 5 cm .
and 8 cm .
by 5 cm .
respectively .
The Mount.\#151 ; The smallest stamp was mounted on a slip of plate glass , and a cork attached to the other side of the glass as a handle .
The other two were obtained mounted like ordinary endorsing stamps.* Ordinary mounting is fairly satisfactory in practice , even for so large an area as 40 sq .
cm .
; but , for larger areas , it would be advisable to mount the stamp in such a way that the leaf could be clamped within the rectangle to be marked out , before the rubber stamp itself , which would be mounted on a rectangular framework , is brought down upon it .
The Support.\#151 ; ^Below the leaf I use a small rectangular piece of board , not much larger than the stamp , covered with velveteen with a fairly thick pile .
Any veins which project below the leaf sink into this pile , and do not destroy the flatness of the upper surface , which therefore comes closely into contact with every part of the stamp .
The Ink.\#151 ; Ordinary endorsing ink absorbs water from Selianthus leaves , and is therefore unsuitable .
I have used " Ardinco Never-Smear " ink , which will stand a certain amount of rain , though it bleaches somewhat too readily .
Asymmetry tests by this method , made by taking pieces from both halves of the leaves at one and the same time , gave the following results :\#151 ; t * It is advisable to select with care brass mounts with a perfectly plane surface , or to have them specially worked .
+ The number of tests is small , as , owing to unfavourable conditions in the early part of the summer , the supply of suitable leaves was inadequate .
All the best leaves were needed for assimilation experiments .
426 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 With the smallest stamp , differences per square decimetre of \#151 ; 8 , +4 , \#151 ; 14 and -10 milligrammes , or per cent. -1*9 , +1*0 , -3*4 , and -2*2 ; with the 20 cm .
stamp a difference of +16 milligrammes , or + 3*2 per cent , ( and another so great that I rejected it , as obviously due to mistake in weighing or in cutting out the area ) .
The average difference per cent , was \#177 ; 2*3 .
A comparison of this with the results obtained before by the templet method with H. tuberosus* proves that the smallest stamp , measuring only 11T sq .
cm .
, has given very satisfactory results .
Of the following experiments , the data are given in detail only for Expt. 2 , which is interesting as an example of the use of small areas .
In other cases , the rate of increase alone is given for each leaf ; the pieces employed were usually 20 , sometimes 40 sq .
cm .
in area , and in some cases a number of pieces were taken together , so that the total area from each half-leaf added up to 90 sq .
cm .
( Expt. 3 ) .
Experiment 2.\#151 ; July 20 , 1909 .
Four small leaves , collected 6.45 a.m. Each half-leaf stamped at 8.50 a.m. Experimental half-leaves exposed at 9.15 A.M. Experiment closed at 4.15 p.m. ; duration , 7 hours .
Continuous bright sunshine , some haze .
Maximum sun temperature , 27''2 C. Table II.\#151 ; Area cut from each half-leaf , 11*1 sq .
crn.f Asymmetry error per sq .
decim .
per hour : average about +1 milligramme , maximum about +2 milligrammes .
a = control half-leaf ; b = experimental half-leaf .
Leaf .
Dry weight of 11*1 sq .
cm .
, in grammes .
G-ain of dry weight in 7i hours .
Gain per sq .
decim .
per hour , in milligrammes .
Condition of experimental halfleaf .
6 ( a ) 0*0340 ( A ) 0-0472 0 *0132 17 *0 Turgid .
7 ( a ) 0*0356 ( A ) 0*0457 0 *0101 13*0 Turgid , then limp .
8 ( ct ) 0*0300 ( A)0*0361 0*0061 7*9 Limp .
9 ( a ) 0*0306 ( A ) 0*0300 -0*0006 -0*8 Flaccid .
As in the first experiment , the rate of increase varied with the degree of turgidity , and leaves in similar states gave rates which agree closely in both experiments .
The same agreement is to be observed in the other experiments .
In Table VI ( below , p. 430 ) the results are all tabulated for comparison .
* See Thoday , loc. cit. , p. 16 , Table IX .
t The pieces cut after stamping with the stamp reputed to be 10 sq .
cm .
are found to measure 11'08 sq .
cm .
on the average .
1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
427 Experiment 3.\#151 ; July 23,1909 .
Five leaves gathered 5.30 a.m. Experimental halves exposed in the open air 8.30 A.M. , removed to greenhouse at 10 a.m. owing to strong wind .
Experiment closed 3.45 p.m. ; duration , 7\#163 ; hours .
At first bright sun , clouded over gradually , but brightened again to fine sunny afternoon .
Table III.\#151 ; Asymmetry error as in Expt. 2 .
T ~ Bate of increase in milligrammes.* Condition of experimental half-leaf .
10 11\#151 ; 14 17 *1 5 *3 , 4 0 , 4 -3 , 7 -8 Turgid .
Flaccid to Tariable degrees .
# The rate of increase of dry weight is given throughout in milligrammes per square decimetre per hour unless otherwise stated .
Experiment 4.\#151 ; August 6 , 1909 .
Four leaves gathered 7 a.m. Experimental half-leaves set up under water-pressure of about ^ metre , and exposed at 9 a.m. Water-pressure increased to 1^ metre at 9.40 a.m. Set up canvas screen at 2 p.m. Experiment closed 5.10 p.m. ; duration , 8^- hours .
Bright sunshine throughout ; very little wind .
Sun temperature , 27 ' t o 29'*2 C. Two pieces were cut from each half-leaf in the cases of Leaves 15 and 17 , and were dealt with separately .
Each pair of corresponding pieces from control and experimental half-leaves thus afforded a measurement of the rate of increase in the region of the leaf from which they were cut .
Table IV.\#151 ; Asymmetry error : average about + 0*8 milligramme ; maximum about +1*6 milligramme .
Leaf .
Bate of increase in milligrammes .
Condition of experimental half-leaf .
r is , tip \ 15 , middle 15 -5 14 T " 1 Fairly turgid , slightly limp about j mid-day .
16 8-0 Slightly limp , occasionally more limp .
fl7 , tip 8*5 Ditto .
l_ 17 , base * 4*1 Gradually more flaccid till drying .
18 -0-5 Flaccid throughout .
In this experiment none of the leaves remained perfectly turgid throughout the experiment , and none has increased in weight at so high a rate as the turgid leaves of Expts .
2 and 3 .
It was observed that the part of the leaf towards the base and furthest 428 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 from the midrib showed the greatest tendency to flag , while towards the tip the water supply appeared to be much more efficient .
The results for Leaf 17 illustrate this .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; August 7,1909 .
Four leaves gathered 6.20 A.M. , while still dewy .
Experimental half-leaves exposed , under a pressure of 1\#163 ; metre of water , at 7.45 a.m. Canvas screen , transmitting 40 per cent , of the light , put up at 8 a.m. Experiment closed at 3.45 p.m. ; duration , 8 hours .
Bright sunshine throughout ; some haze .
Maximum sun temperature , 27'*8 C. In the case of Leaves 19 and 22 , two pieces were cut from each half-leaf and treated separately as in Expt. 4 .
The stamped areas were in all cases 19*8 sq .
cm .
Table V.\#151 ; Asymmetry errors as in Expt. 2 .
Leaf .
Rate of increase in milligrammes .
Condition of experimental half-leaf .
J 19 , tip 16 '6 1 \ 19 , base 19 *1 y Turgid .
20 18 *6 J 21 9*8 Stiffly turgid .
r 22 , tip \ 22 , base 9-7 10 -5 j* Turgid , then limp .
Leaf 22 was found to have flagged somewhat at 11 A.M. , and from that time till the end of the experiment it remained a little limp , notwithstanding the great head of water under which it was set up .
It showed a corresponding , rather low , rate of increase .
The other three leaves all remained throughout the experiment completely turgid .
The high rates of increase shown by Leaves 19 and 20 are thus in accordance with expectation .
Leaf 21 , on the other hand , showed a rate of increase comparable with that of Leaf 22 .
The result was surprising , as the leaf was observed during the experiment to be very stiffly erect , as if the head of water had freer play through its conducting channels than through those of any other leaf .
Observations which had been made during the experiment with a horn hygroscope of the form described by F. Darwin , * afforded no explanation of the result in question .
Eeadings were taken at intervals of about an hour on both surfaces of each leaf , in the centre of each of the stamped areas .
The average of the readings obtained on the upper and lower sides were as follows\#151 ; Leaf 19 , tip , ff ; base , Leaf 20 , f\#163 ; .
Leaf 21 , Leaf 22 , tip , ; base , * " Observations on Stomata , " ' Phil. Trans./ 1898 , B , vol. 190 .
1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
429 Thus the fully turgid leaves appear to have had their stomata open to approximately the same extent , Leaf 21 showing no difference from the others ; - whereas Leaf 22 had its stomata markedly less open.* The anomalous result with Leaf 21 may be due to an exceptional experimental error , or an unusually high degree of asymmetry ; or it may be that the pressure of the excessively turgid epidermal cells upon the guard cells partially closed the stomata , and that increased evaporation under the head of water , which had freer play in this leaf than in the others , neutralised the effect of this closure upon the hygroscope .
Note on the Use of the Horn Hygroscope.\#151 ; As the observations in connection with this and other experimentst had often to be made out of doors , it was necessary to protect the hygroscope from air currents , which greatly disturb its readings .
The protective mount was made of two parallel slips of glass , such as are used for microscopic preparations , attached to one another by lateral strips of card .
The hygroscope just fitted into the space between the two glass slips and , was affixed to them with shellac .
This arrangement is shown in fig. 2 .
Readings were taken after about 10 seconds .
After that interval a fall was observed , due presumably to the diffusion of water vapour into the partially enclosed air above the leaf , and the consequent decrease in the gradient of humidity .
J The conditions under which the hygroscope is used are variable in the open air , but it is probable that the readings obtained at the same time on different leaves are a true relative indication of the differing conditions of their stomata .
Thus , in leaves which are losing their turgidity , the closing of the stomata is unmistakably revealed .
On the other hand , changes in the readings obtained with the same leaf from hour to hour are sometimes of doubtful significance , for the increasing internal temperature of the leaf , by directly increasing the rate of evaporation , must affect the hygroscope apart from any change in the stomata themselves .
An effect of this nature is observed when readings are taken on a piece of wet blotting paper surmounted by fine wire gauze .
If a series of observations be made first in the shade and then in the sun , the readings are found to increase as the temperature of the evaporating surface rises .
The reverse effect is observed when the sunshine is intercepted .
In the sun , the occurrence of variations of leaf-temperature will make the hygroscope a less delicate indicator of the conditions of the stomata even in Comparing different * The detailed observations show that in the case of this leaf the stomata , more especially those on the lower surface , began to close just after the leaf had begun to flag , at 11 a.m. + I am indebted to Miss M. G. Sykes , Fellow of Newnham College , Cambridge , for many of the hygroscope observations taken in connection with the experiments .
Without her kind assistance the series of observations would necessarily have been far from complete . .
t The readings on the scale of the instrument were roughly degrees of arc with the point of attachment of the horn as centre .
430 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 leaves at the same time ; but , as a consequence of this loss of sensitiveness , any considerable relative change in the readings becomes still more significant .
( ii ) Discussion of the Results obtained with H. annuus .
In the following table the results of all the experiments are collected together .
The leaves have been separated into five classes , according to the degree of turgidity which they exhibited , and the results are so arranged that the rates of increase shown by leaves belonging to the same class iu the different experiments may be compared .
In the last column is given for each class the average rate of increase of all the leaves included in it .
Table YI.\#151 ; All the figures are rates of increase of dry weight in milligrammes per sq .
decimetre per hour .
Condition of leaves .
Exp. 1 .
Exp. 2 .
Exp. 3 .
1 Exp. 4 .
Exp. 5 .
Average rate of increase .
( 1 ) Turgid 17*2 17 *0 17 T 16 '6 16 '9 13 '8 19 *1 16 '3 18 *6 ( 9 '8* ) ( 16 *1 including # ) ( 2 ) Moderately turgid , occa- 13 '0 15 '5 9 '7 12 '5 sionally rather limp 14 T 10 '5 ( 3 ) Limp 9*9 7 *9 8 '0 8-5 8 '5 ( 4 ) Limp to flaccid 5 '3 4 '0 5 '3 4*3 7 '8 ( 5 ) Quite flaccid from begin- 3'5 \#151 ; 0*8 4'1 1 '6 ning of experiment \#151 ; 0 *5 The agreement of these experiments among themselves is very satisfactory .
The fact that the turgid leaves in Expt. 5 have given slightly higher results on the whole than those in Expt. 1 , is , I think , a significant difference which.is to be attributed to the different conditions under which the two experiments were conducted .
Considering such differences in external conditions , and the range of variation possible in the condition of leaves in the same class , a small amount of variation beyond that which is due to asymmetry errors is to be expected in the individual results .
The average rate of increase for the olass is thus the mean of individual rates which vary within fairly narrow limits .
I Sachs , who used large areas from seven leaves , obtained as the rate o increase in the dry weight of detached leaves in continuous sunshine 1910.1 Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
431 16'5 milligrammes per hour .
The very close agreement of this value with the average result for turgid leaves in the Table is Such a high rate of assimilation has always been regarded as remarkable .
Now that it has been confirmed its significance is profound .
For instance , such rapid assimilation is only possible with a high leaf-temperature .
Blackman and Matthaei have shown*}* that for any given temperature there is a maximum rate of assimilation which cannot be exceeded unless the temperature is raised .
If a moderate correction be made for the assimilation of the carbon dioxide formed in respiration , J the total assimilation becomes equivalent to a gain of about 18 milligrammes of dry substance per hour .
Assuming that Blackman and Matthaei 's temperature assimilation curve for Relianthus tuberosusS holds approximately also for H. annmcs , \\ it follows that the minimum temperature is between 23 ' and 24 ' C. The temperature recorded by a bright mercury thermometer in the open during the experiments was usually above this temperature ; and all the available evidenced points to the conclusion that the internal temperature * The fact that at the end of his experiment Sachs had to reject one half-leaf because it had wilted , and thought it advisable to float the others on water , led me to infer that even these had become somewhat limp ; but from the result which he obtained it seems a necessary ; inference that the leaves remained turgid till very near the end of the experiment , and that Sachs stopped the experiment aslsoon as they began to droop .
The result obtained by Brown and Morris , 10'0 milligrammes , is intermediate between those given by leaves in the second and third categories in the table , i.e.y it corresponds to a somewhat limp condition .
t Matthaei , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1904 , B , vol. 197 ; Blackman , F. F. , 'Annals of Botany , ' 1905 , voL 19 ; also Blackman and Matthaei , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1905 , B , vol. 76 .
X See Brown and Escombe , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1905 , B , vol. 76 , p. 69 .
The starch equivalents of the values there given for the respiration of leaves of are , at 19''6 C. , 0'7 milligramme per hour ; at 31'*2 C. , 20 milligrammes per hour .
As in my experiments the leaf-temperature was probably never lower than 20 ' , usually nearer 30 ' , and may well have exceeded 30 ' at times , 1*5 milligramme is a medium estimate Of the average rate of respiration .
S See loc. cit. , 1905 , p. 413 , and fig. 2 on p. 414 .
Blackman and Matthaei there record a rate of assimilation at 22 ' " 3 of 13*1 milligrammes C02 per 50 sq .
cm .
per hour , which is equivalent to 16*1 milligrammes starch per sq .
decimetre .
( On the use of the starch equivalent in calculating the increase of dry weight corresponding to a given intake of COj , see Thoday , loc. cit. , p. 10 .
) || Considering the similar character of the leaves of Helianthus annuus and H. tuberosus it would seem to be a justifiable assumption that , when the supply of carbon dioxide and radiant energy are abundant , their rates of assimilation at any given temperature will be approximately identical .
Cf .
the curves given by Blackman and Matthaei for such different leaves as H. tuberosus and Cherry Laurel , loc. cit. , p. 414 .
IT Direct experimental evidence of such differences of temperature between leaves and their surroundings , especially when exposed to sunlight , has been given by Blackman 432 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 , of the leaves themselves is several degrees higher still .
Where the thermometer recorded temperatures as low as 20 ' ( after the canvas screen was first put up , in Expt. 5 ) , or 21\#151 ; 22 ' ( as in the cloudy intervals during Expt. 3 ) , the leaf temperature was probably slightly higher than this ; although , considering the exceptionally rapid transpiration of this leaf , it is questionable whether it reached the minimal temperature .
Thus at times the rate of assimilation may have been less than the average : if so , it must also at times have been more than the average .
--dB Still Higher Rate of Assimilation Possible.\#151 ; This suggestion is made probable by observations which were made with the horn hygroscope .
These show considerable variations during an experiment lasting several hours .
On the whole , the readings increase gradually towards noon , reaching a maximum about that time .
They then remain more or less constant for one or two hours , and afterwards gradually fall .
Although the exact interpretation of the individual readings is open to doubt , yet as a whole they clearly support the general conclusion that the condition of the stomata is not uniform over so many hours .
If , as we have assumed to be generally the case , the factor which limits assimilation is , throughout , the supply of carbon dioxide , it follows that the rate of assimilation must vary during the experiment .
The rate of increase may , then , be even higher than 18 milligrammes per hour .
The maximum rate cannot be accurately estimated , but we may safely conclude that it is above 20 milligrammes .
This being so , a minimal temperature as high as 25 ' C. may sometimes be required for the leaf to make full use of the supply of carbon dioxide which its widely opened stomata make possible .
The need for such high temperatures suggests that , even in ordinary air , temperature may be more often than has been suspected the factor limiting assimilation .
Such a state of things might occur , for instance , on a bright cold day , unless the low temperature prevent the stomata from opening to their fullest extent notwithstanding bright illumination , and thus limit the rate of assimilation indirectly .
The Waste of Photosynthetic Radiation.\#151 ; Blackman and Matthaei* have calculated the proportion of the energy of sunlight , available for assimilation , which is actually used by leaves under various external conditions , natural and experimental .
For Helianthus annuus they estimated the waste of energy in ordinary air and Matthaei ( loc. cit. , 1905 ) and by A. M. Smith ( " On the Internal Temperature of Leaves in Tropical Insolation , " ' Ann. Roy .
Bot. Gard .
, Peradeniya , ' 1909 , vol. 4 ) .
** Loc .
cit. , p. 455 .
1910.1 Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
from the rate of increase found by Brown and Morris ( 10 milligrammes per hour per square decimetre ) , as it appeared at the time to be a safer value than that of Sachs .
It now becomes of interest to recalculate this waste from the much higher rate of increase which has now been established .
Blackman and Matthaei estimated the total radiation available on a representative sunny day as sufficient for the assimilation of 53 milligrammes of COa per hour per 50 sq .
cm .
of leaf surface .
This is equivalent to the formation of 65 milligrammes of starch per square decimetre per hour .
An increase of dry weight of 18 milligrammes per hour is about 30 per cent , of this possible 65 milligrammes , and there is thus a waste of about 70 per cent , of the energy which could be utilised ; whereas Brown and Morris ' figure represents a waste of over 80 per cent. Since there is some evidence for still higher rates of assimilation the waste may be at times reduced to 65 per cent , or less .
( iii ) Brown and Escombe s Experiments on Leaves of H. annuus.* The results which Brown and Escombe obtained with leaves of H. annuus enclosed in their experimental case are almost of a lower order of magnitude than those described here .
The highest rate of assimilation which they observed corresponds to an increase in dry weight of 5*5 milligrammes per square decimetre per hour .
This must be regarded as demonstrating that the conditions holding in their experiments were widely different from those occurring in the open air .
In the first place they found it impossible to carry out experiments successfully in full sunshine as the temperature was injuriously high .
The resultant gaseous exchanges were reduced practically to nil , owing partly to the increased intensity of respiration , partly perhaps to the reduction of assimilation by the injurious action of the high temperature .
On the other hand , in their experiments in moderated illumination Brown and Escombe considered that the leaves were at no disadvantage compared with leaves under natural conditions ; for they found that the intensity of the illumination under their canvas screen in sunlight was greatly in excess of the capacity of leaves of Tropceolum for assimilation in ordinary air .
That they were justified in generalising , from experiments with a single species , as to the sufficiency of the supply of energy for the rates of assimilation with which they were dealing , follows from Blackman and Matthaei 's demonstration that experiments with leaves as different as those of Cherry * Loc .
tit .
, Table I. 434 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 Laurel and Helianthus tuberosus give concordant results for the photosynthetic value of a given intensity of light .
In other words , " the same amount of C03 is reduced in both plants by the same intensity of light."* Brown and Escombe 's screen , then , permitted in full sunlight much more light to pass than was required for the highest rate of assimilation which they observed , !
and their low values are not to be explained as due to the limiting of assimilation directly by the supply of energy .
Light , however , influences the rate of assimilation in nature indirectly through the stomata , and in this respect to reduce the intensity of the illumination is to run the risk of putting the leaf at a disadvantage .
DarwinJ has shown how sensitive stomata are to changes in the intensity of the light .
In one experiment he shaded a leaf of growing in bright diffused light , with thick netting , and found that in less than an hour the horn hygroscope gave a reading only one-half of that which it had given before , while on an unshaded control leaf the reading remained practically constant .
He also observed that on a dark wet day in August as well as on dark winter days many leaves gave zero readings with the horn hygroscope .
I have made one assimilation experiment with H. annum on a dull rainy day in August , 1909 .
The few hygroscope observations which could be made during the experiment were in agreement with these results which Darwin obtained with greenhouse plants , the readings being low , though not zero .
The values obtained for the rate of assimilation were also very low , lying between 1 and 2 milligrammes ; but exposure to rain had made the stamped rectangles very faint and the results are therefore not fully trustworthy .
Although this evidence deals with light of low intensity , the fact that the width of the stomatal openings and the rate of assimilation are very small suggests that some direct relation to the intensity of light may exist through a considerable range of intensity .
Assuming that such is the explanation of Brown and Escombe 's low results it follows that even bright diffuse light , to which their leaves were exposed , is not sufficient to bring about full opening of the stomata .
Relation of the Stomata to Illumination.\#151 ; What are the conditions necessary to induce the stomata to open widely is a question which cannot fully be answered , but there are some further facts which may bear on it .
* Blackman and Matthaei , loc. tit .
, p. 445 .
+ Calculating from their Expt. 3 with Tropceolum majus , after introducing an appropriate correction for respiration ( from Blackman and Matthaei , loc. cit. , p. 446 ) , the full illumination possible under this screen was sufficient for the formation of 10 milligrammes dry substance per hour .
Their highest rate of assimilation was equivalent to about 5*5 milligrammes .
f Loc .
cit. , pp. 573\#151 ; 4 .
1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
435 In my Expt. 5 the leaves were shaded from the full force of the sun 's rays by a screen of coarse canvas which allowed only 40 per cent , of the light to pass .
The high rate of assimilation was nevertheless maintained , showing that the stomata were fully open .
The photosynthetic value of diffuse light may often be approached , sometimes even exceeded , by that of the light which passes through this screen in full sunshine .
For instance , Blackman and Matthaei , in discussing the waste of available energy in nature , take as an example of moderate intensities of illumination on a sunny day a case in which the diffuse light alone allowed of 32 per cent , as much assimilation as the whole of the available radiation .
Yet Brown and Escombe , exposing the leaf to a diffuse light from a northern sky , observed a rate of assimilation less than one-third of that which was given by the turgid leaves under my canvas screen .
Assuming that Brown and Escombe 's leaves were also fully turgid , it seems to follow that some quality of the light other than its photosynthetic value induced the stomata to open more widely in my experiment .
This factor may possibly be the greater preponderance of heat rays in the direct sunshine , and the consequent raising of the leaf-temperature .
Brown and Morris ' experiment on a dull day gave as the rate of increase of dry weight 9'8 milligrammes .
This is a little more than half the rate reached in full sunlight .
If the result is not excessive owing to shrinkage errors the diffuse light must have been bright compared with that available during my experiment on a dull day , mentioned above , notwithstanding the fact that the very low result in the latter case is partly to be explained by the blocking of the upper stomata by the rain .
Therefore , also , in this experiment of Brown and Morris , the photosynthetie value of the illumination may have been nearly equal to that under my canvas screen ; * if so , some other quality of the radiation must again account for the great difference in the rate of assimilation .
The possibility of leaf-temperature and intense illumination affecting the stomata has received little attention hitherto .
Whether the suggestion here made can be substantiated remains to be seen , but one thing seems clear , that the stomata of H. annuus do not open fully in even bright diffuse light .
Section III.\#151 ; Experiments with Catalan bignonioides .
Helianthus annuus is probably exceptional , even among herbaceous plants , in its high rate of assimilation .
Other rapidly growing plants , such as * Cf .
high maximum rate of assimilation during dull spell , Blackman and Mattliaei , loc. cit. , p. 442 , Expt. 16 .
Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. l Table VII .
Leaf .
Rate of increase , in milligrammes .
Average of hygroscope readings .
Experimental data .
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 8*4 0-4 2- 4 0*6 3 0 8-3 10*2 3- 7 3*8 2-5 12 *9 7-2 Experii ] 31 31 35 25 33 36 33 35 38 38 40 26 aent 6 .
August 4 , 1909 : detached leaves .
Cut , 7.30 a.m. Exposed in open from 11 A.M. till 5.15 P.M. ( 64 hours ) .
Maximum sun temperature , 27 ' *8 C. Bright sunshine , with rare clouds ; breezy .
Stamping method : Leaves 1\#151 ; 7 , 40 sq .
cm .
; asymmetry error , average \#177 ; 2 *0 milligrammes , maximum \#177 ; 4 milligrammes .
Leaves 8\#151 ; 12 , 20 sq .
cm .
; asymmetry error , average \#177 ; 3 *5 milligrammes , maximum \#177 ; 7 milligrammes .
Average 5*3 33 Probable asymmetry error dbO ^milligramme .
Experiment 7 .
July 6 , 1908 : detached leaves .
Cut , 7 a.m. Exposed in greenhouse from 13 6-4 69* 10.20 a.m. till 4.30 p.m. ( 6 hrs .
10 mins .
) .
14 8-6 54 Cloudy , clearing to bright sunshine .
15 -0-7 51 Maximum sun temperature , 32 ' C. 16 4*6 44 Templet method : 40 or 50 sq .
cm .
Correc- 17 3'7 39 tion for shrinkage by marking leaves.f 18 -1 5 23 Asymmetry error , average db2#5 milligrammes , maximum \#177 ; 4 milligrammes .
Average 3 5 47 Probable asymmetry error \#177 ; 1 milligramme .
Experiment 8 .
July 3 , 1908 : attached leaves .
19 5*4 44* 7 A.M. to 3 p.m. ( 8 hours ) .
Shade tempera20 2*6 36 ture , 22\#151 ; 23 ' C. Continuous sunshine .
21 -0-4 36 Templet method : 40 or 50 sq .
cm .
Correc22 6*7 32 tion for shrinkage by marking leaves.f 23 2-8 29 Asymmetry error , average =b 2 milligrammes , maximum d= 3 milligrammes .
Average 3*4 85 Probable asymmetry error \#177 ; 1 milligramme .
* Different hygroscopes were used in the three experiments , so that the readings are only comparable within a single experiment .
f See p. 423 and Thoday , loc. cit.y pp. 23 and 37 .
1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
Cucurbita , * may prove to be close rivals of and Weber 's results]* suggest that Micinus communis and majus are not far behind .
Catalpa , on the other hand , is a tree , and although like it is comparatively large-leaved and grows fairly rapidly , its leaves have stomata only on their lower surface , and therefore cannot be expected to show such high rates of assimilation .
It is not surprising , therefore , that in the following experiments the highest rate of assimilation is far below corresponding rates for Helianthus obtained in the experiments described in Section II .
The results given by individual leaves of Catalpa in the same experiment do not show the same agreement as was found with ; instead they vary within very wide limits , even when , as in Expt. 6 , the apparent condition of the different leaves was remarkably uniform .
This is chiefly due to the high degree of asymmetry in respect of dry weight per unit area shown by the leaves of this plant .
The following asymmetry tests by the stamping method form the basis of the asymmetry error estimated for Expt. 6 , in which that method was used:\#151 ; Area taken , 11*1 sq .
cm.f Differences found , milligrammes per sq .
dec ... .
+21 , +34 , +26 ; average , \#177 ; 27 .
Percent ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
+5*1 , +8 , +6*7 ; average , \#177 ; 6*4 .
Area , 19*8 sq .
cm .
Differences found , milligrammes per sq .
dec ... .
\#151 ; 18 , \#151 ; 43 , +3 , +33 , +14 , \#151 ; 13 ; average , \#177 ; 21 .
Percent .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... \#151 ; 4*3 , \#151 ; 11*2 , +0*7 , +5*7 , +2'2 , \#151 ; 3*1 ; average , +4*5 .
Area , 38*1 sq .
cm .
Differences found , milligrammes per sq .
dec ... .
+25*6 , +8*3 , \#151 ; 1*7 , +21*6 , \#151 ; 2*5 ; average , \#177 ; 11*8 .
Percent .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... +4*6 , +1 , \#151 ; 0*4 , +4*4 , \#151 ; 0*5 ; average , \#177 ; 2*2 .
* Cf .
Sachs ' results for attached leaves of Cucurbita and Helianthus , loc. cit. t " Ueber specifische Assimilationsenergie , " 'Aj*b .
d. Bot. Inst. Wurzburg , ' vol. 2 , p. 346 .
See Sachs , 'Lectures on the Physiology of Plants , ' 1887 , p. 313 .
X These results are , on the whole , comparable with those previously obtained by the templet method ( Thoday , loc. cit. , p. 18 ; cf. also Brown and Escombe , loc. cit. , p. 60 ) .
One point of importance arises from them .
The results obtained from the 10 sq .
cm .
stamp between the main ribs show greater disparity between the weights of correspond -ing pieces from the .
two halves of leaves than do the results with larger pieces in which ribs were included .
This I attribute to the irregular distribution of minor outstanding veins , which cannot be avoided even in selecting very small areas .
It also appears that pieces 40 sq .
cm .
in area give better results than 20 sq .
cm .
pieces .
In assimilation .experiments with Catalpa the smallest stamp was discarded , and the largest was used wherever possible .
VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; B. 2 M 438 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 , These differences have , of course , to be divided by the number of hours of insolation to find their effect upon the observed rate of increase of dry weight .
The corresponding data for Expts .
7 and 8 were calculated from the results of asymmetry tests by the templet method given in the earlier paper.* It will be observed that the maximum asymmetry error would account for practically the whole range of variation among the individual results .
For instance , in Expt. 6 , Leaves 8 to 12 , the maximum error of 7 milligrammes on either side of the average rate would give \#151 ; 1*7 milligrammes and +12*3 milligrammes .
The considerable variations , however , in the hygroscope readings on the different leaves indicate that the true rate of assimilation itself varied from leaf to leaf , so that part of the variation in the results is to be accounted for in this way .
This is true , even in Expt. 6 , where almost all the leaves preserved a uniformly turgid appearance throughout the time during which the experiment lasted.^ Catalpa , however , is unlike Helianthus , in that it is not possible to gauge accurately the condition of the stomata , nor even the turgidity of a leaf , from its external appearance ; for loss of turgidity is not at first accompanied by readily visible symptoms .
The hygroscope readings which were made at intervals on each leaf are therefore of the greater value .
A comparison between Expts .
6 and 7 shows that when signs of flaccidity do appear the effect on the assimilation is marked .
In Expt. 6 , corresponding with the uniformly turgid appearance of the leaves , the average rate of assimilation was 5'3 + 07 milligrammes per hour ; whereas in Expt. 7 , in which several of the leaves became flaccid , the much lower average rate , 3-5 +1*0 milligrammes , was found .
Taking into account the variations indicated by the hygroscope readings , greater rates of increase than 5-3 milligrammes per hour are to be expected in fully turgid leaves .
The rate of increase for Leaf 11 , with an average hygroscope reading of 40 , should be about 6'4 + 0*9 milligrammes per hour .
These figures may be compared with Brown and Escombe 's highest value , obtained during four hours of intermittent sunshine .
Measuring directly the amount of carbon dioxide absorbed by a detached leaf enclosed in their experimental case , they obtained a rate of assimilation approximately * Loc .
dt .
, p. 18 .
+ The only noteworthy exception was Leaf 12 , which flagged visibly in the afternoon , and for which the average hygroscope reading is correspondingly low .
The low average reading for Leaf 4 is due to its having postponed the opening of its stomata till later than the other leaves .
Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
1910 .
] equivalent to an increase of dry weight of 4'7 milligrammes per hour .
My results , by the dry weight method , are in fair agreement with this gasometrie result , * but indicate more rapid assimilation in continuous sunshine ; and it-may be true for Catalpa , as well as for , that before the highestrate of assimilation can be attained the leaves must be exposed to conditions approaching full insolation .
Expt. 7 exhibits within itself the effect of the closure of the stomata in diminishing the rate of assimilation .
In spite of the great irregularities due to asymmetry errors , a general gradation is visible in the rates of increase following the variation in the averages of the hygroscope observations .
The highest rates of increase are shown in the case of leaves with their stomata most widely open .
Calculating from the average result , on the assumption that the hygroscope readings are proportional to the individual rates of assimilation , a closer approximation to the rate of increase for Leaf 13 , with its stomata most widely open , is 5'1 +1*5 milligrammes .
This is close to the average rate in Expt. 6 .
It is to be noted that in Expt. 7 the sky was at first cloudy ; in continuous sunshine yet a higher value would probably have been obtained .
In Expt. 8 the leaves were still on the tree , and the average rate of increase is much lower than in Expt. 6 , although the leaves remained in appearance turgid , and the sunshine was continuous throughout the day .
This difference is , in part , to be explained by less widely open stomata , for Brown and Escombe 's simultaneous experiments with attached and detached leaves , and observations of my own with the horn hygroscope , both show that detached leaves tend to open their stomata more widely than leaves still attached to the tree .
This point will be discussed more fully in the next section .
Section IY.\#151 ; Bemarks on the Bate of Assimilation in Nature ; and on the Occurrence of Translocation During the Day .
In the previous sections it has been shown that very high rates of assimilation are possible to leaves of Helianthus annnus when detached from the plant , and that leaves of Catalpa also may under like conditions assimilate more rapidly than has hitherto been observed .
It therefore \#169 ; becomes of importance to inquire how far the conditions necessary to these high rates are actually realised in nature , i.e. , in leaves which are still upon , the plant .
* Brown and Escombe 's results for Catalpa by the dry weight method do not agree with their gasometric results nor with my dry weight results , but vary up to 16'6 milligrammes per hour ( average for four leaves ) .
This is due , as has already been pointed out ( Joe .
cit. , p. 52 ) , chiefly to error from shrinkage in area , to the possibility of which Brown and Escombe were the first to draw attention .
440 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 It was assumed by Sachs that leaves were in the same condition , in so far as their rate of assimilation was affected , whether on the plant or detached from it .
Thus he regarded the fact that attached leaves of H. annuus showed a much smaller rate of increase of dry weight than detached leaves as due entirely to the translocation of part of the products of photosynthesis from the attached leaves into other parts of the plant .
In support of this view he adduces , from his own results , the concordance of the rate of increase of detached leaves , 16*5 milligrammes per square decimetre per hour , with the value obtained when the rate of translocation from attached leaves at night , 9'6 milligrammes , is added to their rate of increase during the day , 91 milligrammes .
Brown and Escombe* have , however , pointed out that it is not justifiable in the absence of direct experimental evidence to assume that leaves on the plant fix as much carbon dioxide as detached leaves .
Even under identical external conditions of temperature , illumination , humidity , and carbon dioxide content of the air , the condition of the stomata may be different after detachment .
With the object of finding whether such differences of stomatal aperture actually occur they made measurements of the amounts of carbon dioxide diffusing into the leaf during the same time and under the same conditions in two similar leaves of Catalpa , one still on the tree , the other detached .
Two such experiments both showed a considerable excess in favour of the detached leaf .
The inference is that the stomata of the latter were more widely opened .
It is clear that these results establish their contention that the possibility .of such- differences must be considered in comparing the results of -experiments with attached and detached leaves ; but they went further than this : they pointed out that , as they believed , the rate of increase of attached leaves of H. annuus bears a relation to the rate of increase of detached 'leaves comparable with that which they found in Catalpa .
Hence they ^maintained that in the case of Helianthus also the difference is to be ; attributed to the wider opening of the stomata of detached leaves , and denied altogether Sachs ' assumption that translocation and assimilation proceed concurrently .
On the other hand , it must be remembered that , although not fully justified by the particular results to which he applied it , Sachs ' assumption was not purely gratuitous , but was founded upon numerous observations made upon leaves at different hours of the day under varying external .conditions by the iodine starch test .
* Loc .
cit. , p. 51 .
1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
441 Moreover , Brown and Morris ' dry weight experiments with support Sachs rather than Brown and Escombe .
That they should have appeared to harmonise so well with the experiments quoted above was due to a misquotation of the result of one of Brown and Morris ' experiments , in which the attached leaf is quoted as showing an increase of 4'6 milligrammes per square decimetre per hour , * but according to the original only increased by 4'6 milligrammes in nine hours , an amount so small that it was neglected as coming within the errors of experiment.-]* Thus while the detached leaves increased in weight at the rate of 10 milligrammes per hour , the attached leaves showed no increase at all .
There is no reason whatever for supposing that the stomata of all the eight attached leaves were completely closed during the whole period of 12 hours covered by the experiment.* It therefore remains impossible to doubt that a considerable quantity of substances was translocated from the leaves during that period .
In no other way can we adequately account for the lack of accumulation of the products of photosynthesis .
The relation between the stomatal apertures of the attached and detached leaves in this experiment of Brown and Morris is another question , and one which cannot be decided in the absence of the necessary data .
It may not be unprofitable , nevertheless , to consider how far the results of Brown and Escombe 's experiments with Catalpa are likely to be applicable to other leaves .
To do this it is necessary to inquire into the conditions which* produced the differences of stomatal aperture which they found .
The Effect of Detachment from , the Plant upon the Supply of Water to\gt ; Leaves.\#151 ; The difference in the osmotic quality of the water supply has been suggested as a possible factor ; attached leaves receive water charged with* mineral salts from the soil , whereas detached leaves are supplied with distilled water .
S It seems , however , unlikely that the concentration of mineral salts in the sap would ever be great enough to produce an appreciable diminution of turgor in the leaf , or to induce any movement on the part of the stomata .
Of far greater significance is .
the change , accompanying detachment , in the mechanical conditions which govern the water supply .
During vigorous transpiration a considerable negative pressure has been shown to exist in the water channels of the stem , and this means , necessarily that considerable * Brown and Escombe , loc. cit. , p. 50 , Table IV .
t Brown and Morris , loc. cit. , pp. 626\#151 ; 7 .
X The day was " dull " : it is therefore unlikely that transpiration was rapid , and so any large difference of stomatal aperture between attached and detached leave cannot reasonably be assumed .
S Brown and Escombe , loc. cit. 442 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. l resistance must be overcome by the leaf in absorbing water from the conducting tracts immediately below its petiole .
When , on the other hand , the leaf is cut from the stem and the cut end of its petiole immersed in water , that portion of the resistance which was due to tension disappears altogether .
The absorption of water therefore becomes easy , so long as other sources of resistance do not come into play .
In actual experience it is difficult to avoid for long the blocking of the vessels .
Even when the petiole is cut through while immersed in water , air is apt to enter the vessels from the air spaces .
When this does not occur the vessels sooner or later become clogged with mucilaginous substances from the cut cells .
When ordinary water containing air is supplied , air-bubbles are liberated in the water channels and block them completely , especially when the leaf is exposed to the sun .
It appears , then , that ( 1 ) initially , under the most favourable circumstances , detached leaves experience relatively little resistance to the absorption of water , and are therefore likely to open their stomata more widely than leaves still on the plant , where the water supply is obtained with greater difficulty ; but that ( 2 ) sooner or later , owing to the blocking of their water channels , they are likely to close their stomata , and so come to be at a disadvantage compared with attached leaves .
Brown and Escombe 's experiments with Catalpa , already quoted , illustrate the initial phenomenon , and I have obtained confirmatory evidence with leaves of the same plant by means of the horn hygroscope .
Leaves which had been detached since 7 A.M. , and exposed to sunlight since 10.20 A.M. , gave readings at noon ranging between 67 and 58 , whereas attached leaves gave readings between 49 and 53 .
In the afternoon , however , several of the same detached leaves gave very low readings , having begun to lose turgor , thus illustrating the second phenomenon .
The relative duration and importance of these two relations must vary with the nature of the plant and the conditions of experiment .
The initial opening of the stomata will be most marked in the case of trees and in bright sunshine ; it will be less marked or absent on moist dull days , and , with many herbaceous plants , the water supply to leaves on the plant may be abundant enough to allow the stomata , even in sunshine , to open to their widest extent.* Some observations which I have made indicate that this is true for Helianthus annuus .
Two leaves were detached about 9.30 a.m. on September 18 , 1909 , and a * When root pressure reaches as far as the leaves , detachment would reduce the efficiency of the water supply , and might be followed by some reduction of the stomatal apertures .
Such phenomena are especially probable in low herbaceous plants .
1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and .
portion of the stalk of each was at once removed under air-free water .
Parallel readings with the hygroscope made on these and on two similar attached leaves at intervals during several hours of intermittent sunshine showed no differences that could be attributed to detachment .
Also , observations made at the beginning of September , 1909 , on attached leaves gave readings nearly approaching those obtained with the same hygroscope on the attached leaves of Expt. 5 , though the conditions were less favourable .
These observations do not support the assumption that attached leaves of H. annuus are at a disadvantage compared with detached leaves .
I conclude , therefore , that so long as attached leaves of this plant present a fully turgid appearance , they assimilate at an equal rate with turgid detached leaves .
The Occurrence of Translocation.\#151 ; On these grounds , and from a study of the details of Sachs ' experiments with H. annuus , and those of Brown and Morris , it seems to me certain that the differences which have been found between the rates of increase of attached and detached leaves under the same conditions of illumination are due not to any great extent to differences in the stomatal apertures of the leaves , but chiefly to translocation ; and that the rate of translocation may approach the value which Sachs assigned to it .
This conclusion cannot be extended to other leaves without experimental evidence .
In fact , my Expts .
7 and 8 with Cataljpa tell rather against than for the occurrence of translocation there .
Even for H. annuus it must be remembered that the conclusion deals with average results obtained from experiments lasting a number of hours , and leaves quite open the question whether translocation is practically continuous or whether it only begins after a considerable quantity of reserves has been stored up.* Broocks ' Experiments with the Sugar Beet.\ In connection with these questions of stomatal aperture and translocation , some remarkable results obtained by Broocks are well worth attention .
By means of the dry-weight method he carried out some very laborious experiments on leaves of the sugar beet , with the object of investigating the rate of assimilation from hour to hour during the day .
He took the control half* Muller describes an experiment with attached leaves of H. annuus , the results of which show a uniform increase in weight at the rate of about 10 milligrammes per hour , continuing from 7.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. ( 'Jahrb .
f. wiss .
Bot. , ' 1904 , vol. 40 , p. 468 , Expt. 30 ) .
This suggests that translocation is continuous in the case of this leaf , and proceeds concurrently with assimilation .
t Broocks , W. , " Uber tagliche und stiindliche Assimilation einiger Kulturpflanzen , " ' Inaug.-Diss .
, ' Halle , 1892 .
444 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 , leaves at 6 a.m. and the experimental halves in lots of 15 leaves each at 9 a.m. and every succeeding hour till 6 p.m. The correspondence between the results which he obtained on two continuously sunny days is so striking that they deserve consideration , notwithstanding the large errors from shrinkage in area which may be included in them .
As Broocks ' paper , so far as I am aware , has never been published in any scientific journal and is not readily available , I reproduce his results here .
In fig. 3 the results of both the experiments in question are*plotted ; the Fig. 3.\#151 ; Curves showing variation in relative amount of products of photosynthesis present in leaves of sugar beet at different hours of two , continuously sunny days and the nights following them .
Constructed from Broocks ' data .
Ordinates represent excess of dry weight per square decimetre over that at 6 a.m. when experiments were begun .
For explanation of broken line see text .
ordinates represent the total accumulation of dry substance since the beginning of the experiment .
Bropcks followed up each of these two experiments by measurements of the loss of dry weight between 6 p.m. and midnight , and between 6 p.m. and 6 A.M. the next morning .
His results are added as continuations of the same curve .
The broken line represents the results for the first experiment , that of August 18 , after making a deduction for the apparent change of dry weight 1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
445 which would have been observed , apart from true photosynthetic increase , if the leaves had changed in area as much as leaves of Helianthus annuus have been observed to do.* This correction for shrinkage would be extreme , so far as my observations go , as I have not found that leaves of the sugar beet shrink so much as those of HelianthusEven after this large correction for shrinkage the change in the curve is but slight , either in form or in the magnitude of the quantities it represents.^ The chief peculiarity common to both Broocks ' curves strikes the attention at once .
Until noon they indicate a rapid increase of dry weight , but at noon their direction is suddenly reversed , and from that time they represent instead a decrease .
Another interesting feature is the continuity on both days between the curves of diminishing weight in the afternoon and from 6 P.M. to midnight .
The obvious inference is that the same interpretation holds for the entire period of 12 hours and we may conclude that translocation took place at a nearly uniform rate throughout the period in question .
The change in the direction of the curve at noon shows that assimilation practically ceased at that time ; a conclusion which also follows from the interpretation just given of the continuity of the latter part of the curve .
It appears probable that this cessation was due to the closing of the stomata , for no other explanation would account for its suddenness .
This closure might have been brought about by loss of turgor in full insolation .
It appears more probable , however , that it followed upon repletion of the leaf tissues with the products of photosynthesis ; for it will be observed that in neither experiment had the leaves reached their original weight by the next morning , so that by the time they checked their assimilation they had already formed more products than could be translocated before assimilation recommended .
An interesting difference is to be noticed between the falling portions of the two curves .
In the experiment of August 18-19 , the translocation was rapid and uniform till midnight , but by 6 a.m. the weight had increased once more : the morning was bright , the sky clear , and assimilation had begun .
The morning of September 5 , on the other hand , was dull and cold , and the curve shows no sign of rising .
It is also to be observed that in this experiment translocation is less rapid than it had been three weeks earlier , * Thoday , loc. cit. , p. 24 .
+ Cf .
ibid. , p. 34 .
t Similar results are to be found among those described by MUller in ' Jahrb .
f. wiss .
Bot. , ' 1904 , vol. 40 .
See Expt. 10 , p. 454 , Rumex ; Expt. 14 , p. 456 , Rumex ; and Expt. 21 , p. 462 , Verbascum .
446 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. l , and its rate gradually decreases .
This decrease may be due to the fall in temperature which took place during the night .
As a whole , however , the lower rate cannot be explained in this way , as the temperature was rather higher than on August 18-19 .
It is probably to be correlated with the slower growth of the tuberous roots so late in the season or their approaching repletion with stored reserves .
There remains for consideration the question whether translocation began after the closure of the stomata , or whether it was practically continuous so so long as reserves were present to be translocated .
There seems to be little reason for supposing any connection to exist between the closure of stomata , or cessation of assimilation , and the initiation of translocation .
The only evidence which might be taken to bear against the view that translocation takes place during assimilation has reference to the formation of diastase in leaves .
Brown and Morris* have found that diastase is formed in increasing amounts as translocation proceeds in the dark , and they have been able to find no signs of its activity in the starch of actively assimilating leaves .
They suggest , therefore , that no dissolution of starch takes place while starch formation is in progress .
This view is , however , quite consistent with the supposition that translocation of a part of the soluble sugars , which are formed in photosynthesis , takes place at the same time as another part is condensed into starch .
If , as they have suggested , the secretion of diastase is to be regarded as a sort of " starvation phenomenon " which sets in only when the quantity of soluble sugar is diminished , the formation of a superabundance of sugars during assimilation would be sufficient to inhibit diastase secretion , even though translocation were proceeding at the same time .
Indeed , in expressing their views on the periodicity of diastase secretion , Brown and Morris seem to imply the continuity of the translocation of soluble sugars .
Moreover , it must not be forgotten that the products of photosynthesis are not translocated only in the form of sugars , but that proteids also are formed in the leaves .
9 The high rate of assimilation in Broocks ' experiments tells at first sight against concurrent translocation .
Broocks ' results for August 18 indicate , as they stand , an average rate of increase between 6 a.m. and noon of 17 milligrammes per hour per square decimetre .
Introducing a moderate correction i for shrinkage , the value remains still as high as about 14 milligrammes .
If we assume that translocation proceeded during this same period at the same * Loc , cit. 1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
447 rate as during the latter part of the experiment , another 3 or 4 milligrammes must be added , making the total rate 17 or 18 milligrammes .
In the light , however , of the high rate of increase shown by detached leaves of Helianthus annuus this value for the sugar beet is by no means incredible , especially when we consider that the air near the ground is more highly charged with carbon dioxide than is the normal atmosphere ; no doubt is therefore thrown upon the assumption of translocation which was made in obtaining this value .
Other evidence.\#151 ; The same assumption also makes possible the interpretation of some of Muller 's results.* Several of his comparative experiments with Monocotyledons and Dicotyledons appear to indicate that leaves of the former class increase in weight much more rapidly to begin with than leaves of Dicotyledons , continue assimilating at their full capacity for a shorter time , and translocate the products much more slowly .
It appears possible that both the greater rapidity and the shorter duration of the initial increase in Monocotyledons are to be explained by reference to the slow translocation .
If it be assumed that translocation continues side by side with assimilation , the more rapid translocation in Dicotyledons would reduce the net increase in weight more than the slow translocation in Monocotyledons ; and in the latter , ceteris repletion would be reached more quickly.f This slower translocation in Monocotyledons is probably connected with characteristic structural and biological features , such as the relatively small and slowly growing stem , and the long parallel-veined leaves .
It would indeed be strange were the rate of translocation found to be independent of such features .
The whole subject of translocation is one which promises a rich and varied field for research , and calls for the united efforts of physiologist and physiological anatomist in its investigation .
Section Y.\#151 ; Summary .
1 .
In this paper it is proved that in the open air high rates of assimilation occur notwithstanding the small concentration of COa present in the atmosphere .
2a .
In the experiments with Helianthus annuus , which agree very closely among themselves , leaves which remained turgid , and so Tcept their stomata * Loc .
cit. t By these experiments and others in which he forced assimilation with excess of C02 for several days , Muller also concluded that Monocotyledons ( or rather sugar-leaves ) reach their maximum content of photosynthetic products more quickly , but that this maximum is much lower than in Dicotyledons ( starch-leaves ) .
448 Mr. D. Thoday .
Experimental Researches on [ Mar. 1 widely open , shovjed an average net rate of increase of nearly 17 milligrammes per hour in their dry weight per square decimetre .
Thus the result which Sachs obtained in a similar experiment with detached leaves , 16'5 milligrammes is entirely confirmed .
When a moderate allowance is made for assimilation of the OO2 produced in respiration , the photosynthetic products reach a total of about 18 milligrammes per hour .
2b .
The rate of production is not uniform throughout an experiment of seven or eight hours ' duration ; it will , therefore , at times exceed the average rate and may reach more than 20 milligrammes per hour .
2c .
When the stomata allow enough CO2 for this assimilation to diffuse into the leaf , the internal leaf-temperature will probably be the limiting factor unless it exceeds 23 ' to 25 ' C. All the available evidence points to the conclusion that on a bright summer 's day the leaf-temperature is much higher than this ; but the necessity for such high temperatures suggests the possibility that temperature limits the rate of assimilation more frequently than has usually been supposed .
In this connection it would be of increased interest to know exactly how the stomata react to variations in leaf-temperature and illumination .
2d .
The establishing of this high rate of open-air assimilation has the effect of decreasing the estimate of the proportion of available energy which is wasted by leaves of 3 .
annuus on a bright sunny day .
On such a day , so long as they are able to keep their stomata widely open , these leaves utilise about 30 per cent , of the photosynthetic radiation intercepted by them ; so that the waste is about 70 per cent. , and possibly at times still less .
2e .
When leaves of H. annuus lose their turgidity , their rate of assimilation is diminished .
Some diminution occurs even when but a slight degree of limpness is perceptible to the eye or to the touch ; when the leaves are very flaccid , the horn hygroscope shows that their stomata are very little open , and they increase in dry weight very little , if at all .
2f .
That Brown and Escombe observed ho higher rates of assimilation in H. annuus than corresponded to an increase of about 5'5 milligrammes per hour is owing probably to several causes .
In bright sunlight the temperature inside their glass leaf-cases rose unnaturally , if not injuriously , high , and the results of such experiments have little bearing on the question of the^ maximum rate of assimilation possible under natural conditions .
In their experiments in moderate illumination , although the supply of radiant energy was in excess of the amount used in assimilation , it is probable that the j stomata were not fully open .
i The response of the stomata to different intensities of light seems to offerJ 1910 .
] Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
449 the most satisfactory explanation of this : thus very bright diffuse light appears to be insufficient to induce the stomata of H. annuus to open to their full extent .
It is suggested that this depends , not on the photosynthetic value of j the radiation , which may be great , but on some other quality , such as its ; relative poverty in heat rays .
3 .
Compared with Helianthus , Gatalpa bignonioides assimilates at much lower rates , a fact which is correlated with the absence of stomata from the upper surface of its leaves .
Under conditions which enable leaves of Helianthus to increase in dry weight by 17 milligrammes per square decimetre per hour , Catalpa leaves show an increase of 5 or 6 milligrammes per hour .
Experiments with Catalpa , unlike those with Helianthus , have not given i results far above those which Brown and Escombe obtained with the same plant .
Brown and Escombe 's more normal values with this plant indicate that its leaves stand exposure in a glass case better , so that they were able S to carry out an experiment in intermittent sunlight .
In my most successful j experiment , however , the average result for 12 leaves exceeds their highest ' result ; and if differences in the stomatal apertures of different leaves are taken into account , individual leaves must have increased in weight still more rapidly .
4 .
The high results obtained in the experiments with both Helianthus and | Catalpa have been given by leaves detached from the plant .
Whether leaves still attached to the plant assimilate at equally high rates will depend upon the stomata .
The conditions differ in one important respect , since attached leaves have in general to absorb water from the stem against a negative pressure .
After detachment the resistance has no longer to be overcome , and , until the vessels become blocked by air or mucilage , detached leaves might well open their stomata more widely than similar leaves still on the plant .
The magnitude of this effect will vary , however , with different plants , and under different conditions .
The most marked effect would be expected in the case of trees ; but with some , especially herbaceous plants , the water supply might be so abundant that even attached leaves could open their stomata to their widest extent .
Thus Brown and Escombe observed that much more COa diffused into detached leaves of Catalpa than into leaves still upon the tree , but the same phenomenon would not necessarily have been observed with Helianthus .
j The few observations which have been made with the horn hygroscope on j leaves of the latter have not revealed differences in respect of stomatal [ aperture between leaves on and off the plant .
* 5 .
It follows that the lower results obtained by Sachs and by Brown and 450 Miss Tozer and Prof. Sherrington .
Receptors and [ May 18 , Morris with attached than with detached leaves of H. annuus cannot be entirely attributed to less widely opened stomata ; but that part of the products of photosynthesis must have been translocated .
Broocks ' experiments with the sugar-beet have proved that in that plant translocation does proceed during the day .
On two continuously sunny days he found that leaves increased rapidly in dry weight till noon , and then , suddenly ceasing to assimilate , lost weight continuously at a uniform rate till about midnight .
In this case also it seems more reasonable to suppose that in the morning translocation was taking place , though masked by assimilation , rather than that it only began when the leaves stopped assimilating .
I hope myself to obtain more conclusive evidence as to whether assimilation and translocation proceed concurrently .
Now that a satisfactory modification of the dry weight method has been elaborated it is to be expected that this and other similar problems will be successfully attacked .
Receptors and Ajfevents of the T , , and Sixth Cranial Nerves .
By Frances M. Tozer , B.Sc. , and C ; S. Sherrington , D.Sc .
( Received May 18 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1910 .
) The view generally accepted regarding the functions of the third , fourth , and sixth cranial nerve pairs is that they are purely motor .
Certain experiments and observations made by one of us* and published some years ago threw doubt , however , on this belief .
It was then shown that severance of the third or fourth or sixth nerves at origin from the brain produces degeneration of practically all the nerve-fibres of the respective muscles innervated by those nerves and of the receptive endorgans with which those muscles are , as was shown , f plentifully supplied .
Further , on the physiological side it was found ( 1 ) that intracranial severance of both nn .
trigemini in the monkey resulted in no obvious impairment or ataxy of eyeball movements , and ( 2 ) that severance of both * * Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' June , 1894 ; ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 17 , p. 20 ; ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , Feb. , 1897 , vol. 61 , p. 247 ; ibid. , Sept. , 1898 , vol. 64 , p. 120 .
t Sherrington , * Roy .
Soc. Proc./ Feb. , 1897 .

