]\gt ; Sir W. D. Niven .
[ Mar. 22 , first time that the kite has escaped and the trace been decipherable .
In general a steady and uniform wind is associated with steady temperature conditions , but when the temperature at a given height is subject to much fluctuation , so that the meteorograph registers different temperatures each time it passes that height , the wind also is usually variable in direction and velocity , but these latter conditions are not necessarily accompanied by a steep temperature gradient .
The Calculation of rmonics .
By Sir W. D. NIVEN , K.C.B. , V.-P.R.S .
( Received Iarch 22 , \mdash ; Read March 29 , 1906 .
1 .
object of this note is to show how ellipsoidal harmonics of the fourth , fifth , sixth , and seventh rees may be calculated .
Some of the fourth and fifth rees are easily found , depending as they do upon the solution of a quadratic equation .
When , however , the type of the harmonic of the fourth degree is where , if we employ Greek letters for current co-ordinates , and , in order that ?
satisfy Laplace 's equation , the quantities are to be found from , ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) the elimination of leads to a sextic equation in .
Since , however , the roots occur in pairs as in ( l ) and ( 2 ) , if we put , ( 3 ) the equations for and derived from ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) will be of lower rees than the When the substitutions ( 3 ) are made in ( 1 ) the latter becomes , ( 4 ) and equation ( 2 ) will be the same with the sign of 1906 .
] The Calculation of Etlipsoidal rmonics .
Multiplying up in ( 4 ) , arranging in powers of and putting for the sum of the quantities , P2 for their sum taken two and two and for their product , we find .
( 5 ) As this equation is true when is entered for , it follows that .
( 6 ) Hence .
( 7 ) This is a cubic in which when solved leads to the values of corresponding to those of 2 .
To express the cubic in a convenient form let be in ascending order of magnitude and write .
( 8 ) Then will , ( 9 ) and , ( 10 ) Entering these values in ( 7 ) , we obtain .
( 11 ) As the roots of this equation are all real the equation may be solved by Avhe method given in treatises on trigonometry .
By putting , ( 12 ) we obtain , ( 13 ) where , The solution is then where The corresponding expression for the difference of the roots is given by .
( 14 ) The equations ( 12 ) , ( 13 ) , completely determine the values of and they show that there are three harmonics of the type considered .
3 .
Harmonics of the types may be calculated Sir W. D. Niven .
[ Mar. 22 , in similar fashion , but the working being in all respects like that in SS1 , 2 need not be repeated .
Equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) will , of course , be different .
For instance , if we are considering the first term in equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) must be multiplied by 3 , and if we are considering the second and third terms must be multiplied by 3 .
The results for the seven harmonics described above will now be stated in the final forms suitable to the solution of S2 , i.e. , in the forms similar to those expressed by the three ations ( , ( 13 ) , ( 14 ) .
; ; ; ( 27X ) ; ( 27X ) ; ; ( 33X ) ; ; ( 33X ) ; ; ( 33X ) ; ; ( 39X ) ; .
1906 .
] The Calculation of soidal 4 .
The results given in the preceding section exhaust all the cases in which the harmonic has two factors .
We pass on to the harmonic of ixth d with three such factors We have to solve the following set of equations:\mdash ; .
( 15 ) .
( 16 ) .
( 17 ) Following the method of S1 , we now put ( 18 ) Lnd , with these substitutions , equation ( 15 ) becomes .
( 19 ) Or , on multiplying up , .
( 20 ) Similarly , .
( 21 ) The third equation need not be written .
In these equations have the same meanings as in S 1 , except that is now the mean of three 's instead of two .
As the determination of .
, from the equations appears not to be practicable , will be ound in terms of First eliminate from ( 20 ) and ( 21 ) that O. There esults .
( 22 ) will be noticed that is a symmetrical function of , for it is .
This quantity , as it appears frequently in the Nork , will be denoted by Sir W. D. Niven .
hIar .
Combining ( 22 ) with another equation of the same form , with the letters interchanged , we find , ( 23 ) To obtain subtract ( 21 ) from ( 20 ) , ] use of .
There results ) Writing two other similar equations and adding the three we find , 01 removing the factor 3 , .
( 26 The elimination from , ( 24 ) , ( 26 ) of and the product of the difference of may now be made and we obtain .
( 27 This is a biquadratic in , showing that there are four harmonics of the under discussion .
The equation giving must now be found .
It must clearly be'of th , ( 28 where and is to be determined from the condition Now the square of the product on the left is , by a known theorem , equal where are the roots of or , we obtain The of llay be taken , for the roots all lie between and ) , and if they are in ascending order of numerical fnitude , and will be positive and ative .
1906 .
] The of Ellipsoidal Harmonics .
5 .
The harmonics of seventh degree can be determined in a similar manner .
As , however , the expressions are somewhat longer to write , it will sufficient to state the leading subsidiary results for one type in such a that similar relations can be easily found for the other two by interange of letters .
The type chosen is ( A ) 5 ( B ) 5 ( c ) 4 .
From these three results the equation for the sum of the roots and , with he aid of , the equation for the difference of the roots can be eadily formed , as in S4 .
6 .
To verify results proceed as follows : , which is quivalent to equation ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , for instance , one value of being thus , will give a second between and , say ought then to satisfy equation ( 13 ) with zero .
In like manner : we put or will be one root and the other will lie etween and , say , and ought then to atisfy ( 13 ) with unity .
By this means the of the results given 1 S 3 has been tested both when and Further it appears that of the three members of any type of harmonic rith two factors one member has both roots between and nother has both between and , and the third has one root in one ompartment and the other in the other .
Again , with harmonics with three factors one has all three values of between and , a second all etween and and the other two have respectively one in one partment and two in the other .
[ Added March 29 .
Approximations.\mdash ; The solutions boiven above pplicable whether the ellipsoids are prolate or oblate , but in some of the hysical problems in which the harmonics under consideration might be equired , either is nearly equal to or to , and in those cases the exact xpressions would be efully replaced by series in powers of or , being applicable to a prolate and to an oblate ellipsoid .
for instance , the harmonic , we have already found the equation 11 ) , which is suitable to the prolate form .
The corresponding equation for he oblate is most readily obtained by writing The Calculation of Ellvpsoidal rmonics .
in the relation ( 7 ) .
We then obtain To solve this last in series , in powers of , observe that the part of the equation not involving may be written and proceed by successive approximations .
The roots will then be found to be and the corresponding values of , for the differences , ( 30 ) If we compare the equation in with that in , it is clear that if we write instead of and change the signs of the series for , we shall get the values of and the corresponding differences .
This method applies to harmonics of the fifth degree , except that in the cases and , we shall not hnve the same simple relations between the equations in and When we reach the partition line between prolate and oblate ellipsoids , and at this particular point the expressions for the roots are simpler .
]

