I. " On the Source of Free Hydrochloric Acid in the Gastric Juice .
" By Professor E. N. HORSFORD , Cambridge , U. S. A. Communicated by T. GRAIIAM , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1869 .
The long-disputed position of Prout that the gastric juice contains free hydrochloric acid , was at length established by C. Schmidt , who , in an absolute quantitative analysis of the juice , found about twice as much hydrochloric acid as was required to neutralize all the bases presenlt .
The prolonged discussion of this subject ( now since 1823 ) has brought to light , through the researches of Lassaigne , Tiedemann and Gmelin , Berzelius , Blondlot , Claude Bernard , Schwann , and numerous others , the unmistakeable evidence of the presence of lactic acid and of acid phosphates in the gastric juice , which latter might or might not be due to the presence of lactic or hydrochloric acid .
A point of special interest to the chemist and physiologist still remained , and was this : How couldfree hydrochloric acid be secretedfrom the blood , which is an alkaline luid ?
The blood freshly drawn consists of a fluid ( the plasma ) in which there are swimming myriads of exceedingly minute irregularly spheroidal bodies ( the corpuscles ) .
The plasma consists of two bodies , one of which , the fibrine , spontaneously separates from the other , the serum .
The corpuscles are little sacs of delicate animal membrane enclosing a fluid .
This fluid has an acid reaction , and its ash contains a monobasic alkaline phosphate .
The fibrine of the plasma contains , according to Virchow , a glycero-phosphate of lime , though the plasma , as a whole , has an alkaline reaction , and contains in its ash a great measure ( 11 per cent. ) of chloride of sodium .
The moist corpuscles constitute about one-half of the blood .
I assume that in healthy digestion , as a consequence of increased flow of blood to the gastric mucous membrane and of the normal elasticity of the walls of the capillaries , there exists in the membrane a condition which is the equivalent of engorgement .
Under the pressure which attends this condition , the corpuscles in contact with the walls of the capillaries would discharge a portion of their acid contents , which , with the adjacent plasma , would pass through the walls of the capillaries .
This mixture would contain acid phosphates and chlorides .
The mucous membrane of the stomach presents on its inner surface the mouths of numerous microscopic tubes , which , like stockings , are sometimes single blind sacs , or , like gloves , terminate in several blind sacs like the glove fingers .
In the bottoms of these tubes , and along their sides , are several closed spherical sacs or cells , containing other lesser sacs and fluid within .
The tubes , as a whole , dip down into the spongy tissue that underlies the mucous coat , where they are surrounded by the fluid poured from the network of nutritive capillaries , which fluid , as remarked above , contains acid phosphates and chlorides .
Now by pressure and osmosis a portion of this fluid will pass through the walls of the gastric tubes , and the question is : Whether thefluid that goes through will contain free hydrochloric acid ?
The experiments I have made are conclusive on the principal point .
By employing acid phosphate of lime and common salt I had this advantage , that as increased acidity on the one hand is a just inference from increased alkalinity on the other , and as increased alkalinity would be shown by the precipitation of phosphate of lime ( a visible white powder ) I could determine the qualitative fact without the difficulties and delay attending on accurate quantitative analysis of the solutions , before and after the experiments on both sides of the membrane .
I employed an acid phosphate of lime of specific gravity 1l ' 17 , of a constitution of 3(CaO a0 P)+ 2P , 0 with an amount of phosphate of peroxide of iron present as one to twenty-eight of the acid phosphate of lime .
The various other solutions employed were the ordinary laboratory reagents .
On adding ammonia in small quantities to the solution of acid phosphate , with alternate agitation , it required , as might be inferred , several repetitions before the peroxide with its phosphoric acid became a permanent precipitate , and still several more before the precipitate of phosphate of lime became permanent .
In my earlier experiments , in which I employed parchment-paper , I was embarrassed with the presence of sulphate of limle in the precipitated powder ; so that what was at first supposed to be phosphates of lime and iron was found to be in part sulphate of lime .
This sulphate was due to imperfectly washed parchment-paper , which still contained sulphuric acid .
This difficulty overcome , the experiments were made with parchment-paper prepared from German and Swedish filter-paper , as well as with goldbeater 's skin ( animal membrane ) .
I employed acid phosphate of the formula above , with ( each by itself ) chloride of sodium , chloride of ammonium , chloride of potassium , chloride of calcium , and chloride of magnesium .
I also experimented with acetate of potassa and acid phosphate of lime .
With all of these there was obtained the same kind of evidence of increased acidity on one side and of increased alkalinity on the other , to wit , the powder thrown down from the mixture of acid phosphate and chloride .
What successive additions of ammonia had been required to effect , had been accomplished by dialysis .
The same effect took place from a mixture of acid phosphate of soda and chloride of calcium .
It follows from the above , if these experiments fairly represent the case , and from the known composition of the blood , its condition in the walls of the stomach , and the structure of the gastric tubules , that free or uncombined hydrochloric acid must find its way into the bottoms of the gastric tubules , and thence into the cavity of the stomach .
It may be urged that I should show that the acid phosphate pressed from the corpuscles more than neutralizes the alkalinity of the plasma present .
In reply it may be said that I present a condition of things in which there is the kind of physical change required going on , namely , relative augmentation of the corpuscles , under pressure , the concomitant of increased supply of blood to the gastric mucous membrane .
Its degree must be inferred from the effects on the secretions , which I have endeavoured to point out , by conducting an experiment under what I conceive to be essentially like conditions , and obtaining the result due to identical conditions .
The secretion of hydrochloric acid is of course mixed with acid phosphates and alkaline chlorides .
That such a result as I have arrived at would follow experiment might have been predicted from Graham 's researches on dialysis .
Phosphates of lime and soda are colloidal relatively to more crystalloidal hydrochloric acid .
Graham found that bisulphate of potassa , by dialysis , was resolved into two salts or mixtures of greater and lesser acidity than the original bi sulphate .
So he found that acetate of peroxide of iron was resolved by dialysis into hydrated peroxide of iron and free acetic acid .
It is possible and probable that the albuminoid bodies present take part in determining the contrast between colloid and crystalloid bodies .
Graham found that by dialysis he could separate free hydrochloric acid from the gastric juice thrown up in vomiting .
It may be further objected that anatomists are not agreed as to the structure of the corpuscles .
But it will be seen that there is no more required than may be regarded as established .
The corpuscles act in many particulars , if not in all , as if they were membranous sacs more or less distended with fluid .
They may be swollen by immersion in a thinner ( less colloid ) fluid , and reduced by immersion in a more colloid fluid-that is , they are susceptible of endosmosis and exosmosis as membranous sacs would be .
In their ordinary condition as seen under a microscope , they present the appearance of collapsed spherical or oval sacs or cells .
They appear as double concave disks .
In swelling ( by endosmosis ) the lowest part of each concavity is the last to take on the spherical contour , just as it would do if the corpuscles were membranous sacs .
The corpuscles sometimes so collapse ( by exosmosis ) that one-half of the hollow sphere is reversed , while the other half retains its form unchanged , the former sitting like a cup in the latter-a conformation inconceivable on the theory of homogeneity of the corpuscles as a whole .
Crystallizable substances may be extracted from the corpuscles by pressure and by endosmosis .
They must have been in solution in order to crystallization , and solution involves a fluid .
The liquid expressed from the corpuscles has an acid reaction , and contains an organic acid and acid phosphates .
It contains , among other bodies , the haematoidin of Virchow .
The ash of these crystals consists almost wholly of metaphosphates* , which point directly to tribasic phosphoric acid in solution , combined with one atom of fixed base , which is inconceivable unless separated by membrane from the plasma , which is always alkaline .
In fine , whatever other peculiarities the blood-corpuscles may possess , they have the requisites for furnishing acid phosphates in solution under pressure , such as must attend engorgement of the capillaries in the walls of the stomach .
Let us glance at what takes place in all probability as the acid fluid enters the gastric tubules .
They are surrounded by a mixture of hydrochloric acid , acid salts , * neutral salts , and albuminoid bodies .
Dialysis must be repeated , and a stronger acid solution pass into the sacs or cells contained in them .
The sacs swelling by endosmosis , and corroded by the acid , must at length burst , and the liquid contents , together with the disintegrated and partially digested membrane of the sacs , pass out into the stomach , to constitute the gastric juice , the free hydrochloric acid , acid phosphates and chlorides , and the albuminoid bodies and disintegrated tissue ( the pepsine ?
) to act in the liquefaction of food .

