420 ZOOLOGY .
EXTINCT FAUNA .
Observations on the Bone Oaves o Bodrigtjez.\#151 ; Henry , , Naturalist to the " Transit of Venus " Expedition .
I.\#151 ; The Cave Region of Rodriguez .
The cave tract in Bodrignez is situated about the S.W. side of the island , and is of a very curious nature .
We find there 10 or 12 patches of limestone scattered upon the basalt which forms the island ; these patches are of irregular form , and usually terminated by an escarpment of various height , from 3 to 10 or 12 feet , which marks their juncture with the basalt .
On examination , these patches are found to consist of marine coral upheaved with the basalt .
Sometimes the limestone preserves its original structure or grain which it had in life ; sometimes this grain is brought out by weathering , the outer walls or thecae being harder than the rest , and standing out in relief when the rest is denuded away ; sometimes , but more rarely , the septa are visible .
But , as a rule , the limestone is much altered : whether by pressure during or previous to upheaval , or whether by an infiltration of acidulous water with carbonate of lime in solution , I must leave to more able geologists than myself to settle upon an investigation of my colleague , Mr. Balfour 's , collection of rocks ; but the stone is usually rendered very hard and solid , though always very porous .
Sometimes weathering produces a quasi-oolitic grain on the surface .
It is in these coralline limestone patches solely that the caves are situated ; in Bourbon , on the contrary , the only caves were in the igneous rock itself , and appeared to be the effect of rapid cooling .
The caves have been , if not originated , at least much enlarged by water , of which many bear abundant traces , and in the rainy season some are evidently the courses of subterranean streams .
Another proof of the marine origin of the caves is found in the presence therein of several marine shells , as Bleurotoma sp. , 150 yards above the sea , and 2,500 yards from the coast line ; and Terehellum sp. In places where the coral is at its minimum of alteration , perforations were seen in it , which from their slightly oval shape , and gradually increasing diameter , seemed identical with those of the at present common on the reefs in Bodriguez .
I quote in allusion from Sir 0 .
Lyell 's " Principles : " " Perforations of Lithodomi in limestone cliffs , and in the BONE CAVES.\#151 ; HENRY H. SLATER .
" Temple of Serapis at Puteoli , afford conclusive evidence of change in the sea level \#171 ; of coasts in modem times .
" There exists near my camp at the caves a sort of ravine , terminated at each end by a cavern , and having others opening into it .
The terminal caves and precipitous sides at once determined me that this has been a vast cavern , the roof of the greater part of which has fallen in ; this fall has left a sort of ravine with a level bottom surrounded on all sides by precipices , nearly , if not quite , perpendicular , and having a height of from 30 to 90 feet ; the bottom is now covered with earth and full of large trees , the tops of which rise to the level of the cliffs .
Descent can only be effected with ease in two places , where two heaps of limestone blocks rear themselves against the precipices .
There is no reason to believe that water ever accumulates in the caverns opening into this " Gorge , " and in these caves most of my specimens of any value were found , whilst the trees in the Gorge , being the abode of guinea-fowl , supplied my table .
There were , judging from the hollow sound of the coral in various places under my hoots , other caves with no mouths at all , hut I did not judge it needful to open them .
Capt. Wharton , of H.M.S. " Shearwater , " opened one about a mile and a half W.S.W. of the Gorge , and descended by means of a rope , hut nothing was to he seen hut stalactites , nothing like earth on the floor.* II.\#151 ; Bone Earths and Stalagmites .
The cave-earth was always similar in colour to the reddish brown earth found on the basaltic parts of the island , hut differed from it in being generally mixed with a greater or smaller per-eentage of coralline sand , formed from the crumbling of the interior of the cave , or washed in .
The earth itself was probably washed into such caves as were liable to the influx of water ; into the dry caves it seemed to have been blown in in the form of dust , which form it often kept .
Mixed with the cave-earth was a large admixture of land shells , including\#151 ; 1 .
Cyclostoma articulatum , now living in the island abundantly .
2 .
Cyclostoma hcemastoma , much smaller than above , and also living in the island .
3 .
Helixhewsheriana , If inches in diameter across the whorls .
4 .
Bupa sp. , 1 inch in length , and \ inch in diameter .
The two latter are now extinct , and only found in the caves ; there are also a small Bupa\gt ; and two small Bulimi now living in the island , and an Achatina ( extinct ) , which occur in the cave-earth , with remains of a huge lultis , much larger than those now in the island , equalling the species in the Seychelles .
I never met with any human remains , either bones or implements , in the cave-earth .
* I was surprised when I made my preliminary survey of the cave tract in Rodriguez to discover the amount of work already done .
Out of the first 13 caves , I found 12 to bear unmistakeable signs of previous research .
Nevertheless , I deemed it best to dig them over again , a proceeding which elicited a certain number of bones , though it gave no information whatever as to their deposition .
The depth of the bone-earth is very variable ; in some caves we find it with a depth of from six inches to three feet ; in others , however , it varies from four to nine feet in depth .
Below about two feet I never found many hones , which makes me believe that the agency which deposited the bones in the caverns , never operated until the later days of the existence of the Solitaire .
The bones might certainly have decayed , but yet I usually found that the bones which were well covered with earth were in much better preservation than those near or upon the surface , which were usually much decayed .
This makes me think that the Solitaire resorted to the caverns in case of fire in the island , which has been known to have denuded it several times of its trees ; more so , as in several cases I found nearly perfect skeletons , which lay evidently as they died ; this precludes the idea that they were carried there by wild cats .
Again , in the bottom of a cleft near the mouth of a cave , I found the greater part of the skeletons of a male and female Solitaire ; they had clearly fallen in and were unable to extricate themselves , but the bones being but imperfectly covered , many bones were so much decayed as to prevent their removal .
But I could not doubt that they arrived there alive , and if not driven into the neighbouring hole as a shelter under some alarm , what could have allured them there ?
Nor were any bones found in the caves at any distance from the mouths , at least , if there were , they were single , and looked as if they had been washed there .
Land crabs inhabit some of the caves , and may have conveyed the dead Solitaires into the inmost recesses , when decay enabled them to remove portions of the carcases at a time .
Stalagmite of any thickness is uncommon in the caves ; in three caves only did it occur in anything like extensive sheets , but it often occurred in small patches of a yard or so in diameter under some long stalactite .
But in one long cavern , near a fishing station called Patates , there was evidence of there having been rather an extensive system of stalagmite layers .
This cave was nearly a mile in length , and ran downhill , having an elevation of about 200 feet above the sea level at one mouth , and not more than 25 at the other ; moreover , it was clearly occasionally the bed of a stream .
In one place in this cave there was an interesting relic in the shape of a sort of column composed of alternate floors of stalagmite and cave-earth .
It occurred in an angle of the cave where the force of a stream coming down from the higher mouth would just have missed it .
It was about 8 feet in height , and there were three or four layers of stalagmite in it .
At one period , before the streams began to flow through the cave , this system of alternate layers had existed all over the cavern , but had been broken up by the stream , which would wash out the earth , when the stalagmite would fall in .
Evidences of the stream were to be found in the trunks of trees and beds of leaves , with smooth ripple-marked sand in the floor of the caves .

