Statutes of the Royal Society .
f AGE 518 .
All Powers , \amp ; c. , which could not be exercised heretofore but by the President and Council , or seven or more of them , may for the future be exercised by the President and Council , or any five or more of them .
.518 .
For the future , the President may appoint one Printer or more , and one Engraver or more , and authorise him qr them to .
print such Things ( touching or concerning the Royal Society ) as shall be given to him or them in Charge , by the President and Council , or any five or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to be one ) , or by the major Part of such five or more .
They must be first sworn before the President and Council , or any five or more of them .
519 .
General confirmatory Clauses .
520 .
The President and Vice-Presidents are enjoined to take the Oath of Obedience and the Oath of , before the Council , or seven or more of them , previously to their acting .
STATUTES OF THE EOYAL SOCIETY , 1891 .
CHAPTER I. Of the Election and Admission of Fellows .
I. No person shall be proposed , elected , or admitted a Fellow of the Society on the day of the Anniversary Meeting for electing the Council and Officers .
II .
Every Fellow , previously to his proposing a person as a Candidate for Election , shall inform him of the Obligation to be subscribed , of the sum to be paid for admission money , and of the payments to be made to the Society , before he can be admitted a Fellow .
III .
Every such Candidate shall be proposed and recommended by a certificate in writing signed by six or more Fellows , of whom three at least shall certify their recommendation from personal knowledge .
The certificate shall specify the name , rank , profession , qualifications , and usual place of residence of the Candidate ; and being delivered to one of the Secretaries , 'or to the Assistant Secretary , shall be registered , with the date of delivery , in a book to be kept for the purpose , and read at the next ordinary meeting ; and , if so ordered , shall be suspended in some convenient place in the Apartments of the Society until the day of Election .
484 Appendix .
IY .
Any one of Her Majesty 's subjects who is a Prince of the Blood Royal may , nevertheless , be proposed at one of the Ordinary Meetings of the Society by any Fellow , and may be put to the vote for Election on the same day , provided public notice of such proposition shall have been given by the proposer at the preceding Meeting of the Society .
Any Member of Her Majesty 's Privy Council may be proposed at any Ordinary Meeting by means of a certificate prepared in accordance with Statute III .
of this Chapter , no distinction , however , being made between personal and general knowledge , and the fact of the Candidate being a Member of the Privy Council being alone stated as the qualification .
Such certificate , on being allowed by the Society , shall be suspended in some convenient place in the apartments of the Society until the day on which a ballot is taken upon it .
The date proposed for the ballot , which shall not be earlier than the third Ordinary Meeting after that at which the certificate is read , shall be announced at the head of the certificate .
Y. At the first Ordinary Meeting of the Society in March , the names of all Candidates proposed subsequently to the first Meeting in March of the preceding year , including those whose certificates have been resuspended as hereinafter provided , shall be announced by the Secretary from a list arranged in alphabetical order , without reference to the dates of the certificates of the Candidates ; and these certificates shall remain suspended until the day of Election .
YI .
In the first week in April a list shall be printed , containing the names of all the Candidates so announced at the first Meeting in March , arranged in alphabetical order , without reference to the dates of the certificates , together with the names of the Fellows by whom each Candidate is proposed and recommended ; and a copy of such list shall immediately thereafter be sent to every Ordinary Fellow .
YII .
The Council shall select by ballot from such printed list of Candidates a number not exceeding fifteen , to be recommended to the Society for Election ; but no such selection by the Council shall be valid unless eleven Members at least be present and vote , a majority deciding , or in the event of equality the President having a second or casting vote .
YIII .
At the first Ordinary Meeting of the Society in May , the President shall read from the Chair the names of the Candidates whom the Council have selected as most eligible , arranged in alphabetical order ; and after such Meeting , a circular letter shall be forthwith sent to every Fellow , naming the day and hour of Election , and enclosing a printed list of the selected Candidates , with space for such alterations as any Fellow may determine to make in pursuance of Statute X. of this Chapter .
' !
ilM IX .
The election of Ordinary Fellows not included in the privi ' Statutes of the Royal Society .
leged classes referred to in Statute IV .
of this Chapter , shall take place on the first Thursday of June ; unless the Council shall alter the day of Election to any other day in the month of June , in which case due notice of such alteration shall be given to every Ordinary Fellow .
X. On the day of Election two Scrutators shall be nominated by the President , with the approbation of the Society , to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists ; and each Fellow present and voting , shall deliver to one of the Secretaries or Scrutators one of the printed lists mentioned in Statute VIII .
of this Chapter , having erased the name of any Candidate or Candidates for whom he does not vote , and , if he shall have thought fit , having substituted or added the name of any other Candidate or Candidates contained in the printed list sent in pursuance of Statute VI .
of this Chapter .
XI .
One of the Secretaries shall take down the names of the Fellows who vote , and the Scrutators , after examining the lists with the Secretaries , shall report to the President the names of the Candidates who shall have been duly elected in compliance with the Charters , and the President shall announce those names from the Chair .
XII .
Any Candidate announced at the first Ordinary Meeting of the Society in March , as aforesaid , who shall not have been elected , shall , if his proposers , or any one of them , so request in writing , continue a Candidate ; his name shall be placed in alphabetical order with those of the new Candidates to be announced in March following , and his certificate shall be suspended along with those of the new Candidates .
Any additional qualifications of such a Candidate may be set forth in a supplementary certificate to be signed by not fewer than six Fellows .
XIII .
Every person who is elected a Fellow shall appear for his admission on or before the fourth Ordinary Meeting of the Society after the day of his election , or within such further time as shall , for some sufficient cause , be granted by the Council ; otherwise his election shall be void .
XIV .
The admission of any Fellow into the Society shall be at some Ordinary Meeting , in manner and form following , he having first made the payments required by the Statutes .
Immediately after the reading of the Minutes has been concluded , he shall subscribe the Obligation in the Charter-book , and be introduced to the President , who , taking him by the hand , shall say these words : I do , by the authority and in the name of the Royal Society of , for improving natural knowledge , admit you a Fellow thereof .
XV .
The Election , the payments made previous to admission , and the admission of every person into the Society , with the time thereof , shall be recorded in the Journal-book .
480 Appendix .
XVI .
Ho person shall be deemed a Fellow of the Society until he has made the payments required by the Statutes ; nor shall he be entitled to vote at any Election or Meeting of the Society until he shall have been admitted in the manner and form above specified .
XVII .
Persons may be elected into the Society , under there title of Foreign Members , who are neither natives nor inhabitants of Her Majesty 's dominions , and shall be exempted from the operation of Chapters II .
and III .
of these Statutes ; they shall be selected from among men of the greatest eminence for their scientific discoveries and attainments .
XVIII .
The Council shall from time to time , as they shall see fit , pat in nomination persons for Election as Foreign Members , not exceeding , with those already elected , the number of fifty .
XIX .
A book shall be kept in which Members of the Council may enter the names of those men of science whom they suggest as Foreign Members ; each entry shall be signed by the proposer and be accompanied by a short statement of the principal grounds on which the suggestion is made , and shall be valid for three years only .
XX .
When vacancies are to be filled up , a list of the persons so entered shall be sent to each Member of the Council together with notice of the Meeting at which the list will be considered .
At the Meeting thus appointed further entries may be made , and the claims of those men of science whose names have been duly entered in the book shall be considered , and a selection of names shall be made , from among which the Council , at a subsequent Meeting to be then appointed , may make nominations to the Society .
XXI .
At the second Meeting the selection of the Candidates to be nominated shall be by ballot ; when , if two-thirds of the Members of the Council present be in favour of the nomination of any Candidate , his name shall be proposed at the next Ordinary Meeting of the Society , and shall be put to the vote at the following Ordinary Meeting .
CHAPTER II .
Of the Obligation to be Subscribed .
Every person elected a Fellow of the Society shall , before his admission , subscribe the Obligation in the following words :\#151 ; We who have hereunto subscribeddo hereby promise each for himself that we will endeavour to promote the good of the Royal Society of London , for improving natural knowledge , and to pursue the ends for which the same was founded ; that we will be present at the Meetings oj the Society , as often as conveniently we can , especially at the Anniversary Elections , and upon extraordinary occasions ; and that we will observe the Statutes and Orders of the said Society .
Provided , that Statutes of the Royal Society .
487 any of us shall signify to the President under his , that he to withdraw from the Society , he shall he free from this Obligation for the future .
And if any person elected shall refuse to subscribe the said Obligation , the election of that person shall be void .
CHAPTER III .
Of the Payments to he made hy the Fellows to the Society .
I. Evert person elected a Eellow of the Society shall , before he is admitted , pay the sum of ten pounds for admission money , the sum of four potmds for the year of his Election , and the same sum annually in advance so long as he shall continue a Eellow of the Society .
And if any such person shall refuse or fail to pay the said sums , he shall not be admitted , and his Election shall be void : except the said sums be remitted in whole , or in part , by special order of the Council .
Provided always that , except in the case of Eellows elected under Statute IV .
of Chapter I. , the admission fee of each Eellow shall be paid out of the Eee Reduction Eund , and shall not be demanded of the Fellow ; and that , except in the case of Fellows elected under Statute IV .
of Chapter I. , and Fellows elected before January , 1879 , one pound of the annual contribution shall be paid out of the Eee Reduction Fund .
II .
All who have ox may become Fellows of the Society may at any time compound for their annual payments , by paying at once the sum of sixty pounds .
III .
All Annual Contributions shall be considered to be due on the 25th day of March in each year .
Every Fellow of the Society liable to an Annual Payment shall ( previously to the 25th day of March in every year ) bring or send the same to the Treasurer or the Assistant Secretary .
And if any such Fellow , after notice sent by post to his usual address , in May , and again in September , shall fail to pay the same before the first day of October in each year , his name shall be suspended in the public Meeting-room of the Society as being in arrear , and shall continue so suspended until the sum due be paid .
And if any such Fellow shall fail to pay his subscription on or before the first day of November in each year , no satisfactory reason having been assigned to the President and Council for such non-payment , he shall cease to be a Fellow of the Society .
Provided , nevertheless , that on a solicitation for readmission being addressed to the President and Council by an individual so circumstanced , within the space of one year following St. Andrew 's Day , the case of the individual so soliciting shall be stated by the President from the Chair , at one of the Ordinary Meetings of the Society , and the question of his readmission be put to the vote at the next Ordinary Meeting of the Society .
Appendix .
CHAPTER IY .
Of the Death or Eecess of any Fellow .
The Death or Recess of any Fellow of the Society shall he recorded in the Journal-hook of the Society , and the names of such persons announced from the Chair , at the Anniversary Meeting for electing the Council and Officers .
CHAPTER Y. Of the Causes and Form of Ejection .
I. If any Fellow of the Society shall contemptuously or contumaciously disobey the Statutes or Orders of the Society or Council ; or shall , by speaking , writing , or printing , publicly defame the Society ; or advisedly , maliciously , or dishonestly do anything to the damage , detriment , or dishonour thereof , he shall be ejected out of the Society .
II .
Whenever there shall appear to be cause for the ejection of any Fellow out of the Society , the subject shall be laid before the Council ; and if a majority of the Council shall , after due deliberation , determine by ballot to propose to the Society the ejection of the said Fellow , the President shall in that case , at some Ordinary Meeting of the Society , announce from the Chair such determination of the Council ; and at the Ordinary Meeting next q , fter that at which the said announcement has been made , the Society shall proceed to determine the question ; and on its appearing that two-thirds of the Members present have voted for the ejection of the said Fellow , the President shall proceed to cancel his name in the Register , and at the same time pronounce him ejected in these words :\#151 ; I do , by the authority and in the name of the Eoyal Society of , for improving natural knowledge , declare A. B. to be now ejected , and no longer a Fellow thereof .
And the ejection of every such person shall be then recorded in the Journal-book of the Society ; and his name , as ejected , be also read at the next Anniversary Meeting for Elections .
CHAPTER YI .
Of the Flection of the Council and Officers .
I. At the two Ordinary Meetings of the Society next preceding the day of the Anniversary Election , the President shall give notice of the said Election ; and declare how much it imports the good of the Society , that such persons may be chosen into the Council , as are Statutes of the Royal Society .
most likely to attend the Meetings and business of the Council , out of whom there may be made the best choice of a President and other Officers .
II .
Every Fellow of the Society whose residence is known , shall have notice of the Anniversary Meeting for electing the Council and Officers for the year ensuing , by particular summons , which summons shall be sent to the place of residence of such Fellow , a week at the least before the day of Meeting ; and shall be to this effect:\#151 ; These are to give notice that on the day of the Council and Officers of the Royal Society are to he elected for the year ensuing ; at which Election your presence is expected , at of the clock in the precisely .
III .
The Council for the ensuing year , out of which shall be chosen the President , Treasurer , Principal Secretaries , and Foreign Secretary , shall consist of eleven Members of the existing Council , and of ten Fellows who are not Members of the existing Council .
TV .
The President and Council shall , previous to the Anniversary Meeting , nominate , by ballot , eleven Members of the existing Council , and also ten Fellows , not Members of the existing Council , whom they recommend to the Society for Election into the Council for the ensuing year .
The President and Council shall , also , in like manner , nominate by ballot , out of the proposed Council , the persons whom they recommend to the Society for election to the offices of President , Treasurer , Principal Secretaries , and Foreign Secretary for the ensuing year .
V. At the ordinary meeting of the Society preceding the Anniversary Meeting , the names of such persons so recommended for Election as Council and Officers for the ensuing year shall be announced from the Chair .
VI .
Lists , with the names of the Fellows recommended by the President and Council , and having a blank column opposite for such alterations as any Fellow may wish to make , shall be prepared for the use of the Fellows , one week before the day of election .
VII .
Two Scrutators shall be nominated by the President , with the approbation of the Society , to assist the Secretaries in examining 'i the lists .
VIII .
Each Fellow voting , shall deliver his list to one of the Secretaries or Scrutators ; and the name of each Fellow who shall so deliver in his list shall be noted by one of the Secretaries .
IX .
The Scrutators , after examining the lists with the Secretaries , 'shall report to the Society the names of those having the majority of votes for composing the Council , and filling the offices of President , Treasurer , Principal Secretaries , and Foreign Secretary ; the names of which persons shall then be announced from the Chair .
490 Appendix , * X , For electing any Member of the Council , or any Officer to be elected by the Society , upon such vacancies as shall happen in the intervals of the Anniversary Elections , the summons for such Election , and the proceedings in it , shall be after the same manner as is directed for the Anniversary Election .
XI .
Upon any vacancy of the President 's place , occurring in the intervals of the Anniversary Elections , the Treasurer , or , in his absence , one of the Secretaries , shall cause the Council to be summoned for the Election of a new President : and the Council meeting thereupon in the usual place , or any eleven or more of them , shall proceed to the said Election , and not separate until the major part of them shall have agreed upon a. new President .
CHAPTER VII .
Of the President .
I. The business of the President shall be to preside at all the meetings , and regulate all the debates , of the Society , Council , and Committees ; to state and put questions both in the affirmative and negative , according to the sense and intention of the meetings ; to call for reports and accounts from Committees , and others ; to cheek irregularities , and to keep all persons to order ; to summon all Meetings of the Council , and Committee of Papers ; ap.d to execute , or see to the execution of , the Statutes of the Society .
II .
The President shall take precedence of every Fellow of the Society , at their ordinary place of meeting ; and also in all other places , where any number of the Fellows meet as a Society , Council , or Committee .
III .
In the absence of the President , one of the Vice-Presidents shall act as his deputy , and may do , in the absence of the President , the same acts as the President himself could do if present .
CHAPTER VIII .
Of the Treasurer and his Accounts .
I. The Treasurer , or some person appointed by him , shall receive for the use of the Society , all sums of money due or payable to the Society ; and shall pay and disburse all sums due from or payable by the Society ; and shall keep particular Accounts of all such receipts and payments .
II .
Every sum of money payable on account of the Society , exceeding Ten Pounds , shall be paid only by order of the Council ; but payments for rates or taxes , to any amount , may be made by Statutes of the Royal Society .
491 the Treasurer , without any specific order of the Council for that purpose .
III .
All sums of money , which there shall not be present occasion for expending , or otherwise disposing of to the use of the Society , shall be laid out in such Government or other securities as shall be approved of .
and directed by the Council .
IV .
The Treasurer shall keep a yearly account of all such Fellows of the Society as pay the sum appointed as the composition in lieu of annual payments ; and also of those who make the annual payments : and in this account shall be noted the times up to which the annual payments have been made , and the arrears due from each Fellow .
V. The Treasurer shall also keep a book of Cheque Receipts for annual payments , to be filled up with the name of the Fellow paying , the sum paid , and the time for which payment is made ; these Receipts to be signed by the Treasurer , or by the Assistant Secretary receiving the money on the Treasurer 's behalf , who , upon the delivery of the Receipt to the Fellow paying , is to enter upon that part of the Cheque which is left in the Book , the above particulars , and also the day of payment .
VI .
The Treasurer shall demand , or cause to be demanded , all arrears of annual payments , as soon as convenient after the first day of May .
VII .
The Accounts of the Treasurer shall be audited annually , a short time preceding the Anniversary Elections , by a Committee consisting of three Members of the Council , of whom the President or one of the Secretaires to be one ; and of three Fellows of the Society not Members of the Council , who are to be nominated by the President , with the consent of the major part of the Fellows present , given by ballot at one of the three next preceding weekly meetings ; any one or more of the said three Members of the Council , together with any one or more of the said three Fellows , shall be a Quorum of the said Committee ; the Members of the said Committee who are of the Council shall make their Report to the Council held next after such audit , on or before the Anniversary Election ; and the Members of the said Committee who are not of the Council shall make their Report to the Society , upon the Meeting next before the Anniversary Election , or on the day of the said Election .
VIII .
The Treasurer shall have the charge of the Title Deeds of the Society 's Estates , the Policies of Insurance , and Securities .
IX .
As soon after the Audit as may be , and before the Anniversary Meeting , the Treasurer shall cause an abstract of the Society 's Accounts of the preceding year to be printed for the use of the Fellows .
Appendix .
CHAPTER IX .
Of the Secretaries .
I. The Secretaries , or one of them , shall have inspection over the Assistant Secretary ; and shall give the Orders and Directions concerning the entering and writing of all minutes or matters in the Journal-books of the Society or Council , or any other Books of the Society ; and also concerning any orders or other writings for the use and service of the Society .
II .
The Secretaries , or one of them , shall attend all meetings of the Society , Council , and Committee of Papers ; where , when the President has taken the Chair , one of the Secretaries shall read the minutes , orders , and entries of the preceding meeting ; and shall afterwards take minutes of the business and orders of the present meeting , to be entered by the Assistant Secretary in the respective books to which they relate .
III .
At the meetings of the Society , Lists of the Presents made from time to time to the Society shall be laid on the Table , by one of the Secretaries , for the inspection of the Fellows ; and the Thanks of the Society to the Donors shall be proposed from the Chair previously to the reading of the first Paper .
One of the Secretaries shall give notice of any Candidate who stands proposed for election into the Society at that meeting ; and the Secretaries shall read Letters and Papers presented to the Society , in such manner as the President shall direct .
IV .
The Secretaries shall draw up all letters to be written to any persons in the name of the Society or Council ( to be read and approved of in some meeting of either respectively ) , except , for some particular cause or consideration , some other person be appointed by the Society or Council to draw up any such letter .
They shall likewise have the charge ( under the direction of the Committee of Papers ) of printing the Philosophical Transactthe Proceedings , and other publications of the Society .
V. The letters relating to the business of the Society , received during each Session , shall be arranged and kept in the apartments of the Society .
VI .
The duty of the Secretary for Foreign Correspondence shall be to receive and answer all letters from foreign parts relating to the business of the Society , to return thanks for Presents from Foreigners made to the Society , and to forward to persons elected Foreign Members the Diplomas certifying their election into the Society .
Statutes of the Royal Society .
Of the Assistant Secretary .
I. The person who shall be chosen to the office of Assistant Secretary , shall either not be a Fellow of the Society , or , if a Fellow , shall cease to be so , upon his election to and acceptance of that office .
II .
The appointment of a person to the office of Assistant Secretary shall be by the Council , to whom the Officer so appointed shall give security , at the discretion of the Council ; and he shall reside in the Society 's House .
III .
The Assistant Secretary shall be paid for his services , according to the determination of the Council ; and shall not , besides such payments , receive any perquisite or profit whatsoever without the express permission of the President and Council .
He shall be subject to such Rules and Orders as shall from time to time be made or given by the President and Council ; and he shall constantly be in attendance during all meetings of the Society , Council , and Committees .
1Y .
He shall enter all the Minutes in the several Journal-books , and make an Index to every such book : he shall lay before every Council their fair Minute-book : and before every Committee of Papers the Society 's Journal-book , to show that the several entries are fairly made : and he shall have the care of the writing of all Summonses of the Society , Council , and Committees .
Y. He shall , under the direction of the Secretaries , have the charge and custody of the Charter-book , Statute-book , Journal-books of the Society and Council , Register-books , and Letter-books , as also of all Papers and writings belonging to the Society ; all which shall be kept in the House of the Society , that they may be in readiness to be produced at any meetings of the Society or Council , as the case may require , or as shall be ordered by the Society , Council , or President .
YI .
He shall not suffer any person , not being a Fellow of the Society , to read any Journal-book , Record , or Writing , or any part thereof , belonging to the Society ; nor give any copy thereof , nor in any way communicate anything contained therein , to any such person .
YII .
He shall follow the directions which may be given him from time to time by the Treasurer in respect of that part of his duties which relates to the Accounts or Cash Transactions of the Society .
He shall enter in a Book , to be provided by the Treasurer , all such sums as he may receive on account of the Society at the instant of receiving such sums ; and for these sums , so entered by him , he shall be answerable , until he shall have paid them to the Treasurer .
494 Appendix .
yin .
He shall attend the Library at such hours as shall be appointed for him for the accommodation of such Fellows of the Society as shall come to read the printed books or manuscripts , and of any other person who shall be introduced by a Fellow , either personally or by letter .
IX .
He shall mark , with the stamp of the Society , all books accepted or bought by the Society .
CHAPTER XI .
Of the Meetings of the Society .
I. The Session of the Society shall commence on the third Thursday in November , and end on the third Thursday in June .
II .
The ordinary Meetings of the Society shall be on Thursdays weekly ( excepting Christmas , Passion , Easter , and Whitsun weeks , and such other weeks at Christmas and Easter , in each year , as the Council may in the preceding year determine , and also Ascension Day ) , and shall begin at half-past Four o'clock in the Afternoon precisely .
III .
No stranger shall be permitted to be present during the Meeting , unless by invitation of the President , or by his leave or order upon the recommendation of some Fellow .
IV .
The business of the Society in their ordinary Meetings shall be to order , take account , consider , and discourse of philosophical experiments and observations ; to read , hear , and discourse upon letters , reports , and other papers , containing philosophical matters ; as also to view , and discourse upon , rarities of nature and art : and thereupon to consider , what may be deduced from them , or any of them ; and how far they , or any of them , may be improved for use or discovery.* V. No letter , report , or other paper shall be read at any ordinary Meeting unless it be communicated by a Fellow or Foreign Member ; and it shall be the duty of each Fellow or Foreign Member to satisfy himself that any letter , report , or other paper which he may communicate , is suitable to be read before the Society .
VI .
The President shall determine for each Meeting the communications which are to be read , and the order in which they are to be taken .
Every communication duly received , shall , unless otherwise determined by the Committee of Papers , as provided in Statute I. of Chapter XIII .
, be read by one of the Secretaries , either in whole or in part , the title being considered a part , at some convenient ordinary Meeting of the Society , the President having power to invite the author of any communication to give an oral exposi* This is the wording of the Statute as given in the Statutes of 1663 .
Statutes of the Royal Society .
495 tion in place of the reading of the commnnication by one of the Secretaries .
VII .
At the ordinary Meetings nothing relating to the Statutes or management of the Society shall be brought forward or discussed .
VIII .
The Anniversary Meeting for the election of the Council and Officers , and the Annual Meeting for the election of Fellows , shall take place at an hour to be determined by the Council .
CHAPTER XII .
Of Special General Meetings of the Society .
I. The President or Council may at any time call a Special General Meeting of the Society when it may appear to them to bo necessary .
II .
Any six Fellows may , by notice in writing , signed by them , and delivered to one of the Secretaries at an ordinary Meeting of the Society , require a Special General Meeting of the Society to be convened , for the purpose of considering and determining on the matters specified in such requisition , and the Council shall , within one week after such requisition shall have been so delivered , appoint a day for a Special General Meeting accordingly .
III .
One week 's notice of any Special General Meeting shall be given to each Fellow resident in the United Kingdom , and such notice shall state the object of such Meeting .
IV .
At such Meeting no business shall be brought forward except what shall have been so notified .
CHAPTER XIII .
Of the Publication of Payers .
I. The Members of the Council for the time being , shall constitute and be a standing Committee , to be called ** The Committee of Papers , " to whom the consideration of the Publication of all Papers which have been communicated to the Society at their weekly meetings , shall from time to time be referred , and who , in the case of any paper which , though duly received , shall be submitted by the President for their consideration , shall decide whether it shall be read or no. II .
The Committee of Papers shall meet at such times as shall be appointed by the President ; due and sufficient notice of such meeting having been previously sent to every Member of the Committee .
The meetings shall be of two kinds : ordinary meetings , at which any business relating to the publication of papers may be transacted , and I vol. l. 2 m Appendix* interim meetings held between ordinary meetings , at which only soch business , relating to the publication of papers , as m the opimon of the President is not likely to give rise to difference of opinion , shall be transacted ; and the summons to each meeting shall state whether the meeting is to be an ordinary meeting , or an interim meeting .
Ill At an ordinary meeting no less number than seven of the Members of the said Committee ( of which number the President , or in his absence a Vice-President , shall always be one ) shall be a Quorum , capable of acting in relation to the said Papers .
At an interim meeting any five of the Members of the said Committee shall be a Quorum .
The minutes of an interim meeting shall be read for confirmation at the next ordinary meeting , and the minutes of an ordinary meeting shall be read for confirmation at the next ordinary meeting , not at any interim meeting which may intervene .
IV .
The majority of the said Committee , present at any meeting thereof , shall decide with regard to any paper communicated to the Society , whether it shall be published in part or in whole in the Philosophical Transactions or in the Proceedings of the Society , and shall determine what parts , if any and not the whole , shall be so published .
They shall further have power to require as a condition of publication such modifications of the text or of the illustrations as may seem to them desirable .
V. In the case of a paper communicated to the Society , in reference to which the Pellow ( or Foreign Member ) communicating it , has expressed the wish that it may be published in the Philosophical Transactions , the Committee of Papers , by a majority of those present , shall refer such a paper to at least two persons who are knowing and well skilled in the particular branch of Science to which the said paper relates , and who shall separately report in writing ( or if one or both of them happen to be for the time being Members of the said Committee , he or they may report orally ) their opinion of the said paper , and in particular as to its fitness to appear in the Philosophical Transactions .
Such reports of referees shall be considered as confidential communications .
In the case of a paper in reference to which no such wish has been expressed by the Fellow or Foreign Member communicating it , the Committee of Papers shall have power to refer in like manner the communication , or not , as they shall see fit .
VI .
The decisions of the Committee of Papers shall be determined by the majority of votes of those present and voting , and the voting shall be open , unless the President shall direct that the voting shall be by ballot .
In case of an equality of votes , the President shall have a second or casting vote .
The decisions of the Committee shall be duly entered in the Minute-book of the Committee .
Statutes of the Royal Society .
VII .
Once , at least , in every year , a proper portion of the Papers which have been communicated to the Society , and so ordered for publication by the Committee of Papers , shall be printed under the name and title of Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London ; and from time to time a proper portion of the papers which have been communicated to the Society , and which have been ordered for publication by the Committee of Papers , but not in the Philosophical Transactions , shall be printed , together with such other matter as the Council may direct , under the name and title of Proceedings of the Royal Society of London .
The time and manner of printing the Philosophical Transactions and Proceedings shall be fixed and determined by the Council , as occasion shall require .
A number of the copies of the Philosophical Transactions and of the Proceedings so printed , sufficient to supply the Fellows of the Society , shall be delivered to the Assistant Secretary , who shall enter in a book , to be provided for that purpose , the number of copies received by him , for which he shall be accountable to the Council for the time being .
VIII .
The Philosophical Transactions and Proceedings shall be printed at the sole charge , and for the use and benefit , of the Society , and of the Fellows thereof ; to the intent that each of the present Fellows , who actually contributes and pays towards the support of the Society , or who has compounded for such contribution , according to the rules and orders established in relation thereto , or who has for other particular reasons been exonerated and discharged from such contribution by order of the Council , may receive , gratis ( but under proper limitations and restrictions ) , one copy of such of the Philosophical Transactions and of the Proceedings as shall be printed as aforesaid ; and that all persons who shall hereafter be admitted Fellows shall , under the same conditions , receive , and be entitled to , the like benefit and advantage .
IX .
The Assistant Secretary shall deliver , , one of the said copies of the Transactions to every Fellow of the Society ( except as hereinafter excepted ) who shall demand the same , either in person , or by letter .
Provided always , that no Fellow whatsoever of the Society shall be entitled to demand or receive any such copy of the Transactions , whose election and payment of Admission fees and regular Contributions shall not have preceded the date of the time appointed for the delivery of the said Transactions ; neither shall the Executor of any deceased Fellow receive a copy of the Transactions published after the death of such Fellow .
Provided also , that no Fellow of the Society shall receive , or be entitled to receive , gratis , any copy or copies of the Transactions , so printed as aforesaid , after five years shall have elapsed from the time of the Assistant Secretary 's having begun to deliver out such copies 2 m 2 498 Appendix .
\ respectively ; but bis neglecting to demand them for so long a time shall be deemed a forfeiture and dereliction of his right thereto ?
' unless the Council for the time being , upon being made acquainted with the reason of such delay , and having regard to the circumstances of the application , and the amount of stock in hand , shall order such copies as they may think fit to be so delivered .
X. The Assistant Secretary shall further cause to be distributed , gratis , to all the Fellows of the Society , by post or otherwise , copies of the Proceedings , as soon as may be convenient after their appearance .
XI .
If the number of copies of 'Transactions and Proceedings so to be printed shall be greater than what will be requisite to supply each of the Fellows with one copy , such supernumerary copies shall be disposed of at such times , and in such manner , as the Council shall direct .
CHAPTER XIY .
Of the Boohs and Papers of the Society .
I. There shall be had and kept a Book , called the Charter-book , wherein shall be fairly written the copy of the Charters , all the Royal Grants on behalf of the Society , and the Obligation to be subscribed by the Fellows of the Society in their own hand-writing .
II .
There shall be kept a Book , called the Statute-book , wherein shall be fairly written , or printed , all the Laws , Statutes , and Constitutions made , or to be made , concerning the government and regulating of the Society or Council ; and also a Register of the Fellows of the Society , with the times of their Election and Admission .
III .
There shall be kept Journal-books of the Society , and also of the Council , wherein shall be entered all the minutes , orders , and business of the Society and Council at their respective meetings ; to which Journal-books any Fellow may have access at such times as the Library is open .
IV .
A Book shall be kept , in which the title of each communication received , the date of its reception at the apartments of the Society , and the name of the Fellow or Foreign Member who communicates it , shall be duly entered in the order of its reception . .
V. The original copy of every Paper received at the Society shall be considered the property of the Society , if there be no previous engagement with its author to the contrary ; but any author may withdraw a paper which has been received but not read ; or may , by leave of the Council , have a copy of his paper ; and it shall be in the power of the Council , if they think fit , to return to any author such drawings or other illustrations accompanying any paper communicated by him or on his behalf , which he may ask in writing to be returned to him .
Statutes of the Royal Society .
VI .
All the Papers not withdrawn by leave of the Council , and read to the Society , shall be delivered to the Committee of Papers ; and all Papers which have not been printed in the Transactions or Proceedings shall be preserved in the archives of the Society for future inspection ; and shall never be lent out of the Society 's House without Order of the Council .
VII .
The Library shall be open to the Fellows every week-day ( exclusive of Good Friday and Easter-eve , of Easter week , of a week at Whitsuntide , and of a week at Christmas ) , from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. , except on Saturdays , when it shall be open from Eleven in the morning to One in the afternoon ; but during the months of August and September it shall be closed on week-days , other than Saturdays , at 4 p.m. VIII .
Any Fellow may have the loan of any of the printed Books of the Society , excepting such as the Council shall order not to be taken out of the Library ; but he shall not be allowed to have in his possession more than ten volumes at a time .
The loan of Manuscripts is exclusively vested in the President and Council .
IX .
A List of all Books and Manuscripts borrowed from the Library of the Royal Society , and of the Fellows of the Society to whom they are lent , shall be kept in the Library .
X. All Books whatsoever belonging to the Society shall be returned at a time to be specified by the Council , in each year ; and the Library shall be closed for one month after such time , or for such shorter periods as the Council may direct .
XI .
The value of such Books in the possession of any Fellow as are not returned to the Library pursuant to the preceding Statute , shall be required to be paid by the person who has so detained them .
CHAPTER XV .
Of the Common Seal and Deeds .
I. The Common Seal of the Society shall be kept in a box , the key of which shall be kept in a sealed packet .
When the Common Seal has to be used , this packet shall be opened by the President in Council ; and at the Council meeting at which it is so opened , the Common Seal having been replaced in the box , and the box locked , the key shall again be enclosed in a packet , which shall be sealed by the President with his private seal .
The box and sealed packet shall be kept at the Society 's chambers in an iron safe .
II .
Every Deed or writing , to which the Common Seal is to be affixed , shall be passed and sealed in Council .
Appendix .
CHAPTER XVI .
Of the Restraint of Dividends to Fellows .
The Society shall not , and by its Laws may not , make any Dividend , Gift , Division , or Bonus in Money unto or between any of its Members .
CHAPTER XVII .
Of the Making and Repealing of Daws .
I. For the making of any Law or Statute of the Royal Society , the draught thereof shall be read in Council , and put to the vote , on two several days of their meeting .
The first day the question to be resolved by vote shall be to this effect , viz. , " Whether the draught of the said Statute , then agreed upon , shall be read at another meeting ?
" The second day the question shall be to this effect , viz. , " Whether the draught of the said Statute , then agreed upon , shall pass for a Law , or not ?
" II .
For the repealing of any Law or Statute , or any part thereof , the Repeal shall be proposed and voted in Council on two several days of their meeting .
The first day the question to be resolved by Ballot shall be to this effect , viz. , " Whether the Repeal of such a Statute , or such part thereof , shall be proposed at another meeting ?
" The second day the question shall be to this effect , viz. , " Whether such a Statute , or such part thereof , shall be repealed or not ?
" And in case the said Repeal be agreed unto , the same shall be recorded in the Journal-book of the Council ; and the Statute , or part of the Statute , repealed , shall be cancelled in the Statute-book .
THE END .

