VIII .
Account of aBOO K. The History of Poland in several Letters to Persons of Quality , giving an Account of the Ancient , and Present State of that Kingdom , Historical , Geographical , Physical , Political and Ecclesiastical , &amp;c. with several Letters relating to Physic .
Vol. I. To which is added a new Map of Poland .
By Bern , Connor , M. D. Fellow of the Royal Society , and Member of the College of Physicians , &amp;c. London Printed for Dan .
Brown , &amp;c. 1697 .
in 8vo .
IN this History of Poland , the Author gives an Account first of its Origin ; that about the middle of the Sixth Century , it came to be a distinct Nation , when as yet it had no Cities , no Money , or written Laws ; the first City was then Built by Lechus near the State of Brandenburgh , naming it Guesna ; then treating of their Policy and Princes , which at first were called Dukes , he gives a particular History of all their Dukes and Kings , down to the present King Frederic Augustus .
These he divides into Four Classes , the first beginning An. 550 .
ending An. 830 .
when the Government came into the Families of Pirstus and Jagello , to the Year 1574 .
which he prosecutes through the Reigns of several Kings , down to Sigismund II .
when the Jagellonic Race ended , which make the Second and Third Classes , casually making several Remarks on the the Government , Nature of the People , and the like ; with the times and occasions of the Building of several of the chief Towns and Cities .
The time of the Teutonic Knights Establishment in Prussia ; how the Latin Tongue came to be so frequent in use , when the Lutheran Religion came to be there Propagated ; the Jocular Common-wealth of Babina , when and how Instituted .
The fourth Classis consists of mixed Families , from the year 1574 .
to 1674 .
and here he observes when Courts of Judicature were first Erected , with the Original of the Cossacks , and extent of their Dominions ; their Country , Character , Customs , Religion , &amp;c. and in all these Reigns gives an Account of their Wars and Victories , Policies , &amp;c. with a particular Relation of the famous Raising the Siege of Vienna , by John Sobieski late King of Poland ; and gives an Account of a Dispute , he had himself , in his Court with several Divines , in the King 's presence , touching the seat of the Rational Soul in the Body , and cause of Death , not from the Separation of the Soul from the Body , but more properly from the Cessation of the Heart 's Motion , the other being rather a Consequent thereof .
Here he relates the Circumstances of the Princess 's Marriage to the Duke of Bavaria , whom the Author attended as her Physician , in her Journey from Poland , the particulars whereof , with her Reception at Brussels , he relates , and gives some Account of the Election of the present King , which ends his History of their Kings .
Next he gives a Geographical Description of Poland , its extent , Provinces , Towns , Products , &amp;c. As to the Towns , he says , the greatest part thereof are Timber built , and Thatched , the whole Number of Cities , Towns and Villages , amounts to near 170000 , of which not above Twenty are Walled ; gives a particular Account of the University at Cracow , its Colleges and Learning , with the Churches and Monasteries there , as likewise of the Salt Mine there , with the Manufacture and Revenue thereof , amounting to Eight hundred thousand Polish Florins yearly : It is observeable , that in some places of the Mine , the Vapours will take Fire from a Candle , so that they dare not work there .
He also tells us of a particular sort of Manna , gathered off the Ground , of which they make several sorts of Dishes for their common Food .
Treating of Prussia he shows their way of making Glass : Speaking of the City of Thorn , he says , they have in a public Library there , two of Cicero 's Epistles written upon Tables of Wax .
In the Province of Red Russia , on the Shore of the River San , are found Trees Buried , very hard , and black as Ebony : Near the City Kiow , they show the Bodies of Persons long since Dead , and Preserved in Caves of a Sandy dry Stone .
There are several Observables touching the Liberality , and other particular Customs of the People , as the remains of Heathenish Superstition and Sacrifices still used , viz. by those of the Province of Samogitia , &amp;c. for which we refer to the Book itself .
Next he comes to speak of the Origin and Extent of the great Duchy of Lithuania , with the Description of its Towns , and Succession of its Dukes .
In Vilna the chief City thereof is a Bell , which requires above Twenty four strong Men to ring it ; and here likewise he mentions several Idolatrous Customs and Rites formerly observed ; and speaking of the Woods and Deserts of Lithuania , he gives the Relation of several Children that have been bred up and suckled by the Bears , with their Cubs , with Observables of their eatting raw Flesh , wild Honey , and Crabs ; with the Difficulty of making them go Upright , bringing them to Speak , and the like , which ends this Volume .
At the end of this Treatise the Doctor gives a Compendious Plan of the Body of Physic , or his Corpus rationale Medicum , being his Chemical and Anatomical Method ; for understanding the Oeconomia Animalis , the Nature of Diseases , and the Materia Medica , as it was by him demonstrated at Oxon , London and Cambridge~ ; first of the Elements , Fabric , and System of the World ; then of the Elements of Terrestial Bodies , next the Structure and parts of the Human Body , in all its particulars ; and lastly of the Union of the Soul and Body ; coming to speak of the Materia Medica , he affirms , All inward Diseases have their first Seat in the Mass of Blood ; that there are no Specific Medicines for any particular part of the Body , and that outward Applications cannot avail much for inward Distempers .
He divides all the Materia Medica into Two Classes , evacuating and altering Medicines ; where he reduces the Chemistry and Reason , the Nature and Operations of Medicines ; this , he says , he endeavoured to demonstrate at Oxford , &amp;c. and here he gives hopes of his obliging the Public in a few Years , with a Latin Treatise of the Principles of Physic , and of the Oeconomia Animalis ; he subjoins a farther Explication and Vindication of the Plan of the Animal Oeconomy ; and here , in order to a general view of the Universe , he proposes Matter as the first general Principle of all Bodies ; and conceives Matter to be the only thing we have any clear Notion of , its Properties are divisibility and impenetrability , one part of Matter differs from another only in bulk , motion , or figure , and according as it differs from others in one or more of these Qualities , they will constitute different Bodies ; and he requires but these three Qualities , to give a general Account of the different parts of the World , as the Stars , the Ethereal , Fluid , and Terrestrial Bodies : The Atoms of the first Matter have a less Bulk and more Motion , the Atoms of the Second Matter are properly Spherical , have as little Bulk but less Motion ; the Atoms of the third Matter are of an irregular Figure , and none , or a slower Motion than the rest ; the Stars consist of the first , the Ethereal Fluid of the Second , Planets and Terrestrial Bodies of the third : The two first are exterior Agents , and rather influence a Motion into the Terrestrial Bodies , than enter into their Composition .
These then are his Principles by which he explains the Phenomena of Nature .
The last Letter is an Account of a Latin Treatise lately Published by the Author , called Evangelium Medici , seu Medicina Mystica de suspensis Naturae legibus ; in which he compares supernatural Effects Philosophically , with Natural ones , and explains them by the Principles of Physic ; and first he gives the reason of his Attempt , which was to Answer those that denied the Being of Supernatural Effects , because they could not apprehend them ; in order to prosecute his Design , he lays down for a Basis , the Structure of the Human Body , as far as it is discoverable by Anatomy , Microscopes and Chemistry ; next the Cause , Nature , and Laws of Motion , which is the only true Cause of all natural Phenomenon ; and the Suspensions of these Laws of Motion , are the only Causes of all Supernatural Effects : Three ways these Laws may be suspended , and by one or more of those ways of Suspension , he conceives all Supernatural Effects may be solved .
By Suspension he does not understand a changing or abrogating the Laws , only their Course being stopped for a time , while the Effect is produced .
For a fuller Explication of this curious , and difficult Subject , we refer to the Learned Doctor 's Letter , or rather to the Treatise it self , of which this Letter is but a short Abstract .
London : Printed for Sam .
Smith , and Benj .
Walford , Printers to the Royal Society , at the Princes Arms in St. Paul 's

