1889 .
] Experiments on the Resistance of Electrolytic Cells .
541 The results may be thus summarised :\#151 ; Station : Aug. , 1886 .
Inclination .
Force .
Declination .
Horizontal .
Total .
St. G-eorge , Grenada 40 54*7 3 1093 4-1144 0 41'-5 E. Hog Island , Grenada 41 14 1 3 -1000 4 -1223 0 51 5 E. Island of Carriacou 3 0771 \#151 ; 0 16 3 E. II .
" Experiments on the Resistance of Electrolytic Cells .
" By Capt. H. R. Sankey , R.E. Communicated by W. H. Preece , F.R.S. Received March 21 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) It was observed during the course of some experiments on the electrolytic deposition of copper that the resistance of the electrolytic cells employed was greater the lower the current density , and the experiments described in this paper were undertaken to inquire more definitely into the matter .
Many physicists have already observed the same effect , and have ascribed it to a resistance at the junctions of the electrodes with the electrolyte , and called it " transfer " resistance .
In these experiments a prismatic electrolytic cell of triangular cross-section was employed , and the area of the electrodes was equal to that of the cross-section of the liquid .
The electrodes experimented with were electrotype copper , lead , zinc , and platinum , and the electrolytes , solutions of CuS04 of various sp. gr. , neutral and acidulated , of ZnS04 , MgS04 , NaCl , NazC03 , dilute H2S04 , \amp ; c. The electrodes were placed at different distances apart , but in general had an area of 50 square cm .
All the measurements were made by noting the swing of a Thomson 's reflecting galvanometer , used as a potentiometer , and standardised before each trial by means of a Clark 's cell .
The current was measured by observing the potential difference across a known resistance .
The P.D. of the cell was proportional to the swing of the spot of light .
The counter B.M.P. was obtained by taking the swing on breaking the circuit , the galvanometer being connected across the terminals of the cell ; but this swing is not proportional to the C.E.M.F. existing m the cell whilst the circuit is completed .
Readings were , there54:2 Capt. H. R. Sankey .
[ Apr. 4 , fore , taken to obtain the fall of the C.E.M.F. on breaking the circuit , so as to obtain the correction to be applied to the reading .
This correction was found to vary considerably according to the electrodes and the electrolytes ; with acidulated CuS04 solutions and electrotype copper electrodes it varied from 3 to 15 per .
cent. A variety of tests were made to ascertain what degree of dependence could be placed on these measurements of C.E.M.F. , because , of course , on them the whole matter rests .
Probably the most conclusive of these tests was the measurement of the resistance ( by the method employed in these experiments ) of an arrangement , consisting of a box of coils and of an electrolytic cell of very large area , whose resistance might be neglected , but which supplied a C.E.M.F. The measured resistances agreed , within 2 per cent. , of the resistance unplugged in the box .
*j ' Jjj ?
The conclusion come to is that the C.E.M.F. was determined with a fair degree of accuracy , sufficient to show the existence of a transfer resistance .
The resistance of the electrolyte itself was measured in some cases by finding the P.D. across two cross-sections of the liquid , by means of fine wires dipping into the liquid at a known distance apart .
This resistance was found to be ( as might be expected ) independent of the current density .
Deducting the resistance of the electrolyte as thus obtained from the resistance of the cell gave the " transfer " resistance .
In commencing each trial a current of about 2'7 milliamperes was passed through the cell for some time , which was found to increase the resistance of the cell up to a limit depending on the previous history of the electrodes .
The current was then increased by approximately doubling it each time until it reached about 370 milliamperes .
It was found that as the current increased the resistance diminished , rapidly at first , more slowly afterwards ( set A ) .
After applying the 370 milliamperes current , the current was again suddenly reduced to about 2'7 milliamperes , and it was found that the resistance had become much smaller , but that it immediately began to increase again , somewhat rapidly at first ( set B ) .
A few minutes afterwards the current was again increased , as in set A , and the resistance was found to diminish as the current increased , but more slowly than in set A ( set C ) .
When a current of 370 milliamperes was reached , the resistance in both set A and set 0 were practically equal , and the transfer resistance was small .
The figure shows one of the trials with acidulated CuS04 solution and lead electrodes .
The sudden rise in the resistance ( set A ) occurred at the moment the cathode became covered with copper .
In this figure the thick line shows set A , the thin line set C , and the 1889 .
] Experiments on the Resistance of Electrolytic Cells .
543 dotted lines the resistance of the electrolyte obtained during set A and set C. A great many trials were made , some few of which are given in the paper .
All give evidence of a transfer resistance diminishing as the current increases .
The view is expressed that the " transfer " resistance is not due to a non-conducting layer being formed on one or both electrodes , since if such were the case the resistance would increase as the current increases , and would be greater after the application of a strong current than before .
It is suggested that this transfer resistance may be due to some molecular interaction at the junction of the electrodes with the electrolyte , offering a greater resistance to weak currents than to strong , and the reduction of the resistance after the application of a strong current supports this suggestion , in that the disturbance set up by the strong currents would probably last for some time .
A trial was made with acidulated CuS04 solution and electrocopper electrodes under identical conditions , with the exception of the area of the electrodes , which Was varied .
It was found that the transfer resistance per unit area was sensibly the same for same current density .
The effect of temperature was also inquired into , but only to a limited extent .
With weak currents the transfer resistance diminished very rapidly as the temperature increased , and at about 70 ' C. tho transfer resistance was very small .
Preterits .
[ Apr. 4 , f A . .
... ... . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... III .
" The Ferment Action of Bacteria .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and A. Macfadyen , M.A. , B.Sc. Received March 23 , 1889 .
[ Publication deferred , ] IV .
" On the Limit of Solar and Stellar Light in the Ultra-violet Part of the Spectrum .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R S. Received March 28 , 1889 .
; [ Publication deferred .
] Presents , April4 , 1889- j .
j , ; .
4 , Transactions .
I j J ! .
BrisbaneRoyal Society of Queensland , ' Proceedings .
Vol. V. i , Part 5 .
8vo .
Brisbane 1889 .
" 4 X.2 ' The Society .
Brunswick:\#151 ; VereinfiirNaturwissenschaft .
Jahresbericht .
1886-87 .
8vo .
Braunschweig 1887 .
The Yerein .
Brussels : Academy Royale de M !
edecine de Belgique .
Memoires Couronnes .
Tome IX .
Fasc .
1 .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1889 .
The Academy .
CambridgePhilosophical Society .
Transactions .
Yol .
XIV .
Part 3 .
4to .
Cambridge 1889 .
The Society .
EdinburghRoyal Society .
Proceedings .
Yol .
XYI .
No. 129 .
8vo .
[ EdinburgJi ] 1888 .
The Society .
KiefB : Societe des Naturalistes .
Memoires .
Tome X. Livr .
1 . .
[ Russian .
] 8vo .
Kieff 1889 .
The Society .
Leipsic : ivonigl .
Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Abhandlungen ( Math.-Phys .
Class ) .
Bd .
XY .
Nos. 1-2 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1889 ; Berichte ( Math.-Phys .
Class ) .
1888 .
Heft 1-2 .
Berichte ( Philol.-Histor .
Class ) .
1888 .
Heft 3-4 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1889 .
The Society .
London : General Medical Council .
Fourth Report of the Statistical Committee .
8vo .
London 1888 .
The Council .
Institution of Civil Engineers .
Minutes of Proceedings .
Yol .
XCY .
8vo .
London 1889 .
The Institution .
London Mathematical Society .
Proceedings .
Yol , XIX .
Nos. 338-342 .
8vo .
London[1889 ] .
The Society .
Mineralogical Society .
Mineralogical Magazine and Journal .
V'h VIII .
No. 38 .
8vo .
London 1889 .
The Society .
Pesth:\#151 ; K. TJngar .
Geologische Anstalt .
Fhldtani Kozlony .
Xotet XVIII .
Fiizet 5\#151 ; 12 .
8vo .
Budapest 1888 .
The Institute .

