On the State of IWater and Aeriform Matter in Cavities found in certain Crystals .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read June 13 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 367 .
] After adverting to the interesting phenomena connected with certain crystalline products of the globe , and showing that the Huttonian theory more plausibly accounts for their formation than the Wernerian , Sir Humphry proceeds to offer additional arguments in its favour , deduced from his examination of the aeriform and liquid matter contained in certain siliceous stones .
The fluid was in all cases found to be nearly pure water ; and the elastic fluid was pure azote , existing always , however , in a state of considerable rarefaction ; namely , from 12 to 18 times more rare than atmospheric air .
In the only two cases in which the relation of the bulk of the water to that of the void space could be ascertained , it was nearly as 2 to 1b In the chalcedonies of basaltic rocks the gas was also azote , but it was 61 or 70 times more rare than atmospheric air , the quantity of water to that of void space being the same as in the rock crystal .
It occurred to the author that atmospheric air might have been originally included , and that the oxygen might have been absorbed *by the water ; and an experiment is detailed , the result of which proved favourable to such an opinion .
None of the crystals of se ; condary rocks examined by Sir Humphry Davy were impervious to air ; in these , therefore , atmospheric air was found of its usual density ; this was even the case with the cavities in dense calcareous spar .
The President observes , in conclusion , that it appears difficult to explain the results obtained , unless by supposing the water and silica separated from each other at a very high temperature ; at such temperatures a liquid hydrate of silica might exist under pressure , and like other liquid bodies in the atmosphere , it would probably contain small quantities of atmospheric air ; and upon such a supposition , the phenomena presented by the water in rock crystal and chalcedony might be accounted for .

