172 Prof. J. A. Ewing and Mr. W. Rosenhain .
glass vessel filled with kerosene , through which no ultra-violet light could have been transmitted .
To put the matter to final test , I lighted a magnesium wire in close proximity to the receiver without producing any effect .
Thick blocks of wood of ebonite and of pitch were interposed without checking the action .
I then used polarised electric radiation , and interposed a book analyzer , 6 cm .
in thickness ; when the analyzer was held parallel , there was a vigorous action , but when it was held in a crossed position all action was stopped .
No visible or heat radiation could " have been transmitted through such a structure and there can be no doubt that the action was entirely due to electric radiation .
It would be interesting to investigate whether the observed action of electric radiation on a potassium receiver is in any way analogous to the photo-electric action of visible light .
I have commenced an investigation on this subject , the results of which I hope to communicate on another occasion .
Bakerian Lecture.\#151 ; " The Crystalline Structure of Metals .
" By J. A. Ewing , E.R.S. , Professor of Mechanism and Applied Mechanics in the University of Cambridge , and W. Eosenhain , 18ol Exhibition Research Scholar , Melbourne University .
Delivered May 18 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous communication , read to the Society on March 16 , a pi eliminary account was given of some of the results the authors had arrived at in studying metals by the microscopic methods initiated by Sorby , and pursued by Andrews , Arnold , Behrens , Charpy , Osmond , Eoberts-Austen , Stead , and others .
The present paper deals with a development and extension of the same work .
It relates chiefly , though not exclusively , to the effects of strain , and the relation of plasticity to crystalline structure .
It is well known that the etching of a polished surface of metal reveals , in general , a structure consisting of irregularly shaped grains , with clearly marked boundaries .
Each grain is a crystal , the growth of which has been arrested by its meeting with neighbouring grains .
This view , as Mr. Stead has pointed out , is strongly supported by the appearance of the etched surface under oblique illumination , when the several grains are seen to reflect light in a way which is consistent only with the idea that on each there is a multitude of facets with a definite orientation , constant over any one grain , but different from grain to grain .
The formation of such a structure is well exhibited , on a relatively enormous scale on the inner surface of a cake of solidifying The Crystalline Structure of Metals .
173 bismuth , from which the still molten metal has been poured away .
Another striking example of this structure is seen in steel containing about 4J per cent , of silicon .
The fractured ingot of this material exhibits large crystals , and by deeply etching a polished surface Mr. Stead has obtained a beautiful development of the regularly 'Oriented elements of which the crystalline grains are built up on a .scale so large as to require but little magnification .
The authors have obtained much evidence that this structure is typical of metals generally .
Probably under no condition does any metal cease to be crystalline .
The crystalline character of wrought-iron bars or plates is seen when the polished surface is etched , not merely by the general appearance of the grains under oblique light , but by the development of geometrical pits on the surface .
These pits have a definite orientation over each grain , and the orientation changes from one grain to another .
Usually in the purest commercial iron their outline is that of plane sections of \amp ; cube , but occasionally they are apparently plane sections of an octahedron .
In some instances isolated and comparatively large pits only are seen ; in others nearly the whole surface of a grain , when viewed under a magnification of 1000 or 2000 diameters , is found to be covered with small as well as large pits , geometrically similar and similarly oriented .
Photographs of these are given in the paper .
For the purpose of producing smooth surfaces in the more fusible metals , without polishing , the metal was poured in a molten state on a plate of smooth glass .
The surface produced in this way shows well the boundaries between the grains , and in some cases it also exhibits the crystalline character of the grains in a remarkable way by means of geometrical pits , which are apparently formed on the surface in consequence of the presence of small bubbles of air or , more probably , of gas given out from the metal itself during solidification .
Cadmium shows these particularly well , and they are to be observed also in tin and zinc .
These air-pits are seen , under 1000 diameters , to be negative crystals , similar and similarly oriented on each grain , and , in cadmium , to have outlines which suggest that they are sections of hexagonal prisms .
Their characteristics are exhibited in the photographs , which also show how the boundaries between the grains are emphasised by the collection there of air or of gas given off by the metal during solidification .
The true boundary is merely the trace of a surface on a plane , but it may be broadened out in this way into a wide shallow channel .
The effects of strain have been examined in many metals , using surfaces prepared either by polishing or by casting against a smooth plate .
When any metal is strained beyond its elastic limit in any way , the surface of each crystalline grain becomes marked by one or more * ' Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute , ' 1898 .
174 Prof. J. A. Ewirjg and Mr. W. Eosenhain .
systems of lines running in a generally straight and parallel fashion over it .
The direction of the parallel lines changes from grain to grain .
Thus these lines serve to mark out one grain from another in a metal which , although polished before straining , has not been etched to develop the boundaries .
As straining proceeds , the lines become more and more numerous and emphatic , and two , three , or four systems appear on each grain .
The nature of these lines has been described in the authors ' paper of March 16 .
They are slips along cleavage or gliding planes in the crystals .
The effect of each slip is to develop a step on the polished face .
The short inclined surface forming this step looks black under vertical illumination , but shines out brightly when oblique light of a suitable incidence is Used , dhese slip bands , as they were named in the previous paper , are thus seen as narrow dark or bright bands , accordingly to the nature of the lighting .
The authors have developed slip-bands in iron , copper , gold , silver , platinum , lead , tin , bismuth , cadmium , aluminium , nickel , as well as steel , brass , gun-metal , and various other alloys .
So far as the observations go , they occur in all metals .
The slip-bands are in themselves an evidence of crystalline structure , and , further , they show how such a structure is consistent with plasticity , and how it persists after plastic strain has occurred .
The " flow or non-elastic strain of a metal occurs through numerous finite slips taking place on the cleavage or gliding surfaces in each of the crystalline grains of which the metal is an aggregate .
The elementary pieces which slip on one another retain their primitive crystalline character .
Further , if the movement of the pieces with respect to each other in any one grain is a movement of translation only , their orientation should remain uniform in each grain .
That this is actually the case is demonstrated by examining specimens of metal which had been violently deformed without any subsequent annealing or heating .
In metal that has been rolled or hammered in the cold state , or deformed by tension or compression or strain of any kind , however severely , the grains are still seen where a surface is polished and etched .
Their form is much changed by the strain which the piece has undergone .
But the fact that they have retained their crystalline structure is demonstrated when , after polishing , the piece is subjected to a slight additional strain of any kind , for the effect of this additional strain is to develop slips of the same general character as before .
Further evidence to the same effect is given by the fact that etching the polished surface of a very severely strained piece develops geometrical pits , which are similar and similarly oriented over the face of each grain , notwithstanding the great distortion which the grain has suffered as a whole .
The effects of oblique lighting in The Crystalline Structure of Metals .
metal which is polished and etched after severe straining are referred to as illustrating the same point .
The persistence of crystalline structure is demonstrated by micro-photographs of the section of a bar of Swedish iron which had been rolled cold from a diameter of f inch to a diameter of \#163 ; inch without subsequent heating .
The outline of the grains is much distorted , but the orientation of the crystalline elements remains constant within each individual grain .
The slips in metals which exhibit a cubical crystalline structure on etching are in some instances parallel to the faces of the cubes , and are very frequently inclined to the faces , apparently along the octahedral planes .
Stepped lines are frequently seen , and also lines which appear curved probably in consequence of numerous steps which are unresolved even under the highest powers .
In exceedingly plastic metals such as lead , copper , and gold , the lines are particularly straight A piece of lead cast against glass to produce a smooth surface gives , when slightly strained , a splendid display of slip-bands , ^ and the boundaries of the grains are sharply defined by the meeting of the lines on one grain with those on its neighbours .
Another way to get a clear lead surface for the purpose of showing slip-bands is to press a freshly cut piece of the metal with considerable force against a smooth object .
Photographs of slip-bands in iron , gold , silver , lead , copper , and other metals are given in the paper .
When a metal is fractured the grains do not as a rule part company at their boundaries , but split along cleavage surfaces .
It is to this that the crystalline appearance , obvious in many fractures , is due .
In several metals the authors find that twinning takes place in the crystalline structure as an effect of strain .
Samples of copper , which in the original cast state gave no evidence of the existence of twin crystals , were hammered or otherwise wrought , and were then found to be full of twins .
The twinning produced in this way survived after the wrought copper had been raised to a red heat and allowed to cool .
Similar results were obtained in gold and in silver ; the metal in the cast state did not show twins , but they were found after the metal had been wrought and subsequently softened by annealing .
An example of twinning was observed in nickel after the application of a somewhat severe strain .
Twins were readily developed in cadmium by strain , apparently as a result of the slight strain which was applied for the purpose of developing slip bands .
They were also found in lead , zinc , and tin , either as a primitive feature in the crystallisation or produced by straining .
The twinning frequently takes the form of a large number of parallel bands within a single grain , and a twin band due to strain in one grain is sometimes associated with a twin band in neighbouring grains , the bands being continuous except for a change in orientation in passing from grain to grain .
Photographs of twin bands in copper , gold , lead , and other metals are 176 The Crystalline Structure of Metals .
\#166 ; given , showing the twin bands as revealed by a cross-hatching of parallel slip lines , the sets of lines being parallel to one another in alternate bands of the twin .
The twinning under strain which we have observed in various metals is similar to that which is known to -occur in calcite .
It may be regarded as a result of slip accompanied by a definite and constant amount of rotation on the part of the molecules .
From this point of view there are two modes in which plastic yielding occurs in a crystalline aggregate .
One is by simple slips , where the movements of the crystalline elements are purely translatory and their orientation is consequently preserved unchanged .
The other is by twinning , where rotation occurs through an angle which is the same for each molecule in the twinned group .
Both modes are often found not only in a single specimen of metal but in the same crystalline grain .
At the suggestion of Messrs. Heyeock and Neville , the authors ' examination of the effects of strain has been extended to certain eutectic alloys .
The structure of such alloys has already been -described by Osmond , with whose observations these are in agreement .
The alloy generally exhibits rather large grains , the structure of which is very different from that of pure metals , for it consists of an intimate intermixture of two constituents , one of which appears as separate or -dendritic crystals on a field formed of the other constituent .
The two are seen forming an exceedingly minute and complex structure within each of the large grains of which the alloy is made up .
Straining has the effect of making this intimate structure more apparent , by causing slips which set up differences of level between pieces of one and the ether constituent .
A study of the micro-structure of alloys suggests a possible explanation of the peculiarities they present in regard to variation of electrical conductivity with temperature .
The two constituents may behave individually as pure metals in this respect , but if their coefficients of expansion are different the closeness of the joints between them will depend on the temperature .
Thus if the more expansible metal exists aS plates , or separate pieces of any form within the other , the effect of heating will be to make the joints between the two conduct more readily , with the result of reducing the increase of resistance to which heating would otherwise give rise , and in extreme cases with the effect even of producing a negative temperature coefficient .
The high resistance of alloys generally may be ascribed to the large number of joints across which the current has to pass .
In casting metals against glass and other smooth bodies for the purpose of getting a surface fit for microscopical examination , a surface is occasionally produced which not only shows the true boundaries between the crystalline grains , but also additional markings which simulate The Yellow Colouring Matters accompanying Chlorophyll .
177 ' boundaries in a very curious manner .
These pseudo-boundaries are often polygonal in form , like the real boundaries , and have an intimate geometrical association with them .
Under low powers they are in some instances difficult to distinguish from true boundaries ; but the-distinction is apparent under high powers , and it becomes obvious as soon as slip-bands are developed by the straining of the metal .
The pseudo-boundaries are found to consist in small variations of level in the surface of the grains in which they occur .
Their form suggests that they are projections upon the surface of real edges below .
They occur very conspicuously in cadmium , especially when it is cast on a cold surface , and less conspicuously in zinc .
It is probable that in the strain set up by unequal cooling after the metal has solidified , the lower edges of the crystalline grains project a sort of image of themselves on the surface by slips , or possibly by narrow bands of twinning .
The effect resembles that of a Japanese " magic " mirror , in which slight inequalities of the surface , corresponding to a pattern behind , cause-light reflected from the mirror to produce an image in which a ghost of the pattern may be traced .
The authors regard their experiments as establishing the conclusion briefly stated in their previous paper , to the effect that the plasticity of metals is due to the sliding over one another of the crystalline elements composing each grain , without change in their orientation within each grain , except in so far as such change may occur through twinning .
" The Yellow Colouring Matters accompanying Chlorophyll , and their Spectroscopic Relations .
" By C. A. Schunck .
Communicated by Edward Schunck , F.R.S. Received April 20 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1899 .
[ Plate 6 .
] The yellow colouring matters dealt with are those accompanying chlorophyll in healthy green leaves and which are extracted along with it by means of boiling alcohol .
This group of yellow colouring matters is generally known b/ thtf name xanthophyll , a term first used by Berzelius , who was the first observer to express the belief that a yellow colouring matter pre-exists along with the green colouring matter in alcoholic extracts of green leaves .
The subject has subsequently received the attention of many investigators\#151 ; Fremy , Michels , Millardet , Muller , Tinisnaseff , Ger-land , Raunenhoff , Askenasy , Stokes , Sorby , Tschirch , Kraus , Filhol , Hansen , and Schunck .
The principal results arrived at by these investigators are as follows :\#166 ; \#151 ; Filhol noticed that by treating crude alcoholic , chlorophyll solutions with animal charcoal it is possible to

