480 Experiments to ascertain if Cattle may act as a Reservoir of the Virus of Sleeping Sickness ( Trypanosoma gambiense ) .
By Colonel Sir David Bruce , C.B. , F.B.S. , Army Medical Service ; Captains A. E. Hamerton , D.S.O. , and H. B. Bateman , Boyal Army Medical Corps ; and Captain F. P. Mackie , Indian Medical Service .
( Sleeping Sickness Commission of the Boyal Society , 1908\#151 ; 10 .
) ( Beceived June 7 , \#151 ; Bead June 16 , 1910 .
) The question as to whether cattle can act as a reservoir of the virus of Sleeping Sickness is an important one .
It was usually believed until lately that man was the main reservoir , and that the other animals might be ignored .
But in view of the fact that the fly on the Lake-shore have remained infective for some two years after the native population have been removed , it is necessary to enquire if it is not possible that other animals may act as well .
In this regard cattle have been , perhaps , the most important , as on the once thickly-populated Lake-shore and islands they were numerous , and in many cases grazed and watered in the fly-area .
Another reason of their importance is , that if they can act as a reservoir , then the same will probably be true of the different species of antelope which inhabit the Lake-shore .
It may be presumed that these will greatly increase now that the , natives and domestic animals have been removed , and that they will take the place of the cattle in keeping up the infectivity of the Glossina The Commission , therefore , thought it would be well to enquire into the question , and the result is given in this paper .
Answers to the following questions were sought : Are cattle capable of being infected with Sleeping Sickness by the sub-cutaneous injection of blood containing Trypanosoma gambiense tCan cattle be infected with Sleeping Sickness by the bites of artificially-infected tsetse flies ?
Can cattle be infected with Sleeping Sickness by the bites of the naturally-infected flies caught on the Lake-shore ?
Is it possible to infect tsetse flies by feeding them on cattle infected with Sleeping Sickness , and afterwards to transmit the disease by means , of these flies to healthy animals ?
Finally , if these questions are answered in the affirmative , will it be possible to find thafr cattle which have lived in the fly-area are naturally infected with Sleeping .
Sickness ?
Cattle as a Reservoir of the Virus of Sleeping Sickness .
481 I. Are Cattle capable of being Infected with Sleeping Sickness by the Subcutaneous Injection of Blood containing Trypanosoma gambiense ?
Experiment 869 .
Bull .
September 10 , 1909.\#151 ; A bull was inoculated with 5 c.c. of blood containing large numbers of Trypanosoma gambiense from an infected monkey .
Its blood was examined daily , and 18 days after injection the bull was found to be infected with Trypanosoma gambiense .
The identity of the trypanosome was established by injecting a monkey with some blood from the ox .
This monkey showed Trypanosoma gambiense on the sixth day .
Conclusion.\#151 ; From this experiment it is seen that oxen are capable of being infected with Sleeping Sickness by the injection of blood containing Trypanosoma gambiense .
The trypanosome appears in small numbers in the blood , and the blood , when injected into susceptible animals such as monkeys , gives rise to a fatal form of the disease .
II .
Can Cattle be Infected with Sleeping Sickness by the Bites of Artificially-infected Glossina palpalis ?
The two following experiments were carried out by feeding Glossina palpalis first on an infected monkey and immediately afterwards on a healthy ox .
Wild flies from the Lake-shore were used .
Experiment 890 .
Ox. May 20 , 1909.\#151 ; The ox was thrown and a monkey heavily infected with Sleeping Sickness was laid across its flank .
Two cages of Glossina , containing 100 and 150 flies respectively , were allowed to feed for a few seconds on the monkey and then on the ox .
The flies were allowed from 30 to 35 interrupted feeds on each animal every day .
This was continued for 38 days , during which time 561 flies were estimated to have fed on one or other animal .
July 17.\#151 ; Fifty-eight days after the first infected feed , Trypanosoma gambiense appeared in the blood of the ox .
The identity of the trypanosome was established by injection of the ox 's blood into two monkeys .
The first monkey was injected with blood from the ox 76 days and the second monkey 181 days after the flies had first fed on the ox .
Both monkeys developed Sleeping Sickness , the first 7 days and the second 11 days after injection of the blood .
Experiment 891 .
Calf .
The details of this experiment were similar to those of the last .
Trypanosoma gambiense appeared in the blood of the calf 57 days after the flies had been first fed upon it . .
Three cubic centimetres of the blood of the calf were injected into a monkey , and the monkey developed Sleeping Sickness after an incubation period of 8 days .
Conclusion.\#151 ; These two experiments show that when artificially infected Glossina palpalis are allowed to feed on healthy cattle , these fl.nima.ls develop Sleeping Sickness , and that the blood of the cattle is capable of giving rise to infection of Trypanosoma gambiense in monkeys when injected into them .
Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
Cattle as a [ June 7 III .
Can Cattle be Infected with Sleeping Sickness by the Bites of the Naturally-infected Flies caught on the Lake-shore ?
In the next three experiments freshly-caught palpalis brought up to the laboratory from the Lake-shore were allowed to feed straightway on healthy cattle .
By this means it will be shown whether Glossina palpalis in their wild state are capable of giving Sleeping Sickness to healthy cattle .
Experiment 982 .
Bull .
2195 freshly captured Glossina palpalis were applied to a bull , and of these 1536 were estimated to have fed .
This feeding of the flies extended over a period of 16 days , at the end of which time Trypanosoma gambiense appeared in the blood of the bull .
To help in the identification of this trypanosome , 3 c.c. of the blood of the bull were injected into a monkey .
The monkey developed Sleeping Sickness 18 days later .
5 c.c. of the blood of the bull were also injected into a goat .
Trypanosoma gambiense appeared in the blood of the goat after an incubation period of 38 days .
Experiment 1462 .
Bull .
The details of this experiment were similar to those of the last one .
Over a period of eight days , 1370 wild flies from the Lake-shore were applied to the bull , of which 705 fed .
Ten days from the first application of flies , Trypanosoma gambiense appeared in the blood of the bull .
Two animals , a monkey and a goat , each received 1 c.c. of the blood of the bull by injection under their skin .
The monkey developed Sleeping Sickness seven days later , but the goat died in 16 days without showing any infection .
Experiment 1465 .
Bull .
During a period of 13 days , 459 freshly caught Lake-shore Glossina palpalis were applied to a bull , and of these 314 fed .
On the fourteenth day after the flies were first fed , the bull developed an infection of Trypanosoma gambiense .
Some blood from this bull was injected into a monkey and into a goat .
Neither animal became infected .
Conclusion.\#151 ; These experiments prove that Glossina , when captured in their natural state on the Lake-shore , are capable of transmitting the virus of Sleeping Sickness to cattle , and that the blood of these cattle gives rise to a fatal form of the disease in monkeys and in goats when it is injected into them .
IY .
Is it possible to Infect Tsetse Flies by Feeding them on Cattle Infected with Sleeping Sickness , and aftemoards to transmit the Disease by means of these Flies to Healthy AnimalsI Eive experiments under this heading were carried out .
Laboratory-bred flies were used in all of them .
Three were negative and two positive .
The three negative experiments will be shortly summarised first .
Reservoir of the Virus of Sleeping Experiment 1451 .
Ninety laboratory-bred Glossina palpalis were fed for 10 successive days on a calf whose blood contained Trypanosoma gambiense .
The flies were starved for 72 hours .
They were then fed on a clean monkey daily for 45 successive days .
The monkey failed to develop Sleeping Sickness .
When the remainder of the flies were dissected , one contained flagellates , but when the contents of this fly were injected into a goat the animal failed to show any infection of Trypanosoma gambiense .
Result.\#151 ; Negative .
Experiment 1269 .
The details of this experiment were similar to those of the last .
After the Glossina palpalis had been fed on two oxen whose blood contained Trypanosoma , they were applied daily to a monkey .
They were fed on this monkey for 35 consecutive days and were then transferred to a second monkey .
Both the monkeys remained healthy .
Two of the flies were found on dissection to contain flagellates , but when these were injected into a monkey and a goat no development of Sleeping Sickness took place in these animals .
Res ult.\#151 ; N egative .
Experiment 1672 .
Here again the technique was similar to the last .
The Glossina palpalis were fed , ore alternate days for a lengthened period , on a clean monkey and a clean goat .
Both animals remained healthy .
Some infected flies were found on dissection , but when introduced under the skin of a goat and of a monkey did not give rise to Sleeping Sickness .
Result.\#151 ; Negative .
The next two experiments , which were carried out in the same way as the two preceding ones , were positive .
Experiment 1566 .
The Glossina palpalis were fed on an infected ox , and after a starve of 72 hours were fed on a clean monkey for 45 successive days .
68 days after the flies had taken their first infected feed , this monkey developed Sleeping Sickness .
When the flies came to be dissected , nine of them showed flagellates either in the proboscis or in the alimentary tract .
Some of these were injected into goats and into a monkey , but with negative results .
Result.\#151 ; Positive .
Experiment 1602 .
Fifty laboratory-bred flies were fed for four successive days on an ox whose blood contained Trypanosoma gambiense .
After a period of starvation they were applied to a monkey and to a goat on alternate days .
The monkey died before it could have become infected , but the goat developed Sleeping Sickness 20 days after the flies had their first infected feed .
The remainder of the flies , 32 in all , were dissected , and five were found to contain VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; B. .
2 P 484 Cattle as a Reservoir of the Virus of Sleeping Sickness .
flagellates .
The alimentary contents of one of these flies were injected into a monkey , and after an incubation period of 13 days Trypanosoma gambiense appeared in its blood .
Result .
\#151 ; Posi ti ve .
Conclusion.\#151 ; Laboratory-bred tsetse flies can be infected by feeding them on cattle infected with Sleeping Sickness , and afterwards the disease can be transmitted to healthy animals by means of these flies .
Y. Bo Cattle , when Living in the Fly-area , actually carry the Virus of Sleeping Sickness ?
About seventeen cattle from various sources were examined with this point in view .
Not all these cattle could be proved to have been exposed to the bites of Glossina palpalis , but most of them came from places where these flies are plentiful .
One was positive .
Experiment 1633 .
This cow came from the island of Rome , in Lake Victoria , where human Sleeping Sickness is prevalent and where Glossina palpalis abound .
Trypanosoma gambiense was found in its blood by microscopical examination , and when 3 c.c. of the blood were injected under the skin of a monkey the animal developed Sleeping Sickness after an incubation period of seven days .
Conclusion.\#151 ; This experiment proves that cattle in their natural state , and apparently in good health , may harbour the virus of Sleeping Sickness .
General Conclusions .
It has been proved by experiment that cattle may act as a reservoir of the virus of Sleeping Sickness , and that healthy animals may be infected from them by means of Glossina palpalis .
It has also been proved that cattle in the fly-area do naturally harbour Trypanosoma gambiense .
It is , therefore , possible that the cattle and antelope living in the fly-area may act as a reservoir , and so keep up the infectivity of the Glossina palpalis for an indefinite period , but there is no proof up to the present that this actually takes place in Nature .

