1873 .
] On the Land-Planarians of Ceylon .
169 It is shown that various flames , both earth-connected and isolated , have an exceedingly great power of discharging both kinds of electricity .
The effects in regard to discharge are shown to be similar when platinum wire , rendered hot by a galvanic current , is used , and also when the condensed electricity of a Leyden jar is experimented on .
As hot iron shows a preferential power of discharging \#151 ; over + electricity , so it is found that white-hot but isolated iron refuses to be charged either with -)- or \#151 ; electricity .
As the iron cools , it acquires first the power of receiving \#151 ; and afterwards of receiving + .
Further , while white-hot iron in contact with an electrified body prevents that body from retaining a charge of either kind of electricity , as it cools it permits a + charge to be received , and subsequently a one .
A suggestion is made as to the existence of an electrical coex citiv e force , the presence of which together with its diminution by heat would explain much of what has been described .
February 20 , 1873 .
Rear-Admiral RICHARDS , C.B. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. \lt ; eOn the Anatomy and Histology of the Land-Planarians of Ceylon , with some Account of their Habits , and a Description of two new Species , and with Notes on the Anatomy of some European Aquatic Species/ " By H. N. Moseley , M.A. , Exeter College , Oxford .
Communicated by G. Rolleston , M.D. , Linacre Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in the University of Oxford .
Received January 16 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The writer commences by expressing his great obligations to Professor Rolleston , whose pupil he formerly was .
Professor Rolleston first informed him of the existence of Land-Planarians in Ceylon , and of the importance of investigating them .
The paper was at first intended to be a joint one , and Professor Rolleston himself made a number of preparations of Rhynchodemus , one of which is figured .
He likewise rendered great aid in the bibliography , and by constant suggestions and assistance during the progress of the work .
Two new species of Land-Planarians from Ceylon are described , \#151 ; one belonging to the genus Bipalium ( Stimpson ) , Ceres , the other to that of Rhynchodemus , R. Thwaitesii , so called after Mr. G. H. K. Thwaites , P.R.S. , the illustrious curator of the Peradeniya Gardens , by whose assistance the specimens made use of were procured .
170 Mr. H. N. Moseley on Anatomy and [ Feb. 20 , Lists are given of all the known species of Bipalium and Rhynchodemus , and also a map to show the distribution of Bipalium in space .
With regard to the habits of Bip , the most interesting facts noted are that these animals use a thread of their body-slime- for suspension in air , as aquatic Planarians were observed to do for their suspension in water by Sir J. Dalyell , and the cellar-slug does for its suspension in air .
The projection of small portions of the anterior margin of the head in the form of tentacles , originally observed by M. Humbert , becomes interesting in connexion with the discpvery of a row of papillae and ciliated pits in that region .
The anatomy of the Planarians was studied by means of vertical and longitudinal sections from hardened specimens .
The skin in Bipalium and Rhynchodemus closely conforms to the Planarian type , but is more perfectly differentiated histologically than in aquatic species , and approaches that of the leech in the distribution , colour , and structure of its pigment , and especially in the arrangement of the glandular system .
The superficial and deep glandular system of the leech are both here represented .
In B. Ceres peculiar glandular structures exist , which may foreshadow the segmental organs of Annelids , it being remembered that these segmental organs are solid in an early stage of development .
Eod-like bodies ( Stabchen or stabchenfor-mige Korper ) are present in abundance , though , singularly enough , Max Schultze failed to find any in Oeoplana .
These rod-like bodies are probably homologous with the nail-like bodies of Nemertines ; and it is possible that the setae of Annelids are modifications of them .
No light is thrown by the structure of these bodies in Bipalium on the question whether they are homologous with the urticating organs of Coelenterata .
The muscular arrangement in Bipaliu , which is very complex , throws great light on the homologies between the muscular layers of Turbellaria and those of other Vermes .
It is commonly said that whilst in all other Vermes the external muscular layer is circular , and the longitudinal internal , in Turbellarians the reverse is the case .
A wide gulf is thus apparently placed between these groups .
In Bipalium there is ah .external circular muscular coat , which even presents the same imbricated structure which is found in it in leeches and other worms .
In lacteum there is also an external circular coat .
In cases where a distinct external circular muscular coat is absent , it is represented by a thick membrane , which is very probably contractile .
The question resolves itself simply into a more or less perfect fibrillar differentiation of that membrane .
All Turbellarians are built on the same essential type , as regards muscular arrangement , as are other worms .
The general muscular arrangements in the bodies of the Bipalium and Rhynchodemus have become much modified from those of flat Planarians by the pinching together and condensation of the body , but they are nevertheless referable to the same type .
The digestive tract consists of three tubes ( one anterior , two posterior ) , 1873 .
] Histology of the Land-Planarians of Ceylon .
171 as in other Planarians , and as in the embryo leech before the formation of the anus .
Characteristic of land-Planarians , and consequent on the condensation of the body , is the absence of all diverticulae from the inner aspects of the two posterior digestive tubes .
This is found to be the case in Geoplana , Bipalium , Rhynchodemuand Geoclesmus .
The close approximation of the intestinal diverticula in and and the reduction of the intervening tissue to a mere membranous septum , is very striking , and seems to foreshadow the condition of things in Annelids .
The great difference in the form of the mouth in demus and Bipalium is also remarkable , considering the many points in which these forms are closely allied .
A pair of large water-vascular trunks , or , as they are here termed , primitive vascular trunks , are conspicuous objects in transverse sections of the bodies of Bipalium and RhyneJiodemus .
A peculiar network of connective tissue is characteristic of these vascular canals on section , and is shown to present exactly similar features in Leptoplana Dendroccelum lacteum , and Bothriocephalus The close agreement in the relative position of the oviducts to the vascular canals in Dendroccelum and our land-Planarians is very remarkable .
This primitive vascular system is homologous with the body-cavity present in the embryo leech and in Branchiobdellathroughout life .
It is not necessarily an excretory system , though the term water-vascular system has been generally considered to imply such a function for it .
The nerves and ganglia of Planarians lie within the primitive vascular system , as do the corresponding structures within the primitive body-cavity of the leech .
Branches from the primitive vascular system in Bipalium serve to erect the penis , and probably supply the glandular tissue with fluid for secretion ; others possibly proceed to the ciliated sacs in the head , and perform an excretory function .
A small marine Planarian was found to contain haemoglobin .
In Bipalium there are a series of separate testes disposed in pairs , as in the leech .
In the testicular cavities are more closely packed , and follow no such definite arrangement .
The ovaries are simple sacs in both Bipalium and Rhynchodemus , and are placed very far forwards in the head , a long distance from the uterus .
In Bipalium short branches given off from the posterior positions of the oviduct are the rudiments of a ramified ovary , such as exists in coelum lacteum .
There are also glands present , which probably represent the yelk-glands and shell-making glands of aquatic Planarians in a more or less rudimentary condition .
There is a comparatively simple penis and female receptive cavity in both Bipalium and Rhynchodemus .
In Bipalium there is , further , a glandular cavity at the base of the penis ( prostate ) .
The organs described as nervous ganglia by Blanchard in Polycladus are almost certainly its testes and ovaries ; and therefore the arrangement of these bodies in Polycladus is the same as that in Bipalium .
172 Mr. H. N. Moseley on the Anatomy and [ Feb. 20 , The chain of nervous ganglia described as existing in ( , Sphyrocephalus ) by Schmarda , and which has been referred to by so many authors , does not exist .
There is no doubt that Schmarda mistook the ovaries and testes for ganglia .
The real nervous system is ill-defined , but appears to consist of a network of fibres without ganglion-cells , which lies within the primitive vascular canals .
In Leptoplana laristhe structure of the ganglionic masses is remarkably complex in the arrangement of the fibres ; and well-defined ganglion-cells of various sizes are present and have a definite arrangement .
Numerous eye-spots are present in most of them being grouped in certain regions in the head , but some few being found all over the upper surface of the body , even down to the tail .
The eye-spots appear to be formed by modification of single cells .
In Bhyncho-demus two eyes only are present .
All gradations would appear to exist between the simple unicellular eye-spot of and the more complex eye of Leptoplana or Geodesmus , where the lens is split up into a series of rod-like bodies , forming apparently a stage towards the compound eyes of Articulata .
It is quite probable that these compound eyes have arisen by such a splitting up into separate elements of a single eye , and not by fusion of a group of unicellular eyes , such as those of Bipalium .
A peculiar papillary band runs along the lower portion of the margin of the head of Bipalium .
The delicate papillae are in the form of half cylinders , ranged vertically side by side .
Between the upper extremities of the papillae are the apertures of peculiar ciliated sacs .
The papillae , from the mode in which the animal makes use of them , are probably endowed with a special sense-function .
The sacs may have a similar office , or they may be in connexion with the primitive vascular system , and have an excretory function ; they may further be homologous with the ciliated tubes in Nemertines .
In considering the general anatomy of Bipalium , it is impossible to help being struck by the many points of resemblance between this animal and a leech .
Mr. Herbert Spencer has , in his ' Principles of Biology , placed a gulf between Planarians and Leeches by denoting the former as secondary , the latter as tertiary aggregates , so called because consisting of a series of secondary aggregates formed one behind the other y a proces| of budding .
It is obvious , however , that a single leech is directly comparable to a single Bipalium .
The successive pairs of testes , t e posi tion of the intromittent generative organs , the septa of the digestive trac , and , most of all , the pair of posterior caeca , are evidently homologous m the two animals .
Further , were leeches really tertiary aggregates , the tact would surely come out in their development , or at least some indication of the mode of their genesis would survive in the developmen o some annelid .
Such , however , is not the case .
The young worm 01 eec is at first unsegmented , like a Planarian , and the traces of segmen a 10 appear subsequently in it , just as do the protovertebrae in \ er e ra es 1873 .
] Histology of the Land-Planarians of Ceylon .
173 which Mr. Spencer calls secondary aggregates .
If Mr. Spencer 's hypothesis was correct , we should expect to find at least some Annelid developing its segments in the egg as a series of buds .
It is not , of course , here meant to be concluded that Annelids are not sometimes in a condition of tertiary aggregation , as Nais certainly is when in a hurl fling condition , but that ordinarily they are secondary and not tertiary aggregates ; and if so , then so also are Arthropoda . .
Much more information concerning the anatomy of Planarians will be required before it will be possible to trace the line of descent of and Rhynchodemus , and determine what was the form of their aquatic ancestors .
In the absence of accurate accounts of the structure of the American Land-Planarians , and even of the European Rhynchodemus terrestris , the question is very puzzling .
The formation of either one of the two forms Bipalium or Rhynchodemus might be accounted for with comparative ease , from the arrangement of parts in the flat head of Bipalium .
From the tree-like branching of the digestive tract in that region , the corresponding ramification of the vascular system , and general muscular arrangement , it might be imagined that Bipalium had come from a flattened parent of the common Planarian form , and that all the body except the head had become rounded and endowed with an ainbulacral line .
In nearly all points , except the eyes and the absence of branches to the oviduct , Bipalium seems more highly specialized than Rhynchodemus .
We might imagine that Rhynchodemus and Bipalium had a common parent , and that when an ambulacral line was just beginning to be developed , the two forms took different lines\#151 ; Rhynchodemus losing all traces of the original flatness of its ancestor , and never developing any ciliated sacs or papillae , but cherishing a single pair of large eyes at the expense of all the rest which it possessed , its testes , moreover , remaining in a comparatively primitive condition .
But then comes the difficulty about the great difference in shape in the pharynxes of the two forms ; and if it be suggested that , as is highly probable , several or many aquatic Planarians have taken to terrestrial habits , and that Bipalium has been derived from a form like Leptoplana , with a folded pharynx , whilst Rhynchodemus came from an ancestor with a tubular one , it is difficult to account for the many points of close resemblance between these two forms , and especially their similarity in external colouring , though this latter may perhaps be explained by mimicry .
On the whole , it is evident that a close study of the anatomy of Land-Planarians cannot fail to lead to interesting results , and it is hoped that this memoir may lead to further work of the same kind .
It would be of especial value to have a good account of the anatomy of Geodesmus and Rhynchodemus

