I. " On the Organization of the Brachiopoda .
" By ALBANY HANCOCK , Esq. Communicated by T. H. HUXLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received April 24 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) In the present memoir the author states at length , and fully illustrates by figures , the conclusions to which he has been led by a long series of researches into the anatomy of the Brachiopoda ; investigations which have been conducted with a special reference to the discrepant opinions maintained by Prof. Owen and the older writers on the one hand , and by Prof. Huxley and himself on the other .
Some of the points in dispute have already been discussed in a paper read before the British Association at Cheltenham , and in the present memoir the author not merely reiterates the statements which he then made , but gives a detailed account of the whole organization of the Brachiopoda based upon his dissections of the following species : Waldheimia australis , W. Cranium , Terebratulina caput-serpentis , Rhynchonella psittacea , Lingula anatina , and another species of Lingula .
The Brachiopoda are divisible into two groups , according as the valves of their shells are articulated or not .
[ Waldheimia is the type of the former group , Lingula of the latter .
In the articulated forms there are usually three apertures opening into the pallial chamber ; of these one is the mnouth , the other two are situated at the apices of the organs which have been described as " hearts .
" In ILhynchonella , where there are four such " pseudohearts , " there are of course five apertures instead of three .
In Lingula , which possesses a distinct anus , opening on the right side of the pallial cavity , the apertures into the cavity are four , viz. one oral , one anal , and two appertaining to the pseudo-hearts .
After a description of the general arrangement of the organs in the articulated and non-articulated Brachiopoda , an elaborate account of the various systems of organs is given .
The muscles of the Terebratulidae are divisible according to their functions into two groups , the adductors of the valves , and those which adjust the shell upon the pedicle .
Of the former , or " valvular " muscles , there are three pairs , the adductors , cardinals , and accessory cardinals of previous writers ; which the author prefers to term occlsors ivaors , vaicators , and ccessory ivaricators .
Of the latter there are likewise three pairs , the so-called dorsal and ventral pedicle muscles and the capsular muscle ; these the author terms the dorsal and ventral atjustors , and the peduncular muscle .
The attachment of the muscles in Waldheimia australis and their actions are particularly described .
The peduncular ( capsular ) muscle is shown to be the continuation of the muscular fibres contained within the peduncle .
In the other articulated Brachiopoda examined , the arrangement of the muscles is essentially the same , but interesting differences are observable even in closely allied species .
Thus , in a species differing but little from Waldheimia australis , and in WT .
Cranium , the divaricators and accessory divaricators are united .
In lWaldheimia Cranium and Terebraatulina caput-serpentis the dorsal adjustor muscles are not attached to a hinge-plate , but are inserted into the valve itself .
In Rhynchonella psittacea there is a pair of peduncular muscles .
In Litnula there are six pairs of muscles , all of which have both extremities attached to the valves .
They have been divided into adductors and sliding muscles , the latter again being subdivided into protractors and retractors ; but the author , considering that no sliding motion takes place , regards the latter terms as improper , and gives a set of new names , of which a concordance with the older denominations is subjoined .
Names of homologous Namles in use .
Names proposed .
muscles of articulate Brachiopoda .
Anterior retractors ... .
Anterior occlusors ... ... ... Anterior occlusors .
, Anterior adductors ... ... Posterior occlusors ... ... . .
Posterior occlusors .
Posterior adductors ... . .
Divaricators ... ... ... .
Acessory divaricators .
Central aroror..djustors. .
1 entral adjustors .
'External protractors ... External adjustors. .
, ... Posterior retractors ... Posterior adjustors ... ... ..Dorssal adjustors .
Capsular ... ... ... , .
Peduncular ... ... ... ... ... ... Peduncular .
Anterior parietals .
Posterior parietals .
The author conceives that the valves are separated by the action of the divaricators , combined with that of the parietals ; these muscles compressing the visceral cavity posteriorly , and thus driving its contents into the anterior portion .
The antagonists of these are the occlusors ; while the office of the adjustors appears rather to be to supply the place of a hinge , and to prevent anything like sliding of the valves one over the other .
The muscular fibres of Lingula are smooth and unstriated .
In Waldheimia those of the posterior occlusors are strongly striated , but the rest of the muscles have smooth fibres .
The arms , their attachment and minute structure are next fully described .
In Wfaldheimia the canals of the attached portions of the arms coalesce into a single wide tube , which lies externally between the produced and reflected crura of the calcareous loop , and is separated by a partition from a canal of corresponding size the " brachial sinus , " -which also extends throughout the whole length of the produced and reflected crura , and is in fact a prolongation of the perivisceral chamber .
The cirri are arranged in this and all the other Brachiopoda examined , in a double alternating series---not in a single row , as has hitherto been stated to be the case .
The walls of the brachial canal are tolerably well supplied with delicate muscular fibres , which run diagonally round the tube , and are most strongly developed towards the sides , near the grooved ridge which supports the cirri .
An indistinct band of exceedingly delicate longitudinal fibres may also be observed nearly opposite to it .
The author has however completely failed to discover , either here or in Rhynchonella , anything like the double spiral arranlgements of fibres described by Prof. Owen , and believes that the latter observer has mistaken the blood-seinuss for muscles .
The author doubts whether the spiral coil can be unwound , and conceives that the muscular fibres described , are chiefly for the purpose of giving firm support to the grooved ridge on which the cirri and brachial fold are seated , and thus affording the complex muscular fibres which the ridge contains a better fulcrum whence to act upon the cirri .
In ITerebratulina caput-serpentis , which possesses no calcareous loop , the pallial lobe connecting the produced and reflected portions of the arms is strengthened by calcareous spicula , which are so numerous as to preserve the shape of the part even when the animal basis is removed .
In Lingiua the arms contain two canals ; one , the anterior , being the equivalent of the single canal in Rhynchonella , and , like it , terminating at the side of the oesophagus in a blind sac .
The posterior brachial canal probably communicates with the perivisceral cavity and exhibits a peculiar arrangement of muscles , by whose action perhaps the arm can be exserted .
In addition to those parts of the alimentary canal and its appendages which are already known in the articulated Brachiopoda , the author describes a short median gastro-parietal band arising from the upper surface of the stomach and passing upwards and backwards to the dorsal parietes a little in advance of the hinge-plate .
With regard to the existence or absence of an anal aperture in the articulated Bra6hiopoda , the writer states : " I have made numerous dissections under a powerful doublet , and have removed the part and examined it with a microscope : I have filled the tube with fluid as the fingers of a glove with air , and by pressure have attempted to force a passage : I have tried injections ; but have equally , on all occasions , failed to discover an outlet , and have only succeeded in demonstrating more and more clearly the coecal nature of the terminal extremity of the alimentary canal .
Therefore , how much soever it may be opposed to analogy and to authority , the fact must be recorded-there is no anal orifice in TValdlheimia , Terebratulina , or in Rll ynchonellfa .
" In Linguzla , as in the articulated Brachiopoda , the first inflection of the intestine is towards the ventral surface , but the alimentary canal eventually ends in the easily observable anus placed nearer the dorsal than the ventral surface , on the right side of the body .
The rudimentary mesentery , and the lateral gastro-parietal and ilio-parietal bands of Lingula are described .
There is no median gastro-parietal band .
Faecal matter rolled into round pellets is commonly observable in the intestine of Lingula , while no feeces are ever found in that of the articulated Brachiopoda .
The genitalia in the articulate Brachiopoda are developed between the two membranes of which the inner wall of the pallial sinuses in which they are contained is composed , and , thrusting the inner of the two membranes from the outer , form a prominent mass connected by a band with the inferior wall of the sinus .
The genital artery runs along the upper or outer edge of the band , and the genitalia are developed round it .
In Lingula the reproductive organs are withdrawn from the mantle and lodged within the visceral chamber , forming four irregularly lobulated or branched masses , two above and two below the alimentary canal , so that they may be distinguished as dorsal and ventral genital masses .
The dorsal ovaries are suspended by the ilio-parietal bands , and the ventral by the continuation of these bands along the free margins of the pseudo-hearts .
In both cases the attachment is along the margins of the bands , which are related to the genitalia much in the same manner as the suspending membrane is to the genital bands in Waldheimia ; and it would seem that in Lingula the reproductive organs are really developed between the two layers composing the ilio-parietal bands .
The auithor adduces arguments to show that the Lingulce are hermaphrodite , the testis being a reddish mass , which ramifies over the true ovary .
The ova probably make their way out by the so-called " hearts , " which open by their apices into the pallial cavity , and by their patulous bases ( the so-called auricles ) into the perivisceral chamber , and are hence capable of performing the functions of oviducts .
The author has assured himself of the constant presence of the apical aperture of the pseudo-heart in all Brachiopoda .
As pointed out by Prof. Huxley , there are four of these pseudo-hearts in Rhynchonella , but only two were found in the other Brachiopoda examined .
The pseudo-hearts have nothing to do with the propulsion of the blood , a function which is performed chiefly by the pyriform vesicle discovered by Prof. Huxley in Waldheimia and Rhynchonella , and which was found attached to the stomach in all the Brachiopoda examined .
It is composed of two layers , the inner distinctly mlscular , the outer transparent and homogeneous .
Connected with this heart are vessels or blood-channels ( particularly described in the Memoirs ) ; the " venous canals , " which open into it anteriorly , returning the blood conveyed by the posterior arterial channels into the system of peripheral sinuses originally described by Prof. HIuxley .
Accessory " 'hearts " or pulsatile vesicles have been found in some of the articulated Brachiopoda ; the mantle and the walls of the body are essentially composed of a plate of substance traversed by reticulated lacunm , and lined upon each side with epithelium .
After explaining at length the distribution of the lacunm throughout the mantle , the sheath of the intestine , its bands , the genital folds , the arms , &amp;c. , the author proceeds to give the following sketch of the course of the circulation : " Having now gone over all that I have been able to ascertain with respect to the central and peripheral portions of the circulatory apparatus , and having also examined the lacunes and blood-canals of the brachial organs , it will not be difficult to follow the flow of the blood throughout its entire course in Waldheimia ; and as it is in it , so will it be in all probability in all other Brachiopods .
" It has been shown that the heart is a simple , unilocular , pyriform vesicle , suspended from the dorsal aspect of the stomach , and projecting freely into the perivisceral chamber ; that there is neither auricle nor pericardium , -unless the membrane which closely invests it can be so called , -that it is hardly more complex in structure than the pulsating vessel of the Tunicata ; and that in Lingula , indeed , it scarcely at all differs from the heart of these lowly organized mollusks .
This vesicle , or heart , propels the blood through four arterial trunks or channels , to the reproductive organs and mantle , and probably also to the alimentary tube , and is apparently assisted by four or more pulsating vesicles in connexion with these principal trunks .
The blood thus conveyed by the genital or pallial arteries will escape by the lacunes in the membranes suspending the genitalia , into the plexus in the floor of the great pallial sinuses .
Thence it will find its way into the outer lacunary system of the pallial lobes , and into that of the dorsal and ventral walls of the body , as well as into the lacunes of the anterior parietes .
Having saturated all these parts of the peripheral system , it will divide itself into two currents , one of which will set backwards in the direction of the membranous bands connecting the alimentary tube to the parietes , and will flow through their channels into the system of visceral lacunes , which encircle the alimentary canal within the sheath , and which probably carry blood to the liver .
This current will also supply blood to the lacunes nourishing the muscles .
The blood thus directed will reach the branchio-systemic vein , either by the great oesophageal lacunes , or through the foramina which penetrate the sides of the channel as it runs along the dorsal ridge of the stomach .
" The other blood-current will set forward in the direction of the base of the arms , and some of it will pass into these organs through their general system of lacunes ; but the principal portion will be carried by the afferent brachial canal to the extensive plexus of lacunes in those parts , and will circulate , in the manner before pointed out , within the walls of the great brachial canal .
The blood will then be drawn up one side of the cirri through the vesselsthe afferent brachial arteries-originating in the great brachial plexus , and returning down the other , will be poured into the efferent brachial canal , and thus reach the lateral efferent sinuses at the root of the oesophagus .
Thence it will enter the great oesophageal lacunes , and there meeting with the other current of returning blood from the visceral lacunes , will be carried to the heart by the branchio-systemic vein along the dorsal side of the stomach .
" Thus it is perceived that the blood finds its way back to the central organ in a mixed condition .
That which is conveyed by the gastro-parietal and other bands will be imperfectly aerated , having only flowed through the pallial membranes , which must be looked upon as but accessory oxygenating agents .
The arms undoubtedly perform the office of gills , and are true respiratory organs .
The blood which circulates through them will consequently be returned in a perfectly aerated condition , to be mixed , however , with that in a less pure state from the visceral lacunes before it enters the heart .
This mixed state of the blood is not by any means peculiar to these animals , for it obtains in many of even the higher mollusks .
" The perivisceral cavity and the great pallial sinuses have no communication with the proper blood-vascular system , but are to be conmpared to the atrium of the Ascidianida , and the water-chambers of the Cephalopoda and other mollusca .
The pseudo-hearts enable the perivisceral cavity to communicate with the exterior , and convey away the genital , and probably the renal products .
On this head the author says:"From the foregoing account of the circulatory apparatus , it would appear that the perivisceral chamber , and its various so-called vascular ramifications in the mantle , are not connected with the blood-system .
This is no doubt a startling fact .
I commenced the present investigation fully imbued with the opinion that these parts were blood reservoirs and channels , and I only relinquished it when it became no longer tenable .
Step by step the points relied on had to be abandoned , until at length the full conviction was arrived at that I had been seeking to establish a fallacy .
I have been unable to discover any communication between the true blood-system and the pseudo-vascular ramifications in the mantle or the perivisceral chamber .
Injections were thrown into this chamber , but none of the fluid found its way into any part of the lacunary system .
The pallial lobes were removed , and the great pallial sinuses distended to their fullest capacity , with exactly the same result ; and it was not until the tissues were ruptured on applying great pressure , that a little of the injected matter was extravasated into the peripheral lacunes .
The perivisceral chamber , then , and all its various ramifications , are in no way connected with the true blood-system .
" The nervous system of the articulated Brachiopoda is described at length .
Besides the principal subcesophageal ganglion , two minute enlargements are shown to exist upon the anterior part of the oesophageal commissure , and two small pyriform ganglia are described in connexion with the under part of the principal ganglion .
The peripheral nerves are minutely traced out , and two peduncular nerves , not hitherto known to exist , are described .
The author denies the existence of the so-called " circumpallial " nerves .
He has been unable to detect the nervous centres in Lingula , and he is inclined to regard the cords , described as nerves in that genus by Prof. Owen , as blood-sinuses .
The author next makes some remarks on the structure of the shell , pointing out that in Terebratulina caput-serpentis there are two distinct layers , an external and an internal ; and he then draws attention to the important anatomical characters which separate the articulated Brachiopoda as a group from the inarticulate division .
In conclusion , the author draws a parallel between the Brachiopoda and the Polyzoa , demonstrating the close structural conformity between these two groups .

