Experiments and Observations on the Light which is spontaneously emitted , with some degree of Permanency , from various Bodies .
By Nathaniel Hulme , M.D. F.R.S. and A.S. Read Feb. 13 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 161 .
] The light which is the object of the present inquiry must be distinguished not only from that which we derive from the sun , but also from the brightness exhibited by artificial phosphori , electricity , meteors , and other lucid emanations .
The principal bodies which afford the light here treated of , are , 1 ) Some vegetable and earthy substances , such as rotten wood , and peat earth .
2 ) Marine animals , some in a living state , viz. the Medusa phosphorea , the Pholas , the Pennatula phosphorea , and the Cancer fulgens ; and most of the marine fishes soon after they are deprived of life .
3 ) Animal flesh in general , some time after the extinction of life .
And , 4 ) Among insects8 the creeping glow-worm , the flying glow-worm , the fire-fly , and the great lantern-fly .
The numerous experiments described in this paper were chiefly made on marine animals , particularly herrings and mackerel , which were exposed either in the air , or in water impregnated with different salts , and of different temperatures , in a dark vault to which the Doctor assigns the name of his laboratory .
The results obtained in this investigation are described in nine sections , the summary contents of which are as follows : 1 .
The quantity of light emitted by putrescent animal substances does not arise from the greater degree of putrefaction in such substances , as is commonly supposed ; but , on the contrary , they begin to shine some time before any apparent signs of putrefaction take place , and the greater the putrescence , the less is the quantity of light emitted .
2 .
Light is a chemical element , or a constituent principle of some bodies , and particularly of marine fishes ; and it may be separated from them by a peculiar process , or be retained , and rendered permanent for some time .
The experiments from whence this inference is derived were made with pieces of herrings and mackerel , and with living tadpoles immersed in solutions of Epsom salt , sea salt , Glauber 's salt , and in all which a quantity of light was manifestly imparted to the saline menstruum , which the latter under various circumstances retained for a considerable time .
These experiments seem also to evince , that light is not partially but wholly incorporated with every particle of the animal substance ; that it is probably the first elementary principle that escapes after the death of fishes ; and that as the putrescence was by no means promoted , but rather retarded by this emission of light , it is highly probable that no offensive putrefaction ever takes place at sea after the death of such myriads of animals as must needs daily perish in the vast ocean , which hence continue long a wholesome food to the many kinds of fish that feed upon their congeneries .
3 .
Some bodies or substances have a power of extinguishing spontaneous light when it is applied to them .
These are water , both pure and impregnated with quick lime , carbonic acid gas , and hepatic gas , fermented liquors , ardent spirits , fixed and volatile alkalies , certain neutral salts , vegetable infusions , pure honey , and the rust of iron , calamine , minium , and manganese dissolved in water .
4 .
Other bodies or substances have a power of retaining spontaneous light for some time when it is applied to them .
These substances are most of the solutions mentioned in the second article , which , when impregnated with some of the lucific matter scraped from herrings and mackerel , retain the light for some days , especially if assisted with some agitation of the phial containing them .
The appearances here exhibited are described as being both beautiful and surprising , as they enable us to take light from one substance and transfer it to another , so as to render the latter most brilliantly luminous ; or in other words to impregnate a liquid with light .
5 .
When spontaneous light is extinguished by some bodies or substances , it is not lost , but may be again revived in its former splendour , and that by the most simple means .
These means are in general the greater or less degrees of impregnation of the saline menstrua , which alternately extinguish and revive the light at the option of the operator .
6 .
Spontaneous light is not accompanied with any degree of sensible heat , to be discovered by a thermometer .
7 .
Cold extinguishes spontaneous light , but not permanently , as the substances mentioned in the third article ; since here the light could be revived in its full splendour , by exposing the substance to a moderate degree of temperature .
8 .
The eighth section treats of the effects of heat on light when in a state of spontaneous union .
We gather from the experiments here described , that in every substance there is a certain point of temperature at which it acquires its maximum of lustre ; that this varies considerably in various substances , the fishes , rotten wood , and aqueous solutions , becoming dark at a temperature of between 960 and 1100 ; while glow-worms retain their lustre until exposed to the degree of boiling water .
Common water impregnated with light , when by mere time and rest , without any considerable change of temperature , it had become obscure , was soon rendered luminous when gradually warmed by small and successive additions of warm water ; but no sooner was boiling water added in any considerable quantity , than the luminous appearance vanished , and was altogether extinguished .
It iras here observed , that if heat be applied to the bottom of a tube filled with illuminated water which has been some time at rest , the light will descend in luminous streams from the top of the tube to the bottom , and be gradually extinguished .
9 .
In the ninth and last section we find a set of experiments on the effects of spontaneous light when applied to the human body .
As to the living body , it was found that on touching the luminous matter of fishes , the light adhered copiously to the fingers and different parts of the hands , remained very lucid for some time , but then gradually disappeared ; whereas the same kind of matter being applied to pieces of wood , stone , and the like , of the same temperature as the laboratory , continued luminous on these substances for many hours .
It might hence be inferred that the living body ultimately absorbs the light ; but other experiments seem to contradict this inference , it having been observed that a piece of shining wood being placed on the palm of the hand , and a glow-worm being breathed upon repeatedly , were both rendered more luminous , and this for a considerable time .
As to the animal fluids ; the crassamentum of the blood of healthy persons , and also of some labouring under inflammatory diseases , received indeed the light of a herring to a certain degree , but did not retain it long : and when this coagulum had been kept for some time , and showed marks of putrescence , the light seemed to be more quickly extinguished .
In some instances the light was ejected in globules , like quicksilver when rubbed with any unctuous substance , and afterwards adhered to the sides of the vessel in the form of a lucid ring .
The serum both of healthy and diseased persons retained the luminous appearance somewhat longer than the crassamentum , and frequently recovered it when agitated .
Urine , both fresh and stale , and bile , showed little disposition to retain this light .
Lastly , milk and cream , illuminated by mackerel light , acquired great brightness , and retained it for upwards of twenty-four hours ; but when either of these turned sour , they contracted a very extinguishing property , the light in some case vanishing almost instantaneously .

