]\gt ; GENERAL J. .
WALKER ON INDIA'S CON'I ' ) .
749 Though the base-line measurements were invariably carried on under teuts , for the potection of the ) and microscopes from the rays of the sun , it S0011 found the lengths of the compound bars did not ) constant througl } the day ; they were consequently compared systematically with the standard 10-foot iron bnr of the Survey three days before and afber the measurement of each base-line , the lame hours as the actual measurements , and their lengths were assigned ccordingly .
It was at first supposed that the compensation points had not been oxactly fixed by the makers ; but eventually it was found at the Cape Comorin base-line\mdash ; where a line of about one-fourth the usual length was measured over four times , in order to test the apparatus\mdash ; that whichever of the two components of a bar yas rest the sun acquired heat most rapidly , notwithstanding that they side by side in stout deal case , and were further protected by tents .
The variations in length , however , though very seusible under high microscopic power , were not of a material tude ; and as in the comparisons of the compound bars with the which were made at each base-line , the bars were invnriablv set parallel to the line of the measurement and compared during hours which the surementct were made , the errors arising ' from the val.iations in length must been largely eliminated .
The mathematical probable ; of the base-iines investi ters i itld .
of vol. 1 , where it is shown that all the tenl base-lines ) practically regarded as of equal weight , and ) errors lIlay be taken equal to millionth parts of the length , which corresponds to 108 feet in the length of the polar axis of the earth .
The Principal Triangulation .
The princi p angles were all measured with theodolites whuse ci cles ranged from 36 inches down to in , the circles furnished with five and the .
with three micrometer ) ding ) ' the graduations .
More than three-fourths of the angles were measured with theodolites having circles of 24 or 36 inches in meter .
All the instruments described in Appendix No. 2 of vol. 2 of Account of The between which the angles were measured were invariably ninu heliotropes by day , and lamps by night .
The system of operation was specially devised ) a view to inato t tion errors of the azimuthal circles to the utmost possible extent , angular shifts in the position of the zero of the circle in the course of tho : 1neasurements of each angle , so that the microscope rluring the telescol pointings to any object might be taken several ' points the circle .
The distances were taken first at and atterwards at , for circles with five microscopes , and at for circles with three microscopes , producing a greater number 01 changes of zero for the latter than for the former .
Thus in esul l GENERAL J. .
WALKER ON INDIA'S TO ODESY .
The values of the probable error which were obtained from examination of the triatlgular and polygonal eometrical errors give results which slightly exceed the above values , excepting in the case of and SIMIVIS ' 18-inch theodolite , No. 1 ; this instrument has been found to have a large periodic error , which becomes eliminated by the adopted method of changing zero , as is shown in Appendix No. 4 , vol. 2 ; its true theoretical ) robable error is only about one-third of the quantity shown in the preceding table .
The several series of triangles are composed sometimes of single triangles , but most freq of polygonal figures , which self-verificatory , and add considerable weight to the tri ngulation , The single triangles mainly to the portions of the tl.iangula tion ving wholly in the plains which were first completed , but , as the wolk proceeded , polygonal figures were nployed in plains as well as hill districts .
During the recess following each field season , the reduction of the observations was taken in hand , the weight of each angle was determined , the corrections to the observed angles , which were necessary to satisfy the geometrical conditions involved , were computed by the method of minimum squares , t , he gths and azimnths of the sides , and the hxtitndes and longitudes nd heights of the stations were calculated ; the secondary triangulation treated somewhat similarly , but with less precision , and thus the work of the previous field-season was rendered available for immediate topographical requirements .
But it will be obvious that as the several chains of triangles became co1npleted , closing on each other and on the base lines , discrepancies would be met with in the values of length , azimuth , latitude , and longitude , which would be presented by the different chains at the sides ofjunction .
In order to make the triangulation consistent throughout , it was necessary to eliminate these discrepancies by the application of small corrections to the whole of the angles , and it became a matter of great importtnce to decide how this should be done .
To do it with strict theoretical nicety would necessitate the simultaneous reduction of the whole of the triangulation which would *TltOUGHTON and SIMMS ' 36-inch theodolite and their two 18-inch theodolites were landed in India in 1830 .
The larger instrument was excellently divided by hand by Mr. .
The two smaller instruments are alleged to have been divided upon TltOUGHTON'S first dividing engine , but the marked diffcrences in their performances , and the existenco of a considerable periodic error in No. 1 , from which No. 2 is free , indicate differences in the method of graduating .
The iginal dividing engine was found to be faulty , and was snperseded by the celebrated dividing engine which was completed in the yetl 1842 , and has vards been employed in graduating all the large circles manufactured by this firm .
Their two 24-inch theodolites which appear in the list on p. 751 , were received in India in 1848 , and were )lated by the new machine .
In the same year BARROW'S two 24-inch theodolites were received ; they arc remarkably well graduated instrnments ; the angles measured with No. 2 in the North-Wesb Quadrilateral show the smallest probable of any of the observed angles ; they were , however , measured ulldel exceptionally favourable atmosphel.ic conditions .
-inch theodolites were put togethel in Calcutta in 1846 from the parts of other ; most of the other 18-inch and 15-inch were similal'ly constructed , and they all date back to some period anterior to 1830 .
figures for Northern and Central India a tri for the outhern Pinsula .
The northern sect , ions lie ou either side of the Great Arc at the station of Kalianpur , in India , which Colonel dopted the origin of the geodetic calculations of the survey ; they are respectively called the North-East Quadrilateral , the North-West Quadrilateral , the Quadrilateral , South-West Quadrilateral ; the fifth sect , ion is called the Southern , and is bisected by the Great Arc. In the simultaneous solutions of the several sections much simplification was rendered by the circumstance } , when large number of independent equations has to be treated , we may select and solve any groups we please , independently , and apply corrections t.o the nngles as deduced without prejudice to the most probable values of the tely , provided the whoie of ' the equations are finally solved simultaneously with such absolute terms as exist after the approximations have been .
An } ) first approximation had been made by the correction ] of the observed yalues of the angles for the ical errors of and polygonal figures to which they respectively , ) ; thus , each polygonal ulation might be converted into a chain of single by employing the triangles on one flank of the polygons and discarding those on the other flank , and , as the angles had adready been made consistent , it did matter which flank was employed .
After the final values of the angles adopted flank had been obtained by the solution , those for the angles could be readily obtained , figure by , and thus the whole triangulation would be finally adjusted .
It is here desirable to observe that the numerous astronomical determinat.ions of azimuth , latitude , and differential longitude which have been made at various stations of the Survey , furnish a number of external and independent facts of observation with which the triangulation might have been brought into kccordarlce .
The azimuths terdependent , so that a single error might vitiate the results , great precautions had , be taken to eliminate error in each stage of the computations before proceeding to he next stage .
A description of the practical procedure in the case of the Northest Quadrilateral is given by Mr. HENNESSEY in Appendix No. 12 to vol. 2 .
Some odifications and improvements were introduced in the treatment of the subsequent ctions by Colonel HERSCHEL and Mr. W. H. COLE .
But in every instance the duction was a very anxious as well as laborious operation , and its successful .ompletion was a matter of much gratulation and satisfaction .
numerical values of the several discrepancies in ] , azimuth , latitude , and at the sides of junction of the chains of triangles and at the base-lines , hich were met with in each of the sections , and adjusted by the processes of simultaneous reduction , will now be exhibited .
Afterwards the magnitudes of the oorrections to the angles which resulted from the calculations will be set forth .
The North-West Quadrilateral .
The outlines of this figure , as completed up to the time when its final reduction was taken in hand , are given in this sketch .
The magnitudes of the angular corrections range from to ; the following table shows the number of corrections of each magnitude which were applied in each section .
GENERAL J. T. WALKER ON RIBUTION .
TO .
763 unit of length of the Survey is the 10-foot standard iron bar A whose relations to other well-known standards are as follows at the temperature of F. Indian 10-foot bar in English standard yards .
I4821 lines of the toise .
, , 304795942 in millimeters .
\ldquo ; The adopted origin of the Survey is the trigonometrical station of ianpur , near the Sironj base-line , in Central India .
The latitude of this station was determined by EVEREST as from astronomical observations taken in 1825 and 1839-41 , and that value is the basis of all the geodetic latitudes of the Survey .
Subsequently additional observations were taken at Kalianpur , and the whole were finally reduced with the latest and best values of star places , as described in vol. Il , ' Astronomical Latitudes ; ' the value was then obtained .
Thus a correction has to be applied to all the geodetic latitudes to reduce them to the final value of the latitude of the origin .
The azimuth was determined astronomically at Kali npur , and eventually a large number of around ; a comparison of the subsequent determinatiuns with the initial azimuth , through the triangulation , led to its receiving a correction of for local attraction ; see section 4 , chap .
xi .
, vol. 2 .
Thus ected it became the fundamental of the final geodetic calculations .
As the elements of the Earth 's figure adopted for the geodetic calculations so long ago as 1830 are not so accurate as those lately determined from fuller , it is necessary here to give as much of the formulae employed as is required to facilitate the conversion of the given latitudes and longitudes to the values which would have been obtained had other elements been employed .
The formulae were devised by PUISSANT for the solution of the problem , \mdash ; Given the latitude and longitude of a station the azimuth at A of a station , and the distance of from , to find longitude of , and the azimuth of A at B. Let and be the major and the minor semi-axes , the eccentricity the radius of curvature to the meridiall in latitude the normal to the meridian in the same latitude , and the given latitude and longitude of , and the given azimuth of at and the required latitude and longitude of and the required azimuth of A ab ; also let be the distance between A and at the sea level .
Then , all azimuths being measured from the south , we have NDCCCXCV. .
5 or osec .
A Each quantity is the sum of four terms which are respectively symbolised with the aid of the four prefixes , and ; thus we have with respect to and we have GENERAL J. T. WALKER ON INDIA'S CONTRIBUTION TO GEODESY .
Also The most probable values of the Earth 's axes at present known are those in Colonel CLARKE'S ' Geodesy ' from his latest investigations .
to them , the errors of the elements of the Indian Survey are feet , and feet .
Inserting these values in the above expressions we have , with sufficient approximation , The corresponding corrections to arcs of 1o in latitude and 1o in longitude , for successive parallels apart , are as follow:\mdash ; Corresponding corrections to the primarily computed latitudes and arcs of longitude are given hereafter in the investigations of local attraction .
GENERAL J. T. WALKER ON INDIA'S CONTRIBUTION TO GEODESY .
tematic reversals of the pivots in the 's were also made in order that the circles might be brought in turn opposite the fixed and the flying microscopes .
For full details and drawings , see vol. 11 .
With these two astronomical circles , EVEREST and WAUGH determined the arcs of amplitude of the two northern sections of the Great Arc , in the years 1839-41 ; simultaneous observations were taken to eighteen pairs of stars , situated half to the north and half to the south of the zeniths of the two stations , and the same stars were observed at both stations in order to eliminate errors of star 's place .
Astronomical observations were then suspended for more than 20 years , during which the strength of the department was wholly devoted to the triangulation .
In 1863 two astronomical parties were formed for purpose of making the recent triangulation subservient to geodesy by the measurement not only of additional meridion al arcs , but of longitudinal arcs also , which the recent completion of telegraph lines all over the country had rendered possible .
The two astronomical circles being very heavy and difficult to carry about , two zenith sectors were designed by Colonel STRANGE\mdash ; a retired officer of this Survey\mdash ; and were constructed under his superintendence for observing latitudes .
] descriptions and drawings of them are given in vo ] .
11 , but they must be very briefly described here .
Each instrument has a pair of sectors , of arnplitude with radius of 18 inches , lying opposite each other in a single casting of brass ; they were graduated by TROUGHTON and SIMM'S celebrated dividing ngine , on strips of silver hammered into grooves in the brass .
The sector plate is permanently attached to the telescope , at right , so that the two move together .
The sectors are read by four microscopes which are attached to a fixed horizon t frame , in pairs , apart , one pair for each sector .
The extreme ran of star observation is on either side of the zenith .
Every star is observed in the two positions , " " telescope \ldquo ; and\ldquo ; teIescope west\ldquo ; in rapid succession , the first observation being taken about 20 seconds and the last as much after , transit over the meridian .
One or other of the two astronomical circles and the two new zenith sectors was employed in all the latitude observations up to the field season of 1890-91 .
A zen ith telescope was then introduced the first time ; it has no vertical arcs , but determines the latitudes by measuring the differences of the zenith distances of north and south stars of nearly equal zenith distance with a micrometer in the eye-piec , , in accordance with what is known as the TALCOTT method of observation .
The latitude observations after the year 1862 were first taken at additional stations on the Great Arc at distances of about a , part ; afterwards at groups of stations composed of one principal and a few secondary stations situated around and a few miles of the principal , to ascertain whether there were any local variations of density under the surface of the ground to produce deflections of the plumb-line as had been met with on the plains of Moscow .
Additional stations were introduced on and in the neighbourhood of the Himalayan Mountains to ascertain the of the Bombay and the Bider longitudinaJ series .
Latitudes have been observed at 161 stations in all , for a considerable majority } which full details are given in vol. 11 ; for the inder the details have not been published , but I am able to give a synopsis of the results which has been municated to me in manuscript .
For the computation of the latitudes in vol. 11 a very careful investigation of .
the places of all the employed was made from twenty-one star catalogues , of which the five Greenwich Catalogues for 1840 , 1845 , 1860 , 1864 , and 1872 , and Madler 's for 1850 were mainly depended upon .
Whenever a star was found in these six catalogues its place was taken from those which gave results within of themean ; if at least thres gave accordant results the mean was accepted ; if the star only appeared in two of them , then other catalogues were ] oyed .
A cataloguo was prepared for the computation which shows the value given by each authority , as .
well that which was finally adopted .
There are 111 latitude statiols in vol. 11 ; at 94 of these the observations were taken with one or other of the two circles by TROUGHTON and SrNNS , or the two zenith sectors by STRANGp ; at five they were taken with one of these instruments and also with RAMSDEN'S zenith sector , at five more with RAMSDEN'S zenith sector only ; in five cases they were taken with the 18-inch vertical circle of one of the 36-inch or the 24-inch theodolites ; and in two cases , in the Himalayan Mountains , with the 10-inch vertical ors of a 14-inch theodolite .
As it is a well known fact that some instruments have a tendency to exhibit more less constant differences between latitudes deduced from north stars and those deduced from south stars , it been generally a rule to observe as many north as south stars at each station .
In the final reductions , even when this rule has not been followed , a value of the latitude is always deduced from the north stars and another from the south stars , and the arithmetical mean of the two is adopted for the final value .
Astronomical Circle No. 2 , and STRANGE'S Zenith Sector No. 2 , have given throughout which do not show constant differences between north and south stars .
The two sister instruments have , however , shown marked constant differences , whioh must be here noticed , though it is believed that the errors of each are cancelled in the means .
GENERAL J. T. ON INDIA'S CONTRIBUTION TO GEODESY .
-.w : .
Astronomical rele No. 1 gives the following values of South : In 1839-40 , at npfr . . . . . . . . . .
, , 1840-41 , at Damergida . . . . . . .
, , 1855 , at Kurrachee . . . . . . . . . . . .
, , 1864 , mean of five stations . . . . . . . .
1865 .
mean of six stations . . . . . . . . .
, , 1866 , January and February , mean jour stations , , 1866 , October , to 1867 , October , four stations . . . .
The instrument must have met with some mishap between February and October , 1866 , but the nature of the mishap has baffled all search .
As a check the latitude was re-observed at two of the stations of the last group with Astronomical Circle No. 2 , and results were obtained very closely coinciding with the means of north and 1867 .
STRANGE'S Zenith Sector No. 1 has invariably given greater latitudes by south than by north stars ; the difference increases systematically with the zenith distance , rising from for a mean zenith distance of to f'or The latitudes by south stars being greatest , the zenith distances are too great ; this suggests that the sector may have contracted after having been graduated ; the graduation is known to have been performed when the sector was a new casting , which may have undergone some change before finally settling down .
The sister sector is believed not to have been graduated until some time after the casting .
Whatever the cause , it has been recently shown that the mean of north and south stars is free from error , for the instrument has been employed at three stations both as a zenith sector and as a zenith telescope , and the latitudes obtained from the sectors differed ] than from the values with the telescope alone .
The following tables give the results of the latitude observations at each station , together with the longitude of the station and its height above the sea-level , the instrument employed , and the year of observation .
The first table has been wholly abstracted from vol. 11 ; the second gives results which have not yet been published .
A majority of the stations are principal stations of the great triangulation ; but in certain localities the latitude has been observed at several points around a principal station whose positions were fixed by secondary triangulation ; such points practically as valuable for geodetic purposes as the principal stations , but they are entered as secondaries in the tables . .
GENERAL J. T. WALKER ON INDIA'S CONTRIBUTION TO GEOIJESY .
XDCCCXC7.\mdash ; A. 5 GENERAL J. T. WALKLK ON NNDIA'S CONTRIBUT [ ON TO GEODESY .
GENERAL J. T. WALKER ON INDIA'S CONTRIBUTION TO GEODESY . .
co co cv cv cv co co GENERAL J. T. WALKER ON INDIA'S CONTRIBUTIoN TO DETERMINATIONS of Latitude , hitherto publish e The latitude of Khanpisura obtained in 1870 being ( vol. 9 ) , the value to be adopted is most convenient form for future investigations ; for all localities in which of stations have been observed , with a view to cancelling the effects of local attraction as much as sible , is obviously necessary to employ the mean of all the nomical and the mean of all the geodetic values , instead of the individual values ; the hypothetical points thus introduced are as serviceable for geodetic investigations as the actual points of observation .
And this process must be extended to wider regions , where there was no intentional grouping of stations ; thus where several astronomical latitudes are forthcoming within a meridional belt of moderate bl.eadth\mdash ; say not much , so as not to be sensibly influenced by the flattening between the equator and the poles\mdash ; the mean of these will obviously be less affected by local attraction than the single values , and will therefore represent a truer value of the astronomical latitude ; either this must be done or some of the astronomical data must be arbitrarily rejected .
For example : on the Great Arc there are five stations between the parallels of and ; three of them are LAMBTON'S vir Doddagunta to the south showing nort , herly attraction , and Bommasundra and Pavagada to the north , showing southerly attraction ; LAMBTON expressly stated his belief that the plumb-line was deflected in opposite directions by intermediate masses between the north and south stations ; but in their investigations of the figure of the earth , both BESSEL and CLARKE have rejected the northern stations and ployed the southern one only .
Since then wo southern stations have been added , at the ends of the Bangalore base-line near Doddagunta , which also show northerly attraction ; and it now seems obviously necessary to accept the mean of all the stations or to reject them all , rather than to some and reject the others .
Thus the principle of grouping has , whenever practicable , been carried through the following tabular presentation of nical and geodetic latitudes .
Separate tables have been prepared for the Great Arc , for the meridians of bas been applied to all the geodetic latitudes in the published volumes and the addenda to obtain the values given in these tables .
In the tables th geodetic values are those which were obtained with the elements . .
of the Earth 's , which EVEREST computed in , and have ever since been employed in all the geodetic of the Indian Survey .
The quantities \mdash ; are the differences veen them and the astronomical values .
The quantities those which would have been obtained if CLARKE'S latest elements had been employed instead ; they are shown iu the table for ayan stations and also in uent tables .
The last column of these tables gives rougb statements as to whether there is any apparent meridional attraction any station , and if so , whetber its direction is northerly or , and its amount small or .
In most instances this information is supplied the notes of the , otherwise is estimated the details in the sheets of the Atlas .
JTION TO GEODESY .
: TO GEODESY 78 CONTRIBUTION TO : GENERAL J. .
WALKER ON INDIA'S CONTRIBUTION TO GEODESY .
: .
GENERAL J. T. WALKER ON INDIA'S .
CONTRIBUTION TO GEODESY .
787 $ : ae oococo $ ae CONTRIBUTION TO .
789 GENERAL J. T. WALKER ON IND ] ; coco GENERAL J. T. WALKER ON INDIA'S CONTRIBUTION TO GEODESY .
THE LoNGlTUDINAL ARCS .
These arcs lie between certain stations of the triangulation which have been put into connection with the wires of the great electric telegraph lines , thus comparisons to be made between the geodetic and the astronomical differences of longitude .
Two transit instruments collimators , two astronomical clocks , and two chronographs , with such other electric appliances as were necessary , were obtained from England for the operations .
Colonel STRANGE\mdash ; a retired officer of the Survey who was then in charge of the Mathematical Instrument l)epartment of che India Office -was entrusted with the provision of the apparatus ; and he employed Messrs. COOKE and SONS of York for the construction of the transit instruments and their collimators , Messrs. FRODSHAM of London for the clocks , and Messrs. ICHEN a HARDY of Paris for chronographs and electric applial ) .
Full descriptions and drawings of the instruments are given in vol. 9 of the Accounts of the Operations , \amp ; c. ; a brief description is all that is needed here .
The transit instruments were constructed , one of gun-metal , the other of aluminiumbronze ; their telescopes have a focal length of nearly 6 feet and are furnished with 5-inch object glasses .
For portability are constructed in three pieces , viz. , the axis , the object end and the eye end , which travel in separate cases .
The axis has a central cube having -inch sides with conical arms tapering outwards from to 3 inches in diameter , and terminating in enlarged cylindrical shoulders inches in diameter and 2 inches wide , into each of which a steel pivot is shrunk which projects inches beyond the shoulders ; the total lengtb of the axis is 373 inches , and the thickness of metal is about inch throughout , the cube and cones being r , ast in one piece .
The steel inches in diameter , one having a perforation incl ] in diameter , through which light is passed for the illumination of the wires .
The object and eye end tubes of the telescope are attached to the cube of the axis by 12 powerful steel bolts which pass through a projecting flange at the base of each tube and screw into the metal of the cube .
The two faces of the cube which are at right angles to the faces carrying the telescope are perforated in their by -inch openings through which the collimators are set on each other .
The eye piece is fitted with two diaphragms , one containing a single vertical and two horizontal wires , the other a set of 25 vertical wires arranged in groups of 5 each for the observation of startrallsits , the former fixed , but the latter a micrometer screw .
Two kinds ofillumination are provided , which give the observer a choice of either dark wires in a bright field or bright wires in a dark field .
The pivots of the axis rest on in gun-metal beds , one of which has footscrews for the adjustment to while the other has a provision for the adjustment in azimuth .
These pivot beds rest on iron foundation plates , which are placed on the inches in circumference ; it carries a paper on which the seconds of the dock time and the moments of the observed transits are impressed electrically by a pair of recording styles ; it revolves once in two minutes and is wholly traversed by the st.yles three hours ; a second of time corresponds to three-tenths of an inch linear on the drum .
The clocks are furnished with mercurial pendulums , and carry a wheel with 60 teeth , which revolves once in a minute and breaks the electric current at every second , the tooth opposite on the dial being cut off to mark the commencement of each minute . .
The observations were always taken in a portable observatory tent made of canvas provided with shutters and curtains admitting of a meridional aperture from the to the zenith ; as it was only sufficiently large to hold the transit telescope , the chronograph and clock were proyided for in a room in a neighbourir ) building .
The stations were almost invariably situated in the neighbourhood of a Government Telegraphic Office , and were invariably connected with the nearest stations of the Great Triangulation , so that their geodetic latitudes and longitudes may be accepted with confidence .
The instruments received in India in 1872 , and were at first employed at Bangalore and Madras , which were nearly on the same parallel , and were connected by a railroad , so that the arc between the two places was a very suitable one for testing the bilities of the instrumental equipment .
The initial operations were far from satisfactory ; one of the transit instruments , No. 2 , showed discordances in the of the " " constant for collimation which were eventually traced to a defect in construction .
This duly rectified by the mathematical instrument maker at Madras , and for the three next field seasons the instruments were apparently each triangle ; thus in every case a triangular circuit was completed , the closing error of which was a valuable indication of the general accuracy of the operations .
In the field season of 1875-76 six arcs were measured ; in 1876-77 , three and the differences in longitude between Bombay , Aden and Suez , to complete a connection of India with England through the determination of Greenwich to Suez for the Transit of Venus Expedition in 1874 .
The Afghan War and other circumstances led to the suspension of operations until 1880-81 , when they were resumed and eight arcs were measured .
The operations of these three field seasons complete seven circuits , with errors ranging from to , with the average value which were as small as could be reasonably expected .
( See page 260 of vol. 9 .
) In 1881-82 seven arcs were measured , completing three circuits , of which the closing errors were , and , two of them so large as to show something had gone wrong .
The collimation determinations showed that Transit Instrument No. 2 had again become unsatisfactory , as it was in 1874-75 .
It was rectified in the Mathematical Instrument Department at Calcutta , and operations were resumed in the two following field seasons , during which three of the arcs of 1881-82 were re-measured , and six new circuits were completed with small closing lTors ranging from to Thus it seemed that the faulty transit instrument had been put into a satisfactory working condition ; but as some uneasiness was still felt regarding the instruments , they were returned to the makers England for examination and ectification ; ards they were carefuIly tested at the Greenwich Obsel.vatory , and were pronounced to be in perfect condition .
Operations were resumed in 1885-86 ; the instruments worked very but again large circuit errorb obtained , and similar results were met with up to the close of the operations in 1891-92 .
The published annual 1eports of the Survey show what anxious attention was paid to these Inysterious circuit errors , and what a variety of possible causes of error were examined from time to time with a view to ascertaining the actual cause .
it was eventually discovered , as will be shown .
The transit instruments had invariably been set up between two collimating telescopes for the determination of their collimation constants by GAUSS'S well-known method .
They were also invariably reversed on their 's at every station , so that half the observations were taken with the illuminated pivot to the east , and half with it to the west ; at first there were not more than one or two reversals during the whole of the observations at a station , but latterly the number was much increased , and a reversal might be made in the course of a single night 's work Now , if the collimation error is really constant and invariable , reversal of pivot lemoves all as the necessity for exact central adjustment had never impressed itself on the .
observers , and the alignment was always considered sufficiently good if clear vision , of the collimator wires was obtained when they were being set on each other .
Displacement would act in two ways ; it would bring different parts of the object glass of 1 ) transit instrument play before and after reversal of pivots , and it would cut off the same parts of the object glasses of the collimators fhout the operations ; in both cases error would be if the object glasses were not truly homogeneous throughout and with truly spherical surfaces .
All the object glasses were therefore tested .
The transit instruments were set on a suitable distant object , which was observed with the fnll field of the glass , then with the upper , lower , eastern , and western half-field in succession ; and the experiments showed that the object glass of transit instrument No. 1 was perfect , and that of No. 2 nearly .
Then he collimators were set on each other , and similar tions were taken with the full field and the half-fields ; it was at once found that their obJect glasses were very imperfect , showing differences between the east and the west halves , which fully accounted for the discordances which had been met with in the of the collimation constant .
The experiments are } ully detailed at pp. 379 to 387 of vol. 15 .
Thus , this very perplexing mystery was at length ) to its source , and with the happy result that nine out of ten years ' tions gave precise and isfactory results by the employment of the mean collimation constant , instead of the positional constants which had been previously employed .
The work of to be rejected , because the collimation observations , given in volume 10 , that the tube of the telescope of No. 2 had been shaky , and consequently , throughout the field , necessitating the rejection of the whole of operations during that field season .
Thus , finally , fifty-five longitudinal arcs were obtained .
They -one circuits , of which the errors are known , and give so many equations of condition for solution to determine the most probable values of the errors of the arcs .
quations wsual manner bygiving equal weights t the method of squares , L'S Nnmbers and Observed Values .
reversal at Shahpur , a , s compared with Jarura and , may be due to the circumstance that the Himalayas descend some way to their south , though at a very considerable distance to the east ; but speculation on this point is superfluous , as there are so many larger deflections to the south , which cannot possibly be attributed to Himalayan attraction .
Attention must be drawn to group 10 of the Great Arc. It contains one of LAMBTON'S stations , Takalkhera , which EVEREST rejected , because he calculated that the plumb-line is attracted northwards at that point by the tablelands of the Mahadeo Hills , which are 20 miles distant and rise about 1600 feet above it .
But the group contains four subsequently determined stations whose distances range from 20 to 28 miles to the south of Takalkhera , all which show a still larger amount of northerly attraction .
Here , therefore , there must be not only an excess of visible matter above ground in the Mahadeo plateau to the north , but a deficiency of invisible matter underground to the south .
It is only to the operation of underground variations of density we can look for an explanation of the fact that at Bombay there is } ) arently large ortherly deflection , and at Madras there is large southerly deflection , while there is no visible source of meridional attraction at either place .
Whatever the uncertainty about the actual deflection at each place because of the uncertainty at the origin , there is no question that the astronomical amplitude of the arc Bombay\mdash ; Madras is less than the ( corrected ) geodetic amplitude , mainly because of the local deflections at the two places , the difference being at least twenty times greater than can be due to error in the triangulation .
There is no apparent cause to which to attribute these deflections .
Others of a like presented by the latitude observations either of the various methods which have been employed by AIRY , BESSEL , and others .
But in all mathematical treatment of such data it is assumed that the direction of the plumb-line at the astronomical stations is normal , or very closely normal , to the surface , and whereyer there is reason to suspect that this may not be the case the station is arbitrarily rejected .
Still , as a matter of fact , the paucity of data has requently led to the employment of stations which are sensibly influenced by local attractions .
It is possibly for this ason that some mathematicians have been led to conclude from the data which they have employed that the mean figure of the Earth is not a pheroidal figure , with two axes only , as has been generally accepted on theoretical grounds , but an ellipsoidal figure with three axes , two of which are poles of the equator .
This subject has been discussed at length in Archdeacon PRATT'S 'Figure of the Earth , ' 4th edition , p. 181 , with the conclusion that " " local attraction appears to supply a source of correction which makes a resort to so peculiar an hypothesis as an ellipsoidal mean figure unnecessary and untenable It is obvious , therefore , that , before mathematical treatment can be advantageously commenced , steps should be taken to diminish to the utmost possible extent the local deflections by which the ervations are burdened .
This cannot be done by near the coast line .
The Admiralty charts give the details on this subjecb : Bombay there is a belt of water of a depth of about 250 feet extending 150 miles westwards , beyond which are Soundings of 5,000 to 10,000 feet .
At Mangalore a belt of much the same depth extends 50 miles wesbwards , beyond which are sonndings of 6,000 and 7,000 feet .
At Madras there are of 5,000 10,000 feet within 30 miles of the coast line .
At Waltair there is a sounding of 8,000 feet within 50 miles of the coast line .
The charts show a line of demarcation between deep and shallow ou : the west coast , but there is no such line on the east coast .
shallows may very possibly be recent , deposits on ancient contracted beds .
separate individual initial data , because the mean astronomical latitude of a number of points may certainly be assumed to be far more free from deflection than the latitude of any single point .
from ection arises tocedure binds ussumption thatWhen tnumber oextending oistance : the mean figure of the Earth is spheroidal .
But all geodetic calculations of the positions of places on the surface of the Earth have been made hitherto on this assumption ; for though an ellipsoidal figure has been suggested and calculated , the several calculations which have been made have placed the poles of the equator in such different positions that it does not appear that any person has yet attempted to calculate terrestrial elements of latitude , longitude , and azimuth on the basis of an ellipsoidal figure .
We have to begin by assuming something ; we have seen that it is impossible to assume any astronomical arcs of amplitude to be free from error caused by local deflections of the plumb-line , which is our only alternative .
It seems obvious that an assumption which is in itself highly probable , and which permits of combinations of large numbers of astronomical observations and a consequent large elimination of the errors caused by local deflections , is more likely than any other to lead to exact and definite results .
GENERAL J. T. ON INDIA'S CONTRIBUTION TO GEODESY .
809 If we take the arithmetical mean of the four cases , and , and put for the number of degrees in the arc and 1000 for the axial error in feet , and also pnt the middle latitude of India , we have Thus for a meridional arc of and an axial error of 1000 feet , the arc error is only , which is but a small fraction of the error often caused by local deflection .
much larger axial error than 1000 feet must therefore be admitted , or the magnitude of the arc must be so considerably increased that the number of touching points on the Earth 's surface will be too small to produce a sufficiently close representation of the surface .
Let us put 5000 feet as the limit of axial error , and then we obtain the conditions , and or in other words , when the arc error is 2 must exceed in a meridional and in a longitudinal arc .
, , , These conditions have governed the formation of the following table of combinations of latitudes to produce the final meridional arcs of amplitude .
The column gives the differences between the values of the astronomical and the ( corrected ) geodetic arcs of amplitude , as derived from the data in colunm ; these differences may be assumed to be free from errors caused local deflections of the plumb-line , and to be mainly due to the errors still latent in CLARKE'S latest determination of the figure of the Earth .
The arc-lengths in feet are deduced tho original geodetic mplitudes which are converted into feet by the usual formuIae .
Fur the Longiludinal Arcs he treatment is pler .
As we assume the figure of the Earth to be spheroidal , and , therefore , the length of an arc on any given parallel of latitude to be exactly proportional to its amplitude , we have simply to the longest arcs on the most convenient parallels of latitude which we can obtain from combinations of the given arcs .
The whole of the arcs having been made consistent by the mathematical treatment which has been described , it does not matter which of them are employed in forming a combination ; but it will be convenient to take those which are nearest to the selected parallels .
The combinations have the immense advantage of being free from all errors arising from local deflections of the line , excepting those which occur at the extreme eastern and western stations of the arcs of parallel , those occurring at the intermediate stations olning eliminated .
Thus the magnitudes of the deflections which remain and cannot be ] be reduced from large and significant fractions of small arcs to comparatively small and insignificant fractions of large arcs ; at this will happen in out of the four cases to be now brought , the exception being the arc between Madras and Mangalore , which is necessarily a short one , the length being curtailed by the Indian Ocean .
The following table gives the adopted longitudinal arcs and their combinations .
It is arranged to show excesses of the lefi o both the RESULTING UDINA L ARUS .
' The first arc is short to be ) in a geodetic investigation , because of the magnitude of in the astrouolnical anplitud.c , ) parently caused by local deflections of bhe plumb-line towards the strata under the bed of the ocean at each extremity of the ; the rule which has been adopted to govern the relations between the amplitude of an arc and the magnitude of the deflections requires that for such an error as we have here , apparently , the of the arc should be at least halt as much again as it is .
The second arc is good , though probably influenced to some extent by deflection towards the strata under the ocean at Bombay ; but this is of little significance in an arc of so great The third arc is best of all , as it is apparently least affected by local deflections of the plumb-line , and is of considerable length .
The fourth arc is not so good as the smallness of the sum of the local deflections suggests ; it is burdened with able local deflection at Jalpaiguri , its eastern extremity , and possibly also at Quetta , its western extremity , which is situated on an elevated plateau 5500 feet high , and is lded by mountains which rise to a much higher altitude on the east than on the west ; moreover , the geodetic connection between Mooltan and Quetta rests on a long single chain of secondary triangles , and is , therefore , much weaker than that of any of the other longitude stations , all of which are more or less immediately connected with principal triangulation .
Thus the results which may be pnt forward as essentially representing India 's contribution to geodesy consist of eight meridional arcs extending from latitude to latitude , and resting\mdash ; not as usual on latitude observations taken at one more station than the llulnbe of arch , but\mdash ; on latitude observations t , aken at 1 stations , .
of ovel ) for each of the The accompanying of the Trigonometrical } of India shows the whole of the Principal iangulation , the ations at which Astronomical Latitudes have been obsel.ved , and the -Telegraphic Arcs ; also the Pendulum Stations .
It also shows the Azimuth Stations , the of th Spirit LeveJling Operations , and the Secondary TrianguJation to the Mountains and various points extel.nal to the Principal ; but it omits for the sake of clearness all the amount of internal Secondary Triangulation which has been executed .

