The Distribution of Blue and Violet Light in the Corona .
395 In order to elucidate this divergence in the effect produced under as nearly as practicable similar circumstances upon mica mill-wheels on the one hand , and aluminium wheels on the other , further research seems necessary , but it would appear very probable that the heat insulating properties of mica , which would enable the two sides of a vane of this material to remain at widely different temperatures , and the high conductivity of aluminium for heat , which would not allow of such temperature differences , have an important bearing on this question .
] The Distribution of Blue and Violet Light the Corona on August 30 , 1905 , as derived from Photographs taken at Kalaa-es-Senam , Tunisia .
By Dr. L. Becker , Professor of Astronomy , University of Glasgow .
( Communicated by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee .
Received November 27 , 1906 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) Nine photographs of the corona are available for discussion .
They were all taken with the same instrument on the same plate ( the two halves of a whole plate placed end to end ) and developed in the same tray .
A strong developer was used so as to produce as much contrast as possible .
The plate had been exposed and moved onwards 1 or 2 inches after each exposure by an automatic device governed by a pendulum clock which closed and opened two electric circuits at specified intervals .
The operator merely started the pendulum of the clock at the beginning of totality and the photographs were taken without further interference on his part .
There are five exposures of 085 second , and one each of 9 , 3 , 89 , 21 , and 46 seconds duration .
Owing to damage done in transit to the mechanism which propels the plate , the 3 seconds ' exposure is partly superposed on the images belonging to those of 9 seconds and 89 seconds , with the result that only the sum of the exposures belonging to these two photographs is accurately known .
This failure has somewhat complicated the reduction of the .
plates .
During the first four exposures of 0'85 second the aperture of the lens was reduced respectively to 0'05 , 0'09 , 0'2 , 0'4 , of its area by screens , each of which had 13 equal openings distributed over the area of the lens .
The effect due to diffraction produced by the screens is investigated in the 396 The Distribution of Blue and Violet Light in the Corona .
paper .
The observations made on the photographs and utilised in this paper , consist in the selection of points on the several corona-images at which the photographic film shows the same degree of blackness , and in the measurement of their distance from the lunar disc .
For instance , the first five photographs show the same degree of blackness at distances from the sun 's limb of 0-063 , 0096 , 0T39 , 0T87 , 0263 , respectively ( unity =10-3 solar diameter ) .
The measurements were actually made on positives which showed the corona as a transparent ring round the lunar disc , arid not one but 24 points of an equal-blackness curve were measured .
For the first five photographs the intensities of the corona at points where there is equal blackness are inversely as the areas of the exposed portions of the lens , while for the photographs taken at full aperture the intensity is a function of the duration of exposure , which function was determined from experiments .
A complication arises from the fact that the intensity of the* light diffusely reflected by the sky and various parts of the instrument is of the order of the intensity of the outlying coronal radiations .
The observations thus give for a series of pairs of points whose distances from the moon 's or sun 's limb are known , the ratio of the intensities of light , and the problem is to represent the intensity as a function of the distance of the point from the sun 's limb .
The calculation was carried out only for the average distance of an equal-blackness ( i.e. , intensity ) curve , and the result is that the intensity of the corona decreases inversely as the fourth power of the average distance of the curve from a circle which is concentric with the sun 's disc and whose diameter is about three-quarters of the solar diameter .
The formula does not hold good in each of the 24 radial directions .
I have further attempted to refer the intensity to that of a certain region on the moon , utilising photographs of the moon which were taken at the Observatory after my return from the eclipse expedition .
The object of the final sections of the paper is to show that such photographs as used here , if taken on ordinary plates and plates sensitised for red and yellow rays , would be well suited for settling the debated question whether or not the luminosity of the corona is actually caused by particles heated to luminescence by solar radiation .

