274 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ Jan. 26 Up to the present time , no compounds of chromium with ammonia have .
been described , which are analogous in composition to those forming the subject of this paper .
The metal cobalt , however , forms , with ammonia the base of Fremy 's well-known series of luteocobaltie salts , to which these compounds bear a marked resemblance .
Comparing the compounds at present analysed with the corresponding luteocobaltic salts:\#151 ; 8 New Series .
{ ( C0N2H4)12Cr2}(Cr207)33H20 ... .
{ ( C0N2H4)12Cr2}(PtCl6)32H20 ... .
{ ( C0N2H4)12Cr2}Cl66H20 { ( CON2H4)12Cr2}(SO4)310HoO ... .
{ ( C0N2H4)12Cr2}(N03)6 Several other compounds are in course of preparation or analysis , and will form the subject of a further communication .
I am greatly indebted to my friend and former pupil , Mr. C. T. Heycock , B.A. , for much valuable aid in the analysis of these complicated compounds .
I desire also to express my thanks to Professor Liveing for much valuable advice and assistance .
Luteocobaltic Salts .
{ ( NH3)i2Co2}(Cr207)35H20 { ( UH3)12Co3}(PtCl6)36H00 { ( NH3)12Co2}C16 { ( nH3)12Co2}(S04)35H00 { ( NH3)12Co2}(N03)6 II .
" On the Spectrum of Water .
No. II .
" By G. D. Liveing , , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received January 14 , 1882 .
In our former communication on the subject of the water spectrum ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 30 , p. 580 ) we stated that the spectrum we then figured did not by any means exhaust the spectra of flames we had observed , but it was as much as we had at that time been able to trace to water as its cause .
We had , in fact , noticed in the spectrum of coal-gas and hydrogen-flames a still more refrangible but less intense series of lines ; and we have since observed that this second series is produced under the same circumstances as the first , and we therefore ascribe it to the same cause , namely , the incandescent vapour of water .
It is easily produced not only by the flames just mentioned , but by the arc of a De Meritens machine when a current of steam is passed into it , and by the spark of an induction coil without jar in moist air or other moist gas .
When a large coil and jar are used it almost or wholly disappears .
The accompanying figure is drawn from a photograph of the spectrum of an oxyhydrogen flame ; and the wave-lengths marked on 1882 .
] On the Spectrum of .
276 Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of [ Jan. 26 , it were derived by interpolation from the wave-lengths of the ma^ne smm and iron lines .
The arc of a De Meritens machine taken in a crucible of magnesia gave us , when a current of steam was passed into the crucible , both the water spectrum and the metallic lines on the same plate .
The solar lines are marked in the figure in positions held by the corresponding iron lines .
These photographs were taken with prisms of Iceland Spar .
Hone of our photographs show any more refrangible rays produced by water within the limit of transparency of Iceland spar , i\e .
, below a wave-length of about 2200 .
III .
" An Attempt at af Complete Osteology of fhjpsilophodon Foxii , a British \yealden Dinosaur .
" By J. W. Hulke , F.R.S. Received { January 16 , 1882 .
j ( Abstract .
) The author , after giving a list of papers on remains of this Dinosaur , by Professor Owen , Professor Huxley , and himself , and noticing the great want of a complete osteology which might serve as a type , describes in detail the skull , including the dentition , the vertebral column , shoulder-girdle , \#163 ; |nd hip-girdle with the limbs , and compares their structure with that , of other fossil and extant Sauropsida .
He maintains the generic distinctness of from Iguanodon as typified by I. Afantelli , considering that the very different structure of their hind feet is decisive* of this .
The paper embodies the results of dissections of parts of several skeletons , and it is illustrated by figures of all the bones described^ IV .
" The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) Part Ilj\#151 ; Electrical Conductivity .
The temporary alteration of electrical conductivity which can be produced by longitudinal traction was measured for all the metal wires used in Part I , both in the hard-drawn and annealed condition , and , in addition , for carbon and nickel , by the following method : \#151 ; The wires were suspended in pairs of equal lengths in an air-chamber 4 feet in length and 4 finches inner diameter .
This vessel , which consisted of two concentric cylinders containing a layer of water

