136 Mr. W. Crookes on [ June 15 , This gives a maximum error in the value of A of 6-20 per cent. Hence we adopt the equation ( 5 ) as the best representation of the observations , and as the best application of the Law of Fatigue .
For ( 5 = 1*0 , we find A = 47-5 53-3 52-4 51-0 50- 0 470 52*7 51- 8 Mean ... .
50*7 We may now proceed to calculate the values of from equation ( 5 ) , using the constants A = 50-7 P = 1*0 ; and thus we obtain Dr. Macalister .
No. t. n ( obs .
) .
n ( calc .
) .
Diff. 1 .
P50 sec. 190 20-2 - 1-2 2 .
0-66 " 246 234 4- 12 3 .
100 " 26-2 254 + 0-8 4 .
1-50 " 23-6 23-4 + 0-2 5 .
2-00 " 200 20-2 v - 0-2 6 .
3-00 " 14-2 15-2 - 10 7 .
4-00 " 12-4 11-9 + 0-5 8 .
6-00 " 8-6 8-3 + 0-2 This Table shows a very satisfactory agreement of the observations with the Law of Fatigue expressed by equation ( 5 ) ; and this agreement is also shown in the Diagram on p. 132 , where the curve ( 5 ) is drawn to scale , and where the individual observations are marked by the small circles .
X. " On Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
Influence of the Residual Gas/ " \#151 ; ( Preliminary Notice .
) By William Cbookes , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received June 13 , 1876 .
I have recently been engaged in experiments which are likely to throw much light on some obscure points in the theory of the repulsion resulting from radiation .
In these I have been materially assisted by Professor Stokes , both in original suggestions and in the mathematical 1876 .
] Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
137 formula ) necessary for the reduction of the results .
Being prevented by other work from completing the experiments sufficiently to bring them before the Boyal Society prior to the close of the session , I have thought that it might be of interest were I to publish a short abstract of the principal results I have obtained , reserving the details until they are ready to be brought forward in a more complete form .
In the early days of this research , when it was found that no movement took place until the vacuum was so good as to be almost beyond the powers of an ordinary air-pump to produce , and that as the vacuum got more and more nearly absolute , so the force increased in power , it was justifiable to assume that the action would still take place when the minute trace of residual gas which theoretical reasoning proved to be present was removed .
The first and most obvious explanation therefore was that the repulsive force was directly due to radiation .
Further consideration , however , showed that the very best vacuum which I had succeeded in producing might contain enough matter to offer considerable resistance to motion .
I have already pointed out that in some experiments , where the rarefaction was pushed to a very high point , the torsion-beam appeared to be swinging in a viscous fluid ( 194 ) ; and this at once led me to think that the repulsion caused by radiation was indirectly due to a difference of thermometric heat between the black and white surfaces of the moving body ( 195 ) , and that it might be due to a secondary action on the residual gas .
On April 5 , 1876 , I exhibited at the Soiree of the Boyal Society an instrument which proved the presence of residual gas in a radiometer which had been exhausted to a very high point of sensitiveness .
A small piece of pith was suspended to one end of a cocoon fibre , the other end being attached to a fragment of steel .
An external magnet held the steel to the inner side of the glass globe , the pith then hanging down like a pendulum , about a millimetre from the rotating vanes of the radiometer .
By placing a candle at different distances off , any desired velocity , up to several hundreds per minute , could be imparted to the fly of the radiometer .
Scarcely any movement of the pendulum was produced when the rotation was very rapid ; but on removing the candle , and letting the rotation die out , at one particular velocity the pendulum set up a considerable movement .
Professor Stokes suggested ( and , in fact , tried the experiment at the time ) that the distance of the candle should be so adjusted that the permanent rate of rotation should be the critical one for synchronism corresponding to the rate at which one arm of the fly passed for each complete oscillation .
In this way the pendulum was kept for some time swinging with regularity through a large arc .
This instrument proved that , at a rarefaction so high that the residual gas was a non-conductor of an induction-current , there was enough matter present to produce motion , and therefore to offer resistance to motion .
That this residual gas was something more than an accidental accomvol .
xxv .
L Mr. W. Crookes on [ June 15 , paniment of the phenomena was rendered probable by the observations of Dr. Schuster , as well as by my own experiments on the movement of the floating glass case of a radiometer when the arms are fixed by a magnet * .
My first endeavour was to get some experimental means of discriminating between the viscosity of the minute quantity of residual gas and the other retarding forces , such as the friction of the needle-point on the glass cup when working with a radiometer , or the torsion of the glass fibre when a torsion-apparatus was used .
A glass bulb is blown on the end of a glass tube , to the upper part of which a glass stopper is accurately fitted by grinding .
To the lower part of the stopper a fine glass fibre is cemented , and to the end of this is attached a thin oblong plate of pith , which hangs suspended in the centre of the globe ; a mirror is attached to the pith bar , which enables its movement to be observed on a graduated scale .
The stopper is well lubricated with the burnt india-rubber which I have already found so useful in similar cases ( 207 ) .
The instrument is held upright by clamps , and is connected to the pump by a long spiral tube .
The stopper is fixed rigidly in respect to space , and an arrangement is made by which the bulb can be rotated through a small angle .
The pith plate , with mirror , being suspended from the stopper , the rotation of the bulb can only cause a motion of the pith through the intervention of the enclosed air .
Were there no viscosity of the air , the pith would not move ; but if there be viscosity , the pith will turn in the same direction as the bulb , though not to the same extent , and , after stopping the vessel , will oscillate backwards and forwards in decreasing arcs , presently setting in its old position relatively to space .
It was suggested by Prof. Stokes that it would be desirable to register not merely the amplitude of the first swing , but the readings of the first five swings or so .
This would afford a good value of the logarithmic decrement ( the decrement per swing of the logarithm of the amplitude of the arcs ) , which is the constant most desirable to know .
The logarithmic decrement will involve the viscosity of the glass fibre ; but glass is so nearly perfectly elastic , and the fibre so very thin , that this will be practically insensible .
According to Professor Clerk Maxwell , the viscosity of a gas should be independent of its density ; and the experiments with this apparatus have shown that this is practically correct , as the logarithmic decrement of the arc of the oscillation ( a constant which may be taken as defining the viscosity of the gas ) only slightly diminishes up to as high an exhaustion as I can conveniently attain\#151 ; higher , indeed , than is necessary to produce repulsion by radiation .
I next endeavoured to measure , simultaneously with the logarithmic decrement of the arc of oscillation , the repulsive force produced by a candle at high degrees of exhaustion .
The motion produced by the rotation of the bulb alone has the advantage of exhibiting palpably to the * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xxiv .
p. 409 .
1876 .
] Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
139 eye that there is a viscosity between the suspended body and the vessel ; but once having ascertained that , and admitting that the logarithmic decrement of the arc of oscillation ( when no candle is shining on the plate ) is a measure of the viscosity , there is no further necessity to complicate the apparatus by having the ground and lubricated stopper .
A movement of the whole vessel bodily through a small arc is equally effective for getting this logarithmic decrement ; and the absence of the stopper enables me to have the whole apparatus sealed up in glass , and I can therefore experiment at higher rarefactions than would be possible when a lubricated stopper is present .
The apparatus , which is too complicated to describe without a drawing , has attached to it:\#151 ; a , a Sprengel pump an arrangement for producing a chemical vacuum ; c , a lamp with scale , on which to observe the luminous index reflected from the mirror ; d , a standard caudle at a fixed distance ; and e , a small vacuum-tube , with the internal ends of the platinum wires close together .
I can therefore take observations of:\#151 ; 1 .
The logarithmic decrement of the arc of oscillation when under no infl uence of radiation ; 2 .
The successive swings and final deflection when a candle shines on one end of the blackened bar ; 3 .
The appearance of the induction-spark between the platinum wires .
1 measures the viscosity ; 2 enables me to calculate the force of radiation of the candle ; and 3 enables me to form an idea of the progress of the vacuum according as the interior of the tube becomes uniformly luminous , striated , luminous at the poles only , or black and nonconducting .
The apparatus is also arranged so that I can try similar experiments with any vapour or gas .
The following are some of the most important results which this apparatus has as yet yielded .
Up to an exhaustion at which the gauge and barometer are sensibly level , there is not much variation in the viscosity of the internal gas ( dry atmospheric air ) .
Upon now continuing to exhaust , the force of radiation commences to be apparent , the viscosity remaining about the same .
The viscosity next commences to diminish , the force of radiation increasing .
After long-continued exhaustion the force of radiation approaches a maximum ; but the viscosity measured by the logarithmic decrement begins to fall off : , the decrease being rather sudden after it has once commenced .
Lastly , some time after the logarithmic decrement has commenced to fall off , and when it is about one fourth of what it was at the commencement , the force of radiation diminishes .
At the highest exhaustion I have yet been able to work at , the logarithmic decrement is about one twentieth of its original amount , and the force of repulsion has sunk to a little less than one half of the maximum .
The attenuation has now Mr. C. Creighton on Coagulation-appearances [ Jane 15 , become so excessive that we are no longer at liberty to treat the number of gaseous molecules present in the apparatus as practically infinite and , according to Professor Clerk Maxwell 's theory , the mean length of path of the molecules between their collisions is no longer very small compared with the dimensions of the apparatus .
The degree of exhaustion at which an induction-current will not pass is far below the extreme exhaustions at which the logarithmic decrement falls rapidly .
The force of radiation does not act suddenly , but takes an appreciable time to attain its maximum\#151 ; thus proving , as Prof. Stokes has pointed out , that the force is not due to radiation directly but indirectly .
In a radiometer exhausted to a very high degree of sensitiveness , the viscosity of the residual gas is almost as great as if it were at the atmospheric pressure .
With other gases than air the phenomena are different in degree , although similar in kind\#151 ; aqueous vapour , for instance , retarding the force of repulsion to a great extent , and carbonic acid acting in a similar though less degree .
The evidence afforded by the experiments of which this is a brief abstract is to my mind so strong as almost to amount to conviction that the repulsion resulting from radiation is due to an action of thermometric heat between the surface of the moving body and the case of the instrument , through the intervention of the residual gas .
This explanation of its action is in accordance with recent speculations as to the ultimate constitution of matter and the dynamical theory of gases .
XI .
" Note on certain unusual Coagulation-appearances found in Mucus and other Albuminoid Fluids .
" By Charles Creighton , M.B. , M.A. Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received June 9 , 1876 .
The following observations were made in the course of re-examining a number of microscopic preparations that had been originally made for other purposes .
They relate to certain unusual coagulation-forms that mucous or colloid or other albuminoid fluids assume when they are treated in a particular way .
In an early investigation of Virchow 's ( ' Ueber die Form des geronnenen Faserstoffs ' ) the production of the fibrinous threads of a coagulum was attributed to the contraction of the clot towards particular points , and was compared to the process of crystallization .
" We may consider , " says Virchow , " this process to be a kind of organic crystallization , wherein each separate fibril must be viewed as a complex of smaller crystalline particles .
As in crystallization , so likewise in this case the separate molecules arrange themselves in particular directions to form delicate

