Fig. 6 .
Philos : Trans No:391 Plate III .
Fig:5 .
F BH E D I C K L V. An Account of a new Machine , called the Marine Surveyor , contrived for the Mensuration of the Way of a Ship in the Sea , more correctly than by the Log , or any other Method hitherto used for that Purpose ; together with several Testimonials , setting forth the Usefulness of this Invention .
By Mr. Henry de Saumarez of the Island of Guernsey .
HAving for several Years applied my Studies to the Improvement of Navigation , I have fallen on various Projects , as well for the better clearing a Ship off a Lee-shore , as for her Steering , Tacking , or Waring &amp;c. which I may probably soon publish to the World : But what has most of all employed my Thoughts has been to contrive something to ascertain the Way of a Ship in the Sea , more correctly than by the Log , ( at present in Use in our Navigation ; ) the Errors of which are such , that I am fully persuaded the unhappy Fate of the brave Sir Cloudsley Shovel , was more owing thereto , than to any Errors in Judgment .
The melancholy Reflections I made on that national Loss , was what spurred me on to find out something that would not only have a regular Motion under Water , but might communicate the same to a Dial , or Piece of Clock-Work , within the After Variety of Experiments , I was at last so happy as to answer my Purpose in some Measure ; and as in Guernsey we are at a Loss for curious Workmen , in the Year 1715 .
I came to London , and furnished my self with a Boat , and all the Materials necessary for my Design .
Daily was I on the River Thames making Experiments , and was frequently honoured with the Company of several of the Literati , who were greatly pleased with my Invention ; but , not being fully satisfied of the Certainty thereof , they advised me to try it on a Standing Water .
According to their Desire I did so , for I obtained a Liberty several Times of having a Boat on the Canal in St. James 's Park , where I demonstrated , to such curious Persons as favoured me with their Company , the Usefulness of several Instruments ; for we there fixed two Poles for Marks , and notwithstanding I many Times altered the Motion of myBoat , by sometimes rowing fast , and at other Times slow , yet had my Machine under Water the same Number of Revolutions between the Marks .
It may , perhaps , be asked , how I came to be assured that the Revolutions of the Engine under Water are regular , let the Motion be swift or slow , and that they answer the same Distance ?
I will not yet say , that this admits of so clear a mathematical Proof , as any Proposition in Euclid ; however , I have mechanically found it so in a great Variety of Experiments ; and that every Turn or Revolution of the Engine under Water just measures 10 Feet , which I call the decimal hydraulical Circumference thereof .
The Primum Mobile , or Soul of this Machine , is in the Form of the Letter Y , and is made in Iron , or any other Metal : At each End of the Lines , which constitute the Angle , or upper Part of that Letter , are two Pallets not much unlike the Figure of the Log ; one of which falls in the same Proportion as the other rises .
The falling or pendent Pallet meeting a Resistance from the Water , as the Ship moves , has , by that Means , a circular Motion under Water , which is faster or slower , according as the Vessel moves .
This Motion is communicated to a Dial within the Ship ( which is fixed either in the Master 's Cabin , or any other proper Place ) by means of a Rope ( of any convenient Length ) fastened to the Tail of the Y , and carried to the Dial .
The Motion being thus communicated to this Dial , which has a Bell in it , it strikes exactly the geometrical Paces , Miles , or Leagues , which the Ship has run .
Thus is the Ship 's Distance attained ; and with equal Ease may the Forces of Tides and Currents be discovered by this Instrument .
The Figures adjoin 'd more fully explain the first Movement of my Machine .
In Figure 5 .
AKCL and BHDI are the Pallets , which are worked from the Legs DE and CE into the Form they appear , to a Breadth of about 4 Inches and a half .
The Length of the Pallets ( B D and AC ) are 8 Inches .
The Branches or Legs , DE and C E , are each 15 Inches and a half long , and 2 in Circumference , the Diameter of which is about two Thirds of an Inch ; and the Angle CE D , which is contained between them , is 45 Degrees .
The Shank OF is of the same Thickness or Circumference with CE and D E , and is 27 Inches long .
At the Point F there is a Ring , where one End of the Rope FG is hooked to the Machine , the other End G being fixed to the Dial within the Ship or Vessel .
This Rope may be about 5 Fathoms , more or less , according as the Dial is fixed high or low , in respect to the Surface of the Water .
In the Figure aforementioned , this Machine has but two Branches ; however , it may be formed of three , if not four , and adjusted to the same Standard or Measure : But as three or four Branches would be more subject to entangle themselves in Sea-Weeds , and thereby prevent the regular Motion of the Instrument , if not in some Measure impede the Ship 's Way , I cannot but recommend their being made only of two Branches , in the Manner I have laid down ; for , in my own Experiment at Sea , I have observed those made in this Form have been so far from being choked by Weeds , that if they encountered any at any Time , they have always cleared themselves of them , without the Trouble of hauling the Engine into the Ship to do it .
To regulate this Instrument , it may be done several Ways ; as first , by opening or closing the Angle CE D ; secondly , by lengthening or shortening the Branches , or turning or bending more or less the Pallets AKCL and BHD I ; and so in this Manner the Machine is brought to what Standard or Measure you please , to make the hydraulical Revolution to answer either to a geometrical Pace of 5 Feet , or to 10 , 12 , 14 Feet , &amp;c. The Machines of this Kind , which I have tried at Sea in all Sorts of Weather , did weigh some 4 , others 5 , and others 6 Pounds ; the Weight of them not at all affecting the peculiar Property of the Instrument , or hindering the Regulation thereof according to the Methods I have laid down .
These Machines may be made of Tin as well as Iron , and so light as not to weigh above two or three Pounds , which may serve for any Boat , Wherry , Barge , &amp;c. without any Hindrance to their Rowing or Sailing .
The Manner of fixing them to a Ship , or Boat , is represented in Fig. 6 .
I I come now to the Explanation of three several Dials , any one of which may be used with this Machine .
The first Dial had three Indexes , one of which marked 10 Revolutions of the Engine , each Revolution 10 Feet ; so that of consequence the whole Round of the Circle was 100 Feet .
As five of these Revolutions make 50 Feet , which I reckon to be ( or at least should be ) the Distance marked between each Knot on the Log-Line now in Use at Sea ; by holding the Half-minute Glass in one 's Hand ( which is always used with the Log-Line ) one may , by Inspection , see how many Times 50 Feet she runs in half a Minute , and of course how many Miles in an Hour , without the Trouble of employing four or five Hands , as there generally is , in heaving the Log. My second Index on this Dial marked 100 Revolutions , which makes 1000 Feet , as the third Index did 1000 Revolutions , which is equal to 10,000 Feet ; and then a little Bell struck , signifying when the Ship had sailed that Distance , which may be also fitted to strike to any other Measure .
My second Dial had the Circle on its Plate divided into twelve Parts , so that as the Index past each Division , the Ship had run one Mile , and consequently twelve Miles , when it had measured the Circumference .
On one Side of this Dial , I had fixed another Plate , which was graduated in such Manner , that by the Half-minute Glass I could also , by Inspection , tell what the Vessel run in that Space of Time , &amp;c. On my third Dial I had three Circles ; the first was so divided , as to show when the Ship had run 60 Leagues ; the second was so contrived , as to show when the Ship had run the same Distance in Miles ; and on the third was marked 120 Knots ; so that , computing putting each Knot at 50 Feet , the Circumference was 6000 Feet , which I take to be the Standard of an English Maritime Mile , or the 1/ 60 Part of a Degree upon the Equator ; in running which Length , my Instrument has just 600 Revolutions ; to which Distance a little Bell strikes to give Notice , to the Man at the Helm , of the Distance sailed in that Time .
Besides the several Circles on this Dial ( graduated as I have mentioned ) I had also two Plates on each Side , having two Circles ; one divided into 100 Leagues , and the other into 300 Miles ; so that , without hearing the Bell strike to every Mile or League , one might at any Time see by them , what Number of Miles or Leagues the Ship had run , from the Time she had left her Port .
As to the Materials within the Dial , there is little more than common Clock-work .
As by this Machine I undertake to correct the Errors of the Log , I flatter my self that a Comparison between that Instrument , and my Invention , will not be unacceptable to the Curious ; I therefore present you with A Comparative Discourse between the Log and my Instrument , which I chuse to call the Marine Surveyor .
1st .
` ` T HE first Error I chuse to touch on , in relation to the Log , is in the half and quarter Minute Glasses ; I think I may well affirm , that they are seldom or never true , in regard it rarely happens that we can find two to finish their Course in the same Space of Time ; yet , if they did run their Sand out equally , it is no Demonstration of their Truth , since two , that are false , may do the same , as well as two that are true .
But , admitting they were never so truly made , they are notwithstanding subject to Error , since it is but too well known , that dry and wet Weather have a great Influence on them .
Should the Half-minute Glass lack but two Seconds , or be two Seconds too long , it makes an Error of some Miles in 24 Hours .
If the Log be hove by Quarter-minute Glasses , in like manner defective , ( which is the general Practice , when the Ship has great Way ) in doubling the Knots , the Error is also doubled .
Besides , when the Ship runs after the Rate of 8 or 9 Miles an Hour , ( and the Line is left to run off of the Reel ) it rarely happens but some Fathoms are out , before the Line can be stopped ; though this may be small in the Course of 24 Hours , and therefore disregarded ; yet in a long Voyage it will make a great Addition to the many Errors in the Distance ( which we gain by the Log ) which , added to those of our Judgment , occasions so many that keep Journals at Sea , to be a Shore , when they have reckoned themselves 50 , 60 , or more Leagues from the Land ; and others to be as many Leagues from their Port , at the Time when they have expected to make it .
In the Marine-Surveyor it is not so ; for this Instrument requires no Glasses of any Kind : Let the Ship run fast or slow , it is the same , for it works in Proportion , and the Bell strikes to every Mile accordingly .
To evidence the Truth of this , I take Leave to mention an Instance , viz. When I was making my Experiments on the Canal , the Reverend Dr. Desaguliers , one of the Members of this honourable Society , and several other Mathematicians , at Times , were with me , and we measured out a certain Distance there ; upon which I fitted my Machine to strike to that Distance , and accordingly it did so .
We then altered the Motion of the Boat , and rowed much faster to the Mark than we had done before ; however , the Bell struck , when we came up to it , to the greatest Exactness : And such is the Property of this Instrument , that it may be fitted to strike to Miles , Leagues , &amp;c. as shall be thought proper .
This Machine is made of Materials so durable , that one of them shall last 50 or 60 Years ; and such is the Price , that they will prove as cheap or cheaper to the Government , than the Log , which is attended with an Expense of so many Lines , Glasses , &amp;c. As for the making a Trial of this Instrument , it may be as fully done in the Channel , as in an East-India Voyage ; for if it answers to 20 , 30 , or 40 Leagues , the Reason holds good for as many Thousand .
2d .
` ` The chief Property of the Log is to have it swim upright , or perpendicular to the Plane of the Horizon .
This is too often wanting in Logs , because but few Seamen examine whether it is so or no , and generally take it upon Trust , being satisfied , if it weigh a little more at the Stern than the Head .
What erroneous Reckonings flow from hence is but too evident ; for if the Log does not swim upright , it will not hold Water , neither remain steady in the Place where it is heaved , since the least Check of the Hand , in veering the Line , will make it come up several Feet .
This repeated , the Errors become Fathoms , and perhaps Knots , which , how insignificant soever they may seem , are Miles and Parts of Miles , and amount to much in a long Voyage .
In-answer to this , the Marine-Surveyor is of such a Property , that there is no Necessity to take Care about its swimming ; and it is a constant Truth , peculiar to this Instrument , that be the Ship 's Motion on the Water what it will , whether she runs one Mile faster or slower than another , yet all she runs , is exactly marked on the said Instrument , as appears plainly from some Tables of Experiments made by me in the River Thames , for obtaining the gradual Increase and Decrease of both Ebb and Flood .
3 .
` ` The stretching and shrinking of the Log-Line , is another great Error in the Use of the Log ; for when a new Line is first used , let it be ever so well stretched upon Deck , and measured as true as possible , it shrinks after wetting considerably ; and therefore if we rely on the Line run out for the Ship 's Distance , we ought to measure and alter the Knots on it every Hour before we use it ; but I am well assured that this is seldom done oftner than once a Week , and sometimes not above once or twice in a Voyage .
What great Dependence then is there on a Reckoning kept by the Log ?
Since in this Case the Line will shrink so , as to add Miles to the other Mistakes of every 24 Hours .
Again , when the Line is measured to its greatest Degree of Shrinking , it is generally left there ; and when , by much Use , it comes to stretch again , it is seldom or never mended , although it will stretch beyond what it first shrunk .
In short , such are the Errors incident to the Log , that I do n't wonder at our Neighbours the Dutch for preferring their Chips or an irregular Pulse to it ; which conjectural Reckoning of theirs is obtained after the following Manner .
They fix two Marks on the Side of the Ship at a certain Distance , when an exN nn ` ` perienced perienced Person , standing at the foremost Mark , throws a Chip over-board , and counts the several Beats of his Pulse , during the Chip 's Passage from one Mark to the other ; and from thence it is they compute the Number of Miles that the Ship runs in an Hour .
As for the Marine-Surveyor , it is not hove with a Line , but is towed a Stern by a Rope ; and let that Rope stretch or shrink ( be long or short ) it is all one , for the Instrument will have the same true Revolutions .
Should it be objected , that it holds Water , I affirm , from my own Experiments of it , that the Log hauled in from 5 or 6 Knots , is much heavier upon the Hand ; and that the faster the Ship runs , the less Water this Instrument of mine holds , because it gives Way to the Water and turns quicker ; nay , I can venture to say , that it is so far from being any considerable Impediment to the Ship 's Way that she does not lose one Mile in an hundred by it .
But should this Instrument be introduced into the Navy , in case of chasing an Enemy , or the like , it may be taken in at any Time , and let down again at Pleasure .
4 .
` I appeal to all Seamen , if in a moderate Gale , when the Ship runs 5 or 6 Knots , two different Persons ( every way qualified ) were to heave the Log immediately after one another , whether they would exactly agree .
Surely no. Since it is but Chance if they do so , and is what may not happen in an hundred Trials .
I therefore affirm the Log to be very erroneous on this Account and that the Error frequently increases with the Wind ; for in a stiff Gale , when a Ship has run about 8 or 9 Knots before the Wind , it has been known that two expert Seamen have hove the Log in this Man3 ` ` ner , ner , and on their comparing Notes , they have found a Knot Difference ; sometimes it has been more , and at others less , which must certainly make a strange Confusion in the Reckoning .
Under this Head I take leave to observe , that when the Log is hove , it is sometimes in so strong a Gale , that the Ship runs ~9 Knots ; but before it is hove again , there may be such a Decrease of the Wind , that for half of the Hour she may not run above 5 Knots .
Her true Distance sailed then , is the Mean between the Extremes of 9 and 5 ; but this has been so far from being considered by some Chalkers of the Log-board , that it is but too well known , the Extremes have been put for the Mean , and the contrary .
Were there Truth in the Log , two Ships in Company would nearly have the same Account ; but it is otherwise ; for we too often find many Leagues Difference in Reckonings , even on board the same Ship .
In a word , such Errors have been found in the Log by some of my Acquaintance , that when ` they have sailed between a Meridian and a Parallel , the whole Difference on the Log-board has not proved Difference of Latitude enough to agree with their Observation , although each Day they had a good observed Latitude , and no Currents .
In the Marine-Surveyor we are so assured of the Ship 's Distance , that all Ships shall agree which are in Company , as to their Reckonings , save that some Allowance be made for Difference of Judgment in the several Persons who keep Journals .
There are several other Cases equally , if not more momentous than what I offer here , wherein the Marine Surveyor will be found to have the Preference of the Log ; but I forbear to mention them , chusing rather to entertain you with undeniable Proofs of the Usefulness of my Invention , which I persuade my self will be found to be of singular Advantage to the Trade and Navigation of my Country .
The following are the Substance of two Affidavits , taken under the Seal of the Royal Court at-Guernsey , by some expect Seamen , who have had Trial of my Instrument , viz. KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS , that on the 30th of November 1720 , there personally appeared before William Le Merchant Esq , ( Judge Delegate in the Island of Guernsey , &amp;c. ) Messieurs Jean Andros , and Eleazar Le Merchant ( Jurats of the Royal Court of the said Island ) William Ahier , aged about 40 Years , who commanded several Privateers in the late War , ( and particularly that called La Chasse , of about 150 Tuns , 16 Guns , and 140 Men ) and is now Master of the Ship called the Eagle , of which Vessel he is the only Proprietor , who voluntarily makes Oath , that on Sunday the 9th of October 1720 , he parted from Southampton with several Gentlemen Passengers on board for Guernsey ; that he had fixed at the Stern of his Ship a new Invention called the Marine-Surveyor , projected , to the best of his Knowlege , by Mr. Henry de Saumarez , a Gentleman of the Island of Guernsey , for correcting the Log , &amp;c. That after they had left the Needles , they had a stiff Gale of Wind , attended with a rolling Sea , notwithstanding which , the Machine worked as regularly as if it had been smooth Water , the little Bell of it striking to every Mile the Ship run with great Exactness .
And this Deponent further declares , that having thoroughly viewed and examined the Experiment of this new Invention , he finds it to be not only practicable , but preferable to the common Methods used at Sea for attaining the Ship 's Distance sailed ; that therefore , for the public Good , he doth attest the Truth of the abovementioned Particulars .
In witness whereof , the Seal of the Royal Court of Guernsey is hereunto affixed by us the under-written , William Le Merchant , Judge Delegate .
Jean Andros , Jurats .
Eleazar Le Merchant , The other Affidavits runs as follow , viz. KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS , That on the 30th of November 1720 , there personally appeared before William Le Merchant Esq ; Judge Delegate in the Island of Guernsey , &amp;c. Messieurs Jean Andros and Eleazar Le Merchant , Jurats of the Royal Court of the said Island .
The following Persons , viz. Abraham Le Mesurier , of about 48 Years of Age , formerly Captain of several Ships , Peter Bonamy , of about 58 Years of Age , formerly Captain of several Ships , and who has used the Sea above 40 Years , John Hardy , of about 38 Years of Age , formerly Captain of several Ships , William Ahier , about 40 Years of Age , and formerly Captain of several Ships ; and James Hubert , of about 27 Years of Age , who has also been Master of several Vessels , who voluntarily make Oath , that on the 19th of October 1720 , they set Sail in the Morning out of Guernsey Pier , with a fresh Gale of Wind , in a Sloop called the Dolphin , in Company with several Gentlemen of the said Island , in order to make an Experiment at Sea of a Machine called the Marine-Surveyor , projected , to the best of their Knowledge , by Mr. Henry de Saumarez of Guernsey ; which Invention is intended to correct the many Errors of the Log , &amp;c. And they further declare , that they have not only thoroughly viewed , considered , and examined the said Machine , but have also made several Experiments of it in a rough Sea , sometimes sailing right before the Wind , then quartering ; at other Times turning to Windward , and then lying by to know the Drift of the Ship both with and against the Tide : That having tried the same Invention all Manner of Ways , they find it much preferable to the Log , or any of the Methods in use for obtaining the Ship 's Distance run , having nothing to object against it , as to its being a Clog or Hindrance to the sailing of the Ship &amp;c. That being fully satisfied of the great Usefulness of this Invention for the Improvement of Navigation , and the Service it may be of to all the Maritime Powers , they publicly attest the Truth of the above-mentioned Particulars , to the End the Author thereof may make such Use of it , as he shall think most proper .
In witness whereof , the Seal of the Royal Court of Guernsey is hereunto affixed by us the underwritten , Signed by the Judge Delegate and Jurats , as above-mentioned .
Here you have some Proof of the Usefulness of this new Invention , and that from Seamen of long Standing and Practice : But , notwithstanding these Testimonials , I was yet determined to have it tried further : Accordingly I made a Present of one of my Machines to a Friend of mine , Captain John Thoumes , who besides sides his Knowledge in the Theory and Practice of Navigation , was the better qualified to make Trial of it , in regard he had sometimes accompanied me in my Experiment on the Canal in St. James 's Park , and in the River Thames .
As he was then going a Voyage , I entreated him to act impartially with me , and to lose no Opportunity in letting me know how far , and with what Certainty , my Invention might be depended on .
Agreeable to my Request , he wrote twice to me on this Occasion : His first Letter was dated at Nantes the 20th of October 1724 , and the following is an Extract of it , viz. According to my Promise , I am to acquaint you , that I have had as favourable an Opportunity as I could have wished for , to try your Marine-Surveyor ; for some Part of my Voyage being from St. George 's Channel to the Bay of Biscay , I passed close to the Land's-End of England , with a moderate Gale of Wind at North , our Course S. by E. When I had the Land's-End East of me about 3 Miles , I began to reckon , and the next Morning , when Ushant bore West , about 5 Miles Distance , the Surveyor had made just 37 Leagues .
These two noted Headlands , which are very near under the same Meridian , differ in Latitude about 33 or 34 Leagues .
As for the Tides , we crossed them , having in this Run two Floods and two Ebbs ; and as the Wind blew cross the Channel , one Tide was no more influenced by it than the other , nor could the Current be any Impediment to the Trial .
Now as to our having 3 or 4 Leagues more than the true Distance , the Reason is very plain , since it cannot be expected but that a Ship before the Wind will deviate from her true Course , sometimes one Way , sometimes another , in her Yaws and Sheers .
Of this all Seamen men are sensible .
What I would remark from hence is , that the Surveyor measures all the little Traverses exactly ; it is therefore the Business of the Navigator to allow for this , when he works the Ship 's Run .
But I cannot help observing here , that a good Effect is produced from these little Traverses being so measured ; for should we be running boldly on the Land in a dark Night , it forewarns us to look out in time , by marking somewhat more than the true Distance sailed upon a straight Line .
Many are the Advantages which accrue to Navigation by this Invention , which I shall not take upon me to enumerate : In short , the Sailors are in love with it , and when at the Helm , they value themselves on chalking more Miles than those who went before them .
For my own Part , I am so pleased with it , that I have done with the Log. One excellent Quality I observe in it , which I cannot omit mentioning , ~ .
That in plying to Windward along Shore in a dark Night , our usual Way , by the Log , is to stand two or three Hours out , and so many in ; and here we may be a shore before we are aware , because in running out we may not have had so much Wind as in running in ; or we may have reef 'd Topsails , shortened Sail , hankered in the Wind , or have met with many other Impediments , which , by being drowsy in the Night , a Man may sometimes not take Notice of ; but it is otherwise with the Surveyor ; for if the Ship is hindered in her Way , it will not mark more Miles than she has run .
I have showed it to some curious Persons at Nantes , who are greatly delighted with it .
They wanted to see the Movement within , but I shall never grant that to a Stranger .
I have been offered fifty Pistols for it , and might have had more , would I have parted with it ; but I value the worthy Donor of it too much , to do any such Thing .
P. S. ` ` When I said my Course from the LandsEnd to Ushant was S. b E. it must be understood that I did not go on the Outside , but passed within , between Ushant and the Main : For in the other Case , to pass to the Westward , the Course had been about S. b W. to go clear of all .
The second Letter , which I received from Captain Thoumes , in relation to my Instrument , was dated at Guernsey the 2d of September 1725 ; and what follows is the Substance of it , so far as it relates to the Marine-Surveyor , viz. I am now fully confirmed of the Usefulness of your Marine-Surveyor , having tried it , this last Voyage to Marseilles and Toulon , sufficiently to persuade me , that it is greatly preferable to the Log. Having in two ~ Voyages in the Bay of Biscay been apprised , that the Ship 's Distance sailed , as obtained by the Marine-Surveyor , was really true , yet I was obliged every 24 Hours to shorten the Distance by a certain Proportion , that I guest to be near one seventh Part of the Whole ; which , from the Bearings of Headlands , &amp;c. I found constantly so .
However , to be better satisfied of this Allowance , I wanted a long Run , near , or upon a Meridian , with good Observations , which could not be had in the Bay or our Channels ; therefore , when I sailed for the Mediterranean , which was in January last , I continued to make the same Allowance , and cautioned my Mate to make it also .
It happened , that for the first eight Days , we had hard Gales of southerly Winds , attended with violent Squalls of Rain , and a distracted Sea , insomuch that we tried under a double reef 'd Main-sail , great Part of the Time , and drove to the Westward , without the Benefit of celestial Observations ; yet all the While the Marine-Surveyor struck the Miles of our Drift , which are to be seen upon our Journals for every Hour ; and so far did ~ depend on it , that I did not order the Log to be once hove .
After the bad Weather , the Wind changed with the new Moon , to N. N. E. and N. E. with a brisk Gale , which gave us a fair Run for five Days , near 50 Leagues every 24 Hours .
We had daily Observations , and our Course was near South .
Here it was , that I found the one seventh of the Ship 's Distance was to be deducted from the whole , and that it was for Yaws and Sheers , which the Marine Surveyor marks exactly .
After this Allowance was made , so well did my Reckoning agree with my Observation , that when there was 2 or 3 Miles difference , I rather imputed it to the Want of Exactness in my observing , or a Fault in the Quadrant , than to the Marine Surveyor , in regard my Mate also found it to agree to a surprising Exactness .
Three Weeks after our Departure , I had the Misfortune to lose the Fork of the Machine , and therefore was afterwards without the Help of the Surveyor , till our Arrival at Toulon ; which Place being one of the chief Nurseries for Navigators that serve the French King , I was the more concerned for my Loss ; but I in some measure repaired it , by ordering a Smith to make two such Forks , of nearly the same Dimensions and Turns in the Fins , as I could remember the other had , which served there so well , as to gain the Admiration of all who saw me try it .
My Merchant was so taken with it , that he desired me to show it to a Friend of his , a noted noted Professor of the Mathematicks in the College of Jesuits there .
He was all Surprise at the regular Motion of the Machine under Water , and more that it should so nicely determine the Distance sailed of any Ship or Boat .
I should swell my Letter to too great a Bulk , should I repeat the Conversation I had with this Jesuit , who importuned me much to see the Inside of the Clock-Work , offering me what I pleased for a Sight of it .
In a word , I was deaf to him , and many other Gentlemen of the Town , who crouded to me every Day on the same Account , and who were all greatly pleased with the Invention .
The Machine made by my Directions at Toulon , I used in my Way home , and found it to answer very well in the Ocean ; from whence arises this Remark , which sufficiently shows the Usefulness of your Invention , viz. That even rough ones , made by a mere Cobler of a Smith , and turned by the Directions of a short Memory which I dare not trust in many Things , are capable of answering the End for which you invented them .
It must be noted , that though I allow one seventh of the Ship 's Distance for her Deviation from her Course , yet some Ships are so built , that they will steer much truer , and others worse than our did ; and in this Case the Marine-Surveyor shows its Worth ; for if two Ships are in Company , the one ` steering well , the other ill , the Latter shall have more Miles than the Former on comparing their Run , although they set out from the same Port , and never part Company .
I should be wanting to my self , if I did not produce the most convincing Proof of the Usefulness of this new Invention ; I shall therefore add to the foregoing Testimonials , some other Certificates whereby it will further appear , that the Marine Surveyor has the Preference of the Log , viz. We the underwritten Masters of Ships , &amp;c. do certify all whom it may concern , That this 21st of ` October 1725 , we accompanied Mr. Henry de Saumarez on board the Richard Yatch , in order to make an Experiment of an Instrument invented by him , called the Marine-Surveyor ; and as by it he proposed to ascertain the Way of a Ship in the Sea , much more correctly than by any Thing hitherto invented for that Purpose , we tried it between London and Gravesend with the Log ( which we hove several Times ) to which it appears to us to have the Preference ; for by its constant and regular Motion , the Ship 's Distance sailed must be more exactly attained than by the Log ; which being hove but once in an Hour or two , cannot be so correct , in regard the Wind may increase or lessen soon after the Log is hove , in such Manner , that it entirely depends on him who chalks the Log-board to allow for it .
As therefore very considerable Errors must arise from thence , if a proper Allowance is not made for an Increase and Decrease of Wind ; and as the Marine-Surveyor is not subject to this , but keeps a regular Motion , according as the Wind is more or less : We are therefore of Opinion , that this new Invention is not only an ingenious Contrivance in its Kind , but is exactly calculated for the Ends proposed .
As witness our Hands this 21st of October 1725 .
Michael Hales , Benjamin Hutchinson , Signed in the Original Josiah Hales , Peter Perchard , 3 Robert Gamble .
` ` These These are to certify all whom it may concern , that I John Harris , who have used the Sea for thirty Years past and who was lately Mate of the William and Thomas , bound from London to Canso in America , was present , when Mr. Henry de Saumarez came on board our Vessel and fixed an Instrument at the Stern of her , called the MarineSurveyor , invented by him for ascertaining the Way of a Ship in the Sea , much more correctly that by the Log , or any Method hitherto in Use for that Purpose : And as he desired us to try it with the Log , and to make an impartial Report whether we found it preferable to the Log or not ; I do hereby , in Justice to that Gentleman , certify , That we kept our Reckoning both by the Log and this Instrument , and do find it much preferable to the Log , or any Thing that has yet appeared to me for attaining the Ship 's Distance sailed ; the Truth of which I am ready to testify on Oath , if called on to do it .
In witness whereof , I have hereunto set my Hand this 15th of November , 1725 .
Signed in the Robert Gamble , John Harris .
Presence of Elisha Dobree , It may perhaps be asked , how I came to produce a Certificate from the Mate , and not from the Captain of the William and Thomas ?
To which I answer , that the Mate left the Ship at Plymouth , and came to Town , so that I had an Opportunity of obtaining his Opinion of it , without the Captain 's , who soon after his Arrival in England , made the best of his Way to the Island of Guernsey : However , as I had defined him to try my Instrument with the Log , and impartially report to me , whether he found it preferable , or not , to that Method of obtaining the Ship 's Distance sailed ; he favoured me with a Letter from thence : His Name is Thomas Picot , and his Letter bears Date the 16th of November 1725 ; it is in French , and the Substance of it in English , is as follows , viz. That he had made use of the Marine-Surveyor in his Voyage to Canso in America , and had been more than ordinarily careful therein , in order to make a just Report of it ; that he had tried it upon a Meridian with good Observations , and found it to answer his Expectation and to be preferable to the Log , particularly in rough and stormy Weather ; that it had been much admired by several Masters of Ships , and particularly by Captain St. Lo , of his Majesty 's Ship the Ludlow-Castle , who expressed a great Liking to it .
He concludes his Letter with wishing I had an Opportunity to peruse his Journals , whereby it would fully appear how much my Invention is preferable to the Log. Being informed , that Captain Henry Daniell had come over as a Passenger from Canso in America , to England , in the aforesaid Vessel William and Thomas ; and being willing to obviate every Objection that might be brought against the Marine-Surveyor , I applied my self to that Gentleman for his Opinion of it , who was pleased to send me the following Certificate .
THESE are to certify all whom it may concern , that I Henry Daniell , who have been at Sea upwards of twelve Years , first as a Volunteer , and afterwards as a Midshipman , did lately come over as a Passenger in the William and Thomas , from Canso to Plymouth , in which Vessel there was an Instrument fixed at the Stern of her , called the Marine-Surveyor , invented by Mr. Henry de Saumarez , for ascertaining the Way of a skip in the Sea ; and as that Gentleman has applied to me for my Opinion of it , I do hereby certify , that we found it much more correct than the Log ; and that in a Gale of Wind , our Reckoning by it agreed with our Observation , which the Reckoning by the Log seldom did .
And I must , in Justice to that Gentleman , say , that we kept our Reckoning both by his Instrument and the Log , and found it much preferable thereto , or to any other Method for obtaining the Ship 's Distance .
In witness whereof , I have hereunto set my Hand this 4th of December 1725 .
H. Daniell .

