IL .
" On the successive Action of Sodium and Iodide of Ethyl upon Acetic Ether .
" By E. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. , and B. F. DUPPA , Esq. , F.R.S. Received January 13,1870 .
In a paper by Mr. J. Alfred Wanklyn , bearing the above title , and published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xviii .
p. 91 , the author refers to our memoir on the same subject printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1866 , vol. clvi .
p. 37 , and expresses his opinion 'that our interpretation of the nature of the reaction must be erroneous because it involves the disengagement of hydrogen .
This opinion is founded upon certain experiments which Mr. Wanklyn has himself made , and which are described in the number of Liebig 's 'Annalen ' for January 1869 , and in the Chemical Society 's Journal , vol. ii .
p. 371 .
In reference to this opinion we have to remark , first , that it is founded upon experiments which differ essentially from our own ; and , second , that even the results obtained in those experiments by the author do not warrant the conclusion , at variance with ours , which he has drawn from them , viz. that the evolution of hydrogen in this reaction is inadmissible .
The reaction , the theoretical explanation of which Mr. Wanklyn seeks to controvert , is described in the Philosophical Transactions , vol. clvi .
p. 38 , as follows:-- " When acetic ether is placed in contact with sodium it becomes hot , and a considerable quantity of gas is evolved , which , after being passed first through alcohol and then through water , burns with a nonluminous flame , and the products of combustion do not produce the slightest turbidity on agitation with baryta-water .
In fact the gas is pure hydrogen .
When the action is complete , the liquid solidifies on cooling to a mass resembling yellow beeswax .
By putting the sodium into the acetic ether as just described , it is difficult to conduct the operation to completion , owing to the liquid gradually assuming such a thick and pasty condition as to prevent the further action of the sodium .
" Owing to the difficulty of carrying the reaction far enough in this way we frequently employed a modification of this process , which is minutely described in the same memoir .
The modification consisted in placing the sodium in a separate vessel and causing the acetic ether to distil continuously over it ; thus the portions of acetic ether still unacted upon were brought , again and again , into contact with the sodium , whilst the non-volatile product of the operation was retained in a lower vessel .
As we acted upon several pounds of acetic ether at once , the operation frequently lasted several d'ays , and during the whole time torrents of hydrogen were evolved .
The temperature of the liquid in the distillation vessel was allowed to rise to 130 ?
C. , and the amount of sodium consumed was not much less than one atom for each molecule of acetic ether employed .
We have made several attempts to determine quantitatively the volume of hydrogen given off from a known weight of sodium , and also from a known weight of acetic ether , but in neither operation could we obtain a [ Feb. 24 , trustworthy result .
In the first case because the sodium , which fuses during the reaction , breaks up into a vast number of very minute globules , the final disappearance of which in the highly coloured and pasty product it is impossible to verify .
In the second case because the thickening of the liquid prevents the reaction being pushed far enough to decompose the whole of the acetic ether employed .
In a quantitative experiment , in which 4'857 grammes of acetic ether were acted upon by sodium in slight excess , 344'79 cub. centims. of hydrogen at 0 ?
C. and 760 millims. pressure were obtained .
If one molecule of acetic ether had lost one atom of hydrogen , 615'9 cub. centims. of gas ought to have been collected .
It was evident , however , that a large proportion of acetic ether still remained unattacked at the close of the experiment .
Such , then , was our mode of operating ; the hydrogen evolved was allowed freely to escape , the whole process was conducted at the ordinary atmospheric pressure , and the temperature varied from the boiling-point of acetic ether to 130 ?
C. Moreover the acetic ether used was prepared with the greatest care so as to ensure the absence of alcohol and water .
By our method of preparation , described in the memoir already cited , no traces of the former could be detected even in the crude ether ; nevertheless it was first placed for several days over fragments of fused calcic chloride , which apparently remained perfectly dry and unaffected ; it was then in some cases boiled for ten days or a fortnight upon many pounds of sodiumamalgam , which we find to be entirely without action upon pure acetic ether , whilst it rapidly attacks and removes alcohol , if the latter be added even in very small proportion to the acetic ether .
When acetic ether , sotreated and then distilled from the sodium-amalgam , was brought into contact with the sodium , an abundant evolution of hydrogen immediately commenced , and continued during the entire treatment , which , as already remarked , frequently lasted several days .
The general impression , however , produced upon us by the whole of our operations was , that the evolution of hydrogen was not quite so great as that theoretically required by the reactions which we believe to take place ; nevertheless it was obvious that no equations , from which free hydrogen was excluded , could possibly correctly express the chemical changes effected in this action .
Certain experiments were undertaken to trace the missing hydrogen , but as they have not hitherto been completed we will not further allude to them here .
We now turn to Mr. Wanklyn 's mode of experimenting .
This is not stated in his communication to the Royal Society , but is given in the Journal of the Chemical Society , vol. xvii .
p. 371 , and in the Ann. Chem. u. Pharm. for January 1869 , as follows : Exp. 1 .
" I sealed up a quantity of sodium with acetate of ethyl , which had been very carefully deprived of alcohol and water , and weighed the tube containing these materials .
I then heated the tube to 130 ?
C. for some time , until the contents had changed from liquid to solid .
After opening the tube and allowing any gas that might have formed to escape , I weighed it again .
The loss amounted to 0'5 in 100 parts of acetic ether .
" 1870o .
] 229 Exp. 2 .
" 5 cub. centims. of good acetate of ethyl and 0'3 grm. of sodium were sealed up in a small glass tube and heated in a water-bath to 100 ?
C. until all the sodium had disappeared .
The tube was then opened under water ; the evolved gas measured 25 cub. centims. at ordinary temperature , but at 0 ?
C. and 760 millims. pressure and dry it measured 23 cub. centims. If the volume of hydrogen be calculated , which is equivalent to 0'3 grm. sodium , it will be found to be 140 cub. centims. " Exp. 3 .
" Another specimen of acetic ether , which was prepared with greater care , evolved no gas by the action of potassium or sodium .
" It is thus evident that whilst we allowed all evolved gas freely to escape , Mr. Wanklyn operated in sealed tubes under great pressure , --an alteration in the conditions of the experiment which might well lead to a modification of the result .
Mons. L. Cailletet has recently shown that the evolution of hydrogen from zinc and hydrochloric acid is gradually diminished and finally stopped under increasing pressure ; and the same chemist also finds that the evolution of hydrogen from sodium-amalgam and water is diminished and finally stopped in a sealed tube .
It follows from these experiments that pressure retards or even interrupts a reaction in which a permanent gas is evolved , whilst it is known to exercise little or no influence upon other chemical changes in which no evolution of gas takes place .
This influence of pressure upon certain kinds of chemical action affords an explanation of the difference between the results of Mr. Wanklyn 's experiments and our own , as regards the evolution of hydrogen during the action of sodium upon acetic ether .
We can confirm his observation that sodium dissolves in valeric ether , under ordinary atmospheric pressure , without the evolution of any gas .
A reaction , whatever its nature may be , which thus proceeds readily with ethylic valerate can scarcely be impossible with its homologue , acetic ether , and it is probable that this reaction goes on side by side with those which we have described in our memoir ; but when the pressure is moderate those changes chiefly take place which involve the disengagement of hydrogen , whilst under the great pressure arising in sealed tubes these changes are more or less suppressed , and the reaction observed by Mr. Wanklyn comes into prominence .
Lastly , Mr. Wanklyn 's own experiments scarcely justify his unqualified opinion that " equations which assume evolution of hydrogen in these reactions are inadmissible .
" In two out of three of his experiments , hydrogen in considerable quantity was evolved ; and although in experiment No. 2 , given above , he attributes the hydrogen to the presence of alcohol , yet in experiment No. 1 its origin cannot be so explained , as he states expressly that the acetic ether employed " had been very carefully deprived of alcohol and water ; " yet the proportion of hydrogen evolved in this case was much larger than in experiment No. 2 .
We reserve our observations upon Mr. Wanklyn 's views regarding the changes which take place when sodium acts upon acetic , butyric , and valeric ethers , until the publication of the experimental data upon which those views are founded .

