87 On the Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
that they are approximately so , and that their accordance in all general respects is snch that they support each other and warrant the conclusions drawn from them .
I have again to acknowledge my deep indebtedness to the late lamented Professor Hertz for the very able advice he at all times so readily gave me while I was engaged on the above work under him at the University of Bonn during the session 1892\#151 ; 93 .
\#171 ; On the Leicester Earthquake of August 4,1893 .
" By Charles Davison , M.A. , F.G.S. , Mathematical Master at King Edward 's High School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor J. H. Pointing , F.R.S. Received February 28 , \#151 ; Read May 10 , 1894 .
On August 4,1893 , at 6.41 p.m. ( G.M.T. ) , an earthquake shock was felt throughout the whole of Leicestershire and Rutland , and in parts also of the adjoining counties of Lincoln , Nottingham , Derby , Stafford , Warwick and Northampton .
The disturbed area , therefore , lies entirely within the land .
It is also one over which villages and country houses are for the most part closely scattered , and it has thus been possible to obtain a large number of careful and detailed accounts .
I have received altogether 391 records from 298 places where the earthquake was observed , and 103 others from 97 places where , so far as known , no trace of it was perceived.* My inquiries were carried out on the supposition that tectonic earthquakes are , as a rule , mere incidents in the gradual development of faults , that the shock is caused by the friction which results from one rock-mass slipping slightly but heavily over and against the other , the accompanying sound and tremulous motion being due to the exceedingly small and rapid vibrations which proceed chiefly from the margins of the fault-surface over which the slip takes place , f The interpretation of the evidence collected rests on the following principles:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The direction of the fault is parallel , or nearly so , to that of the longer axis of the disturbed area , or of an isoseismal line .
( 2 .
) The intensity of the shock increases in both directions from the fault-line until a maximum is reached , and then decreases , so that .
* The expenses of the inquiry were defrayed by part of a grant which I had the honour to receive from the Government Research Fund .
I regret that I am unable to acknowledge in detail the valuable and courteous assistance rendered by my numerous correspondents .
t " On the Nature and Origin of Earthquake-sounds , " ' Gteol .
Mag./ vol. 9,1892 , pp. 206\#151 ; 218 .
VOL. LVII , H Mr. C. Davison .
on Loth sides of the fault , and close to it , there is a meizoseismal area ; * but the maximum intensity is greatest in the area situated on the side towards which the fault hades .
( 3 .
) Other conditions being the same , isoseismal lines which can be traced on both sides of the fault are further apart on the side towards which the fault hades .
( 4 .
) The nature of the fault-slip may be ascertained to a certain extent by the relative positions of the isoseismal lines , and by the time-and space-relations of the sound and shock .
Disturbed Area and Isoseismal Dines .
On the accompanying map are shown the principal places within the disturbed area and those to which reference is made in this paper .
The three curves are isoseismal lines corresponding to intensities 5 , 4 , and approximately 3 of the Rossi-Forel scale .
The latter may be regarded as practically the boundary of the disturbed area , though records have come from four places outside it where the shock was very slightly felt .
In drawing this line the knowledge of the places where no trace of the earthquake was perceived has been of considerable service .
The disturbed area is 58 miles long and 46 miles broad , and contains about 2066 square miles .
The isoseismal 4 encloses an area 47 miles long , 34 miles broad , and of about 1251 square miles ; that included by the isoseismal 5 is 17J miles long , 12 miles broad , and of about 163 square miles .
The directions of the longer axes of the three curves are about W. 38 ' 1ST .
and B. 38 ' S. , W. 40 ' 1ST .
and E. 40 ' S. , and W. 31 ' N. and B. 31 ' S. , respectively , the second probably being the most accurate .
The longer axis of the isoseismal of intensity 4 lies on the north-east side of that of the isoseismal 5 , and we therefore conclude that , if the earthquake be fault-formed , the direction of the fault must be about W. 40 ' 1ST .
and E. 40 ' S. , and its hade must be to the north-east .
The principal meizoseismal area is a narrow band , nearly parallel to the longer axis of the isoseismal 5 , and at a short distance from it on the north-east side .
It extends from Sheepshed to the neighbourhood of Rothley , a distance of eight miles .
The intensity was greatest at and near Woodhouse Eaves .
On the opposite side of the axis of the same isoseismal there is another , though less distinctly marked , meizoseismal area , which includes Markfield , but the intensity here was less than in the northeast meizoseismal area .
This confirms the previous conclusion that the fault must hade to the north-east .
It also shows that the fault-line must pass between .
* .term **meizoseismai area " is here used as denoting an area where the intensity is greater than in the surrounding region .
On the Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
Ha-rrirvgwot Ashley o J FamcLon o Thorpe - nruierWopd Aldwir le oddlngton 'BartonjSegrave Finedon EJladdon Area of the Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
MILES Woodhouse Eaves and Markfield .
The position of the fault is thus approximately determined .
Geology of the Fpi central District .
The rocks of Charnwood Forest have been described by Messrs. Hill and Bonney in a valuable series of memoirs.* The district is now being re-examined by Mr. C. Fox Strangways , of H.M. Geological Survey , to whom I am indebted for some additional information .
The part of the Forest region with which we are immediately con- * c The Preearboniferous Rocks of Charnwood Forest , " * Quart .
Journ. G-eol .
Soc. , ' toI .
33 , 1877 , pp. 754\#151 ; 789 ; vol. 34 , 1878 , pp. 199\#151 ; 239 ; yol .
36 , 1880 , pp. 337\#151 ; 350 .
H 2 Mr. C. Davison .
cerned is that lying near the centre of the isoseismal 5 .
Here the 1 beds , which are believed by Messrs. Hill and Bonney to be of pre- \#166 ; Cambrian age , " are elevated in an elongated dome-shaped anticlinal of which only one-half is visible , and the vertex points to the south- -1 east ; so that denudation has exposed the lowest beds at the northern end/ and the others lap round them in rudely elliptical zones .
" Along the anticlinal axis , the direction of which is approximately north-west and south-east , but in the neighbourhood of Woodhouse Eaves more nearly W. 40 ' N. and E. 40 ' S. , there appears to run a considerable fault , the beds on the south-west side being older than those on the north-east .
The course of this supposed fault is indicated on the map by a dotted line .
If the fault be a normal one , but of this there is no certainty from geological evidence , it must clearly hade to the north-east .
The close correspondence between the probable position of this fault and that of the fault suggested by the seismic evidence allows us to infer , I think , with some degree of confidence , that the Leicester earthquake was caused by a slip of the anticlinal fault of Charnwood Forest .
Nature of the Earthquake Phenomena .
In the present section I will first give a few brief descriptions of the earthquake , and will afterwards present a summary of the evidence from different points of view .
The first group of accounts are from places near the major axis of the disturbed area , the second from places near the minor axis of the isoseismal 5 , which may be regarded as the minor axis of the disturbed area .
1 .
( a. ) Accounts from places between the north-west end of the major axis and the isoseismal 5 : Quamdon , a dull rumbling sound first heard , as of some very distant explosion , lasting about five seconds , followed without any interval by a quick tremulous motion , which gradually increased in intensity , and then died away , intensity 3 .
Derby , a tremulous motion , increasing in intensity for three seconds , and then decreasing until it ceased after one second more , intensity 3 ; a soft , slightly tremulous sound heard for two seconds before the tremulous motion began , increasing in intensity and ending rather abruptly just before the tremulous motion was strongest .
Spondon , a tremulous motion for two or three seconds , preceding more prominent vibrations which lasted for two seconds more and were not followed by tremulous motion ; a rumbling sound like that of a heavy cart passing close to the house , the beginning and end of which coincided with , or slightly preceded , the beginning and end of the shock respectively , the sound loudest when the vibrations were strongest .
Weston-on-Trent , a slight tremulous motion for about two seconds , succeeded by two series of vibrations , each On the Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
91 lasting about two seconds , not followed by tremulous motion , intensity nearly 5 ; the beginning of the sound coincided with that of the shock , it began abruptly , and died away a second or two before the end of the shock .
The most interesting point brought out by these observations is that , as the earth-wave radiated from the centre , the sound apparently outraced the shock , leading at first sight to the conclusion that the velocity of the sound was greater than that of the shock .
In a later section it will be seen , however , that such a conclusion would be incorrect .
( 6 .
) Accounts from places within the isoseismal 5 : Mount St. Bernard 's Abbey , prominent vibrations , followed by tremulous motion , duration about five seconds ; the beginning of the sound slightly preceded that of the shock , the end of the sound followed that of the shock by at least three or four seconds .
Sheepshed , the vibrations gradually increased in intensity and then died away , duration about seven seconds ; the beginning of the sound preceded that of the shock by about two seconds , the end of the sound followed that of the shock by about two seconds , the sound loudest at the time when the vibrations were strongest .
Markfield , prominent vibrations , preceded and followed by tremulous motion , duration about five seconds ; the beginning of the sound slightly preceded that of the shock , the end coincided approximately with that of the shock , the principal vibrations felt at , or immediately after , the instant when the sound was loudest .
' Thus , at places close to the epicentrum the sound generally overlapped the shock at both ends , and there was little or no interval between their epochs of maximum intensity .
( c. ) Accounts from places between the isoseismal 5 and the southeast end of the major axis : Humberstone , principal vibrations for three or four seconds , strongest near the beginning , followed by tremulous motion for two or three seconds , intensity 4 ; the beginning and end of the sound coincided approximately with those of the shock .
Harringworth , tremulous motion , followed by principal vibrations , intensity 4 ; the beginning of the sound preceded that of the shock , the ends of both coincided , the principal vibrations felt after the instant when the sound was loudest .
Barton Segrave , the ' sound , a deep loud rumble , lasting four or five seconds , seemed to cease as the vibrations began ; these were strongest near the middle , and lasted about five seconds , intensity 3 .
In this direction also , then , the sound apparently outraced the shock .
2 .
Sutton ( near the north-east end of the minor axis ) , one series of vibrations , strongest towards the end , duration five or six seconds , intensity 3 ; the beginning of the sound preceded that of the shock by two or three seconds , the end followed that of the shock , the principal vibrations felt when the sound was loudest .
Barwell ( near the south-west end of the minor axis ) , principal vibrations for about Mr. C. Davison .
four seconds , followed by tremulous motion for about eight seconds ; | the beginning of the sound coincided with that of the shock , the end followed that of the shock by about two seconds , the principal vibra-j tions felt when the sound was loudest .
Both of these places are at 5 considerable distances from the fault-line , and on opposite sides of it .
Consequently , from these and similar observations , we may conclude that in the direction of the minor axis there is no sign of the sound outracing the shock .
Time-Relations of the Sound and The beginning of the sound preceded that of the shock at o9 places , coincided with it at 11 , and followed it at 3 , places .
The latter are , however , close to places where the sound was heard before the shock .
Hence , in all parts of the disturbed area , the beginning of the sound as a rule preceded that of the shock .
The end of the sound preceded that of the shock at 16 places , coincided with it at 6 , and followed it at 16 , places .
In the majority of cases , the end of the sound preceded that of the ^hock at places near the major axis , and especially close to the ends of it ; and it followed the end of the shock at places chiefly within the isoseismal 5 and in the neighbourhood of the minor axis .
The epoch of maximum intensity of the sound preceded that of the shock at 19 places , which are as a rule near the ends of the major axis , coincided with it at 18 places , which are not far distant from the epicentrum or minor axis , and followed it at 3 places , namely , Rothley , Woodhouse Eaves and 'Wymondham .
Lastly , the sound appeared to precede the shock entirely at seven places , Ashley , Barton Segrave , Bretby , Farndon , Hazelbeach Hill , Quarndon and Wartnaby .
Six of these are close to the ends of the major axis , and still closer to the continuation of the anticlinal faultline .
Thus , the more detailed evidence here summarised supports the conclusion previously stated , that the sound apparently outraced the shock in the direction of the major axis of the disturbed area , but not in the direction of the minor axis .
Space-Relations of the Sound and Shock.\#151 ; In the absence of any scale of seismic sound-intensity , it has not been possible to indicate the position of any isacoustic lines .
It is clear , however , that they would not be concentric with the isoseismal lines .
For instance , the shock was felt , while no sound was heard , by the observers at Burton-on-Trent , Castle Donington , Cole Orton , Long Eaton and Staunton .
The sound was heard , while no shock was felt , by the observers at Aldwincle , East Haddon , Finedon , Holme , Loddington , Ragdale Hall and Thorpe Underwood .
In one or two cases this may have been due merely to defective observation ; but , on the whole , it is evident that the shock was a more prominent feature than the On the Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
93 sound near the north-west end of the major axis , while the sound was more prominent than the shock near the south-east end .
Origin of the Earthquake .
Whatever may be the extent of the fault-surface over which a slip takes place , there must , in the simplest case , be a certain central region over which the slip is comparatively great , surrounded by a marginal area over which it is very small , and gradually diminishes in all directions until it disappears along the boundary .
The minute and exceedingly rapid vibrations proceeding chiefly from this marginal area are , I believe , those which are perceptible as sound ; the sound which precedes , accompanies and follows the shock being produced by the vibrations which come from the nearer lateral margin , the upper margin chiefly , and the further lateral margin , with reference to the place of observation .
In the case of the Leicester earthquake , the sound was observed before the shock all over the disturbed area , because no part of that area was at a great distance from the nearer lateral margin of the seismic focus .
But some places , especially near the end of the major axis , were so far from the further lateral margin that no sound following the shock could be heard .
At a place ( like Quamdon ) close to one end of the major axis , the sound-vibrations from the further edge of the nearer lateral margin were nearly or quite imperceptible , and the sound entirely preceded the shock .
A little nearer the epicentrum ( at Derby ) the sound-vibrations from the nearer part of the upper margin were perceptible , and consequently the sound partly overlapped the shock , but the beginning , epoch of maximum intensity , and end of the sound preceded respectively those of the shock .
Lastly , at places close to the epicentrum the sound-vibrations from the further lateral margin could be perceived , and thus the sound was heard both before , during and after the shock , while the epochs of their maximum intensity were nearly or quite coincident .
In the neighbourhood of the minor axis the sound was heard at the same time as the shock , and generally both before and after .
No interval was apparent between their epochs of maximum intensity , for the places of observation were at nearly the same distance from the upper lateral margin and central area of the seismic focus .
The time-relations of the sound and shock are thus readily explained on the supposition that the sound-vibrations come chiefly from the marginal area of the seismic focus .
But this theory of their origin receives a stronger support from the observations summarised above than its mere capability of offering a satisfactory explanation .
The sound was heard before the shock practically at 94 On the Leicester Earthquake of August 4 , 1893 .
all parts of the disturbed area ; it was heard after the shock at places near the ends of the minor axis but not of the major axis .
This shows , I think , that the preliminary and subsequent sounds must have been due to vibrations proceeding from two distinct origins , situated roughly in a north-west and south-east line .
Length of the Fault-Slip.\#151 ; On this subject our conclusions are of necessity only approximate .
It may be shown , however , that the seismic focus must have been several miles in length .
The elongated form of the disturbed area and of the isoseismal lines is sufficient evidence of this .
If the slip were instantaneous , the length of the focus would probably be greater than the difference between the length and breadth of the disturbed area , i.e. , than about 12 miles .
Again , the curve which includes all places on the north-west side of the minor axis at which the sound preceded the shock , and all those on the south-east side at which it followed the shock , bounds the area over which the sound-vibrations from the north-west lateral margin were perceptible .
Similarly may be obtained the area over which the sound-vibrations from the south-east lateral margin were observed .
The centres of these areas must , as a rule , lie vertically over the corresponding lateral margins , and the distance between them must therefore be less than the length of the seismic focus .
It is difficult to determine the centre of the north-west area very exactly , but the length of the fault-slip , as ascertained by this method , cannot have been much less than 12 or 15 miles .
It is possible , however , that the slipping did not take place instantaneously , * and , if so , these estimates may be a little too great .
But , in any case , the fault-slip must have been continued for some distance under the Triassic rocks on which Leicester is situated .
Nature of the Fault-Slip.\#151 ; The intensity of the shock was greatest on the north-east side of the fault at and near Woodhouse Eaves , and on the south-west side at Markfield .
The line joining these places is perpendicular to the fault-line , and we may therefore conclude that the slip was greatest at this part of the fault .
For a distance of two or three milesf in either direction the slip may have been considerable , and it then died out rather rapidly in amount towards the northwest , and much more slowly towards the south-east .
That the south-east lateral margin of the seismic focus was longer than the north-west is shown ( 1 ) by the relative distances between the iso* The great extension of the isoseismal 4 towards the south-east may be partly due to the fault-slip starting near Woodhouse Eaves and spreading out rapidly in either direction , but towards the south-east with a velocity not much greater than that of the earth-wave .
t The difference between the length and breadth of the isoseismal 5 is about five miles .
On the different Forms of Breathing .
95 seismal lines in these directions , and ( 2 ) by the greater prominence of the sound in the south-east part of the disturbed area and of the shock in the north-west part .
After two or three seconds there appears ( from the double character of the shock ) to have been a second and slighter slip , probably at a short distance to the north-west of the former .
History of the Gharnwood Forest Fault.\#151 ; The greater part of the displacement along the anticlinal fault seems to have taken place in pre-Carboniferous times , leaving only a few hundred feet to be accomplished in subsequent periods.* Earthquakes in the Charnwood district are now extremely rare .
Between December 23 , 1838 , and August 4 , 1893 , we have not one recorded.f The shocks of the present century thus indicate at how slow a rate the fault is now growing .
They also show that that growth has not yet ceased , and enable us to form some conception of the vast interval of time over which the life of a fault may extend .
" On the Different Forms of Breathing .
" By William Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 12 , \#151 ; Bead June 21 , 1894 .
Revised September 7 , 1894 .
I must beg leave at the outset to acknowledge the valuable aid of my Assistant , Mr. R. B. Moris , F.C.S. , in the present inquiry .
An investigation of this kind , necessitating much consideration , can only be carried to a successful issue by arguments and discussions , and to Mr. Moris much credit is due for the light these discussions have shed on the inquiry ; I feel also indebted to him for the care he has bestowed on the numerous analyses he has made for me , and for the accuracy with which-his work has invariably been done .
From a general view of the function of respiration it follows that there are four fundamental forms of breathing ; their characters are the following 1st .
Normal breathing in the state of repose\#151 ; a regular succession of the respiratory movements , involuntary , unattended with fatigue , and leaving an approximately unchanged balance between the C02 in store , in the blood , and the C02 expired .
2nd .
Forced breathing\#151 ; a voluntarily increased thoracic expansion , brought about by the contraction of muscles differing more or less from those in common use in respiration and attended with fatigue .
The expiration of carbonic acid is increased beyond the normal ; * 'Quart .
Journ. Geol , Soc. , ' vol. 34 , 1878 , p. 232 .
' ' \#174 ; ''Per\gt ; * A List of the more remarkable Earthquakes in Great Britain and Ireland during the Christian Era ' ( Lancaster , 1889 ) , pp. 34\#151 ; 42 .

