1884 .
] Influence of Change of Condition 011 Vapour-Pressure .
499 II .
" Influence of Change of Condition from the Liquid to the Solid State on Vapour-Pressure.'* By William Ramsay , Ph. D. , Professor , and Sydney Young , D.Sc .
, Lecturer and Demonstrator of Chemistry in University College , Bristol .
Communicated by Professor James Thomson , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received April 15 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) !
The object of this paper is to furnish* experimental proof of the theory advanced by Professor James Thomson ( " Brit. Assoc. Reports , " 1871 and 1872 , and " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 22 , p. 27 ) , that the pressure exerted by the vapour of a solid substance at a given temperature is less than that of the vapour of the substance in the liquid form at the same temperature .
This relation was specially sought for- by Regnault , and , as shown by Professor Thomson , he unwittingly furnished a proof for it in the formulae devised by him to express the vapour-pressures of ice and of water .
Regnault himself , however , from the results of numerous experiments , came to an opposite conclusion , and this conclusion is as yet generally accepted ? . .
A graphic representation of the results obtained by us on heating camphor in a barometer-tube to temperatures ranging from about 150 ' C. to 200 ' C ' .
shows ( 1 ) considerable irregularity about the melting-point , and ( 2 ) that a prolongation of the portion of the curve representing relation of pressure to temperature above the melting-point would intersect the portion below the melting-point .
With benzene , also , the vapour-pressures of which were determined by the method described by ns in a paper shortly to appear in the " Transactions " of the Society , the solid-gas curve is evidently not continuous with the liquid-gas curve .
Employing the same apparatus , acetic acid was successfully cooled to temperatures far below its freezing-point without solidification , and numerous extremely concordant observations of the vapour-pressures both of the liquid and of the solid acid were obtained .
These observations represented graphically , form two widely divergent curves which intersect in the neighbourhood of the melting-point of the solid acid , 16''4 .
The barometric method was next employed ; but the results , like those obtained by Regnault , were capricious .
That this capriciousness was not attributable to the presence of air was proved by special experiments , and it remains unaccounted for .
* Several very careful determinations of the vapour-pressures of ice and of water below the freezing-point were made .
A comparative VOL. XXXVI .
2 M Presents .
[ Mar. 6 , method was first employed , in which iee , and water cooled below its freezing-point were simultaneously-subjected to the same pressure which could be varied at will , and the differences of temperature noted .
Another series of observations had reference to the vapour-pressures of ice alone , at temperatures ranging from 0 ' to \#151 ; 16 ' .
The numbers obtained , when represented graphically , proved not to be identical with those calculated by means of Regnault 's formulae D and E : accepting formula D , which represents the vapour-pressures of steam in contact with water , as correct , owing to the greater number of observations and the greater range of temperature over which they extend , the ice-steam curve was recalculated by the method given by Professor James Thomson , and it was found that our observations agreed m'uch more closely with this curve than with that deduced from Regnault 's formula E. In the original paper , figures and diagrams illustrating these points are given .
As these substances\#151 ; camphor , benzene , acetic acid , and water\#151 ; are representatives of very different chemical types , it may be held to be true for all stable substances that the vapour-pressure of the solid is less than that of the liquid at the same temperature , and that the differences between these pressures are calculable from thermic data , where these are known .
In conclusion , attention is drawn to the new method of ascertaining the vapour-pressures of solids and liquids , and a full statement of the important advantages which it offers is given .
Presents , March 6 , 1884 .
Transactions .
Cambridge ( U.S. ) :\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College .
Bulletin .
Vol. XI .
No. 9 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1883 .
The Museum .
London:\#151 ; British Pharmaceutical Conference .
Year-book of Pharmacy , 1883 .
8vo .
London 1883 .
The Conference .
Society of Biblical Archaeology .
Transactions .
Vol. VIII .
Parts 1 and 2 .
8vo .
London 1884 .
The Society .
Stockholm:\#151 ; K. Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademie .
Bihang till Handlingar .
Band VIII .
Haft 1 .
8vo .
Stockholm 1883\#151 ; 84 .
The Society .
Journals .
Bullettino di Bibliografia e di Storia .
Agosto 1882\#151 ; Aprile 1883 .
4to .
Boma 1882-83 .
The Prince Boncompagni .

