]\gt ; Electric in Flashes .
This gives ( 18 ) and the wave-length is .
( 19 ) Also we have .
( 20 ) If , the amplitude of vibration is reduced in one period in the ratio In this case .
( 21 ) / On Some of the Sign gnitude of Electric in Lightning Flashes .
By C. T. , F.R.S. , Observer in Physics at the Solar Physics Observatory , Cambridge .
( Received June 3 , 1916 .
) The and magnitude of the electric transferred from the atmosphere to the earth in flashes are of interest , not only in themselves , but also as having to be taken into account in any attempt to test whether there is a balance in the interchange of electrical charges between the atmosphere and the surface of the earth .
As is well known , the evidence at present available appears to show that on the whole an excess of positive electricity passes from the atmosphere to the earth as a result of conduction by ions and convection by charged aindrops .
I am not aware of the existence of any data on which more than the roughest estimate of the magnitude of lightning discharges could be based .
Schuster , arting with two by Pockels of the maximum * Schuster , ' Progress of Physics 1908 .
' 'Met .
Zeitschrift , ' p. 40 ( 1901 ) .
Mr. C. T. R. Wilson .
On the Sign current , measured by means of ibs magnetising effect , and taking 1/ 1000 second as the duration of a flash , estimates the quantity brought down by a discharge as about 10 coulombs .
It hardly seems possible to use systematically a direct method for the measurement of lightning , i.e. , to induce the discharges to traverse any form of measuring apparatus .
The most promising method would seem to be that of making absolute measurements of the sudden changes produced in the vertical electric field at a given point of the earth 's surface by lightning flashes in the neighbourhood .
A measurement of the difference between the vertical electric force immediately before and immediately after the flash at a sufficiently number of points would us a measure of the discharge ; for the total resulting displacement current must be equal and opposite to the current passing from the atmosphere to the earth in the discharge .
Although it is hardly practicable to carry out this method in its ideal form , there are two ways in which we may make approximation to it .
If the sole object of our investigations were the solution of the general problem of the part played by lightning discharges in the interchange of electrical charges between the atmosphere and the earth , we simply accumulate , over a long period , and at as many places as possible , measurements of the instantan eous changes of fiela1 due to lightning , and thus eventually obtain an approximation to the total charge transferred from the atmosphere to the earth in lightning discharges in a known time .
We may , on the other hand , measure the changes of field due to htning occurring at known distances from the place of observation .
It is with the results obtained by this method of study that this paper deals .
Let us consider the case of a lightning flash in which a charge of electricity , derived from a certain region of the atmosphere , passes to earth .
The resulting in the electric field at the place of observation i.e. , the difference between the vertical force at before and after the discharge , is due to the disappearance of the charge which occupied the A and of the induced charge on the surface of the ground .
The effect of the latter is most conveniently considered by substituting for it the of Q. The surface of the earth is assumed to be an equipotential surface before and after the discharge .
Treating the earth as a spherical conductor and applying the method of images , we know*that a charge at the point in the atmosphere , ethsr with the indqced charge , produces at a vertical force , , .
J. J. son , ' Elements of Electricity and Magnetism , ' p. 146 .
Magnitude of Electric in Lightning .
557 where is the radius of the earth , is the distance of from the centre of the earth , and is the distance Op ; or , putting .
The factor differs from unity by less than one part in a thousand : even when is as great as 10 kilom .
We may thus negiect the effect of curvature , all with which we shall be concerned being small compared with the radius of the earth .
The charge of an element of volume surrounding any point at a above the has its image at at an equal depth below the surface ; the and at and have the same effect for all points ) ground as the at and the induced on the surface of the ground .
If is the distance Op , the vertical electric force at due to and its image is change in the vertical force at the point due to the discharge of to earth is , where is the charge removed from an element of volume at a height and a distance .
from O. If has been symmetrically distributed in concentric spheres about centre , or if it has all been derived a region whose dimensions small compared with , the distance of that point from , we may substitute for , being the mean height from which the is derived .
QH is the electric moment of the discharge .
If then we are able to measure the changes of field due to distant lightning discharges and also the distances of these discharges , we may deduce their electric moments .
With several observing stations it would be possible to localise the discharges by the magnitudes of the observed of field at the different places .
The results discussed in this paper were obtained by obselving the time-interval between the occurrence of each sudden change of field and the beginning of the succeed- ing thunder .
It was found possible to apply this method up to distances of more than 20 ( on one oocasion of 30 ) kilom .
The distance measured in this way is not as defined above , but ( on the assumption that the discharge is vertical ) , the .
distance to the point where the discharge enters the ground .
The distance may be taken as indistinguishable from if is large , e.g. , 10 times H. For such distances we may put , where-F is the sudden of field .
For smaller distances ( if we assume that the electricity discharged in the htning had been so distributed that we may regard it as been concentrated at a point ) , where is what we may call the uncorrected moment of the discharge .
The height which the discharge takes place is unknown , but we Mr. C. T. R. Wilson .
On the Sign and might expect to get information about the average height by accumulating sufficient data to enable us to find how varies with the distance .
The observations which have already been made appear show that in certain storms the successive discharges are very much alike both as regards the height from which they have come and the quantity of electricity discharged .
In such a case it is possible to deduce and , and therefore also , from the manner in which the sudden of electric force depends on the distance of the discharge , just as in the corresponding netic problem we might find the moment of a magnet as well as the distance between its poles by observing the magnetic force produced by it at different distances in its equatorial plane .
us now suppose that the discharge is not to earth but between two regions , A and , of the atmosphere .
As a result a charge is transferred from A to B. The change of the vertical field at the point is now the difference between the field due to the charge when at A and at respectively , the effect of the induced charge on the round being as before obtained by substituting for it an equal charge at and , the images of A and B. We may again as a first approximation to the actual problem treat the charge as being concentrated at its " " centre of mass\ldquo ; before and after the discharge , i.e. treat the as if it took place between two points , and , in the atmosphere .
The change in the vertical electric force at is then equal to , where are the distances of from and respectively , and are equal to and being the heights of A and above the round .
If the discharge is vertical and at a sufficient distance , we may put approximately , and the change in the vertical force at becomes wlJereM is the electric moment of the discharge .
It is plain that in the case of the discharge between two points in the atmosphere the sign of the change of field due to a discharge depends on whether or is the greater .
If , for example , we had a series of vertical discharges , all between the same two heights in the atmosphere , in a storm over the place of observation , the sign of the change of field would be reversed when the discharge took place at a distance such that was equal to .
It should be noticed that when the discharge is between two points in the atmosphere the interval between the discharge and the beginnir4 of the thunder is not a measure of , the distance from to a point below the discharge , but more nearly of the distance to the nearest ehd of the discharge , i.e. of Magnitude of Electric Discharges in Lightning Fllashes .
559 Method Employed in the Investigations in Atmospheric Electricity at the Solar Physics Observatory .
The observations on the sudden changes of the electrical field due to lightning flashes were made with apparatus which had been designed to measure also the electric field at the earth 's surface and the current from the atmosphere to the ground , including both that due to conduction by ions and that due to the electric carried by rain or other form of precipitation .
The method may be regarded as a development of one described some years ago.* This depended upon an insulated conductor at zero potential by means of \ldquo ; compensator\ldquo ; whose measured the which had to be iven to the conductor to keep its potential zero : ( 1 ) when first exposed to the earth 's electric field by the removal of an earthed cover , ( 2 ) while kept exposed , and ( 3 ) when again covered .
In the method now to be described the compensation is automatic and the may , therefore , be made self-recording .
The principle of the method will be understood by reference to the .
A is a conductor whose flat upper surface is on the same level as the surrounding ground .
It is supported on insulators but connected to earth through an instrument indicated rammatically at , whose reading is a measure of the quantity of electricity which has traversed it , and which is of such a nature that the potential of A is never allowed differ appreciably from zero .
A type of capillary electrometer described later was found suitable as the instrument .
is an earthed conducting cover .
With in position A is uncharged .
If is removed a charge flows through into A from the earth , identical in and magnitude with that on any equal area ( correction being made for the ) of the surrounding flat ground .
The resulting change of of is thus a measure of the * C. T. R. Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 80 , p. 537( Magnitude of Electric Discharges in Lightning Flashes .
561 while nearly level , is slightly convex , the fall of level not exceeding 2 feet at a distance of 40 feet from the test-plate in any direction .
There are no trees nearer than 100 yards ( 91 metres ) , and the nearest house is the farm- house , about 180 yards ( 165 metres ) away .
The grass in the immediate neighbourhood of the test-plate was kept short .
The electrometer and other necessary apparatus is housed in a zinc-roofed wooden hut , feet cm .
) in area , and having a maximum height in the middle of the roof of feet ( 260 cm It is placed with its longer side in an E.-W .
direction , the centre of the hut feet ( 1403 cm .
) due north of the centre of the test-plate .
The roof is in metallic FIG. 2 .
connection with a copper lightning conductor connected to a large copper earth-plate .
For the measurements other than those to it seemed desirable to make the exposed conductor approximate in character to a portion of the earth 's surface , isolated to enable the it to be measured , but otherwise differing as little as possible from the surrounding ground .
It consists of two earth-filled circular sieves , one resting on the top of the other , cm .
in diameter , and having together a depth of 18 cm .
, supported on three insulators in a concentric pit cm .
in diameter and 45 cm .
deep .
The sieves are completely filled with earth , the upper surface of which is on a level with the surl.ounding ground .
An air-gap cm .
wide separates the wooden rim of the upper sieve from the sides of the pit , which has a lining of wood , made out of a barrel with both ends sawn off .
The effective area of the exposed surface of the test-plate , taken as the mean of that of the mouth of the pit and of that of the sieve , is 2220 sq .
cm .
Magnitude of Electric Discharges in Lightning Flashes .
563 sieves have beeu able to absorb the rain falling on them .
No appreciable error is , however , likely to be introduced , even if the exposure be continued after water begins to drip from the under surface of the earth-filled sieves , the potential being always maintained at zero by the electrometer within one- or two-thousandths of a volt .
In measuring the potential gradient by observing the in the electrometer reading on removing or replacing the earth-connected cover , it is assumed that the latter and the surface of the test-plate are at the same potential .
With a vertical distance of 10 cm .
between the surfaces , potential difference of 1 volt would give a 10-per-cent .
error in potential gradient of 100 volts per metre .
Any error of this kind due to contact potential differences will be small when both surfaces are of earth , connected to the ground by copper wires , with copper plates at each end ; considerable error will be introduced if one only of these plates is of some other metal .
Measurements of the sudden changes of radiant due to discharges , with which we are concerned in the present paper , are unaffected by the sources of error which we have been considering . .
Given a suitable electrometer , and in particular one which is dead-beat and sufficiently rapid in its action , such measurements are very easily made .
It is not really essential for this purpose that the electrometer should have the property , postulated above for the instrument , of automatically maintaining the conductor connected to it at zero potential .
An electrometer of the gold-leaf or stretched-fibre type may be used .
In this case a sudden change of the earth 's field ] cause the electrometer to indicate a sudden change of potential , where is the charge which would have passed from the exposed conductor to the ground if it had been earth-connected , and is the capacity of the exposed conductor , electrometer , and connecting wire .
For the measurement of smaller changes in the electric field , such as are produced by very distant lightning discharges , a second exposed conductor on which the charge for a given potential gradient was more than 30 times as great , was arranged to be available as an alternative to the flat testplate .
It consists of a copper sphere , 30 cm .
in diameter , held when in use at a height of 480 cm .
above the round , and at a distance of 407 cm .
to the west of the nearest end of the hut .
An iron pipe , 14 feet ( 427 cm .
) in length and 5 cm .
in external diameter , serves to support the sphere and to protect the wire connecting the sphere with the electrometer .
The sphere is c , arried at the end of a brass tube , 22 mm. in diameter , projecting 39 cm .
beyond the top of the iron pipe , from which it is insulated by plugs of sulphured ebonite .
To the lower end of the Magnitude of Electric Discharges in Lightning flashes .
at the same potential by them together by a wire , the mercury and acid in the capillary are tlisplaced through a distance in the FIG. 3 .
direction from A to , then the surface of A in contact with the acid has been increased by an amount , while that of is diminished by an equal amount .
The positive charge on the surface of the mercury in contact with the acid is increased in A and diminished in by where is the capacity per unit area of the mercury-sulphuric-acid surface and is the contact potential difference between the liquids .
The negative charge on the acid in contact with A has been increased and that in contact with diminished by the same amount .
A quantity of electricity has therefore flowed round the closed circuit in the direction of displacement of the .
The reversible action of the capillaly electrometer is well known and was described by Lippmann in his early papers .
displacement may be produced by applying a pressure difference between the ends or by inclining the tube ; it may equally well be effected by momentarily insertin a small electromotive force in the circuit .
In each case the displacement is a measure of the quantity of electricity which has traversed the electrometer .
If we remove the short-circuiting wire and connect with the earth , then any charge given to A will cause a displacement that the acid column moving until the potential of A is reduced to zero .
The movement of the instrument when used to measure a in this way is extremely rapid and is completely dead-beat .
While the electrometer is ( in its ideal form ) without control when its terminals are connected together , it has an extremely strong , purely electrical , control on open circuit , the liberated by even a very small displacement a potential difference between A and , and consequent rence of surface tension between the two mercury-sulphuric-acid surfaces , sufficient to exert a considerable opposing force .
The constant of the instrument is readily determined by connecting it to a condenser of known capacity and charging the condenser through the Magnitude of Electric Discharges in Lightning Flashes .
567 the actual potential gradient by momentarily replacing the cover were positive and ranged between 100 and 200 volts per metre .
Sign of Change of Field.\mdash ; Of the 33 discharges observed , gave positive and 18 negative changes of field .
Magnitude of Change of Field.\mdash ; This varied from 50 to 760 volts per metre .
Distance of Discharges.\mdash ; Towards the end of the time during which the observations lasted , the intervals between the discharges became sufficiently great to admit of the timing of the interval between the individual discharges and the thunder which followed .
In the four observations made in this way the time-intervals varied between 45 and 60 seconds , corresponding to distances of from 15 to 20 kilom .
; the change of field produced by each of these four discharges was negative .
Electric Moments of the Discharges ( Uncorrected ) .
these four the values of in elecbrostatic measure were : , and , the distances being 20 , 17 , 17 , and 15 kilom .
AUGUST 21 , 1914.\mdash ; Observations made with sphere and gold-leaf electrometer .
Obselvations lasted from 5 to P.lf .
The potential gradient both at the beginning and end of the observations was positive , and about 120 volts per metre .
Sign of C'hange of \mdash ; Of the 39 discharges observed , 13 produced positive and 23 negative changes of field , the remaining 3 being cases of double or multiple with a re-ultant little from zero .
Magnitude of Changes of From 1 volt to volts per metre .
Distance.\mdash ; Measured in the case of three discharges , and 33 kilom .
Electr ( Uncorrected).\mdash ; The values of corresponding to these distances were , and Owing to the frequency of the there was room for some uncertainty in the identification of the thunder resuIting from a given discharge .
AUGUST 12 , 1915.\mdash ; The observations were made with the flat test-plate and the capillary electrometer .
The observations began about 12 .
, and were discontinued at 12.50 .
Sign of Changes of Field.\mdash ; Positive in 30 cases , negative in 4 .
Magnitude of es of Field due to Discharges.\mdash ; From 1000 to volts per metre .
tcvnce.\mdash ; Observations were obtained of the distances of all the 34 discharges .
They ranged from to 10 kilom .
Mr. C. T. R. Wilson .
On the Sign Discussion of the R\amp ; sults .
The observations are as yet too few for drawing any general conclusions as to the direction of the electric current in lightning discharges .
It is , howeve of interest to note that in the series of storms of August 12 to August 15 , 1915 , the direction of the current was upward in nearly all the If we leave out of consideration the results obtained when the discharges were nearer than 5 kilom .
, the values obtained for are , with few exceptions , comprised between and being measured in electrostatic units and in centimetres .
The values obtained continue to increase with tlre distance , esting that even the more distant discharges may have been too near to admit of being taken as appr.oximately equal to , the electric moment of the discharge .
The results of the observations made in the storm of August 15 , 1915 , are of special interest on account of the systematic way in which increases with ( fig. 5 ) .
It is difficult to believe that the electric moments can themselves have varied in any regular way with the distance of the discharge from the observer ; it is much more natural to assume that was independent of this distance , and to interpret the regularity as implying that the lightning flashes of this storm were approximately alike both as regards their vertical and the quantity of electricity discharged .
The nature of the variation of with is in facG in reement with this view .
Assuming that discharges all of equal amount pass from the same height in the atmosphere to the earth , we have seen that The curve I of fig. 5 is obtained by plotting the calculated values of agai1nst , assuming .
and electrostatic units coulombs .
This fits the observations very well .
The one point which lies far from the curve is at so nearly wics the height of the curve as to suggest that it may represent the bined result of two nearly simultaneous discharges .
We , on the other hand , suppose that each discharge was entirely in the atmosphere and that it might be arded as passing between two points one vertically above the other at heights and , approximately the same for all the discharges .
The distance given by the thunder observations must now be take .
as representing , that between the observer and the lower extremity of the discharge .
Curve II ( fig. 5 ) represents the calculated values of plotted against Magnitude of Electric Discharges in Lightning Flashes .
571 , when kilom .
, kilom .
, electrostatic units coulombs .
This again represents fairly accurately the results of the observations .
Observations of discharges at shorter distances would at once have distinguished between the two hypotheses , for the second one involves a reversal of the change of field for distances less than 5 kilom .
The value which has to be assigned to to make the curves fit the observations is , however , practically identical in the two cases .
It was noted at the time that the thunder was of the growling kind which one is inclined to associate with discharges which do not reach the surface of the earth .
The most natural interpretation of the results of the observations would thus appear to be that the discharges of this storm took place within the thunder cloud , and that they were of great vertical extending almost throughout the whole height of the troposphere .
It is perhaps worthy of note that the curve obtained by putting , also fits the observations fairly well if we exclude those of discharges at distances exceeding 15 kilom .
; the value which has to be assigned to to make the curve fit the observations is , it will be noticed , almost unchanged .
While , therefore , the observations leave room for some uncertainty as to the heights in the atmosphere between which the discharges occurred , is little doubt that the quantity of electricity discharged in each htning flash of the storm was about electrost , atic units ( coulombs ) .
The momentary electric currents constituting the discharges in this storm were upwards in nearly all cases .
This may be interpreted as , indicating that the falling rain drops of the thunder cloud were positively charged , leaving behind them a negative charge in the upper part of the cloud and , if they reached the ground , an excess of negative electricity in the cloud as a whole .
The lightning discharges were continually tending to neutralise the electric field produced .
The lightning may have reached the earth , or may not have extended below the cloud , or both kinds of discharges may have occurred .
At reat distances , owing to the smallness of in compal.ison with H2 , the instantaneous effects on the potential gradient at the surfaoe of the ground would be similar for both kinds of disclJal.ge , the longer ] laving , however , a somewhat larger effect on account of its greater moment .
The difference in the effects would increase with diminishing distance , of the effect due to the shorter discharge finally reversed .
Now three of the discharges observed took place in two stages , as was shown by the nature of the movement of the meniscus ; in each case the results can be explained by regarding the two stages as having consisted ( 1 ) in the discharge from the upper to the lower part of the cloud , ( 2 ) from Mr. C. T. R. Wilson .
On the Sign and the lower part of the cloud to earth , the first moyement of the electrometer resenting the discharge in the cloud , the total resultant displacement being the effect of the whole discharge from the upper part of the cloud to earth .
The of field recorded in observations Nos. and 7 for distances of and kilom .
each took place in two steps , both positive ; in observation ( 1 ) for a distance of kilon ) .
it consisted of a negative change of 500 volts per metre , followed by a positive change of 1500 , leaving a positive balance of 1000 volts per metre .
The results obtained in the storm of August 12 , 1915 , and represented in fig. 4 , show much less regularity .
Yet , while the points representing do not here all lie approximately on one curve , they appear to converge , as the distance is diminished , towards zero for a distance of about kilom .
This is the result to be expected if the discharges were all from a height of about 7 kilom .
, while the quantity discharged by the different flashes varied between 10 and 50 coulombs .
The observations are seen to be practically all contained between the two curves I and III , which have been calculated for and coulombs , the in each case being 7 kilom .
The mean of these vahues of is practically identical with that found for the discharges of the storm of August 15\mdash ; about 30 coulombs .
Curve II represents the case coulotnbs , the height being as before , 7 kilom .
The values deduced for the heights of the upper ends of the lightning discharges are surprisingly high ; indeed , the curve which best fits the observations of August 11 1915 , is obtained on the assumption that the .
came from a height of 15 kilom.\mdash ; considerably above the lower limit of the stratosphere .
It would be premature to conclude that the discharges really came from heights above 10 kilom .
Errors of observation or variations in the acter of the discharges may have occurred in a sufficiently systematic way to increase the values of for the greater distance aIId to diminish them for the smaller , and so lead to an over-estimate of the There is one factor in the problem which has thus far in the present paper been ignored\mdash ; conduction in the upper } ) here .
If we were to assume the atmosphere above a certain height to be a good conductor , we should have to consider not merely one image ( replacing the induced charge on the ground ) but an train of images of the discharge .
It is easily seen that the chan ge produced in the potential ooradient by a discharge to the earth would be thereby increased for the greater and diminished for the smaller distances , thus causin , over-estimate of the heights .
But if the lower limit of the conducting strata were at a height amounting to even a very small number of times that of the upper limit of the lightning discharges , the effect would Magnitude of Electric Discharges in Lightning be relatively very small except at distanoes greater than the height of the conducting layer .
It is unlikely that the requisite high conductivity could under normal conditions extend sufficiently low in the atmosphere to be an important factor in the problem .
There is , however , the possibility that the electric force produced in the atmosphere at no very great height by a lightning discharge below it might exceed that required to cause ionisation by collisions .
A lightning flash might thus be accompanied by a high level discharge extendingas a sheet ( possibly visible as sheet htning ) throughout the whole region in which the electric force and the pressure lay within the proper limits .
Even , however , at a height of 40 kilom .
the pressure is still nearly .
of mercury , and the maximum change of electric field at this height , due to a htning discharge comparable with those of which measurements have been made ( having for example an electric moment of electrostatic units ) , would only amount to 1 or 2 volts per centimetre .
Such discharges would thus probably be confined to somewhat higher levels than 40 kilonL ; they would then affect but little the change of field at the earth 's surface resulting from lightning flashes except at comparatively great distances .
Little need be said about the observations in the storms other than those of August 12 and 15 , 1915 , as these were the only ones in which any considerable number of measurements of the distances were made ; those of the previous year especially , however , to show that it is by no means true of all storms that the prevailing direction of the electric currents in the lightning discharges is upwards .
The values found for the quantity of electricity discharged in flashes are not much in excess of Schuster 's estimate of 10 coulombs to which reference was made at the inning of this paper .
His conclusion , that the balance in the interchange of electric charges between the atmosphere and the earth is unlikely to be influenced to any important degree by lightning , is not substantially affected by substituting 30 for 10 coulombs .
Perhaps the most instructive way of stating the matter is in terms of the interchange over the whole surface of the globe .
The total current flowing from the atmosphere to the earth a result of the normal potential gradient and atmospheric ionisation ( if we may take the results of observations at comparatively few points as giving a fair average for the whole surface ) is , as Simpson*has pointed out , of the order of 1000 amperes .
Thus about yhtning flashes , each carrying a charge of 33 coulombs from the 'Nature , ' December 12 , 1912 .
VOL. XCII.\mdash ; A. 2 Prof. J. C. McLennan .
On the Ionisation atmosphere to the earth , would be required every second to neutralise the total conduction current .
The whole resultant effect of a thunderstorm in increasing or diminishing the atmospheric may possibly be comparatively small , the lightning discharges neutralising almost completely the currents due to precipitation .
It would be interesting to have measurements of both the htning discharges and the charges brought down by precipitation for the same storm .
I have to thank Prof. Newall for advice on many points in all stages of the work .
I should like also to acknowledge the help I have received from Mr , Stanley , who has constructed the greater part of the apparatus .
To Mr. Crow I am indebted for help in the construction of various forms of capillary electrometer ; these were made and tested at the Cavendish Laboratory .
On the of Magnes other on their Absorption By Prof. J. C. McLENNAN , F.R.S. , University of Toronto .
( Received July 17 , 1916 .
) [ PLATES 7 AND 8 .
] 1 .
Introduction .
In a paper recently published by the writer , the single-line spectrum of magnesium , experiments were described in which it was found that when magnesium vapour in a vacuum was bombarded by electrons it was possible if the electrons possessed the requisite amount of kinetic energy to cause the vapour to emit a radiation consisting of the single spectral line .
At the time these experiments were made and the paper was written it was not known by the author whether this line was the first member of the series whose frequencies are given by or of the series * McLennam , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 92 , p. 305 ( 1916 ) .
In the symbolic equation frequencies are given by , where is Rydberg 's number , has a fixed value either integral or one of the numbers , etc. , and has successire integral values , each one giving the frequency of a member of the

