]\gt ; XXTII .
On the of tloe Numberof Electrostatic Units the Electromagnetic Unit of Electricity .
J. J. THOMSON , M.A. , Fellow and Lecturer , College , Cambridge .
by Lord , F.R.S. Received June 19 , \mdash ; Read June 21 , 1888 .
THE values which various physicists have found for " " the number of electrostatic units in the electromagnetic unit of electricity , differ so widely from each other that it seems important that additional experiments should be made in order to help to determine the value of this important constant .
Six determinations of " " \ldquo ; have been published .
The first determination was made by WEBER , who measured the capacity of a condenser , both electrostatically and electromagnetically .
HOCKIN and Professors AYRTON and PERRY have also determined " " \ldquo ; in this way .
MAXWELL determined it by balancing the electrostatic attraction between two discs maintained at different potentials against the repulsion between electric currents circulating at the back of the discs , the currents being derived from the battery which maintained the discs at different potentials .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON and Mr. SHIDA have determined it by measuring an electromotive force both rostatically and electromagneticaly .
The following method was employed in this investigation : it is a very slight modification of the method described in S776 of MAXWELL'S 'Electricity and Magnetism .
' In a bridge , A , with the galvanometer at , and the battery between A and , the circuit is not closed , but the points and are connected with two poles , and , of a commutator , between which a travelling piece , , moves backwards and forwards ; is connected with one plate of a condenser , the other plate of which is connected with D. Thus when is in contact with , the condenser will be charged , and until it is fully charged , electricity will flow into it from the battery ; this will produce a momentary current through the various arms of the bridge .
When the moving piece is in contact with , the two plates of the condenser are connected , and the condenser will discharge itself through , and as the resistance of is infinitesimal in comparison with the resistance of any other circuit , the discharge of the condenser will not send an appreciable amount of electricity through the galvanometer .
Thus , if we make the moving piece oscillate quickly from to , there will , owing to the flow of electricity to the condenser , be a succession of momentary currents through the galvanometer .
The resistances are so adjusted that the deflection of the galvanometer produced by these momentary currents is balanced by the deflection due to the steady current through the galvanometer , and the resultant deflection is zero .
When this is the case there is a relation between the capacity of the condenser , the number of times the condenser is charged and discharged per second , and the resistances in the various arms of the bridge .
As the investigation of this relation given in MAXWELL'S ' Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism ' is only an approximation , it may be worth while to give here an exact investigation of the relation between the capacity of the condenser and the resistances in the arms of the bridge ; though we shall find that when the resistances have the values which they had in the present investigation , MAXWELL'S formula is very nearly correct .
This relation will enable us to calculate the electromagnetic measure of the capacity of the condenser .
Let be the current in A then the currents in A A The resistances of are so small in comparison with the other resistances that they may be neglected .
UNITS IN THE ELECTROMAGNETIC UNIT OF ELECTRICITY .
The Dissipation Function The Potential Energy where is the capacity of the condenser .
Thus if be the electromotive force of the battery , we have , neglecting the selfinduction of the resistance coils in the circuit , or To solve these equations , assume where is ured from the instant when the moving piece first touches S. Substituting we get therefore UDCCCLXXX1TT .
But is the quantity of electricity that flows through the galvanometer whilst the condenser is being charged .
If the condenser is charged and discharged times in a second , the quantity of electricity which flows through the galvanometer in one second is , and if this is to balance the steady current , we must have or or Now in the actual experiment the resistances had about the following values :\mdash ; 1,200 B.A. units .
, , So that in this case the formula is correct to within per cent. , and it is the one we shall use to calculate the electromagnetic measure of the capacity of the condenser .
With these values of the resistances we find that is greater than 5000 , thus the time constant of the system is very small compared with the time during which the plates of the condenser are connected together , so the condenser is completely discharged each time .
The electrostatic measure of the capacity must be calculated from the geometrical constants of the condenser .
It was necessary to use a guard ring in order to simplify the calculation , and to avoid the influence , of the irregular distribution of electricity near the edges of the condenser , but as a condenser with a guard ring could not be worked by the commutator , the capacity of the guard ring condenser had to be compared experimentally with that of a condenser without a ring which could be worked by the commutator .
The investigation thus divides itself naturally into three parts:\mdash ; First , the theoretical calculation of the electrostatic capacity of the guard ring condenser .
For this purpose it was necessary to determine the geometrical constants of the guard ring condenser .
INITS IN THE ELECTROMAGNETIC UNIT OF ELECTRICITY .
Secondly , the comparison of the capacity of this ring condenser with of a condenser without a guard ring .
Thirdly , the determination by the method just described of the etic measure of the capacity of the condenser without a guard I shall describe these parts separately .
PART I. The of the electrostatic pacity of the ring condenser .
The condenser , which was designed by Lord RAYLEIGH , is represented in section in fig. 2 , and in plan in fig. 3 .
BH is a thick ebonite board placed in an pproximately h position , in this board two concentric circular grooves are cut .
A cylindrical ring , whose external diameter is about 23 centims. , and whose height is about 10 centims. , fits into the smaller of these grooves .
Three pieces of ebonite carefully ground down to the sa1ne thickness ( about 3 centims are placed at equal intervals on the top of this ring .
On these the brass cylinder FG is placed ; this cylinder is of exactly the same diameter as the cylindrical ring , and is about 60 centims. long .
The cylinders , GF and , are placed so that their axes are coincident ; this is tested by placing a straight-edge against the sides of the cylinder .
On the top of this cylinder three pieces of ebonite are placed , and upon top of these a cylindricnl ring , similar to the one at the botto1n ; another brass cylindel , A ) in three pieces , two rings similar in dimensions to the rings H middle piece of the same length as the cylinder FG is then fitted the other cylinders , the bottom ring fitting into the outer groove in the ebonite board ; the internal diameter of this cylinder is about 25 centims. The distance betw even the cylinders at the top is tested by observing how far a whose vertical clng]e is very small , sinks down between the cylinders .
When the system is ) crly adjusted , the variation in the distance is only a small percentage of its value .
7 ] 2 J. OMSON ON THE OF ECTROSTATIC The dimensions of this condenser were ascertained in the following length of the cylinder was measured by beam compasses , and the diameters of the inner and outer cylinders by callipers ; the difference of these readings was not , however , taken as the distance between the cylinders , fur though the error made in determining the diameter of either cylinder may be a small fraction of either diameter , yet since the diameters are nearly equal , it may not be a small fraction of their difference .
The distance between the cylinders was determined by fastening the middle pieces of the two cylinders down to a flat board by a thin layer of shellac , and then filling the space between them with water which had been boiled a few hours before the experiment so as to be in a condition to absorb any air-bubbles that might be formed .
The quantity of water required to fill this space was carefully weighed .
This gives the volume of the water , and knowing the length of the cylinder and the diameter of one of them , the difference of the diameters can be calculated .
The results of these measurements LENGTH of cylinder , measured by beam compasses .
60.97 60.965 60.97 Mean centims. INTERNAL diameter of outer cylinder , measured by callipers .
9.986 9.989 9.992 Mean inches , or centims. EXTERNAL diameter of inner cylinder , measured by caJlipers .
9.255 9.250 Mean inches , or centims. of water required to fill the space between the cylinders .
grammes at C. 4404 .
, Mean grammes .
tiNITS THE ELECTRO ETIC UNIT OF ELECTRICiTY .
Since the greatest difference in temperature does not affect the result by one part in a thousand , the correction for temperature is neglected .
We find from these numbers that the distance between the cylinders is 941 centim. When the distance between the cylinders was measured by hair dividers , the least distance was found to be 826 centim. , the greatest centim. , giving centim. as the distance between the axes of the cylinders .
Since the axes of the cylinders are not quite coincident , we cannot calculate the capacity by the ordinary formula .
We proceed to investigate a formula which will hold in this case .
Let the figure represent a section of the cylinders by a plane perpendicular to their axes .
Let be the centre of the section of the cylinder the centre of the section of B. Let Let and be inverse points with respect to both circles , so that OP .
OT .
Then if , when are the distances of a point from respectively , will satisfy LAPLACE'S equation and will be constant over both cylinders .
Thus will be the potential of the electrical distribution , and by comparison with the ordinary form for the potential of an electrified cylinder we see that will be the quantity of electricity per unit length upon either cylinder .
Let the outer cylinder be connected with the earth so that its potential is , and let the potential of the inner cylinder be V. Then we have therefore but is the quantity of electricity per unit length upon either cylinder , and since the capacity is the quantity of electricity divided by the difference of potential , the capacity of the two cylinders where is the length of either cylinder .
Let OO ' then thel.efore similarly Since we have therefore or Solving we find that approximately , supposing that as in our condenser is small .
therefore so that the oapacity of the condenser approximately .
UNITS IN THE ELECTROMAGNETIC UNIT OF Substituting the values of and given above we find and the electrostatic measure of the capacity of the condenser is consequently PART II .
The of the capacity of this condense ?
rith of without a ring .
As condenser could not be worked by a commutator on account of the guard ring , it was necessary to compare its capacity with the capacity of a condenser without a guard ring .
At first it was intended to compare the guard condenser with one of considerably greater capacity .
Such a condenser was constructed , having a number of brass discs separated by thin pieces of shellac , the alternate discs being electrically connected , a weight was placed upon the disc at the top to keep the system steady ; and the system was placed in a vessel formed putting a bell-jar on a surface plate .
There were two openings into this vessel , one of these was connected with a water pump ; the other with the air outside the jar by a series of filled with cotton wool and chloride of calcium , to free the air passing through them from dust and moisture ; air was then pumped through the vessel for bout hours , and both openings were then closed .
The capacity of this condenser was compared with that of the guard ring condenser , by connecting one plate of each condenser to earth , and the other with two points , and , of a battery circuit ; resistance boxes being placed between and Q. A point of the circuit between and was then put to earth , and the resistance in the parts , so adjusted that when the charges of the two condensers were sent simultaneously into an electrometer there was no deflection of the needle , showing that the charges in the two condensers were then equal and opposite .
In this case , the capacities of the condensers , whose plates were connected with and respectively , would bear the same ratio to each other as the resistance in bears to the resistance in P. With the batterypower obtainable , this method however was found not to be sufficiently sensitive , .as the resistance in either of the arms , could be altered by about 75 per cent. without appreciably sturbing the equilibrium of the needle of the electrometer when the charges of the condenser were sent into it .
It was therefore decided to make condenser without a guard ring equal in capacity to the guard ring condenser , and employ the method given in S 229 of MAXWELL'S 'Electricity and to determine when the two condensers were of equal capacity ; this method can be UNITS IN THE ELECTROMAGNETIC UNIT OF ELECTRICITY .
" " are stiff insulated horizontal contact connected to the two poles of the battery .
are insulated springs normally touching and on the under side .
is connected by a wire to the guard ring , to the plate of guard ring condenser , to the sliding condenser .
is an insulated binding screw connected with for the purpose of more conveniently introducing the battery wire .
is a spring connected to is a stiff insulated piece carrying an adjustable point ?
, normally in contact with the upper side of the insulated spring .
From a wire leads the quadrant of the electrometer .
can at any moment be put to earth by a spring key .
The insulated spring has its end between , and , and is normally in contact with neither .
The springs can be simultaneously bent downwards by an insulated plunger .
When this plunger is struck downwards we have the operations effected in a fraction of a second\mdash ; 1o ct with , and insulated .
together .
connected together .
Corlnexion of and broken .
* ' ' The whole switch , binding screws and all , is covered with a brass cover connected to earth and provided with apertures for the connecting wires .
The ebonite legs which carry the pieces are attached to a brass base plate , so that if any leakage occur from , or it shall be to earth and not to the electrometer The connexions are made in the following way .
Let A denote the outer cylinder of the guard ring condenser , the guard ring pieces , and the inner cylinder ; let and denote the plates of the other condenser ; the armature of the Leyden-jar , which is not connected with the earth .
Then A is connected with the earth ; to and to of the key , to of the key , to and to ; and are connected with the earth , and is connected with the electrometer .
Before the plunger is pushed down A is put to earth ; and to to ; to earth .
When the plunger is pushed down , before it reaches and , A is t , o earth .
and , are charged and disconnected .
and have equal and opposite charges .
When the plunger is pushed down a little further , so that comes into contact with and are put to earth , so that the charges on and are free to flow into the electrometer when the plunger goes a little further and strikes If the capacities of the two condensers are equal , the charges on and are equal , and of opposite signs , when ] flow together into the electrometer , their combined effect will be zero .
The distance between the plates of the plate-condenser was altered , until the needle of the electrometer was not deflected when the plunger of the key down .
This method was found to be very sensitive ; if after a balance had been obtained , the capacity of one condenser was altered by 1 per cent. , the quantity of electricity sent to the electrometer was sufficient to drive the spot of light off the scale .
The insulation of the two condensers and the key was tested several times , both electrostatically and by attempting to pass a current through them .
If either condenser was charged , and the key in electrical connexion with it , the loss of charge in five minutes was not quite 2 per cent. , so that the loss in the small time required to push the plunger down is quite negligible .
When the condensers and the key were put in circuit with a battery of 150 DANIELL'S elements , no current could be detected with a galvanometer whose resistance was 11,000 ohms .
PART III .
The determination the gnetic measnre of the capacity of the condenser uithout the guard ring .
This was effected by the method described at the commencement of this paper .
The galvanometer used had a resistance of about 11,000 ohms .
It was insulated by placing it upon pieces of glass coated with paraffin .
The battery consisted of 150 DANlELL'S cells , coupled up with 25 LECLANCHE ' .
The DA NIELL'S cells were put into trays , containing 10 each .
The resistance of the battery was about 2500 ohms .
The insulation of the battery gave a considerable amount of trouble , but the following plan was found successful .
The case containing the traye UNITS IN THE UNIT OF ELECTRICITy .
was placed on glass supports about 2 inches thick covered with a thin layer of paraffin , while each tray was insulated from the case by pieces of ebonite .
The commutator was one which had been previously used by Lord RAYLEIGH , and had been designed by him .
The current from two ' cells passes first through a tuning-fork interruptor , and then through the coils of an ] ectromagnet .
is a strip of brass with a piece of iron attached it .
When there is no current passing through the electromagnet , the elasticity of the rod makes it press against a scre , which is electrically connected with a binding screw : when the current passes through the electromagnet the magnet attracts the iron attached to the rod and brings it into contact with the stop , which is electrically connected with the binding screw S. The letters irldicate the same points in this figure as in fig. 1 .
All the pl ces where contact is made by the .
piece are covered with platinum , and the whole arrangement is fastened down to an ebonite board .
As the current passes intermittently through the coils of the electromagnet , the vibrating piece strikes alternately against the parts and ; when it strikes against the opposite plates of the condenser are connected with the two poles of the battery ; when it strikes against the condenser is discharged ( see fig. 1 ) .
This commutator was found to work extremely well .
When it was in good order the spot of light reflected from the mirror of the galvanometer through which the intermittent current passed never moved off one division of the scale , and the only thing by which the deflection could be distinguished from one due to a steady current was a slight indistinctness in the edge of the image of the spot of light .
The speed of the tuniog-fork interruptor was found baring it with that of the standard fork used by Lord RAyLEIGH in his determination of the ohm in absolute tneasure .
The standard fork vibrates about 128 times per second , the tuningfork used in this investigation vibrates about 32 times per second .
This fork used to drive another of about four times its frequency , and the number of beats per second between this driven fork and Lord RAYLEIGH'S standard fork was counted .
At the temperature of C. there were 12 beats in 20 seconds between the two forks , and the standard fork vibrated more slowly than the other .
The standard fork makes vibrations per second , so that if be.the number of vibrations per second of the fork used to drive the commutator , we have The The observations consisted of two parts .
The capacity of the movable condenser had to be adjusted until it equal to the capacity of the guard ring condenser .
This as ascertained by the method described in Part II .
; and then this adjustable condenser was put in the WIIEATSTONE'S bridge as in fig. 1 , and the resistances of the arms of the bridge adjusted so that the deflection of the galvanometer due to the steady current was just balanced by the deflection due to the tent current arising from the flow of electricity to the condenser when the movable piece was in contact with S. The resistances in the arms A ( fig. 1 ) were kept constant , and the adjustment was effected by altering the resistance in A C. The steady current , when it was not balanced by the current arising from the charging of the condenser , produced a deflection of the dot of light reflected from the mirror of the galvanometer of about 120 scale divisions , and as a fine wire was placed before the lamp of the galvanometer and focussed on the scale , dings could easily be made to quarter of a division .
The following are the results of the observations , and it may be worthy of remark that , as many of the pieces of apparatus used were required for the ordinary work of the laboratory , the whole arrangement had to be taken down and put together again between each determination .
This must have had the effect of getting rid of a good many accidental errors , and taking it into consideration the following numbers seem as near together as could be expected for such complex observations .
The resistances are given in B.A. units .
UNITS IN THE UNIT OF CTRICITY .
RESISTANCES in the various arms of the WHEATSTONE'S bridge , when there was no deflection of the galvanometer .
Resistance in the arm A D. 1 .
R99,666 2 .
899,666 3 .
899,930 4 .
899,700 5 .
S99,700 Resistance Resistance in C. in A C. 99,920 1294 99,920 1285 99,950 1297 99,925 1287 99,925 1297 The mean of these correct to 1/ 10 per cent. is 899 , 700 99,92.5 1292 According to Lord RAYLEIGH'S determination of the ohm the B.A. unit so that from the formula we find that the electromagl ) etic measure of the capacity of the condenser The electrostatic measure of the capacity of the same condenser is So if be the ratio of the electrostatic unity of electricity to the electromagnetic in C.G.S. units .
Some experiments were made with a tuning-fork vibrating 44 times a second ; the results of those were found to agree very closely with those obtained when tuning-fork vibrated per second .
The above experiments were made in the Cavendish Laboratory , Cambridge , and I have much pleasure in nking Lord RAYLEIGH for the very valuable advice which he to me the investigation , as well as for his kindness in designing several of the more important pieces of apparatus .

