174 Note on an Orderly Dissimilarity Inheritance from Different Parts of a Plant .
By W. Bateson , F.R.S. , and Caroline Pellew .
( Received November 9 , 1915 .
) In a recent paper* we described the genetic behaviour of the peculiar , wild-looking , " rogue " peas which appear as the offspring of the cultivated types .
In several respects the phenomena are as yet without parallel .
The genetic constitution of the Fi plants raised by crossing types with rogues was especially remarkable .
These plants , as young seedlings , are intermediate between types and rogues , but , with rare exceptions , as they mature they become normal rogues and behave genetically exactly like pure-bred rogues , producing only rogues as offspring .
We conjectured that a segregation of factors takes place in the soma , such that the type elements are left behind in the base of the Fi plant and are thus excluded from the germ lineage .
The observations here described , though very imperfect , are entirely consistent with the facts related above and with the interpretation offered .
As a season must elapse before the evidence can be materially increased , we venture to make this preliminary record .
In the paper referred to we described certain intermediate forms found in Sutton 's " Early Giant " ( a strain of Gradus ) .
The offspring of these plants shows them to be commonly of two classes : those which throw predominantly rogues and some types , and those which throw predominantly types and a few rogues .
The characters of such intermediate plants often change progressively with growth in the direction of the rogue form , the lower parts being more type-like , the upper parts more rogue-like .
This fact , taken together with the observation that it is only the lowest leaves of the Fi plants which show any influence of the type-parent , suggested that when the offspring consists of a mixture of types and rogues , the types may be derived from the lower pods and the rogues from the upper pods .
To test this possibility we this year saved the upper and lower pods separately from many plants .
The hulk will be sown next spring , but , though the results of autumn sowing are unsatisfactory inasmuch as the plants cannot reach maturity , we have made a preliminary trial with a small quantity of seed .
Three families .
came up which contain the requisite mixture of forms .
Several plants were unfortunately damaged by Noctuid larvae and had to be reckoned as doubtful , but the general result of the experiment is quite clear .
* ' Journ. Genetics , ' vol. 5 , p. 13 ( 1915 ) .
Orderly Dissimilarity in Inheritance .
1 Types .
Dubious .
Rogues .
Family 1 .
Pods at 9th to 11th nodes 2 9 3 Pods at 12th to 15th nodes \#151 ; 23 Family 2 .
Main stem\#151 ; i 9th to 14th nodes 2 5 5 16th to 18th nodes \#151 ; 3 7 Branch from 2nd node\#151 ; 6th to 9th nodes 3 14 \#151 ; 10th to 12th nodes 12 From these six sowings it is evident that the two parents were of the kind which throw a majority of plants lower , that is more rogue-like , than the type , together with a few typical plants which were the produce of the lower pods .
This was the case both in the main stem and in a branch from the base .
In the third family wTe had from the 9tli to 13th nodes 15 types , and 11 which were almost certainly types , though not well characterised , while from 14th to 17th nodes we had 2 types , 5 below type , and 4 which were almost certainly true rogues .
The parent of this family was therefore of the class which throws a large majority of types and a minority of lower forms , and again the lower forms were among the produce of the upper pods .
We have therefore little hesitation in saying that in these plants a segregation takes place in the soma of the plant , such that the type elements are present especially in the lower parts , just as had been surmised from the structure of the Fi generation .
In view of this evidence it is probable that rogues which arise directly from typical plants are derived predominantly from the apical pods .
Material for testing this suggestion will be sown next spring .
VOL. lxxxix.\#151 ; B. Q

