Antagonistic Muscles and Reciprocal .
183 exerts no modifying influence npon her foster-children in so far as can be tested by the examination of a single generation .
( 6 ) It follows , if the above is true , that in case telegony be actually demonstrated , the characteristics of a primary husband which are transmitted to the offspring got by a secondary husband , can only be so transmitted through the ovarian ova of the mother .
Romanes , in his work on 'Darwin and after Darwin , ' vol. 2 , pp. 140\#151 ; 148 , refers to my earliest experiment ; he thereon remarks that rabbits when crossed in the ordinary way never throw intermediate characters , and that the experiment is clearly without significance as far as it bears upon the inheritance of acquired characters .
Mr. Romanes does not give his authority for the statement that rabbits when crossed never throw intermediate characters , and I venture to think he was mistaken in his view ; that they do produce young which are apparently pure bred of the one type or the other , and possibly both , in the same litter is no doubt true , but it is also true that some at any rate of the young got by crossing are of an intermediate character .
An examination of the litters T got by crossing a Dutch buck with Belgian Hare does confirms this view .
" Antagonistic Muscles and Reciprocal Innervation .
Fourth Note .
" By 0 .
S. Sherrington .
M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , University College , Liverpool , and E. H. Hearing , M.D. ( Prague ) .
Received August Read November 18 , 1897 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , Liverpool .
) The object of the present communication is to report to the Society further on the occurrence in so-called " voluntary " muscles of inhibition as well as of contraction , as result of excitation of the cortex cerebri .
We have obtained by excitation of the cerebral cortex some remarkable instances of what one of us has described* under the name of " reciprocal innervation , " that is , a species of co-ordinate innervation in which the relaxation of one set of a co-ordinated complexes of muscle-groups occurs as accompaniment of the active contraction of another set .
The experiments , the subject of the present communication , have been carried out in the monkey ( Macacus cynocephalus ) and the cat .
The appropriate region of the cortex cerebri has been freely exposed after removal of part of the cranium and subsequent * 1 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. GO .
Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
slitting and turning aside of the dura matter .
The cortex has then been stimulated by rapidly repeated induction shocks , obtained by the Du Bois inductorium .
The Helmholtz equaliser has always been employed .
The intensity of the faradic currents used has been usually such as to be barely perceptible when the platinum electrodes were applied to the tongue-tip .
The anesthetics used have been either ether alone or ether mixed with chloroform in equal volumes .
The degree of narcotisation forms an important condition for the prosecution of the observations .
When the narcosis is too profound the results to be recorded are much less obvious than when the narcosis is less deep .
It is best , starting with the animal in a condition of deep etherisation , to allow that condition gradually to diminish .
As this is done it almost constantly happens that at a certain stage of anaesthesia the limbs instead of hanging slack and flaccid assume and maintain a position of flexion at certain joints , notably at elbow and hip .
This condition of tonic contraction having been assumed , the narcosis is , as far as possible , kept at that particular grade of intensity .
The area of cortex cerebri previously ascertained to produce under faradisation extension of the elbow-joint or hip-joint is then excited . .
For clearness of description we will suppose that the left hemisphere is excited , and that , therefore , the limb affected is the right .
The result of excitation of the appropriate focus in the cortex , that presiding over extension of the elbow , is an immediate relaxation of the biceps , with active contraction of the triceps .
As regards the condition of the biceps , the relaxation is usually so striking that merely to place the finger on it is enough to convince the observer that the muscle relaxes .
The following is , however , a good mode of studying the phenomenon : In a monkey with strongly developed musculature the forearm , maintained by the above-mentioned steady tonic flexion at .
an angle of somewhat less than 90 ' with the upper arm , is lightly supported by the one hand of the observer , while with the finger and thumb of the other the belly of the contracted biceps is felt through the thin skin of the upper arm .
On exciting the cortex the contracted mass becomes suddenly soft\#151 ; as it were melting under the observer 's touch .
At the same time the observer 's hand supporting the animal 's forearm tends to be pushed down with a force unmistakably greater than that which the mere weight of the limb would exert .
If the triceps itself be felt at this time it is easy to perceive that it enters contraction , becoming increasingly hai 'd and tense , even when its points of attachment are allowed to approximate , and the passive tensile strain in it should diminish .
If the limb be left unsupported the movement is one of simple extension at the elbow-joint .
On discontinuing the excitation of the cortex the forearm usually immediately , or almost immediately , returns to its Antagonistic Muscles and Reciprocal Innervation .
185 previous posture of flexion , which is again as before steadily main-tained .
Conversely , when , as not unfrequently occurs in conditions of narcosis resembling that above referred to , the arm has assumed a posture of extension , and this is tonic and maintained , the opportunity is taken to excite the appropriate focus in the cortex , previously ascertained , for flexion of forearm or upper arm .
Triceps is then found to relax , and the biceps at the same time enters into active contraction .
If the biceps be hindered from actually moving the arm , the prominence at the back of the upper arm due to the contracted triceps is seen simply to sink down and become flattened .
When examined by palpation the muscle is felt to become more or less suddenly soft , and the biceps at the same time to become tenser than before .
The movement of the limb , when allowed to proceed unhindered , is flexion with some supination .
It is noteworthy that in this experiment not every part of the large triceps mass becomes relaxed ; a part of the muscle which extends from humerus to the scapula does not in this experiment relax with the rest of the muscle .
This part , if the scapula be fixed , acts as a retractor of the upper arm , and is not necessarily an antagonist of the flexors of the elbow .
This part of the triceps we observed sometimes enter active contraction at the same time as the flexors of the elbow .
It should be remarked that under use of currents of moderate intensity we find that not from one and the same spot in the cortex can relaxation and contraction of a given muscle be evoked at different times , but that the twro effects are to be found at different , sometimes widely separate , points of the cortex , and are there found regularly .
We have obtained analogous results in the muscles acting at the hip-joint .
When in the narcotised anithal the hip-joint is being maintained in flexion , the thighs being drawn up on the trunk , excitation of the region of the cortex previously ascertained when the limbs hang slack to evoke extension of the hip , produces relaxation of the flexors of the hip and at the same time active contraction of the extensors of the thigh .
We examined particularly the psoas-iliacus , and the tensor fasciaa femoris , also the short and long adductor muscles .
Each of these was found to relax under appropriate cortical excitation .
If the knee were held by the observer it was found at the time of relaxation of the flexors of the hip to be forced downward by active extension of the hip .
Similarly with other groups of antagonistic muscles both those of the small apical joints of the limb , .
, flexors and extensors of the digits , and those of the large proximal joints , e.g. , adductors and abductors of the shoulder .
At these also instances of recipi'ocal innervation were obtained .
That a part of the triceps brachii ( that retracting the upper arm ) VOL. LXII .
p 18G AntagonisticJll'u solos and Recipvocol .
should actively contract exactly when another part ( that extending the elbow ) becomes relaxed is exactly comparable with a phenomenon which has been described by one of us in treating of spinal reflexes , both in the triceps itself and in the quadriceps femoris .
And we have similarly seen in the quadriceps femoris , on exciting the cortical region yielding extension of the hip , a relaxation of a part of the quadriceps ( a part which flexes the hip ) with contraction of another part ( which extends the knee ) .
We hope , in a longer communication , in which the literature can be dealt with , to give a more detailed account of other instances of co-ordination , in which inhibition of the contraction of the so-called voluntary muscles makes its appearance in result of excitation of the cortex cerebri .
The examples cited in the present Note are evidently intimately related to those to which attention has been already called iu Second* and Third Notesf on the co-ordination of antagonistic muscles already presented to the Society .
Addendum .
Since the above was written , one of us ( C. S. S. ) has had opportunity to perform further experiments both on the monkey and the cat , and has carried out excitation of the fibres of the internal capsule , as well as excitation of the cortex cerebri .
Knowledge is at present completely vague as to which of the many elements in the cortex constitutes the locus of genesis of the reaction obtained by electrical stimuli applied from the cerebral surface .
It is therefore conceivable that the elements of the pyramidal tract are only mediately excited by moderate faradisation of the cortex .
If so , inhibitory effects produced by excitation of the cortex might likely enough not occur under direct excitation of the cut fibres of the capsula interna .
As a matter of fact , however , the results obtained from the internal capsule have been as striking as those obtained from the cortex itself .
From separate points of the cross-section of the capsula , relaxation of various muscles has been evoked .
Among the muscles , inhibition of which has been directly observed , are supinator longus , and biceps bracliii , the triceps , the deltoid , the extensor cruris , the hamstring group , the flexor muscles of the ankle joint , and the sternomastoid .
The spots in the cross-section of the capsula which have yielded the inhibitions are constant , that is , the position of each when observed has remained constant throughout the experiment .
The area of the capsular ci'oss-section at which the inhibition of the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 .
Media for the Cultivation of the Bacillus of Tubercle .
187 activity of , eaj .
, the triceps , muscle can be evoked is separate from ( that is to say not the same as ) that area whence excitation evokes contraction of the triceps ( or of that part of the triceps , inhibition of which is now referred to ) .
On the other hand , the area of the section of the internal capsule , whence inhibition of the muscle is elicited , corresponds with the area whence contraction of its antagonistic muscles can be evoked .
Yet synchronous contraction of such , pairs of muscles as gastrocnemius and peroneus longus is obtainable from the cortex .
The observations make it clear that 11 reciprocal " in antagonistic muscles is obtainable by excitation of the fibres of the internal capsule .
It is probable , therefore , that the inhibition elicit-able from the cortex cerebri is not due to an interaction of cortical neurons one with another .
The variety of nervous reaction in which I have been able to establish existence of the reciprocal form of muscular co-ordination is now pretty extensive .
In some the condition described in the previous ( 3rd ) Note ( the state shown to ensue upon removal of the cerebrum , and in that Note spoken of as " decerebrate rigidity " ) was conducive to the result ; in others the cerebrum was of course not removed .
The reactions examined for the phenomenon with positive result include those initiated by excitation of ( 1 ) the skin and skin nerves ( with " decerebrate rigidity " ) , ( 2 ) the muscles and afferent nerves of muscle ( with " decerebrate rigidity " ) , ( 3 ) the dorsal ( posterior ) columns of the cord ( with u decerebrate rigidity ( 4 ) of the cerebellum ( with \lt ; ldecerebrate rigidity ' " ) , ( 5 ) of the crusts , cerebri ( with " decerebrate rigidity " ) , ( 6 ) of the internal capsule , ( 7 ) of the optic radiations , ( 8 ) of the Rolandic cortex , ( 9 ) of the occipital ( visual ) cortex .
0 .
S. S. , November 3 , 1897 , : " On certain Media for the Cultivation of the Bacillus of Tubercle."* By Arthur Ransom , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 13 , \#151 ; Read November 25 , 1897 .
In May , 1894 , a communication was made to the Society by Professor Delepine and myself , " On the Influence of certain Natural Agents on the Virulence of the Tubercle-Bacillns .
" * By permission of the Royal College of Physicians , this research , which forms a portion of the Weber-Parkes prise essay , is communicated to the Royal Society before publication .
The cost of the inquiry is defrayed by the Thrustim prize , presented to the author this year by Gronville and Caius College , Cambridge .
p 2

