II .
" Researches on the Action of certain parts of the Solar Spectrum upon the Iris .
" By E. BROWN SEQUARD , M.D. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received July 10 , 1856 .
In 1847 I discovered that light has the power of acting directly upon the iris so as to produce there a muscular contraction , manifesting itself by the constriction of the pupil .
If an eye taken out from the orbit is alternately exposed to light and darkness , we find that the pupil becomes alternately constricted and dilated* .
It was interesting to know whether the stimulation of the muscular fibres of the iris is produced by the chemical power of light or not .
I had already found , in 1847 , that only the parts of light which seem to have but very little chemical action , have the power of exciting contractions in the iris .
But my experiments having been made with light passing through coloured glasses , were not decisive .
Lately I have performed many other experiments in making use of light decomposed by the prism .
In one case , with the assistance of Messrs. Dubosc and Nachet , jun .
, I experimented with electric light , and in the other cases I made use of direct solar light .
In all these cases the same results have been obtained .
I uniformly found that the yellow part of the spectrum acted as well as undecomposed light , and that the other parts of the spectrum had either no action at all , or only a very slight one .
The parts of the green and orange adjoining the yellow had a decided but very slow action .
The two extremities of the spectrum , and the dark places in their neighbourhood , not only had no constrictive action upon the pupil , but did not prevent it from dilating , and the dilatation seemed to take place as quickly as when the eye was put in complete darkness .
From these experiments it appears that the power possessed by light , of stimulating the circular fibres of the iris , belongs not to its chemical or to its calorific parts , but to its illuminating elements .
It seems therefore that it is not by a chemical action , but by a peculiar dynamical influence that light produces contraction of the iris .
The power of the iris to contract when stimulated by light lasts extremely long , particularly in certain animals .
In the eel I have found the muscular irritability of the iris , in one case , lasting sixteen days , during the last winter , in eyes taken out from the orbit .
This is an interesting fact , not only on account of the long duration of vitality in the iris , but on account of the conclusion that we are entitled to draw from it , that muscular fibres may be stimulated without the intervention of nerves .
In the iris of the eel the nervefibres are found very much altered a few days after the extirpation of the eye from the orbit , and they are almost destroyed twelve or fifteen days after this extirpation , i. e. at a time where muscular irritability is sometimes still existing ,

