]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS THE ROYAL THE On the Forms of Lquipotcntial Curves and Surfaces and on Lines of Flow.2 By W. G. , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in King 's College , London .
Received February When portion of a hich tho poIes of battery is in size , the of nit is ished { a current the any in the cross secliou of of the ire corrcrease in the rrent , it is leiLr that there is uo part of the hich some portiou of the ctllre]lt does flow from the one pole to the other ; and the outer of such a ire ill be a line of flow .
A liue of is a line drawn in a ctor evel of it the direction of the point .
A ion of the cfor completely ellclosed by lines of may be rmed a of If a portion of the wire be beaten out disk , or if a sheet of metnl or tinfoil be employed , it still be true that is no of it to ) the lines of do not exteJl( , althongh the Ottlt o rrunt will be wenk at of the disk ttre far ed from the shortest line of If instcad of or tho cuit consist of cross section is .
in tho liqnid , the lines of flo fhc ; reAse in the ross sootion of } the of Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of The lines flow verge from the electrodes or points where the current enters and leaves the liquid , lie closer and closer together as they lie arer to the shortest line of flow i0lnmg the The of the conductor , whether it be a disk or aliquid , may be regardod as being made up of tubes of flow , or of bundles of lines of flow each bube ending in conical points filling up the solid angle at the electrodes , and conveying a given quantity of electricity from one battery-electrode to the other .
These tubes increass in diameter at points further and further from the electrodes ; and the of ctlrrent at a given point .
the quantity of current flowing through a perpe1ldicular section of unit Jrea ) will be inversely as cross section of the tube of flow through that point .
In passing from one electrode to the along line of flow there will be a gradual fall of , and the lines of flow will be cut at right by surfaces in which the potential is the same for every point of the same surface .
On ching two wires to a nometer , and placin their free ends on the same equipotential surface , no current will flow the galvanometer .
If , then , two electrodes in connexion the two poles of a battery be fixed in contact with two points of a disk of liufoil , or ith points in a conducting liquid , and two other electrodes be attached to delicate galvanometer , by keeping one of these fixed and tracing with the may determine the forms of or surfaces in the of tinfoil or in the liquid by joiniug all the posihons the tracing-pole which give no current through the galvanometer .
It will be convenient to the which are connected with the tery the balter -electrodQ , and those colulected with the galvanothe galvanometer-electrodes .
By means of the tracing-electrode points of the same as the fixed -electrode may be marked on the tinfoil ; the curve ng thom ill be an equipo- curve .
imental 1 About years ago , at the suggestion of Mr. J. T. Bottomley , the of cs on sheets of linfoilvs first set as an exercise for our more students in the Laboratory .
I have been assisted in the ) , in by Messrs. Jacob , Coc.hrane , , and Harrison , studcnts in the Physicnl Laboratory of 's College .
the , one electrode of 's reflecting } 1lleter attached to sm or ) , iixed in contact with or 1 assing through the other ecfrode attached to a bmall tube of the came ) as ith the end of which cont,.ct could .
made at ttny point of the .
lu he ceulre Eq uipotenti Curves and Surfaces , Sc. of this small tube a needle held by a spring ; when the required point was foumd , by pressing down the spring a hole could be made in the tinfoil , thus marlring the position of the tracing-electrode .
The best form of contact is probably by means of needle-points , on which shoulders of metal 2 or 3 millims. in diameter are soldersd , and hich are pressed tight on the tinfoil .
By placing a sheet of paper underneath the tinfoil disk the forms of equipotential curves are at once pricked out , { may { ards be illustration in lectures the sheet of tinfoil may be placed in front of a , and the forms of curves lines of flow may be thrown on a screen .
If the be traced on a circular disk of the size of or smaller han the -lens , the whole series of equipotential curves on it may be upon the screen at the same time .
Case 1 .
Plate 1 .
fig. 1 represents a sheet of millims. , in hich A and , the battery-poles , are 126 nlillims .
pnrt ; and the line AB is ) early parallel to a side , and passes through the centre of the square ; the point is equidisfallt from the poles .
Not far from the centre of the sheet , and in the smaller curves angle yarying from to about the electrodes , ]lese cnrves coincide circles ; and in other parts of the curves , lvhen the influence of the edge is taken into aocomlt , by supposing the ibution due to charges in the positions of the electric images , as be afterwiLrds exphined , the agreement ith the curves as by theory is remarkably exact .
lf large sheet of tinfoil be taken , and the -electrodes be placed far alvJy from the edge of the sheet , then at all points not near the edge of the shect tho forms of the equipotential cm ] es will be ery nearly the same as iu a sheet of infinite extent .
In all such ( as ill be afterwards ) the equipotential curves , heu there are only two battery-electrodes in connexion the sheet , ure circles having their centres on the straight line passing through the two electrodes ; and the lines of iiow arcs of circles which the poles . .
Plate 2 .
fig. 2 represents a circulal ' sheet of tinfoil , 210 millims. diameter , the odes on the circumference , and at a distance lrom one other equal to the radius .
The electrodcs were small as closely as possible to the of the disk .
ences of potential between two cquipotential lrves been measured by the deflections of the needle of the nometer .
ions n ere as :\mdash ; Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of From to to It will be seen that the fall of from to is greater than the fall of potential from to may arise from a difference in the resistances of t , he contacts with the two battery-electrodes .
The radii of the circles are 28 , 56 , 290 , 82 , 28 , and 12 millims. , be- ginning from the point the distances between them , sured along the line ioining the electrodes , are 20 , 13 , 15 , 19 , 15 , 10 , and 12 millims. distances 13 , 15 , 19 , 15 , 10 correspond to differences of potential ; and hence the resistances of the portions of the disk between these consecutive equipotential curves are equal to one another .
In this there considerable resistance between the binding-screw and the tinfoil disk at the point contact ; but this does not alter the forms of the equipotential curves .
Case 3 .
Plate 2 .
fig. 3 represents a large sheet of tinfoil 18 inches square , with one electrode in the centre , by which the current enters the sheet , and four similar electrodes at four corners of a square , each being 3 inches from the electrode , by which the currents leave the sheet .
The ectrodes were needJes , with shoulders of millims. in diameter soldered on them .
The four negative electrodcs may be united together beneath the on which the tinfoil is placed , by strips of copper screwed to the electrodes by a nut on needle .
On the needles which pass rough the tinfoil are shoulders which come down tight on the tinfoil so as to make good contact .
these curves two cells Grove were used ; and l difference of ) between two successive curves causes a deflection of 50 isions of the scale .
The resistances of the portions of this disk even successive ) ourves are equal to one nother .
Case 4 .
The curves in Plate 2 .
fig. 4 , ithin the octant BAH , equipotential curves , when one positi } electrode A is at the corner of a sheet of tiufoil which AH nlld AM the cdges , ftnd one negative electrode at a distance of from , the line AB bisecting the angle between the two edges .
rfhe lrves between the lines AB and AM have not been drawn in the figure .
The potential at any point in this sheet is that due to the electrodes , together ith the three images of formed by rectangular cres ; itnd hence the curves should be the snme in case .
On comparing the curves will be seen at that is the case .
The , with two exceptions , are drawn at distallccs corresponding to equal differences of potelltial ; so , omitting the interpolated cnrves , the of tho porbions of tho sheet between consecutive are to one This figurc also ) rescnts the eqnipotenlial curves for squnre shcct , of hirh AB and are he ilh oue Equipotential Cves and cQlrfaces , Sc. .5 electrode negntive electrodes and on the ot the sheet .
We may also the case with one positive electrodc at the ccntr and four tive electrodes at the corners of as to sets , each set .
of one positive one on side of it , { equal nces { long the same erht line a sheet either uulimited or limited by th striLight line .
Case 5 .
The curves for this cment of electrodes ] Plnte 1 .
fig. 5 ; the distance from the to trode is millims. , or 3 ches , as in Cases 3 , the electrodes ) the centre of a 1 ery laro'eb sheet of tinfoil .
the curve cuts the axis at distnnce of 54 miJl i ) ) the centre , distances of 1 millim. on either side , the the electrodcs to the several points on the differ by the quantities in the Table .
The curve between those at 53 and 54 millimetres as as possible a distance of millims. the ccntre .
The result of this case that the case of one nnd four electrodes Pl .
fig. 3 we may expect tho curves hich cut at distance of about 54 millims. from the centre to be The fifth from the centre is in the position of the ngular hyperbola , its foci the positions of the tive c itnd find , 011 suriJlg this curve as well as the curve 011 the Side of it , the vertex the curves accurately hyperbolns .
This is true of the corresponding curves in fig. 4 .
The first in fig. 5 were at equal distances of 10 millims. npnrt tho reckoning the centre ; and the differences of for roned from the centre , proportionnl to the numbers iIlcluding the effect due to contnct of the electrode .
Other were afterwards in the ncighbourhood of ] ) osition of gnlar h nnd nround the electrodes .
The shcet of tinfoil in the ) ses sulhricntly ] for Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of the curves in the neighbourhood of the ax to bc to those which could have been traced on a sheet of infmite extent .
The third curve from the negative pole is the rectangular hyperbola , and its vertex divides the distnnce ; so that AO is to AB to AO is equaI to millimetres .
Case 6 .
Plate 2 .
fig. 6 represents the of disk where the current enters at the edge leaves at the centre of the disk .
Around the centre the curves very nearly ellipses of small eccentricity , the focus bein at the centre of the disk .
It is the radius of the disk and the distance from the , the eccentricity is The curve cutting the axis at the point a disbance of millims. , from the centre , has two briLnches cutting oue at right ngles at the point , and each cLltting the edgc of the disk at an angle of , the radius of the disk beiJJg 3illches .
When the fixed galvanometer-electrode is at , it is difficu16 to find succession of points forming a continuous curve ; the tracing-electrode may one time be placed on the bonndnry of the shaded portion of the figure , and at another be placed on the nxis the point ithout causin thy c through the galvanoOn placing the fixed electrode at , the tracing-elecmarks out two straight lines in the neighbourhood of point of the same the point , and each cutting the edge of the disk ngle of at that point .
The inty i this eqnipotentinl is Pxplained , as will be presently ( p. 25 ) , by the that each of the electrodes was rather more than 1 millimetre in meter .
The equipotential curves whioh lic further from the centre cut the edge of the disk at right aJlgles .
To deiermine , the Lines of Flon ) and the otential Snrfaces of lsions .
If two ires s in glnss tubcs , -ith piece of ire the seftled end , be immersed , the other ends cted with the polcs of a ) close approxnnntion to the CttSC of cnrrents point fo nother within ] by metllls of two other { nged behed to a lometer , Ulty trace ont the forJns of equipotential the liqnid .
lf be employed there will be on the trodes ; but ) he ent t making Equipotential ) an Surfaces , Sc. only for short polarization may kept the vanometer-electrodes , ided they not moved from the surfacc .
After few inaly experiments to determine how far the , I definite series of experiments in For the dilufe sulphuric acid , in sulphate opper , in sulphate of zinc , I employed box , 1 foot 8 inches , and inches .
On tho of box piece ; cut the of the of the box , .
piece to carry ] These pieces are cilpablllel to sides of box , so to placc the another ( .
Plate 1 .
fig. S ) .
The tubcs , 11 hich nccur so as to bc line with the to be wheil the rc of the box .
By this means he of tho at once read off on the sides tUld ends of box .
The first the points of 10 centims. the surfnce , the box nearly full In the experiments the curlent was reversed , of the nometer b ] on both sidcs zcro for of elecfrodcs .
The employed ) , the of cell nearly 3 ohms , and tho bout 1 of Daniell 's cell .
The of { hc measured by the form lIclmholtz 's donble ; the of the these expcrimenfs wilS gen rally .
The -electrodes bc up to ccntim .
of the centre of the box .
The of the first to determino tho potcnti , al changes of ance i a dircction paralleI to sidcs tho box .
The battery-electrodes were millims. the end of tho box , .
at a .
of 300 millims. one anofher .
line joining them nxis of coordi , tho other being tho upper edge of one of the ) .
Onc tte } placed at the , tho first , and .
at time in ircct ito sides of box .
The ions n poinf , in Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of The of differences gives the of potelltitd between the equipotential surfaces through positions of the -electrode .
These positions points distances of 10 millims. , along straight line ] to the sides of the box a distance of.50 ] lims .
from the nxis .
The ence b the each of the two deflections to right and left be to be the currPllt duc to ation .
This was very small , the deflections ) the at the middle , and 10 at the eud of the experiments .
vard the experiments , ) there as an in the tions becatlse the current was ou for five minutes .
these results it that with mtary trents and reversing at each , the varitttion in the polarizntion , even in dilute sulphuric acid , be kept very dlmall .
The sudden cballge in the polarization at reduced the dcHection of the vanometer from to The of the deflection recorded is the of more deflections , but these were ] the itme .
To reduce , if ' possible , the effect of pol ] ) ) ttte of copper ( -covcred copper t$t ) in with 4 beyond the forlhc ctrodes .
In the rodes , were of ered wirc , here were 2 ) } ) tho all the electrodes ere imlllGl.sG to wero of 10 nillims .
from he box , so that they ] pnrt .
{ ixed -electrode ; then ou the of the other electrode , it is fonnd .
all posi- tions a ) parallel to the ends of the box , itnd dividin it into Equipotential Curves and Sc. equal pnats , there is no deflectiou ; but at , .
at a of 1 millim. from this plane , there is deflection of 10 divisions of the scale .
Hence the plane which is equidistaut from the electrodes is shown to be an equipotential surface .
This is the surface at which the potential is zero .
Case 7 .
Plate 2 .
fig. 9 represents three sections of three equipotential surfaces , one through the point , another through the poiut ( 80 , 10 ) , and a third through the point , the battery-electrodes being at distances of 10 millims. from the ends of the box and 284 millims. When the battery-electrodes are so near to the ends of the box , the distribution of the electric lrrents , nnd therefore the of the equi- potential surfnces , will not be the as a conductor which is unlimited every direction ; hence in comp ftl'ing these resnlts with theory it is necessnry to take into account the influence of the ends and sides of the box .
measule the distances from each of cnrve to the batteryeleotrodes ftlld to the positions of their electric imnges due to the sides and ellds of the box , for each point the sum of the reciprocals of the distances of the ative electrode and its images from the sum of the reciprocals of the distances of the positive electrode its images , get a series of numbers hich differ little from one nother .
If represent the distances from the positive electrode its images , amd .
represent the distances from ntive electrode and its , then is ery constant for curve .
In .
fig. 9 the negative electrode is so away from every of the curve , that all except one of the images at the distant end of the box have been neglected .
In the case of the curve through the point , the values of for the several points are the ing tnble:\mdash ; The curves are drawn only on one side of the is ; but they are symmetrical about the axis , also , with r to the of zero , Treating the next CUl.ye in the same , the of the first 10 Prof. W. G. on the of point tnken in this curvo , 10 , and tho -electrodes the same point as before , for The mean value of } , all the but one of the more distant These would diminish the ' each point , but by very nearly the same amount , as they are so cYcry point of the curve .
Another curve is dravn on this Plate { hrough ) oint ( .
Theso three curves } ' ] the l , alfcy-poles the samo posifions .
Case 8 .
In a curve see fig. 1 o point ( 120 , 20 ) , tho electrodes a of ends of the box , only into : the dues of for the :\mdash ; In this case all the images except one are cted .
lVhcn the curve approachcs the side the box , as at lattcr , it becomes necessary to ke tho eflcct due to sidc of the box ; the forms of the curves ] altcred .
Case 9 .
In the experiments with sulphate of , the zinc electrocles not immersed to ) in the as in the ) describod , but off and mmersed to a depth of about 3 or 4 ] , in order to mnkc good contnct , the trodes being what slnalIcr than other { just the liquid .
The othel ments were tho same before .
electric{l images into COllnt , as tho battery-electrodes at a of 10 .
from tho ellds of the box .
Takin described , tho lues of for tho selernl :\mdash ; tial Curves and Surfaces , Sc. The highest numbers are the values for points which are nearest to the sids of the box .
The battery-electrodes are 100 millims. , and equally distant from the centre of the box .
The curve is drnwn through the point .
Plate 1 .
fig. 11 allso another curve for sulphate of zinc , where the electrodes only just dip into the liqnid , the battery-electrodes .
as , beiug 100 millims. apalt and lidistant from the centre of the box .
The curYe is through the point ( 170 , lo ] fho 40 points which have been determined experimentally for this curve , the values of are contained in the ving table , ranged in four columns:\mdash ; he last points taken on the are nearer to the side and to the end of the box than to the nearest eJectrode ; hence for these points corrections should be applied depending on the changes of potentinl to the side and end of the box .
It also very clenrly from this selies of values that , by reversing the -curlent each observation , the of the -electrodes may be kept small and nearly constant throughout series of experiments .
aperime with Linear Electrodes .
Case 10 .
The reotangular box was employed to determine the forms of the cylindrical when the electrodes are straight rods throughout the depth of the liquid .
of zinc ) employed for these experiments , and the electrodes were niLted rods .
Plnte 2 .
fig. 12 represents the sections of the equipotenti .
when one battery-electrode is , the centre of the box , and the other at , the middle point of one sidc .
12 Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of These electrodes ectrodes in these not ) in less than 5 millims. of the of the The cves repres the of hi are at of 10 mill isured c a line is to ] lims .
from the The case of a sulph iLtc of copper , the trodeS i the ends of ctcr , has been worked out expel .
; and the urfaces { clrcular cylinders the sides the vessel right allgles .
Mercury was tried for these experiments ; but from its most perfect g-power it very diflicult to determine in it which were precisely of the same nother case ont with trodes in sulphate of ] posive rodc as ) at the middle point of side and t electrodes were symmctrically at the same distance from the positive electrode ; so that the lines joining the to the electrodes vere at to one Ilothcr .
Tbis corr to the case in Plnte 2 .
; and the scctions of { he at points which are not the side of the box the as the or 4 of Plate2 .
iously d ) forms of these curves in the tiJlfoil e , it was very ensy to ltlove -electrode from to nother on the , by use of the curves previously as guides for the electrode .
results ?
the of lectrical D To exalnine the forms of the with a view how ffi the resnlts of } grec are lnted for by the theory of of in a plane in space of three dimensions , take hrst tho a of unlimiled extenlt in every tion , when t are joined to points in the plane , so that there are ) currents at those The ) at ally poinl of tl , plane is to C-A where the point from the -cleetrodes B. the conditiojl for an equicnrve is ) } herc is some This ation i of gle at veen the lines and c1lts the -electrodes in the , which is a point If is , { he and to this .
poiut and of the point is circl diameter is hosc c is on produced .
Equipotential Curves and Surfaces , If refer this circ.le to ates he of from A then its is or If .
\mdash ; or .
\mdash ; , the points )where any equipotentinl curve cnts the The point is the electrical image of regard to each of these circ.les ; for if be the centre of one of the circles , OA .
The lines of cut the equipotential at right angles , or the dius of one of these circles is the to line of flow ; hence it uolid , Book Prop. the lines of flow are of circles passing through the A , the positions of the trodes .
This result be at b.y a method which is also applito the case of mequal rges at in a plane .
Let us the equation to the equipotential curves in the form ( .
Differelltiating and eliminitting got of { cut the cs right anglcs ; hence for a line of Integrating this equation , we get constant , that the lines of flow nre circles passing throngh the positiotis the two electrodes .
Comparing this result ith the curves by experiment in , 1 .
fig. 1 , see that for all parts of the disk hich may be considered fo be beyond the fluence of the edge of the there is a very close agreement veen theory and experiment ; and the of the edge of the disk be such that the cut the of the disk at ight angles .
Whcn the -shcet is llot of extent , but of vory sidernble , the ill still elosc :pproximation to the point , provided electrodes not far from the centre of the shect .
such a Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of sheet under these conditions the porbions of and lines of flow which are not the edges of the sheet will be very nearly circular .
This we have seen to be the case in the experiments on tinfoil ( see Plate 1 .
fig. 1 ) .
When the lines approach near the of the disk , } the electrodes are the , then the form of the equipotential curve is generally altered , because the edge of the disk ill some of he lines of flow of the plane .
1Ve may the lines of iuct from one nother , but as flling up the whole the fl ow disk ; if , then , woe make a section of the along a line of flow we do not alter the distribution of eleolricity on the disk , and so do not alter the forms the equipotelltial .
But in that the two of the disk are entirely separate from one , one of the may be taken ithout causlng ally c aug chau in law of distribution of the curl.ents in the othel .
If , then , cut from an indefinitc bheet a porlion hich.is bounded by of flow , shall not of the ; but , thereby of hall iIlCl.ease the difference of potenlial even the electrodes , the distances veen succesbive cocrespondiug to differences of potential ill be strnight line joining -electrodes is a line of flow ; hence the electrodes arc ou one edge of a shcol which is uulimited in all directions but one , the equipotelltial still of c , ircles thoir ceutres on the , traight edgo of hc disk ; or if a portion of he his cdge and the of a hich passes through the elecfrodes be cut out , the of the es in this portiou be alCS of irclcs ntres on the btraight edge .
The to portion bounded by the of two circles ssing through the two electrodes ; so that on a circular the odes on the circumfercnce , the mdary of the disk ill be lines of { he es hich cut them at ight lglcs ill also be ight line through the electrodes* .
One trodes be the case has out M. Kirchthe ) of the sheet hich are at differ potential , { he rreJlt hich v ould { Iow through those ires , by ) ] the ircuit .
M. l'expc'rience que le cas d'une laire columulliqnant P. deux points dc sa rence avec les d'une ) \ldquo ; irchhoff ubed ) , and its being a good condu uuable to delel'mine its ] ' .
M. adds M. he cabe of a square disk ith one ) oruer and he on a of the square .
These he cases couEquipotential Curves Sc. electrical image of the other vitb regard to these circles .
Ihis has also been to be the case by the experiments ( see Plate 2 .
fig. 2 ) .
It in an infinite plano .
there ba any number of eleotrodes , the equies Rlld lines of ilo may be by the method explained Professor , by ving circIes of equal differences of potenlial arolmd eftch charge , .
point of intersection in such a that for all the tnken the sum of the potentiaIs is constant .
The at iLny 1oint of the plane is here are the distances of the point lrom the cfrodes .
In the case where the currents are equal at the points the is .
Hence for an equipotential curve must .
, or iating and the hich cut these at right gles shall find , as on p. 13 , the equation to a of is of the form constaut , or ctlrrents ilow into and out plane conductiug-sheet several of it , the potential at any point the sheet is here A \amp ; c. proportional to the quantity of ctlrrent into the ttJldE , 1 .
to the iug out the several bat .
In the of lectrodes where there no loss of nrlent from the conducting-sheet , hese currents be ided iuto a series of of equal and opposite culrents , so that there ) ) ill be itll cqual number of positive and terms .
If , then , 1 aper which h been previously worked out ) crimGJlorked out by M. Quincke is to be the ils that fig. ; 3 of one electrode the fbld four ) odes at the fonr coruers of a square the centre of- sheet of tinfoil is so large compared ith the bize of the , that it be of nited extent .
Some other cases of limited sheets , with orralJ t of electrodes so as to he same es , also been ousidered in this papcl .
Since this paper before hc Society , Prof. G. C. has ) en , tho ' for May and Julle 1875 , ount of the ork had been done 011 this subject , in hich hc to an interon the theory of lines of in a plane , by .
W. mith , ublished in the 1roceediugs of the Royal of .
reutise on icity nnd gncti .
, vol. Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of currents the several eleaetrodes all equal , then for an equipotential curve we shall have If the current enters at one point and lcaves by four currents equal to one another , then We an instance of this cnse ( Plate 2 .
fig. ) when a current enters a very large sheet of at the ccntre , leaves by the four corners of a square round this electrode as a centre .
Wheu a current enters a conduct -sheet by one point and leaves in equal currents by hers , the tion to an equipotential curve becomes where r is the distance from the positive electrode , and the distances from the negative electrodes to an point of the In the particular case lvhen , and when the elec.trodes are all in the straight line , this becomes a rectangular hyperbola , the foci of lvhich are the positions of the , and the positive electrode is at the ceutr of the hyperbola .
This is the case which given in fig. 5 , vorked out experimentally , where the ] distance of the hyperbola is 76 millims. , and its vertex is at a distance from the centre equflJ to millims. , .
very nearly millims. The measured nlues of from the itxis for six some millims. apart from one allother , are 108 , 109 , 108 , 108 , 108 , 108 millims. The theoretical for this difference is millims. The of lectrical I When there are four equal electrodes with currents entering the sheet by two of them and } by the other two , Consider the case when these four electrodes lie on the circumference of a circlc .
Join each of like electrodes by straight ]ines , and produce the chords of the circle so joined to meet one another .
Let be these chords in C. the potential at the pont is Equipotential Curves and Draw roumd as centre the circle which cuts the circumference of A at right angles , and let it cut he circle in and , and the chords in and Then CA .
and If the value of the constant is zero in the ession , then the centre is a point of zero If we produce the other two chords of the circle to meet in the point and take a point AB , such that OA .
, and a circle about with OD as radius , then this circIe is an equipotential curl for the four electrodes .
if be any of this circle , then : PA : : DB : and But the potential at any point , , due to the four electrodes is ; hence on the circle this becomes , is the same as the potential at the D. Since : OD : OB , and : : , or : : the potential at is A , or Alog , or A These results that the circle through is an VOL. XXIV .
Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of curve for the four equal electrodes ; also that the potential at any point of this circle is the same as the potential at the centre old be if there were only a positive electrode at A and a negative electrode at , which is the same one half the potential at the centre , , due the four electrodes .
take of these electrodes , through draw another chord through two other odes on the circle , and draw the equipotential circle for this set of four electrodes , shall find that all such cut both the circles and mutunlly at right ] , and that th circle is a line of flow for all such systems of four electrodes on the circle The circles , and will intersect mutually at right angles .
This will ppear if it is that and B intersect on the ommoll chord of the circIes and ; for in that case the gent to drawn from is equal to the rndius of Let the circle be referred to ttgnts through the point and their common chord ; then its equatiou is Let and be the ioIts to the two lines and We may call the points , the points The equation to the chord and A is and the equation to the chord joining and is These intersect on the line where it meets The equations to tho tallgents through this point and which touch the circles at the points and The equation to the chord joining these points is which passes ough the point .
The circle HEK is a of flow for any such system of ystem equal electrodes as , lying on a which cuts the HEK at right angles .
Equipotential Curves and Surfaces , Sc. potential curves .
If , heu , at points A and , on circular disk HEK , we have equal and opposite battery-electrodes , the curves will be the as the equipotential curves in au infimte sheeb hich are no to those two electrodes , together with equal and like electrodes at their electrical images with regard to the circle* .
Extension of of Electrical es .
We have seen that the -line of a disk is made up of arcs of circles passing through the two battery-electrodes , then the forms of the lines of flow will be the same as in an infinite sheet ; and consequently the forms of the equipotential curves are arcs of circles .
AVe nlso seen hen the boundary of the is a circle , and the electrodes he within it , the forms of the lines of flow will bo altered because the presence the edge of the disk ; and the in the electrical distribution tvill be that due to equal quantities of electricity in the position of the electrical images of the electrodes formed by the edges of the disk .
If from a disk with equal batteryelectrodes lying within it , cut ofl a portion bounded by the arc of that the circlc HEK is lime of flow the four electrodes may be iily seen if we resoh the of at any point , of the circumference of this circle iu the ection of the ritdius at point .
As by Prof. W. , the riLte of arising from each electrode is inyersely the the electrode .
Let the dins ; then , according to Prof. 's notation , he pnrt the radius from the two like electrodes will be ' or ; bnt so that therefore lIellco tho rate of the radius , viz. , is the same as if there were au equal elec .
trod at C. { he ay it be shown that the rate of flow the from the other electrodes is the same quantity , bul opposite di rection .
Hellae thore is no along the radius at the point } hell positive electrodes at A and , and other electrodes So thnt at pomt , , of the circlc HEK the fcrcncc of 1110 circlc must bc the lino ] Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of circle which passes through the two electrodes and cuts the circular disk at right angles , we shall not lter the forms of the equipotential curves within either of the disks bounded by the arcs of these two circles .
In all these cases the boundary-line will be mnde up of lines of flow , and the equipotential curves will cut the edge of the disk at right angles .
Or if , in an unlimited sheet , each of two battery-electrodes be divided into two , so that equal currents flow through point , and if these four electrodes be so arranged that on the circumference of a circle , then the forms of the equipotentiad curves will be the same as in the case of a circular disk which has its centre at the point of intersection of the chords joining the two positive electrodes and the two negative electrodes ] whose radius is equal to the tangent drawn from this point to the circle on which the electrodes lie .
In the case of the circular disk , the positive electrode outside the disk becomes the virtual electric image of the other positive electrode , and the outside negative elecrrode becomes the electric imagc of the other negative electrode .
The edge of the disk cuts the other circle at right angles , and is a lin of flow for the four equal electrodes in the unlimited sheet .
Hence no alteration is made in the forms of the lines of by cutting the sheet along this edge .
This will apply to the case of any unlike equal electrodes within a circular disk when there are any numbel .
of electrodes connected with the disk ; for if we take all these electrodes and their electric images , and suppose them to be kept lually cbarged , each image like its point , then the unlimited sheet the liIle in the position of the edge of the disk will be a line of flow for every set of two unlike electrodes and their images , and therefore for all of them when taken together .
Hence , by cutting ffiong the edge of the disk to which such images are due , no change is made in the lines of flow or in the equipotential curves .
In fig. 3 , A and are like electrodes .
When the currents entering or leaving the disk the several electrodes are not all equal , since the sum of the currents entering the disk must be equal to those leaving it , they may all be divided up into sets of two unlike equal currents ; and hence for all cases of currents entering Bquipotem Curves and Surfaces , Sc. and leaving a circular disk , the is in the position of a line of flow for all the electrodes and their images in the unlimited sheet .
At an electrode and its the currents are , and must be supposed to be both enterin both leaving the sheet .
the case when the two equal sets of unlike electrodes in the unlimited sheet lie at the corners of a , then the straight lines joining the like poles bisected at right angles by a straight line , which is line of flow .
Hence , if the sheet be cut along this straight line , no alteration is made in the lines of on either side of it ; and the pair of uulike electrodes on one side of it become the images of the electrodes on the other side .
In the case of a plane sheet limited by two lines at right angles , three electrical images of each electrode be formed by the two rectangular intersecting sides ; and these images lvill be arranged in a circle about the point of intersection , in the same positions as the optical images formed by two plane mirrors at right angles to one another .
The equipotential curves in this case will be the same as those in an infinite sheet when there four equal electrodes of each kind\mdash ; the four positive electrodes tahing the positions of the one positive electrode and its thres images , and the four negative electrodes being similarly placed .
A pttrticular and an intel'esting oase ctrises when one of the electrodes is on the edge of the oircular disk ; the electric image of this electrode then coincides with the electrode itself ; and the case in an unlimited sheet which corresponds to this is that where a current enters the sheet at one point , and leaves it by equal currents at two other points , the three points lying on a circle which touches the radius of the disk , cuts the disk at right leso , at the point where the current enters the sheet .
When a current enters a circular disk at point on the edge , ftnd leaves it by equal currents at two other points , the corresponding case iu an uulimited sheet is that where a current enters the sheet at one poiut and leaves by equal currents at four other lying two two ou Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of circles which touch one another at the point the current enters the sheet ( fig. 4 ) .
If , in an indefinite sheet ( Plate 2 .
fig. 3 ) , one of the battery-electrodes separated into four parts attached to the tinfoil at the four corners of a square , if the other battery-electrode be ched at the centre of the , then the current at the centre will be four times the current at each corner of the the forms of the equipotential curves will be the same when there are only two , unIike equal electrodes in sheet limited in two directions by straight lines meeting the centre parallel to the sides of the square , the three electrical in the limited sheet being in the same positions as of he electrodes in the unlimited sheet .
This is particular case of the last , when electrode and its image at the ends of diameter of the circle , and are equally from { he point at which the current cnters the shect ( fig. 5 ) .
The cnse one positive electro the cent four negative elecfrodes at the corners of a unlimited sheet miLy { be regarded as equivalent to two sets of elecfrodes , sct consisting.of one positive electrodc the .
of electrodes at equal ances a the mcnsured frolu 1 corner when the shcet is long t tv cdges .
The curves { also the snmc { in li1nited ) tn right angles to one ) is ] the other on the diagonffi of the squal.e shccf , odcs b. at the in the cases .
The ourves in .
fig. 4 snch oue posiA and a negative elecfrodo ) of 3 ches .
hole shcct of tiJlfoil b inches Tt also he regarded a case of sets of elecfrodes in nlilnited where tbcre are clecfrodes in ench set at nces t same ] , the Qllt enfering the middle oue and out at he oll er octrodes .
Since the circle Equipotential Curves and Surfaces , Sc. is not line of flow for such a system of electrodes , we cannot have this system of equipotential curves and lines of flow in a circular disk .
A particular solubion of this case , the equipotential for potential , is a rectanguhr hyperbola , having its centre and two foci at the three electrodes ( see Plate 1 .
fig. 5 ) .
In the case of a circular disk the electric image the centre may be regarded as a point at an infinite distaucs , so that the distance of the image any point of the circuIar disk remains constant .
If , then , one electrode be at the centre and the other at the circumference of a circular disk ( Plate 1 .
fig. 6 ) , the corresponding case in the unlimited sheet is that where the current flowing in at the oircumference is double the current flowing out at the centre , may conceive of it as a case where there is one electrode at an infinite distance , equal to and of like kind with the electrode at the centre .
In such case the potential point is expressed by Hence for an equipotential curve where is the radius of the circle ( which is introduced for the sake of making the equation homogeneous ) , and is some ratio which is constant for the same curve .
With polar about the centre , talCing as the radius of the cilcle , we get ; If or , the is a closed curve , and , wheu is small compared with , the curve nearly coincides au ellipse of and mean distance : .
Hence expresses the percentage of error in the alue of if the ellipse be instead of the curve .
In a circular disk of 100 millims. in radius the distance between the curve and the ellipse a distance of 25 millims. from the centre of the disk is only about millim. When is less { han 2 and greatel than , the of double tlre , points of inflectiou .
From he of he curve obtain Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of If , then Hence ; nnd the curves generally cut the edge of the disk at right angles .
When and , then the two branches of the curve meet on the edge at the extremity of the diameter through the two poles .
On this Hence when and the two branches of the are each tcliued at an angle of to the edge of the disk .
The polar equation to this curve is much simplified when this double point is taken as the origin of coordinates .
The polar equation then becomes : and From this result it is easy to see that there is no point of inflection in the curve ; so that each branch of the curve is continuous and remains on the same side of its tangent .
From the above equations the culve may be traced .
It consists of two loops , form a continuous curve , the two anches cutting one another at right angles in passlng through the double on the edge of the disk .
The complete equipotential culves for unlimited sheet may also be readily traced from the above equations to those curves by giving different values to ( see Plate 1 .
fig. 7 ) .
Neglecting the part of the curve outside the disk , the equation to the curve may be put umder the form To find the points where it cuts the axis , let ; theu , where the gns aro to be together .
Equipotential and Surfaces , 2 .
In the case when the distances being measured in opposite directions .
To find the change in the value of when has a slightly different .
Let suppose ; then or nearly .
Hence if be increased by , the curve cuts the axis at distance of nearly one fourbh of the radius from the singular point .
If is less than 2 , the curve does not cut the axis on the negative side of the origin .
We may find where it cuts the of the disk by king Let then and ; so that is very nearly Hence a very small variation in the value of produces very great changes in those parts of the which are not near to the centre of the disk .
This is a point of very great importance in connexion with the tracing of equipotential curves on tinfoil or copper disks ; and the uncertainty in the experimental determination of points in the neighbourhood of the singular point ( ses Case 6 , p. 6 ) is entirely explained .
Supposing that one of the galvanometer-electrodes is placed on the straight line joining the two battery-electrodes at the point in Plate 2 .
fig. 6 .
When the pin or electrode is 1 millim. in diameter the equipotential culve corresponding to one extremity of the diameter of the cuts the edge of the circular disk at a point distant from the siugular point , whilst the equipotential curve through the other exfremity Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of of the same diameter of the pin cuts the radius to the singular point at distance of more than one third of the radius from the gular point .
In order to the cves near the point correctly , both galvanometer-electrodes must be plnced in contact with the disk in the neighbourhood of the singular point .
Electrical Distribution in Spacof dimensions .
To consider the laws of distribution of electricity in space of three dimensions , let a poiIlt or smffi sphere be charged with electricity ; then , by Laplace 's equation , the at any point at distancs from it is of the form If there be two points of electricity to A A and , then the potential at point is of the form , where are the distances from the point to the spheres .
When the charges on the spheres are equal , but of opposite kinds , the expression for the potential becomes The equipotential surfaces will then be surfaces of revolution about the ight line joining the charged eres .
For an equipotential curve we shall have On referring to the experiments battery-elecfrodes immersed to considerable depth in a conducting , so ]10t to be lear the boundary of the liquid , we see the same tion is true for the when { current iu ono electrode and out at the other .
The equation to an equi o surfaco be of the form Take a section of the surface through the axis , and refer the section to lon rectangular coordinates .
Let the of revolution be the axis of line equidistant the electrodes be the axis of , then the eqnation to the is rom where is the between the electrodes .
For a consecutive point in the same curve , we get or Equipotential Curves and Sc. Hence for the line of flow through which cut this curve at right angles , or or Integrating , we get , where is constant .
The culVe cuts the axis of at a point here a If is the hich the two radii drawn to the same point make with the axis they are equal to one another , then If iuld be the angles which the radii drawn to any point in the curve make with the axis , then the equation to a line of flow be ritten in the form oos This be the equation to the line of flow in through the electrodes .
These lives of flow coincide ) the lines of force iu space ith equal opposite } arges the positions of the electrodes .
They also coincide with the uetic ] ines of force when the two poles are in the same positions the electrodes .
this tion the form of the lines of flow be dily d Let AB be the electrodes , the middlc of AB , O bisect AB at right angles .
be a point on the line of force .
Describe a semicircle 011 AB cutting AE in the F. Take AH equal to twice .
Place AH in position ANH cutting the circle in take chord BG to NH ; BG produced will meet AH on the line of force .
Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of For ' ; AN BG AN Be AH and ; or We may l.egard the condncting-mass as divided into two parts by a plnne passlng through the axis of revolution of the lines of flow .
The equipotential surfaces will all cut every such plane at right angles .
Hence we may suppose the conducting-mass on one side of such plane to be removed without changing the form of the equipotential surfaces .
The of the conductor between the two electrodes will then be doubled .
Hence in liquid the form of the lines of flow equipotential surfaces will be the same when the electrodes are both in the surface of ths liquid as when they are immersed to infinitely great depths in it .
For the same reason , if the liquid be coutained in a very large rectangular vessel with two plane sides parallel to the line joining the electrodes , the forms of the equipotential surfaces will be same when the electrodes are on the line the surface of the liquid meets one side of the box , provided they are not near the ends of the box , and provided the opposite side of the box is too far off to disturb the forms of the equipotential surfaces .
A particular solution of the equation to the lines of is At one of the electrodes , and heuce ; and at the other , and hence ; so that the lines of cut the axis at right angles , .
the lines of flow by this tion touch the two planes drawn through the electrodes at right angles to the axis .
In order that the lines of flow in essel c liquid may coincide accurately with the lines of in a hquid of infinite extent in all directions , it is necessary that seclion of the boundary of the vessel through the electrodes should be a ) of From the above considerations , it that near the electrodes the ends of the vessel may be plane and at right angles to the axis , without causing much change of form in the surfaces .
When there are charges of electricity at several points , then the potential at any other point is the algebraic sum of the potentials at that point due to the several charges separately .
This will also be the case in a hquid conductor of nited extent in every direction when currents ellter { leave the hquid , at several points at a great depth within it .
Equipotential Curves and Surfaces , Sc. The potential at any point is of the form If the currents flowing out and in at the several points are all equal , then the potential is of the form .
If the electrodes are all in one plane , then this plane may be taken as one of the bounding surfaces of the conducting liquid , without altering the forms of the equipotemtial surfaces , which cut the plane always at right angles .
If are the distances of a point from the electrodes , then , four electrodes , the equation to an equipotential surface will be Suppose the electrodes to be in the same straight line at ; and let , and ; the electrodes at A amd , and the tive electrodes at and ; then the equation to a section of an equipotential surface through the axis referred to rectangular coordinates , as before , will be Differentiating , get for a consecutive point Hence for line of flow hich cuts this at right ) gles , Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of Hence , by and ting n before , we get or where are angles which the radu make with the line on which the electrodes lie .
If we mine the equation which gives the lilles of flow where four electrodes itre arranged symmerically along a ight line , we see that when is greater than 2 , the does not cut eithel .
of the two planes given by the equations , or but lies entirely veen them , and it cuts the axis at the two interior electrodes .
The curve meets the plane here it cuts the ; for for this point .
When is less than 2 , the curvs cuts the planes and at some distance from the axis , and cuts the axis at the point from which is measured , .
it cuts the axis at the two exteriol electrodes .
The has very cIose contact with the plane oos , since the distance between them depends on the differences quantities of the sccond order .
Hence in a rectangular box , when the two electrodes are near to , but not in contact with the ends , the lines of flow and surfaces should very closely coincide with the lines of surfaces in space , that two additional cquml electrodes placed at the electric images of the electrodes .
The of the constant , the will determine directly the cosine a1lgle at the txis .
at the when is less , iu which case the cuts the axis at the exterior electrodes all ngle c , or when is grenter , iu itso the curve cuts the axis at .
As in tho case of odes , if any , both intersecting long the line of the electrodeR , be ) surf of the conducting liquid , there will be no chnng in of the lines of flow and the equipokutial surfaces .
Tho he ill be inversely proportional to the angle veen t such planes .
Equipotential Curves and Sc. A case of this kind occurs when the electrodes lie ou the straight line where the surface of the liquid meets the plane vertical side of the vessel contaimng it .
Electrical Distribution with Linear Elect ) odes .
Next consider the case in which the ] ectrodes are parallel straight lines , extending throughout the liq .
With one electrode , the potelltial at any point at a from it is When there are several electrodes , the potential is If the currents flowing into the liquid at the seyeral electrodes are all , the potential ls ; and for an equiottial surface we have . .
where dashes below the letter electrodes .
This equation is the same as that obtained for a plane conductor of small thickness , which has been lready considered ; and the forms of the equipotential surfaces cylindrical .
The disk of tinfoil may be considered as particular case of the solid with electrodes throughout the whole thickness when that thickness is supposed to be small .
For two linear electrodes with equal and opposite currents , the equipotential 'ces w , ill be circular cylinders , and the lines of flow ] also be circular cylinders cutting them at right angles .
The particnlar cases of other disks which have been considered will give the sections of the equipotential surfaces for the corresponding cases with electrodes in the liquid , and will completely determine them .
Supposing tho surface of the liquid to be of unlimited extent , and that a current enters by one line electrode , and leaves by currents at two iv electrodes , the forms of the cylindrical sulfacesvill be given by the equation When the positive electrode is at the middle point of one side of the rectangular box used in the experiments , and an negative electrode is within the box and near the same side , as in Case 10 , the forms of tho equipotential surfaces will be given by the equation ; are the distances of the point from the tive electrode and from its image .
This equation will give the form of the surfaces accurateIy only wheu Notice of Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 18 , the opposite side and the two ends of the ffi enough off that they may be regarded as practically at an infimte distance from the electrodes .
When , the equation becomes : so that the section of the cylin surface is rectangular hyperbola .
A curve determined by experiment is drawn in Plate 2 .
fig. 12 , very near to the position of this hyperbola ; but as one of the eloctrodes was at the centre of the box , the forms of the equipotential curves will be slightly changed , because of the influence of the opposite side and ends of the box .
At the vertex the two curves coincide , and , measured along the latus rectum of the hyperboh , the distance between them is only 5 millims. Since the distance between the batlery-electrodes is one half the breadth of the box , the influence of the side and ends of the box will be quite sufficient to account for so small a difference .
Thus we see that with linear electrodes there is a very satisfactory agreement between theory and experiment .
The equipotential curves for Case 10 , with linear electrodes in the liquid , are theoretically the same as those for Cass 5 , with points on a sheet of tinfoil for electrodes .
A comparison of the figm.es ( Plate 1 .
fig. 5 and Plate 2 .
fig. 12 ) which are laid down from the experimental resuIts shows how closely they agree , and may be taken to be an pendent proof of the accuracy of the theory of electrical distribution .
November 18 , 1875 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the en suing Anniversary Meeting given from the .
Etheridge , Mr. F. Galton , Mr. Newmarch , Dr. W. Pole , and .
W. W. Smyth , having been nominated by the President , ere elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurer 's on the part of the Society .
Mr. Robert Lewis John Ellery ( elected 187 Mr. James Geikie , Dr. Klein , Prof. E. Bay Lankester , Mr. Iiobcrt Stirling ) , and the Earl of Carnarvon were admitted into the Society .
The Iowing extract from the Will of Sir Charles Wheatstone , F.B.S. , in a letter from Mr. Robert , one of executors , ' I leave to the Boyal Society of London for the Promotion of Knowlcdge the Portr of the Holy .
) BoyIe , and the framed Portraits of sc.ientific men now in my sion ; and 1 also bequeRth to the said Royal Soc.iety the sum of Five ndred P , to be applied to the purposes of the Wollaston Donalion Fund

