XVI .
Obser7 &gt; ations on the Stntostberes of Zenus and the Mooza , their restective Densities , perpendicular Heights , and the Twiligbt occasioned by them .
By John Jerome Schroeter , Esq. Of Lilienthal , in the Duchy of Bremell .
Translatedfrom the Germalle Read May 24 , o79t .
On the Atmosphere of Venus .
ALTHOUGH the evidence afforded us by the most recent observations and discoveries , llot only of the existence , but also of the various and singular properties of the atmospheres of Saturn , Jupiter , Mars , and the Moorl ) be in a manner incontl^overtible ; yet so inconclusive are the few observations hitherto made on the atmosphere of Venus , that several of the greatest astrollomersX have lately thought themselves authorized to doubt its very existence .
The followxng inquiry may hence prove the more acceptable to those ho favour the investigations of nature , not only as it evinces , in my opinionX the existence of such an atmosphere , but also as it points out several irwfererlces concerning its nature and properties , svhi\#163 ; h to me appear new and interesting What convitlced me , twelve years ago , when I first bega to observe V-enus with a good three-feet achromatic telescopes * See Sstrono ?
wie de M. DE LA LAND , S. Z272 .
that it actually has an atmosphere of no small extenty was the striking diminutxol1 of ]ight which I noticed on the planet in its various phases from its exterior litnb towards the interior edge of its illumillated surface , and especially near the latter : and this appearance it was which induced me to make farther olsel+vations on the sub}ect , especially as I found that the phnOlePlOxl recurred as often as I looked at the planet with an [ ERSCHELLEAN four and seven-feet reflectorn arlued with the l &lt; gller mag ; nifying powers .
The great number of observations I have now made on this object , for a series of years ) being upon the whole very similar in their nature and resllltse it would no doubt be not only te dious , but also superiltlous , to describe them here at length : but the following general remarlis it may be necessary to premise , in order to obviate all luisapprehension , and the false conclusivris that might be deduced from hasty and inaccurate observations In fig. .
Tab. VI .
which I have annexed for the sake of greater perspicuity the light appears strong ; est at the outward limb a b , c , from whence it decreases gradually , and in a regular progession towards the itlterior edge or tertninatory and this not only towards its midcile d , e , but also near the -two cusps t g , h i , the light becoming so dim irnmediately at this border g , f , sl , e b ) i , that it commonly loses itself itl a.fhint bluish grey &gt; :foruling a very indefinite ragged margin , scarce ; discernible with the best telescopes , andwhich , in se veral of the phases , resembles the interior utleven border of the moon , as it appears to the naked eye , or to a pover magnifying from 1 to 4 tinles .
The following circumstances must necessarily be attended to respecting these observations .
t. This diminution of lighe naturally shows itself between the greater eastern and vestern elongations and the inferior conjunction , when Venus appears about half full , or falcated but still of suSicient breadtla .
2 .
But this dimintltion is not equally sensible in all the phases of the planet , but sonzetilmes much more so than at others .
These appearances depend greatly on the clearness of our atmosphere , on the telescope giving a very distirlct , soft , mellow image , and on the eye being properly-prepared for such observations .
3 .
Whell , in the Inore falcated phases , we wish to obsersre distinctly and accurately this diminution of light at the farther extremit-ies of the cusps , it is necessary to advert that , whilst about the middle of the terlminating border between d , e , here the luminous part has its greatest breadthg this diminution , if seen under favourable circumstarlces , is too perceptible to leave the least doubt or suspicion , the points of the cusps , especially when the weather and other collateral circumstances are not favourable , appear , indeed , somewhat fainterfi but yet almost as bright as the outward limb near b. As the diminution of light , whether the cause proceed from its own 1lature , or from that of the atmospheres must be in the same proportion at the cusps as at the llliddle of the tertninator , I could not but be puzzled at this appearance ; but the multitude of observations I have since made on the pointsof the cusps , sometimes when they were tolerablys lbright , and at others when they appeared as faint as the other parts of the said border at length cleared up my ctoubts , and led me to the true cause of this variable appearance , which , to prevent similar perplexities in others , I shall here state at length Considering thek izm ; tnense ; heiglit : of the mountains , and the great inequalities ot1 the surface of Venustg it is natural to Sllppose that as at the tinaesf of its greatest elotlgations , one cusp frequently appears poirlted and the ; other blullt , owingt to the shadow of some mountain darkening the extremity of the latter , the same appearance may often take place ill the falcatedphaseof the planet .
But the cllsp wlo , e extremity &gt; co:vered by as slz-adow will , ill this case , so far from appearing blunta always exhibit a pointed appearance ; it being in that aspect too sharp for us to distinguish acturately its true forrx .
Should , for instance , thetpoint of the cusp os n y , fig. 2 , be immersed in a shadow fromf rto , this pointX ill such a case though it may be-somez^that blunted from aG to &gt; , will never theless appear sharp , because its whole breadtla does often not exceed 4 of a second , whence its true foran must needs escape our observation.t W ; do nc)t , in this instance , see thevery faintly illuminated point cs nor yet the real lulminous edge y,0 &gt; -but only its promineIlt and brighter part os &gt; ; a deception this , which cannot take place in the other parts of the termi nator , where indeed : X the satnecauses , viz. the shadows of mountains %7ill no doubt , at times occasion an uneven , ragged appearance , but cannot rtlaterially affect the very faint light of thDe whole .
It is , moreover evident , that even when the extremities of the cusps are , asfin fig. 1 , not darkened by shadows , the fiint luminous pointsfg , fb iy are not always visible , but can only. .
* The perpendicular height of these mountains3 as I have already shown in a former work , is in proportion to the diameter of the planet , at least as great as the height of t'ne tnountains ; n the moon , in proportion to its much s-horter diameter ; this fact X have had fFequent oppsrturlitiesXto asw-rtain .
See Selenotop .
Fragm .
5 .
5z2 , b-e seen with certainty at such -times when the air is very clear and calm , are &lt; d a good telescope with a large aperture , and high luagnifyIng powerX is used-in the observation .
/ Alld it follows that , except 1lnder those circumstances , the parts-:of the cusps afR C b , lnLlst , on account of their great sharpness , be the apparelat and sufficientlyX luminous extremities ; sitlce , according to well ktlown principles , the exterior points a , and c will have as much-light as the pOillt k , -near the middle of the crescent.\ ; ; : But in a clear and ca11n atmosphere , and with a high magnifying power , it is truly pleasing to see , af-ter the eye is accustomed to it , how the whole of the termillating border , e^7en to the farther extremities of the cusps , vanishes gradual]y , and becomes at last so faint , that ill theX day ; time , and here there are any inequalities , it insensibly loses itself in the colour of the sky .
Such striking diminutions of light have I seen repeatedly Wittl my four-feet reflector , with a power magnifying 280 times , and my seven-feet reflector , with a gyo lmagnifying power ; and particularly on the 20th of November , 791 , when with a power of 161 , I sawt the light of the terminator dwindle away , and appearing , for a breadth of about s or 12 seconds , = almost as grey as the ash-coloured spots on the moon .
'rhose who are at all Xacquainted with the theory of light , need hardly be reminded that on an illuminated spl:lerical surface of a planet , the light will ever appear fainter tonvards its border , in proportion as the angle between the incident ray from the sun and the said surface lvecomes smaller.$ t It m2y equally be superflllous to illustrate how , since the sun appears on the planet 07enus under a diameter of about 4+ ' , its luminous border must have a no inxnsiderable penumbra It appears , however , Eom calculation , that this whole peBut what here claims our particular notice ) is the singular circumstance that , except in the planet Mercury , concerning which I have not yet a sufficient numberk of-observatios a similar diminution of light is not observed in so sensil)le a degree on any of the other planets of our solar system , our earth only excepted .
RMars , Jupiterg and Saturn , cannot , illdeed , on account oftheir great distance , exhibit on our globe the variable phases of a half , or smaller portion , of an illuminated hemisphere , whence no fair arguments can be derived from those instances : but the comparative appearances of the moon , in this respect , will-be thought the more sirlgular if carefully attended to , the narginal diminution of light on this satellite , which , however , Iike Venus , is a sphere illuminated by the sun , notbeing nearly so perceptible and evident , as that above described .
Of this we may fully--persuade ourselves , by comparing the appearalaces of the terminating borders of the moon in its falcated phases or quadratures , with the sa &lt; borders on Venus at the same periodical aspects .
Should this striking difference not be reconcileable upon our established optical Uprinciples , nothing will remain but the analogy , that , as the density of our atmosphere checks the sun-beams the more , the longer they proceed thereill in a direction which after the rise or before the setting of the sun , carries them over a certain track of land ; arsd as such a track , on which the SUll at its rising and numbra , which , according to the greatest apparent diameter of Venus , extends from 59 to 60 " , measures in the direction perpendicular to the llne of the cusps only o,36 " , or T of a second of a degree ; and that where this penllmbra is observable in its exterior darker parts , its breadth is not above IIo 0f a secon(l , whence it cannot be visible throughollt .
setting shilles from the horizon , is but feebly illuminated ; SQ also is Venus circumstanced with regard ta the light it receives from the stln .
To colupare with some accuracy the illt-ensity of light at the terminating borders on our earth , relatively to its full perpendicular illunzination , withn the same phenomenon oll Vetlus , may- , fc3r srant of opportunities to observe both plane\#162 ; s at once from a proper distance , as may be dolle with regard to Venus and the moon , not l)e very feasible ; but this , I think , I may with great confidence itlfer from my long series of observations , that Venus has an atmosphere in some respects similar to that of our earth , and which must far exceed that of the naoon in its dellsity , or power to weaken the rays of the sun.\ # Thus far had I proceeded in my observations , when the heavens favoured tne with the following ones , which may prove the more interestingn as they not only confrm those hitherto made , but also lead to some farther inferences concernSing the atmosphe-re of Vewnus .
Among all the favotlrable circumstances for observing the phnet Venus , rwone could be more so than those I had in the ulonths of March aXnd April , but especially from the gth to the 16th of March , 179s , when , besides the almost constant and unusual serenity of the sky , the planet , which was then in Aries , at 7t and S'-N .
declination , was so high above the horizon , that , notwithstanding its approaching inferior conjunction on the 18th or March , at 4 P. 1M .
I could still view it on the z6th , and should certainly have observed it during the conjunction , had not the weather become hazy on the 17th .
Under these very fortunate circumstances , I fell accidentally ( not havingn after terl years of coxlstant attention to Venus , beerlable to devise any new mode of observing ) on the 9ths zoth , 11th , and 12th of March , :up-on an obseraration , which I repeatedly confirmedg and which , on account of its singu]arity , and the light it will probabiy throw on the physical constitution of this planer , will certainly be ever thought important ; especially as itmay not in matly years be repeated under so favourable a combination of incidents .
&gt; On the gth of March , 1790 , immediately after sun-set , and till 6h:4S ' , I saw Venus with a beven-feet reflector , magnifying 74,9S , and 161 times , very distinctly , and uncotnmonly splendi:d5 .
The southern cusp did not appear precisely of its usual cirfcular form , but rather asvis represented at a , fig. , inflected in the shape of a hook beyond the lutninous semicircle into the dark hemisphere of the planet .
This , howearer , after my former observations , * utas Dnot new to me : but a far more striking phxnomenon , :which I Dhad never seen:before , excited my 0admiration , and particular attention .
The northern cusp was terminated at b , in the same narrow tapering manner as the southern , but did not extend in its bright luminous state xnto the dark hemisphere .
From its point , however , the light of which , though gradually fading , was yet of sufficient bright ness , a streak of glitnmering blussh : light proceeded }nto the dark 1lemisphere , -from b to c , which though intermittent as to intensity , was yet permanent as to duration , and although very faillt , could yet be plainly seetl with both the abovementioned magnifying powers .
Like the luminous line then seen on Saturn , its light seemed to twinkle in ; various detached points , and appeared throughout not only very fiint , when colalpared with the light at the point of the cusp , but also of : See Selesi Fragm .
S. 523 .
a very peculiar kind of fiintness , verging tosvards a pale greyish hue .
The limb of the planet at this small part of its dark moietys appeared with as faint a light , and , compared with the estremity of the southern cusp , as pale as the dark limb of the noon three days before and after the nenv moonX when it is faintly illuminated by the reflected rays from the earth : and it appea3red to laleX tha$ towards the farther extremity C-3 uhere it was actually inflected , according to the circular limb of the dark hemisphere , its light vanished into a pale bluish tint , in the same nzaxlner as the more vivid light of the 1t1-minous hemisphere dsvindles away towards the terminating border and the extremities of the cusps .
The sd fig. represents this striking phnornenon only in its projection , it being impossible to give a ju-st representation of it in a dravingz Surprised at this new and singular appearance , I pointed it QUT to Mr. TISCHBEIN , arl ingenious artist , who was then with me ellgraving the plates for my Selenotopographic Fragments and desired him to attend particularly to all its circumstances .
He found and described the whole-just as I had seetl it .
I made the drawing , Sig.:3 , under his eye ; and we viewed the obJect together very attentifirely for about an how , svhell the planet desce-nded too low to be distinctly seen .
; The apparent diameter of Venus was , by means of the projecting table , and the mean of several observations , all of which agreed to within lt ' , found to measure 59 " ; but the greatest breadth of the ill-uminated part did not exceed 2,6 " .
-On the following elrening , the air being as calm and serene as the preceding one , I observed the planet from 6h to 6h 40'9 but on account of some necessary alterations in the apparatus MDGCXGIIS T t of the seven-feet reflectol aI could : use only the follr-feet 1n_ strument , with powers luagnifying g4 and 70 times .
The southern cusp had its lurninous prolongation , but not quite so distinct as the preceding Llight ; bta ; t what was\#162 ; lore remarkable , each cusp , but chiefly the northertl one , had nosr most evldently a faint tapering prolongation , of a bluish grey caste which , gradually fading , extended along the dark hemispheres so that the ltlmincous part of the lilub was consielerably more than a semicirc , l. 0tz the 1lext taight , beilzg the 1 jth of March , when the senren-feet reflector was agairl fit for use , I found Venus beSere sun-set , with a power magrlifying 95 times .
At six o'clocky I saw distinctly the southern point terminating io a lurninous streak ; which-h 11OW , AS ill tlAt evening of t1Xe gthy was lolager and narrower than the bright terminatiota of the northerlo cusp .
rRhe apparent diameter of Vetlus measured 60 " ; but the greatest breadth of the illu:ninated part could not be ascert-aitled on accovI^lt of some undulations in the air , occasioned by rising vapours : the light , lloweYer ) sparkled througl this tretnulous ; medium , similar to the flash in a silver furrsace , and compari-ng what I could dist-inguish &gt; ?
ith the table of pro3ections , -this breadth I found could not well exceed 2/ ' .
I also saw most distinctly the faint blllisla luminous st ; reak , sellsit ?
lie extending in an inflected direction beyond the bright selnicircle , and continued observing it till 6hgo'/ , when ) on account of the descent of the planet , I ceased my observationt The powers I used magnified 945 and 74 -times .
Nodoubt can hence be entertained of the reality of this nerrlorable phnomenon ; but for reasons which I : shallgive hereafter , I was very solicitos to be able to measure the pro Jection of this glitulmering strip of pale light , and to ascertain whether sn fact it only belongs to the nortlaern cusp .
The very next or the fourth eveniag , gave me a favourabIe &lt; 3pportunity for this pllrpose , and this was the more fortutate , as , c)n accotlnt of the hazy weather that irnmediatelfit succeeded , of the increased teZilight into which the planet advanced , and of its decreasing declinatiola , this was the last evening in which such an-observation could be made with some plecision .
At six o'clock ) the attnosphere being ancom-monly clear , I looked at Ventls wYith the seven-feet reflectorp magnifying 95 and 74 time-s .
It appeared very distinct and I ascertained , beyolad the possibility of doubt , that the southerll -cusp proJected somewhat into the dark hemisphere , and that from the point of the northern one , the very faint narrow streak of pale bluish light , intermittent in intensity on account of its faintness , but yet permanent as to duration5 extended several degrees along the limb of the dark hetnisphere of the planet .
I strained all my vistlal povwJers ) but could actually see this appearance only at the northern point .
As the planet descended towards the horizon , the light of the very sharp southern , as well as that of the bright part of the northera point began to glimmer M ith gradual ( liluinution the xlatter more fairltly than the former ; but not the least appear ance of a pale 131uish prolongation could be traced at the southern cusp .
I had ilumediate recourse to the projection lzlaclline ) and though I found it very diicult to measure , with the greatest accuracy , the very f-aint light at the northerla , as ell as the bright prolongation at the solltherla cusp , I succeeded how er7er , to ascerta ; tl 1 .
That the iitlt streak at the northern cusp , as represerltedt in its proJection , fig g. extended at least 8't of a degree along the limb of the dark llemisphere .
2 .
That the ?
rolotlgation Hof the southern cusp measured likewise full 8s ' its inflected hooked form appearing now very distinctly- : and .
aThat the apparent diameter of Venus subtended an arlgle of betveen Gs ad 60t'.\#162 ; Had it not been for these very fiavourable observations from the gth to the &lt; 2th of March , r7g0 which evillced , beyond a possibility of doubt , that the illuminated limb of aJenus actually exceeds the semicircle , I should , perhaps ) never have arrivedat the importVant costnological discovery lt led to ; the days precedil1g them beilag too hazy , : and z those following- , though somewhat clearer ; yet too near the inferior conJunction of the plallet to admit of fair : observations .
On the 17tlln and on the w8th when the conjullction took place at + P. M. the sky was cloudy .
From the lst to the 2Stll , as also on the 30th of March , the lst , yth , 8th , and 2wst of April , the mornings about five ovolock were indeed sufficiently clear and it may easily be alnagined , that , considering the importance of the discovery , E did not fail to avail myself of them ; but the northern declination of the planet had now decreased too much , allct oll the other hand , the twilight in our latitude was become too great to see distinctly and with certainty what I had obser+7es1 before I had no doubt ?
at times , of the prolongation of either cusp into the dark hemisphere ; but circumstanced as the objects were , I was much upon my guard against visual deceptions My journal , however ?
supplies me with the following apv pearances .
a. Marcll 2gdg Sh lof , 4days after the conjunction , a faillt light appeared , at times , playing along the dark limb from the southern cusp .
The arc appeared hooked and irregular .
2 .
March the 24th , Sh .
I saw the exterior limb of the ilIuninated part maIlifestly much more convex at a , fig. 4 .
than at b. I alsQ actually saw , at present , neay d , a grey , fainty twinkling light , proceeding from the southern cusp in an in-flected direction .
Something of a similar appearance was like wise seen at the northern cusp c ; but this was still fainter , and somewhat les.s-inHected .
The bright extremitiesof the cusps were vely sharp , and silmilar in point of illUlllinatiOn g.March 2$th , Sh 15 ' .
The bright hooked prolongations ; extending from both cuspsX vsTere llotSso perceptible as otl the preceding days ; but I was now the more struck on seelng , under the present circumstances , lnanifest traces of the same faint ash-coloured inflected streaks extending inta the dark 11etnisphere , which I had beheld on the J.tt- : of March , and which now proceeded from the-extremities of both cusps , but more perceptibly so from the southernv See fig. ^G .
4 .
March ^goth , 11 2 days after the conjunction .
I now sawt no more of these appearances than I had done on the gth and the preceding days of this month particularly the gd and Sth hen nothing of this phnomenon could be perceived7 As these observations , made after the conj:unction , : fully confirm those from the gth to the th of March , I shall now proceed to state the inferences that appear to me evidently tC)5 result from them .
As there can nowr remain no doubt of the appearance of the pale ash-coloured streak of light b , c , fig. .
extending along the limb of the-dark hetnisphere of Venus ; and as this plaIlet cannot be said , like the moon , to receive some light upon its dark side from our earth , or any other heaven]y body , it follows that this light naust either proceed immediately from the sun , which , as I have frequently observed concerning the high mountairus Leibnitz and Doerfel in the moon , $ throws its rays directly on the tops of very lofty ridges of znourltains ; or else that it is a light hich partly illuminates the atmosphere of Venus , and partly , being reflected lie this atmosphere , marks out by a faint glimrner the limb of the dark hemisphere of the planet , in the same manner as our mortling and evening twilight acts upon ours .
All our present observations militate against the supposition of this phnol:nenotl being the effect of light imluediately proceeding from the sun ; for o. This light does not appear , as on the mountains Leibnitz and Doerfel in the moon ) in single , detached , and distant points ; but as a contitlued streak of light proceeding from the extremities of the cusps , and continuing along the limb of the dark hemisphere to a dist-ance of about 8 " , or , in proportion to the -apparent diameter of the planet , no less than 4So 19t of its circumference .
This light also9 compared with the bright part of the phase ) is not unlike the comparatively pale limb of the dark part of the nzoon before and after its conjunction .
2 .
Were this the light of the illumitlated summits of a chain of mountains , it would not appear so even , regularly conected , and $pheri-cal , as we behold ito But what relnoves all manner of doubt is , g The very d-ifferent , extremely faint , bltlish ash-coloured appearance of this glimmering light , which forms as great aQ* See Selen .
Frag .
S 75 .
and Tab , IV .
fig. 6 and 8 .
ctontrast with the svhitish more vivid light which ibs seen immediately otl the cusps as the ash-coloured light reflected from our earth ola the dark li]nbof the moon does , strhen compared with the solar light ort its phase .
lthis pale light in the dark heanisphere , it must be owned , faded away towards its termination , &lt; in the same manner as the solar light did at the edge of the bright phase:but had this faint streak , like the more vivid light ) been atl immediate elnanation from the sun , the gradual dilminution old have been throughout progressive in a cotltinued proportion ; anndl the light in the dark part , immediately CQtltigUOUS to the pointsof the cusps , must have had nearly the same degree of brightness as the points themselsres , which mZas by no means the case .
Every circumstance , therefore seems to evince that this ph3enomenon is occasioned by a liVght reflected by the atmosl3here of Venus into the dark hemisphere of the planet , being in some measure the light of the attmosphere itselfX when illuminated by the tays of the sun , or , in fact , a real tw7ilight .
But this will appear stiI1 more xllanifest *when 4 .
We compare , according to the abovenaentioned observatiOllS , the alternate relative appearances of the cusps of Venus reciprocally with each other .
On the Dth and 12tll of March , 179OS when the southern cvlsp exteIlded , not itlthe true spherical ctlrve of the limb of the planet , but in a somewhat hooked directionX into the dark hemisphere , t1]e pale bluisl ash-coloured streak appeared only at the point of the northern cUSp5 from whence it proceeded ill a true spherical curve , alog the darlk-litnb of the plarlet .
Ors the oth of Match , on the otCher handoj when the southern ; cusp did 1lot penetrate so far into the dark hemisphere , the pale streak was perceived at both points , though somewhat more sensibly at the northern than at the southern ; and such also were the appeararlces a-fter the inferior conjunction .
These appearances will be thus explained by the eSects of a tu ?
ilight .
The bright prolongation of the southern cusp , as it was seen on the loth and l2th of Alarch,5 a , fig ; .
St must be ascribed to the solar light illuminating a high ridge of mourltairas situated at this region , whetlce it appears wthy this prolorlgation might not be strictly spherical .
The twilight that must have existed at this part , would naturally be eclipsed by the much greater brightness of the light immediately derived from the sun , in the same manner as , on our earth , mountairls that face the rising or settxng sun , are known to darken the twilighe that ought faintly to illuminate the regions situated immediately behind them .
Were this not the case , there is no doubt but that a true spherical arch of the limb of the dark hemisphere would have appeared faintly illuminated : and such did we see was the eSect of this twilight produced at both cusps when the bright prolongation saras not considerable , the appearance being most decisive at that cusp where there was least of this prolongatione Should this pale streak of bluish ash-coloured light actually be the effiect of a twilight , it will not only profire the existence of an atmosphere , but we shall also , from the length of the streak , as measured orl the 12th of Marchs 7go , be able to draw some lnferences concerning its density , and real extent on the surface of the planet Accor(ling to that observation , the apparent diameter of the planet measured 60 " , and the visible stretch of the twilight , , as far as it could be seen with a power of 9SX applied to a seven-feet reflector , was estimated at 8 " , or eight of those parts of wElich 60 go to the diameter .
This gives a circumference of &lt; 8S,43and the degree will be equal to 0n52 of these parts ; and taking those 8 " as a chord , the arc , b c , fig. , over which the twilighe extends , will measure lS'w:l9 ' ; this being the portion of a great circle over which , in circumstances -as favourable as those I was favoured with , the twilight will be seen extending over the darli Ilemisphere of the planet .
This , and no more , is what I meant to express in one of my letters in which I mentioned the plltnomeilon in general , without any accurate computation , or particular induction .
But this pale luminous arc , b c , -fig .
3 , as it appears on the plallet , not when it is at its greatest elongation , when we see half its illuminated surface , but at a time when it is approachfing very near to its inEerivr conjuncticon , is in fact only the appa-rent , but by no meaxls the real extent of the twilight , in a per pendicular direction east and west from the circle terminating the dark and illumizlated hemispheres.:This real distance Inust evidently fall xlluch short of the length of the abovementioned arc .
The following fis the ulethod I have adopted to deduce the real extent of the twilight of Venus7 from the apparent one $ seen at the points of the cusps ... Let Sg fig. 6 , represent the sun , ADCBF the orbit of Venus , and T the place of the earth relatively to every:aspect of Venus in its orbit .
B will then lJe the point of inferior conjunction , C of the greatest western elongation , D of the superior cotljunction , A of the greatest eastern elongation , and F near]y the point , not far distant from the inferior conjunctions MDGCXCIIo U U at which I observed the planet on the o2th of March , 1y92- &gt; when I measured the extent of its twilight .
Let also ABGC fig. 7 , be the hemisphere of the pla net , turned towards our earth T , and AFDEC the other hemisphere turned tqwards the sun SX at the time of an inferior conjunction .
And let AC represent the terminating surface perpendicular to the plane AFDECGB extending from the centre of the sun through that of the planet Vellus , and the eye of the observer on our earth .
Af cC will then be the mutual edge of the two hemispheres , and the whole of the dark one ABGC will be directetl towards the eye of the observer at T. But whenever Venus , before or after an inferior conjunction , comes into such a position , relatively with the sun and our earth , as to be illtlminated by the former in the direction b E , fig. 7 , which position on the 20th of March , 179Q must have been nearly at F fig. 6 ; then will Fgc G , fig. 7 , be the mutllal terminating surface of the dark and light hemispheres of the luminous circumference ; of which surface , , however , only one half , c G , can be seen from the earth ; the other half , Fg c , lyil1g in the hemlsphere that is turned away from the eye : c wZill be the point of the cusp seen from T. This being premised , let the twilight of Venus be so considerable as to extend , ill a gradually-fading progression from the luminous terminating border Fgc G , to the line hfk i , which let us assume as the real border of the twilight .
Therl will a part of it , K f , terminating at g in the direction a g , parallel to bE c , the central ray from the sun , be seen projecting into the dark hemisphere of the planet , and this prolongation , as it was seen orl the 12th of March , z790 , will be the appa rent extent of the ts^rilight ; but its true extent will only be the distan\#162 ; efg measured ill degrees of a great circle .
And it is sufficiently evident , that the stmaller we assume the angle DC EX before or after an illferior co7tliullction , the more pointed of course will be its equal angle Ac Fg and hence also the longer the visible patt of the twilightfc .
It is likewise matlifest , that when the elongationof the planet is equal to the allgle Dc C , the line DckB will represent the termirlating surface of the dark and light hemispheres , whence the planet will , at its greatest elongation , be illuminated by the sun in the direction C c , and the true extent of the twilight will coincide with the apparent one on the terminating plane A c. In order theNn to calculate in anyX except the greatest , elola gation , the arofg , in the right-angled spherical trianglef cgg or to -ascertain the true extent of the twilight in degrees of a great circle , it will be requisite to measure from Ts the apparent prolongation of the twilight into the dark hemisphere i c , and the apparent diameter of the planet .
With these data it follows that , as the anglefg c is a right angle , the anglef Gg ri AcF_DsE may be found by calculation , and the are fg be -thence easily deduced .
But the anglefc gDcE is equal to the complement of the angle SF T , fig. 6 , on the planet , to t80 ' , orF ST+S TS , as is plainly illustrated by fig. o , Tab. VII .
Let S be the sun , T our earth , c the centre of Venus ; draw gcG perpendicular to -S cK and AcG perlrendicular to T c : then is Ac the projection of the visible terminating planeas seen from T , and Gg the projection of the luminous border .
ScT is the angle on the planetv KcB its cotuplement to180 ' , and Kc 13 = -C cGs Ua.s For EcG-NcS ' X r. l | .
9O EcC =AcK And hence CcGcKcB .
To find , therefore , the angle Sc T , calculate for the a 2th of March , y9o , at six o'clock in the evening .
The true heliocentric lotzg .
of Rlenus s 18 ' 371 4G/ , Long. of the earth , 22 21 20 Difference g 4g 4Z HeIiocentric lat. of Venus S 23 o Log. sin. 3 ' 4S ' 4St ' L 9 &gt; 999'795 + Log. cos. g 23 o= L.gggg2424 Tota1 cos. CS 1t = 9,998g219 L.s ' 2'0 Now in order to find the angle Sc l- , according to th$ heliocelltric distance of Venus from the earth , we have ila the triangle Sc Tg the angle at Sy and the two sides CS and T S , being the distances of Venus and our earth from the sull .
VVe theIl find the log .
cS= 48tS70ges and the log .
T S+997yt8 and the angle at S being t ' 2 ' ; the sum of the twto allgles will be = 174 ' ^G8/ the half of their sum_ 87 ' e9{ and then the computation will be as follows : Log. TS Log. cS 4997758 = 4857O22 I-og tang .
10gl40736 belongs to , At 7 !
30'l Sub4ract 4^5 go 7 , g0 , Log. tang .
9 ' 7 ' 30f ' = gcgo5803 Log. tang .
87 ' 29 ' -11g57018 Log. tang .
semid .
loSS628gt Half the diSerence of the alagles = Half the sum 74 ' 4tt S'8 Angle Sc T -162 ' lOt 5/ t Angle c rlt S.12 47 45. .
Now the angle at Venus being = 162 ' 1o ' 15 " .
Its complement wtill be = o7 ' 49 ' 45 " .
But this is the angle CcG=f cg , fig. 7 , Tab. VI .
and hencewe farther derive the sille --of the aref g= sin.f cx sin.f c g ; wlaence Log. sint 15 ' 19 ' o " = )42X8t66 -F Le3g .
sin. a:7 +9 S --9448t59y623 Log. sin.fg X= 8 , go784gS4 which givesfg = 4 ' 38 ' go " .
Such , therefore , is the length of the arc of a great circle of Vellus over which its twilight extends , as deduced from its appearance to the inhabitants of our globe under the most favourable circumstarlces : and if the true selui-diameter of the planet be assumed = 834 geographical miles , then will the exterst ovf the twilight , in the perpendicular direction from the terlminating border , amount tzo 67 of those miles : and this ex tent of twilight on Venus , which appears to us to measure 4 ' 38'2 , may , with great propriety , be compared ssith what LAMBERT calls the common twilight on our globeg when its border passes immediately through the zenith , at a time when he estimates the place of the sun at 6 ' 23 ' &gt; below our llorizon.@ This computation aSords also the following conclusion : according to the measurement of the r2th of March , 1790 , the projection of the twilight , orf c , fig. 7 , amounted in its whole length to 8't ; hence sin. vcx sin. 7 ' 49 ' 44G " , gives for the true extent of the twilightfc only 2,4r5 secorlds of a degree ; and hence it appears , o. Why this twilight appears only at the points of the cusps and not at other parts of the terminating border , its extenty with its proportiorlably faint light , being too small ; and this narrow faint light being , moreover , eclipsed by the superior brightness of the luminous hemisphere..\NThy this twilight is distinctly seen only a few days before and after the i-nferior conjutlction ; the visible light of the luluinous hemisphere being then only 2 " of a degree in breadth , and only the faint , declining , less luminous part of it apparent to the eJe ; whereas the projection of the twilight p , fig. 7 , will in this position be most extensive , a-tld he-nce the more porceptible .
g. But shollld Venus at this time not be in the sign Aries , IROZ at so high a declination as when I save it in March , 17902 2 LAMBERTES PHOtOm .
S. 998 , sqq .
Berl , Ephem .
for 1776 .
s-o that the sun do not risararld set much earlier and later than the plarlet\#162 ; ; and ssnould ak the sarrle time , our own crepuscular light be very great ; should the planetv I says when the sun is some degrees belout our 11orizon , have no great altitude , it will then be either not seen at all , or only appear in our strong twilight at or near the horizon .
-As , even besides all these favourable circanstarlces , it is moreover requisite that the atl7losphere be uncommonly clear , it cannot be thought extraordinary that this very instructive phaenomenoll , on which I never reflect withaout particular satisfaction , should not have been seen by me sooner in the long and uninterrupted series of observations I have male , but lt M ill rather be allowed to have been a most fortunate combination of incidents which enabled me to observe it for four days successively .
It will al-so appear , 4 .
Why this phe2:zomenoxl did not show itself again after the conjunction wTith the same degree of splendour it did b-efore ; the northern declination of the planet being therl daiily decreasing , and the length and brightness of our twilight as gradually increasing .
This will also point out the reason why it may not be seen again for some time .
The fact , however , being now known to exist , there is no doubt but that some traces of it may , and I flatter myself will , be perceived , even under other perhaps less favourable circumstances .
This discovery , lastly , throws also some light on the constitution of the atmosphere of Rrerlus , and the physical co st-ruction of that planet .
It appears , from the abovementioned observations that however faint the last perceptible degree of evaneiscent light be in this phnomenon , we do not however , evten wSith the keenest eyesight , aided by the very best telescopes , distingllish the final termination of the twilig , ht , but can oaly ascert ; ain the border sYhere its most luminous part:begirls to fade .
If it be then Inathernatically detuonstrated that this rrlore luluillotls part , which may in sonae respects be Lcompared to our OW11 twili-ght , does actually , a few possible but trivial errors in the neasurenlent excepted extelld 40 38 ' So " itltO the dark hemisphere , there CAll be no doubt but that this twillght does , ila its whole extent , approach nearly to the extent of ours , which has been estinzated at 180 ; and that there is hence a material similarity between the two .
TIlis may be inferred from the uncommon brighttless of the -solar light on this planet , and the cotuparatively very bright appearance of the more luminous meastlred part of its twilight , which also accounts forour seeingthis morelllminouspart so distinctly everl in the midst of our own twilight , and perhaps points out why even the pale bluish-grey light which in this , as when as in other proper phases , is seen to terminate the luminous part , forming an evanescent margin of 1 or w seconds , may afford some indication of a twilight gradually blended with the luminous terminating border .
W}len this twilight was measured on the o2th of NZarch , 1790 , soon after six P. Nf .
about twenty-six minutes after sun-set , the sun was at most -only 4 ' below our horizon , and the angle cTS fig. lo Tab. VIIX could according to the above calculations , not measure above 2 47 ' 4S"* Hence it appears thatn under such circumsfances , the evanescent margin at the termitiation of the brighter visible part of the twilight of Venuss was at least as lurnillc)us as our own crepuscilarf atmosphere at that point of the heavens .
And it will also be easily perceived , -utith respect to the much stronger solar light on Ventas , that if those last layers of its atmosphere , on whicln eveil the least vestige of the solar light can be traced , be transferred in idea into the atmosphere of otlr earths adulitting a similar density , but a less power of solar libht they would certainly exllibit no such perceptible tracesO ASld if it be probable , to a degree of evidence , that the twilight on Venus is nearly equal in its extent to that on our globe ; if it be lriathematically proved that its brighr ; er part which has so much lighe as to enable us not only to see its lvut even to measure it across our fainter twilight , illuminates a zone + ' g8 ' sQ't in breadth , we may hence surely infer the density and perpendicular height of at least the inferior more colldensed part of the atmosphere , which is capable of reflecting such a crepuscular light ; and apply those prinGiples according to which the height of our own atmosphere , in as far , rlamely , as its lower strata are able to reflect the solar rays , and occasiotl a twilight , has been estimated at 34s85 toises , or nearly nine geographical miles .
Let akbef 1 , fig. 9 , Tab. VII .
be the surface of Venus ; kb es an arc of it , which , according to the above calculation of the extent of the brightest twilight on the planet , is assumed at 4 ' 38- ' So " ; b d , the height of that denser part of the atmosphere which acttlally occasions the twilight that is visible to us ; and h d , the first ray of the surl , at this time 4 ' 38 ' go " below the horizon , which is reflected by the highest stratum of the denser atmosphere d , upon the point e on the surface of the planet .
NVe thetl have , in the triangle de C3 the side c e , or the senlicliameter of Venus-834 geogr .
miless the right angle e , and the atlgle c= 2 ' 19 ' 15 " , or half the angle b\#162 ; DGCXCI Io X X of the twilight .
Alad the side dc being to ec asdrad .
is to the cousin .
of the angle c , subtract from this -b c/ , th semidiameter of Venus , aid the renzainderg d b , will be the height of the atmosphere .
Notg taking 8g4 geogr .
miles 3178874 toises for the senzidiameter , we have Log g1 78874 = L. 6,3022632 Log cosa 2t e19 ' 15 L.,9996+S6 Iog .
dc= L. 6 , ,go26Ig6 _ z8o4oc : &gt; -b c-3o78874 db= 2oS26 Hence it appears that the perl ?
eadicular height of the inS ferior and more dense part of the atmosphere of Venus , which has the power of reflecting the solar light to stlch a degree , as , under favourable circumstances , to be visible on our globeg where , with a good telescope , it assumes the appearance of a faint ash-colouredrlight , measu+es 2526 toisesa or lSSS Paris feet .
As we are not acquainted with the laws of the inflection of light at the atmosphere of Venus , and are as much in the dark , concerrling that as well as our own tuJilight , whether it be procluced by a simple or compound reflectiv } , this computations it must be owned , is somewhat conjectural , and at best , conditional ; and yet it supplies us with sozne farther means of esti mating the height and ( lensity of the atmosphere of Venus with a somewhat greater precisiotl .
I-f , according to the above principles and computations , it be deterlnitled that the twilight of Venus extends , at least in a. .
; .
considerable proportion , as far as ours ; and if the inferior part of the atm-osphere , as far as a perpetldicular height of ooo feet be so dense as to r &amp; flect SO clear a light upon a zone ex tending 67 geo-gr tniles into the dark hemisphere , that we , at a distance of only 12 ' +7 ' +5 " from the sun , an:l when this luminary -is only from 3 to 4 , degrees belowt the horizon , can see it so di:stitctly and evidelltly as to be able to compare it to our common tsvilig , ht , measuring 6 ' 2g'I , it must follow , that the atnosphere of Venus rises like ours , far above the highest mountains : and although we asc.ribe to that atmosphere the $reatest possible transparency , it will still remaitl a more opake covering tilall5 according to my Selenotopographical Observatic)ns , that of the moon appears to be l'hese observations also point out the probable cause why we clo not see on this our nearest9 prilMary plallet , even 1ll the most favourable circumstances , any of the superficial shades , which , according to all analogy , we have 7t^easorl to suppose orl this , as well as on all the other planetary bodies ; and which , considering the proximity of the planet , we should , when at its mean distance , and with a good HERSCHELLEAN telescope , magnifying : 60 or 70 times , certainly distinguish nearly as plainly as T have seetz , even fwith the naked eye , the superficial shades on the moon , not only the greatest ones , but also some of the lesser , such as Copernicus , Aristarchus , &amp;c. , and surely , fi well as we can discern ) with a proper luminous magnifying power , ... . .
the rrariable faint atmospheric stripes on Saturn-and-Jupiters and the atmospheric opacities on Mars .
At least it appears to mej that the dens &lt; of the lower part of Tenus 's asttuosphere , which enables it tO rEf1EGT SO clear a light into the -dark hemisphere , sufficiently svarrants such a conject-ure : and it may Btell be conceived , that with so dense an atmosphere the very strong light of Venus must occasion a much greater degree of glare , Ethan the soft light of the nloon in a much more rarefied atmosphere .
In ; generaI it appears to me , that whoever will bestow some attention on these observations , and compare them impartially with the many others I have made on the atmospheres of the moon , Jupiter , Saturn , and even the sun , will find a striking coitlcidence between them .
The simple fact , that Venus in its diSerent phases , and esJ pecially at the times of its-greatest elongations , shows a much greater diminution of light at its terminating border than the moon iS IlO doubt , sufficient to point out a much denser atmosphere than that of this satellite .
And this is , moreover } fully evinced by the observations on its twilight .
The circumstance also , that there are seen on this planet none of the flat spherical forms as are conspicuous on Jupiter and Saturn , llOIle of the stripes or longitudinal spots parallel to the equator , which are seen otl these planets and the sun , and which point out a certain stretch of atmospheren gives room to itlfer , that the globe of Venus , with reference to its diameter , and other circumstances of physical-arrangement in its construction , $ performs its rotation round its axis in a much longer space of time than those planets , or the nearly similar ones of our earth and Mars ; and this is ?
ctually confirmed by my olzservations on the diurnal period of Venus .
Thus we see a remarkable coincidence in every respect ; and yet , though we cannot suppose a smallers but rather a greater force of gravity on the surface-of Venus than on our globe , ... # These refierences have already been noticed by Chevalier DE GOI !
PIE , in the 70urnal des Savans for January , 1769 ; and befiore him , by M. DE MA IRA N , in the Me ' moires Anad , for 1/ 29 .
See DE LA LA-NDE'S Astron. S. 3ZI9 and 312Z .
nature seems , hover , to have raised on the former such great inequalities , andtnountaitls of such enormous height , as to exceed 4 , Sn at1(l even 6 times the perpetldicular eletration of Cimbotaco , the highest of our mountaitls .
Thus are we , by these observations ) led to a farther contemplation of the ialmense , and yet analogical variety with which the great Autllor of nature has dignified his works , as well in the greater objects , as in the smallest microscopic atoms ; and the incessant no velty of combinations with which he has adorned them .
On the Atntosphere of the Moonu Referring to my Selenotopographic Fragments for the proofs I there addulced of the real existence of a lunar atmospheres which had been so frequently doubted ; I shall also appeal to the same work for the observations I formerly made on several of its relative properties , compared with the same in our atmosphere , such as its greater dryness , rarityX and clearnessX. .
which , however , do nc)t Xprevent its refracting the solar raysy having pointed out the circumstance that the mountaills in the dark 11emisphere of the moon , near its luminous bordery which are of sufficient height to receive the light of the sunf are the more feebly illuminated the more distant they are from that border : from uthich proofs of a refracting atrIlosphere , I also deduced theprobability of the existence of a faint twilightX which , however , my lollg series of observfations had not-yet fully evinced .
As one fortunate discovery often leads to another , I had no sootzer succeeded in my observations on the twilight of Venust than I directed my attention to that of the moon , and applied the calculations and illferencesI there made , to some appear ances I h$d already noticed on this satellite .
It occurred to me , that if in fact there wgere a tzrilight on the moonS as there is on Venus and our earth , it could not , considering the greater rarity of its atrzlosphere , be so consi(leralble : and that the vestiges of it , allowing for the-brightness of the llltninous part of the moon , the strong light that is thence thrown upon the fielduof the telescope , and itasome measure the reflected light of our earth , could only be traced on the limbt particularly at the CllspS ; and evell this only at the time when our own twilight is llOt strong , but the air very clear , and when the lBoon , in one of its least phases , is in a high altitude , either in thespring , bllowing the sun two days after a new mootl , or in the autumn , tpreceding the sun ill the mottling , with the same aspect : in a word , that the projection of this t ; wilight will be the greater and more perceptible the more falcated the phases and the higher ; the moon above the horizon , and out of our own twilight .
This struck me the more as I recollected having , two years ago , perceived such an appearance at the outward nedge 1lear the points of the cuspss though I did not then reffect on the cause of it .
As Sall the requisite circumstances , llozvever , do not often coincide I thought myself particularly fortunate henn on the 24th of February , I was favoured with a lvicky combination ofthem .
Although this be as yet only a sillgle observation of the sort , it is hourever , in every respect so completen and the inferences it leads to are , to me at least so new and interestilag that I catlnot withhold it from those liberal lninded snelz , who-are zealous in the pulsuit of genuine philosophical knowieclgeO On the abovernentiolled evening , at,5h 40t ) two days and ... t-welare hours aRer the new nzoon , when in consequence of the libratiollt the western border of the grey surface of the Mare Crisium was 1 ' 2OM distant from the western limb of tlize moon , the air being perfectly clear , I prepared my seven-feet reflector , nagnifying seventy-four times , in order to observe the first clearing-up of the dark hemisphere , ullich was illuminated only lie the light of our earth ) and more especially to ascertaill nrhebher in fact this hemisphere which , as is well known , is always somewhat more lumillous at the lirnb than in the niddle , would emerge out of our tw-ilight at many parts at once , or first only at the two cusps .
Both these points appeared now , most distinctly and decidedly , tapering in a very sharp , faint , scarce any where interrupted , prolongation ; each of them exhibiting ?
with the greatest precision , its frthest extreluity fail &lt; t]y illulninated by the solar rays , before ally parl ; of the dark hemisphere could be distitguished .
But this dark hemisphere began soon after to clear up at once at its border , though irnmediately only at the cusps ?
where , butXmore particularltr at their points , this border displayedS on both at the same time , a luminous margin , above a lmirlute in breadth , of a very pale grey light , wllich3 compared sn ith that of the farthest extremities of the cusps themselvess was of a very diSerent co1our , and relatively as faillt as the twilight I discovered oll the dark hemisphere of Venus , and tElat of our own earth , when compared with the light ; immediately derived from the sun .
This light however , faded away so gradually towards the east , as to rellder the border on that side perfectly undefitled , the termination losing itself iinperceptiblyX in the eolour of the sky I examined this light with a]l possible cares and found it of the same extent at both points ?
and fading away at both in the same gradual proportiola .
But I also , with the same cautZion , explored whether I collld distinguish any part of the lirnb of the nzoon farther towards the east ; since ifthis crepuscular light had been the effiect of the light reflected from our globe9 it would undoubtedly haveappeared more sensibly at the parts most remote from the glare of the illuminated helllisphere .
But , with the greatest exertion of my visllal powers , I could notX discover any part of the , as yet , utholly darkened hemisphere , except one single speck , being the summit of the mountainous ridge Leibnitz ) which was then strongly -illuminated by the solar light : and indeed eight minutes elapsed before the remainder of the limh became visible ; when not only separate parts of it , but the whole displayed itself at once .
This al-one gave me certain hopes of AI1 ampIe recolupence , and satisfied me that the principles I had laid down in my Selenotop .
Fragm .
S $2ss seqq .
concerning the atmospheres of the planets , and especially of the zmoon , are founded on truth .
But a similar observation made on the 6th , after searen o'clock , afforded me several collateral circumstances , w ?
hich strongly corroborate what I have there advanced on this subject .
The whole lilnb of the dark hemisphere illuminated only by the reflected light of our globe , appeared now so clear and distinc-t , that I could very readily discern not only the large , but also the smaller spots , and among these Plato Aristarchus , Menelaus , IvIanilius , wCopernicus , &amp;c. and even the small speck to the north-west of Aristarchus , marked b , Tab. XXVII .
fig. 1 .
of the Fragnlentsb I could apply the usual power magnifying z61 times ; and had fiull leisure , and the neans to e:xamine every thing carefully and repeatedly , and tv take very accurate measurements .
Although a just ideaoiS sc ) delicate a phnornenon as this crepuscular light cannot p-ossibly be conveyed by a:drawing , but must be gathered from actual inspection , I have nevertheless attempted a delineation of its and of the southernand eastern cusps fig. 1 and 2 Tab. VIII .
as deduced from nzy measurements , especially at the -southern cusp , in hopes thereby to render what I have farther to say collcerning this observation the more intelligible .
The soutilern cusp , fig. .
extetlded from a to c , with a gradually facling but still resplendent solar light , of its usual pale yellow colour ) and ternainated at c with a mountain .
That this was really the poirt of the cusp , appears not only from the gerleral const:ruction of the falcated segment , which was sufficiently narrow even at its beginning a , near which it uTas somewhat disfigured at b by a high Jnoulatain ; but also from the laarrowness of its lllminous curve at de and f , the -breadth of which seldom exceeded " , and had a sensible interruption so near as d. This curve was throughout , from a to c , except where the glare of the solar rays spread some gdegree of light , bordered with the pale ash-colour of the idark hemisphere , glimmering with the faint light reflected from our earth , out of which , however , rose the higher mountains g , h , iX c , which were now already illuminated by the sun ; and farther con , not less than thirty lines , or , according to my vlsu-al pro3-ection , tvo minutes3 di$tant from the point c , wasr seen anothex mountain 1 , which belorlged to the high ridge Leibzitz ) and also received its light immediately from the sun Tllere can hence be no ^doubt of the termination of the cusp I)ting at c : and this being well ascertained I now distin guished with the greatest certainty the tsvi]ight extending from c to k. The most remarkabIe circumstances attending this J ; g ; ht were , that it was broadest and brightest at c , and that it dwiildled away and contracted towards k , where it lost itselE in the fain-t glimlnering of our terrestrial Jight ; and that at the nor-them cusp , Eg .
2 ) at which there do laot appear to be so marly ulountains and inequalities as at tl:at soutllertl , this light exhibited the same pyramidal form and was oiS equal length , and alike fading lrs intensity and colour , as that { gt the southern .
This lig ; ht , compared vjJith that of the thinnest and lea$t brigsllt part of the cusp d c ) Vas as faint as the pale ash coloured spots in the lulninous hemisphere , hen opposed to the bright ones But this is st ; ill better illustlated by a comparison betwreen the high mountain / fig. , which 11OW already appeared illutninated Jby the solar light aad the SpQt Aristarchus , which sholle moderately merely with the light reflected from our globe .
The said mountain hadn comparatively with the thin luminous arc def of the bright heulisphere , and the nlount-ains gn b , is cg a very lpale , fading , but yet brighter light than Aristarchusy as indeed might have been expected from what I said in my SelerlotsDp .
Fragm* ; but this reflected light upon Aristarcllus was however sensibly brighter than the glirzlmerilg light -from c to k Alad respect ing the still fainter terrestrial liht which bordered the luminous curve from c to k , fig. o and I cannot give a better idea of it than by observing , that the light at the extreinities of both the cusps appeared of a pyratnidal ; tortn similar to but though gradually fading and very undefined , yet brighter than that of our zQcliacal light , uthen in the months of March and April it blends itselfg comparatively with the remainitzg colourof the skyg vitil the terrestrial lights terminating inXa very sharp point .
the undefined and gradually fading appeararlce of this lighe was the cause that though I had recourse to a ciark projection tablt , I could not , howevers take anyz accurate measurements o\#163 ; z. I found nevertheless , by repeated comparisons , that the lellVll of this pyrainidal glilllrnering light in which I could perceixre lao serlsible inequality at the litmLb of the moonaluounted to about 3 of the dlstarLce between the two mountains c ) 1 fig. ) w } &lt; ich shone sarith the -solar lighe Comparing also this southern twilight with the northerll , it appeared of the saule length ; and on measuring the distance c 19 I foulzd it repeatedly-go lines = 2 ' ; SO that the length of the twilight must have almounted to o lines_ t estt .
Its greatest breadth at c could , on the c &gt; hand because of the extent and greater density of its light be easily ascertained by means of the itnluediate application of the projection tablec This measurement garre at most 3 of a line , or full 21t .
Although I be positively Crtaill of this very rerllarkable ap pearance at both cusps , and of its perfect similarity in all my observations ) I told aot howe0rer- &gt; trace any vestige of a like-crepuscular light at any other part of the terrninating boraler:+ nor could I orl the ver-y next earetling , being the eStl and also on the 26th of February ) perceiveX everl at the cusps , any of the twilight I expectel to see there ; the very thin , fairuts lulllitlC &gt; uS line wThich did : illdeed appear on the e6th at the $outherrl cusp between a and b fg .
$ , being urldoubtedly the effect of the immediate sol-ar light , probably illumizating some prominent , flat area as yet situated in the dark hetnisphere .
Thus far the o-Sservations : and now tor the appliGation of them .
I need hardZy insist 1lpon the pr-ooEs , that the very fctint pyramidal glimmering light , observed on the 24th of FebruaryS at the efxtremities of both cusps , could by no means be that imme dlate effiect of the solar lightn all the circumstances of the observatlons militating uniformly and decidedly agaitlst this suppositi-on , which , were it true , would ohlige us to adlzlit a most unaccountable diminution of light , and thence also a dellsity of the lunar attnosphere , that , rght to exceed even the cletlsity of ours ; a fact absolutely contradicted by all the lunar observations hitherto made .
Ithis light , indeed , was SQ very faint , that it disappeared at 7h 201 , when the moon approac.lled the harizon ; whilst , on the other halad , Aristarchus , which had no light but what it received from the earth , was still very distinguishable ; and the summit of Leibnitz 1 , figS lD ( which , though far within the dark hemisphere , was , howeverg illumitlated by the immediate solar rays3 displayed a degree of brightrless which , althoubh when compared n7ith that of the cusp d of , it appeared rrery faint and dwindling equalleci , 11ourever , that of our Pic of Teneriffe .
Nor can it be conctived why this glim-mering light broke of so suddenly at both the cusps , without a progressive diminution .
It can hardly be supposed that similar , grey , prominent , flat areas , of the same form and dimensions , and comparatively=of a faint lightg which , whilst in the dark hemisphere5 : they derive imtnecliately from the sun , exist otl all-parts of the rxloon ; more especially as at the places observed , the linab happened to exhibit throughout an exact spherical forms without the least sen$ible inequality ; and as ill both the bordering regiotls of the rlorthern and southern hemispheres , especially in the latter no such grey , prominent platles are any uthere discernible .
It may then be asked why did this fidillt glimmering light appear at both cusps , along equal arcs of the limb , of equal length asld breadth , and of the same pyramidal fbrm ?
and why did its firther extremity blend itself with the terrestrial light of the dark hemisphere , which according to a great number of my selenotopographic obwrvations , is by no means the caw , even with those grey prominent areas hich , being at some distance on the dark side of the terminating borcler , are nevertheless illuminated immediately by the sun ?
These , therefore } could certainly not derivebtheir light imtnediately from the sun ; whence this appearance like the similar otles on the planet Venus can only be aKscribed to the solar rays reflected by the atluosptlere of the moon upc !
n those planes producing on them a very faint ) gradually diminishing , fimmering light which at last loses itself in the reflected terrestrial light , in the same marlner as our twilight blends itself with the light of the moon .
Every cirnmstance of the above observation seetns to me to cotlfirm this supposition ; and hence the observation itself , which , thougl l single , was however a most fortunate and complete one , must appear of no small degree of importance , sinw it not only cotlfirms the observations and inferences on the long contested lunar atmosphere cotltained in my Selenotop .
Fragm .
but also furnishes us with many more lights concerning the atmosphere of planets in getleral than had Wen affiorded us by all thow obserarations collectively .
This , ^and the mathematical certaillty that the phtnomenon is , in fact , nothing but areal tuZilight in the lunar atmosphere , will be fartherJevinced by the following theoretical deductions , in which the same mode of computing as was used in the obserarations on Venus , will be adopted with this dlf ference , that the anglef c g , fig. 7 , Tab. VI _Ac F , is -equal to the angle Dc E , or the geocentric elongation of the moon from the sun .
1 .
According to the above observatior we find that the twilight at both cusps tneasuredn from c to k fig. 1 and 2 , Tab VIII .
go lines= llw go/ .
The apparent diam. of the moon being at 6h p. M.-So ' 18 ' ; whence the twilight must have exter}ded over ala arc of the limb rtleasuring 4 ' SS 23tt ; and9 if the real diam. of the inoon be assumed at 465 geogr miless this extent must have answered toj 194 of these tniles .
2 .
But we have seen that:c , fig. 7 , Tab VI .
or the naea sured projection of the twilight is by no means the true dis tance of its farther edge f from the terlninating border gc Tlais distance , therefore , must be found by the following coln Jputation : Long. of the moon Feb. -24 , 6h p. Mt-gs yo g9 ' 22tt tong .
of the sun =* 52 22e DiSerenGe of Long. = &lt; t 47 o Sl 47 O Latittlde of the moon _o 22 17 Log.cos .
31t47t ot = L.g5ggg+4g + Logs cos. Q 22 s7 _ L. g &gt; ggggo8 Log. , disto of X from the O L. 9s9e94q3 Sl 47 7 Thus was the above the amount of the anglef\#162 ; gt fig. 7 ; and as the sin. of the arcf g= sill.f cx sin.f c g , tXhen Log sitl.fc L 4t 5g 23 = L. 8g3oG436 +Log.sin.fcg_ L.31 4y 7_ L.g,721Sg4t L. sin fg= 8,6Se378 which gives fg= 2 ' &gt; 34 w246 " Whence I infir , that the breadtll of the lunar twilight kom the terrninating border to where it lows itwlf in and assumes the faint appearance of ; the light reflected fFom our earth , measures itl a direction perpendicular to the aforesaid border , -2 ' 34/ GS'tv equal to a breadth of lQs lines } or 103 geogr .
nliles. .
8 .
: s &gt; 8r 9 ; .
Hetlce , mitting that the lawTs of these inflection of light are the same in the moon as on our earth and Venus , it will be easy to compute the perpetldicular heigElt of the illferior and more dense part of the lunar aAmosphere b d , fig. 9 , Tab. VIl .
; the angle c , in the rigat angled triang ; le dc e , _ 1 ' X 7/ 6tt and the radius bc 234 geogr .
miles or 8919t , toises , being glven ; w } aence Iog rad .
X-L .
89191+-L .
S9S03210 ljog .
cos. 17 ' 611 = 1 .
9,9998908 5n9Jo+302 = 8921p bs-8 DS4 dh= : 226 So that the inferior more denw part of the moons atmosphere , measures , i2 } wrpendiculat heightg not more than 226 toi^s , or 13 Paris ket ; that inirior part , natlaely , which refleets so much of the solar light into its dark he rnispluereas produces a twilight more luminous than the light reflected upon its stlrEace from the earth , when it is only git 47 ' 9tt from its opposition to the moon , when consequentlys it shows the greatest part of its diskX illuminated , and affiords some degree of light to the rlights in the moon .
A cursory survey of these computationsX shows that they not only contribute to illustrate the observationsX but also that they coincide so fully with the collateral circumstances , as still farther to confirm those observations .
1 .
r was well aware , even at the time I made the observations , that the lunar twilight must , as it actually didn appear in the form of a lengthened pyralnid .
Atld indeed the yth fig. Tab. VI .
which represents the twilight c kn gf , F b , lefore the conjurlction , projecting from thetcusps towards the west , clearly points out , that only its pyramidal part cf k could be visible at T , whilst the who]e remainder of it Fg cJh ex tended over the whole hemisphere of the mootl AFDE Cv which was turned avv-ay from the eye of the observer 2 .
It appeared to me , on the other hand , before I had suffi ciently reflected oll these collateral circumstances , that it could not well be reconciled to theory , that this twilightg uthose length from c tof measured go lines , should at c k , where its breadtIl was the greatest not be broader than , or at most 3 of a line .
I soon , however ) rernoved the difficulty by the follow. .
ing deduction .
Frotn the above computation , it appears that thesidefg=kc , or the distance offk , the fartheredge Of the twilight from the terminator g C3 was = lo , lines , or an arc of 2 ' 34 ' tts But the arc kc =fg* , or the greatest visible breadth of the ttilight did not latr , like the side tc , alollg the edge of the limb , but nearly at right angles to it , in a direction imrnediately tending towards the eye : whence its orthograplaic pnoJection could by no means amount to 'S lines , but musty according to well known principles , be less in the proportion of the sine of 2 ' g4t t21 ' to the cosine = lo , S , whence by the follouting computation Log. k c-f g= L. 1o,5 = L+ .
2 , o2o o89tS K Log. sin. &gt; 34 ' 12tt = L. 8,6S166+8 -L os Tllis greatest apparent breadth of the twrilight at the cusps could not , therefore , exceed 'S lines , or full twto secontls ; and this in fact was the bleeadth given it by the observation .
It is scarce possible , that in the determination of SQ nice an oW}ect theortr should coincide more accurately with observation. .
But itSappears farther from these observations , why , not withstanding all the pains I took , I could perceive nothing of this twilight at the terminating border of the falcated phaset and why , oll the succeeding evenings this light disappearedlikewise at the cusps .
The brightness of the phase will , evert on the first days after the new moon occasion a strong glare ln the field of the telescope , and Xthis particularly at the spherical borders ternzinating the light ; so that the nzargin COlltiguous to this borders which is only illuminated by the light reflected from the earth , lmay , indee-d , appear luminous but must necessarily be very undefined .
The smaller the pllase , moreover , the less ; will be the projection of the twilight at the terminating border , so that on the third day after the new moon it cannot well amount to much more than 2at at the cusps ; and it\\Tsll then be so far obscured by the stronger uDCCXCI Is z z light of the illulrlinated hemisphere as to be almost evanescentU The best illustration of this , and of the kllown fact that in the broader phases the twilight w ?
ill , oll accoullt of the strong ; cotltrasting light of the lutninous part , vanish eveil at the cusps , is given by the spots Manilius and Menelaus .
Both are situated near the centre of the hetnisphere turl1ed tosvards our earth ; botlsl have considerable diameters ) the one of 24 and the ot:her of betnreell 14 and 16 seconds , and both appear very distinctly on the third day after the nesr mootla vitll a degree of light rather surpassing that of the twilight .
These spots9 howeverX notBtithstanding their great diameters , vanish 011 ac count of the increasing glare of light ) so s08n as four days after the new moonX although they be then still at some distance from the terminal ; ing border^ How could , therefore , a faint light , tneasuring only e- " in breadth , be visible on the third day after a newt moon , at the terulinating border ?
And how S could it at the fourth day still appear distitlctly at the hright cusps , w1aere it is , indeed , of a more considerable extent , but still musts in consetuence of its pyramidal forrll , soon dwindle -away into a very narrow tapering stripe ?
This ?
moreover , was precisely the case in the many observations I made or the planet VenusX From theiabove calculations it also appears , that the lower and more dense part of the lunar atmosphere , that part , namely , which has the power of reflectilag this bright crepuscular light , is only 356 Paris feet in height ; ^and hence it will easily be explained how , according to the different libiations of the moon , ridges of mountains even of a moderate height , situated at or near the tertninating border , may par * See Selenot .
Fragm , S. 53X .
tially-interrupt , or , at timess wholly prevent this crepuscular lght , either at one or the other cusp , and sometirnes at both .
I cannot hence but consider the discovery I here announw as a very fortunate one , both as it appears to me decisive , and as it may induce future observers to direct their attetation to this pllaenonlenon .
Admitting the validity of this new obsertation , svhicll , I thinli , callnot well be called in quesxion , I proceed now to deduce from it the following inferences. .
It confirms , to a degree of elriderleJe , all the seletzotopograpllic observations I have been so successful as to make , on the various and alternate charlges of particular parts of the lulaar atmoslJhere .
If the inferior and more dense part of this atmosphere be in fact ) of sufficient density to reflect a tw ; lig ; ht over a zone of the dark hemisphere gQ 34J , or 104 geogr .
miles in breadth , which shall in intensity exceed the light re flected upon its dark hemispilere by the almost wholly illu minated disk of our earth ; and if , by an incidental computation , this dense part be foutld to tneasure rgG6 feet in per pendicular height it lnayj according to the Wstrictest analogyn be asserted , that the upper , and gradually more rarefied strata , must , at least , reach above the highest mountains ill the moon .
And this will appear the more eviclent , if ute reflect that , not withstanding the inferior degree of gravitatiola orl the surface of the mooll , which NEVVTON has estitnated at somewhat less than &lt; 6 'f that lon our earth , the lower part of its atmosphere is , nevertheless , of so considerable a density .
This considerab]e density will , there/ fore , fully account for the diminution of light vbserared at the cusps , and on the high ridges Leibnits and l ; :)oerfel when illuminated in the dark hemisphere ; a-s also for the several obscurations and returning serenity , the eruptions , and other changes I have frequently observed in the lunar atmosphere .
This observation also implies , .
That the atmosphere of the moon is , notwithstanding this considerable density , much rarer than that of our earthX And this , indeed , is sufficiently confirmed by all our other lunar observations .
I think I nway assert with the greatest confidence , that the clearer part of our twilight , when the sun is 4 ' belov our horizoll , and when we can convenietltly read and write by the light we receive from it , surpasses considerably in intensity the light whi( &gt; h the almost w^rholly illuminated disk of our eartil xeflects upon the dark hemisphere of the trloon 22 days before and after the new rnootl .
But should wte even ac1Wmit an equal degree of intensity , it will , however , appear from computatiall that our inferior atmosphere , which reflects as strong ae lig ; ht over 4 ' as that of the moon does over 2 ' 34 ' of their respective circumferencesg must be at least eight times higher than that of the moon .
g. The striking dimintltion of light I noticed , in uly twelve years observations on Vetlus , likewise indicates that the atmosphere of that planet , which is in many sespects similar to ours , is nauch dehser than that of the moon ; and this will be still farther corrolsorated , if re compare together the several measurenlelats and computatiotas made concerning the twilights of different planets .
rrhere is no doubt but that the faintest twilight of Venus , as seen either before or after the rising and setting of the sun across our twilight , is much brighter than that of the moon ; and it appears , moreover , from computation , that the denser part of the atmosphere of Venus measures at least a,5ooo Paris feet in height , and spreads its twilight 67 geogr .
miles into the dark hemisphere , whilst the denser part Of the lunar atmosphere , whose height does not exceed 3G6 feet , produces a faint twilight not above 103 geogr .
miles in breadth Thus , as my successful obserrations on the twilight of Venus led me to the discovery of that of the moon , so did these latter reciprocally confirm the former : and thus , which ever vay we contetuplate the subject , must we be struck with the coincidence that prevails throughout .
4 .
BvIt if the lllnar-atmosphere be comparatively so rare , it follows that the inflection of light produced by it cannot be very considerable ; and hence does the computation of M. DU SEJouR , according to which , the inflection of the solar rays which touch the moon , amoutlts to no rtlore than 4tt29 receiere arl additional degree of authenticity.* Besides which , 5 .
As the true extent of the brightest lunar twilight amounts to 2Q 34 ' , the obliquity of the ecliptic in the moon only to w ' 29 ' ; the inclination of the orbit of the moon , on the cortrary , to ' ' , and its synodic period , during which it performs a revolution round its axis is = 29d 12h ; it follows , that its brig ; htest twilight , to where it loses itself in the light reflected by the almost fully illuminated disk of our earth must , at least at its nodes , last sh 3 ' , and that it will be still lotlger at other parts of the orbit , according to the situation of the. .
nodes .
6 .
And lastly , it being a well known factX that the fixed stars , as thg approach the mooll , diminish in splendour at the most only a very few seconds before their occultationsJ it was natural for me , afier the successful observations I had made on the twilight of the luoon , to pay particular attentlon to this circumstance .
0n the 2tSth February , at 6h p. M. the sky belg very clear , the linlb of the dark part of the luoon appeared tlcotumonly distinct ; and only a few seconds of a degree from its eelge was seen a telescopic star , of about the goth or lgth magnitude .
I counted full 20'1 before its occultation , and xXf of these , without the least perceptible diminution of light .
The stars hourever , began now gradually to fade , and after the remailling 1"2 , duriIIg which I observed it with all poslble attention , it vanished in an instant .
This observation agrees perfectly with the above computations Although it be proved that the inferior dense part of the lunar atmosphere reflects a stronger l-ight than that which the dark hemispilere receives from an almost fully illuminated disk of our earth ; and although , considering the lnferiority of gravitation on the surface of the moon , there be no doubt that this dense part , together vwZith the superior gradually more rarefied regions of its atmosphere , must extend far aboure its highest mountains ; it is yet a fict that the breadth of this observed twilights to where it loses itself in our reflected terrestrial light , does not measure more than 2 ' 34 : it is therefore , highly probable that its greatest extent , in the most farrourable phases near our new moon , can rlever exceed the double of the above arc , or ^5 ' 8 ' ; and hence we can only infer a perpetldicular height of an atmosphere , capable of inflecting the solar rays , which at most measures SS76 feet : nor is it very likely that unless accidental and llitherto unl &lt; nown circumstances should occasionally condensediffierent parts of this atmosphere , these upperstratashould materially affect the distincttless of a star seen through ito But admitting the height of the atmosphere , which nzay aiect the brightness of a fixed star ) not to be less than GS76 faeet ) this will amourlt to an arc of only o , g4 " , or not quite one second ; and as the lnootl describes an arc of " in 2 " of timen it fbllovs that in general the fadilag of a star , which approaches to an occultatiotzX cannot last quite 2tt in time ; that ilS the appulse be at a part of a lilmsb of the moon where a ridge of mountaills interferes , the gradual obscuration will last a still shorter time ; and that it may , 1lnder some circumstances of this ature , , be even instatltaneous .
Slltplenzent to the foregoixg Obserscltions on the Stmostbere of the Moon .
The following observation of an occuItation of Jtlpiter by the moon , when near its fiully occurred to me by m@re accidentj orl the yth of Aprilg a 792 ; and I xvas the more gratified by it as I had long wished for an opportunity tQ observe such a pllxnomenon , and had no expectation of seeing it at this time , no mention being made of it in the Ephemerides .
Tlre sky being very serene , and Jupiter uncommonly bright , I prepared my seven-feet reflector , magnifying 74 times , in hopes that the strorlg light and distinctness it afforded would enable me to compare the appearances of this phxnomenon with the results 0vhich I had deduced from my late observations on the height and derlsity of the atmosphere of the moon .
Fig. Tab. IN : .
represents the situation of Jupiter 's four satellite$9 as they appeared , most distinctlyt two of them to the westward , the second about one , and the first near two of Jllpiters diameters distarst from its limb ; and the two otlwers to the eastward , the third about seven , and the fourth near eight of the same diameters , distant from the osaid limb .
Fig. 2 .
shows Jupiter , with its belts , and of a somewhat -spheroidical form , as it now appeared to me , and as distinctly as I had ever seen it .
The equatorial belt , from a to d , was very apparent .
It consisted properly of two zones , a 6 , and\#163 ; d , of a brownish-grey colollr , with a more luminous interEval b c , between them .
At e andfwere two comparatively well defined stripes , hicla I had noticed for many years back , but which now crossed the whole disk ; arsd the polar regions appeared again , from g and h , more dim and grey than the bright p-art of the planet .
But what particularly struck me , were two nebulous undefined spots } z and k , which were sensibly darker than the prlrlcipal zone d d ; and at 1 , a still more remarkable , circular , though imperfectly defined spc)t , somewhat brighter than the lutninous interval between the zones , and perfectltr similar to the remarkable lllminous spot which I had obserared in r 786 and z787 , on the same part of Jupiter , and which then led me to some very unexpected inferences concerning $he atmosphere of that planet.* These favourable circumstances led me to the following accurate observation , which I was certain would prove instruc tive to me .
At loh 40t Sott , I saw the spot i at about the middle of its parallel ; and immediately after began the occultation than which a more distinct and beautiful one was perhaps never seen .
Imglersions .
The westerll , preceding , first satellite disappeared behind the shsl-rp bright limb of the moonn at xoh,3t 2.-t N. B. There may here haxte beeta\#163 ; 1 error of tWQ or three seco &lt; ds , as the satellite becatne illdistitlct at the limb .
The second satellite disappearedX withollt beconaing at all sndistinct exactly at xoh 4^51 o9l/ .
The western limb of Jupiter came in colltactX most disti*ctiy with the eastern litub of the moon ) at loll 4,6 ' 32"S5 .
Jupiter 's eastern lilab disappeared , as distinctly cat loh 48t sot ' , sS .
N. B. This imulersion took place , as represented in fig. $ , to tl:we eastw-ard of Aristarchus , at about the 24th degree of N. Iat. .
The third satilite disappeared , anfter having been for about3 one or two seconds faillt and i &lt; distinct , at aoh , S8t , g7 " , S. The fourth satellite , which appeared the least of thenz-aII , became undiscernible near the limb , , and vallished at about th 2t 16/ t N. 13 There may have been an error of four or five seconds. .
Emersionse The two preceding first and second satelnlites were here likF wise of use in determining precisely the emersion of both the limbs of Jupiter , from the dark hemisphere of the moon .
The first appearance of Jupiter 's western limb was very dis tinct at 1lh 43t 54f Emersion of the easterrlXlimb , as distinct , at th 4SS.39"Sse N. B This emersion took place , as represented in fig. 4 , to the rlorth-eastward of Seneca ( B , Tab VIII .
oftheFrag .
) , at about the 23d degree of N. lat -lshe emersion of the next ) or third satelliteg was llot observed .
That of the fourth was distinct , at 1 th 59t 11/ This observation gave me the naore satisfaction , as it singularly contrsbuted to confirm the discovery I had been so fortunate as to make of the tvvlilight in tlwe moon , and the height and density of the lower stratum of its atmosphere EXPerZenCe 11aS sUffiCient1Y PrOved , that a StrOnger s^ ?
ill ever SCUrC a fainter 1ighT ; and it fO110\VS T1enCe , that the light Of a bright Star aPPrOaChirLg The mOOY1 When fiU11 , Or neArlY SO7\ViI1 ; 10Se SOIMeth ; g Of itS IUStre : bUt 1itTle CAn be : irRfierred in faVOUr Of an atmOSPhere eiThEr Of the mOOn , Or Of MarSY frO1n the ObSerVatiON Of CASSINI , in which , as Dr HERSCHEL has illustrated bY some observations Of his own , * a star in Aquarius , of the sixth magllitude ) and as yet -six tninutes distant frOm Mars , diminished in light when both were seen in the same field Of the telescope .
A mere apparent diminution of light , occasioned by the glare of a large ; er luminous objects wthen seen at the same time with a smaller one , in the field of the telescope , is one thing ; and another thing is a real iadistinctness of the small lulminous body , which increases in proportiot as they approach nearer to each other .
Te was very natllral for Jupiter to diminish in brightneB , when it approached so near to the moon , then almost atits full , as to be 1seen at the sanae timein the field of the telescope , which was , in fict , the circumstance of this obseraration ; but I could not observe any progressive variation of light in the eastern and western , equa ] lie luminous , disks proportioal to their distances from the lilnb of the moon , tnllch less a real illdistinctness ; and this neither ss-hela the limbs cf the two lzlatlets were nearly in contact , nor when Jupiter was partly5 or abotlt one half , covered by the moon It sras a sight truly gratifying to an eye accustomed to the light of the ltoon or in general to similar observations , ; to behold hov Jupiter , at its immersion , as well as emersion , being half , or more than half , covered by the moon exhibited its .
-i3elts and other parts , as diStinGtly , close to the litnb of the znoon , as it does at someZdistance from it and had I not a1 ready succeeded in my numerous observations on the atmosphere of the moon and very recetltly in those which enabled me to -determine its twilight , I should perhaps have adopted the doubts the anclent astronomers entertained concerning the existence of a lunar atmosphere ; and tliis the rather , as when Jupiter , in its immersion } was so far covered , that the luminous spot 1 , fig. , was close to the moon I ( old plainly distin guish this spot alth:ough it be in itself bfr no lueans very perceptible .
Such , hoRNever , must have been the appearalltes , according to my new observations and measurelnents of the twilight of the moorw : for lf it be proved that the extent of this twilight3 , to xvhere it loses itself in th light reflected firona the almost wholly illulainated diskSof our earth amounts to no razore than an-arc of 2 ' , of the cwircumference of the moon , and if it be hence flenzonstrable that its greatest dilatation does barely amount to S ' 8 ' and the perp-endicular heighe of that part .
of the lower more condesed stratun of its atnosphere , which is capable of reflecting the solar rays , and of producing some other , perhaps more remarkab}e , obscurities in the stars seenthrough it , does not exceed 5300 Paris ke ) and 11ence cannot reach above one second of a degree abolre the litnb of the moon ; \\ ?
need -not nTonder that so sxmall a tuagt-aitude , which loses itself in the inequalities of the litnb , ma2ay parts of which are knov : In to be considerably m:ountainotls , should uot beconae sensible , especially at the approach of a body of so large a diameter as Jupiters and wllel so sanall a magnifying pcower is appliedv And thus may I , with cozfidence , assert a perfect coircidellceI)etween this and ny manJr other Obla servationse Tlle appe ; arazace , fig. , &gt; Zhera Jupiter at the emersion , the objects being particularly sharp and distinct came forth from behilld themoon wthich now covered no more than one quarter of its d:iatu-eter , was truly splendid and satisfactory ; andvI must here particularly luention the circumstance , that the part of the nlOOn'S dark hetnisphere , between its bright terminating edge mn arud its outward limb , bordering upon the emerging planet op ) was particularly opake , and hence produced a very strikig effect .
I omit entering-here upon any farther considerations , and shall conclude with observing that , afXter the occultation was completely en(led , the luminous spot I hadl at 12h r !
so far advanced in its parallel de as to have reached to within 6n or at -most ^ , of its xvhole length9 of the westerrl limbv And that ff Le f. .
t. .
r tif/ &amp; / 'Z a'= -_ b ( , ( ( / f ' '0 ; 18 0 J/ X ; lS Ii -o 6 .
b a.so s_c ffiorth &gt; 6M_ , t\ 4 * &lt; , z 5 S.rs S S , ba f\ 1 ' 2/ f a , __- : &lt; ... ... .
_ .
, , , _ .
; &gt; &gt; A ' .
A aVCt::Cy C ]|Nozth , :Moorhw XGc T. e Jt moZen=g eoXHe o &gt; .
__ 2 .
&gt; Are \#163 ; rLCT v-WF PAc 70 Zrandw MDC C XC II .
Cab .
VNl.p .
3 60 .
c/ / .
2 .
, J_rA _ : tiL 27 &gt; = } : _LS -| cs fi 47 e3 .
Or a. .
HsfJfe .
e. - &lt; C ' .
on the 28th of March , lSve days after a new moon , I observed an occultation of a very distinct , though telescopic star , by the dark hemisphere of the moon , in which , agreeably to the above observation , not the least gradual diminution of light , or indistinctness could be perceived , the star being seen to vanish on a sudden .
Li3ienthal , Apr ; l IO , I , 9t .

