84 Mr. J. Cameron .
Development of the Retina [ Feb. 6 , " On the Development of the Layers of the Eetina in the Chick after the Formation of the Optic Cup .
" By John Cameron , M.B. , Ch. B. ( Edin .
) .
Communicated by Professor McIntosh , F.E.S. Eeceived February 6 , \#151 ; Eead March 20 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The inner wall of the retinal cup in a 4th-day chick has exactly the same structure as the wall of the embryonic cerebral vesicles or spinal cord at the same stage of development .
Thus all the structures which His has described in the wall of the embryonic spinal cord can be also recognised in the inner wall of the retinal cup , and may therefore receive similar names .
( 1 .
) A network ( the myelospongium ) , which is produced by the union of the processes of cells called spongioblasts .
The outer and inner extremities of the myelospongium network fuse to form the external and internal limiting membranes respectively ( the external limiting membrane of the retina corresponds to the internal limiting membrane of the embryonic spinal cord or cerebral vesicle as it is next to the .
cavity of the original optic vesicle ) .
( 2 .
) In the meshes of the myelospongium are two kinds of cells\#151 ; -1st , germinal cells , which are found only under the external limiting membrane ; 2nd , neuroblasts , which are formed from division of the germinal cells and give rise to the ganglion cells and the cells of the inner and outer nuclear layers ( the cells of the outer nuclear layer are the youngest cells of the retina ) .
Up to the 8th day , the inner wall of the retinal cup grows greatly both in thickness and surface area .
On the 8th day of incubation the internal molecular layer appears , and on the 9th day the external molecular layer .
These two layers first show themselves in the central point of the retinal , cup , and extend forwards in all directions towards the anterior margin of the cup .
The outer and inner molecular layers do not extend into the anterior one-fourth of the retinal cup , and this portion shows the simple arrangement seen before the 8th day ; but in the posterior three-quarters , the external and internal nuclear layers and the ganglion cell layer are mapped out by the two molecular layers .
During the 8th day a rearrangement of the myelospongium occurs , and consists in the lateral offshoots of the fibres being absorbed for the most part in the region of the future internal nuclear layer ; but in the region of the internal molecular layer the network becomes finer and much denser , and thus pushes the cells away on either side of it .
The internal molecular layer appears before any processes from the ganglion cells or the internal nuclear layer have grown into it , and 1902 .
] in the Chick after the Formation of the Optic Cup .
85 therefore its first appearance is not due to the growth of the processes from these cells into it .
The three streaks which develop in the internal molecular layer are due to a denser texture of the myelospongium at these places , on either side of which the fine arborisations from the cells in the ganglion layer and internal nuclear layer tend to accumulate . .
, .
, The first appearance of the external molecular layer is explained as follows:_The myelospongium fibres bifurcate near their outer ends and neighbouring branches fuse with one another , so that the external molecular layer has at first an irregular outline .
Later on , when the retinal wall becomes thinner , then this layer has a straighter outline The persisting radial fibres of the myelospongium become the fibres of Muller .
, .
In the internal nuclear layer , three kinds of cells can be distinguished at the 12th day of incubation : 1st , a single row of cells with clear nuclei , which lie next to the external molecular layer ( basal cells ) ; 2nd , several layers of small bipolar cells with external and internal processes passing into the external and internal molecular layers respectively ; 3rd , a set of cells , usually arranged in three rows and giving off processes into the internal molecular layer ( amacrine cells ) .
From the 10th to the 12th day the ganglion cells spread out to form one layer , and the bipolar cells of the internal nuclear layer also spread out so that the retina becomes thinner .
At the 10th day two kinds of cells can be recognised in the external nuclear layer\#151 ; 1st , cells which extend from the external limiting membrane to the external molecular layer , and are of the same breadth throughout ( the rod cells ) ; 2nd , cells which taper towards the external molecular layer ( the cone cells ) .
The rods and cones develop on the 12th day as outgrowths from these cells .
The rods , however , appear a little earlier than the cones , and form globular projections which soon become flask-shaped .
One cone-element appears usually between two flask-shaped rod-elements , and are therefore forced to assume a cone shape , but from them a fine filament is forced between the rod-elements and forms a minute spherical swelling immediately beyond .
In most of the rod and cone cells a spherical body can be seen lying between the nucleus and the external limiting membrane on the 14th day .
The rods and cones increase in length , due to protrusion of more and more protoplasm from the rod and cone cells , and this spherical body ( the rod and cone ellipsoid ) is borne along with the later protrusions of protoplasm and comes to occupy the inner segments of the rods and cones .
Thus the outer segments of the rods and cones are the first to be protruded and lastly the inner segments .
The oil globule develops in the protruded portion of the cone-element on the 15th day , and becomes coloured red or yellow on the 17th or 18th day .
When first developed the rods about equal the cones in number , whereas 86 Prof. H. E. Armstrong .
[ Mar. 5 , in the adult bird the cones are most numerous .
Some of the bipolar cells from the internal nuclear layer emigrate through the external molecular layer , and develop into young cones .
These investigations on the retina led to an inquiry as to what relationship there might be between the rod and cone cells , and the ciliated epithelium of the cerebral ventricles , and it is found that these are homologous structures .
The germinal cells which line the cavities of the cerebral vesicles remain there after they cease to divide , and from them cilia develop .
The inner ends of the myelospongium fibres do not develop cilia as is usually described .
The processes of the hexagonal pigment cells appear on the same date and at the same spot as the rods and cones and do not at first contain pigment granules .
They resemble pseudopodia in their mode of development , and also , after full development , they behave like pseudopodia , for they elongate and retract under the influence of light and carry the pigment granules with them ( the granules having no inherent power of movement ) .
The inner wall of the retinal cup has been seen to have the same structure as the wall of the cerebral vesicle in the early stages , and even later ( as at the 8th day ) some resemblance can still be drawn between them .
" The Classification of the Elements .
" By Henry E. Armstrong , Y.P.RS .
Beceived March 5 , \#151 ; Bead March 20 , 1902 .
Although no direct evidence acceptable to chemists has been adduced which in any way justifies the belief that the elements are decomposible , it is impossible \#163 ; o resist the conclusion that they are genetically related \#151 ; so closely in many respects do they resemble a series of related compounds , especially when regarded from the point of view of the organic chemist .
The generalisation known as the Periodic Law is in itself a justification of this view : the manner in which interrelationship becomes manifest when they are classified in accordance with its canons , being probably the strongest of all the arguments which can be cited as tending to show that the elements are compounds\#151 ; but compounds very different from those with which we are accustomed to deal .
Even in the form in which it was put forward by Mendeleeff , however , the periodic generalisation is but a first approximation : and the great Russian has himself pointed out that it needs improvement and development.* As chemists are beginning to recognise this , t I venture to submit a scheme of classification which I have been led to draw up in * Faraday Lecture , ' Trans. Chem. Soo .
, ' 1889 , p. 656 .
+ Comp. Biltz , * Deut .
cbem .
G-es .
Ber .
, ' 1902 , p. 562 .

