440 Prof. E. W. MacBride .
Some Points the [ May 6 , obtainable after the treatment of the blood films with absolute alcohol , we conclude that it is allied to that known as fatty .
In conclusion , we desire to express our thanks to Dr. G. Buckmaster , and to Dr. J. B. Leathes , for criticism and help in regard to certain of the points raised by the investigation .
Some Points in the Development of Ophiothrix fragilis .
By E. W. MacBride , D.Sc .
, F.B.S. , Stratheona Professor of Zoology in McGill University , Montreal .
( Received May 6 , \#151 ; Read June 13 , 1907 .
) The subject of which the present communication is a brief preliminary account has occupied my attention during the last five years , and a full account will be published shortly .
Meanwhile , a brief outline of the main results is given here .
Ophiothrix fragilis is one of the commonest species of British Ophiuroidea .
Especially in the neighbourhood of Plymouth , where the material for this research was obtained , this species is found in immense swarms , so that , on certain kinds of bottom , hundreds of individuals are brought up with each haul of the dredge .
During the months of June and July it spawns , and on some occasions the Plankton captured above the beds of gravelly sand on which it lives is full of its larvae in all stages of development .
A large quantity of this Plankton , captured during July , 1899 , formed the principal part of the material , but this was supplemented by artificial fertilisation carried out in the laboratory of the Marine Biological Association in the years 1898 , 1899 , and 1905 .
The eggs are small ( about 0*1 mm. in diameter ) and opaque owing to the possession of a reddish-brown yolk .
The development was observed to be completed in 28 days , but the rate of development depends on the amount of food supply in the water , and it is probable that in the sea the eggs develop more quickly than under the most favourable circumstances in the laboratory .
Only on one occasion ( June , 1898 ) was it found possible to rear the larvae through their development until metamorphosis was completed ; this was due to the presence of an unusual amount of Phytoplankton in the water 1907 .
] Development of- Ophiothrix fragilis .
on that occasion , biit on other occasions an abundant supply of the early stages of development : was obtained , so that the gap in the series of larvae captured in the Plankton was completely filled .
If artificial fertilisation is carried out in the usual way , viz. , by dissecting out the ovaries and shaking them over a beaker of clean sea-water in order to let the eggs fall out , and then shaking in the water a piece of testis extracted from a ripe male , the development takes place in the manner which I have already described to the American Society of Zoologists ( 1 ) , and which is illustrated in figs. 1 a , 1 b , and Ip .
The egg segments so as to give rise to a solid mass of cells or morula .
Fig. 1 .
Id. le .
If .
Figs , la , b , c.- Three stages in the abnormal development of Ophiothrix fragilis .
Mes.y mesenchyme .
Coo .
, ccelomic rudiment .
Figs. Id , e , f. Three stages in the normal development of Ophiothrix fragilis .
When the embryo escapes from the egg-membranes and commences to lead a free-swimming existence it has an ellipsoidal form , and consists of an outer mantle of columnar ciliated cells and of an inner mass of rounded cells .
It very much resembles the " planula " larva of a Coelenterate .
Subsequently an invagination takes place at one pole of the egg , and the archenteron is formed .
But the invaginated cells do not form a single layer .
A multiplication of cells takes place at the vegetable pole before the invagination takes place , and when this occurs it takes place in such a manner as to give rise to a sac with a tongue of cells projecting into the lumen .
A similar development in the case of Opliiura brevis has been described by G-rave ( 2 ) .
The larva soon assumes a triangular form ( fig. lc ) , one angle being the Prof. E. W. MacBride .
Some Points in the [ May 6 , posterior end of the animal , whilst the other two are the rudiments of the postero-lateral ciliated arms , which in this species attain an extraordinary length .
The interior cells of the morula are now seen to be the skeleton-forming cells of the calcareous spicules which support these arms .
The coelom arises as a vesicle from the apex of the archenteron , and shortly afterwards the stomodseum makes its appearance in the centre of the anterior surface .
The tongue of cells projecting into the archenteron is gradually absorbed .
Until 1905 no doubt existed in my mind that the course of development above described was the normal one ; but in that year , in addition to the ordinary methods of artificial fertilisation , the device was tried of placing males and females together in half-gallon jars filled with pure sea-water and allowing them to spawn naturally .
A vigorous culture was obtained in this way , and the development differed in some important particulars from the type described above .
Segmentation results not in the formation of a morula , but of a thick-walled blastula ( fig. Id ) , one side of which becomes specially thickened and buds off mesenchyme cells .
The embryo now escapes from the egg-membrane and becomes a larva .
Soon at the pole from which the mesenchyme was produced a regular invagination takes place , with no trace of the tongue of cells described above .
Mesenchyme cells continue to be budded off from the apex of the growing archenteron .
At the same time a conspicuous feature makes its appearance at the animal pole of the larva .
This is a crest of vacuolated cells ( fig. which has a triangular shape , and seems to be an apparatus for the floating of the larva , which lasts until the ciliated arms are developed .
The coelom next makes its appearance as a thin-walled sac , greatly resembling in shape the coelomic rudiment in the larva of gibbosa ( fig. l/ ) , and at the same time the rudiments of the postero-lateral arms appear .
The vacuolated crest diminishes slowly in size ; when it first appears its height is as great as the entire length of the larva , but by the time the stomodseum appears it has disappeared .
Previously to this the coelomic rudiment has become separated from the gut as a single vesicle .
This then divides into right and left halves , and the stomodaeum joins the archenteron , which now shows beginning of the constrictions which mark it off* into oesophagus , stomach , and intestine .
Pausing for a moment to reflect on the meaning of the two types of development described above , it is clear that the difference between them cannot be due to the fact that in the one case the genital organ was dissected out , and in the other case that the animal was allowed to spawn .
In some cases larvae 1907 .
] Development of Ophiothrix fragilis .
443 with a high vacuolated crest were obtained from artificial fertilisation .
It appears to be clear that we must assume that eggs are capable of fertilisation before they are quite ripe , and that the fact that eggs can be fertilised is no proof that they are fully ripe or that the resulting development is normal .
This conclusion has , I think , a somewhat important bearing on the experimental studies for which the eggs of \gt ; Echinodermata have furnished the material .
Notably the statements which some authors have made about obtaining ripe eggs from sea-urchins like Strongylocentrotus all the year round must be received with great caution .
When engaged in the study of the development of Echinus I noticed that if one attempted to fertilise the eggs of half-grown specimens , larvae with imperfectly developed arms resulted , which only lived a few days .
The fact , however , that the abnormal development of Ophiothi'ix fragilis has a considerable resemblance to the normal development of Ophiura brevis is of interest , as showing how far reaching in its influence on the subsequent development is the condition of the egg at the moment of fertilisation , and the idea is suggested that here , perhaps , is to be found the origin of variations .
We left the normal development at the moment when the coelom had been completely separated from the gut and had been divided into right and left halves .
The ciliated band had been formed , and its first two outgrowths , the postero-lateral arms , had appeared .
The stomodseum had joined the gut .
The madreporic pore is now formed by the union of an ectodermic ingrowth with a short outgrowth from the left coelom .
The left coelom is now distinguishable from the right by its more distinct lumen\#151 ; an indication of the fact that it gives rise to the so-called ampulla of the stone-canal .
I have searched in vain for any trace of a right pore-canal such as has been found by Grave in the case of some ophiurid larvae .
From both coeloms , muscle fibres are developed which surround the oesophagus of the larva and endow it with the power of peristaltic motion .
The other larval arms then appear , first the antero-lateral pair at the sides of the mouth and then the post-oral pair at the sides of the anus .
The coelom now undergoes transverse division on both sides into anterior and posterior coeloms , the division on the left side being completed before that on the right ( fig. 2 ) .
The posterior coelom on both sides is at first a solid nodule of cells which later acquires a lumen .
Next , the last pair of ciliated arms , the postero-dorsal , appear , and then the anterior coelom on both sides again prepares for division .
As before , a nodule of cells buds out from the posterior end , but this time the division is not completed .
On both sides the posterior portion , which will form the middle division of the coelom , is not completely separated from the anterior division .
On both sides it becomes hollow .
On the left side it buds out 2 x VOL. LXXIX.--B .
Prof. K. W. MacBride .
Some Points in the [ May 6 , five finger-like prolongations ( fig. 4 ) , thus proclaiming itself to be the rudiment of the hydroccele , or water-vascular system of the adult .
Sections demonstrate that its persisting connection with the anterior ccelom which constitutes the stone-canal , as in the case of Asterina gibbosa , is situated between lobes 1 and 2 .
Pig .
2 .
Fio .
3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Diagram of larva , showing coelom divided on left side and dividing on right side .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Diagram of larva , showing formation of rudiments of hydrocoeles from the posterior ends of the anterior coelomic sacs .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Diagram of larva , showing first stages of metamorphosis .
Notice migration of pore towards the right .
l.a.c. , left anterior coelom ; l.p.c. , left posterior coelom ; l.hy .
, left hydroccele ; I'.p'.c ' .
, right horn of left posterior coelom ; r.a.c. , right anterior coelom ; r.hy .
, right hydrocoele ; rp.c .
, right posterior coelom ; p.c. , pore-canal .
The metamorphosis of the larva into the adult form now commences .
This is initiated by a preponderant growth of the left side .
The hydroccele enlarges , its lobes grow longer , and its anterior end commences to extend dorsally to the stomodseum ( fig. 4 ) .
Soon the left antero-lateral arm is involved and is pushed over to the right ( fig. 4 ) .
This is the first sign of the metamorphosis visible to the naked eye* .
As metamorphosis proceeds , this left arm comes to lie close to its fellow of the right side , and the first lobe of the- hydroccele becomes completely dorsal to the oesophagus .
The left posterior ccelom sends a horn over to the right side beneath the oesophagus , and the posterior end of the hydrocoele extends over to the right , parallel to this horn , eventually meeting the anterior end and converting the hydrocoele into the water-vascular ring .
The movement of the anterior end of the hydroccele carries with it , as already indicated , all the neighbouring parts of the animal , so that the pore-canal and left anterior coelom are carried over to the right and thus come into close proximity with the right hydrocoele , which occasionally , as is shown in fig. 4 , rjiy .
, undergoes a development similar to that of the left side , presenting five lobes .
Often it presents two lobes , but normally it is a thin-walled vesicle without lobes .
1907.J Development ofOphiothrix fragilis .
445 In Asteroidea and Echinoidea , the right hydroccele is from the beginning close to the dorsal pore , and on this account Masterman ( 3 ) and Goto ( 4 ) have called it the central coelom and denied its homology with the left hydroccele .
In Ophiothrix fragilis there can be no question on the subject , for the right hydroccele is , from the beginning , on the right side of the larva , and its dorsal position in the other groups may be explained by supposing that it is right with regard to the adult position of the mouth .
As the adult mouth is on the left side of the larva , right with respect to this mouth will be nearly mid-dorsal with respect to the larval mouth .
But in Ophiuroidea , where the larval mouth persists as the adult mouth , the right hydrocoele is on the right of it from the beginning , and the pore , originally situated on the left side , moves round so as to assume a mid-dorsal position .
Little remains to be added in this preliminary account .
The arm rudiments are outgrowths of the left posterior coelom and , counting from the dorsal end , arm rudiment No. 1 comes to support hydrocoele lobe No. 2 , as in Asterina gibbosa , whilst arm rudiment No. 5 supports hydrocoele lobe No. 1 .
As in Echinus esculentus , inter-radial ridges alternating with the lobes of the hydrocoele grow out and extend outgrowths to the right and left , so as to roof over what would be the ambulacral grooves and thus form the epineural canals .
The perihsemal canals also arise from hollow inter-radial outgrowths of the left posterior coelom , except that the first arises , as in Asterina , from the axial sinus .
The arms of the larva gradually disappear , except the two postero-lateral , which are only cast off when the larva has sunk to the bottom and metamorphosis is complete .
LIST OF PAPERS CITED .
1 .
MacBride , E. W. " Some Points in the Development of Ophiothrix fragilis " 'Proc .
American Soc. of Zoologists , ' Philadelphia , 1903 .
2 .
Grave , Caswell .
" Ophiura brevispina , " 'Mem .
from Biol. Lab .
Johns Hopkins , ' 45 .
3 .
Masterman , A. " The Early Development of Cribrella , with Remarks on Echinoderm Development , " * Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edin .
, ' vol. 40 , Part 2 .
4 .
Goto , S. " The Metamorphosis of Asterias pallida , with Special Reference to the Fate of the Body Cavities , " ' Contributions from the Zool. Lab .
of Mus. of Comp. Zool. at Harvard , ' No. 88 .

