Pear-shaped Figure of Equilibriu of Rotating Liquid .
From this it results that the true azimuth of the Sun at the time of observation = N. 50 ' 30 ' 54 " E. And since azimuth of Friar 's Heel ... ... ..\#151 ; 50 39 5 2 ' of sunrise should be N. of Friar 's Heel 0 8 11 Observed difference of azimuth ... ... ... .= 0 8 40 Observed\#151 ; calculated ... ... ... ... ..= 0 0 29 The observation thus agrees with calculation , if we suppose about 2 of the Sun 's limb to have been above the horizon when it was made , and therefore substantially confirms the azimuth above given of the Friar 's Heel and generally the data adopted .
" The pear-shaped Figure of Equilibrium of a Eotating Mass of Liquid .
" By G. H. Darwin , F.B.S , Plumian Professor and Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Becei\ed Octobei 21 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) This is the sequel to a paper on " Ellipsoidal Harmonic Analysis , " presented to the Royal Society in June , 1901 .
Rigorous expressions for the harmonics of the third clegiee may be found by the methods of that paper , and the processes are carried out here .
The functions of the second kind are also found , and aie expressed in elliptic integrals .
So much of the results of M. Poincares celebrated memoii ' on rotating liquid as relates to the immediate object in view is re-investigated , with a notation adapted for the use of the harmonics already determined .
The general expressions for the coefficients of stability having been found , those for the seven coefficients corresponding to the harmonics of the third degree , as applicable to the Jacobian ellipsoids , are reduced to elliptic integrals .
The principal properties of these coefficients , as established by M. Poincare , are enumerated .
He has shown that the ellipsoid can bifurcate only into figures defined by zonal harmonics with reference to the longest axis of the Jacobian ellipsoid ; that it must do so for all degrees ; and that the first bifurcation occurs with the third zonal harmonic .
A numerical result given in the paper seems to indicate that as the ellipsoid lengthens , it becomes more stable as regards deformations of the third degree and of higher orders , and less stable as regards the lower orders of the same degree .
* ' Acta Math. , ' rol .
7 , 1885 .
148 Sir la Stability de V Equilibre des Figures Pyriformes .
The numerical solution of the equation furnished by the vanishing of the coefficient corresponding to the third zonal harmonic shows that the critical Jacobian ellipsoid is such that its axes are proportional to 065066 , 0-81498 , 1*88583 ; and that the angular velocity w and ' density p of the liquid are connected by the equation------ 0-14200 , 2rrp This ellipsoid is the longest stable figure of Jacobi 's series .
A figure of the deformation of this critical ellipsoid by the third zonal harmonic is delineated in a plate .
The so-called pear-shaped figure is seen to be longer than was indicated by M. Poincare in his conjectural sketch^ Although this figure is almost certainly stable , absolute proof is still wanting .
This proof can only be obtained by proceeding to a higher degree of approximation .
An attempt is made to obtain this higher approximation , and the cause of failure and the difficulties of the problem are discussed .
" Sir la Stabilite de l'Equilibre des Figures Pyriformes affectdes j par un Mass Fluide en Potation .
" By H. Poincare , !
Foreign Member E.S. Peceived October 29 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) J'ai publie autrefois dans le Tome 7 des ' Acta Mathematica ' uni memoir oil j'etudie diverses figures d'equilibre nouvelles d'une mass !
fluide homogene en rotation .
Presque toutes ces figures sont instables ; !
un d'elles cependant , qui est pyriforme , est tres probablement stable . !
Mais la preuve direct de cette stability no pourrait 6tre obtenue quel par de longs calculs .
Le but du present travail est de faciliter ces !
calculs , en donnant \amp ; la condition de stabilite un form analytique !
aussi simple que possible .
La question cependant rest indecise , parce 1 que les formules analytiques n'ont pas ete reduites en chiffres .
II fallait d'abord obtenir un expression de l'energie de gravitation !
d'une pareille figure en poussant l'approximation plus loin qu'on no !
l'avait fait jusqu'ici .
L'emploi des fonctions de Lam4 peut conduire i au r4sultat , mais on se trouve en presence d'une petite difficult^ .
Le I potentiel d'un ellipsoide , ou d'une couch ellipsoidale , affect des i forms analytiques difffirentes selon que le point envisage est a l in-J terieur ou a l'exterieur de l'ellipso'ide .
II en resulte que dans cbacune i des integrales il faudrait donner 4 la fonction sous le sign J , tantdt S un form pour les parties de la surface pyriforme qui sont au dessous !
de la surface de l'ellipsoide , tantdt un autre form pour les parties I qui sont au dessus .
Mais j'ai reconnu que cette difficult^ est purement | artificielle et qu'on obtiendra encore un resultat final correct en 1

