IV .
A Letter from Mr. Halley at Chester , giving an Account of an extraordinary Hail in these Parts , on the 29th of April last .
SIR , I Promised Sir John Hoskyns last Week , to send the Society an Account of a very extraordinary Hail , that fell in these Parts on the 29th of April last , since which I have farther enquired into the Circumstances of it , in order to make the Relation as exact as I might .
The Vapour that disposed the Aqueous Parts thus to congeal came with a South-West Wind out of Carnarvan-shire , passing near Snowdon with a horrid black Cloud , attended with frequent Lightnings and Thunder .
As yet , I hear no further of it Westward , than out of Denbighshire , where it left St. Asaph to the right , and did much Damage between it and the Sea , breaking all the Windows on the Weather side , and killing Poultry and Lambs , and at Sir John Conwey 's at Desert , a stout Dog ; and in the North part of Flint shire several People had their Heads broke , and were grievously bruised in their Bodies .
From Flint-shire it crossed over the Arm of the Sea that comes up to Chester , and was only felt in Cheshire , at the very N. W. Corner of the Peninsula , called Wirall , between the AEstuaria of Chester and Leverpoole , at a Town called W. Kirkby , where it Hailed but for three Minutes , it being on the extreme Point thereof , on the right hand , but it Thundred dreadfully , and was here , about Three in the Afternoon ; but the main Body of it fell upon Lancashire , in a right Line from Ormskirk to Blackborn , which is on the Borders of York shire ; and whether it crossed the Ridge of Hills into York-shire , we know not , but the breadth of the Cloud was about two Miles ; within which Compass it did incredible Damage , killing all sorts of Fowl and small Creatures ; and scarce leaving any whole Panes in any of the Windows where it passed : but which is worse , it plowed up the Earth , and cut of the Blade of the green Corn , so as utterly to destroy it , the Hail-stones burying themselves in the Ground ; and the Bouling-greens where the Earth was any thing soft , were quite defaced , so as to be rendred unserviceable for a time .
This I had from an Eye Witness , The Hail-stones , some of which weighed five Ounces , were of differing Forms , some round , some half round , some smooth , others embossed and crenulated , like the Foot of a Drinking-glass , the Ice very transparent and hard , but a snowy Kernel was in the midst of most of them , if not all ; the force of their Fall argued them to fall from a great Height .
These are the Circumstances have yet occurred ; next Week when I go to Snowdon , I may chance to find the beginning of this Hail , at least trace it as far as the Sea ; and perhaps you may hear further of it out of York shire , beyond York , towards Burroughbrigg , and Rippon .
What I take to be most extraordinary in this Phenomenon is , that such a sort of Vapours should continue undisperst for so long a Tract , as above sixty Miles together , and in all the way of its Passage occasion so extraordinary a Coagulation and Congelation of the watery Clouds , as to increase the Hail-stones to so vast a Bulk in so short a Space as that of their Fall .

