392 Mr. F. Chambers .
The Earth 's Magnetic Force [ Nov. 20 , 17 .
" On the Variations of the Mean Diurnal Inequality of the Horizontal Component of the Earth 's Magnetic Force at Bombay , and their Relations to the Sun-spot Period .
" By Frederick Chambers , Acting Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory , Bombay .
Communicated by C. Chambers , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Received October 9 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The investigation with which this paper deals was suggested by a remark made by Dr. Balfour Stewart , in " Nature , " vol. xxiii , p. 238 , to the effect that well selected magnetic observations might ultimately be found to indicate variations of solar heat more quickly and with greater certainty than any other kinds of indirect observations .
The observations selected are those of the variations of the horizontal magnetic force , recorded at the Colaba Observatory , Bombay , between the years 1846 and 1880 , comprising about 265,000 hourly observations .
The mean diurnal variations for each month , calculated from all the observations , without any exclusion of disturbances , were extracted from the records of the Observatory ; but instead of adopting , in the usual manner , the extreme range of these variations as the subject for further treatment , the mean of all the twenty-four hourly deviations , regardless of signs , was adopted ; the objects aimed at in departing from the usual rule being to give due weight to all the observations , and to eliminate , as far as possible , the effects of rapidly fluctuating disturbances , without rejecting any of the observations .
The monthly number obtained in the manner above described may be called the mean diurnal inequality for the month .
The series of such monthly numbers should , after elimination of the annual variation , exhibit all those variations of the magnitude of the diurnal variation of the earth 's magnetic force which may possibly depend on absolute variations of solar heat .
Indications may therefore be thus obtained of all real variations of solar energy whose periods lie between one month and thirty-three years , if such there be .
Several magnetic variations are shown to exist , and these are compared with the variations of the sun-spots .
The following is a brief summary of the principal results of the investigation:\#151 ; 1 .
The mean diurnal inequality of horizontal force at Bombay is subject to a periodical variation , whose duration is almost exactly eleven years .
2 .
It is also subject to an annual variation , whose amplitude is 1884.1 and its Relations to the Sun-spot Period .
greater in the maximum years of the eleven-yearly period\#171 ; than in the minimum years of that period , the amplitude varying nearly in proportion to the mean diurnal inequality for the year .
3 .
It is also subject to a variation whose duration is more than thirty-three years .
4 .
If any other periodical variations than those above mentioned have any existence , their amplitudes must be small , or the duration of their periods must be less than one year , or more than thirty-three years .
5 .
The maximum and minimum values of the eleven-yearly period , and the range between them , have all increased in the successive eleven-yearly periods of the years 1846 to 1879 .
6 .
The range of the eleven-yearly period is roughly proportional to the mean diurnal inequality for the interval from which the range is calculated .
7 .
The principal features of the eleven-yearly period coincide ( except in point of time ) with those of the well-known sun-spot period .
The duration of the period is the same in both cases , and both variations exhibit a relatively rapid rise from minimum to maximum in about four and a half years , and a relatively slow fall from maximum to minimum in about six and a half years .
8 .
The magnetic curve precedes the sun-spot area curve by as much as six months .
9 .
The magnetic curve is more regular than the sun-spot area curve .
These or similar conclusions , with the possible exceptions of the last two , have either been enunciated by previous investigators , or are directly deducible from their labours ; but the evidence now advanced is probably more decisive than any that has hitherto been published .
On the whole , the conclusions arrived at seem to support Dr. Stewart 's views in a very unexpected manner , for not only does the eleven-yearly magnetic variation precede the eleven-yearly variations of certain meteorological elements , but it actually precedes , by several months , the eleven-yearly variation of the sun-spots themselves ; and the probable error of a single monthly determination of a point on the magnetic curve is little more than 5 per cent , of the greatest range of the eleven-yearly oscillation , a degree of accuracy which is probably unapproached by any other kind of observations .

