390 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
Experiments on the Value of " Experiments on the Value of Vascular and Visceral Factors for the Genesis of Emotion .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.RS .
Received April 5 , \#151 ; Read May 10 , 1900 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , Liverpool .
) That marked reactions of those portions of the nervous system which regulate the activity of the thoracic and abdominal organs and the skin do contribute characteristically to the phenomena of emotion has long been common knowledge .
In descriptions of emotion furnished in recent years by certain leading psychologists these purely physiological processes have been given a place more important than was attributed to them formerly .
To changes induced in the condition of the heart and blood vessels , lungs , abdominal and pelvic viscera and skin has been assigned a large causal r61e in the genesis of affective psychological states .
Whereas the cardiac , vascular , respiratory , and visceral phenomena accompanying emotion were wont to be regarded as secondary to the cerebral and psychological , we find their position reversed in the writings of Professor W. James , * Professor C. Lange , !
and Professor Sergi.f It is true that it is claimed that this more recent ^ position has been foreseen and partly preoccupied by older writers , by Descar tesS and Malebranche , || ; but as Professor Ribot , who with some reservation , endorses the new theory , U writes : " La supe-riorite de James et de Lange , c'fest de l'avoir posee clairement et de s'etre efforces de l'appuyer sir des preuves experimentales."** It is scarcely fitting here to enter on a full statement of the doctrine .
I may , however , be allowed some brief quotations from the authorities indicating their teaching .
After having , in a previous chapter , given an account of the influence that a shock of feeling exerts on the nerve centres controlling circulation , respiration , skin glands , abdominal and pelvic viscera , Professor James writes : " Our natural way of thinking about these coarser emotions ( e.g. , 4 grief , fear , rage , love ' ) is that the mental perception of some fact excites the mental affection called the emotion , and that this latter state of mind gives rise to the bodily expression .
# 4 Mind , ' London , 1884 , 4 Principles of Psychology , ' London , 1890 , vol. 2 , pp. 448 , \amp ; c. f Om Sindsbevagelser , Copenhagen , 1885 ; German by Kurella , Leipzig , 1887 ; French by Georges Dumas , Paris , 1895 .
J Dolore e Piacere , Milano , 1894 , 398 pp. 'Zeitschft .
f. Psvchologie u. d. Physiol , der Sinnesorgane , ' Hamburg and Leipzig , April , 1897 , p. 96 , \amp ; c. S 4 Passions de l'ame , ' Paris , 1648-9 ; 4 Passiones sive Affeetus Animae , Amstelod .
1677 .
|| 4 Recherche de la Verite , ' 1672 .
T 4 La Psychologic des Sentiments , ' p. 92\#151 ; 113 .
Paris , 1896 .
** Ibid. , p. 112 .
Vascular and Visceral Factors for the Genesis of Emotion .
391 My theory on the contrary is that the bodily changes follow directly the perception of the exciting fact , and that our feeling of the same changes as they occur is the emotion."* " Every one of the bodily whatsoever it be , is felt , acutely or obscurely , the moment it occurs .
If the reader has never paid attention to this matter , he will be both interested and astonished to learn how many different local bodily feelings he can detect in himself as characteristic of his various emotional moods .
" !
*\lt ; If -yye fancy some strong emotion and then try to abstract from our \#166 ; consciousness of it all the feelings of its bodily symptoms we find we have nothing left behind , no * mindstuff ' out of which the emotion can be constituted , and that a cold and neutral state of intellectual perception is all that remains .
" !
" If I were to become corporeally anaesthetic , I should be excluded from the life of the affections , harsh and tender alike , and drag out an existence of merely cognitive or intellectual form."S This view is the extreme antithesis to the spiritualistic conception of emotion .
On it the " coarser emotions " come to consist in essence merely of sensations which arise in consequence of the effect of an idea upon the internal organs .
M. Jules Soury says , || " Pour James l'emotion n'est que la conscience que nous avons des reactions organ-iques , vasculaires , glandulaires , matrices , \amp ; c. , provoqu4s par certaines perceptions ou certains souvenirs .
" Professor Lange traces the whole psycho-physiology of emotion to certain excitations of the vasomotor centre .
He conceives all the other of the organic reflexes occurrence in emotion to be attributable mediately to the vasomotor .
For him , as for Professor James , the emotion is the outcome and not the cause or thg concomitant of the .organic reaction ; but for him the foundation and corner-stone of the \#166 ; organic reaction is as to physiological quality vascular , namely , vasomotor .
Emotion is an outcome of vasomotor reaction to stimuli of a particular kind .
The stimulus is some sensation acting often by intermediation through some memorial-idea linked to it by association .
This stimulus induces a vasomotor action in viscera , skin , and brain .
The .change thus induced in the circulatory condition of these organs induces changes in the actions of the organs themselves , and these latter changes evoke sensations which constitute the essential part of emotion .
It is by excitation of the vasomotor centre therefore that the exciting cause , whatever it may chance to be , of emotion produces the organic phenomena which as felt constitute for Lange the whole essence of emotion .
It is noteworthy that in Lange 's view the action of the * * * S * The italics and emphasis stand as in the original .
* Principles of Psychology , * vol. 2 , p. 450 , London , 1890 .
t Ibid. , toI .
2 , p. 451 .
S Ibid. , vol. 2 , p. 452 .
II 1 Du Systfiine Nervous , * Paris , 1899 , vol. 2 , p. 1338 .
392 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
Experiments on the Value of vasomotor centre upon the blood-vessels of the brain , as well as on those of the viscera and skin , plays an important part .
The teaching of Professor Sergi closely approximates to that of Lange .
He argues that the exciting stimulus acts on nervous centres in the bulb ( medulla oblongata ) producing cardiac vascular and respiratory effects as well as effects upon the abdominal and pelvic viscera .
He writes recently : " Lange hat gemeint , die Affekte hingen von dem vasomotorischen Zentrum ab ; doch ist dieses Zentrum zu eng , urn die Mannigfaltigkeit der visceralen Erscheinungen des Ernahrungs lebens erklaren zu konnen .
Dagegen hat mich die Analyse zu der Erkenntniss gebracht dass der Bulbus rachidicus , wo die reflex und automatischen Zentren der Nerven , die das ganze Ernahrungsleben regulieren , zusammenlaufen , das Zentrum der Affekte und im allge-meinen das der Gefiihle ist."* The views of James , Lange , and Sergi have common to them this , that according to them the psychological process of emotion is secondary to a discharge of nervous impulses into the vascular and visceral organs of the body suddenly excited by certain peculiar stimuli , and depends upon the reaction of those organs .
Professor James 's position in the matter is , however , not wholly like that of Professor Lange .
In the first place , he does not consider vasomotor reaction to be primary to all the other organic and visceral disturbances that carry in their train the psychological appanage of emotion ; and to a certain extent Professor Sergi , though more nearly in harmony with Lange , agrees with James in this .
In the second place , Professor James seems to distinctly include other " motor " sensations and centripetal impulses from musculature other than visceral and vascular , among those which causally contribute to emotion .
Thirdly , he urges his theory as one which is completely competent only for the " coarser " emotions , among which he instances " fear , anger , love , grief .
" For Lange and Sergi the basis of apparition of all feeling and emotion is physiological , visceral , and organic , and has seat for the former authority exclusively , and for the latter eminently , in the vasomotor system .
This view , which some may conceivably tax with " materialism , " !
has a merit that materialism does oftentimes possess , namely , relative accessibility to experimental test , j Such test it is attempted in certain measure to apply in the observations which I herewith report .
They have been obtained from five young dogs .
In these # ' Ztschf .
f. Psychologie u. Physiologie d. Sinnesorgane , ' Hamburg and Leipzig , 1897 , vol. 14 , p. 93* f James , 4 Principles of Psychology , ' vol. 2 , p. 453 .
J Sollier , 4 Revue philosophique , ' Paris , March , 1894 .
Dr. Sollier records experiments made on subjects in the condition of deep hypnosis ; their sensation , both cutaneous and deep , was believed to be abolished ; the conclusions he draws from the experiments are in support of the theory of James and Lange .
Vascular and Visceral Factors for the Genesis of Emotion .
393 the spinal cord has been severed in the lower cervical region .
Such a severance lies headward of the exit and entrance of all that system of nerves usually embraced under the term " system .
" It therefore sunders from the brain all nexus with the thoracic , abdominal and pelvic viscera , except that existent through certain cranial nerves .
It also cuts off all the blood vessels from the bulbar vasomotor centre , except for certain scanty communications through the cranial nerves .
The skin and motor organs are , as far as the shoulder , likewise cut off from all communication with the brain .
Therefore behind that level they are precluded from contributing to nervous processes of emotion , either in their centripetal or their centrifugal phases .
In each of these dogs the observations have been prolonged for several months subsequent to the operation of transection ; in none has any impairment whatever of emotional character , so far as demonstrable , been detected .
To study emotion in a lower animal is not altogether easy\#151 ; even in a dog .
But if reliance be placed on the signs that are usually taken to signify pleasure , anger , fear , disgust , then these animals showed them as unmistakably after as prior to the transection of the cervical spinal cord .
The sight of , or the sound of , the attendant who kept them evoked from them the same joyous activity and animated caressful pose of head and feature as formerly .
Towards friends and enemies among their fellow-inmates of the animal house they displayed as markedly as ever their liking or their rage .
To give an instance , I saw fear notably displayed by one of the dogs , a young animal , approached and threatened by a powerful old Macaque monkey .
The lowering of the head , the dejected half-averted face , and the drooped ears contributed to indicate existence of an emotion as lively as the animal had ever shown us before the spinal operation had been made .
An observation of confirmatory kind I once obtained in the laboratory of my friend Professor Mosso of Turin .
In a young dog under deep chloroform narcosis , I had performed a spinal transection close behind the origin of the phrenic nerves .
Six weeks later , the trauma having completely healed and the condition of spinal shock having largely subsided , I placed the animal once more under chloioform , but this time not profoundly .
I connected the femoral artery with the mercurial kymograph and proceeded to record the arterial pressure , allowing the chloroformisation gradually to pass off .
As the depth of the narcosis waned , the breathing became quicker and less regular .
The waking of the animal was accompanied by no pain , because the whole body was insentient behind the cervical region , and the kymograph attachment was in the femoral region .
I was intending to faradise a branch of one of the nerves of the right hind limb .
Inductorium , electrodes , galvanic cells , and whole electric circuit stood 394 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
Experiments on the Value of on a table near , but not on that on which the kymograph observation was in process .
In order to be sure that all was ready , I closed the electric key and touched the vibrator of the inductorium .
The harsh rattling noise of the vibrator lasted a few seconds , and I then stopped it by re-opening the key .
Turning thereupon toward the arterial record , I was a little disappointed to see that a marked oscillation had suddenly upset the already somewhat undesirably irregular line that had to serve as starting level for the vasomotor reflexes I was wishful to study .
It was clear that one would have to wait for greater quietude to re-establish itself again .
I waited ; the disturbance of the arterial pressure subsided ; the previous fairly equable cardiac beat , despite somewhat disquiet respiration , returned .
A few minutes later I again started , by force of habit , trying the inductorium for a couple of seconds preparatory to proceeding to excite and observe the vasomotor reflexes .
Again , on turning toward the trace running on the kymograph , I was met by a sudden disturbance that had altered it .
This time it occurred to me that the sudden whirring noise of the magnetic interruptor might have caused the reaction .
This supposition I proceeded to test , and soon found that each time the noise was repeated the disturbance of the circulation followed .
If the reaction had become less , as it frequently did after a number of repetitions , it was only necessary to wait for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour in order to re-obtain it in its original extent .
I then remembered that in examining the limits of the cutaneous anaesthesia in this animal from week to week , I had at several times employed the inductorium ; sometimes the electrodes had in making the delimitation been applied to points of skin still sentient , and no doubt had there caused sensations of unpleasant quality .
The recurrence of the sound to the awakening animal occasioned now emotional anxiety* But in this animal the vasomotor centre cut off by the spinal section from practically the whole of the rest of the vasomotor mechanism was quite unable to affect the arterial pressure.* Hence that rise of pressure observed by Couty and Charpentierf to occur under emotion of fear was impossible in this case .
All the more obvious and uncomplicated for that reason appeared the inhibitory action exerted on the heart .
The heart that had been beating at the rate of 180 per minute , suddenly fell for twenty seconds to a rate of 54 per minute* The respiratory rhythm was easily seen to be also altered , but no graphic record of the respiratory movement was being employed .
A slight elevation of the mean arterial tension immediately preceding the * Some description of the spinal reflex and other vasomotor reactions obtained from these ardmals I hope to give in the ' Journal of Physiology ' ; they are not necessary to the argument here .
t " Effets cardio-vasculaires des excitations des sens , " fig. 4 .
' Archives de Physiologie normale et pathologique , ' 1877 , p. 560 .
Vascular and Visceral Factors for the Genesis of Emotion .
395 vagus action on the heart I incline to attribute to mechanical effect on the circulation , secondary to alteration in respiratory movement .
The Fig. 1\#151 ; Kecord of the arterial pressure in a dog forty-one days after } spinal transection at the 7th cervical segment .
The arterial pressure is high and good in spite of the transection , the period of vasomotor shock having passed by .
For the short period marked by the signal the noise of the vibrator of an inductorium sounded and was heard by the animal , ihe point o. the signal marked nearly 8 mm. further to the right than did the kymograph pen .
The inhibition of the heart is shown by the oscillations on the kymograph trace .
The kymograph paper moved from right to left , so that the facing reads from left to right .
The line marked " Zero of B.P. " signifies the height of the zero of the manometer recording the arterial pressure .
interest of the observation here is that it gives an objective illustration of a disturbance emotional in character occurring in an animal 396 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
Experiments on the Value of after the possibility of vasomotor reaction had been set aside , and after the vastly larger portion of all visceral reaction had also'been removed .
All the evidence I obtained from all the dogs went absolutely con-cordantly to show that in spite of exclusion of such a huge field of vascular , visceral , cutaneous , and motor reaction the emotional states of anger , delight at being caressed by the master or at approach of a friend , fear , and disgust were developed with as far as could be seen unlessened strength .
The horripilation of the coat along the crest of the back between the shoulders , so usual an accompaniment of anger in the dog , was of course absent in these dogs , the spinal pilomotor* nerve-fibres having had all connection with the brain ruptured .
But absence of this reaction could not for a moment mask emotional disturbance so vividly indicated by other features of expression .
Regarding emotions of fear and disgust , the former was evoked by threatening with the voice or gesturing with a whip , the latter by the expedient of substituting dog's-flesh for horse- and ox-flesh in the dog 's food-pan .
Few dogs , even when hungry , can be prevailed on even to touch dog's-flesb as food j almost all turn away from it at once with obvious signs of repugnance and dislike .
Fear and disgust in answer to these tests seemed as indubitable in these dogs as in normal .
Great care was taken throughout not to establish in the dogs under observation by too frequent repetition or encouragement a habit or trick of response by emotional signs that might thus become so to say pseudo-emotional with the artificiality of an acted performance .
No employment of the special tests for eliciting the emotions was made in them until after performance of the spinal section .
Even then the tests were never frequently rehearsed ; nor were the animals ever encouraged or incited to respond unduly or in a particular manner .
It was sought to as far as possible approximate the tests to natural incidents , and to as far as possible collect the observations from natural incidents .
The above was the condition found to obtain in the animals after the cervical spinal transection .
I then proceeded in two animals to carry the test further by additional severance of both the vagi nerves in the neck .
The vagus may be regarded as the great visceral unit of the cranial series of nerves .
Its section subsequent to prethoracic spinal transection relegates to the field of insentience the stomach , the lungs , and the heart , in addition to the other viscera previously rendered apsesthetic.f It also limits still more narrowly the number * Langley and Sherrington , 'Journal of Physiology , 'Cambridge and London , 1891 .
f By apeesthetic is meant not only devoid of sensitivity but deprived of all connection with the nervous centres necessary to conscious reaction , a meaning for which the word apcesthesia , was suggested by Dr. Mott and myself , these ' Proceedings , ' vol. 56 , 1895 .
Vascular and Visceral Factors for the Genesis of .
397 of efferent and afferent channels by which the vascular system can be possibly affected .
Of the animals chosen for these further observations , one was selected because we soon noted marked emotional characteristics in her behaviour even on her first arrival in the laboratory .
She was a mongrel-bred fox-terrier with rather wiry coat , white in colour .
She was older than the other dogs ; her exact age we did not know .
She quickly showed herself affectionate toward the laboratory attendants , one of whom had her in charge ; but toward some persons and toward several inmates of the animal house , she frequently exhibited violent displays of anger .
Her ebullitions of rage were sudden .
Their expression accorded well with a description of the symptoms of rage in the dog furnished by Darwin.* Besides the utterance of the growl , \#171 ; the ears are pressed closely backwards , and the upper lip is retracted out of the way of the teeth , especially of the canines .
The mouth was slightly opened and lifted ; the eyelids widely parted ; the pupils dilated .
The hair along the mid-dorsum , from close behind the head to a point more than half way down the trunk , became rough and bristling .
A particularly violent outburst of anger was once suddenly , without warning , exhibited against a visitor who happened to enter with me , and had not before visited the room .
Spinal transection in the cervical region was performed on this animal ( under deep anaesthesia ) .
Subsequent examination months later at the autopsy proved the section to have been through the 6th cervical segment , where it trenches on the 7th .
The severance was complete , as was confirmed by microscopic examination .
Rapid recovery from the trauma followed .
An interval of depression of the spinal functions behind the site of lesion was succeeded by gradual restoration of reflex activity , surface temperature , \amp ; c. Sensation , superficial and deep , was found to be lost behind the limit shown by the skin line indicated in the accompanying figure ( fig. 2 , p. 400 , the lower diagram ) .
The flexors of the elbow were not paralysed , but the extensors were completely so I have shownf that the sensory nerve supply and motor nerve supply to any muscle have both of them the same segmental position in the spinal cord .
Therefore the only muscle still sentient behind the shoulder region must have been the diaphragm .
No alteration whatever was detected in consequence of this lesion in the occurrence of emotion , as judged by anger , by delight , or , when provocation arose , by fear .
Her joy at the approach or notice of the attendant , her rage at the intrusion of a cat with which she was unfriendly , appeared as active and thorough as before .
But among the signs expressive of rage the bristling of the coat along the back no longer occurred .
On the other hand , the eyes were # " Expression of the Emotions/ * Darwin , London , 1872 , p. 117 .
t ' Phil. Trans./ London , 1897 .
398 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
Experiments on the Value of well opened , and the pupil distinctly dilated in the paroxysm of anger .
Since the brain had been by the transection shut out from discharging impulses via the cervical sympathetic , the dilatation of pupil must have occurred by inhibition of the action of the oculomotorius centre .
That the cervical sympathetic had been cut off from its normal bulbar and cerebral excitation was shown by the semi-paralysis of the membrana nictitans in this dog , as in all the others , after cervical spinal transection .
This partial closure of the eye , due to impaired tonus in the third eyelid , was little if at all diminished during the outburst of rage ; but we sometimes thought that during the fit of anger the third eyelid was a little more retracted than in its usual paretic condition .
As in the other dogs after spinal transection , so in this , the spinal transection markedly enfeebled the voice .
This we thought traceable entirely to the enfeeblement of the respiratory muscles , the only respiratory muscle left unparalysed after the transection being the diaphragm .
The viciousness of the enfeebled and short-winded growl and bark remained as unmistakable and virulent as ever .
Apart from this change in the ocular and vocal factors of the facial and respiratory expression of anger , we detected no departure from their previous normal in any direction whatsoever .
The heart-beat could be felt to be altered , sometimes becoming quick and sometimes slow , but rarely remaining unchanged during the exhibition of wrath .
I thought I could feel " vagus beatsf but the upset of respiratory movement made the judgment difficult .
One hundred and eighty days after the spinal transection , I divided under deep chloroform anaesthesia the right vagus nerve in the neck , about the level of the cricoid cartilage , and therefore well below the superior laryngeal branch , but above the recurrent laryngeal .
The cervical sympathetic trunk in the dog is contained in the same sheath as the vagus , so also is the depressor branch of the superior laryngeal , and all three were divided by the same section .
This operation produced curiously small obvious result .
There ensued little or no difference between the pupils ; the right was generally a little the smaller .
Absolutely no difference was discoverable between the degree of protrusion of the third eyelids right and left .
The palpebral openings on the two sides appeared the same .
The pose of the pinna of the ear of each side , both right and left , seemed quite similar .
The voice , after the first day succeeding the operation , when it seemed altered in some quality difficult of description , reassumed the character it had had since the spinal transection .
The exhibition of emotion , as tested by delight , anger , and fear , indicated emotional states as marked and violent as ever .
The trauma was rapidly recovered from as regards the healing of the small wound necessary .
Twenty-eight days later the left vagus nerve was similarly divided under deep anaesthesia , and at the same level as the right .
The left Vascular and Visceral Factors for the Genesis of Emotion .
399 depressor nerve and the left sympathetic trunk were severed at the same time .
Subsequent examination at the autopsy proved that both nerves had been completely cut .
An additional guarantee was given by the absolute absence of all effect on stimulating the distal end of each of the four trunks before proceeding to the autopsy __that is , twenty-one days after the second vagotomy , when complete nerve degeneration had been allowed time to occur .
In this animal , the superior laryngeal was the lowest branch of the vagus remaining intact and connected with the brain .
The recurrent laryngeals proceeded from the vagus trunks , below the level of the sections .
The results of the operation were dyspnoea tending to occur in short-lasting attacks , but often passing off entirely ; some loss of appetite , which was in the course of seven days recovered from ; considerable enfeeblement of , and alteration of , the growl and bark , both these however still remaining , although modified .
The attacks of dyspnoea .diminished , and in the course of ten days disturbed the animal rarely and but little .
We began to think they might be avoided altogether .
The animal seemed quickly to learn what postures were least hampering to respiratory movement , and this had as result a marked improvement in breathing and general condition .
In this animal the capacity of the nervous system differed from that obtaining in those subjected solely to the spinal transection , in that to the body regions and organs already cut off from the brain and rendered anaesthetic and put beyond power of contributing to conscious reaction , there were added in this case the stomach and lower half ( 1 ) of oesophagus , the lungs and lower half ( ?
) of the trachea , and finally the heart itself .
( Compare diagrams , fig. 2 .
) Of any diminution or change in the emotional character of the animal we could detect no trace .
The following illustrates her condition in that regard .
_ . .
The approach of the visitor whose advent months previously elicited such violent anger , again provoked an exhibition of wrath as significant as before .
The expression was indubitably that of aggressive rage-The animal propped itself against its kennel , and followed each movement of the stranger as though of an opponent , growling viciously , and barking in spite of increasing dyspnoea under the excitement-On other occasions a cat with which she was never friendly , and a monkey new to the laboratory , approaching too near the kennel , excited similar ebullitions .
No doubt was left in our minds that sudden attacks of violent anger were still easily excited in this animal .
She also gave evidence daily that she experienced the accession of joyous pleasure and delight she had always shown at the approach of the attendant the first thing of a morning , or at feeding time , or when caressed by him , or encouraged by his voice .
^ I had carefully refrained from testing this animal previously with .
400 Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
Experiments on the Value of regard to disgust at dog's-flesh if it were offered in her food .
After / her recovery from the last operation , that is to say from the eighth .x----------------------------vX \ V\ V \ }\ Pio .
2.\#151 ; Diagram to indicate the extent of the parts still retaining sensitivity after the spinal ( upper figure ) and combined spinal and vagosympathetic ( lower figure ) nerve sections described in the text , pp. 393 , 396 .
The extent of skin surface left sentient is delimited by the continuous ( not dotted ) lines in the figures .
The limit of -deep/ * i.e. , muscular , articular , \amp ; c. , sensitivity also corresponds with this line .
But the limit to which the respiratory and alimentary tracts still retained sensation is shown by dotted outlines of the lungs , heart , and stomach in the upper figure , of the larynx and upper part of oesophagus in the lower figure .
From anatomical data it is presumed that the trachea and oesophagus had been deprived of all sensitivity somewhere about those levels .
The curved line behind the chest indicates the diaphragm as the only muscle behind the shoulder still retaining afferent nerves .
day after it , we proceeded to this observation .
Flesh was given her daily in a bowl of milk , and this ( after return of her appetite a week subsequent to the second vagotomy ) she took with relish .
The meat Vascular and Visceral Factors for the Genesis of Emotion .
401 was always already cut into pieces of a size rather larger than the lumps of sugar usual for the breakfast table .
It was generally horse-flesh , sometimes ox-flesh .
On the tenth day after the final operation the bowl was placed by the attendant , as usual , in the corner of the stall , with milk and meat in it in every way as usual ; but the meat was flesh from a large dog killed in the laboratory on the previous day .
Our animal eagerly drew itself toward the food ; it had seen the other dogs fed and evidently itself was hungry .
Its muzzle had almost dipped into the milk before it suddenly seemed to find something amiss there .
It hesitated , moved its muzzle about above the milk , made a venture to take a piece of the meat , but before actually seizing it stopped short and withdrew again from it .
Finally , after some further examination of the contents of the bowl ( it was usual for it to begin the attack of its food by taking out and eating the pieces of meat ) , without touching them , the creature turned away from the bowl and withdrew itself to the opposite side of the cage .
Some minutes later , in result it seemed of encouragement from us to try the food again , it returned to the bowl .
The same hesitant display of conflicting desire and dislike was once more gone through .
The bowl was then removed by the attendant , emptied , washed , and horse-flesh similarly prepared and placed in a fresh quantity of milk was offered in it to the animal .
The animal once more drew itself toward the bowl and this time began to eat the meat , soon emptying the dish .
This test was similarly applied afterwards on various occasions ; always with the above result , except that twice the animal did , after much hesitancy , lap some of the milk out of the bowl , although dog's-flesh was immersed in it .
We have occasionally seen a normal dog do likewise when hungry .
To press the flesh upon our animal was of no real avail on any occasion ; the coaxing only succeeded in getting her to , as it were , re-examine but not to touch the morsels .
The impression made on all of us by the dog 's behaviour has been that there existed in the dog's-flesh something which was repulsive to the animal and excited in it disgust unconquerable by ordinary hunger .
Some odour attaching to the flesh seemed the mark for its recognition .
Fear seemed to be clearly elicitable in this animal .
While I held her in my arms the attendant , approaching from another room the door from which was open , chid the dog in high scolding tones .
The c creature 's head sank , her gaze turned away from her advancing master , and her face seemed to betray dejection and anxiety .
The \ respiration altered and became unquiet , but the pulse was never altered in rate although perhaps slightly in volume .
Twenty days after the last vagotomy the animal suddenly developed a serious attack of dyspnoea ; this was recovered from , but in the course of the following day a similar attack occurred .
Fearing 402 Vascular and Visceral Factors for the Genesis of Emotion .
lest in our absence Such an attack should recur and prove fatal , eluding the possibility of testing the excitability of the vagi and sympathetic and of thus examining the completeness of their functional removal , I therefore on the 21st day after the latter vagotomy and the 229th after the cervical transection killed the animal under deep chloroform narcosis .
A second dog , a quite young puppy , was made the subject of a \#166 ; course of similar experiments .
The animal was hardly so suitable , because it at no time , either before commencement of or in the course of the experiment , exhibited to similar degree the signs of anger .
Its exhibitions of joy and pleasure , as also , on occasion , of fear , were well marked .
The spinal transection in the cervical region , and the double section of the vagi and the cervical sympathetic nerves in the neck , seemed not to dull at all its emotional character as tested by these tests .
The spinal transection was through the seventh cervical segment , the section of the vagi above both recurrent laryngeal branches and of the sympathetic trunks at the same level .
The animal was preserved under observation 174 days from the time of the first operation , namely , from the spinal transection .
The autopsy proved all the sections to have been complete .
The results have substantiated those noted in the previously related observations .
The only point of difference worth remarking seems that in this last case the reactions were given by a very young animal practically reared in the laboratory , whereas in the just mentioned older bitch there was a past history , with habit and education , of the details of which we in the laboratory knew nothing and have failed to obtain information .
These experimental observations yield no support to the theories of the production of emotion quoted at the opening of this communication .
On the contrary , I cannot but think that they go some way toward negativing them.* A vasomotor theory of the production of .emotion seems at any rate rendered quite untenable .
I am not sure if I understand Professor Sergi aright when I think that he suggests that in absence of vascular and visceral reactions , the very quality of affective tone must be lacking to sensations .
Such a suggestion is .opposed by the ease with which evidence of unpleasant , .
, painful quality of sensation could be evoked by appropriate excitation of the still sentient regions of skin in the animals we had before us , the subject of this note .
It need hardly be added that the importance of the concurrence , together with the other reactions in emotion , of marked vascular and * All who have visited and seen the animals , the subject of this communication , have fully concurred in the opinion of myself and others in the laboratory as to the possession by them of ample and lively emotions .
I would especially mention and thank for their attention to the matter , Dr. Abram , Professor Paul , Dr. Warrington , Sir James Russell , and Dr. James Mackenzie .
On the Brightness of the Corona of April 16 , 1893 .
403 \#166 ; visceral and cutaneous , seems to me as to others hardly over-estimable for the study of the subject .
Wundt , * A. Mosso , t Alf .
Lehmann , + Head , S and Wright|| are among those who have in recent years laid .stress on that aspect of the phenomenon .
I would not be thought to impugn the importance of the study of such organic phenomena in connection with emotional mental states .
The only respect in which the here given observations affect the position of affairs is , that they , I think , render it necessary to attribute to these elements of emotion another significance than that imputed by the authorities quoted in my opening paragraph .
The picturesque incisiveness of all that comes from Professor James 's pen , renders the more persuasive any argument that it pursues .
His suggestive chapters led to the above attempt at examination of his theory , an examination the incompleteness of which I wish to unreservedly acknowledge .
The expenses of this investigation have been in part met by a grant given by the Research Committee of the British Medical Association .
I would take this opportunity of tendering to them my best thanks for their generous support .
** On the Brightness of the Corona of April 16 , 1893 .
Preliminary Note .
" By K E Turner , M.A. , E.R.S. , Savilian Professor .
Received March 29 , \#151 ; 'Read May 10 , 1900 .
The visual brightness of the corona was measured at the total eclipses of August 29 , 1886 , and April 16 , 1893 , by Professor T. E. Thorpe , using a method arranged by Sir W. Abney ( 'Phil .
Trans. , A , 1889 , p. 363 , .
and 1896 , p. 433 ) .
Soon after the first of these eclipses , Sir W. Abney devised a method of measuring the brightness photographically , by exposing a portion of the plate , which was not exposed to the sky , to a standard light passed through a row of small square screens of varying and known thickness .
The result is a series of " standard squares " on the plate , which show the density of deposit due to standard lights of known values ; and by comparing the density of the coronal image we find the brightness of the corona in terms of these standard lights .
These squares were first put on the coronal photographs by English observers at the eclipse of December , 1889 , and have been systematically used by them since .
The 1889 photographs have not yet been measured .
Some measures of the 1893 photographs were made by me in Sir W. Abney 's laboratory at South Kensington , in July , * * Grundriss d. Psychologies yoL 1 , 3te Auflage , Leipzig , 1893 .
t * La Paura , ' Milano , 1885 .
X 6 Das Gefuhlsleben/ Leipzig , 1892 .
S " Visceral and referred Pains , " Parts I , II , and III , Brain , 1893-7 , London .
It Ibid. , t " The Physiological Element in Emotion , " 1894 , London .

