[ 107 ] IV .
On the Development oj Marsupial and other Tubular , Notes upon the Development Enamel in General .
By Charles S. Tomes , , Received July 12 , 1897 , \#151 ; November 18 , 1897 .
[ Plate 16 .
] In the year 1849 my father , the late Sir John Tomes , ( 1 ) described the structure of Marsupial enamel , showing that the enamel was penetrated , more or less richly , by tubes running into it from the dentine , a thing unusual in other Mammalia .
But , in the Marsupials , with the solitary exception of the Wombat , it is universal , although in some , as for example in Petaurus , only a few of the tubes enter ; and in the Dasyuridce they are far less abundant , and traverse a smaller thickness of the enamel than in the Macropodidse .
In the latter , the tubes are exceedingly abundant , most of the dentinal tubes being apparently continued into and through the greater part of the thickness of the enamel ; they become finer as they approach the surface , and none of them quite reach it ; sometimes an enamel tube is connected with two dentinal tubes , and sometimes ( rarely ) the converse is the case .
Amongst other Mammals this character is met with occasionally ; it may be well seen in the Hyrax ( Plate 16 , fig. 1 ) ; in some Insectivora , notably in the Shrew ; in the Jerboa , and in a few other Bodents ; whilst in the human subject it may be rarely found , but only in a rudimentary condition ( fig. 2 ) .
The facts that the tubes do not reach to the exterior of the enamel , even in Macropus ; that the penetration is variable , even amongst the Marsupials ; that it does not exist at all in the Wombat , and that the character reappears sporadically amongst other Mammals , would seem to render the inference justifiable that striking , and in some respects anomalous , as the character is , it cannot depend upon any very radical difference in the developmental process from that which results in the formation of an ordinary solid enamel .
This inference is borne out by the investigations to be related , which prove to throw much light upon the development of enamels other than those of Marsupials .
In those Marsupials in which but few tubes enter the enamel , there is often little or no dilatation at the point of passage , nor is there any marked deviation in direction , p 2 14.3.98 but in the Macropods there is usually a well-marked dilatation at this point , and there is usually also a sharp bend ; there is , in fact , what might almost be described as a clumsy joint ; this is noticeable , though to a less extent , in Hyrax .
In Macropus there is also a peculiarity in the course of the tubes in their passage through the enamel , at all events in certain regions of the tooth ; not only do they pursue gently curved courses , but about one-third of the distance between the surface of the dentine and that of the enamel , they all simultaneously take abrupt bends in more than one plane , which brings them into a course sometimes almost circumferential to the long axis of the tooth ; hence , on the same slide they may be seen both in longitudinal and transverse section .
This peculiarity proved to be of great service in unravelling the nature and position of the tubes , as it was possible thus to check the appearances seen in longitudinal section by those apparent in transverse section at closely-adjacent points .
My father ( 2 ) had discovered that if a section of a Kangaroo 's tooth be ground thin and then submitted upon a slide to the action of an acid , the tubes , or as he supposed , the dentinal fibrils ( 'Phil .
Trans./ 1856 ) could be seen hanging out as a fringe from the edge of the dentine , the intervening portions of the enamel having been dissolved .
In repeating his experiment I found that the tubes so isolated stain readily with nigrosin ( as do also the sheaths of Neumann in the dentine ) , and that the tubes somewhat readily part from the dentine , remaining upon the slide as a more or less tangled mass , waving about in the fluid ; but they cohere strongly together by their enlarged ends where they have touched the dentine .
They also resemble the sheaths of Neumann in being resistant to the action alike of acids and of alkalis .
Whether , like the dentinal tubes , they consist of a resistant sheath containing a softer fibril , or whether they wholly consist of the resistant material , has not been shown ; but , although the enamel tubes are larger than those of the .
dentine , it is difficult to get coloured fluids to enter them .
It might have been supposed that it would be a very simple matter to determine the position of these tubes in completed enamel , and to say whether they lay in the interior of the prisms or between them , but as a matter of fact it proved to be very difficult .
For in proportion as the tube system is highly developed , so do the enamel prisms cease to be distinct ; indeed , they can hardly be seen at all in those parts of the tooth where the tube system is richly present .
In addition to this , the tubes , like the tubes of dentine , and , indeed , like most enamel prisms , pursue a spiral course , like a corkscrew pulled out until it is nearly straight ; hence , even in very thin sections , they appear to wind about with the smallest alteration of focus of the microscope .
It is , however , noteworthy that their spiral excursions do not exceed in amplitude MARSUPIAL AND OTHER TUBULAR ENAMELS .
1.09 the width of an enamel prism , so that the appearances seen in ordinary ground sections would be equally consistent with their winding along in the interior of the prisms , or with their winding round their circumferences in the interstitial substance .
Von Ebner ( 5 ) considers that they are certainly between the prisms , an opinion shared by .Dr .
Paul ( 10 ) .
But , after devoting a great deal of time to the elucidation of this point , I am unable to agree with these observers , and I believe them to lie in the interior of the prisms , a conclusion arrived at alike by the study of completed enamel and of its development .
If a section be ground thin ( till it is not much more than 5 p , thick ) , a troublesome thing to do , owing to the brittleness of enamel , and then very slightly washed with acid , the interstitial substance is acted upon more quickly than the prisms themselves , and the latter come more prominently into view as clear spaces with sharply-defined outlines ; but the tubes often cannot be seen at all in sections so treated .
If such a section be stained with nigrosin , the interstitial substance takes the stain , while the prisms themselves do not , but the stain is not very deep , and the substance has a dotted or granular appearance .
At the same time , other finer lines , more darkly stained and much more sharply defined ( fig. 10 ) , come into view , and these are seen to run in the middle of the prisms , but only for short lengths ; by alterations of focus , however , they can be traced further , and it can be seen that their apparent disappearance is due to their following spiral curves , so that only short lengths lie in any one plane .
They are found to wander as far as the interstitial substance , and then to return ; moreover , in fortunate places , where the prisms happen to be cut transversely , a dark dot is seen in the centre , or near it , in each mapped-out area ( fig. 3 ) .
1 have , however , only been able to see this last-mentioned appearance in that part of the enamel which lies very near to the dentine , where the tubes are largest .
Although much has been written upon the development of enamel generally , I am uot acquainted with any detailed published account of the development of Marsupial enamel , nor , indeed , of any of the forms of tubular enamel .
The material upon which the observations to be recounted have been made has been very kindly placed at my disposal by the Zoological Society , through the kindness of Mr. Beddard , and by Mr. Woodward , of the Boyal College of Science ; to the latter I am also much indebted for the use of several beautiful serial sections , prepared by him with another end in view , namely , the investigation of the succession of the teeth in Marsupials .
My material consisted of embryos of Macropods and of Hyrax , but unfortunately it is almost impossible to procure Marsupial embryos in tirst-rate histological preservation , as they are apt to have lain in the pouch for a time after their death , and this has added much to the difficulty of getting good sections .
The problem of the method in which the tubular enamels are built up seemed an interesting one , as it was difficult to imagine in what way the epiblastic enamel could become penetrated by outgrowths from the mesoblastic dentine , especially when it is remembered that the first thing formed is a thin layer of dentine , in which are contained only the fine terminations of the dentinal tubes , so that the enamel is at the very earliest period cut off from any communication with the dentine pulp , save through these fine canals and their contained fibrils .
To meet this difficulty Dr. Paul ( 10 ) has suggested that tracts of dentine matrix enter and grow out into the enamel , carrying with them the dentinal tubes ; but this explanation I am unable to accept for reasons which will become sufficiently clear .
But I may say at once that I have come to the conclusion that the tubes of the dentine cannot , in the strictest application of the terms , be said to enter the enamel at all ; it is true that , the tubes in the enamel are continuous with those of the dentine at the point of junction of the two tissues , but those which lie in the enamel are wholly and entirely a product of the enamel organ , and cannot , therefore , be properly termed " dentinal " tubes .
I have been unable to discover the smallest difference between the enamel organs of Marsupials and those of other Mammals prior to the commencement of calcification .
The first change observed is the formation of a thin layer of dentine , which differs from that ordinarily found in that it has no granular layer , but the dentinal fibrils are continued right out through it to its surface .
If it so happens that in cutting the section , or from a little shrinkage in preparation , the enamel cells are parted from the thin first-formed layer of dentine , each enamel cell ( hereafter called ameloblast ) is found to be furnished with a process , the so-called Tomes ' process , described years ago by my father ( fig. 6 ) .
At the earliest stage the free extremities of the Tomes ' processes are somewhat clubbed , and tend to cohere by their edges ; these enlarged ends seem to be concerned in the formation of the thickened joints already alluded to ( p. 108 ) , and they account for the cohesion of the tubes at the dentinal surface of the enamel when isolated by the use of an acid .
At this period the Tomes ' processes seem to become closely applied to , and to perhaps unite with , the terminations of the dentinal fibrils , but they become so quickly imbedded in pits of semi-calcified material that this is difficult to make out with certainty .
As regards their taking stains they always behave precisely as does the plasm of the ameloblasts , of which they are obviously a continuation ; and in sections which are very thin , and which happen to hit the axis of a cell and its process , there is no appearance of cell membrane across the end of the ameloblast , but , on the contrary , its interior is continued without break into the process ( figs. 6 , 8 and 11 ) ; the nuclei of the ameloblasts lie near to the further ends of the cells , and are always much more deeply stained than the plasm of the cells .
The Tomes ' processes are soft and extensile , so that when the ameloblasts are displaced they may be drawn out into thin threads ( figs. 5 and 8 ) , which renders it MARSUPIAL AND OTHER TUBULAR ENAMELS .
Ill improbable that they have any membranous investment on their sides , although their sharply bordered outlines look as though they had one .
A.t any but the very earliest stage in development the Tomes ' processes are artefact ; that is to say , they are short portions of a much longer fibrillar process broken off at a certain uniform distance from the ameloblast , because at this point the impregnation with lime and perhaps other changes have rendered them harder .
The Tomes ' process is always , in my preparations , of smaller diameter than its parent cell , in the axis of which it lies , but I am unable to say how far this diminished diameter is due to the drawing out of an extensile substance , or to its shrinkage under the action of reagents ; if it could be seen , which it cannot , in a specimen not treated with any reagent , it is probable that it would be nearly or quite of the full diameter of the ameloblast , which about corresponds in size ( 3'5 p , to 4 p ) to the prism of completed enamel .
The next appearance to which attention is directed , is one that is exceedingly conspicuous in the formation of Marsupial enamel ; it is that of a honeycomb , the partitions of which stain strongly with almost all stains , so that the youngest layer of enamel appears to be full of holes or pits ( figs. 5 and 8 ) .
The appearances commonly seen are those represented in figs. 5 and 8 , but these sections are more or less oblique to the axes of the pits ; if the section happens to more closely coincide with their axes , the appearance shown in fig. 11 is seen , where the Tomes ' processes are seen to enter and fill up the pits .
To the exact relations of this honeycomb to the ameloblast process I shall have occasion to recur later ; for the present , it will suffice to point out a peculiarity in the honeycomb , which is , that it is most conspicuous at a certain stage of enamel formation , that is to say , near to the ameloblasts , but that in the somewhat older enamel it is lost and cannot be seen at all .
This , which is at first sight puzzling , is , nevertheless , easily susceptible of explanation ; it is a familiar fact to every student of calcification , that just upon its border line it is very common to meet with a half-calcified material which is very resistant to reagents , and which is very possibly a form of Harting 's calcoglobulin ( 4 ) .
Such structures are to be found forming the linings of the dentinal canals as Neumann 's sheaths , round the lacunoe of bone , round the Haversian canals of bone , and , as a fenestrated membrane on the surface of developing human enamel when it has been treated with an acid .
But when calcification has proceeded a little further , it loses this power of resistance and dissolves in acids .
So that in the case of enamel , we have first the coherent ameloblasts , then a short region in which the Tomes ' processes stand isolated from one another , then the honeycomb ; and , lastly , in the region of older enamel , isolated fibres occur again in these decalcified sections of tubular enamel , though had an enamel with solid prisms been under observation , nothing at all would have remained here .
But in the case of a Macropod enamel , long fibres , extending in favourable sections through the whole thickness of the enamel formed and reaching to the dentine , are seen ( fig. 9 ) .
I use the term fibres for want of a better , but it must not be thought to imply that they have any distinctly fibrous structure ; indeed , I can distinguish no structure in them .
The existence of fibres in growing enamel was described by Dr. Andrews ( 12 ) , in a valuable paper , at the conclusion of which he writes : " I am led to believe that there probably exists in developing enamel , as has already been found in developing bone and dentine , a fibrous substructure on and between which the enamel is deposited .
After the enamel is wholly formed , its existence seems to be wholly blotted out in the dense calcification of the tissue .
" This statement , so far as it goes , I can wholly confirm , so far as solid enamels are concerned .
He , however , imagined that they proceeded from the cells of the stratum intermedium , which is certainly not the case .
The fibres are beautifully seen in some of Mr. Leon Williams ' photographs , but their full significance has not been recognised owing to their speedy disappearance in the formation of most enamels .
In Marsupials , however , owing to the retention of a canal down the axis of the enamel prism , they persist , and can be more effectually studied .
When the ameloblast processes have not been torn off at the level of the honeycomb region , they are seen to start out from the axis of each ameloblast , then at a little distance from it to be laterally glued together ( fig. 7 ) , and then to become distinct again and to run on to the dentine , getting smaller and more distinct from one another as they go , and sometimes showing very plainly the spiral turns characteristic of the tubes in the enamel , which indeed I believe them to constitute .
As confirmatory of the view that the fibres calcify centripetally may be mentioned the fact that within certain limits the older the enamel , i.e. , the further from the ameloblasts it lies , the smaller do the fibres , as seen in decalcified sections , appear .
It has been pointed out by Mr. Leon Williams ( 14 ) that the long axes of the ameloblasts in many animals by no means correspond with the direction of the prisms of the completed enamel .
This is perfectly true , but the direction of the fibres does ; hence these often form an angle with the ameloblasts from which they spring .
The ameloblasts stand , roughly speaking , at right angles to the surface of the dentine .
That portion of the fine fibre which when broken off is called a Tomes ' process , starts in the same direction , but in many places begins to turn off very abruptly about 6 [ x from its parent cell , and afterwards undergoes other changes of course ( fig. 9 ) .
How these changes of direction are brought about there is nothing to show , but I am satisfied that they correspond exactly with the course of the enamel prisms in the finished tissue .
And it is possible to trace the fibres into continuity with the plasm contents of the ameloblast ( fig. 6 ) , so that we can safely say that each ameloblast sheds off from its open free end , or is converted MARSUPIAL AND OTHER TUBULAR ENAMELS .
into , plasm which consolidates into a fibre , and that this fibre runs continuously through the whole thickness of the enamel .
To return to the honeycomb structure , it appears that the membranous-looking exteriors of the fibres are fused with the partitions of the honeycomb , as is indicated by that portion of the fibril which intervenes between the ameloblast and the honeycomb shrinking a little so as to leave interspaces , whilst its attached ends do not shrink ( fig. 11 ) .
This is also well seen where the fibrils have been drawn out , in which case the end of the fibre attached to the honeycomb retains its full diameter , that attached to the ameloblast a considerable part of its diameter , whilst the intervening portion is drawn out into a mere thread ( figs. 11 and 8 ) .
Hence it is difficult to resist the conclusion that the septa of the honeycomb are formed by calcification , or by changes preparatory to calcification , in or round the peripheral portions of the fibres , and that this progresses inwards towards their axes , stopping short , however , in the tubular parts of a Marsupial enamel of reaching their centres , and so leaving a central canal doi the axis of each fibre which remains uncalcified .
In transverse sections of the honeycomb the spaces may sometimes be seen to be occupied by a less deeply stained circular body ( fig. 4 ) , though this often does not quite fill the hole .
This , however , is probably due , not to such being its normal condition , but to its having shrunk a little where it is still soft , whereas the septa have become rigid , being further advanced in calcification .
Oblique sections , though at first sight a little more confusing , lend themselves to the same interpretation .
The ameloblasts , when cut obliquely , are difficult to define , though their nuclei remain conspicuous objects ; a little way from their ends the cells of the honeycomb show as ovoid openings ( fig. 12 ) , while beyond ( above in the figure ) the tissue appears more solid .
In the openings of the honeycomb , dark bodies , the fibres cut across , occur in many places , whilst in others they have fallen out ; but enough remain to show their identity with the row of oval dark bodies , which , with light interspaces , constitute the older , more solid portion ; this is especially well seen in fig. 12 , in which it is obvious that the succession in series of dark ovoid bodies are not markings in an individual fibre , but consist of a series of parallel fibres cut across obliquely .
This same appearance is seen in one of Mr. Leon Williams ' photographs ( fig. 83 of his paper ) , though he appears to interpret it differently .
It will be noticed that in these oblique sections the partitions of the honeycomb are well stained , as they usually are ; but as we progress further into the more formed enamel the corresponding areas become light , and it is the contained fibre alone that is stained .
In fact , the septa have almost disappeared under the action of the decalcifying acid ; and , still further , in yet more developed enamel , they quite disappear , leaving the fibres free .
VOL. CLXXXJX.\#151 ; B. Q In other words , the most calcified portions dissolve in acid , those less calcified remain and take the stain ; while in completed enamel the interstitial parts remain the most susceptible to solution by acids , as is exemplified by the effect of washing a ground section of enamel slightly with weak acid .
Conclusions as to the Development of Enamel .
Each ameloblast gives origin to an axial prolongation of its own interior plasm .
The ameloblast is not itself actually calcified , as was formerly supposed by many observers , myself included , but this fibrillar prolongation of its plasm does calcify ; hence it seems probable that a single ameloblast gives rise to the whole length of an enamel prism , itself receding as the enamel grows thicker .
In each individual fibre calcification goes on from without inwards , leaving , during the formation of the greater part of the thickness of the enamel , a central tract soft and uncalcified .
Ultimately , however , as the exterior of the enamel is approached , the axial canal becomes smaller and smaller , and finally thins out to nothing , so that a solid prism is the result .
This occurs earlier in the process in some Marsupials than in others .
The tracts of calcification belonging to each fibre do not fuse completely with their neighbours , but a small amount of interstitial calcified material is poured out between them .
Nevertheless , it is not at all certain that each fibre has a membranous sheath , although it seems as if their outer were more dense than their inner portions .
This theory of the calcification of enamel is quite in accord wdth the views expressed by Dr. Sims Woodhead ( 11 ) .
He holds that calcification is in a measure a sort of degenerative process , the stages of which are that the active plasm becomes a " formed material , " and that in this lime salts , brought and prepared by the still active tissues in its immediate neighbourhood , are deposited , their deposition taking place by physico-chemical processes , which he compares to dialysis .
One difficulty suggests itself in the acceptance of the theory here advocated , which involves the laying down of the enamel prisms as an organic matrix ; and this is the chemical composition of enamel .
I have shown elsewhere ( 15 , i. ) that the amount of organic matter left in finished enamel , at all events in that of the Elephant , Horse , and Man , is exceedingly small , far less than the three to four per cent , usually given in analyses ; and it is hard to understand what becomes of the organic matter which must certainly at one time have been present .
I have not succeeded in isolating a sufficient quantity of Marsupial enamel to ascertain with certainty what proportion of organic matter remains in it , but 1 have met with indications that it is at all events , just as might have been expected , materially more than in the other Mammalian enamels .
It is , of course , possible that the fibres , continuous though they are with the plasm of the cells , may MARSUPIAL AND OTHER TUBULAR ENAMELS .
have already become themselves poor in organic matter .
And it is not clear why , unless each fibre has a limiting membrane , the contiguous fibres do not completely fuse with one another ; in the most perfect human enamel the prisms are not exceedingly distinct prior to the application of a reagent , but washing with weak acid always renders them so , and it is seen that there is a small amount of interstitial substance which is more quickly acted upon than the prism itself , just as in Marsupial enamel .
I do not propose in this paper to enter into the vexed question of the precise mode in which the lime salts are prepared and deposited , as to do so would extend it to an undue length ; whether yon Spee ( 7 ) , Andrews ( 12 ) , and Williams ( 14 ) are right in believing that globules of a semi-fluid material rich in lime are formed within the ameloblasts , and shed out from their ends , I am not prepared to say .
Several of the photographs and drawings which illustrate this paper , show very plainly the appearance of those oval or spherical forms in the cells upon which their view is founded ( figs. 5 and 8 ) .
And a photograph taken by me , many years ago , of the developing enamel of a species of Hahnaturus seems to lend some support to the idea that there may be some such material , as a vacuolated appearance shown in it is confined to a particular series of sections , and suggests the idea that it has been produced by some sort of coagulation of a semi-fluid material rather than that it is a real histological tissue .
There are , however , some other appearances to which passing attention may be called , as they are shown in the illustrations to this paper .
The ameloblasts vary much in length ; of course it has long been known that the enamel organ is more extensive upon the tooth germ than is the area upon which enamel is to be developed , and that the ameloblasts where no functional enamel is going to be formed are short and small .
This variation in the length of the ameloblasts has been alluded to by Albertina Carlsson ( 13 ) , when describing the early tooth germs of osseous Fish , but she speaks with reserve as to its significance .
I have noticed , however , that they undergo a great increase in length in Marsupials even after calcification has commenced .
Thus , at first , where but a thin layer has been formed , they are often not more than 30 p , long , whereas in the same or neighbouring sections , where the process is in full swing , they are as much as 45 or 50 / xlong ; so far as it goes this would point to a single cell forming the whole length of the prism .
Again , the appearance of the nucleus is often peculiar ; its usual form is that of an oval , quite filling up the cell at the place it occupies , near to the distal end of the cell .
But , in so large a number of sections as to render it unlikely that it can be due to any accidental cause , it has a square or even a concave end towards the forming enamel ( fig. 9 ) , while from the horns of the crescent thus seen in section Q 2 there appear to be processes running down towards the free end of the cell , though of the existence of these delicate fibres I am not very certain .
The plasm of the cell also has a markedly reticulate structure , the threads running principally in its length , but I have not succeeded in connecting them definitely with the developmental process ( figs. 5 , 6 , and 8 ) .
It seems possible , if the nuclei do thus give origin to threads , that their concavity towards the forming enamel may be due to their being more tied at some points than at others , and so assuming this form during their progressive recession as enamel is being formed .
The views advocated in this paper are quite at variance with those expressed many years ago by the late Professor Huxley ( 3 ) , who believed that the enamel cells or ameloblasts were separated from the forming enamel by a membrane , so that , as calcification took place upon the opposite side of this membrane from that occupied by the cells , they could not take any direct part in the process .
This view has not , more especially of late years , had many adherents , and there is amongst recent writers a tolerably complete consensus of opinion that the enamel cells do take a very primary and active part in the process .
Miss Nunn ( 6 ) arguing to a considerable extent upon certain appearances which she had observed in the developing teeth of Plagiostomes , supported Professor Huxley 's view , but in some particulars carried it yet further , the following being her conclusions :\#151 ; 1 .
The cuticuladentis is formed by the metamorphosis , either in whole or in part , of the enamel cells , which have nothing whatever to do directly with the formation of the enamel .
In its early stages the cuticula has frequently been considered as " the newly formed layer of enamel " and also as the basement membrane .
2 .
The basement membrane may be demonstrated upon the surface of the tooth papilla and upon the tooth in all stages of development .
It becomes calcified with the other hard tissue of the tooth and cannot be separated by acid .
3 .
The enamel , like the dentine , owes its origin to the odontoblasts , the processes of which , in an early stage , may be traced quite up to its outer edge .
The nature of the cuticula dentis , so long in dispute , seems to have been tolerably conclusively settled by the recent researches of Dr. Paul ( 9 ) , who considers it to be a thing formed after the completion of the whole thickness of the enamel , and nonexistent at any earlier stage in the process .
From the shape , size and general appearance of the cell forms which can be traced in it ( in describing which he has been to some extent anticipated by Miss Nunn ) , he concludes that it is formed not by the ameloblasts , but by the cells of the external epithelium of the enamel organ .
If this be the case ( and even if his conclusions be not in all respects correct ) , it would appear that Miss Nunn considers as one and the same thing structures which most observers hold to be two perfectly distinct things , namely , the membrane which can be raised by acid from the enamel of a complete but unworn tooth ( Nasmyth 's MARSUPIAL AND OTHER TUBULAR ENAMELS .
membrane or culicula dentis ) , and that which can be raised by acids from the surface of enamel only during its development .
The latter is not a continuous sheet ( 15 , ii .
) ; at least it is a much perforated sheet , the perforations corresponding in size and position with the ends of the forming enamel prisms , and it is , I believe , entirely artefact , that is to say , it is merely a certain stage in the development of the enamel , of small vertical thickness in most enamels , but , in the form of the " honeycomb " of this paper , of greater thickness in Marsupial enamel .
Nothing which is contained in Miss Nunn 's paper appears to me to really militate against this view , and the long fibrillar processes demonstrated in the present paper , which are without question continuous with the ameloblasts , go to prove that there cannot be a membrane separating the ameloblasts from the forming enamel , and also that the ameloblasts do take a most active and direct part in enamel formation .
Miss Nunn 's third conclusion , based apparently upon what she had seen in developing Plagiostome teeth , that the enamel owes its origin to the odontoblasts , is startling in being at variance with the almost universally accepted view that the enamel is epiblastic and the dentine mesoblastic in origin .
Nevertheless , from investigations which I commenced only after this paper was in the hands of the Royal Society and which I hope shortly to publish , 1 believe that , so far as the so-called enamel of Plagiostomes is concerned , she was nearly right , and had hit upon a significant discovery , in which she was partly anticipated by Hertwig , but which appears to have been overlooked by most subsequent writers .
But so far from this observation being applicable as an argument as to the manner in which enamel generally is developed , I consider that it is to be interpreted quite differently .
The existence of a strongly differentiated layer upon the mesoblastic dentine papilla of Plagiostomes , which Hertwig and she have quite rightly , though not in much detail , described , I can confirm , and it does certainly participate in the formation of the so-called enamel of these creatures .
But I think that this goes to show that their so-called enamel is not fully homologous with that of higher vertebrates , for neither this layer itself nor anything corresponding to it has any existence in the Mammalian tooth germ .
And , indeed , the suspicion that the enamel of Plagiostomes was not fully comparable to that of Mammals seems to have occurred to writers who have only investigated it in its completed condition ; thus the late Sir Richard Owen gave to it a special name , that of Ganoin , and more recently Jaeckel ( 16 ) speaks of it as a very low form of enamel , and proposes for it the name Placomschmelz .
But I have only very lately adopted the view that the enamel of Plagiostomes is not fully homologous with that of Mammals ; and , indeed , in this paper , as originally presented to the Royal Society , I had drawn comparisons between the tubular 1.18 MR. C. S. TOMES ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF enamels of Marsupials and of Plagiostomes which I no longer consider to hold good in their entirety .
The theory of enamel formation here advanced , whilst reconcilable with the figures given by Rose ( 8 ) , is not quite in accord with the views recently advocated by Leon Williams ( 14 ) , who is of opinion that the enamel prism ( or rod as he generally styles it ) is the thing first formed , and that the prisms are at a later stage of the process fused together by an at first semi-fluid material , which runs in between them ; whereas the illustrations which accompany this paper would indicate that the interstitial substance and the peripheries of the prisms are the first things to be formed .
And whilst I admire the beauty of his specimens and of the photographs which illustrate his paper , I cannot help thinking that if he had had Marsupial enamel under observation , he would have drawn somewhat different conclusions as to the development of enamel generally.'* The view that enamel formation essentially consists in the centripetal calcification of preformed fibres , is applicable to all enamels , and serves to render intelligible many facts that were otherwise difficult to understand .
Tomes ' processes and the existence of a thin sheet of young enamel , which was perforated , have long been recognised * Mr. Leon Williams ( 14 , i. ) writes : " If we look closely at the last layer of developing enamel shown at d , we shall see that it contains a row of globular bodies of very regular and uniform size .
These are manifestly identical with those seen along the edges of the enamel in the acid-treated specimens shown in figs. 33 and 35 of this paper .
They are quite distinct from the masses of calcoglobulin , such as are seen at C , in fig. 38 .
In fact , they are often , I may say generally , obscured by the melting together of the large irregular masses .
The enamel rods are built up by the successive , rhythmical orderly deposit of these bodies of uniform size , which I shall henceforth denominate the enamel globules .
The larger , more transparent , and irregularly sized bodies of calcoglobulin melt or flow together to form the inter prismatic substance " ( p. 36 ) .
" There are two distinct products of the enamel-forming organ .
One of these products , from which the enamel rods are built up , is formed by the ameloblasts , and is probably a direct nuclear formation .
In the enamel cells it takes the form of globular bodies containing granules , sometimes arranged with more or less order , so as to resemble the nucleus of the cell .
In the formed enamel rod these globular bodies are more or less compressed into disk-like shapes , and are sometimes nearly or quite melted into one another .
Simultaneously or alternately with the deposit of the globular bodies a translucent substance like albumen in appearance is seen passing out of the ameloblasts .
This substance is probably taken from the blood by the secreting cells of the stratum , and evidently contains the mineral matter of which the completed enamel consists .
As the globular bodies pass from the ameloblasts they are seen to be connected with plasm strings , which strings can often be plainly seen in the body of the ameloblasts .
The globular bodies are also often seen connected literally by strings or projecting processes .
Around the skeleton thus formed , which constitutes the real structure of enamel , the albumen-like substance flows , supplying the cement substance and probably the mineral matter , for the calcification of the whole " ( p. 78 ) .
But Mr. Leon Williams in his earlier writings upon the subject ( 14 , ii .
) came , in my opinion , very close to the true interpretation of the development of enamel , for he there wrote that in teased-out enamel cells a fibre runs out from the end of the cell , and that as the formation of enamel progresses the cells recede , leaving withiu the formed enamel what appears to be a fibre of living matter in the centre of the enamel prism .
MARSUPIAL AND OTHER TUBULAR ENAMELS .
both in human and other Mammalian enamels , and , indeed , traces of a honeycomb structure may often be seen .
So also have the soft fibres been described by Andrews and others , but the full significance of these several structures has not been recognised , owing to their being so speedily obscured by the complete solid calcification of the enamel prism .
Once grant that a manner of calcification , resulting in the formation of tubes , is the normal and indeed the universal procedure in the first instance , and that the differences are solely in degree ; that is to say , that the tube system is retained for the greater part of the thickness of the enamel , but is abandoned in favour of a solid calcification in the outermost part of the enamel , in Marsupials , and that in the rest of Mammalia the tube condition is very transient , the fibres speedily becoming solid prisms , then the difficulty of accounting for the occasional occurrence of tubes in human enamel ( fig. 2 ) , and for the reappearance of the tubes in certain Rodents , Tnsectivora , and in Hyrax ( fig. 1 ) , disappears , and it is not necessary , as heretofore , to seek a teleological interpretation for a structure that we cannot see to be in any way advantageous : it becomes simply the retention of a stage of development through which all alike pass , and which some retain and others do not .
The calcifying fibres seem to present some parallel with ordinary osteogenetic fibres , and perhaps , in respect of their imperfect calcification , with Sharpey 's fibres , but they stand alone in being the product of epithelial cells , and also perhaps in being distinctly the extensions of individual cell contents .
Tubular enamels are quite common amongst Fish , but until their development has been worked out , it is unsafe to draw close comparisons with them ; for at present it appears as though in them , or at all events in Plagiostome fish , a tissue which , when complete , has a good deal of resemblance to a Marsupial tubular enamel , has been formed by a developmental process by no means identical .
Bibliography .
1 .
Tomes , J. On the Structure of the Dental Tissues of Marsupials , and more especially of the Enamel .
Phil. Trans. , 1849 .
2 .
-----On the Presence of Fibrils of Soft Tissue in the Dentinal Tubes .
Phil. Trans. , 1856 .
8 .
Huxley , T. H. On the Development of the Teeth , and on the Nature and Import of Nasmyth 's Persistent Capsule .
Quart .
Journ. Microscop .
Science , 1853 .
4 .
Harting , P. Morphologie synth^tique sir la production artificielle de quelques formations calcaires organiques .
Academy Rovale Neerlandaise , Amsterdam , 1872 .
5 .
von Ebner .
Streitige Fragen liber den Bau des Zahnschmelzes .
Sitzungsberichte d. Kaiserlich .
Akad .
, Wien , 1890 .
G. Nunn , Miss. On the Development of the Enamel of the Teeth of Vertebrates .
Proc. Boy .
Soc. , vol. 34 , 1882 .
7 .
von Spee .
Ueber die ersten Vorgiinge der Ablagerung des Zahnschmelzes .
Anatom .
Anzeig .
, vol. 11 , 1887 .
8 .
Pose .
Ueber die Entwickelung des menschlichen Gebiss .
Verhand .
d. Deutseh .
Odontolog .
Gesellschaft , vol. 3 , 1891 , and a figure copied from Pose in Quain 's Anatomy , by Professors Schafer and Thane , 10th ed. , 1896 .
9 .
Paul , Dr. Nasmyth 's Membrane .
British Journ. Dental Science , 1894 .
10 .
---- On the Enamel Organ .
Dental Pecord , 1897 .
11 .
Sims-Woodhead , Dr. On Inflammation in Bone .
Transacs .
Odontol .
Society .
1892 .
12 .
Andrews , Dr. Contribution to the Study of the Development of Enamel .
Trans. World 's Columbian Dental Congress , Chicago , 1894 .
13 .
Carlsson , Albertina .
Zahnentwickelung bei einigen Knochenfischen .
Zoolog , Jahrb .
, Anat .
Abtheil .
, vol. 8 , 1894-5 .
14 .
Leon Williams , ( i. ) On the Formation and Structure of Dental Enamel .
Dental Cosmos , Feb. 1896 , et seq. , and Journal Boy .
Micros .
Soc. , 1896 .
( ii .
) Dental Cosmos , 1884 .
15 .
Tomes , Charles S. ( i. ) On the Chemical Composition of Enamel .
Journal of Physiology , 1896 .
( ii .
) A Manual of Dental Anatomy , 5th ed. , 1898 , p. 164 .
16 .
Jaeckel .
Abhand .
Geologisch .
Spezialkart .
Elsass-Lothringen , vol. 3 , Part IV .
Lettering Applicable a. Ameloblasts .
b. Cells of stratum intermedium .
c. Youngest portion of enamel on honeycomb region .
d. Dentine .
dp .
Dentinal pulp .
e. Enamel .
f. Fibrillar processes of the ameloblasts .
TO ALL THE FIGURES .
g. Tubes in the enamel .
h. Boundaries of the enamel prisms .
i.Enamel prisms tolerably advanced in calcification .
h. Globular bodies of von Spee and Andrews .
1 .
Tomes ' processes .
s. Stellate reticulum of the enamel organ .
16 .
a slight bend and dilatation exists X 80 .
From a where the tubes pass from the dentine into the enamel , photograph .
Description of Plate 16 .
Fig. 1 .
Ground sagittal section of tooth of Hyrax ; MARSUPIAL AND OTHER TUBULAR ENAMELS .
Fig. 2 .
Human dentine and enamel ( abnormal ) , showing a slight penetration of the enamel by continuations of the dentinal tubes .
X 200 .
From a photograph .
Fig. 3 .
Ground section of the enamel of Dasyurus , near to the dentine , and parallel with its surface , so as to cut the enamel prisms transversely ; slightly washed with acid .
X 1000 .
Drawing .
Fig. 4 .
Section of young enamel of Halmaturus transverse to the cells of the honeycomb , decalcified and stained .
The slightly shrunken fibrils are seen occupying the spaces .
X 700 .
Drawing .
Fig. 5 .
Developing enamel of Macropus .
The section is not quite parallel with the long axes of the ameloblasts , hence the cells of the honeycombed layer are opened somewhat obliquely .
The ameloblasts are slightly pulled away from the forming enamel , so that their processes are drawn out and thinned down .
X 700 .
From a photograph .
Fig. 6 .
Ameloblasts of Macropus , showing Tomes ' processes and their continuations into long fibrils .
At one side ( the left ) the section does not pass through the axis of the cell and its process , and here there is an appearance of a membrane across the end of the cell , which is absent at the other side .
X 700 .
From a drawing .
Fig. 7 .
A general view of the developing tooth of .
To the right , near the top , is the stellate reticulum of the enamel organ , then the stratum intermedium , the ameloblasts , Tomes ' processes , and the longer fibrils into which they are continued .
Below this comes a layer of dentine , enclosing the dentinal pulp .
X 200 .
From a photograph .
Fig. 8 .
Ameloblasts of Macropus , showing their processes , which have been much drawn out by the displacement of the cells .
Below is the honeycomb .
X 700 .
From a drawing .
Fig. 9 .
Ameloblasts and their processes of Halmaturus .
The nuclei of the ameloblasts present an angular , sometimes almost crescentic form , and their processes undergo several abrupt changes of direction shortly after leaving the cells ; corresponding changes of direction occur in the tubes in completed enamel .
In places the fibrils reach right across to the dentine .
X 250 .
From a photograph .
Fig. 10 .
A ground section of the enamel of Macropus , which has been washed with acid and stained with nigrosin .
The tubes are seen as short , curved , sharply defined lines , whilst the interstices of the prisms are less deeply stained .
X 500 .
From a drawing .
Fig. 11 .
A somewhat oblique section of ameloblasts , their processes , and the pits of the honeycomb .
In this section there appears to be some differentiation of the axial portions of the fibrils , as ill-defined dark areas appear in their centres .
X 800 .
VOL. CLXXXIX.\#151 ; B. R 122 ON MARSUPIAL AND OTHER TUBULAR ENAMELS .
Fig. 12 .
An oblique section through the ameloblasts , which are at the bottom of the figure ; the honeycomb region ; and , at the top of the figure , somewhat more advanced enamel .
In this latter region many rows of parallel prisms or fibrils are cut obliquely , so that a pattern " which does not belong to a single fibril or prism is produced .
The interstices between them are here clear and unstained .
X 650 .
From a photograph .
B-V'ol .
]89.i8g ^St , Not .-

