380 Mr. C. Wesendonck .
[ June 16 , IV .
" Note on the Spectrum of Carbonic Acid .
" By Charles Wesendonck ( Berlin ) .
Communicated by Professor Helmholtz , For .
Mem. R.S. Received May 16 , 1881 .
The well-known spectrum first observed by Swan at the inner cone of a number of flames produced by burning liquid and gaseous combinations of carbon , has been ascribed by Messrs. Attfield* and Wattsf to the element carbon itself ; while several other natural philosophers , amongst whom I only mention Messrs. Thalen and Angstrom , !
; P. Smyth , LiveingS and Dewar , || believe it to be due to some combination of carbon with hydrogen .
The fact that the bands and lines of Swan 's spectrum are seen even when oxide or binoxide of carbon is made luminous in a Geissler tube by means of an electric current , the last-named gentlemen explain as being caused by the gases not having been entirely deprived of all moisture when introduced into the vacuum tube .
I therefore believed it to be not altogether without interest to make some experiments on carbonic acid dried with the utmost care .
For this purpose I used a mercurial pump , as invented by Professor Toepler , with some slight changes in the original construction indicated by Dr. Hagen,1\#166 ; fl ' which enables us not only to obtain the most perfect vacua , but also to avoid every cock or junction by slided pieces , which must be greased in order to be hermetic , so that no vapours and gases containing carbonic matters arising from the grease , either by increase of temperature or by the electric current when passing the vacuum tube , would render impure the carbonic acid , as is the case with the common Geissler pumps .
Carbonic acid was produced in the well-known manner from marble and diluted muriatic acid in a Kippian apparatus , well washed with water in a large Woolf 's bottle , and then sent through concentrated sulphuric acid , three tubes of ( J form containing chloride of calcium , and a double tube half filled with anhydride of phosphoric acid .
To this last tube were fastened , by means of sealing , two Geissler glass cocks , being on the other side fastened by sealing to a valve of sulphuric acid , that prevented all vapours coming from the cocks from entering the vacuum tube .
After all air had been driven and pumped out of the whole apparatus , the spectrum tube was evacuated to the highest possible degree , in order to free it from all moisture adherent to the sides of the glass .
This , however , was found to cause some * " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 152 , 1862 .
f " Phil. Mag. , " Ser. 4 , vol. 38 , 1869 .
$ " Nova Acta .
Upsal .
, " Ser. 3 , vol. 9 .
S " Phil. Mag. , " ( 5 ) , 8,1879 .
|| " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , 1880 .
IT " Wiedemann 's Annalen , " Neue Folge , Bd .
12 , 1881 .
1881 .
] Note on the Spectrum of Carbonic Acid .
difficulty , for the green hydrogen line was seen with great constancy in high vacua , even if not the least trace of it could be remarked when the carbonic acid spectrum could be seen brightly .
I soon recognised that the more the gas had been deprived of moisture , the further had the exhaustion to be carried on to render the said line visible again , but for a long time I could not get quite rid of it .
By repeatedly filling and exhausting the vacuum tube , in doing which the gas naturally was only permitted to pass very slowly through the phosphoric anhydride tube , and the spectrum tube was heated to the highest degree possible , I at last arrived at such a degree of perfect dryness as no more to give any trace of the fatal green line , not even if the tube was exposed to high temperature ; this , indeed , always had the effect of driving into the vacuum some matter adherent to the sides of the glass , and causing the illumination of the tube , when this had been so far exhausted as no longer to permit any current to pass , to reappear .
But the brilliant mercury spectrum seen under such circumstances showed nothing of a hydrogen line .
Nevertheless , after this exceedingly high degree of dryness had been obtained , when there was some gas admitted into the spectrum tube and this again exhausted , the fatal line was feebly seen , showing clearly that the gas had not been entirely deprived of its moisture by its passing through the system of drying apparatuses .
I therefore finally only experimented with such carbonic acid as had been in perpetual contact with the phosphoric anhydride during at least twelve hours , and it was not till now that I got rid of every trace of the hydrogen lines .
When making the experiments that I believe to be decisive , I always took care to convince myself , by rarefying , not only that the gas had remained perfectly dry , but also that the current had not introduced any trace of hydrogen or hydrocarbon when passing through the tube ; for both would have been discovered in the high vacuum by the appearance of the green line , the spectrum of hydrogen being by no means oppressed by that of carbon in such a vacuum , as I most clearly observed when experimenting with olefine gas , which in a very rarefied state shows from the beginning of the current 's passage a very distinct spectrum of the first order of hydrogen , besides the one of carbon .
If the bands and lines observed by Swan really belonged to hydrocarbon only they could not have appeared in our case , but they did appear very distinctly and clearly , as soon as the density of the gas became great enough to oblige the current to pass as a spark through the vacuum tube ; and even not less brightly was Swan 's spectrum seen at much lower pressures by using a Leyden jar .
The capillary tube in which the said spectrum alone was seen was then wholly filled by the luminous discharge ; no real spark appeared in this case , while the wide parts of the spectrum tube showed Watts ' second carbon spectrum .
It is these last-mentioned experi2 d 2 38^ Mr. J. S. Russell .
The Wave of Translation .
[ June 18 ments only , made by use of a Leyden jar , that I believe to be decisive , and to prove irrefutably that Swan 's spectrum cannot be ascribed solely to hydrocarbon .
As to the phenomenon shown by sparks , it is not quite so Convincing ; for , accepting Wiillner's* ideas , one could object that the spark affecting only a set of molecules of infinitely small transverse section could have carried forth from the electrodes an exceedingly small quantity of hydrogen , which would quite escape observation when expanded throughout the whole vacuum tube , but would be sufficient to induce the hydrocarbon spectrum in the lme of the spark .
This explanation , however , I do not think to be at all probable .
The tube used in these experiments was of common size ; the ends of the electrodes , which were of aluminium , had a distance of about 15 centims. from one another .
Some results , differing from those just mentioned , were obtained in a wide spectrum tube without capillary tube , .the ends of its electrodes being distant about 3 centims. from one another .
The spark then no longer exhibited Swan 's spectrum , even when the carbonic acid was not dried with the utmost care , as in the above-mentioned researches ; but there were seen the enlarged maxima of Watts ' second spectrum , which I have shown by some researches , of which a short account has been published in the Berlin .
Monatsb .
, " 1880 , p. 791 , to be generally due to the continuous form of discharge , according to the nomenclature of Messrs. Thalen and Angstrom .
If the density of the gas was still increased , there flashed a very brilliant line spectrum , never before observed by me , in a tube of common size .
These facts , at all events , show that there exists some relation between the different orders and forms of spectra and the conditions of discharges ( probably , according to my opinion , the quantities of electricity sent through the unit of space in the unit of time , till now unknown to us ) that will doubtless become clear as soon as the causes governing spark discharges shall be better recognised\#151 ; a subject on which Sir W. Thomsonf says that it is difficult even to conjecture an explanation .
Y. " The Wave of Translation and the Work it does as the Carrier Wave of Sound .
" By John Scott Russell , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1881 .
Synopsis .
Short history of the wave of translation discovered by me in 1832-3 .
Investigation of its shape , nature , speed , and difference from all other waves in its character as a solitary carrier wave .
* Wullner , " Lehrbuch der Experimental Physik , " vol. 2 , p. 250 ; \amp ; c. t Papers on " Electrostatics , " \amp ; e. , p. 247 .

