]\gt ; Consiants at Low .
251 theywilldescribedbedifferentthroughthe ce the curve of observation is not itself parabolic .
In the case of arabolas , where tesistances aommon t ionstant ; hence the smaller becomes , the more open\mdash ; or less \mdash ; will be the parabola along the arc we havo to deal with .
This ultt is in accordance the curve in fig. 2 , and explains why , as I ; hveS already pointed out , the two for high and low mperatures ) are not only different , but also may differ from each there by any amount , within certain ]imits depending on the nature of the unknown curve of temperature and resistance .
I am greatly indebted to .
J. D. H. Dickson , .A .
, Fellow of !
Peterhouse , for help in the calculation and reduction of the observations .
" " Physical Constants at Low Temperatures .
( l)\mdash ; The Dellsities of Solid Oxygen , Nitrogen , Hydrogen , etc By Professor JAMES DEWAB , M.A. , .D .
, IJ .
Sc. , .
Received March 9 , \mdash ; Read March 17 , 1904 .
1 .
The following } ) eriments on the solid densities of oxygen , i.nitrogen and hydrogen were rried out as part of a former investigation dealing with gaseous densities at low temperatures .
The method adopted was to measure the volumes of the gases sucked into a cooled space of known capacity , when the temperature was such as in the first place to induce liquefaction and finally solidification .
For such experiments to be successful the rate of liquefaction and the cooling must be under thorough control , otherwise the cooled space may not get completely filled with solid .
Further , the volume of gas condensed ougbt to be as large as possible , in any case about 20 litres , in order to diminish errors inseparable from the mode of manipulation .
The inertia of the bell-jars of the large gas-holders causes some variation in the pressure ; and errors of their calibration , and want of uniformity of temperature in the mass of gas , are all important factors .
As my object was to ascertain experimentally the limiting density in the solid state , ths tion of these variations was not so important as it would have been for the tudy of fluid The dry purified gas was contained in a gas-holder cormected by a ( .
pipe with a glass bulb of 20 or 30 c.c. capacity , sealed to a narrow tube some 10 cm .
long , with a glass stop-cock at the end .
The .
and Nitrogen Vapour at the Boiling } np to this point , which is to be filled with liquid or solid after was antecedently carefully calibrated .
The glass stop-cock on projecting part of the glass lube outside the vacuum vessel enable the rate of the gas supply to be under complete control .
The difficulties were those of manipulation .
The temperatures employed were the boiling point of oxygen , ; the boiling point of nitrogen , ; the melting point ob nitrogcn , ; the boiling point of hydrogen , ; hydrogen boilingr ; lmder 76 mm. of pressure taken as ; and hydrogen ( solid ) under , ) mm. of pressnre taken as Allowance for the contraction of the bulb was made by as the coefficient of contracbion ( cubical ) of the glass .
is possible that going to very low temperatures ( below this coefficient ought to be less , such as .
An estimate ) of the difference between the two would come within the range of errors , consequently the former value which was adopted in the earlier ) investigationS was retained .
The weight of 1 litre of oxygen at C. uIlder 7 mm. pressuren was taken as grammes , of nitrogen as grammes , and of ) hydrogen as gramme .
The observations and results are give1l in the following tables:\mdash ; Where the temperature Centigrade of the condensed gas in flask at the time of observation .
volume of gas in litres at temperature C. and pressure .
mm. density of the condensed gas at C. The volume of the flask at C. was c.c. Coefficient of expansion of glass , taken as Weight of 1 litre of oxygen at C. and 760 mm. , taken as grammes .
sical Constants at Low tperatures .
Table II.\mdash ; Nitrogen .
The same notation is used as in Table I. The volume of the flask at C. was c.c. Coefficient of expansion of glass , : Weight of 1 litre of nitrogen at C. and 7 mm. , Table III.\mdash ; Hydrogen .
The same notation is used as in Table I. The volume of the flask at C. was c.c. Coefficient of expansion of glass , Weight of 1 litre of hydrogen at C. mm. , } as 2 .
It is of advantage to estimate the effects of an error , or of any reading that may have been taken roughly .
Taking the notation already employed , and putting for the weight of llitre of the gas at C. and 760 mm. , then the weight of gas used is and if be the volume of the flask up to the mark some ordinary temperature C. , and its volume at the temperature Centigr.ade of the observations , then ' where is the cubical coefficient of expanbion of the glass .
Hence , the density of the substance at the time of observation is Physi , al C'onstants at lioxo .
255 a temperature as for oxygen we may onsider its gaseous density to be practically negligible .
Hence one polnt 's rectilineal diameter for oxygen will be , at , a density equal to , the of that given in No. 4 , Table I. In iormer papers I found the { : density of liquid oxygen at its boiling poiut to be , and of !
gaseous oxygen at the same point to ] ) .the sum of these !
: .
is which gives another point on lIatthias 's diameter at Thus Matthias 's diameter for oxygen is .
( 3 ) , and taking the critical temperature as absolute , we get the critical density to be 04407 , agreeing notal ) with the usually accepted value .
The inference from this is that the of solid oxygen at the boiling point of hydrogen is The results for nitrogen , taken at three temperatures , do not warrant the deduction of a linear relation between and , especially as on plotting the observations the concavity of the liquid density : curve though slight is quite apparent .
vever , there are two oservations at temperatures so low that the corresponding gaseous densities may be neglected , thus enabling us to construct a Matthias diameter .
At the boiling point of hydrogen , the of the Matthias line is therefore very nearly at the melting point of nitroge11 the is Hence the Iatthias diameter . .
( ) , which for the itical temperature gives the critical density as .
This agrees very well with the value deduced ) Iatthias from Wroblewski 's liquid densities , , though it is somewhat higher than the value which he deduced from the theory of corresponding states .
Only three obserl-ations have been obtained for hydrogen , tvhich again lie neal.ly on a straight line , but nevertheless present a very slight concavity to the axis of ture .
If reat the two lowest densities as have done with nitrogen , get for the Matthias diameter the line .
( 5 ) , whence the annexed table ) of critical deltsities accol d , to the temperatures chosen for the temperatures .
Berthelot gives an estimate for the critical density as , and qnotes } 's critical temperature as , two closely with the numbers in this table .
We are , therefore , justified *'Mem .
Soc. Roy .
des .
Sci. de Liege , ' rics , 1899 .
'Le point critiqu des purse , ' Prof. J. Dewar .
determinations .
ameter tondensed gases ansity aoint cected iwith corresponding 1iquid densities , thqthes.greement wIatthias diameter eroxi aumes .
approxlmately the tangent of the liquid density curve near the$ absolute zero , and therefore is the specific volume at absolute zero .
Hence from the above equations for Matthias 's diameter , if molecular volume at absolute zero , we have for oxygen , for nitrogen , and for hydrogen .
The oxygen and nitrogen molecular volumes at absolute zero probably err by defect ; but the hydrogen result must be taken as very the true value .
We may compare these values with the results of theoretical investigation .
Guldberg*gives for the molecular volume at zero of oxygen , and of nitrogen ; and Berthelot 's values for the same gases respectively are and .
From Baly and Donnan 's equabions for oxygen , nitrogen , carbonic oxide and argon , deduced from observations within the range of temperature ] we find the following values for the molecular volumes at bsolute zero : oxygen ; nitrogen ; carbonic oxide ; argon Again , the Waterston-Avenarius formula connecting temperature and fluid volume , namely , ( 6 ) , where A is the critical temperature , gives the following equations , from Baly and Donnan 's results , * ' Zeit . .
Phys. Chem 1895 , vol. 16 , p. 7 .
'Comptes Rendus , ' Nlarch , 1900 .
'Journ .
Chem. Soc July , 190 pp. 911\mdash ; 914 .
Physical Constants at Low Terrvperatures .
257 Oxygen , Nitrogen , Carbonic oxide , : Argon , This same formula has been adopted by Iallet and Friderich , ubjectt to the modification that A is a unique temperature to be deterined for each substance from experiment .
On applying it to twentysubstances , studied by Sydney Young , they find that A is somewhat than the critical t , emperature and that is always .
very nearly to .
Bal.y and Donnan 's observations glve rlse to these Waterston-Mallet equations:\mdash ; Oxygen , itrogen , Carbonic oxide , Argon , With assumed values for , in the neighbourhood of the of teluperature in which we look for the critical temperature , two -Mallet formulae were constructed for hydrogen based on the results of Table III , namely:\mdash ; .
Assuming that for liquids Waals 's equation may be written ( 7 ) , an assumption which has been employed by G. N. and others , the results of Table III give for hydrogen , with this equat on , and hence For comparison these values may be arranged in tabnlar form thus : * ' Arch. Sci. ) .
et Not July , 190 'Amer .
Aoad .
Arts and Sci 1900 , vol. 35 , pp. 1\mdash ; 27 .
; and hydrogen with nitrogen we have , hence , king the mean , we have for hydrogen .
Nol Van der 's theory makes , but experiment seems to require to be equal to , and when is measured in atmospheres , for hydrogen , for which , therefore , ' Continuity , \amp ; c ( translalion ) , p. 491 .
Before leaving these resuIts we may write the Rankine equation in Van der Waals 's form , namely , ' where and the reduced pressure and temperature , and Van der WaaIs 's is , or with the above result , , about hall the usual value of .
In like manner Trouton 's constant , the ratio of the molecular latent heat to the absolute temperature of the boiling point , is or , again only about half the usual value .
In this connection we may refer to Olzewski 's experimental observa tion of the temperature , bsolute , at which the Joule-Thomson effect vanishes when the expansion is from a great pressure , in this instance between 110 and 117 atmospheres .
With the usual Van der Waals 's notation we may express the connection between this inversion temperature and the c1itical temperature in either of the forms , ( 9 ) , or ( 10 ) , the former equation shows that for small pressures and consequent values of so great that may be neglected in comparison with the critical temperature is 4/ 27 of the temperature of inversion .
But 's formula , are still farther from the value we expect .
In part explanation of this ilure it is to be noted that these rmulae are but the best approximations we have at hand , ture rxpect temperature .
Again , for a very large umber of bodies the product of , the efficient of expansion at the boiling the crltlcal temperais constant and about to 1 Thus for oxygen from equation ( 3 ) , we have .
For itrogen we get , but for hydrogen ye have and even if we take the critical tem:rature as high as 42 , only ches 0 7 .
There are , therefore , as as we can see at , and theoretical can aid us , great departures by hydrogen from what are fairly general resutts .
Van der Trouton 's constant are each only about half the usual ; and we have now found , from the consideration of the point of inversion of the Joule-Thomson effect , and of the prodnct , variations than the average from the values we should have expected .
Further 1 pxperiment will be necessary before these discrepancies can be leared up .

