]\gt ; .
G. H. Darwin on Geological , the equation is ] , and the modular equation as by the elimination from the two quadric equations in fact presents itself in the furm JIarch ] 4 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read : I. " " On Professor Haughton 's Estimate of Time By GEORGE H. DARWIN , M.A. , Fellow of College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1878 .
In a paper recently read before the Boyal Society , *Professor Haughton has endeavoured by an ingenious line of argument to give an estimate of the time which may have elapsed in the history of the earth .
The results attained by him are , if generally accepted , of the very greatest interest to geologists , and on that account his method merits a rigorous examination .
The object , therefore , of the present note is to criticise the applicability of his results to the case of the earth ; and I conceive that my ) criticism is either rect , and will meet its just fate of refutation , or else is destructive of the estimate of geological time .
Professor ument m be summarised as follows : \mdash ; The impulve elevation of a continent would produce a suddcn placemcnb of the earth 's axis of greatest moment of inertia .
Immediately after the earchquake , the axis of rotation no longer coincidelltvith the principal axis , will , according to dynamical principles , begin describing a cone round the incipal { , and the completc circle of the cone will be described about days .
the ocean not being rigidly connected with tho nucleus , tide will be cstablished , which by its with tend * ' ' Notes on .
No. III .
On ) of finding to the Dnration of Pcriods " " .
Ro Soc vol. xxvi , ) December .
180 Mr. G. H. Darwin on Professor Haughton 's [ Mar. 14 , to diminish the angle of the cone described by the instantaneous axis round the axis : in other words , the " " wabble\ldquo ; set up by the earthquake will gradually die away .
Then by means of Adams and Delaunay 's estimate of the aIteration of the length of day , which is attributed to tidal friction , Professor Haugbton obtains a numerical value for the frictional effect of the residual tidal current. .
He then applies this to the 306-day tide , and deduces the time to reduce a " " wabble\ldquo ; of given magnitude to any extent .
He is of opinion that if , at the present time , the instantaneous axis of rotation of the earth were describing a circle of more than 10 feet in diameter at the earth 's surface , then the phenomenon could not escape detection by modern astrollomicnl instruments .
From the absence of any such inequality he concludes , after numerical calcula .
tion , " " if Asia and Europe were manufactnred per , causing a sudden displacement of the axis of figure through 69 miles , that this event caTlnot have happened at an epoch less than 641,000 years before the present time , and that this event may have occurred at an epoch much more remote He then passes on to consider the case where the elevation takes place by a number of smaller impulses instead of by one large one .
He treats first the case of " " 69 geological convulsions , each of which displaced axis of figure through one mile and where " " the radius of the wabble\ldquo ; is " " reduced from one mile to 5 feet in the interval between each successive convulsions ; \ldquo ; and , secondly , the case where " " the lncrease of this radius is exactly destroyed by friction during each ] , so that the radius of 5 feet continues constant In the first case he finds that the total time occupied by the manufacture of ; and Asia is millions of years , and also that " " no , altering the position of the axis of figure through no mile , can have taken place within the past 400,000 years And the second case , he that the same evation would occupy 4,170 millions of years .
A little he adds : " " It is extremely improbable that the continent of Asia and Europe was formed per salfnm , and therefore our minor limit of time is probably far short of the reality It appears these that Professor hton is of opinion hat a of smallcr impulses at short intervals will necessarily crease the radius of the " " wabble ; \ldquo ; but it is not very clear to mc whether he means that the radius of the " " wabble " " would be the same by whatever series of impulses the p1incipal axis moved from one position to another .
Now , I that it is by no means necessary that a sccond impulse succeeding a first should meant the radius of the " " abble it , indeed , annihilate it .
I that by properly timed impukes the radius of the " " oble \ldquo ; might be made Estimate eological Time .
181 great as if the whole change took place by a single convulsion .
But where the impulses take at hazard there will be a average eflect on the dius of the " " wabble which , as far as I can see , Professor makes no attempt to determine .
It seems , therefore , an assumption that suffic.ient time must elapse betweell the successive impnlses to reduce the radius of the " " wabble\ldquo ; to 5 feet , for if the impulses took place more frequently they tend to some extent to counteract one another .
If this assumption is unjustifiable , then Professor 's cstimate of time falls with it .
In my papcl on the " " Influence of Changes on the Earth 's Axis of Rotation , \ldquo ; I considered the effects of a continuous distortion of the earth .
The results there attained would , of course , been identical , had 1 considered ) of a series of infinitely small and infinitely lent earthquakes .
I presume Profcssor hton will a mc in thinking this supposition more consonant with science than the larger which he postulates .
I will show , from the results of my paper , that in etrccts hatever of tidal , Asia and Europc ) been gradually upheaved in ears , .
any " " wabble " " sufficiently large to be detected , and , moreover , that at no time the elevation could the " " abble\ldquo ; have been detected had astronomers been in existence to make observations ; and further , that under certain not improbable suppositions , this estimate of time may be largely reduced .
Let be the a velocity of the principal axis elatively to the solid , arising from the continuous elevation of the continent ; ?
the velocity of rotation ; , A the greatest and least principal moments inertia of the earth ; and Then , in section 2 of my paper , I show that the extremity of the instantaneous axis describes a circle at the 's surface in 306 dnys , and that this circle passes through the of the ) axis , and touches the along which the axis is with velocity in consequence of the postulated geological change .
Strictly , the curve described instnntaneous axis , is a trochoid , the circIe travels in tbc ' with the principal axis ; but motion of the circle is ) slow pared with thnt of the instantancous axis along its arc , th it is ) convenient to that the instantnneous axis describes its ition .
ft must be circle is unlike the " " wabble\ldquo ; sidered by Dr. Hauo as ) xtremity of tlJe P axis lics its arc of at * t.lxvii , pt .
1 , 1 ) .
271 .
182 Mr. G. H. Darwin on Time .
[ Mar. 14 , centre .
It is aJso shown in the same section that the diametex of circle is equal to I will now suppose that the geological changes begin suddenly from rest , and roceed at such a rate that the variations in the position of the axis are lmperceptible to astronomical observation .
I will suppose , therefore , that the extremity of the instantaneous axis ever ulore than 5 feet distant from the extremity of the principal axlS .
Now , 5 feet at the earth 's surface , subtends very nearly at the earth 's centre , and , therefore , to find on this supposition , must be put equal to is an .
angular velocity of in 306 days , and if we wish to cxpress seconds of arc per annum , mus6 be expressed in those units , and must be expressed in circular measure .
Thus very nearly .
Therefore , is an angular velocity of ( or 69 miles ) in 19,200 years .
But , according to Professor Haughton , 69 miles is the displacement of the earth 's , due to the elevation of Europe and Asia ; hence , at this rate of elevation , Europe and Asia would have een heaved up 19,200 years .
Now , if the elevaiion be supposed to stop suddenly , then the instantaneous axls cannot , at the time of the stoppage , be more than 5 feet distant from the axis of iigure , and it may even be coincident with it .
Therefore the stoppage cannot set up a " " wabble\ldquo ; of more than 10 feet in diameter , and it may set up none at all .
But even this " " wabble\ldquo ; of 10 feet , would , according to Professor Haughton , be impel'ceptible , and a fortiori the circl clrcle of 5 feet in diameter described in the course of the elevation , would be imperceptible .
On any of the followlng suppositions , the elevation might be much more rapid , without increasing the residual " " wabble " " :\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The stoppage of the elevation to take place at a time when the instantaneous axis is separated from the principal axis by a small angle . .
The elevation partly counterbalanced by simultaneous elevations other parts of the world , so that the upheaval of Europe and Asia would not displace the pole of figure by so much as 69 miles .
The elevation partly or .
produced by ffie intumesccnce of the strata lmmediately underlying those continents .
( See VI of my paper above referred to .
) ( 4 .
) The elevation no uniform but more rapid in the earlicr 1878 .
] On Conductire Properties of Ice .
183 porbion of the time , so magnitude of the " " wabble\ldquo ; would be reduced by the friction of the 306-day tide ; for we are by no meanq ompelled to believe that that inequality of motion must always have [ .emained as small as it is at present .
It appears to me , from these tions , that the continents of Europe and Asia might have been elevated in very much less thttn 20.000 years , and yet no record of the fact in the present motion of the earth .
Therefore , if my solution of the problem is correct , it is that Professor ' method can give us no clue to the times which have elapsed in the geoIogical history of the earth .
II .
" " Some Experiments on Conductive Properties of Icc , made Discovery \ldquo ; By Staff Surgcon B. .
Communicated by Professor F.R.S. Received In attempting a series of experiments for determiniug the rate of conduction of heat sea and fresh-water ice , I have as closely as possible to follow the suggestions made by Professor Tyndall in page 34 of the " " Scientific Instrucbions for the Arctic xpedition.\ldquo ; With this view , I have constructed the simple apparatus in the diagram .
It consists of a wooden ) , 29 inches in by 9 in breadtl ] , on which are fixed 1lpright

