III .
An Experiment showing , that the Springs or Constituent Parts of Air are capable to suffer such disorder , by a violent impulse , as to require time to recover their Natural State ; by Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. THE foregoing Experiment , being so very odd in its appearance , gave me the Curiosity to enquire a little farther into the matter of Fact , and to try whether Air could be capable of being Wounded , ( if I may call it so ) , or to suffer such a disorder of Parts , by a violent impulse , as to require time to recover their Natural State : I devised the following Experiment .
I took my Condensing Engine , ( which is so well known to this Society , I shall not need to describe it here ) ; into the bottom part of its Brass Receiver I put about half a Pint of Water ; then the upper part being screwed strongly on , I threw into it , with the Syringe , about 3 or 4 Atmospheres of Air ( as near as I could guess ) , suffering it to remain in that state sometime more than an Hour ; then letting out as much of the Air ( by taking off my Syringe ) as would readily depart , I immediately screwed on in its Place a Box of Leather Collars , through which past a small Glass Tube , whose lower Orifiice was plunged under the Surface of the included Water .
I found in a very little time the Water had ascended in the Tube near a Foot , and continued rising for some time , till it had reached near 16 Inches ; which plainly shows , that the Springs of Air , by being somewhat over bent , do not presently ( altho at Liberty ) recover their Pristine State .
And were they to suffer a more violent compressure , and to remain for a Week , Month , or a Year , in the same State , I doubt not but according to the length of time , and degrees of Condensation , a proportional time would be required to recover them to their Natural State again .
But what is the Force made use of in this Experiment , in comparison to that of Fired Gunpowder , where the suddenness , and violentness of the Impulse , is unaccountable ; however , it serves well to confirm the Suggestion I had , that Air might so suffer in its Parts by Force or an Unnatural Extention of them , as to require time to recover their Pristine Natural State .
Upon a Repetition of the same Experiment , only the Condensed Air remained in the same state , as at first injected , for about 18 Hours : then letting out the Air as before , the Premention 'd Box with its Tube was screwed on ; and upon Observation I found , that as the Springs of the Air did unbend themselves , so they pressed more and more on the Surface of the included Water , which raised it higher and higher in the Tube , as they approached nearer their Natural State .
This continued for about 6 Hours , at which time the little Tube was accidentally broke , and our farther Observations for that time frustrated .

