" Experiments on the Action of Food upon the Respiration .
" By EDWA1RD SMITH , M.D. , LL. B. , L.R.C.P. , AssistantPhysician to the Hospital for Consumption , Bromptonc Communicated by Sir BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. Received January 6 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) The author had proved in his former Paper that the maximum influence of food is observed within two and a half hours after its * By its action on aniline , ammonia is obtained .
I In its action on the amides .
t In the case of asparagine , benzamide , &amp;c. exhibition ; also that the action of food is in two degrees ; viz. that which sustains the respiratory changes to the minimum line ( or that which occurs with complete abstinence ) , and that which is observed as the maximum point to which the respiratory function is increased after ordinary meals .
His aim in this communication was to show the variations in the influence of food between these two lines .
His method of inquiry was to take a moderate quantity of a single article of food alone , before breakfast , whilst the body was at rest and in the sitting posture , and to determine the influence every ten or fifteen minutes during a period of about two hours .
He noted the amount of carbonic acid exhaled and of air inhaled , with the rate of respiration and pulsation , and also the temperature and the barometric pressure of the atmosphere .
The apparatus employed was that described in his former Paper , and the gentlemen who submitted themselves to the investigation were chiefly the author and Mr. Moul , with Professor Frankland , F.R.S. , Mr. Hoffman , and Mr. Reid , who engaged in a few experiments .
The following foods were subjected to inquiry:1 .
The starch series , viz. arrowroot , arrowroot and butter , arrowroot and sugar , commercial starch , wheat starch , gluten , bread , oat .
meal , rice , rice and butter , potato .
2 .
The fat series , viz. butter , olive oil , cod-liver oil .
3 .
Sugars , viz. cane sugar , cane sugar and butter , cane sugar with acids and alkalies , grape sugar , sugar of milk .
4 .
The milk series ( cows ' milk ) , viz. new milk , skimmed milk , casein , casein and lactic acid , lactic acid , sugar of milk and lactic acid , cream .
5 .
Alcohols , viz. alcohol , brandy , whisky , gin , rum , sherry wine , port wine , stout , and ale .
6 .
The tea series , viz. tea , green and black , hot and cold , in various quantities , and with acids and alkalies ; coffee , coffee-leaves , chichory , and cocoa .
7 .
Some other nitrogenous substances , viz. gelatin , albumen , fibrine , almond-emulsion .
The author found that pure starch scarcely increased the amount of carbonic acid evolved , but the combination of starch with gluten and sugar in the cereals caused an increase of about 2 grains per minute .
Wheat flour , oatmeal , and rice had similar effects , but potato had a less enduring influence .
Fats lessened the amount of carbonic acid evolved , and when taken with starch , the cereals , or sugar , somewhat lessened their power to produce carbonic acid .
Fats increased pulsation .
Sugars increased the carbonic acid evolved to the maximum extent of from 1 to 2grains per minute in about half an hour .
Cane sugar was more powerful than milk sugar , and still more so than grape sugar .
Acids increased the maximum influence of sugar .
Milk increased both the pulsation and the carbonic acid , and the latter to a maximum of nearly 2 grains per minute .
All the component elements except lactic acid had a similar influence , but new milk was much more powerful than any of its elements separately , or than any artificial combination of its elements .
The effect of milk differed in degree , and of casein in direction , upon the author and Mr. Moul .
Tea and coffee increased the production of carbonic acid to the extent of from 1 ?
to 3 grains per minute .
Tea was more powerful than coffee , and coffee than chichory .
Cocoa was as powerful as coffee .
Coffee-leaves lessened the amount of carbonic acid .
Acids added to tea rendered it more stimulating , and alkalies made it more soothing .
Alcohols differed in their effect , according both to different kinds and samples of the same kind .
Spirits of wine always increased the quantity of carbonic acid evolved to a maximum of less than I grain per minute .
Rum commonly increased it , and sometimes to 12 grain per minute .
Ale and stout increased it to upwards of 1 grain per minute .
Sherry wine ( 3 oz. ) commonly slightly increased it .
Brandy and gin , and particularly the latter , always decreased it .
Whisky varied in its effects .
The inhalation of the volatile elements of wine and spirits , and particularly of fine old port wine , lessened the quantity of carbonic acid , and increased the amount of vapour exhaled .
Gluten , casein , gelatin , albumen , and fibrin increased the amount of carbonic acid exhaled , the two former to about 1 grain per minute , and the last to about 2 grain per minute .
Almond-emulsion did not increase it .
From these facts the author infers that there is a class of foods which might be called " excito-respiratory ; " a class which embraces nearly all nitrogenous foods , and is almost entirely composed of these substances .
The non-excitants are starch , fat , some alcohols , and coffee-leaves .
The respiratory excitants are sugar , milk , the cereals , potato , tea , coffee , chichory , cocoa , alcohol , rum , ales , some wines , gluten , casein , gelatin , fibrin , and albumen .
Of the hydrocarbons , sugar acted very differently from starch and fat .
All the " respiratory excitants " increased the depth , but not the rate of respiration .
Some of them acted with great rapidity ; as , for example , sugar and tea , which sometimes caused an increase of 1 grain of carbonic acid per minute in from five to eight minutes .
Others , as gluten and casein , acted with less rapidity .
In many , as tea and gluten , there was not a proportionate increase in the carbonic acid with increase in the quantity of the " excitant .
" Some of them , as tea , produced much greater effect when a small dose was frequently repeated , than when the whole quantity was given at once , and caused a much greater evolution of carbon than they supplied .
The duration of the increase was very different with different foods , but that with sugar was the least , and then that with tea , while that with the cereals and rum and milk was the greatest .
The amount of carbonic acid progressively increased at each examination until the maximum was attained ; after which it remained nearly stationary for some time , as with the cereals , or subsided rapidly to the basis quantity , as with sugar .
The paper was illustrated by a series of diagrams , and accompanlied by tables .

