XIX.-Consideration of the objections raised against the geometrical representation of the square roots of negative quantities .
By the Rev. JOHNWARREN , M.A. of Jesus College , Cambridge .
Communicated by THOMAS YOUNG , M.D. Foreign Secretary to the Royal Society .
Read February 19 , 1829 .
SOME years ago my attention was drawn to those algebraic quantities , which are commonly called impossible roots or imaginary quantities : it appeared extraordinary , that mathematicians should be able by means of these quantities to pursue their investigations , both in pure and mixed mathematics , and to arrive at results which agree with the results obtained by other independent processes ; and yet that the real nature of these quantities should be entirely unknown , and even their real existence denied .
One thing was evident respecting them ; that they were quantities capable of undergoing algebraic operations analogous to the operations performed on what are called possible quantities , and of producing correct results : thus it was manifest , that the operations of algebra were more comprehensive than the definitions and fundamental principles ; that is , that they extended to a class of quantities , viz. those commonly called impossible roots , to which the definitions and fundamental principles were inapplicable .
It seemed probable , therefore , that there was a deficiency in the definitions and fundamental principles of algebra ; and that other definitions and fundamental principles might be discovered of a more comprehensive nature , which would extend to every class of quantities to which the operations of algebra were applicable ; that is , both to possible and impossible quantities , as they are called .
I was induced therefore to examine into the nature of algebraic operations , with a view , if possible , of arriving at these general definitions and fundamental principles : and I found , that , by considering algebra merely as applied to geometry , such principles and definitions might be obtained .
The fundamental principles and definitions which I arrived at were these : that all straight lines drawn in a given plane from a given point , in any direction whatever , are capable of being algebraically represented , both in length and direction ; that the addition of such lines ( when estimated both in length and direction ) must be performed in the same manner as composition of motion in dynamics ; and that four such lines are proportionals , both in length and direction , when they are proportionals in length , and the fourth is inclined to the third at the same angle that the second is to the first .
From these principles I deduced , that , if a line drawn in any given direction be assumed as a positive quantity , and consequently its opposite , a negative quantity , a line drawn at right angles to the positive or negative direction will be the square root of a negative quantity , and a line drawn in an oblique direction will be the sum of two quantities , the one either positive or negative , and the other , the square root of a negative quantity .
This may be illustrated by the following examples ( 1 ) Let it be required to find the length and direction of J ; First to find the direction of J-1 , ,/ J-I is evidently a mean proportional between 1 , and 1 ; Now by the definition of proportion , if 4 lines be proportionals , the fourth is inclined to the third at the same angle that the second is to the first,.* .
if three lines be proportionals , the third is inclined to the second at the same angle that the second is to the first,. .
a mean proportional between any two lines must lie in such a direction as to bisect the angle at which those lines are inclined to each other , .
1j-i bisects the angle at which 1 is inclined to + 1 ; But 1 is inclined to +1 at 180 ?
, j. ^/ -1 is inclined to +1 at 900 ; Next to find the length of ^--1 ; Since / 1 is a mean proportional between +1 ad 1 , and I and 1 are equal in length , J-1 is equal in length either to +1 or 1 ; ... _-1 is a line equal in length to + 1 , and drawn at right angles to + 1 .
242 Hence , if a be a positive quantity , a line equal in length to a and drawn at right angles to +1 will be equal to a / -l .
( 3 ) Let it be required to find the length and direction of / -T ; / = / ~j--V 1,. .
c/ --1 is a mean proportional between +1 and / -1l , .
/ 1 is equal in length to + 1 ; Also it has been proved that ^/ is inclined to +1 at 90 ?
, .
' .
~/ '1 is inclined to +1 at 45 ?
;. .
/ /-1 is a line equal in length to + 1 , and inclined to +1 at 45 ? .
( 4 ) As / f-1 is a line drawn in an oblique direction , let it be required to find an expression for it , considered as the sum of two quantities , the one either positive or negative , and the other the square root of a negative quantity .
Since , / -1 is equal in length to +1 and is inclined to +1 at 45 ?
, and addition is performed in the same manner as composition of motion , = cos 45 ?
+ sin 45 ?
J-i 11 v'/ 2 +2 ( 5 ) To show that+ -~ J--1 is a true value of / -T according to common algebra ; Let =t , then +1= 0 , I It an equation , one of whose roots is -2+ ~_ l , / 2+ 12 / v ~-~ is a true value of / -1I .
In like manner other examples might be given , but these will suffice to illustrate the definition ; and for further information I must refer to a treatise which I published on this subject in April 1828 .
Since the publication of that work , several objections have been made to the geometrical representation of the square roots of negative quantities .
First , that impossible roots are merely signs of impossibility ; that , if , in the solution of any question , we arrive at an equation , all whose roots are impossible , the only conclusion to be drawn , is , that the question involves an impos2 2 243 sibility ; and therefore it is absurd to suppose that the square roots of negative quantities can have any real existence .
A second objection is , that there is no necessary connexion between algebra and geometry , and therefore that it is improper to introduce geometric considerations into questions purely algebraic ; and that the geometric representation , if any exists , can only be analogical , and not a true algebraic representation of the roots .
A third objection is , that this geometric representation , even if it be a correct representation of the roots , is merely a matter of curiosity , and can be of no use to mathematicians.-The object of this paper is to answer these objections .
To the first objection , that impossible roots are merely signs of impossibility , it may be replied , that , though they are so in some questions they are not necessarily so in all , and that in this respect they resemble fractional and negative roots .
It is obvious , that in all equations derived from suppositions , which involve an impossibility or absurdity , the impossibility or absurdity will show itself in the result of the operation : and this may appear as well by a fractional root or by a negative root , as by a root commonly called impossible : thus , if we have a question , which from its nature does not admit of a fractional answer , and in resolving this question we arrive at an equation , which only admits of fractional roots , these fractional roots are in this case a proof , that the question involves an impossibility .
Also if a question does not admit of a negative answer , and in resolving it we arrive at an equation which only admits of negative roots , in this case also we conclude that the question involves an impossibility .
So , in like manner , if in resolving a question which does not admit of what are now commonly called impossible roots as answers , we arrive at an equation , all of whose roots are impossible , we must conclude , that the question involves an impossibility ; and we have no greater reason for inferring from the last case , that what are called impossible roots have no real existence , than we have for inferring from the two former cases , that fractional or negative quantities have no real existence .
This will be rendered clearer by an example : Let a body revolve in a circle by the action of a centripetal force , which varies inversely as the nth power of the distance ; and let it be required to find the height from which a body must fall to the circle to acquire the velocity of the body revolving in the circle .
In this example , if n be greater than 3 , the velocity of the body revolving in the circle is greater than the velocity which can be acquired by falling from any distance however great ; therefore the question involves an impossibility : therefore , if we obtain an equation for determining the height from which a body must fall to acquire a velocity equal to the velocity in the circle , the equation must , when n is greater than 3 .
show , in some way , that the question involves an impossibility .
Let r be the radius of the circle , and x the height ( measuring from the centre ) from which the body must fall to acquire the velocity in the circle ; then we obtain the following equation .
_e_ x____ rn--1 ~ n1 n-1 e From which we deduce -2 .
r ' = 0 .
3n Now , by the nature of the question , x must be positive ; therefore whenever the above equation has no positive root , the question must involve an inmpossibility .
Let n= 5 , then x4 + r4 = , an equation , all whose roots are what are called impossible roots ; therefore , since the equation has no positive root , the question involves an impossibility .
Next , let n= 6 , then x5 +2 r5 = 0 , an equation , one of whose roots is negative , and the other four what are called impossible roots ; therefore in this case also , since the equation has no positive root , the question involves an impossibility .
Therefore a negative root may be a sign of impossibility , as well as what is called an impossible root .
In like manner other examples might be given , from which it would appear , that , in some cases , fractional roots may also be signs of impossibility .
Therefore we have no stronger reasons a priori to determine , that , what are called impossible roots , have no real existence , because , in some cases , they are signs of impossibility , than we have to determine that fractional or negative roots have no real existence , because , in some cases , they also are signs of impossibility .
To the second objection , viz , that there is no necessary connexion between algebra and geometry , it may be answered , that there is a connexion between what are called impossible roots and the series for the circumference of the circle , which connexion may be proved on principles purely algebraic , without the intervention of any geometric considerations .
245 This will appear from the expansion of 1x ; One of the values of 1T is 1 , This value is not a function of , But 1t has other values , which are functions of x ; For example , let = - , and let 1 y , then y3 1= 0 , an equation , whose roots are 1 , --3 22 Next , let -x , and let 1 =y , then 41= 0 , an equation whose roots are 1 , , 1 , 1 - , / --i ; In like manner it will appear , if other values be given to x , that 1 will have values which are dependent upon the values of x ; that is , 1 is a function of x ; . .
1 ' may be expressed in the form A+B+C x2 + &amp;c. where A , B , C , &amp;c. are constant quantities independent of the value of x ; First , to find the value of A , Let x= 0 , then 1 ?
= A , But 1 ?
= 1,.- .
A= I ; .= .
=1+BIz+C2+ &amp;c. ; Next , to find the law of the series , 1 Y.== 1 X+ , B2 2 B3 2x. .
the series is of the form , 1+Bx+ 1.2 +.2.3 + &amp; Cc .
; B2 n2 x " Next , to find the value of B , I " 1+ Bnx +12+ &amp;c. l_1 " 1 .
m1 Let +1 m , then 1 -1 -m..1 1 ?
= ( 1 l ) +.(1 -m ) ; ( 1 -m ) Let M=m lm2 + m3 4 m+ &amp;c. M ' =m -m2 -m mm4 &amp; C. Then ( 1 +m ) =+ 12 + &amp;c. ( 1 m ) =1 M'x &amp;c. i X I ' .
_ ( 1-+M +12 + &amp;c. ).(l-M ' x2 &amp; .
) 246 M ' ?
xa += + ( MM')+ M.M 2+ &amp;c. Bg9 n ' xm + .
+B nx 2 + &amp;c. 1 ( M-MI ) x+ ( M -M'I &amp;c. =2{ " ?
1.2m+ &amp;c. ' Bn M-M'{ _m +mm2 +m3- &amp; c Bn= 1+~a m }m m3 q-+ &amp;c. 21 -m +++ &amp; C. 1^---1 Let n ; then m --Let 1 =y ; then y6= 0 , an equation , one of whose roots is 2--- .
substituting this value for 1 , I+ 2 I_ 4 -3 ( / 3 +-1)V / ) _+ -l 3 V3 + V/ -3 +4/ -3 2 +1 _ ( v3 ?
+ A.+ v1 Letii c_ B=cl~+ +/ -1 .
^3 ^/ 5'B* -= 2 { V/ -3( - ) -* ( 3+ &amp; ; c. }..B = 12 +.( ) -3 &amp; - ; the value of the circumf erence of a circle , whose radius is unity ; Let this series c , then B=c ^/ -1 , lu eC 2a th Car X3 ec X4 + &gt; * J1 -.2.3 + / 1 .
' 2 .
3 .
-4+ &amp; C. ' .
We have by means of mere algebraical operations , without the introduction of any geometrical considerations , expanded 1 " in a series , which involves c , the circumference of a circle whose radiius is unity .
And this series was obtained by substituting for " n one of its impossible values as they are called .
247 There is a connexion between what are called impossible roots and the circumference of the circle .
But by examining the series more accurately , we may find a greater connexion between the series and the properties of the circle c X ?
Cl x For 1+ 2 .
&amp;c. =C cos cx , Cs 35 X5 and cx + 13 &amp; .
= sin cx , 1.2.3 1.2.3..5. .
1= cos cx + sin czx.1Now lest there should be any error in the method of expanding 1 " as given above , let us try whether we can verify the last equation by some independent process ; Let =P , where p and q are whole numbers , and let 1=y then y= 1 , cC an equation , one of whose roots is cos + sin 1 , where c is the cirq p cunmference of a circle , whose radius is unity , 1q C. q q. ' .
1= cos + sin- .
q / 1 , qcppC= ( cos + sin. -l ) =cos c+sinc .
v , or I -= cos cx sin c. j--1 , the same equation as that obtained above by the expansion of 1P .
From what has just been proved , it appears that there is a connexion between the properties of the circle and the quantities commonly called impossible roots , that is between geometry and algebra ; therefore it is so far front being improper to introduce geometric considerations into questions purely algebraic , that it is to geometry we must look ( and to geometry alone as far as we know at present ) , if we expect to arrive at a true theory respecting the square roots of negative quantities .
It may be proper to observe here , that the object of the above investigation is not to expand all the values of 1 ' in a series , but merely to show that one 248 of them can be so expanded without the intervention of any geometric considerations , and to point out that the series obtained will involve c the circumference of the circle , and thus to prove that there is a connexion between algebra and geometry ; if the object had been to obtain all the values of 1 in a series , it would have been more convenient to have introduced geometrical considerations as in my treatise .
To the second part of this objection , viz. that the geometric representation can only be analogical and not a true algebraic representation of the roots ; it may be replied , that the geometric representation of the square roots of negative quantities rests on the same foundation as the geometric representation , or any other representation of the negative quantities themselves .
A negative quantity arithmetically considered is a mere absurdity , being the difference which arises from subtracting a greater quantity from a less ; but algebraists having found that operations might more easily be performed by considering negative quantities in the abstract , endeavoured to establish their real existence , and with this view they made the following hypotheses ; that , if a line drawn in one direction be represented by a positive quantity , a line drawn in the opposite direction will be represented by a negative quantity ; that the sum of a positive and a negative quantity is to be found by subtracting the less from the greater , and prefixing the sign of the greater ; that subtraction is to be performed by changing the sign of the quantity to be subtracted , and proceeding as in addition ; that the product of a positive and a negative quantity is negative , and the product of two negative quantities , positive ; and having made these hypotheses , they proved , by examining into the nature of algebraic operations , that the results arrived at by means of these hypotheses must be correct ; therefore they concluded that these were true hypotheses ; and their truth being established , they were admitted as fundamental principles of algebra : and in the same way other true hypotheses were established relative to the representation of negative quantities : such as ; if time to come be represented by a positive quantity , time past will be represented by a negative quantity , &amp;c. I call these algebraic principles , hypotheses ; for though most algebraists have considered them as propositions , and have endeavoured to establish their truth by direct demonstration , yet their reasoning is unsatisfactory , for they always treat of negative quantities as quantities to be subtracted , therefore their proofs are only applicable to the difference of two positive quantities , and not to negative quantities abstractedly considered .
These fundamental principles must therefore be looked upon as hypotheses introduced into algebra in order to give to negative quantities a representation and a real existence .
And in like manner , in order to arrive at the representation of the square roots of negative quantities , I have mae the following hypotheses : that all straight lines drawn in a given plane from a given point in any direction whatever , may be algebraically represented both in length and direction : thataddition is performed in the same manner as composition of motion in dynamics ; that four straight lines are proportionals , both in length and direction , when they are proportionals in length , and the fourth is inclined to the third at the same angle at which the second is inclined to the first : and I have by means of these hypotheses as a foundation , establisled all the common rules for performing algebraic operations , and thus have proved , that the results arrived-at by means of these hypotheses must be correct : therefore I conclude , that these are true hypotheses , and true in the same sense , that the hypotheses made by algebraists respecting the representation of negative quantities are true .
In fact , if there be a question , whether negative quantities can or cannot be represented geometrically ; the only way in which such a question can be solved , is by making certain hypotheses with respect to their geometric representation , and then showing that the results arrived at from these hypotheses must be correct : and in like manner if there be a question whether those quantities commonly called impossible can be geometrically represented , the question must be solved in the same way ; viz. by making certain hypotheses respecting them , and showing that the results arrived at by means of these hypotheses must be correct .
In this point of view , the definitions and fundamental principles which I have laid down in my treatise must be considered as mere hypotheses ; and mathematicians will be satisfied of their correctness when they see that the results agree in every respect with the results obtained by other independent processes .
To the third objection , viz. that the geometric representation of the square roots of negative quantities can be of no use to mathematicians , it will not be necessary to say much in reply .
In the works which have lately been written , either on pure or mixed mathematics , we may observe that great use , is made of impossible roots ; and we may fairly conclude that if these quantities are of so great service to mathematicians , even while they are ignorant of their real nature , they will be of much greater service when the true theory respecting them is known ; we may reasonably expect , that our knowledge of algebra will be increased when the nature of impossible roots is understood in the same manner as that of possible roots ; these are the general advantages which we shall derive from the geometric representation of the square roots of negative quantities : but there is one particular advantage , and that , one of the greatest importance , which arises from the definition of addition ; addition is performed in the same manner as composition of motion in dynamics , therefore any question in dynamics where the motion of the bodies is confined to one plane , becomes a mere question of algebra , the laws of motion being contained in the definitions of algebra .
Before I conclude this paper , it will be proper to take notice of two works which have appeared on this subject ; the first a paper in the Philosophical Transactions , for the year 1806 , p. 23 : entitled " M6moire sir les Quantit6s Imaginaires , par M. BU'E ; " the second , a work entitled " La vraie Th6orie des Quantit6s Negatives et des Quantites pr6tendues Imaginaires , par C. V. MOUREY , Paris , 1828 .
" I was not aware of the existence of M. BvE'E 's paper till November 1827 , when my treatise was in the press : at that time I read his paper , and also the article upon it in the Edinburgh Review of July 1808 .
M. BUE'E begins with stating that the negative sign has two different significations in algebra ; viz. that if algebra be considered as a universal arithmetic , the negative sign is a sign of subtraction , but that if algebra be considered as a mathematical language , the negative sign is a sign of a quality ; on this point he makes the following observations : 'Consid6r6s comme signs d'operations arithmetiques , + etsont les signs , run de raddition , lautre de la soustraction .
" " Consid6rds comme signs d ' operations g6om6triques , ils indiquent des directions oppos6es .
Si lun , par exemple , signify qu'une ligne doit etre tir6e de gauche A droite , 'autre signify qu'elle doit etre tir6e de droite a gauche .
" ... . .
" Mis devant un quantit6 , q , ils peuvent d6signer , comme je 'ai dit , deux operations arithm6tiques oppos6es dont cette quantit6 est le sujet .
Devant 2K2 251 cette meme quantit6 , ils peuvent d6signer deux qualit6s oppos6es ayant pour sujet les unit6s dont cette quantit6 est compos6e .
" Dans ' algebre ordinaire , c'est a dire , dans 1 ' alg6bre consider6e comme arithm6tique universelle , ou ron fait abstraction de tout espcce de qualit6 , les signs + et no peuvent avoir que la premiBre de ces significations " ... .
toutes les fois qu'on a pour r6sultat d'une op6ration un quantite pr6ced6e du sign - , il faut , pourque ce r6sultat ait un sens , y considerer quelque qualit6 .
Alors l'algebre no doit plus etre regardee simplement comme un arithm6tique universelle , mais comme un langue math6matique .
" He then proceeds to the sign : this he considers a sign of perpendicularity ; he argues that it is a mean proportional between +1 and 1 , and therefore must be a perpendicular ; he also gives another proof that it is a perpendicular ; he makes a square to revolve through 90 ?
about one of its angular points , and observes , that if the square is positive in its first situation , it will be negative after having moved through 90 ?
; therefore if the square in its first situation be represented by + 1 , it will in its second situation be represented by 1 , and its side will in the first case be represented by +1 or 1 , and in the second by + , / 1 or 1-1 ; but the side of the square has moved through 90 ?
; therefore he concludes that / 1 is a sign of perpendicularity .
In the above demonstration M. BUE'E applies his method of reasoning as well to areas as to lines ; but as in my treatise I have confined myself to the algebraical representation of lines , I will not make any observation respecting the force of this proof .
M. BUE'E afterwards proceeds to say , that though perpendicularity is properly the only quality indicated by s/ 1 , yet / 1 may be made to signify any other quality , provided we can reason respecting that quality in the same manner as we reason respecting perpendicularity ; he then gives examples illustrative of his theory : some of these examples I cannot understand ; others are more clear ; but in almost all there is one great defect , viz. he is obliged to introduce some arbitrary limitation into the question , in order to make the answer agree with the root of the equation : this arises from the want of a general geometrical definition of proportion or multiplication , which is necessary to render the theory complete : he also endeavours to prove that ( 1 )n =n / -1 ; but this I cannot comprehend .
However , notwithstanding these defects or errors , the general principles on which he reasons 252 are good ; he evidently proceeds on the principle , that whenever in the algebraic solution of any question , we arrive at imaginary quantities as answers , we must consider that the question might have been expressed in more general terms , and that the imaginary quantities are answers to the question in this extended sense .
This appears to me to be the true principle , and is analogous to our usual method of reasoning , when we arrive at a negative answer in resolving a question , which , from the manner in which it is expressed , only admits of positive answers .
The Edinburgh reviewers in their article on M. BuE'E'sS " memoir , " state their opinion with respect to the nature of the square roots of negative quan tities in these words : " The essential character of imaginary expressions is to denote impossibility ; and nothing can deprive them of this signification , nothing like a geometrical construction can be applied to them ; they are indications of the impossibility of any such construction , or of any thing that can be exhibited to the senses .
" As I have already answered this objection , it will not be necessary for me to make any further remarks on this point .
In considering the evidence adduced by M. BUE'E in support of his fundamental proposition , that ^/ -f1 expresses perpendicularity , the reviewers begin with giving his reasoning on that subject , viz. , / --1 is a mean proportional between +1 and 1 , and therefore a perpendicular ; and they observe with respect to his arguments , that " any imaginable conclusion might have been obtained in the same manner , the third line for example , needed not have been placed at right angles to the other two , but making an angle , suppose of 120 ?
with one , and of 60 ?
with the other ; it would still be a mean proportional between them , and its square would be therefore , according to the above method of reasoning equal to +1X1= 1 , so that the line itself would be equal to ^/ 1 , and thus , / 1 would denote not perpendicularity , or the situation in which a line makes the adjacent angles equal , but that in which it makes one of these angles double of the other ; the one of these arguments is just as good as the other , and neither of them of course is of any value .
" The above objection derives its force from the want of a definition of proportion in M. BUE'E'S C memoir , " as is evident from what has already been proved in this paper .
253 saw M. MOUREY'S work in December 1828 , and found that his method of considering the subject is nearly the same as the method which I have adopted in my treatise : but he has in his work a proof that every equation has as many roots as it has dimensions , which I have not in mine ; this proof with a very slight alteration I communicated to the Philosophical Society at Cambridge .
My reason for introducing an alteration was this : the author , after having taken ( in the figure which he makes use of ) as many points as the given equation has dimensions , and proved that round each point there is a curve which has certain properties , and that in each curve there is a line which will satisfy the conditions of the equation , concludes that there are as many lines which will satisfy the conditions of the equation as the equation has dimen sions ; which conclusion does not necessarily follow from the premises ; for one curve may surround two or more of the points in his figure , in which case he ought to have proved , that if any one of the curves surrounds m of the points , there will be m lines in that curve , which satisfy the conditions required , which he has not done , therefore his proof is in that part defective ; consequently an alteration was necessary ; and the alteration was easily made , as it is enough to prove , that an equation of n dimensions has one root , after which it may be depressed to an equation of n1 dimensions .
In all other respects the proof given by M. MOUREY is remarkably clear and satisfactory , and an example of the advantages which mathematicians may derive from a knowledge of the true theory of the quantities improperly called impossible or imaginary .

