The reading of a paper , entitled , " On the Function of the Medulla Oblongata and Medulla Spinalis , and on the Excito-motory System of Nerves/ ' By Marshall Hall , M.D. , F.R.S. , L. and E. , &amp; c , was resumed and concluded .
The author begins by observing that a former memoir of his , en ?
titled , " On the Reflex Function of the Medulla Oblongata and Me ?
dulla Spinalis , " published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833 , has been translated into German , and favourably spoken of by Professor Muller , of Berlin .
He states that his object in the present paper is to unfold what he calls a great principle in physiology - , namely , that of the special function , and the physiological and pathological action and reactions of the true spinal marrow , and of the excito-motory nerves .
The two experiments which he regards as affording the type of those physiological phenomena and pathological conditions , which are the direct effects of causes acting in the spinal marrow , or in the course of the motor nerves , are the following : ?
1 .
If a muscular nerve be stimulated , either mechanically by the forceps , or by means of gal ?
vanism passed transversely across its fibres , the muscle or muscles to which it is distributed are excited to contract .
ยง 2 .
The same result is obtained when the spinal marrow itself is subjected to the agency of a mechanical or galvanic stimulus .
The following experiment , on the other hand , presents the type of all the actions of the reflex func2o tion of the spinal marrow , and of the excito-motory system of nerves , and of an exclusive series of physiological and pathological phenomena : ?
If in a turtle , from which the head and sternum have been removed , we lay bare the sixth or seventh intercostal nerve , and stimulate it either by means of the forceps or galvanism , both the ante ?
rior and posterior fins , with the tail , are immediately moved with energy .
Hence the author infers the existence : 1st , of a true spinal marrow , physiologically distinct from the chord of intra-spinal nerves 5 2ndly , of a system of excito-motory nerves , physiologically distinct from the sentient and voluntary nerves : and , 3rdly , of currents of nervous influence , incident , upwards , downwards , and reflex with regard to the spinal marrow .
A revicw is then taken of the labours of preceding physiologists relative to the functions of the nervous system : in which the author criticises the reasonings of Whytt , Legallois , Mr. Mayo , Dr. Alison , and Professor Mullcr ; and illustrates his own peculiar views by several experiments and pathological observations , which appear to him to show that muscular movements may occur , under circumstances implying the cessation of sensation , volition , and every other function of the brain ; and that these phenomena are explicable only on the hypothesis that impressionsmade on a certain set of nerves , which he terms excitomotory , are conveyed to a particular portion of the spinal marrow belonging to that system , and are thence reflected , by means of certain motor nerves , upon certain sets of muscles , inducing certain actions .
The same actions may also be the result of impressions made directly either on the spinal marrow or on the motor nerves .
He accordingly considers that the whole nervous system may be divided into , ยง 1st , the cerebral , or the sentient and voluntary ; 2ndly , the true spinal , or the excitor and motor ; and , 3rdly , the ganglionic , or the nutrient , the secretory , &amp;c. The excito-motory system presides over ingestion and exclusion , retention and egestion , and over the orifices and sphincters of the animal frame : it is therefore the ner ?
vous system of respiration , deglutition , &amp; c , and the source of tone in the whole muscular system .
The true spinal system is the seat or nervous agent of the appetites and passions , but is also susceptible of modification by volition .
This theory he proceeds to apply to the explanation of several phenomena relating to the motions of the eyelids , pharynx , cardia , larynx , muscles of inspiration , sphincter any , expulsors of the faeces and semen , to the tone of the muscular system generally , and to actions resulting from the passions .
Lastly , he considers its application to various diseased states of the same functions , as manifested in cynic spasm , vomiting , asthma , tenesmus , strangury , crowing inspiration , convulsions , epilepsy , tetanus , hydrophobia , and paralysis .
Reference is made , in the course of the paper , to several drawings Rnd diagrams , which , however , have not yet been supplied .

