The following gentlemen were , by ballot , elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts , on the part of the Society : viz. Martin Barry , M.D. , Henry James Brooke , Esq. , Robert Brown , Esq. , D.C.L. , Rev. James Cumming , M.A. , and John Thomas Gves , Esq. , M.A. James Scott Bowerbank , Esq. , and Charles Towneley , Esq. , were balloted for and duly elected Fellows of the Society .
The following papers were read , viz : ยง 1 .
Postscript to a paper " On the Action of the Rays of the Solar Spectrum on Vegetable Colours .
" By Sir John Frederick William Herschel , Bart , F.R.S. , &amp;c. An account is here given of some additional facts illustrative of the singular properties of iron as a photographic ingredient , and also of some highly interesting photographic processes dependent on those properties , which the favourable weather of the summer has enabled him to discover .
The author also describes a better method of fixing the picture , in the process which he has denominated the Chrysotype , than that which he had specified in the latter part of his paper .
In this new method the hydriodate is substituted for the hydrobromate of potass ; and the author finds it perfectly effectual ; pictures fixed by it not having suffered in the smallest degree , either from long exposure to sunshine or from keeping .
He next considers the class of processes in which cyanogen , in its combinations with iron , performs a leading part , and in which the resulting pictures are blue ; processes which he designates by the generic term Cyanotype .
Their varieties appear to be innumerable , but one is particularly noticed , namely , that of simply passing over the ammonio-citrated paper , on which a latent picture has been impressed , very sparingly and evenly , a wash of the solution of the common yellow ferrocyanate of potass .
As soon as the liquid is applied the negative picture vanishes , and is replaced , by very slow degrees , by a positive one , of a violet-blue colour on a greenishyellow ground , which , at a certain moment , possesses a high degree of sharpness , and singular beauty and delicacy of tint .
From his further researches on this subject he deduces the following conclu ?
sions : first , that it is the heat of the rays , not their light , which operates the change ; secondly , that this heat possesses a peculiar chemical quality , which is not possessed by the purely calorific rays outside of the visible spectrum , though far more intense ; and thirdly , that the heat radiated from obscurcly hot iron ahounds especially in rays analogous to those of the region of the spectrum above described .
The author then describes the photographic properties he has discovered to belong to mercury , a metal which he finds to possess , in an eminent degree , direct photographic susccptibility .
2 .
" Observations cle la variation de la declinaison et intensite hori ?
zontale magnetiques obscrvees ii Milan pendant vingt-quatre heures consecutives , le 22 et 23 Juin , le 20 et 21 Juillet , le 26 et 27 d'Aout , le 21 et 22 Septembre , et le 19 et 20 Octobrc , 1842 , " rapportecs par Robert Strambrecchi , premier eleve adjoint .
A letter was also read from Sir John F. W. Herschel on the subject of Photography , addressed to S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S.

