II .
" Notes on the Generative Organs , and on the Formation of the Egg in the Annulosa."-Part I. By JOIIN LUBBOCK , Esq. , F.R.S. Received February 5 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) In the present paper I have communicated some observations on the Myriapoda , on Petrohius , and on certain Arachnida .
Among the former I have examined species belonging to the genera Glomeris , lulus , Polydesmus , Lithobius , Cryptops , Geophilus , and Arthronomalus .
Through the labours of Brandt , Fabre , Newport , Stein , Treviranus , and other eminent naturalists , we are tolerably well acquainted with the anatomy of the generative organs in the Myriapods ; but these observers have occupied themselves principally with the arrangement and forms of the organs , and have not paid much attention to the different stages of egg-development , nor to the relation in which the young egg stands to the surrounding tissues .
This relation is indeed very curious , and seems to have been generally misunderstood .
It is well known that there are in the Myriapods no long egg-tubes , as in most insects , but that each egg arises in a separate follicle .
It was , however , natural to suppose that this follicle held the same position with reference to the ovary as the very similar egg-follicles of certain insects , as , for instance , of Coccus .
This , however , is by no means the case .
If we compare the ovary and egg-follicle of Coccus with the ovary and egg-follicle in Glomeris , we shall see that the egg-follicle is very much alike in both cases : the K shape of the follicle , the Purkinjean vesicle , and the vitelligenous cells being very similar ; but whereas in Coccus and in all insects the eggfollicle projects from the ovary , in Glomeris and the other Myriapods , so far as my observations go , the follicle projects into the ovary .
If , therefore , we consider the ovary as consisting of an outer membrane and an inner epithelial layer , it would appear that while the egg in the Myriapods arises between these two layers , in the insects it originates on the inner side of both .
This difference appears to me to be very important , and , as will be mentioned under the head of Iulus , escaped the attention of our great anatomist Newport , whereby he was led to give an erroneous description of the ovary of that genus .
I have chosen to compare Glomeris with Coccus , because the vitelligenous cells make the resemblance , and , at the same time , the difference between these two genera more striking .
If we , however , compare with them the ovary of Phalangium , we shall see not only that the vitelligenous cells are absent , but that the egg-follicle differs equally from that of the insect on the one hand , and that of the Myriapod on the other .
The egg-follicle projects from the ovary as in Coccus , &amp;c. ; but , on the other hand , the Purkinjean vesicle lies on the outer side of the epithelial layer , as in Glomeris , and in consequence the egg-follicle , which in Coccus consists of both the ovarian membranes ( so far as the epithelial layer can be called a membrane ) , and in Glomeris of the epithelial layer only , is in the Phalangidse , and perhaps all the Arachnida , formed only by the outer membrane .
Consequently , while in the insects the mature ovum passes into the ovary through the neck of the follicle , in Myriapods and the Arachnida it bursts through the epithelial layer , in the former at its free , and in the latter at its attached end .
If these characteristics are found eventually to hold good throughout the Myriapods and Arachnida , the differences thus shown to exist between these groups will be of great interest ; but it is too early to generalize on the subject with much confidence .
Moreover , it often happens that one or a few epithelial cells are attached in Arachnida to the inner side of the follicle-wall .
This happens , however ( as far as my observations go ) , without any regularity , and the cells thus present fulfil perhaps no important function in the formation of the egg .
The Crustacea appear to differ from the three preceding groups in the fact that their eggs do not possess separate follicles .
In the more advanced eggs of Glomeris , the macula of Wagner is double , one being much smaller than the other .
The ovary of Iulus has been described by Newport ; the specimens which he examined had , however , been submitted to the action of spirits of wine , and were therefore altogether unsuitable for histological examination .
The egg-follicle did not contain any large vitelligenous bodies like those of Glomeris , nor could I see in it a vitelline vesicle like that of Arthronomalus ; but it very generally contained , when the yelk was beginning to darken , a patch resembling that which appears to result from the small vitelline vesicle of Lithobius .
In both these genera the eggs in all stages of development are mixed together without any regular arrangement .
The macula appears to be generally double , as in Glomeris .
In the genus Polydesmus , however , where , as in all Chilognaths , the eggs are arranged on a double stroma , situated at the lower side of the ovary , the smaller eggs are on the central parts of the stroma , and the more developed ones lie towards the sides .
In appearance the ova offer a great contrast to those of lulus , and particularly of Glomeris , since the margin of the yelk has all the appearance of being bounded by a distinct membrane , though I am not convinced that this is really the case .
I have not yet made out in Polydesmus anything corresponding to the " patch " of luls .
The macula appears to be always single .
It often contains vacuoles .
The yelk of mature eggs consists , -lst , of globules about 8-0oth of an inch in diameter ; 2ndly , of greenish bodies about Y-'th in diameter ; and 3rdly , of a clear , more or less viscid substance .
By the month of October most of the females have laid their first lot of eggs ; after which another set immediately begin to be developed .
M. Fabre does not appear to have seen the spermatozoa of Polydesmus .
They are small , elliptical bodies about -00-oth of aln inch in length , and containing a bright nucleus .
M. Stein appears to be the only naturalist who has hitherto described them from personal observation , but he does not allude to the nucleus .
In Lithobius , Cryptops , Geophilus , and Arthronomalus , the eggs form a single series ; large ones and small ones lie next to one another without any arrangement .
In the youngest Purkinjean vesicles of Lithobius there are about seven nuclei , each s-5g--th of an inch , or thereabouts , in diameter .
As the eggs increase in size these maculta appear to subdivide , at any rate they become continually smaller and more numerous .
This is very remarkable , nothing like it taking place in the other genera .
When the egg has attained a certain size , but before it has begun to darken , a small vesicle , about one-third of the size of the Purkinjean vesicle , may generally be seen in it .
This vesicle is probably homologous with the vitelline vesicle of Arthronomalus , &amp;c. It soon disappears , and is replaced by a " patch " resembling that of Iulus* .
The eggs of Cryptops are narrow .
The macula differs from that of Lithobius , and agrees rather with that of Glomeris , in consisting of two unequal separate bodies .
To the description of the spermatophores given by M. Fabre , I have nothing of importance to add .
The spermatheci of the females examined by me contained only filiform spermatozoa .
The form of the eggs in Arthronomalus is spherical .
The yolk-nucleus is very apparent , and has at first all the appearance of a vesicle .
Globules gradually appear in it , and it loses its distinct outline .
The development of the eggs in Geophilus is much like that of Arthronomalus .
The principal peculiarity observed was in the structure of the Purkinjean vesicle , which appeared to consist of two different substances , one surrounding the other .
The inner substance was generally produced in the form of a peninsula at one or two places , almost through the outer substance .
This latter was of more regular outline , but sometimes partially followed the same outline .
Occasionally even the macula was thus produced .
It appeared to be that the projecting parts gradually became pinched off from the main portion , and thus formed certain irregularly rounded bodies , which could in most eggs be indistinctly discerned in the homogeneous yolk , and were probably homologous with the vitelline vesicle of Arthronomnalus .
A somewhat similar phenomenon has been described by Leackart as occurring in the eggs of Aphis rose .
In the Phalangide I examined the genera Phalangium , Nemastoma , Opilio , and Leiobumus , in all of which the process of egg-development was similar , and resembled that already described as occurring in Polydesmus .
The structure of the male generative organs has , however , been entirely misunderstood by all preceding writers .
Tulk states that the " testes are formed by a cluster of elongated ... ceecal tubes ; " and this opinion has been generally adopted , though from the structure and contents of these tubes it is evident that they are rather to be regarded as accessory glands .
Leydig found among these tubes one longer than the rest , and described this , which is in fact the ductus ejaculatorius , as the true testis .
The true testis , however , had been misunderstood , but not overlooked .
It is described by Treviranus , Tulk , Leydig , and others , and being present only in the male sex , was supposed by all to be a portion of the generative organs , though they were not able to trace its connexion with the penis .
It is a large V-shaped tube , which lies transversely across the abdomen ; at each end it dwindles into a very fine tube , which passes , on each side , round the tracheal trunks close to the spiracles , and then the two approaching one another , unite in the centre of the body and fall into the long winding ductuts ejaculatorius .
Thus it will be seen that the generative organs of the male Phalangidee are formed on exactly the same type as those of the females .
In Chelifer and Obisium the ovary is a simple tube , on each side of which the egg-follicles are produced .
In each specimen there are two sets of eggs in very different stages of development , and it would appear that thirty or forty come to maturity at once .
In the early part of the autumn I found four or five specimens , with an egg-capsule attached to the underside of the abdomen .
These egg-capsules , however , only contained seventeen or eighteen eggs .
Moreover , in these specimens I found neither a testis nor an ordinary ovary , but a large body consisting of about thirty follicles opening into a common cavity , and full of oil-globules .
The eggs in the egg-capsule were in several cases undergoing segmentation .
The males of Chelifer appear to be about as numerous as the females .
The testis consists of a median and two lateral tubes , which are united together by three transverse branches .
It is therefore much like that of the true Scorpions .
The spermatozoa in Obisium have a small head and a long tail , while those of Chelifer are oval bodies .
These oval bodies may be immature forms only , but I never found any further stage of development in the spermatheca of the female .
The ovary of Petrobius consists of seven short egg-tubes ; each of which in September contained three eggs , with more or less darkened yelk , and about fifteen or twenty egg-germs in earlier stages .
The development of the eggs reminded me much of that which takes place in the Orthoptera .
It appears to be a pretty well established fact that , at least in many animals , the Purkinjean vesicle is a modified ovarian cell , round which the yolk is deposited .
On the other hand , according to some eminent naturalists , there are certain animals in which the ovarian cell becomes the egg , and its nucleus the Purkinjean vesicle .
In this case we should have two distinct classes of eggs , the Purkinjean vesicle in one of which would be homologous with the whole egg in the other .
I have , however , given in mypaper the reasonswhich induce me to doubt whether these last observations are altogether correct .
But even if we may admit that no essential difference has as yet been proved to exist in the eggs of animals , as far as regards the relations existing between the Purkinjean vesicle and the original ovarian cell , it would still seem that in the relations between the former and the yelk , two very different types of development must be recognized .
In describing the so-called " winter-ova " of Lacinularica socialis , Prof. Huxley says ( Micr .
Journal , vol. i. p. 14 ) , " It will be observed that all these authors consider the winter-ova or ephippial ova and the ordinary ova to be essentially identical , only that the former have an outer case .
The truth is that they are essentially different structures .
The true ova are single cells which have undergone a special development .
The ephippial ova are aggregations of cells ( in fact , larger or smaller portions , sometimes the whole of the ovary ) , which become enveloped in a shell , and simulate true ova .
" This aggregation of several cells ( one of them putting on the appearance and fulfilling the functions of a Purkinjean vesicle ) , and the whole becoming enveloped in a shell , is , however , the ordinary and only method of egg-development in many lower animals .
In the Trematoda and Cestoid worms , and the greater number of the Turbellaria , the yolk and the Purkinjean vesicle are formed in two separate organs .
In Piscicola , according to Leydig , the mature egg contains , besides the Purkinjean vesicle and the ordinary yolk , a number of nucleated cells ( Zeit .
f. Wiss .
Zool. 1849 .
part 1 .
pl. 10 .
fig. 56 ) .
In the Mites and Spiders , in Chelifer , Obisium , the Phalangidee , and , so far as I know , all the Arachnida , the egg arises from the metamorphosis of a single cell .
On the other hand , we find that complex eggs alone are present in vast numbers of insects , namely , in all the Lepidoptera , Diptera , Neuroptera ( excluding the Libellulidae and allied genera ) , Hymenoptera , Hemiptera , Homoptera , and Coleoptera .
We are as yet ignorant of the mode of egg-development in the Thripsida and the Strepsiptera ; nor does it seem quite clear whether the development of the pseudovum in Aphis can be referred to the complex type .
It would , however , appear from the statements of Leydig , Huxley , and Leuckart , that in the opinion of these three eminent naturalists the pseudovum is a derivation of a single ovarian cell , and differs therefore in this respect from the ovum of the impregnated female .
We know little as yet about the early stages of egg-formation in the Crustacea , but it would appear that the simple mode prevails generally throughout this class , with the exception of the Daphnidae .
As regards the Rotatoria , the so-called winter eggs have been observed in Hydatina , Brachionus , and Notommata , as well as in Lacinularia ; and we may probably conclude that in these and other allied genera the development of these eggs is on the same type ; while " summer eggs " are formed from one cell .
Among the Myriapoda , the eggs of Lithobius , Cryptops , Geophilus , Arthronomalus , Polydesmus , and lulus are simple , the vitelline vesicles occurring in some of them being probably homologous with the yolk nucleus of Spiders .
Glomeris , however , offers apparently an exception to the rule so general among the Myriapods , as the large rounded bodies present in the egg-capsule are probably homologous with the vitelligenous cells of insects .
In excluding the ephippial ova of Lacinularia from the category of true eggs , Prof. Huxley was influenced to a certain extent by the supposition that they are fertile without impregnation , and are therefore " not ova at all in the proper sense , but peculiar buds .
" According to Stein , however , the reverse is probably the case , and the summer eggs are agamic , while the winter eggs require to be fertilised .
This is also in accordance with the case of Daphnia .
In this genus , as in Rotatoria , the " summer eggs " are agamic , but it has not yet been conclusively proved that the " winter eggs " of either require impregnation .
However this may be , the development of the eggs of insects sufficiently proves that eggs composed of several ovarian cells , like those which are unicellular , generally are incapable of development without impregnation .
But no one can deny the name of true eggs to the ova of Butterflies , &amp;c. ; and we cannot therefore class as " false eggs " those which arise from more than one cell .
Perhaps it would be better to distinguish the two classes as " compound , " and " simple " or unicellular .
The names we may adopt are , however , of less importance than the establishment of the fact that throughout the Annulosa there are two sorts of eggs , which are of an essentially different structure , and cannot therefore , strictly speaking , be regarded as homologous with one another .

