274 Prof. J. J. Thomson .
On Discharge of [ Feb. 13 III .
" On the Discharge of Electricity produced by the Rontgen Rays , and the Effects produced by these Rays on Dielectrics through which they pass .
" By J .
J. Thomson , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Experimental Physics , Cambridge .
Received February 7 , 1896 .
The Rontgen rays , when they fall upon electrified bodies , rapidly discharge the electrification , whether this be positive or negative .
The arrangement I have used to investigate this effect is as follows :_ The Ruhmkorff coil and the exhausted bulb , used to produce the rays , are placed inside a large packing case covered with tin plate ; this is done to screen off from the electrometer any electrostatic disturbance due to the action of the coil .
The needle of the electrometer is suspended by a quartz fibre ; thus , as there is no magnetic control , the needle of the electrometer is not affected by changes in the magnetisation of the core of the coil .
The exhausted bulb is placed so that the phosphorescent part of it is about 1| inches from the top of the box , and a hole about an inch in diameter is cut in the lid of the box just^over the bulb , so as to allow the rays to emerge from the box ; a thin plate of either aluminium or tin-foil is used to cover up the hole .
The electrified plate , which is a little larger than the hole , is placed outside the box about 2 inches above the hole in the lid , so that the Rhntgen rays which passed through the hole fall upon the plate .
This plate is kept permanently connected with one of the quadrants of a quadrant electrometer ; the greatest care is taken with the insulation of this plate and of the quadrants of the electrometer .
The insulation was so good that there was no appreciable leak when the coil was not in action .
The following is the method of making the experiments : The two pairs of quadrants are connected together and the plate charged to a high potential by an electrophorus or by temporary connection with a large battery of small storage cells .
All the quadrants of the electrometer are now at the same potential .
The two pairs of quadrants are now disconnected ; if the insulation is good the potentials will remain the same , and there will be no deflection of the electrometer ; in our experiments the leak is so small that under these circumstances the movement of the spot of light is hardly perceptible .
If , now , the Rontgen rays are directed on to the plate a violent leakage of electricity from the plate occurs , the potential of the quadrants connected with the plate changes , and in a few seconds the spot of light reflected from the mirror of the electrometer is driven off the scale .
This leakage of electricity occurs whether the plate is positively or negatively electrified ; if the plate is uncharged 1896.J Electricity 'produced by the Rays , Sc. to begin with , I have not been able to detect that any charge is acquired by the plate by exposure to these rays .
When the potential to which the plate is raised is high the leakage from the plate is a most delicate means of detecting these rays , more so than any photographic plate known to me .
I have found these rays produce distinctly perceptible effects on a charged plate after passing through a zinc plate a quarter of an inch thick .
The charged plate and electrometer are much more expeditious than the photographic plate and more easily adapted to quantitative measurements .
To determine how the radiation of the Rdntgen rays depended upon the degree of exhaustion of the bulb , the bulb was kept in connection Avith the pump and the leakage was observed at different degrees of exhaustion ; no leakage could be detected until the pressure was so low that phosphorescent patches appeared on the bulb , and , even after the phosphorescence appeared , the leakage was small as long as there Avas any considerable luminosity in the positive column ; it was not until this had almost disappeared that the leakage from the charged plate became rapid .
If the greatest sensitiveness is required , it is , of course , advisable to charge the plate as highly as possible .
The leakage due to the rays , however , occurs when the potential of the plate does not exceed that of the tin-plate cover by more than 3 or 4 Amlts , and I have not yet met with any phenomena which suggest that there is a lower limit of potential difference below which leakage does not take place .
This leakage differs from that produced by ultra-violet light , the laAvs of which have been unravelled by Elster and Geitel , in several essential features , in the first place ultra-violet light only dischaiges a negative charge , while the Rdntgen rays discharge both positive and negative .
Again , the effect of ultra-violet light is only considerable when the electrified body is a strongly electro-positive metal with a clean surface .
The effects of the Rontgen rays are , on the other hand , vrery marked whatever the metal , and take place Avhen the electrified plate is surrounded by solid or liquid insulatois as well as when surrounded by air .
I have embedded the plate in solid paraffin wax , in solid sulphur , placed it inside a lump of ebonite , wedged it in between pieces of mica , and immersed it in a bath of paraffin oil ; in each of these cases , though the insulation was practically perfect when the insulator was not traA7ersed by the Rontgen rays , and the potential of the plate differed from that of the metal covering of the box by from 10 to 15 volts , yet , as soon as the Rontgen rays passed through the insulator , the charge of the metal plate leaked away .
I have found that the electricity leaks from the plate even when the space between it and the nearest conductors connected to earth is entirely filled with solid paraffin ; hence we conclude 276 Prof. A. Gamgee .
Absorption of the extreme [ Feb. 13 , that when the Rontgen rays pass through a dielectric they make it during the time of their passage a conductor of electricity , or that all substances when transmitting these rays are conductors of electricity The passage of these rays through a substance seems thus to be accompanied by a splitting up of its molecules , which enables electricity to pass through it by a process resembling that by which a current passes through an electrolyte .
By using a block of solid paraffin in which two pairs of electrodes are embedded , the line joining one pair being parallel , that joining the other pair perpendicular , to the Rontgen rays , which were kept passing through the block , I found that there is but little difference between the rate of leakage along and perpendicular to the rays .
I have much pleasure in thanking Mr. J. A. McClelland , of Trinity College , Cambridge , and Mr. E. Everitt for the assistance they have given me in carrying out these experiments .
A telegram from Professors Borgman and Gerchun , of St. Petersburg , forwarded by the editor of the ' Electrician , ' to the effect that Rontgen rays discharged electricity , and a letter from Professor Lodge to the effect that he had definitely ascertained that the phosphorescent glass was the source of the radiation of Rontgen rays , and that the radiation starts in all directions , and not normally only from the glass , were read .
IV .
" On the Absorption of the extreme Violet and ultra-Violet Rays of the Solar Spectrum by Haemoglobin , its Compounds- and certain of its Derivatives .
" By Arthur Gamgee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Physiology in the Owens College , Victoria University .
Received February 11 , 1896 .
In the year 1878 the late Professor J. L. Soret , of Geneva , in his first memoir on the absorption of the ultra-violet rays of the spectrum by diverse organic substances , * announced the fact that diluted blood , when examined with the aid of a spectroscope provided with a fluorescent eye-piece , presented in the extreme violet , between Fraunhofer 's lines G and H , an absorption band which appeared to him to be slightly shifted towards the less refrangible end of the spectrum when the blood solution was saturated with carbonic oxide .
Soret subsequently^ confirmed the accuracy of the above * J. Xi .
Soret , " Rechercbes sir 1*Absorption des Rayons ultra-violets par diverses Substances , " ' Archives des Sc. Phys. et Not .
, ' vol. 61 ( Geneva , 1878 ) , pp. 322\#151 ; 359 .
t Soret , * Archives des Sc. Phys. et Not .
, ' vol. 66 ( 1883 ) , pp. 194 , 195 , and 204 .

