Studies on Synapsis .
305 writer proposes to reserve the consideration of these alternatives to Part V of this series .
( 4 ) The method described in the present communication of carrying out the fermentation of substances in the presence of one or other of the products of the reactions added at the outset gives promise , in the writer 's opinion , of lending valuable aid in the solution of the problems of fermentation .
In conclusion , I wish to express my thanks to Prof. F. Gowland Hopkins , F.R.S. , for his kind help and criticism during the course of this research .
I would also like to acknowledge my debt to Prof. Arthur Harden , F.R.S. , for his valuable criticism .
Studies on Synapsis .
II .
\#151 ; Parallel Conjugation and the Prophase Complex in Periplaneta with Special Reference to the meiotic Telophase .
By Lancelot T. Hogben , M.A. , B.Sc. ( Lecturer in Zoology , Imperial College of Science ) .
( Communicated by Prof. E. W. MacBride , F.R.S.\#151 ; Received May 15 , 1920 .
) [ Plates 10-12 .
] The reality of synapsis , or the pairing of chromosomes of biparental origin preparatory to their segregation during the maturation divisions of the germ cells , provides at present the most fruitful basis for any attempt to correlate genetic phenomena with cell structure ; and it rests upon data derived from sources that are strictly independent of the behaviour of the chromosomes during the remarkable series of events intercalated in the prophase of the heterotype mitosis .
It is , however , only possible to gain a knowledge regarding the manner in which homologous chromosomes are brought into association with one another by a study of the meiotic phase itself .
To the earlier workers the reality of synapsis was the all-absorbing problem , while the means by which it is effected formed a secondary consideration .
It is possible , given the conjugation of chromosomes derived from alternate parents , to explain the independent segregation of allelomorphic pairs on the assumption that their material basis resides in different bivalents ; while Mr. L. T. Hogben .
their localisation in identical bivalents affords an equally satisfactory interpretation of the phenomena of coupling and repulsion .
Indeed were coupling and repulsion always absolute the mode of synapsis would not present an urgent cause for enquiry .
The progress made of late years , however , in the investigation of partial linkages , makes it imperative for the further development of the chromosome hypothesis to postulate some mechanism for the exchange of chromatin particles between conjugating elements ; so that the degree of intimacy involved in the synaptic union assumes a new significance .
While recognising with the utmost respect the brilliant speculations of Prof. Morgan and his school , it cannot be truthfully stated that there exists among cytologists at present a very high degree of unanimity as to the line along which the solution of this question must lie .
In recent years the belief in telosynapsis ( end-to-end union ) has increased in prestige among botanical cytologists , while the alternative interpretation of parasynapsis ( parallel conjugation ) has found greater favour among those who have studied animal forms .
In attempting to interpret satisfactorily the events of the meiotic phase in the case of animals , interest centres pre-eminently in those phenomena which intervene between the last premeiotic telophase and the formation of the " bouquet " on the one hand , and the process by which the reduced and longitudinally split ( diplotene ) segments become transformed into heterotype chromosomes on the other .
The former furnish direct evidence of the relation of the meiotic filaments to the somatic chromosomes , while the latter in the light of the subsequent mitotic processes afford indirect data regarding the mode of synapsis , the reality of synapsis being assumed .
Regarding the first , to an impartial student the work of the Schreiners ( 1 ) 1906 , Jannsens ( 2 ) 1909 , Agar ( 3 ) 1911 , and Wilson ( 4 ) 1912 , based in each case on particularly suitable material as regards both size and seriation , cannot fail to carry the conviction that here at least there is a fusion of whole chromosomes parasyndetically ; and such an interpretation is fully consonant with the usual derivation of the heterotype chromosomes by separation along the line of cleavage in the diplotene filaments .
There are , however , particular cases , notably among Flatworms and Orthoptera , where certain authors ( Goldschmidt ( 5 ) , Sutton(31 ) , Davis ( 32 ) , and Buchner ( 6 ) , e.g. ) have described the genesis of the tetrads in a manner which can only be reconciled with the theory of synapsis on the assumption that the conjugating elements are united by their extremities alone .
In the case of plants the position is somewhat different ; here , according to the most recent and very lucid account of Miss Digby for Osmunda , provision is made for the conjugation of univalents in the second Studies on Synapsis .
contraction , while the fusion witnessed in the first contraction figures involves the reassociation of half chromosomes split in preparation for an arrested division in the preceding telophase .
The chief issue between the rival schools in this case concerns not primarily that suggested by the etymological distinction , but the significance of the earlier stages in the meiotic phase .
The telosynaptists interpret the first contraction in terms of the premeiotic prophase , whereas the parasynaptic school , like Grdgoire ( 7 ) , attempt to compare it with the bouquet zygotene processes in animals .
In direct opposition to Gregoire , Farmer and Moore ( 1905 ) have attempted to interpret tfte events of the meiotic phase in animals as well as plants in terms of the premeiotic prophases .
The principal form investigated from this standpoint was Periplaneta , Osmunda being one of the forms on which the comparison was based .
These two authors ( 8 ) omit any account of a leptotene or zygotene stage : their observations commence with the chromatin already present as the reduced number of loops ; so that the earlier events of the synaptic processes here described are very different from those set forth in Osmunda by Miss Digby ( 9 ) .
According to their statement of the case the heterotype chromosomes segment transversely with respect to the line of cleavage in the diplotene stage ; and since the homotype division is longitudinal , they are forced to conceive the bouquet as a spireme in which each segment corresponds to a pair of chromosomes united end-to-end .
Thus we read : " the spireme thread work tends at first to separate into half as many lengths " ( as the premeiotic chromosome number ) .
It cannot be questioned that Prof. Farmer performed a very great service to cytology in this pioneer work by demonstrating a definite relationship between the heterotype and normal somatic chromosomes .
But in emphasising the similarity between the heterotype and premeiotic prophases , and more particularly the resemblances of the former in plants and animals , it appears to the present writer that the issue has been obscured rather than clarified in certain particulars , so that a re-examination of the meiotic phenomena in Periplaneta in the light of Miss Digby 's discoveries would assist towards a better appreciation of the relation of these fundamental processes in animals and plants .
Special attention has been directed to the study of the premeiotic telophase and its bearing on the earlier events of synapsis , a more searching study of the genesis of the spindle bivalents in spermatogenesis , and the first account of the synaptic events in oogenesis in the same form are here included .
Together with these observations are recorded conclusions on the relation of the plasmosome to yolk-deposition in insects .
It is a pleasant duty to acknowledge the generous encouragement and helpful criticism offered by Prof. Farmer during the course of the investigation .
Mr. L. T. Hogben .
Technique and Material .
Gonads from about three hundred individuals , at all stages of development from the early instars onward , were used in the present research .
To ensure a plentiful supply of cells in synapsis , both testes and ovaries of larvae were used principally , after dissection in Ringer 's fluid .
Repeated trials made it clear that acid fixatives like Flemming 's reagent , though admirable for work involving counts , are of little utility where the object of the investigation necessitates special attention to cleavages in chromatin filaments .
All the advantages of Flemming 's normal formula can be obtained by eliminating the acetic component , so that swelling of chromatin is avoided .
Gatenby has already recommended this modification for the study of mitochondria .
Very successful results were obtained by a modification of one of Rabl 's formulae : equal parts of formol and 1 per cent , platinic chloride were mixed , and diluted with two volumes of distilled water .
The mixture penetrates admirably ; and , while the chromatin elements shrink too much for convenient metaphase counts , for the examination of filaments , where cleavage is doubtful , it gives an admirable fixation .
In all cases where iron hsematoxylin was afterwards used , the sections were previously stained with a transparent dye , and ultimately differentiated in dilute alum very slowly under constant microscopic observation until the pigment was all but removed from the object studied .
Such precaution is essential ; in Periplaneta , the elongated annular heterotype chromosomes appear in Haidenhein preparations ( owing to the elimination of the interspace by adsorption of stain ) as homogeneous rods , long after all the dye has been extracted from the chromatin of resting cells .
The importance of care in staining is sufficiently evident in the illustrations of authors Buchner ) who have used the iron method .
1 .
Oogenesis in P. americana .
As in other Orthoptera , the ovarioles of the Blattidse are composed of only two kinds of cellular elements , follicular cells and oocytes ; there are no nurse cells .
In the imago , four regions may be distinguished in the egg tube : ( a ) a portion composed of oocytes in linear series , surrounded individually with follicular epithelium , and occupying altogether about four-fifths of the entire length of the tube ; ( b ) a region of oocytes not as yet arranged in linear series nor separately invested with follicles , but already displaying the nucleus in the diffuse condition characteristic of the growth phase ; ( c ) a zone of young oocytes in synapsis and of oogonia with large spherical nuclei ; ( d ) the terminal filament , consisting of smaller cells , with inconspicuous and Studies on Synapsis .
granular ovoid nuclei .
Neither in imagines nor in early instars could any evidence of transition between cells of the terminal filament and the large oogonia of the synaptic zone be established , though the relation of the terminal filament and chamber in the Hymenoptera and some other insects is manifest ; from a comparison of the number of eggs in the remainder of the ovariole and the number of mitoses observed in the synaptic zone , and also , after consideration of the number of eggs normally laid during the period of sexual activity , it would appear that the terminal filament in the Blattidse does not contribute to the formation of new oogonia .
The origin of follicle cells in P. americanais particularly easy to recognise , owing to the fact that the follicular chromosomes assume in the prophase the atelomitic ( U-shaped ) form which they display on the equatorial plate , thus contrasting sharply with the short stout elements of the oogonial complex ; they arise from the oogonia themselves .
This has also been shown to be the case in the Hymenoptera by Paulcke ( 10 ) and the author ( 11 ) , both nurse and follicle cells being of germinal origin ; whereas , in some Diptera , e.g. , the Cecidomyid Miastor , the oocytes alone are derived from the primordial germ cells .
In view of recent work on the meiotic phase in plants , a critical survey of the synaptic events necessitates a thorough appreciation of the character of the premeiotic mitoses .
A very full description of the process as it occurs in the archesporial divisions of Osmunda is thus epitomised by Miss Digby : " In late anaphase the substance of each chromosome is seen to be divided already into longitudinal halves .
As the newly formed nucleus proceeds to rest the chromosome halves become beaded .
The threads gradually separate widely , and the beads become resolved into finer and finer granules until a fine reticulate edge is reached\#151 ; the so-called resting stage .
During prophase the series of events is reversed and the chromosome halves or threads ' , reassociate ... .
The association of the two halves becomes increasingly intimate until it results in the organisation of the completed univalent chromosome . . . .
" It is a singular fact that in Periplaneta the overwhelming majority of oogonia , either in adult or pre-adult ovarioles , are always seen to be in the prophase , when the chromatin elements are represented by prochromosomes in various stages of development .
In the metaphase of the ; oogonial divisions the number of chromosomes is clearly thirty-four ; they are stouter than those in the male germ cells , and uncurved .
It is evident that the representative of the accessory chromosome described in the male of the species by Morse ( 12 ) is accompanied in the division of the female germ cells by a homologous partner .
For the sake of brevity it may be remarked in this connexion that the accessories in P. americana do not behave in any VOL. XCI.\#151 ; B. 2 B 310 Mr. L. T. Hogben .
stage of the nuclear history of the oogonia in a manner distinguishable from the autosomes .
By the examination of sufficiently thin sections it is possible to trace the behaviour of chromosomes in their passage to the polar end of the spindle with accuracy and assurance ( c/ .
figs. 4 and 20 ) ; and it is clear that in the later oogonial divisions , at least , the telophasic chromosomes undergo no cleavage .
This conclusion is fully consonant with succeeding events .
It is possible that the telophase chromosomes , in some cases , pass over directly to prophase prochromosomes without the intervention of a reticulum : all that can be legitimately inferred from the extraordinary rarity of typical resting nuclei is that the reticulate condition must occupy a very brief portion of the nuclear cycle .
In the prophase the reticulum condenses into cloudy areas that indicate the future chromatic elements ; and in elucidating the genesis of the latter , comparison with the nuclei of the incipient follicle cells is valuable in view of the closer resemblance of the chromosomes of the latter to the curved units of the male complex .
There is in neither case any sign of an " increasingly intimate " reassociation of telophasic half-chromosomes for the " organisation of a completed univalent " as described in the arche-sporial nuclei of Osmunda .
On the contrary , the cloudy area which is , in the first place , without any sign of division , gives place to a more definitive chromatin mass , which does not display cleavage until the characteristic form of the metaphase unit is already recognisable .
Stages in the transformation are represented in Plate 10 , figs. 1-3 and 5-7 .
A comparison with corresponding events in the male germ cells will be made later when further details have been supplied under that heading .
The Meiotic Phase in the Oocyte .
According to the account already quoted , the earlier events of the hetero-type prophase of Osmunda , involved in the first contraction , are primarily concerned with the reassociation of the telophasic threads ( half chromosomes ) as in a normal prophase ; in fact , they are equivalent to an arrested but in other respects normal prophase .
It is clear , then , that Grdgoire 's attempt to compare the first contraction of plants with the parasyndetic bouquet is rendered invalid : indeed , the question of the parasyndetic interpretation of the zygotene stage in animals itself assumes a more problematical aspect .
To ascertain whether in the light of what occurs in Osmunda , the bouquet stage of animals like the first contraction figure in plants is amenable to interpretation in terms of the normal somatic prophase , " it is evident , " as Wilson pertinently observes , " how essential it is to determine the number of presynaptic threads , for if they have such an origin as has just been Studies on Synapsis .
indicated , their number should be tetraploid , whereas if they represent whole chromosomes , their number should be diploid .
" As already stated , there is no evidence of cleavage in the telophase of the later oogonial divisions studied ; and a preliminary examination of the early nuclear history of the oocyte made it abundantly evident that stages which are obscure and difficult to interpret in the male sex cells display a remarkable clarity in the ovarioles , where the fixation is facilitated by the small diameter of the terminal chamber .
In the earliest stages ( fig. 8 ) the nucleus of the oocyte is readily distinguishable from the confused reticulum of the oogonial resting nuclei by the organisation of the chromatin as a dense tangle of finely beaded , single , convoluted and none the less definitive threads which at first exhibit no sign of polarisation , and lie in contact with the nuclear membrane ; this condition corresponds with what is now generally described as the early leptotene stage .
The paired accessory chromosomes which are indistinguishable from the autosomes on the equatorial plate of the oogonial mitoses behave , as will be seen later , like their fellows in the ensuing stages ; in this respect they resemble those of the Orthopteran Leptophytes recently described by Mohr ( 13).* Very soon the irregularly disposed filaments of the early leptotene stage assume the characteristic polar arrangement which marks the formation of the bouquet ( fig. 9 ) .
In the early bouquet the filaments are seen in the form of loops polarised at both ends ; and not as yet withdrawn from the nuclear membrane .
In the preparations examined a number of such nuclei were cut in the plane at right angles to the axis about which the leptotene loops are orientated ; and it was thus possible to count the number of the latter , each of which would in median section be cut twice .
In several cases the number of points was so clearly between sixty-six and sixty-nine , as to leave no doubt that the full diploid number is here represented ( fig. 10 ) .
The attenuated , single and finely beaded filaments of the early leptotene bouquet now contract away from the nuclear membrane become shorter and more closely approximated .
As the process of contraction continues , the filaments are brought into closer union in pairs , and it appears that the paired association of the loops begins at the polar ends , extending to their distal extremities , until the whole bouquet is formed of intimately associated loops ( fig. 11 ) .
By the time maximal contraction has been effected the interspace between the conjugating filaments is hardly recognisable ; but in the best preparations it can be seen that even in this stage , the pachytene threads retain their double character with sufficient clarity to indicate the nature of the cleavage which follows ( fig. 12 ) .
When it is borne in mind that most of the available data relating to the synaptic * Of .
Winiwarter and Sainmont ( 34 ) .
2 b 2 Mr. L. T. Hogben .
phase in animals has been supplied by authors who have been more concerned with the chromosome complex in the germ cycle , it is perhaps pertinent to ask whether the " synizesis " figures described again and again ( as in a previous study on Hymenoptera ) would not present a less homogeneous appearance with more specialised technique .
It is certain at least that in the case under consideration , it is easy enough at the point of maximal contraction to obtain typical synaptic knots with over fixation and logwood staining .
Maximal contraction does not seem to extend over a long period in P. americana .
As the loops widen out , the interspace between the constituent halves of the thickened more chromatic loops of the pachytene stage again becomes easily visible ( fig. 13 ) .
It is easy to see both in this and the preceding stage from sections at right angles to the orientation of the loops ( fig. 15 ) that the reduced number of loops is now present .
The longitudinally divided diplotene loops become considerably elongated , and enter into contact with the nuclear membrane ; but again become shortened somewhat before the complete dissolution of the bouquet figure ( figs. 14 and 16 ) .
Up to this point the facts briefly stated are as follow : there is no cleavage of chromosomes in the telophase of the oogonial mitosis ; the reduced number of thickened loops in the stage of maximal contraction is brought about by the parallel conjugation of leptotene threads equivalent in number to the telophasic chromosomes of the preceding mitoses .
Provided that such an interpretation is not incompatible with the observed transformation of diplotene loops into heterotype chromosomes , it is difficult to escape the conclusion that the process described is not analogous in any way to a premeiotic prophase , but an event sui generis in which the conjugation of homologous chromosomes is effected .
It is therefore necessary now to enquire whether such a conclusion is consonant with the subsequent events .
But before doing so , it may be stated that there was no evidence of the twisting of the filaments in the zygotene stage ; indeed , while such a procedure does not seem improbable in the case of leptotene filaments that are polarised at one extremity only , it is difficult to imagine in the case of paired loops , apparently attached at both ends , any mechanism by which such twisting could be achieved .
The union of the constituent halves of the pachytene loops is sufficiently intimate to allow the possibility of " crossing over " ; but the facts do not seem to justify the belief that this is brought about by such means as are postulated by the chiasmatype theory .
The free diplotene loops represented in fig. 16 rapidly become abbreviated and straightened , a process in which two , however , lag behind their fellows precisely as do two of the loops in the heterotype prophase of the male sex Studies on Synapsis .
cells ( figs. 17 , 18a ) .
One of the bivalent filaments of this-stage is distinguishable by its singular form , and smaller than the rest ; it is possible that it represents the accessory pair ( fig. 18\amp ; ) .
The constituent halves of the bivalents now become widely separated in the region midway from the extremities of the filament ( fig. 19 ) .
And as the confused stage supervenes , the axis of each filament becomes shorter , the interspace widens , until each half is separated along its entire length from its fellow , becoming contemporaneously more sharply curved and more granular in appearance .
Thus the bivalent elements pass into the reticulate condition characteristic of the growth phase of the egg as transversely divided rings , such as are described on the heterotype spindle of the male by Farmer and Moore .
But it will be observed that their mode of formation is very different : the ring is formed by the opening out of the diplotene cleavage , and not by the union of loops by their free ends as described in Farmer and Moore 's account of the spermatogenesis of the species .
The validity of the alternative interpretation will be fully discussed in dealing with the reduction divisions in the male .
Since , in general , the bivalents emerge from the diffuse stage in the same form which they exhibit before its onset ; and since the heavily yolked ova of Periplaneta did not yield any critical data regarding the details of polar mitosis the nuclear history of the oocyte may be here concluded , by observing that as the bivalents become more granular in form ( fig. 21 ) they merge into reticular .
units , eventually losing their visible individuality altogether .
As in other insects , the cytoplasm of the oocyte from this point onwards undergoes enlargement .
This stage also synchronises with other events in the egg : firstly , the mitochondria which are well preserved in unacidified chromosmic preparations cease to congregate around the centro-some as in the young oocytes and oogonia ( fig. 8 ) , migrate from the neighbourhood of the nucleus , and become dispersed uniformly in the surrounding cytoplasm ; secondly , infection by the symbiotic bacteria { Bacillus ) described by Mercier(14 ) , and indicated in fig. 28 , usually occurs at this point , a well-defined zone of symbionts being seen in the periphery of the egg by the time it assumes a definite outline ( fig. 22 ) ; finally , the plasmosome is seen to undergo changes to be described hereinafter .
In concluding this account of the nuclear history of the ovarian oocyte , attention may now be directed to the criticism of those opponents of para-synapsis , such as Meves , Fick , andDuesberg , who , while emphasising like the telosynaptic school the importance of an understanding of the premeiotic prophase , appear to recognise that the interpretation of the early events of the heterotype nucleus in terms of a normal prophase can only be accepted for animals by rejecting the doctrine of synapsis itself .
Duesberg after affirming , Mr. L. T. Hogben .
" un premier ^l^ment absolument indispensable a sa solution ( the problem of numerical reduction ) c'est la connaissance approfondie des prophases de la mitose somatique , " passes on to explain the parallel fusion , so often described , in the zygotene stage , in the following terms : " les grosses trav^es no se forment pas par fusionnement lateral de deux fins filaments , mais se produisent de la faqon suivante , certaines travees reqoivent la chromatine qui charge les trav^es s^condaires ... .
c'est le parallelisrne des filaments chromatiques qui produit les images qui ont dt4 interpretees comme un fusionnement lateral de chromosomes . . . .
" ( 15 ) .
As a statement of fact , this has been sufficiently dealt with by Wilson .
Let it be admitted nevertheless that " un connaissance approfondie des prophases de la mitose somatique " is an essential condition for the correct interpretation of the meiotic phase ; let it be conceded , moreover , that many advocates of parasynapsis have paid too little attention to such phenomena : on what facts does Duesberg base his comparison of the somatic and maturation prophases ?
Obviously , there are three valid criteria : similarity in shape , number , and dispositions of the chromatin units .
As regards the first , nothing could display a more marked difference from the gross bacilliform chromosomes of the prophase of a normal mitosis and their compact granular precursors in the condensation of the reticulum than the attenuated and finely beaded loops seen in the heterotype nucleus from its very inception ; there is evidently no basis of comparison to be sought in this direction .
Turning next to the numerical relations , Duesberg disdains to consider the witness of numerous observers to the existence of the full diploid number of filaments before synapsis ; it is , therefore , not surprising that he fails to appreciate the dissimilarity of the zygotene stage to any phenomenon characteristic of the nuclear history of the premeiotic germ cells .
When finally the orientation of the bouquet , so common in representatives of the most diverse groups of animals ( fiat worms , insects , molluscs , fishes , amphibia , and mammals ) , is taken into consideration , Duesberg can only protest that in a few cases a typical bouquet is absent .
This is admittedly true ; but to deny a universal polarisation of the zygotene filaments does not invalidate the statement that the disposition of the chromatin elements in the early stages of the meiotic phase is altogether unlike their arrangement in a typical prophase nucleus .
In Periplaneta the premeiotic and maturation prophases resemble one another neither in the form , numerical behaviour , nor disposition of the chromatin units : the maturation prophase is quintessentially concerned with bringing about the conjugation in pairs of filaments which are individually equivalent to the chromosomes of the antepenultimate telophase of the germ cell divisions in the individual .
Studies on Synapsis .
It is difficult to see why it should be regarded as more scientific to interpret the phenomena of mitosis in terms of military strategics than in a manner by no means in conflict with the data , and fruitful as a working hypothesis towards a knowledge of the morphological basis of inheritance ; without , however , entering here upon a discussion of the ingenious " manoeuvre hypothesis " of Fick , it may be allowed that his followers have at least a plausible and even legitimate case when they criticise the doctrine of synapsis on the ground that there is as yet no direct general evidence for the persistent individuality of chromosomes .
When , on the other hand , they endeavour to show that the early events of the meiotic phase conflict with a belief in the reality of synapsis , their interpretation can only be described as a travesty of the facts recorded by a very large and increasing body of investigators .
The Formation of Yollc .
A single nucleolus is present in the oogonia and in the oocyte from its inception .
In the earliest stages it can be readily identified as a plasmo-some , with Auerbach or methylene blue-eosin staining methods ( fig. 10 ) .
At first spherical , it becomes enlarged and temporarily pear-shaped about the time wThen the nucleus passes into the diffuse condition , but it speedily reassumes a characteristically spherical shape .
From the beginning of the growth phase it is seen to emit minute deeply staining particles , which appear to pass bodily through the nuclear membrane and migrate to the outer boundary of the cytoplasm , where they are either ejected or transformed into some material no longer distinguishable from the ground cytoplasm itself ( figs. 21 and 22 ) .
At a certain point , which has , as will be seen later , a definite relation to the deposition of yolk , a noteworthy series of changes commence .
In Haidenhein preparations of material fixed without acetic acid , the plasmosome has hitherto displayed a markedly chromatic appearance ; it now loses its opacity , and vacuoles are recognisable in its substance ( figs. 24-27 ) .
At a later stage these vacuoles assume a granular and more chromatic form , simulating , in fact , miniature nuclei within the ground substance of the nucleolus .
The structure of the nucleolus at this stage is represented in optical section in figs. 23 , 28 , and 29 .
From now onwards , appearances suggest that the ejection of the more minute and uniformly chromatic particles alluded to above ceases , and the vacuolar bodies within the plasmosome are cast out into the karyolymph , boring their way , as it were , through the nuclear membrane , eventually to periphery of the egg ( fig. 31 ) .
As these intranucleolar bodies , which , for reasons that will be explained , may be termed deutosomes , are discharged in Mr. L. T. Hogben .
this manner , new vacuoles appear within the plasmosome , and a similar metamorphosis ensues , until the deposition of yolk is nearing completion .
In examining preparations of the eggs of Periplaneta , the observer cannot fail to be impressed with two facts , namely , that the inception of yolk formation , on the one hand , bears no relation to the size and shape of the egg , while , on the other , the first appearance of the deutoplasmic spheres clearly synchronises with the vacuolation of the plasmosome and the changes consequent thereon .
The first indication of the onset of yolk deposition is the formation of vacuolar areas in the periphery of egg ; within these are often seen the minute chromatic granules first emitted by the plasmosome , as already described .
An exactly similar process precedes the formation of the remarkable secondary nuclei of certain Hymenoptera , described in a previous communication ( 11 ) .
True secondary nuclei , however , are not formed in the Orthopteran species examined ( fig. 22 ) .
Nor do these events appear to be directly related to the formation of the deutoplasmic spheres .
The first yolk is deposited at the outer boundary of the egg in the form of spherical globules that are not homogeneous , and are , in fact , both as regards size and appearance , precisely like the intranucleolar deutosomes .
The latter break up into several homogeneous globules , which are the yolk spheres sensu stricto ( fig. 31 ) .
Thus it seems probable that the nuclear appearance presented by the intranucleolar bodies is the result of adsorption to the surface layers of an internally heterogeneous mass in process of dissolution .
That the plasmosome stands in an intimate functional relation to the formation of yolk will not be regarded as improbable by those who have studied oogenesis in insects , and many investigators of this problem have recognised the synchronism of yolk formation and the ejection of nuclear granules .
In tracing the yolk spheres of Periplaneta to an intraplasmosomal origin , the present author has not arrived at this solution without considerable diffidence , and , were it not for the possession of a very complete series , would hesitate to advocate such a conclusion .
It may be said , however , that very similar events were observed in certain Hymenoptera , although no account was given , in view of the desirability of examining more favourable material with more suitable technique .
The seriation of stages in Periplaneta is facilitated in this matter by the independence of deutoplasmic differentiation and cytoplasmic bulk , while the relation of the former to the vacuolation of the plasmosome is too striking to escape notice , even when the attention is primarily focussed on other questions .
From the heterochromosomes in the synaptic period and the facts elucidated above , it might well be surmised that the accessory body described by Buchner ( 96 ) in Gryllus as the equivalent of the male heteroStudies on Synapsis .
chromosomes is in reality a plasmosome .
To test this possibility , the oogenesis of Gryllus domesticus was investigated , and the results justified anticipation .
While insufficient material was studied to yield a complete account of the synaptic phase , it may be added that follicular mitoses clearly indicate that the heterochromosomes of the female are paired .
No more need be said on this matter , since Gutherz ( 16 ) has denied the authenticity of Buchner 's observations , and Mohr has based a very destructive criticism of Buchner 's theory of the trophic function of accessory chromosomes on his own researches into the oogenesis of Leptophyes ( 13 ) .
An inspection of Buchner 's figures of badly fixed preparations , evidently overstained in iron hsematoxylin , will suffice to vindicate Yejdovsky 's ( 17 ) comment that his " Angaben und bildlichen Darstellungen der ganze Reifungsperiode der Grylluseier sind ganz wertlos .
" A point of more general significance , however , arises in this connection .
Various authors appear to assume that the nuclear ( so-called chromatin ) particles , formed during the growth period of the egg and ejected into the surrounding cytoplasm , are derived from the chromatin reticulum ; and the question of the bearing of these phenomena , on Boveri 's theory of persistent individuality , has recently been raised by Gatenby ( 18 ) , according to whom these particles in Apanteles are identical in all their reactions with chromatin itself .
It might be pointed out , in reply , that chromosomal structures themselves are not identical in all their staining reactions , and the existence of a technical diagnosis of " chromatin " by staining is doubtful .
It is well known that physical differential staining is a process in which a large number of factors participate , such as the elasticity , permeability , size , and fixation of the material , the diffusibility and concentration of the dye , the period over which and the temperature at which the experiment is conducted .
Thus substances of identical chemical constitution can be differentially stained , while conversely dissimilar compounds may be dyed alike .
Clearly , then , the only crucial test available is continuity or discontinuity of structure .
The suggestion is here advanced that further study would reveal the origin of the so-called chromatin granules emitted from the nucleus at the diffuse stage in the plasmosome of forms other than Periplaneta , and a reconsideration of previous preparations confirms this belief , as far as the Cynipids are concerned .
As one writer on the subject has commented felicitously , chromatin is a morphological rather than a specific chemical substance : morphologically there is no adequate evidence of continuity of structure between the chromosomes and the plasmosome , directly or indirectly , as a study of the telophase demonstrates .
It is for those who like Schaxel(19 ) speak of the Mr. L. T. Hogben .
part played by chromatin in the genesis of the oocyte to furnish such evidence .
Nevertheless the demonstration of the chromatin origin of the nuclear granules which appear to he extruded\#151 ; and the onus of proof lies with those who make the affirmation\#151 ; would not be a fatal blow to Boveri 's theory ; for those who advocate a structural continuity of substance between individual chromosomes do not necessarily conceive chromatin as a static constituent of the cell : if the ultimate mechanism of inheritance is conceived to reside in the autocatalytic properties of the substance of the chromosomes , the elimination of chromatin raises no special objection .
A study of the conditions under which the cell structures hitherto described as nucleoli are formed and their relation to the chromatic organisation of the nucleus would perform a genuine service to cytological theory .
Chubb ( 20 ) has described the relation of the nucleolus to the deposition of yolk in the Echinoderm Antedon ; and in many points his observations display similarity to those set forth above : but it must not be inferred that the data supplied by the examination of fixed material necessarily furnish a faithful facsimile of the actual process as it occurs in the living organism .
In the absence of further evidence derived from ultramicroscopical examination of fresh tissue , it can only be legitimately inferred that a transportation of material from the nucleolus is instrumental in the formation of the deutoplasmic spheres .
It is necessary to state this because of the difficulty of imagining the movement of comparatively large bodies in viscous media according to such a definite mode of procedure .
Whether then the gemmules correspond to fluid globules or solid particles of corresponding magnitude , or whether they are to be regarded as precipitation products of a diphasic colloidal system , cannot be definitely stated .
There are , however , two considerations which uphold the former alternative , namely : ( a ) the constancy of magnitude exhibited by these bodies after precipitation by a variety of reagents ( vide infra ) ; and ( b ) correspondence in size , when seen in media of apparently different density ( nucleolus , karyolymph , and cytoplasm ) .
The nucleolar particles observed in Periplaneta are not identical in their staining reactions with the chromatin network ; but for the reasons stated emphasis will not be laid on this point .
As regards the logwood dyes , Haidenhein after fixation with picroformol-acetic ( Bouin ) , bichromate acetic ( Tellyesnicsky ) , chromosmic acetic ( Flemming ) , caused the plasmosome in the very young oocyte to stain deeply like the reticulum : in later stages , as figured , the chromaticity of the former appears to diminish , giving a translucent greyish effect immediately before the formation of the deuto-somes .
After acid-free fixation\#151 ; chromosmic ( Gatenby)\#151 ; the plasmosome was seen to be deeply chromatic at all stages , when stained with iron Studies on Synapsis .
hrematoxylin , but translucent and less chromatic than the reticulum at all stages after treatment with hsemalum .
In all these cases the early nucleolar particles were deeply stained by the dye .
With methylene blue-eosin staining the plasmosome and nucleolar particles and gemmules were basophil , and indistinguishable from the reticulum after acid fixation , but acidophil and sharply differentiated from the network after fixation by Gatenby 's method .
Auerbach 's fuchsin methyl green after sublimate acetic treatment gave a definite differentiation ; but after acid-free fixation acidified Ehrlich Biondi 's methyl green-fuchsin-orange G failed to give the characteristic chromatin reaction .
2 .
Spermatogenesis in P. americana .
The spermatogenesis of the Blattidse has been dealt with from various aspects by la Valette St. George , Von Bath , Erlanger , Stevens and Wassilieff ; but as none of these writers have been primarily concerned with matter under consideration\#151 ; the problem of synapsis\#151 ; it is hardly necessary to include further reference to their work .
Farmer and Moore , '05 , and Morse , '09 , on the other hand devoted their attention principally to a description of the reductive processes ; and as will be seen later , their conclusions are signally lacking in conformity on most points of crucial interest .
Neither of these investigators paid any attention to the oogenesis of the same species , though as already shown the early events of the meiotic phase can be there witnessed with remarkable clarity and precision .
Owing partly to the greater width and adiposity of the testes as compared with the minute ovarioles of the larvae , it is difficult in the former case to ensure a sufficiently rapid penetration to preserve the contraction stages in good condition , and even with smear preparations which are subject to instantaneous fixation the constitution of the bouquet presents a very much more difficult problem in the male sex cells than in those of the alternate sex .
Nevertheless there remain certain points for the elucidation of which the spermatogenesis offers more favourable material for study than oogenesis .
By securing a supply of testes from individuals that have not attained to sexual maturity it is possible to obtain plentiful sections from cysts exhibiting every stage between the anaphase and the formation of the spermatogonial reticulum .
Later instars likewise provide a greater proportions of cysts with heterotypic prophases and metaphases than will be found to occur in the testes of the adult .
Special attention will therefore be paid in this section to : ( a ) the character of the premeiotic telophase in its bearing on the heterotypic prophase ; and ( 5 ) the means by which the diplotene loops are transformed into the mature spindle bivalents .
Mr. L. T. Hogben .
The Premeiotic Telophase .
That the oogonial chromosomes do not exhibit cleavage either in the telophase or earlier in the anaphase is very certain in Periplaneta ; but since mitoses are rare in the ovarioles full details as to the genesis of the nuclear reticulum are difficult to obtain .
In Parmer and Moore 's account of the spermatogenesis of this species the events of the premeiotic telophase are not described ; while Morse figures at this stage a homogeneous mass of iron hsemotoxylin which hardly sheds any further light on the question .
In general it may be said that zoological writers with very few exceptions have paid little attention to it , though in the case of plants it appears that a proper understanding of the premeiotic telophase provides the key to the earlier processes of synapsis .
It is obvious that to attempt a recomparison of the maturation prophases in animals and plants , it is above all things essential to gain such an understanding .
The clumping together of the chromosomes of the spermatogonial telophase shown in the illustrations to so many papers , is in the opinion of the present writer purely an artifact due to bad fixation , inappropriate staining , and in general to a failure to recognise that almost every stage of cell history requires separate technical attention .
All acid fixatives , and in particular the sublimate mixtures , produce a swelling , which is admittedly advantageous in estimating the chromosome numbers of metaphase plates , where each chromosome is widely separated from its neighbours ; but as chromosomes pass to the poles of the spindle , they become approximated more closely , so that it is desirable to use acid-free mixtures such as platinic formol , which produce a shrinkage rather than a swelling of the individual elements .
By such methods it is possible not only to recognise the telophase chromosomes individually but to ensure that any evidence of cleavage which would be obscured by swelling does not escape observation .
One further point should be added , it is useless to study the telophase in Haidenhein preparations ; a transparent stain such as gentian violet ( corrected with a light filter ) is to be preferred .
The arc-shaped chromosomes of the spermatogonial metaphase display median fibre attachment until the anaphase ; and no indication of cleavage is to be seen ( figs. 32 , 33 ) .
On reaching the poles of spindle the chromosomes become arranged with their long axis in the plane that is parallel with the axis of the spindle itself .
This circumstance greatly facilitates the study of their behaviour , in sections transversely cut with reference to the spindle , the telophase chromosomes appear as points , the number of which is about thirty-two ( cf. figs. 33 , 34 ) .
The appearance of the nuclear membrane precedes the dissolution of the spindle , though no spindle remains are found in Studies on .
the typical resting cells .
At this stage the individual chromosomes become attenuated , at first retaining their parallel arrangement ; and in this condition as well as in the succeeding stage , when they become scattered in the nucleus without orientation with respect to the spindle , it is possible to make quite certain that they remain undivided ( fig. 35 ) .
The scattered threadlike telophase chromosomes then become more granular , less definite in outline , assuming a zigzag delineation , in which condition they merge into the reticulum ( fig. 36 ) .
The process by which the prophase chromosomes are built up has been fully described by Farmer and Moore .
It is described by them in the following terms : " mitosis is ushered in by the increasingly chromatic appearance of the cells ... .
at first the cells which are preparing for division present an even granulation of the chromatin within their nuclei , and this in its consistency strongly suggests a foam structure of the ordinary type ; but after a time the chromatin confusion , as it were , sorts itself out into obvious condensations or flocculent areas , and it is apparently unquestionable that each of these clouds is individually the forerunner of one of the future chromosomes .
The gradual condensation which occurs in each cloud proceeds moreover in such a manner that the chromatic granules become arranged in two distinct rows or tracts .
So that by the time the individual chromosomes have attained to some sharpness of definition they appear also as if they had been longitudinally split from end to end .
" Apart from the negative generalisation that there is no stage at which the prochromosomes are undivided , this account is unexceptionable .
That the flocculent prochromosomes of the prophase are , however , at first undivided , can be shown in smear preparations , as would be expected from what occurs in the preceding telophase .
In any case , the premeiotic divisions of Periplaneta , unlike the archesporial divisions of Osmuuda , do not show an increasingly intimate association of half-chromosomes , resulting in the organisation of the complete univalent chromosome in anticipation of the metaphase ; on the contrary , the cleavage of the chromosomes in Periplaneta exhibits progressive differentiation , beginning in the inception of the prophase itself .
This distinction is doubtless correlated with the different behaviour of the chromosomes in the telophases of the two cases ; it may therefore be said that behaviour of the chromosomes in the telophase of the premeiotic mitosis amply confirms the conclusion that each loop of the leptotene bouquet is equivalent to a whole univalent .
The modification of the process which occurs in the last premeiotic division is correctly described by Morse .
Mr. L. T. Hogben .
Synapsis .
Farmer and Moore commence their account with maximal contraction .
No conflict arises therefore between their interpretation of the mode of synapsis derived from the formation of the heterotype chromosomes and the processes involved in the elaboration of the synaptic bouquet .
Morse , on the other hand , gives data less detailed but essentially in unison with those already described in the early history of the ovarian oocyte .
The polar orientation is preceded by a tangled leptotene stage , in which the individual filaments are only traceable with great difficulty : as polarisation sets in , optical sections reveal the presence of about thirty , i.e. , the diploid number of threads ; later , as described by Farmer and Moore , only sixteen thickened loops are seen .
Throughout these stages the unpaired accessory is recognised as a fusiform body closely applied to the plasmosome , and hence confused with that body by Moore and Eobinson ( 21 ) .
Morse does not describe the zygotene stage , but concludes from the arrangement and numerical relations of the threads before and during maximal contraction that parallel conjugation occurs .
In good transparently stained preparations evidence of the actual assembling of the loops in pairs can nevertheless be traced , though this is admittedly difficult , owing to the compact state of the chromatin filaments .
Fig. 56 in Farmer and Moore 's paper suggests a zygotene stage in which the interspace between two diverging loops is too much stained to allow the line of separation to be manifest .
In the unravelling of the postsynaptic spireme the diplotene threads undergo a very complicated metamorphosis that cannot in the least be regarded as a typical meiotic phenomenon : they first become extended and later shortened , so that Farmer and Moore speak of a second contraction figure .
This is not in the strict usage of the phrase " a contraction .figure , " because the threads lie manifestly on the nuclear membrane , though they happen to be concentrated towards one pole of the nucleus .
At a still later stage , as Morse figures , half of the loops are seen at one pole and the remainder at the opposite one , this condition being preceded by the division and separation of the centrosome in preparation for the ensuing heterotype mitosis .
A Sequential Analysis of the Heterotype Complex .
It has been seen in the oocyte that after the dissolution of post-synaptic spireme the diplotene loops become straighter and shorter .
In the formation of the heterotype chromosomes of the male , however , according to Farmer and Moore , the loops of what they term second contraction separate and immediately unite by their free ends to form ring-like chromosomes which Studies on Synapsis .
become stretched lengthwise of the spindle and divide transversely .
Two rings in their account remain open at one side and retain evidence of the diplotene cleavage ; they are stated to divide in the same way as the remainder .
According to Morse , on the other hand , the polarised loops straighten out and proceed to division in the following manner : " The chromosomes come to lie in the equator of the cell with their longitudinal axes in that plane .
Some of the bodies precociously arrange themselves for division , while others lag behind .
For this reason one cell may present an almost complete history of the division of the chromosomes .
The attachment of the spindles fibres . . . .
may be in the middle thus pulling the daughter chromosomes apart symmetrically to form a ring ; or the attachment may be nearer one end of the chromosome than the other , so that the daughter chromosomes are pulled out at first into a bracket figure . .
These two descriptions , the one telosynaptic , the other parasynaptic , are needless to say mutually exclusive ; moreover , neither is adequate .
The inadequacy of the last is indicated by the sentence italicised , since if the chromosomes of the heterotype mitosis differ inter se , as regards the actual form of the cleavage , a complete history can obviously only be obtained by tracing out the genesis of each chromosome individually .
As regards Farmer and Moore 's interpretation , it is only necessary to say that they only figure two chromosomes giving any indication of the method of transformation which they describe in the text .
A sequential analysis of the chromosome complex in the heterotype metaphase is a matter of great difficulty , where the number of chromosomes is as large as in Periplaneta , and since it may be stated without exaggeration that of the sixteen bivalents , no two pass through all stages of the transformation from the diplotene threads ( and loops ) synchronously , space does not permit the illustration of a complete series of nuclei demonstrating every detail of the transition from the post-synaptic bouquet to the heterotype telophase .
In the present investigation it was possible to obtain a series of reconstructions of whole nuclei representing some fifteen stages : in the interpretation of these a certain element of error may arise in consequence of the fact that the form attributed to a particular chromosome of necessity depends on whether it is superimposed upon another , the plane in which it is viewed , and like considerations .
So that no single cell from section or smear preparation is adequate for a given stage , while it is not always possible to find another cell at exactly the same stage to settle a doubtful point .
However , after a prolonged and somewhat tedious comparison of a very large number of nuclei , it is possible to record with assurance the main facts .
At the inception of the metaphase fourteen out of Mr. L. T. Hogben .
the sixteen bivalents are rod-shaped or arc-like , the remaining two being much more attenuated and still retaining the looped condition in which the diplotene threads emerge from the bouquet stage .
These latter will be called the a and a ' chromosomes , and it will be remembered that there is a similar lagging behind of two of the heterotype elements in the oocyte described earlier in this paper .
The order and method of division of the bivalents is as follows : ( 1 ) the first seven divide longitudinally by median fibre attachment being drawn out into elongated rings which are segmented transversely ; ( 2 ) of the next seven , the first three divide with subterminal attachment , Four types of division exhibited by the heterotype chromosomes in metaphase .
I. Median fibre attachment\#151 ; the first seven chromosomes divide in this manner .
II .
Subterminal fibre attachment\#151 ; four of the later bivalents to divide are of this type .
Ill and IY .
The a and a ' chromosomes which retain the looped condition of the bouquet threads till the other fourteen are already in telophase .
while of the remaining four , it appears that three probably show median fibre attachment : Morse 's belief that these chromosomes which are attached to the spindle subterminally are drawn out into bracket-like figures was not confirmed : the best preparations show that these too give rise to stretched rings of the usual type ; ( 3 ) the a and a ' chromosomes retain their looped forms until the other chromosomes have completely segmented , so that they evidently represent the open-ring type described by Farmer and Moore .
Actually they become abbreviated , last of all being drawn out into rings by the method of longitudinal division described for their fellows .
Thus Studies on Synapsis .
the segmentation of the ring-like heterotype chromosomes transversely is brought about by the separation of the diplotene threads longitudinally for all cases alike .
G-reat importance is attached to the retarded division of the a and chromosomes , since their behaviour emphasises how easy it is to read the sequence of events in the heterotype metaphase in the wrong order unless the attempt is made to follow the genesis of each unit separately .
No doubt it is for this reason that the erroneous telosynaptic description of the direct formation of rings from loops by transverse division of the diplotene threads has arisen .
Regarding the second maturation divisions of the male germ cells there is nothing to add to previous work , since it is agreed by all that the second division is equational .
This does not necessarily imply that reduction is effected in the heterotype mitosis ; for so far as the male is concerned there is no evidence that the line of separation of the diplotene components corresponds to the plane in which the leptotene filaments approximate in synapsis .
It is believed , however , that this is definitely the case in the oocyte .
The point is really very important ; if , and only if , data respecting pre- or post-reduction are available , can the process of gametic segregation be demonstrated directly .
On the evidence submitted it would appear : ( a ) that the filaments which conjugate side by side in the bouquet stage correspond to whole premeiotic chromosomes ; ( ) that the maturation divisions are of such a type as to provide for a segregation of alternate components of the bivalents so constituted .
Respecting the further question of the relation of the heterotype chromosomes to the biparental complex of the zygote no data are submitted ; and the reality of synapsis will not , therefore , be discussed .
The conclusions here advocated are in harmony with those of other recent workers on Orthopteran chromosomes , namely : Wenrioh , 1917 ( 22 ) , Gerard ( 23 ) , Robertson , 1915 ( 24 ) , working on Acrididae ; Otte , 1907 ( 25 ) and Mohr , 1915 on the Locustidae ; Stevens , 1912 ( 26 ) on Centophilus ; also Robertson on Tettigidse and Vejdovsky , 1912 on locustids .
Further it may be said that Baumgartner 's figures of the metamorphosis of the heterotype chromosomes in Gryllus likewise suggest an original parasynaptic union ( 30 ) .
With respect to the problem of synapsis in the Orthoptera , it may be said that no group has provoked more controversy ; but while divergence exists to a very great extent , it must be remembered that the bulk of the work is concerned mainly with chromosomal individuality and the Accessories ; few authors like Wenrich and the present writer have set out primarily to investigate the mode of synapsis .
Hence the conclusions that have been expressed have been based too often on an inadequate supply of material showing the earlier VOL. xci.\#151 ; b. 2 c Mr. L. T. Hogben .
stages ; no data respecting these stages in the oocyte , where they are particularly clear ; and , finally an incomplete series showing the critical stages in heterotype metaphase of preparations fixed with Flemming 's reagent .
An account of telosynapsis in the closely allied Plecoptera has recently been published by Nakahara , 1919 ( 28 ) ; the material was partly fixed in Bouin ; it is implied that only adult testes were employed ; and it is , therefore , not surprising that typical early stages are lacking , while the evidence regarding the first division is clearly fragmentary .
For a full discussion of Orthopteran gametogenesis the reader is referred to the excellent review of the subject by McClung ( 29 ) , who expresses no judgment on the original method by which homologous chromosomes are brought into association .
Apart from the work of Nakahara , one other recent communication in part adheres to the telo-synaptic interpretation of the Orthopteran tetrad .
According to Payne , 1914 ( 33 ) , some of the rings in Forficula are transformed in the manner described by Farmer and Moore , Sutton , Davis and other pioneer workers ; while others conform to the mode described here as also by the list of authors quoted above .
Such a view makes the earlier events of synapsis so unintelligible as to amount to a practical denial of synapsis .
In the light of the data given above regarding the a and a ' chromosomes , as well as for the consideration stated , it is hardly possible to accept Payne 's conclusion unreservedly until confirmed .
Summary .
( 1 ) Oogenesis and spermatogenesis in Periplaneta have been studied , the former for the first time ; special attention has been paid to the events of the telophase in its bearing on the relation of the events of the meiotic phase in animals and plants respectively .
( 2 ) The chromosomes do not divide in the premeiotic mitoses , as they pass to the polar ends of the spindle ; in the telophase , they become attenuated before passing into the reticulate condition , but do not display any evidence of cleavage .
( 3 ) The splitting of individual chromosomes begins in the prophase , the separation of the halves being a process of progressive differentiation ; cleavage is completed before they adopt the equatorial position in the metaphase .
( 4 ) Metaphase counts confirmed Morse 's contention that there are two accessory chromosomes in the female cells and an unpaired heterochromosome in the male .
( 5 ) Oogenesis in Periplaneta offers much more favourable conditions for a study of the earlier events of synapsis than spermatogenesis , but in essentials the processes are similar , with the exception of the fact that the Studies on Synapsis .
327 accessory chromosomes in the f.emale behave in all respects like the autosomes .
( 6 ) In its .
earliest stages , the heterotype prophase differs from the pre-meiotic reticulate nucleus in the organisation of the chromatin in the form of elongated , finely beaded filaments , forming an intricate tangle .
( 7 ) The polarised leptotene threads of the early bouquet are present in the full diploid number .
( 8 ) Parallel conjugation of leptotene threads takes place in the bouquet stage at the point of maximal contraction .
( 9 ) The diplotene loops of the post-synaptic spireme become straightened and abbreviated , in anticipation of their transformation into heterotype chromosomes .
( 10 ) In both cases two of the bivalents retain their looped condition till the transformation of the remainder has already made considerable progress , and it is suggested that the differential rate of metamorphosis of annular heterotype chromosomes has given rise to the appearance that the latter are formed through the union of the free ends of a diplotene loop .
( 11 ) The heterotype chromosomes are formed by the opening out of the shortened diplotene rods along the line of cleavage , so as to assume eventually the form of stretched rings .
( 12 ) From the fact that , in the oocyte , the splitting of the diplotene filaments appears to correspond with the plane in which conjugation takes place , it is inferred that segregation of homologous chromosomes is effected in the heterotype mitosis .
( 13 ) A comparison has been made of the events of the meiotic phase in Periplaneta and Osmunda , as set forth in Miss Digby 's most recent work ; the existence of a single contraction phase in animals , and the character of the telophase in premeiotie divisions , indicate that there is no valid basis for the comparison of the initial processes in animals and plants .
( 14 ) The elimination of " chromatin " particles in the diffuse stage of the oocyte nucleus has been fully investigated ; it has been shown that the formation of yolk is consequent upon the elimination of material from the plasmosome , and the suggestion is made that similar nuclear particles in other animals arise from the plasmosome .
This research was conducted in Prof. MacBride 's laboratory at the Imperial College of Science ; acknowledgment is made to Profs .
MacBride , Doncaster , and Dobell\#151 ; to the former for his kindness in reading the MS .
, and to the two last named for bibliographical ^references .
2 c 2 Mr. L. T. Hogben .
BIBLIOGRAPHY .
( 1 ) Schreiner , A. and K. E. , " Never Studien iiber die Chromatin der Geschlechtzellen , " ' Arch , de Biol. , ' vol. 22 , 1906 .
( 2 ) Janssens , " Evolution des auxocytes males du Batracoseps , " 'La Cellule , ' vol. 22 , 1905 .
( 3 ) Agar , " The spermatogenesis of Lepidosirenpar'Q.J.M.S .
, ' vol. 57 , 1912 .
( 4 ) Wilson , " Studies on Chromosomes.\#151 ; VIII , " ' Journ. Exptl .
Zool. , ' vol. 13 , 1912 .
( 5 ) Goldschmidt , " Ueber das Verhalten des Chromatins bei der Eireifung , u.s.w. , des Dicrocoelium , " * Arch , fiir Zellforsch .
, ' I , 1908 .
( 6 ) Buchner , " Has accessoriche Chromosom im Spermatogenese und Ovogenese der Orthoptera , " ' Arch , fiir Zellforsch .
, ' vol. 3 , 1909 .
( 7 ) Gregoire , " Les cinfeses de maturation dans les deux regnes , " 'La Cellule , ' vol , 26 , 1910 .
( 8 ) Farmer and Moore , " The Meiotic Phase in Animals and Plants , " ' Q.J.M.S. , ' vol. 48 , 1905 .
( 9 ) Digby , " The A rehesporial and Meiotic Mitoses in Osmunda , " ' Ann. Bot. , ' No , 130 , 1919 .
( 10 ) Paulcke , " Ueber die Differenzierung der Zellenelemente im Ovarium der BienenKonigin , " 'Zool .
Jahrb .
, Abt .
Anat .
, ' vol. 14 , 1906 .
( 11 ) Hogben , " Studies on Synapsis.\#151 ; I , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proe .
' { supra , p. 268 ) .
( 12 ) Morse , " The nuclear components of the sex cells in four species of Cockroaches , " ' Arch , fiir Zellforsch .
, ' vol. 3 , 1909 .
( 13 ) Mohr , " Sind die Heterochromosomen wahre Chromosomen ?
" 'Arch , fiir Zellforsch .
, ' vol. 14 , 1916 .
( 14 ) Mercier , " Recherches sir les Bactero'ides des Blattides , " ' Arch , fiir Protist , ' vol. 9 , 1907 .
( 15 ) Huesberg , " Note compltknentaire sir la spermatogtm\amp ; se du rat , " 'Arch , fiir Zellforsch .
, ' vol. 3 , 1909 .
( 16 ) Gutherz , " Wird die Annahme einer Beziehung zwischen Heterochromosomen und Geschlechtsbestimmung durch das Studium der Gryllus-Ovogenese widerlegt , " 'Sitzber .
Ges .
Naturforsch .
Freunde zu Berlin , ' 9 .
( 17 ) Vejdovsky , " Zum Problem der Vererbungstrager , " ' Bohm .
Gesell .
Wiss .
, ' Prag .
, 1912 .
( 18 ) Gatenby , " The Cytoplasmic inclusions of the germ cells.\#151 ; VI , ' ' 'Q.J.M.S .
, ' vol. 64 , 1919 .
( 19 ) Schaxel , " Das Verhalten des Chromatin bei der Eibildung einiger Hydrozoen , " 'Zool .
Jahrb .
, ' vol. 31 , 1911 .
( 20 ) Chubb , " The growth of the Oocyte in Antedon , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 198 , 1906 .
( 21 ) Moore and Robinson , " On the behaviour of the nucleolus in the spermatogenesis of Periplaneta americana , " 'Q.J.M.S .
, ' vol. 48 , 1905 .
( 22 ) Wenrich , " The Spermatogenesis of Phrynotettix , etc. , " 'Bull .
Mus. Comp. Zool. , ' vol. 60 , 1916 ; " Synapsis and Chromosome organisation in Stenobothrus and Trimerotropis , " 'Journ .
Morph .
, ' vol. 29 , 1917 .
( 23 ) Gerard , " Recherches sir la spermatogenese chez Stenobothrus , " ' Arch , de Biol. , ' vol. 24 , 1909 .
( 24 ) Robertson , " Chromosome Studies.\#151 ; III , " 'Journ .
Morph .
, ' vol. 26 , 1916 .
( 25 ) Otte , " Samenreifung und Samenbildung von Locusta viridis " ' Zool. Anz .
, ' vol. 30 , 1906 .
( 26 ) Stevens , " Supernumerary chromosomes and synapsis in Centophilus , " 'Biol .
Bull .
, ' vol. 22 , 1912 .
Hogben .
Roy .
Soc Proc. , B , Vol. PI .
10 .
t .
# .
; Hogben .
Roy .
Soc. Proc.t B , Vo/ , PI .
n. .
O o 4m o W 23 .
Hogben .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B , p/ , Pl .
12 .
rsi / ... \#171 ; : Studies on Synapsis .
( 28 ) Nakahara , " Spermatogenesis in Perla , " ' Journ. Morph .
, ' vol. 33 , 1919 .
( 29 ) McClung , " A comparative Study of the Chromosomes in Orthopteran Spermatogenesis , " 'Journ .
Morph .
, ' vol. 25 , 1914 .
( 30 ) Baumgartner , " Some new evidence for the Individuality of the Chromosomes , " ' Biol. Bull .
, ' vol. 8 , 1904 .
( 31 ) Sutton , " On the morphology of the Chromosome group in Brachystola , " ' Biol. Bull .
vol. 4 , 1902 .
32 ) Davis , " Spermatogenesis in Acrididse and Locustidse , " 'Bull .
Mus. Comp. Zool. , ' 1908 .
( 33 ) Payne , " Chromosomal variation , etc. , in the European Earwig , Forficula , " ' Journ. Morph .
, ' vol. 25 , 1914 .
( 34 ) Winiwartner and Saimont , " Nouvelles recherches sir l'ovogenkse et 1'organogenese de l'ovaire des mammiferes , " ' Arch , de Biol. , ' vol. 24 , 1909 .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 10 .
Figs. 1-3.\#151 ; Oogonial prophase , stages .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Oogonial metaphase , equatorial plate ( 34 chromosomes ) .
Figs. 5-7.\#151 ; Follicular prophases .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Early leptotene .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Leptotene bouquet .
( Lateral view .
) m. , mitochondria .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Ditto in section .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; Synaptene stage .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; Pachytene stage ( maximal contraction figure ) .
Figs. 13 , 14.\#151 ; Diplotene post-synaptic bouquet .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; Early diplotene stage in section .
Fig. 16.\#151 ; Segmentation of the postsynaptic spireme .
Plate 11 .
Figs. 17-19 and 21.\#151 ; Formation of and dissolution of the tetrads .
Fig. 20.\#151 ; Late oogonial anaphase .
Figs. 21 , 22.\#151 ; Very young oocytes at inception of growth phase . .
, nuclear particles ; m. , mitochondria ; b. and z.b. , Bacillus cuenoti ; v. , cytoplasmic vacuoles .
Fig. 23.\#151 ; Germinal vesicle of egg at later stage , showing the vacuolation of the plasmo-some .
Figs. 24-29.\#151 ; Stages in the appearance of the deutosomes within plasmosome in acid-fixed logwood preparations .
Fig. 30.\#151 ; Zygotene stage of the bouquet in young oocyte .
Plate 12 .
Fig. 31.\#151 ; Egg at inception of yolk formation , showing migration of intranucleolar deutosomes to the periphery of the egg to form the deutoplasmic spheres .
Figs. 32 , 33.\#151 ; Spermatogonial anaphases .
Figs. 34-36.\#151 ; Stages in the passage of the telophasic chromosomes into the resting nucleus reticulum .

