" Qn the Rectification and Quadrature of the Spherical Ellipse .
" By James Booth , Esq. , M.A. , Principal of Bristol College .
Communicated by John T. Graves , of the Inner Temple , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. The author , at the commencement of this paper , adverts to a rather complex discussion of a portion of the subject of his inquiry by M. Catalan , published in the Journal de Mathematiques , edited by M. Lionville .
He then proceeds to establish two fundamental theorems , apply ?
cable to , ?
lst , the quadrature , and 2nd , the rectification of the sphe ?
rical ellipse .
lst .
The quadrature of the spherical ellipse is reduced to the calculation of a complete elliptic function of the third order , whose parameter and modulus are quantities essentially related to the cone ; its parameter being the square of the eccentricity of the ellipse , whose plane is at right angles to the axis of the cone , and its modulus being the sine of the semi-angle between the focals .
2nd .
The rectification of the spherical ellipse is made to depend on a complete elliptic function of the third order , whose parameter is the same as in the preceding case , but whose modulus is the sine of the angle between the planes of the elliptic base and of one of the circular sections .
The author then proceeds to establish a remarkable relation between the area of a given spherical ellipse and the length of the spherical ellipse generated by the intersection of the supplemental cone with the same sphere .
He shows that if there are two concentric supplemental cones cut by the surface of a concentric sphere , ?
lst , the sum of their spherical bases , together with twice their lateral surfaces , is equal to the surface of the sphere ; 2nd , the difference of their spherical bases is equal to twice the difference of their lateral surfaces .
Hence , also , he deduces a remarkable theorem , viz. the sum of the spherical bases of any cone whose principal angles are supple ?
mental , cut by a sphere , together with twice the lateral surface of the cone comprised within the sphere , is equal to the surface of the sphere .
The author then , alluding to some researches of Professor MacCullagh and of the Rev. Charles Graves , Fellow of Trinity College , Dublin , proceeds to give a simple elementary proof of a wellknown formula of rectification , and thence deduces some remarkable properties of the tangent at that point of the ellipse , which is termed by him the point of rational section .
Assuming the properties of the plane ellipse , he proceeds to show that a similar formula of rectification holds for any curve generated by the intersection of a spherical surface with a concentric cone of any order .
He goes on to develope a series of properties of the spherical ellipse , bearing a striking analogy , as indeed might have been expected , to those of the plane curve .
Thus he establishes a point of rational section as in the plane ellipse , shows that the tan ?
gent are is at this point a minimum , and developes some other cu ?
rious analogies .
It is a simple consequence of his formula that the spherical elliptic quadrant may be divided into two arcs whose difference shall be represented by an are of a great circle .
This theorem , previously obtained by M. Catalan , is analogous to that of Fagnani , which shows that the difference of two plane elliptic arcs may be represented by a straight line .
The author concludes by reducing the quadrature of the surface of a cone of the second degree , bounded by a plane perpendicular to the axis , to the determination of a complete elliptic function of the second order .

