55(\gt ; On the Mixed Herbage of Permanent Meadow .
[ June 17 , VIII .
" Agricultural , Botanical , and Chemical Results of Experiments on the Mixed Herbage of Permanent Meadow , conducted for more than Twenty Years in Succession on the same Land .
Part II .
The Botanical Results .
By J. B. Lawes , LL. I ) .
, F.R.S. , F.C.S. , J. H. Gilbert , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , F.C.S. , F.L.S. , and M. T. Masters , M.D. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. Received June 17 .
1880 .
( Abstract .
) Part II.\#151 ; The Botanical Iu Part I ( " Phil. Trans. , " Part 1,1880 ) , under the title of the " cultural Results , " a general description of the experiments , with full particulars of the conditions of manuring of each of the more than twenty plots , was given .
The effects of each condition of manuring on the character of growth of the herbage , as illustrated in the quantities of produce yielded , and in the amounts of nitrogen and of mineral matter taken up , on each plot , were also fully considered .
But , so .
varied were the components of the mixed herbage , both as to the species grown , and as to the character of development of the plants , that , to render the " Agricultural results " sufficiently intelligible , and to pie\ cut misconception , if the element of quantity only were taken into account , 1880 .
] On some Points in the Pathology of Anthrax557 it was found necessary to describe , in general terms , the differences m the botanical composition , in the character of development , and m some points in the chemical composition of the produce also .
The object of the present section is to describe and discuss , more in detail , what may be called the botany of the plots ; that is , to show both the normal botanical composition of the herbage , and the changes induced , by the application of the different manuring agents , and by variations in the climatal conditions of the different seasons ; and , as far as may be , to ascertain what are the special characters of growth , above-ground or'under-ground , normal or induced , by virtue of which the various species have dominated , or have been dominated over , in the struggle which has ensued .
The method of taking the samples , and of conducting the botanical analyses and observations , is described .
The characters of the seasons in which complete botanical separations were made , as well as those of some of the seasons leading up to the years of separation themselves , are discussed .
The flora of the collective plots is described ; and the organization by means of which the constituent plants may maintain themselves , or succumb in the competition , is considered .
The characteristics of the individual dominant plants are pointed out ; and , finally , the botany of each of the twenty-two plots is fully detailed , and the changes induced , by season or manuring , are discussed .
IX .
" Preliminary Note on some Points in the Pathology of Anthrax , with especial reference to the Modification of the properties of the Bacillus anthracis by Cultivation , and to the Protective Influence of Inoculation with a Modified Virus .
" By W. S. Greenfield , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Professor Superintendent of the Brown Institution .
Communicated by Professor Burdon-Sanderson , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1880 .
In the course of some experimental investigations into the pathology of anthrax at the Brown Institution , made during the past twelve months , two series of phenomena have been the subject of study , and in each some results which I believe to be novel have been attained .
These results have not only a considerable practical importance , if verified by other observers , but their interest in relation to the pathology of anthrax and other diseases appears to me sufficient to warrant their communication to the Royal- Society in the form of a preliminary note , leaving the full detail of the experiments for a future occasion .
The practical purpose of these investigations was to ascertain ( 1 ) by what means the virus of splenic fever may be so modified as to be capable of inoculation without fatal result , and ( 2 ) whether a modified

