186 Mr. C. Dobell .
[ Feb. 21 , 22 .
Hammerschlag , " Ueber die Beziehung d. Fibrinfermentes zur Entstehung des Fiebers , " 'Arch .
Exp. Path .
u. Pharmak .
, ' 1891 , voL 27 , p. 1 .
23 .
Freund , H. , " Studien iiber d. Fieber d. Blutz .
u. Transf .
, " * Deutsch .
Arch. Klin .
Med. , ' December , 1911 , vol. 105 , p. 45 .
24 .
Schultz , " Ueber Transf .
b. Mensch .
u. Berttck .
biol .
Vorp .
, " ' Berl .
Klin .
Woch .
, ' 1910 , p. 1407 .
25 .
Adami , ' The Principles of Pathology , ' 1909 , p. 446 .
On the Systematic Position of By Clifford Dobell , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge ; Lecturer at the Imperial College of Science , London , S.W. ( Communicated by A. Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received February 21 , \#151 ; Read March 28 , 1912 .
) This paper is a very brief summary of the chief results of my researches on the Spirochsets and related organisms .
I have been occupied with these researches for several years , and I believe that I have now obtained sufficient evidence for it to be possible to form a correct judgment regarding the systematic position of the Spirochsets .
It is well known that various views of this problem have been taken .
Hitherto , three different opinions have been expressed , * and more or less vigorously defended , by different workers .
They are : ( 1 ) that the Spirochsets belong to the Protozoa ; ( 2 ) that they belong to the Bacteria ; ( 3 ) that they belong to the Cyanophycese .
The upholders of the first view suppose that the Spirochsets resemble the Flagellata , especially the trypanosomes .
Those who support the second view usually regard the Spirochsets as being closely similar to Spirilla .
Those who support the third view believe that the Spirochsets show points of resemblance to the spiral forms of Cyanophycese ( Spirulina and Arthrospira).^ In view of the existence of these wide differences of opinion and the corresponding mental attitudes of those who have attempted to form a judgment in this matter , I would submit the following statement regarding my own position :\#151 ; * There is a fourth view , which I formerly advocated\#151 ; namely , that the Spirocheets should be regarded as an independent group of organisms .
I no longer hold this view , as further research has shown me that it is incorrect .
+ These three views may be traced back respectively ( 1 ) to Schaudinn ( 1904 ) ; ( 2 ) to Ehrenberg ( 1833 ) , who placed Spirochceta in his family Vibrionia\#151 ; the equivalent of the modern Bacteria ; ( 3 ) to Cohn ( 1854 ) , who regarded Spirochceta as a colourless form of Spirvlina .
1912 .
] On the Systematic Position of the Spirochcets .
187 First , concerning the criteria which may be employed to decide the systematic position of the Spirochsets .
There is , in my opinion , but one kind of evidence which can lead to a correct verdict .
Judgment\#151 ; if it is to be conclusive\#151 ; must be given upon morphological evidence .
The classification of all living beings is based ultimately upon morphology\#151 ; using the word in its widest sense to mean the study of the forms of organisms at all stages in their life-histories .
If the Spirochsets are to enter our artificial system of classification , they must do so on the same terms as other organisms .
" Systematic position " must be judged by the same standard throughout , otherwise the system would be inconsistent , and the term would cease to have any definite meaning .
It is , of course , possible to characterize the Spirochaets by certain of their physiological , pathological , or chemical attributes .
But to attempt to enrol them in the system of organized beings by virtue of such attributes alone would involve the reclassification of all other living beings in the same terms .
Secondly , I think the following postulate must also be granted .
To determine the systematic position of any group of organisms it is necessary to have accurate knowledge of their structure and life-histories ; and we must have this knowledge not only of the group in question , but also of all the other groups which it may conceivably resemble .
This means , in the present case , that to determine the systematic position of the Spirochsets it is necessary to possess accurate knowledge of the morphology of the Spirochsets , the ' Flagellata , the Bacteria , and the Cyanophycese .
Without such knowledge it is not possible to assign the Spirochsets a definite place in the present system of classification. .
These two postulates are , to my mind , so indisputable that they are almost platitudes .
Nevertheless , it has become apparent to me , from the work of others , that they are neither recognised nor accepted universally .
I have particularly emphasized them because my conclusions as to the systematic position of the Spirochsets depend upon the recognition of their validity .
Desiring to determine the systematic position of the Spirochsets , I have , in accordance with my convictions , endeavoured to study the morphology of all the chief types of Spirochset .
Four different genera of these may be distinguished*\#151 ; Spirochceta Ehrenberg , Cristispira Gross , Treponema Schaudinn , * Gross is in complete agreement with me regarding the existence of these four different types .
But he regards Spironema as the correct name of the set of forms which I call Treponema .
In addition to these two names , more than half-a-dozen others have been given to these organisms\#151 ; collectively or severally .
I may mention the following:\#151 ; Spirochceta , Spirillum , Vibrio , Borrelia Spiroschaudinnia .
The nomenclature is still in great confusion .
Mr. C. Dobell .
[ Feb. and Saprospira Gross .
The four genera may be collected into a single group which I have called the Spirochsetoidea .
I have made a careful study of the morphology of two species of Spirochceta ( from fresh water ) ; four species of Gristispira ( from Lamellibranehs ) ; nine species of Treponema ( eight parasitic forms from various animals and one free-living form from fresh water ) ; one species of Saprospira ( from fresh water ) .
In addition to these , I have studied in a similar way a large number of flagellate Protozoa , Bacteria , and Cyanophyeese .
I have devoted special attention to the forms which are of special importance in the present connection .
These are certain spirillar and bacillar forms of bacteria , and the spiral forms ( , of Cyanophycese .
As nearly all these organisms are extremely small , I have naturally paid considerable attention to matters of cytological and microscopic technique .
I shall not describe here the methods which I have used , as my aim now is to give my results only .
The morphological characters which I have been able to establish in the case of the Spirochsets which I have studied are the following:\#151 ; ( 1 ) All the Spirochsets possess an elongate and more or less spirally wound body , which is non-cellular.* ( 2 ) They are flexible\#151 ; the degree of flexibility displayed differing in different species .
( 3 ) Anterorposterior polarity is absent in all genera .
In other words , during movement either end of the body may function as an anterior or posterior end .
( 4 ) The body is clothed with a pellicle , the thickness of which differs in the different genera .
( In the smallest species of Treponema and Spirochceta , the presence of a pellicle cannot be established with certainty .
) ( 5 ) All the Spirochsets which are sufficiently large for accurate observations to be made in this respect are plasmolysable .
( The results of plasmolysis are not identical in all forms .
The differences observed appear to be due to corresponding differences in the thickness and nature of the pellicle .
) ( 6 ) No flagella or other special organs of locomotion are present .
( 7 ) The cytoplasm possesses a peculiar structure\#151 ; which I have calledf the " chambered structure'\#151 ; and there is probably a form of chromidial nucleus present .
This is true of Cristispira , Saprospira , and the largest form * I cannot agree with Gross , who maintains that the Spirochsets are I believe they are all non-cellular ( " unicellular " ) .
t I have described this in detail in a previous account of Cristispira veneris ( ' Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , ' 1911 , vol. 56 ) .
My description is essentially similar to those previously given ( of other species of Cristispira ) by Laveran and Mesnil , Swellengrebel , Schellack , and Gross\#151 ; the differences being in matters of detail .
1912 .
] On the Systematic Position of the Spirochcets .
189 of Treponema which I have studied .
( A chambered structure cannot be demonstrated with certainty in the small species of Treponema and Spirochceta.)* ( 8 ) In Cristispira there is a peculiar axial thickening of the pellicle\#151 ; the crista .
I regard this as the homologue of the axial fibre of Spirochceta plicatilis .
No similar structure exists in Saprospira and the largest forms of Treponema .
( In the smallest species of Spirochceta and , it is not possible to determine whether any structure of this sort is present or not .
) ( 9 ) Metachromatic granules ( " volutin " granules ) are present in Cristispira , Scip'ospira , and Spirochceta.f Possibly they occur in Treponema also , but I have not succeeded in demonstrating their presence or absence in these forms on account of their very small size .
( 10 ) Colouring matter ( chromophyll ) is absent.^ ( 1,1 ) Cyanophycin granules are absent .
S ( 12 ) The method of multiplication is always by transverse division\#151 ; division being simple in Cristispira and Treponema , multiple in Saprospira and Spirochceta .
( 13 ) Correlated with this method of multiplication there is a marked peculiarity in the variation of the dimensions of the body , in all four genera of the Spirochsets .
The individuals of any species show a considerable variability in length\#151 ; due to growth in one dimension of space\#151 ; but not in breadth .
I may add that I have obtained no evidence of spore-formation or sexual processes in any Spirochset , and I regard as inconclusive all the evidence adduced by others to prove the existence of these phenomena .
If the Spirochtets be compared , in respect of the characters enumerated above , with the Flagellata , it will be found that the only common characters are those numbered 2 , 4 , 9,10 , 11 .
But it will also be found that these characters are common to a very large number of Protista .
The differences , on the other hand , are\#151 ; in my opinion-\#151 ; so pronounced as to exclude the Spirochsets not merely from the Flagellata , but from the whole group of the Protozoa .
The combination of characters numbered 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 13 does not occur in any known protozoon .
* * * S * From Ziilzer 's just published account of the large Spirochceta plicatilis\#151 ; a form which I have not studied in detail\#151 ; it appears that this organism also possesses protoplasm with a chambered structure .
t They have been demonstrated in Spirochceta plicatilis by Ziilzer .
I have not succeeded in demonstrating them in the two much smaller species which I have studied .
t This is present in all Cyanophycese .
S They are present in all Cyanophycese except Spirulina\#151 ; so far as I have been able to determine .
Mr. C. Dobell .
[ Feb. 21 , I have studied a large number of forms belonging to the Cyanophycese.* Those which are of special interest in the present case are the spiral forms \#151 ; Spirulina and Arthrospira .
I have made a detailed study of a marine species of the former ( S.versicolor Cohn ) , but have been able to make only fragmentary observations on Arthrospira .
I have found that both organisms differ so markedly from all the Spirochsets that I regard the possibility of any close relations between them as excluded .
The differences concern especially the cytoplasmic and nuclear structures , and the method of multiplication ( in addition to the movements and habits in general ) .
The similarities observable in the Spirochsets and the spiral forms of Cyanophycese are merely in respect of certain features common to nearly all the Schizophyta ( Bacteria and Cyanophycese ) .
In agreement with Gomont , I regard Arthrospira as a member of the Oscillatoriacese : whereas Spirulina occupies an isolated position among the other Cyanophycese .
I have not encountered the remarkable organisms named Gla by Lagerheim , and I am unable to draw any certain conclusions concerning their systematic position from the very unsatisfactory accounts of them which have been published .
From the standpoint of morphology , therefore , I believe there is no justification for the views that the Spirochsets belong to the Flagellata ( or even to the Protozoa ) , or that they belong to the Cyanophycese .
On the other hand , I think the evidence is conclusive that they cannot be placed in either of these groups .
If , however , the Spirochsets be compared with the Bacteria , f in respect of the characters enumerated above , it will be found that very striking similarities exist between the two groups .
The characters numbered 1 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 are all more or less widely recognised characters of certain of the Bacteria , many of them being characteristic of the group as a whole .
Concerning the remaining Spirochset characters I may add:\#151 ; ( a ) With regard to ( 2 ) , I have been able to show that many parasitic and freeliving bacillar forms of bacteria and at least one spirillar form ( ) are flexible .
( b ) With regard to ( 7 ) , I have been able to show that a chambered structure of the protoplasm occurs in certain spirillar and bacillar forms of bacteria , both parasitic and free living .
( c ) With regard to ( 8 ) , I have found in certain Spirilla that there is an * My researches on the cytology of the Cyanophycese have not yet been published , as they are not yet finished .
t My earlier studies on the Bacteria have already been partly published .
See especially my " Contributions to the Cytology of the Bacteria , " ' Quart .
J ourn .
Micro .
Sei .
, ' 1911 , vot .
56 .
1912.1 On the Systematic Position of the .
axial thickening of the pellicle which I believe to be homologous with the crista of Cristispiraand the axial fibre of Spirochceta .
In fine , I believe that I have been able to show that , with one exception , all the chief characters of the Spiroehsets are to be found represented in the Bacteria .
Beyond a doubt , the Spirochsetoidea resemble both the bacillar and and spirillar forms of bacteria very closely .
There is but one peculiar character which the Spirochsets possess\#151 ; namely , the power of active movement without the aid of flagella or other organs of locomotion .
No known bacteria , so far as I am aware , possess such a power .
As I believe I have been able to establish all the foregoing points in the morphology of the Spirochaets and the Bacteria , I think I am justified in drawing the conclusion that the two groups of organisms cannot be separated systematically .
In other words , the Spirochsets must be classified with the Bacteria .
The group of the Haplobacteria , as at present constituted , contains three different sets of forms\#151 ; bacillar , spirillar , and coccus forms of bacteria .
The distinction between these is , in all probability , in many cases purely arbitrary , owing to the fact that many of the Bacteria are pleomorphic .
For systematic purposes , however , it is convenient to subdivide the Haplobacteria into these three groups , which I may call Bacilloidea , ' Spirilloidea , and Coccoidea .
I believe that the Spirochsetoidea should , for the present , be regarded as a group of the same systematic status\#151 ; whatever that may be .
I fully realise that the classification of the Bacteria is , at present , impossible .
It will be possible only when the morphology and life-histories of these organisms are more fully known .
It is possible that many Spirochsets are transient forms of pleomorphic organisms .
I would suggest that the " granules " and " spores " described by several workers in several different Spirochsets are really coccus forms of these bacteria .
The systematic position which I would assign to the Spirochsets is shown in the following scheme :\#151 ; SCHIZOPHYTA Cyanophyceas f Trichobacteria Bacteria .\lt ; Coccoidea Bacilloidea l Haplobacteria Spirilloidea [ Spiroch^etoidea 'Spirochceta .
Treponema .
Cristispira Saprospira .
A full account of my researches\#151 ; with illustrations , a detailed analysis , and references to the literature\#151 ; will appear later .

