]\gt ; Mr. A. Mallock .
Some Measures of IV .
' Some Measures of Young 's Modulus for By A. MALLOCK .
Communicated by LORD B.S. Received March 9 , 1891 .
The Table at the end of this communication contains the experiments made in October , 1889\mdash ; February , 1890 , on the of various bodies .
The measures relating to crystalline bodies are , I believe , new .
The method used to obtain these resuIts was applicable to small specimens .
This was a necessary in the case of crystals , because of the difficulty of getting large specimens flaws .
In the experiments now to be described , I am dealing only the values of Young 's modulus , but by a modification of the appa ] measures can be made of the simple rigidity , which will , I hope , the subject of a future communication .
Of course , the simple rigidity must lie between one-half and third of the value of Young 's modulus , according to the ratio longitudinal extension and lateral raction ( Poisson 's for the substance .
The apparatus used in my experiments is shown in figs. 1 Fig. 1 shows the general arrangement of the parts , and full-sized diagram of the mirrol .
S and knife-edges .
The lettering is the same in both , is a Young 's Modulus for Crystals , carrying the ] ique arms .
On is mounted the tele , ayld on collimator , having in its principal focus the scale S. and K2 are two parallel horizontal knifc edges , on a support at the upper end of A. On knife edges the subto be examined rests , and a third knife edge , , parallel to other two , and half-way between them , which is properly guided free to move only in the vertical plane passing through its edge , on the substance with a force determined by the magnitude weight and its position on the graduated arm D. Mr. A. Mallock .
Some Measures of The fulcrum of is the knife-edge , and a wire passing A connects the knife-edge The tance to be examined is formed into a small beam , rather longer than the distance between the fixed , and to the projecting ends of the beam the mirrors cemented .
These mirrors mounted in brass frames , and from -oack of each frame a mall brass tongne , ' ( fig. 2 ) , which is the actual part to which the cement is applied .
The two other larger mirrors are inclined to one angle of nearly .
They are fixed in a rigid brass which rests on the horizontal flat surface , from which two project , so placed that the mounting of is in with both , the intersection of the planes of and is { he knife-edges The horizontal width of the mirrors , M2 is less than half of , and the telescope and collimator are so placed that axes of collimation graze the vertical edges of and It is necessary that the planes of and .
should be nearly , not quite , parallel , and this is effected by cementing the mirrors the experimental beam whilst the former are held in the in fig. 3 .
A spring , not shown in the figure , keeps the mirrors against the plane faces of the gauge .
These are the vertical direction but inclined to one anothsr about horizontally , i.e. , the intersect at this angle arallel to OY .
Youmg 's Modulus for Crystals , cement is applied to and before the mirrors are placed in gauge ; wheu they are in position , the beam is laid with one end and the other on , and warmed .
When cool , the experimental with the mirrors attached is removed the gauge and laid in the proper position on On looking through the telescope , two images of the scales will be seen side by side .
One of these ima.ges being formed by successive reflection from the four , in the order named , and the other by iection from and only .
The course followed by the two sets of rays is indicated by the arrows on the dotted lines in fig. 2 .
The appeal.ance of the scales in the field of the telescope is fig. 4 .
If and were absolutely parallel in a horizontal directhe scale images would at times exactly overlap one another , would make readings difficult .
long as the condition of approximate parallelism of the of the pairs of mirrors is fulfilled , any shifting of one image scale past the other is dne to an alteration of the angle between or other of the mirrors , and to that alone , and since a rigid mounting , any relative motion of the images is due to in the angle between and experiments were made by noting the relative motion of the when force was applied to the beam by the central knife-edge The course usually followed was to start with no load on , and noted the relative position of the scale images , to move until the scales had moved relatively through one divisio1l .
Mr. A. Mallock .
Some Measures of The reading was then taken on D. being then moved until another scale division had been reached , the position of was again read , and so on .
The process was afterwards and readings of same kind taken when the load was diminished step by step .
All these resuIts were then plotted , and the curve drawn the observations gave a measure of the angle between the ends beam in terms of the force applied to its middle point .
In cases the lines drawn through the plotted observations were lines , within the limits of errors of observation , but , in lines for each substance differed appreciably , according to the strains were increasing or decreasing .
Some of the diagrams are appended to show the kind of accuracy attained .
The actual linear motion of the knife-edge was always small , not in any case exceeding inch .
I pass now to the treatment applied to the experimental resuIts , order to deduce from them the values of Young 's modulus .
If are the length , breadth , and thickness of a beam ( originally straight ) , 's modulus , Normal force applied at its mid-length , Angle made by the tangent at each end with the tangent mid.length , and If , now , be the distance between the divisions of the scale , the number of divisions through which the images of the are relatively displaced , and the focal length of the collimator , the angle observed , Now , because is the actual alteration of and , and this is multiplied by two by the reflection .
Also , if be the reading of the positiou of on the arm the distance between and , the downward force acting ; hence .
In this expression , for the value of , the factor is depending only on the apparatus , since is the distance and Young 's Modulus for Crystals , is a constant for each beam , and is the inclination of the straight line passing through the plotted observations to the axis of Hence putting A for for ' and for , C. The numerical values of quantities involved in A were as follows:\mdash ; Focal length of collimator , inches .
Length between knife-edges , inch .
Distance between division of scale Distance between knife-edges The values employed for and varied between and inch , and for from to pound .
The chief and indeed the only considerable source of error in these experiments is in the measurement of .
The measures were made with , screw micrometer reading to by estimation .
The average value of was between and , so that the measurement was probably accurate to something like 1 in 400 .
Hence , there may be an error in approaching 1 per cent. In the case of crystalline substances , beams cut from the same neighbourhood of the same crystals exhibit a constancy , irr the resuIts obtained from them , of this order , but in passing to othel .
specimens more ference was observed .
In many substances , and notably in the case of zinc , lead , and white luarble , it was found that the full deflection due to a given load was not reached until a considerable time had elapsed , and experiments with such substances would of course lead to different values for Young 's modulus , according as the observations were made in rapid snccession or slowly .
The behaviour of zinc in this respect was so marked , that a seParate set of observations were made with that materia ] , the resuIts of which are shown in diagrams and ( 11 ) , pp. 394-395 .
It will be seen on examining these diagrams that , starting with a freshly annealed piece of rolled zinc ( and similar results were obtained from'a beam cut from a large crystal of cast zinc ) , that , on the first application of the force , the bending immediately produced continues to increase for many minutes , and that , when the load is removed , the beam does not recover itself au at once , and also that a Permanent set has taken place .
On the second application of the force , however , if the force is not greater than that first applied , the behaviour of the zinc is quite dffierent .
It now very rapidly assumes its maximum deflection and Mr. A. Mallock .
Some Measures of drops back to its equilibl.ium position , on the removal of the force , more rapidly , but little further permanent set being produced .
On again increasing the force so as to exceed that first further gradual extcnsion , lasting a considerable time , takes and additional permanent set is found when the force is removed .
Diagram ( 11 ) shows that\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The immediate eIastic bending and the permanent set are portiorlal in amount to the force causing them .
( 2 .
) That the increment of or deflection which in time is a constant quantity .
The method , however , described in this paper is not well adapted the investigation of these phenomena , as the state of strain in beftm on which they depend varies from through to Young 's Iifodnlus Crystals , sides of the neutral axis , and one cannot be sure that the very slightly strained material of the central parts acts in the same way as that near the upper and lower boundaries .
In nearly all the substances experimented on , it was found that work was done in bending and unbending the beams , i.e. , for a given deflection the load was always less when the latter was being diminished than when it was being increased .
This effect was rally more apparent in metals than in crystals .
On reference to the Table ( p. S98 ) , it will bc se that only ten of the non-metallic substances examined at all approach steel in stiffness .
I regret that I have not hitherto been able to get a specimen of diamond of suitable form for measurement ; but I hope to be able to give Young 's modulus for this and some other crystals in a supplementary table . .
A. Mallock .
Some of from of the ) Diagrams ( 1 ) to ( 9 ) are examples of the diagrams used in the ratio The ordinate is the scale-reading on the arm ( fig. 1 ) , abscissa the corresponding -reading of the of the scale seen in the field of the telescope .
That the line through the observations does not in general the origin is due to the fact that the mirrors were not quite in a vertical direction at the beginning of the experiment ; in according to the position in which the spring holding the against the faces of the gang was placed while they were cemented to the beam , variations of rather more than a minute produced between their planes .
The abscissa reading when ordinate of course to be subtracted from in true ratio The spots indicate individual observations , and are arrows whose directions show whether the load was increased or diminished .
Young 's Modulus for C'rystals , In diagTam ( 9 ) the abscissa is plotted to a different scale , since , owing to tlre extreme brittleness of fluor spar , a displacement of only about of the division of the scale could be safely use when the thickness of the specimeu was about inch , and many beams of this substance were broken in attempting to odoce greater flexures .
this expel'iment the greatest departure of centre the beam from its unstl a position is about Diagram ( 10 ) shows some of the properties of zinc .
curves uumbered 1 to 8 are really one continuous experiment .
A light weight was allowed to act on a beam of sheet zinc , and the deflections caused by it were lloted every seconds for teu miuutes .
These deflections are shown by the first part of curve 1 .
The weight was then removed , and the recovel'y of the beaJn was observed for five minutes .
This forms the second part of curve 1 .
The experiment was then repeated with the same weight , and the results are shown in curve 2 .
Additional weight being pplied , the of procedure gave curves 3 and 4 , and in like manner by still further additions of load curves 5 , 6 and 7 , 8 were obtained .
The dimensions of the beam :\mdash ; inch For curves , 1 , 2 weight lbs. Yo'mg'sModului for rystals , Table of Values of Young Modulus .
* Cast .
The beam cut parallel to a natural crystalline metal .
The greatest value is that obtained from obsel.vations taken in sion .
Relation or ' tne faces of the beam to the crystallographic axes not specimens marked ( b ) are cut at right angles to marked .
S A very black opaque crystal from the Ural ; ) cut parallel to prism , ( b ) normal to the sides .
Parallel to diagonal of the cubic crystal .
Palallel to face of cube .
ParalleI to sides of prism .
A very close-grained oilstone .
to the principal cleavage .

