]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
Lord ) the of between Atmosphere and Half an Atmosphere of Pressure .
Phil. Trnns .
, , vol. 204 , 1905 , pp 351-372 .
Atomic Weights of Gases .
RAYDRIGn , ( Lord ) .
Phil. , 1906 , pp. Boyle 's Law of Pressttre of Gases , Experimental Ool.rectiou to .
RAYIBIGK , ( Lord ) .
Phil. ) vol 1906 , .
351-372 IX .
On the Compressibitity of Gases between One Atmosphere and Half an Atmosphere of Pressure .
LORD Received January 17 , \mdash ; Read , THE present*is the third of a series of memoirs in which are detailed observations upon the compressibility of the principal gases at pressures from one atmosphere downwards .
In the first of these the pressures dealt with were exceedingly low , ranging from millims. to millim. of , and the use of a special and extraordinarily delicate manonleter aIlowed the verification of BOYLL'S law to be pushed to about of a millimetre of mercury .
In the second memoir the products of pressure and voIuIne at constaut temperature ( that of the room ) were compared when the pressure was anged from 75 millims. to 150 mmims .
of mercury\mdash ; in the ratio of 2 : 1 .
The ratio of the products ( denoted by B ) would be uuity according to BOYLE'S Iaw ; for the more condensable gases , e.g. , nitrous oxide , it exceeds unity .
The following the final mean values:\mdash ; Nitrous.oxide .
*A Preliminary coutaiuing many of the now in dter delail in ' Roy .
rual , 1904 .
'Phil .
Trans A 196 , pp. 205-223 , 1901 ; " " cientific Papers , ' , p. 511 .
'Phil .
Trans A 198 , pp. 417-430 , 1902 .
On p. 428 , from botlom , road stead of S The number for carbonic oxide was obtied subsequently to the publication of the momoir .
it is the mean of two sets of observations , giving severally and .
Tho gas was prepared irom ferrocyanide of potassium ( see ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 62 , p. 204 , 1897 ; 'Scieutitic Papers , ' vol. 4 , p. ( 380 .
) The deviations from unity in the cases of oxygen and argon were thought to exceed the errors of observation .
The results presently to be given for oxygen render it probable that the half of the deviation was , in fact , error .
At any rate , law was sensibly obsel.ved by air , hydrogen and carbonic oxide .
The method employed in this appeared to be satisfactory , and I was desirous of ( it to higher ) ressures , still , however , below the atmospheric , as to seemed to be of mation .
I could find only some incidental observatious by on air and cal.bonic acid , and these it may be vell to quote : The vere as 2 : 1 , and the " " initial })ressure\ldquo ; the smaller .
The temperature was C. to C. ratio what I have denoted by B. It will be seen that the nulubers for air exhibit considerable discrepancies .
The in AMAGAT'S table correspond pretty closely with the observations that I proposed to undertake .
Besides the general elucidation of the behaviour of gases at reduced pressul.es , the object in view was to obtain material for comparing the densities of various gases at great rarefactions .
In the actual weighings of gases the in the containing vessel is usually atmospheric , but the ratios of densities so obtained not immediately available for iuferring molecular weights according to AVOGADRO'S rule .
rule can only be supposed to apply with rigour when the ases are so arefied as to come the range of BOYLEi'S law .
For this it is advisable that the angs of pressul.e employed should be sufficient to give , but not so high that the application to AVOGADRO'S rule involves too 'Ann .
de Chimie , ' tome xxviii .
, 1883 .
The applicatiou of this idea to oxygen and hydrogen was made in my paper " " On the Relative Densities of Oxygen and Hydrogen .
Soc. Proc vol. 50 , p. 448 , 1892 Papers , ' vol. 3 , p. 525 .
My hesitation then and later to push the investigation further , so as to obtain corrections to the relave densities observed at atmospheric pressure , aroso irom the uucertainties in which the itnomalous tions of had enveloped the behaviour of gases ut low essures .
BETWEEN ONE ATMOSPHERE AND HALF AN ATMOSPHERE OF PRESSURE .
353 much extrapolation .
The comparison of volumes at pressures atmospheric and half atmospheric seems to meet these requirements , though we must not forget that ( apart from theory ) the result is still of the nature of an extrapolation .
On this subject reference may be made to a paper by Sir W. RAMSAY and Dr. B. STEEL .
* The guiding idea in the present apparatus , as in that of 1902 , is the use of two manometric gauges combined in a special manner .
" " The object is to test whether when the volume of a gas is halved its pressure is doubled , and its attainment requires two indicating pressures which are in the ratio of 2 : 1 .
To this end we may employ a pair of independent gau ges as nearly as possible similar to one another , the similarity being tested by combination in parallel to borrow an electrical term .
When connected below with one reservoir of air and above with another reservoir , or with a vacuum , the two gauges should reach their settings simultaneously , or at least so nearly that a suitable connection can readily be applied .
For brevity we may for the present assume precise similarity .
If now the two gauges be combined in series , so that the low-pressure chamber of the first communicates with the high-pressure chamber of the second , the combination constitutes a gauge suitable for measurin a doubled pressure The ometer .
The construction of the gauges is modelled upon that used extensively in my researches upon the density of gases .
An iron measuring rod , AB , is actually applied to the two mercury surfaces , arranged so as to be vertically superposed .
This rod is of about 7 millims. diameter and is pointed below , A. At the upper end , , it divides at the level of the mercury into a sort of fork , and terminates in a point similar to that at , and , like it , directed downwards .
The coincidence of these points with their images reflected at the mercury surfaces is observed with the aid of lenses of 20 millims. focus suitably held in position .
It is , of course , independent of any irregular refractions which the walls of the tube may exercise .
In each manometer the distance between the points is 15 inches or 381 millims. The internal diameter of the tubes , constituting the upper and lower chambers of the manometers , is 22 millims. This is the diameter at the level of the " " points\ldquo ; to which the mercury surfaces are set .
At the places where the iron rod emerges above and below into the open , the glass is contracted until it becomes an approximate fit , and air-tightness is secured with the aid of cement .
ngement of With one important difference to be explained presently the general schelne is the same as in 1902 and is sketched in fig. 1 .
The left-hand manometer can be * ' On the Vapour-Densities of some Carbon Compounds ; an attempt to determine their Molecular Weights , \ldquo ; 'Phil .
Mag Oct. , 1893 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 63 , pp. 134-149 , 1893 ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 4 , p. 41 .
VOL. CCIV .
Fig. 1 .
BETWEEN ONE ATMOSPHERE AND HALF AN OF .
355 connected above , through , with the pump or with the gas supply .
The lower chamber A communicates with the upper chamber of the right-hand manometer and with an intermediate reservoir , to which , as to the manometers , mercury can be supplied from below .
The lower chamber of the right-hand manometer is connected with the principal gas reservoirs , H. It is here that the novelty enters .
In the 1902 apparatus the two equal bulbs were superposed , being connected by a narrow neck .
For the doubled volume , both bulbs were occupied by gas ; but for the single volume , only the upper one was available .
For the comparison of the single and double a principal factor of the final result , preliminary gauging had to be relied upon .
In the new apparatus it was desired largely to increase the volumes , and it was both more advantageous and more convenient to place the two bulbs side by side .
The temperature conditions are thereby improved ; but what I wish to emphasize at present is the elimination , thereby rendered possible , of dependence upon preliminary gauging , for either bulb is now available for the single volume ; and if both are symmetrically employed in each set of obseryations , the mean necessarily corresponds to half the total volume , whether or not the two single volumes are precisdy equal .
The volumes are defined , as usual , by marks , II , upon the associated tubes above and below .
The use of the side-tube JK will be explained presently .
When , as shown , the mercury stands at the lower marks I , the double volume is in use , and the pressure is such as will balance the mercury in one ( the -hand ) manometer .
A vacuum is established in the upper chamber , from which a way is open through ABF to the pump .
When the mercury is raised through one of the bulbs to the upper mark , the volume is halved and the pressure to be dealt with is doubled .
Gas sufficient to exert the single pressure ( 381 millims. ) must be supplied to the intermediate chamber , which is now isolated from the pump by the mercury standing up in the curved tube AB .
Both manometers can now be set and the doubling of the pressure verified .
The communication through to the pump is unobstructed , but on a side tube a three-way tap is provided communicating on the one hand with the gas supply and on the other with a vertical tube delivering under mercury , by means of which a wash-out of the generating vessels can be effected when it is not convenient to eyacuate them .
The six tubes of glass leading downwards from the gas reservoirs , manometers , \amp ; c. , are all well over a barometer-height in length , and are terminated by suitable indiarubber hoses and reservoirs for the supply of mercury .
By this precaution the internal pressure on the hoses is guaranteed to exceed the external atmospheric pressure , and under this condition the use of indiarubber seems to be free from serious objection .
If , however , the external pressure be allowed to be in excess , there are soon signs of the percolation of air and probably of moisture .
When settings are actually in progress , the mercury in the hoses is isolated from * These reservoirs were protected from external moisture by tubes of chloride of calcium .
that in the reservoirs by pinch-cocks , and the adjustment of the supply is effected by squeezing the hoses .
As explained in my first paper , the final adjustment must be made by squeezers which operate upon parts of the hoses which lie flat upon the large wooden tray underlying the whole .
The Side The use of this was fully explained in my former paper .
By the employment of manometric gauges we are enabled to dispense with scales and cathetometers ; but since ( save as to a small temperature correction ) the pressures are defined beforehand , the adjustment is thrown upon the volume .
The variable volume is introduced at the side tube , which , with its associated bulb , allows of the elimination from the results of the volume which cannot be directly gauged , including that over the mercury in the lower chamber of the right-hand manometer when set .
The tubes above and below the bulb were calibrated in the usual manner .
It should be remarked that the diagram shows the mercury in the side apparatus in a position suitable for a measurement at the doubled pressure , while in the rest of the apparatus the position of the mercury corresponds to the single pressure .
General Sketch of Theory .
It will be convenient to repeat this , nearly as given in the former paper .
To save complication , it will be supposed that the temperature is constant , not only throughout the whole apparatus at one time , but also at the four different times concerned .
volume of two large bulbs together between , II ( about 633 cub. centims volume between CJGG ( the ungauged space ) .
measured volume on upper part of JK from highest mark downwards .
measured volume , including bulb of side apparatus , from highest mark downwards .
smaller pressure ( height of mercury in right-hand manometer ) .
larger pressure ( sum of heights of mercury in two manometers ) .
In the first pair of operations , when the large bulbs are in use , the pressure corresponds to the volume , and the pressure corresponds to , the quantity of gas being the same .
Hence the equation , * The whole of the apparatus was made under my instructions by the late Mr. GORDON , who also took a large part in the observations .
I take this opportunity of recording my indebtedness to his faithful assistance over a long series of years .
BETWEEN ONE ATMOSPHERE AND HALF AN ATMOSPHERE OF PRESSURE .
.3.57 being a numerical quantity which would be unity according to BOYLE'S law .
In the second pair of operations with the same ?
but with a of gas , and with the.$me } , the mercury stands at GG throughout , and we have ; whence by subtraction .
From this equation has been eliminated , and is expressed by means of and the actually gauged volumes .
It is important to remark that only the differences are involved .
The first is measured on the lower part of the side apparatus , and the second on the upper part ; while the capacity of the intervening bulb does not appear : If BOYLE'S law be closely folowed , there is nothing to prevent both and from being very small .
Except the preliminary comparison of the manometers , the whole of the data required for the verification are then contained in the observations of each set .
When the temperature-changes are taken into account , are not fully eliminated , but they appear with coefficients which are very small if the temperature conditions are good .
Therrnometers .
Of these four were employed .
The first gay the temperature of the manometric columns ; the second gave the temperature ( T ) of ; the third that of the bulb of the side apparatus ( t ) .
The temperature of the water-bath , in which are contained the principal bulbs , is of coulse the most important .
The water was stirred continuously by a stream of air , and the temperature was taken by a thermometer that could be read to of a degree C. No observations were begun until it had been ascertained that the temperature of the water was slowly rising .
It is important to understand what really are the demands made upon this thermometer .
It was arranged that the mean temperature when the double volume was in use should be almost the same as for the single volumes .
The difference was usually less than of a degree and rarely exceeded or Under these circumstances the use of the thermometer was practically only to identify the same temperature on ifferent days , and the actual error of its readings and even of its scale of temperature were of but secondary importance .
Comparisons with other thermometers showed that there were no errors which could possibly become sensible .
The precautions necessary , in order that the other thermometers should do their work satisfactorily , were indicated in the former paper .
In the present work the number of intervening screens was increased .
It is desirable to emphasise that most of the errors that could arise from imperfect .358 LORD RAYLEIGH ON THE COMPRESSIBILITY OF GASES action of the thermometers is eliminated in the actual results , which depend only upon a comparison between operations with and without the large bulbs .
For example , suppose that there is an error in the rather ill-defined temperature of the space .
The conditions are the same whether the large bulbs are in use or not ; and thus whatever error occurs in the one case may be expected to repeat itself in the other .
So far as this repetition is complete , the error disappears in the comparison .
Again , it might happen that one of the large bulbs tended to be warmer than the other or than the thermometer .
But this , so far as it is constant , could lead to no error , the effect when the bulb is used alone being compensated by the effect when it forms one of the pair .
Purely accidental errors are , in any case , eliminated when the mean is taken of a number of observations .
The Large Reservoirs .
The tubes forming the principal parts are of glass , 25 centims. in length , 41 millims. in internal and about millims. thickness in the walls .
There are prolongations above and below of narrow bore , upon which are placed the marks defining the volumes .
As has been explained , the accurate comparison of these volumes is unnecessary .
As it happens , the actual volumes between the marks are so nearly equal that it is difficult to say which is the larger .
The total volume , required only to be roughly known for the sake of the subsidiary terms , is cub. centims. But there is another question to be considered .
The single bulbs are used under an internal pressure of an atmosphere .
Under the same pressure the combined volume of both bulbs would of course be exactly double the mean of those of the bulbs used separately .
But when the bulbs are in combination , the internal pressure is reduced to half an atmosphere , and the bulbs contract .
A correction is thus necessary which runs similarly through all the results calculated on the supposition that the ratio of volumes is exactly 2 : 1 .
The amount of the correction has been determined in two ways .
Direct observation of the change oflevel of water filling the bulb and standing in the small upper prolongation , when the internal pressure was changed from one atmosphere to half atmosphere , gave a total relative alteration of per half atmosphere , of which would be due to the contraction of the water .
The difference , viz. , , represents the relative contraction or expansion of the volume per half atmosphere of pressure .
A calculation founded upon the measured dimensions of the tubes , including the thickness of the walls , combined with estimates of the elasticity of the glass , gave per half atmosphere , in better agreement than could have been expected .
The real ratio of volumes with which we are concerned in these experiments is thus.not 2 exactly , but 2 ( 1\mdash ; 000021 ) .
BETWEEN ONE ATMOSPHERE AND HALF AN ATMOSPHERE OF PRESSURE .
359 The value of calculated without aUowance for this correction would be too large , so that a gas which really obeyed BOYLE'S law exactly would appear to be too condensable , like .
From a value of so calculated we are to subtract Comparison of Manometers .
This comparison is effected by combining the manometers in parallel so that the mercury at the lower levels is subject to the pressure of one continuous quantity of gas , while the mercury at the upper levels is in vacuo , or at any rate under the of the same very rare gas .
Any difference that may manifest itself may be estimated by finding what change of gas-volume is required in order to pass from the pressure appropriate to one manometer to that appropriate to the other .
The first matter requiring attention is the verticality of the measuring rods , or rather of the lines joining the points actually applied to the mercury .
The points were visually projected upon a plumb-line , hung a few centimetres away , and were observed through a hole of 2 millims. or 3 millims. diameter perforated in a black card .
If the adjustment is perfect the same position of the card allows accurate projection upon the thread of the upper and lower points ; if not , the necessary motion of the card , perpendicular to the line of sight , gives data for estimating the amount of the error .
If and be the linear horizontal deviations from true adjustment thus determined in any two perpendicular planes , the length of the rod , the angular error is , and the proportional error of height for the present purpose is When the manometers were compared , no value of or exceeded millim. , so that with millims. the error of verticality could be neglected .
In effecting the comparison of the manometers , both mercury levels must be set below ( in order to make the gas volume definite ) , while the settings above are ade alternately .
It was at once apparent , when the right-hand manometer was set , that the rod on the left was a little too long , a perceptible interval being manifest between the upper point and the mercury .
In these experiments the total gas volume was about 2845 cub. centims. , the principal part being the volume of a large bottle protected from rapid changes of temperature by a packing of sawdust .
The necessary changes were produced by causing mercury to rise and fall in a vertical tube of small bore , the position of the meniscus being noted at the moment when a setting wasjudged to be good .
The settings of the two manometers must be made alternately in order to eliminate temperature changes ; and the result of each set of observations was derived from the means of four settings of one manometer , and of five of the other .
The lowering of the mercury in the auxiliary tube required to pass from a setting of the left-hand manometer to a setting of the right-hand manometer , was found on three separate days to be 503 millims. , millims. , millims. , or , as a mean , millims. As regards the section of the auxiliary tube , it was found that a mercury thread occupying 85 millims. of it weighed grammes .
The proportional difference of volume is thus the same fraction lepresents the proportion by which the left-hand measuring rod exceeds in length its fellow on the right .
It would seem that by this procedure the lengths of the rods are compared to about a millionth part .
In the notation employed in the calculations whence It may be observed that an error in the comparison of and enters to only half its amount into the final result .
The The manipulation necessary to imprison the right quantity of gas was described in the former paper .
When this has once been secured the observations are straightforward .
On each occasion 6 readings were taken , extending over about an hour , during which time the temperature always rose , and the means were combined into what was treated as one observation .
A complete set usually included eight observations at the high pressure , in four of which one large bulb was in use , and in the second four the other bulb .
Interpolated in the middle of these were the observations ( usually six in number ) of the low pressure both large bulbs were occupied by gas .
Further , each set included eight observations relating to the side apparatus , in which the large bulbs stood charged with mercu1y .
In this way each set contained within itself complete material for the elimination of , which might possibly vary from time to time with the character of the contact between mercury and glass in the lower chamber of the right-hand manometer .
Finally the means were taken of all the corresponding observations , no further distinction being maintained between the two large bulbs .
The following table shows in the notation employed the correspondence of volumes and temperatures:\mdash ; ONE ATMOSPHERE AND HALF AN ATMOSPHERE OF ) In the first observation is the volume of the two large bulbs together and the temperature of the water-bath , reckoned from some convenient neighbouring temperature as standard .
is the ngauged volume already discussed whose temperature is given by the upper thermometer .
is the ( larger ) volume in the side apparatus whose temperature is that of the associated thermometer .
In the second observation is the ( mean ) volume of a single bulb and its temperature .
is the volume in the side apparatus whose temperature , as well as that of , is taken to be .
IIL and IV .
represent the corresponding observations when the large bulbs are not used .
The temperatures of the mercury in the manometric columns are represented by As an example of the actual quantities , the observations on hydrogen , Apri19-24 , 1903 , may be taken .
The values of and are approximate .
; The volumes are in cubic centimetres and the temperatures are in Centigrade degrees , reckoned from The Reductions .
The simple theory has already been given , but the actual reductions are rather troublesome , on account of the numerous temperature corrections .
These , however , are but small .
We have first to deal with the expansion of the mercury and of the iron in the manometers .
If the actual heights of the mercury ( at the same temperature ) be , we have for the relative pressures , where .
Thus in the notation already employed , or ; and , The quantity of gas at a given pressure occupyimg a known volume is to be found by dividing the volume by the absolute temperature .
Hence each volume is to be divided by , as the case may be , where is the reciprocal of the absolute emperature chosen as a standard for the set .
Thus in the above example for hydrogen , VOL. CCIV . .
3 Our equations expressing that the quantities of gas are the same at the single and at the doubled pressures accordingly take the form ' where is the numerical quantity to be determined\mdash ; according to BoYLE'S law identical with unity .
By subtraction and neglect in the small terms of the squares of the small temperature differences , we obtain The first three terms on the right , viz. , those in , vanish if .
If in general denote the sum of the five terms , we may write with sufficient approximation for the actual experiments It may be well to exhibit further the steps of the reduction in the case of hydrogen above detailed .
The five terms composing are Term in \ldquo ; Term in , BETWEEN ONE ATMOSPHERE AND HALF AN ATMOSPHERE OF PRESSURE .
363 Thus \mdash ; 000231 In the above calculation the volumes of the principal capacities at the two pressures have been assumed to be as 2 : 1 exactly .
As has already been explained , the value of so obtained is subject to correction of 000021 to be subtracted .
Hence a result in strictness applicable to the temperature C. The hydrogen is somewhat less compressible than according to BOYLE'S law , as was to be expected from its known behaviour at pressures above atmosphere .
The Results .
After the above explanation it will suffice to record the final results of the various sets of observations .
HyDROGEN .
30 to February 10 , 1903 Mean.\ldquo ; In the case of hydrogen the agreement of single results is remarkably good .
This gas , as well as all the others , was carefully dried with phosphoric anhydride .
CARBONIC OXIDE .
Mean.\ldquo ; The gas was prepared from ferrocyanide of potassium and sulphuric acid , purified from by a long tube of alkali .
It is barely possible that the abnormally high number which stands first in the table may be due to imperfect purification on that occasion ; on principle , however , it is retained , as no suspicion suggested itself at the time .
NITROGEN .
The " " chemical\ldquo ; nitrogen was from potassium nitrite and ammonium chloride .
That " " from air\ldquo ; was prepared by bubbling air through ammonia and passing over red-hot copper and sulphuric acid , with the usual precautions .
It contained about 1 per cent. of argon ; but this could hardly influence the observed numbers .
OXYGEN .
vember 2ecemb .
It remains to record certain results with air ( free from and ) .
It is curious that the greatest discrepancies show themselves here .
The earlier observations , at the end of 1902 , ere made before the apparatus was perfected , and gave as a mean equently , was made to air .
* See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 62 , p. 204 , 1897 'Scientitic Papers , ' vol. 4 , p. 347 .
BETWEEN ONE ATMOSPHERE AND HALF AN ATMOSPHERE OF PRESSURE .
365 AIR .
Date .
Temperature .
B. April 12 to 26 , 1904 . .
11 3 April 1 to 11 , 1904 . . . .
May 14 to 26 , 1904 Mean . . . . .
In partial explanation of the high number which stands first , it should perhaps be mentioned that the set of observations in question was incomplete .
Owing to an accident , it was impossible to return from the lower pressure to the higher pressure .
as had been intended .
It may be well to repeat here that the temperature being constant and having the values recorded in each case .
Although the accordance of results seems to surpass considerably anything attained in observations below atmosphere at the time this work was undertaken , I must confess that , except in the case of hydrogen , it is not so good as I had expected in view of the design of the apparatus and of the care with which the observations were made .
I had supposed that an error of 3 parts in 100,000 ( at the outside ) , corresponding to C. , was as much as was to be feared .
As it is , I do not believe that the discrepancies can be explained as due to errors of temperature , or of pressure , or of volume so far as the readings are concerned .
But it is possible that a variable contact between mercury and glass in the lower chamber of the first manometer may have affected the volume in an uncertain manner , though care was taken to obviate this as far as could be .
It is to be remembered , however , that , except as to the comparison of the two manometers , all sources of error enter independently in each set of observations ; and that a mere repetition of the readings without a change in the gas or in the pressure from half atmosphere atmosphere , gave very much closer agreements .
The values of here discussed are the same as those given in the Notice , except that no account was there taken of the small deviation in the ratio of volumes from 2 : 1 in consequence of the yielding to pressure .
If we measure f ) in atmospheres and assume , as has been usually done , e.g. , by REGNAULT and VAN DER WAALS , that at small pressures the equation of an isothermal is PV , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 73 , p. 153 , February , 1904 .
where is the value of the product in a state of infinite rarefaction , then or .
In applying to correct the observed densities of gases at atmospheric pressure , we are met with the consideration that is itself a function of temperature , and that the value of really required for our purpose is that corresponding to C. , at which temperature the weighing vessels are charged with gas .
' In the case of the principal gases is so small that its correction for temperature was not likely to be important for the purpose in hand , but when we come to and the situation might well be altered .
If we know the pressure-equation of the gas , there is no difficulty in calculating a correction to in terms of the critical constants .
I had , in fact , calculated such a correction for carbonic acid after VAN DER WAALS , when I became acquainted with the memoir of D. BERTHELOT , in which this and related questions are admirably discussed .
The " " reduced\ldquo ; form of VAN DER WAALS ' equation is pressure , volume and temperature being expressed in terms of the critical values .
From this we find ; and the effect of a change of temperature upon the value is readily deduced .
Indeed , if the pressure-equation and the critical values could be thoroughly trusted , there would be no need for experiments upon the value of at all .
The object of such experiments is to test a proposed pressure-equation , or to find materials for a new one ; but consistently with this we may use a form , known to represent the facts to supply a subordinate correction .
A careful discussion of the available data relating to various gases has led D. BERTHELOT to the conclusion that the facts at low pressure are not to be reconciled with VAN DE1I WAALS ' equation , either in its original form or as modified by CLAUSIUS ( i.e. , with the insertion of the absolute temperature in the denominator of the cohesive term ) .
xcept in the comparison of hydrogen and oxygen .
" " Sir les tres gaz 'Travaux et Memoires du Bureau International , ' tome I am indebted to the Director for an early copy oi this memoir , and of that of CHAPPUIS presently to be referred to .
BETWEEN ONE ATMOSPHERE AND HALF AN ATMOSPHEBE OF PRESSURE .
.367 The equation which best represents the relation of to temperature is , corresponding to the pressure-equation for low densities Also .
As an example , let us apply this formula to find for oxygen what change must be made in in order to pass from the temperature of the observations to C. If be the value of for C. , we have The factor by which the observed value of must be multiplied is thus being the same whether the pressures be reckoned in terms of the critical pressure or in atmospheres .
In the case of oxygen the factor is The observed value of is , corresponding to C. Hence at C. we should have It will be seen that the correction has a considerable relative effect ; but is so small that the calculated atomic weights are not much influeuced .
It must be admitted , however , that observations for the present purpose would be best made at C. ; to this , however , my apparatus does not lend itself The following table embodies the results thus obtained .
NitrogenHydrogenOxygenCarbonic.oxideAirCarbon dioxideNitrous o B. 00076 00052 1 000 ] 00030 Temperature .
correc .
C. The experiments on carbonic anhydride and on nitrous oxide were of later date , having been postponed until the ) paratus had been well tested on other gases .
In both these cases it was found that the readings were less constant than usual , signs being apparent of condensation upon the walls of the containing vessels , or possibly upon the cement in the manometer .
Under these circumstances it seemed desirable to avoid protracted observations and to concentrate effort upon reproducing the conditions ( especially as regards time ) as closely as possible with and without the use of the large bulbs .
In this way , for example , the question of the cement is eliminated .
Condensation upon the walls of the large bulbs themselves , if it occurs , cannot be eliminated from the results ; all that we can do is not unnecessarily to increase the opportunity for it by allowing too long a time .
It is certain that , unless by chance , these results are less accurate than for the other gases , i.e. , less accurate absolutely , but the value of is so much larger that in a sense the loss of accuracy is less important .
Two entirely independent results for nitrous oxide agreed well .
They were : Noveml ) , 26 , 1904 Mean . .
003295 .
003252 . . . .
The gas was from the same supply as had been used for density determinations .
In applying these results to correct the ratios of densities as observed at atmospheric pressure to what would correspond to infinite rarefaction , we have , taking oxygen as a standard , to introduce the factor , being tho value for oxygen .
Taking from the third column , which may be considered without much error to correspond to a temperature of C. throughout , and also from the fifth column , we have : The double of the first number in the second column , viz. , , represents , to AVOGADRO'S law , the volume of hydrogen which combines with one volume of oxygen to form water , the pressure being atmospheric and the temperatul .
G , C. SCOTT gave for C. In his later work MORLEY found , but tTWEEN OSPHERh HALF AN ATMOSPHERE OF PRESSURE .
369 this appears to correspond to C. The third column in the above table gives for this temperature .
The agreement here may be regarded as very good .
In correcting the densities directly observed at C. , in order to deduce molecular weights , we must use the third column of the above table .
* Oxygen being taken as 32 , the densities of the various gases at C. , and at atmospheric and very small pressures , as deduced from my own observations , From the researches of M. LEDUC and Professor MORLEy it is probable that the above numbers for hydrogen are a little , perhaps nearly one thousandth part , too high .
The correction to very small pressures has to be made in a different manner for hydrogen and for the other gases , in consequence of the fact that the observed ratio of densities corresponded not to C. , but to Now the observed values of for hydrogen and oxygen relate to about C. , so that if we correct to C. , we are , in fact , altering it in the wrong direction .
I have employed as the correcting factor to C. the value It may be noticed that the discrepancy between my ratio of hydrogen to oxygen and that of M. LEDUC is partially explained by the fact that my comparisons were at C. , and his at C. The uncorrected number for nitrogen ( corresponding to ) has already been given , S and contrasted with the obtained by STAS .
This question deserves the attention of chemists .
If AVAGADRO'S law be strictly true , it seems impossible that the atomic weight of nitrogen can be The atomic weight of carbon can be derived in three ways from these results .
First from CO and CO * The correctiou for temperature was neglected in the Preliminary Notice .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 53 , p. 134 , 1893 ; vol. 62 , p. 204 , 1897 .
'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 4 , pp. 39 , 352 .
Also for Nitrous Oxide , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 74 , , ] See 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 50 , p. 448 , 1892 ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 3 , p. 533 .
S RAYLEIGH and RAMSAY , 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 186 , , 1895 ; 'Scientific ' vol. 4 , p. 133 .
VOL. CCI7.\mdash ; A. Secondly from and Thirdly from and CO. This method is independent of the density and compressibility of oxygen:\mdash ; It will be seen that the number for is too high to give the best agreement .
Were we to suppose that the true number for was , instead of , we should get by the second method and by the third , in agreement with one another and with the result of the first method .
The alteration required is less than one part in 4000 , and is probably within the limits of error for the compressibility ( as reduced to and perhaps even for the density .
The truth is that the second and third methods are not very advantageous for the calculation of the atomic weight of carbon , and would perhaps be best used conversely .
Finally the molecular weight of allows of another estimate of that of 1litrogen .
whence It should be remarked that these results relative to and depend very sensibly upon the correction of from about C. to C. , and that this depends upon the discussion of M. D. BERTHELOT .
M. BERTHELOT has himself deduced molecular weights in a similar manner , founded upon LEDUC'S measures of densities .
It remains to refer to some memoirs which have appeared since the greater part of the present work was finished .
Foremost among these is that of M. CHAPPUIS , has investigated in a very thorough manner the compressibilities of hydrogen , nitrogen , and carbonic anhydride at various temperatures and at pressures in the neighbourhood of the atmospheric .
For hydrogen M. CHAPPUIS finds at C. per atmosphere , and for nitrogen .
In the case of carbonic anhydride departs sensibly from a linear function of .
M. tTHELOT gives as a more accurate expression * ' ' Nouvelles Etudes les Thermometres gaz ' Extrait du tome XIII .
des Travaux Mdmoires du Bureau International des Poids et Mesures .
' ATMOSPHER AND AN ATMOSPHFR OF .
371 founded on CHAPPUIS ' measures and applicable at C. The unit of pressure is here the atmosphere .
According to this , for we get , as compared with for , in close agreement with my value recorded above .
A comparison of CHAPPUIS ' method and apparatus with mine may not be without interest .
On his side lay a very considerable advantage in respect of the " " nocuous space\ldquo ; , inasmuch as this was reduced to as little as cub. centims. , whereas mine was ten times as great .
The advantage would be important when working at temperatures other than that of the room .
Otherwise , the influence of did not appear to prejudice my results , except in so far as might be uncertain from capillarity in the manometer ; and this cause of error would operate equally in CHAPPUIS ' apparatus .
So far as a 2 : 1 ratio suffices , my method of varying the volume seems the better , and , indeed , not to admit of improvement .
In the manometric arrangements it would seem that both methods are abundantly accurate , so far as the readings are concerned .
I am disposed , however , to favour continual verification of the vacuum by the Topler pump , and , what is more important , a method of reading which is independent of possible el.rors arising from irregular refraction at the walls of manometric tubes .
It may be remarked that , with a partial exception in the case of M. CHAPPUIS ' work relates to pressures above atmosphere .
Other papers which have appeared since my Preliminary Notice those of M. GUYE , working both alone and with the assistance of collaborators .
* Several of these relate to the atomic weight of nitrogen and insist on the discrepancy between the number resulting from density and that of STAB .
Among the methods employed is that of decomposing nitrous oxide by an incandescent iron wire and comparing the original volume with the residual nitrogen .
In my hands this method failed to give good results , in consequence , apparently , of the formation of higher oxides of nitrogen .
P.S. , March .
6.\mdash ; Some observations upon Ammonia may here be appended , The gas was evolved ( almost without warmth ) from the solution in water , and was dried by very slow passage over fragments of caustic potash .
The precautions mentioned under nitrous oxide were here followed with more minute care .
The glass surfaces were in contact with the gas for weeks , either at half atmospheric or whole atmospheric pressure , and the observations at full pressure were not commenced until pressure had prevailed for a day or more .
On the reduction of pressure to the half atmospheric , ammonia was sensibly liberated from the walls , and perhaps from the cement in the manometer .
In the observations to be compared , the same 'C .
R Apri125 , May 16 , June 13 , July 4 , October 31 , 1904 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 62 , p. 204 , 1897 ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vo ] .
4 , p. 350 .
RAYLEIGH ON THE COMPRESSIBILITY OF GASES , ETC .
terval was allowed to elapse between the reduction of pressure and the corresponding readings , whether the big bulbs were in use or not .
Any anomalies not dependent upon the walls of the big bulbs themselves are thus eliminated .
In addition to commercial ammonia , a special sample prepared by Dr. SCOTT in accordance with STAS ' directions was employed .
It will be seen that there is no certain difference between the results from the two kinds .
The departure from BOYLE'S law , in this case , is almost more than can be provided for in the side apparatus .
It became therefore necessary to allow a small difference of temperature between the high-and low-pressure observations such as would somewhat prejudice the accuracy of the results , were it possible to expect the attainment of the same high degree of accuracy as for the less condensable gases .
Under the actual circumstances the variation of temperature was of no importance .
AMMONIA .

