2 .
" On the relation of Cardioids to Ellipses .
" By Joseph Joping , Esq. Communicated by S. H. Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S. Received Oct. 29 , 1852 .
The object of this communication is to point out the relation of cardioids to ellipses , and that the former as well as the latter are related to and deducible from the cone .
The author remarks that the motions of the common trammel show most beautifully the mechanical relation of ellipses and cardioids , and that they are thus reciprocals of each other ; that an ellipse , as is well known , is a plane section , or a projection of a planesection of a cone upon any other plane , the limits being the circle and the right line ; and a cardioid is also a projection from a cone ; the'difFerence being that the cardioid is obtained from a curved section , formed by the intersection of a sphere or other curved solid with a cone .
After referring to properties of the sections of cones by spheres , depending on the magnitude of the vertical angles of the cone , the author states that these and many other new curves , their relations , and new properties of thecone and the sphere are made most clearly manifest , and numerous practical results are very readily obtained by the application of a doubl , e scaleS of ; nes tote-r is he ot eonedistributed equally on the plan -correspondingly on the elevation , and on the developed surface , or on any other prjctn of the cone .
He considers 'tht it is of ; great importance that some method should be devised to give appropriate names to these new curves , especially those .
so evidently and intimately related to old ones .
Thus the curved intersection of a cone and a sphere , from which the cardioid is projected on the base , ; and which has then , the cusp:turned symmetrically inwards , by another projection on a vertical plane gives a symmetrical line with the cusp turned outwards , having other distinct points of change in the curvature.:As ellipses arerelated to ; cardioids , so it is statedare hyperbolas in a similar way related to conchoids ; conchoids to their mechanical reciprocals ; and parabolas to cissoids ; amongst the vast number of cuirves , any of which can conveniently bbe derived by scales practically from the cone .
By-this method it is considered that not only projections of curved sections of cones , spheres , &amp;c. are obtained with ease , but also by means of scales , ruled papers , hollow cones and diagrams , the pl* an sections of cones , and all projections from them aregreatly facilitated .
In conclusion the author remarks , tt if a'this subject can be entertained by the Royal Society , he will make copies of a series of diagrams to illustrate what he has here stated inreference to scales applied to cones to obtain cardioids , &amp; cc .

