Fig. 3 .
F B C D E A Letter from William Molyneux Esq ; Sec. of the Dublin Society ; to one of the S. of the R. S. concerning a new Hygroscope , invented by Him .
Dublin April , 17 .
1685 .
Sir , FOR want of some thing better to send you , I shall briefly declare to you the contrivance of a Hygroscope , which I have lately invented and put in execution with good success .
I do not know that any one has mentioned , or so much as hinted at the like , and therefore to me it is altogether New ; but if any one has been before-hand with me , I shall not in the least contend for the Glory of it .
Fig. 2 .
AB .
is a Whipcord about four foot long , tied fast to the end of the Hook A. At the end of this Whipcord there hangs the Weight C. about a pound or something more ; this weight is so fitted at the end as to receive and carry the Index D. under these there is placed a Graduated Circle on the Board OF .
Fixed by a Bragget against the Wall .
All things being thus adapted , the moisture of the Air twists the Rope and gives a motion to the Index over the divisions in the Graduated Circle ; and again as the Air grows more dry , the Cord untwists and brings back the Index by a contrary motion .
That which first gave me the Hint of this , was the observing all Ropes tied at both ends to be much more tite &amp; stretched harder after Rain has fallen on them then before ; I concluded that if I could ( as it were , ) tie a Rope at both ends and yet give one end a liberty of Circumvoluion ; it would perform my desired end ; now the Weight C hung at the Rope does this , for it fixes ( as it were , ) the end of the Rope B , and yet it permits it to twist and untwist .
And the reason of this twisting and untwisting is plain ; for the little particles of moisture insinuating and soaking into the Cord are like so many Wedges , which must needs shorten the Rope , as a Bladder is shortned by being blown up , and will lift a great weight ( as Dr. Wallis discourses at large in his Mechanicks , ) but the easiest way for the Rope AB .
to shorten and lift up the weight C. is to do it by way of screw ; for it self is a screw , the strands thereof being twisted ( and each particular thread in it , ) screw-wise , and consequently must give a circular motion to the Index .
To make an experiment of this , I wetted a Cord and hung it up with the Weight at the end of it , and I perceived as it dried it untwisted , and that too very quick , so as to be perceived by the Ey ; after the Cord had so far untwisted , as I thought it had come to that degree of dryness , that the present Constitution of the Air would permit , I took a bason of warm water that sent out a Steam and Fume , and placed it under the Cord ; immediately the Cord began again to twist very quick , and so continued till the Water ceased Fuming , or was removed , and then immediately it began to return its twists .
I then tried to breath upon it gently with my breath , and found according to my expectation , that 8 or 10 breathings would twist it 5 degrees of a Circle .
I then permitted it to the Air only , and for these last three weeks have observed its motion as affected by the Moisture and Drought thereof , and I find it to obey the alterations thereof most nicely ; there falls not the least shower , at which it dos not presently twist ; and when by rising Clouds a fair day becomes overshadowed , the Cord is immediately sensible thereof , and again as sensible of their Vanishing and alteration to fair Sun-shine .
So that I have seen it show alteration , when not the least could be collected from the sweating of Stones , cracking of Wainscote , &amp;c. So that indeed I repute it to be the nicest Hygrometer , that has ever yet been used , and I am sure is as cheap and plain as any .
One of the grand defects of most ( indeed I think of all , ) Hygrometers hitherto invented is , that they grow weak with age , and do not so nicely obey the alterations of the Air , when long kept , as when first made ; Planks and Boards grow more seasoned , and I believe Oat-Beards will perish with time ; but whether our present Invention be subject to the same fault , I leave to time to determine ; in the mean while , give me leave to propose a reason which induces me to conjecture probably it will not have this defect ; for our Cord performs its motion as it is a pliable soft screw , and that not only in its grosser part or strands , but even in its smallest threads ; as long as ever this contexture screw-wise dos last ( and this certainly must last whilst it is a Rope , ) the motion that results therefrom must necessarily last , for the particles of moisture will insinuate themselves , and twist up the screw .
But this I offer only as a conjecture , for I love to conclude nothing in natural Philosophy , till matter of fact and experiment confirm it .
There remains one thing to be observed of this Hygroscope ( or Weatherclock ; as an easier name to satisfy Ladies , that enquire what it is , as it hangs up in a Room , ) that which I have described I have in my Closet , and I observe that the alterations of the Air that have happened in this time have given it more then one turn ; now this being inconvenient , and the Duplication of the turn hard to be registred , as Mr , Hook proposes in his Micrography page .
150 .
concerning the beard of a wildOat ; I have thought of a way for remedying this , for it being in our power to increase the Diameter of our graduated Circle as large as we please , what need have we of more then one turn from the greatest degree of moisture ture to the greatest degree of Drought ?
Now suppose I find the Hygroscope represented in the Figure to have two complete Revolutions ( this is to be found by observation throughout a whole year , ) I say then the way of rectifying it is thus .
In Fig..2 the Index D. has two Complete turns ; the point A. as being fixed has no turn or motion , therefore the middle point G. has but one turn , and consequently if I hang it up at the point G. or no longer then G D. half the former length , the Index D. will have but one turn .
What is here said of two turns and the middle point G. may be accommodated to any other number of turns and parts , and points in the Rope , Lastly , Sir , we may in this experiment perceive some thing that may help us in the consideration of the strength and motion of the Muscles of Animals ; for take a Cord able to sustain an Hundred pound weight , by the weak Fume or Steam of warm water this weight shall be lifted up ; for if this Steam turn the weight ( as most certainly it will do , if the Rope be of any moderate length , ) the weight is as certainly lifted up thereby as by a screw , as is evident to any one that considers it .
If therefore such mighty performances can be produced by the application of such mean agents , as we all know and are conversant with , what shall we think is too great for those parts which God has contrived and framed in the Bodies of Animals ?
I am Your most Humble servant WILLIAM MOLYNEUX .
P. S. I forgot to mention one particular , that is , apply a Candle or Heated Iron nigh the Rope and it makes it twist very quick , contrary to Mr. Hooks Oatbeard .
Hh3 Some

