I. " On the Intimate Structure , and theDistribution of the Bloodvessels , of the Human Lung .
" By A. T. H. WATERS , Esq. , Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology , Liverpool .
Communicated by Dr. SHAILPEY , Sec. R.S. Received April 7 , 1859 .
Having been recently engaged in investigating the aniatomy of the human lung , I beg to lay before the Royal Society some of the results of my observations with respect to the arrangement of the ultimate air-tubes and the distribution of the blood-vessels of the organ .
The bronchial-tubes of the lungs , after several divisions and subdivisions , which for the most part are of a dichotomous nature , terminate in a dilatation , into which open a number of elongated cavities , which constitute the ultimate expressions of the air-tubes .
These elongated cavities , to which various names have been given , I propose to call air-sacs , as being , in my opinion , more appropriate to their sbape and arrangement than any term hiitherto used ; and the series of air-sacs connected with the extremity of each bronchial twig , with its system of blood-vessels , &amp;c. , I shall call a lobulette .
Every lobule of a lung is composed of a number of lobulettes , and thus the description of a single lobulette will suffice for that of the entire lobule .
Each lobulette consists of a collection of air-sacs , which vary in number from six to eight , ten or twelve .
The air-sacs are somewhat elongated cavities , communicating with the dilated extremity of a bronchial tube by a circular opeiling , which is usually smaller than the sac itself , and has sometimes the appearanice of a circular hole in a diaphragm , or as if it had been punched out of a membrane which had been stretched across the entrance to the sac .
Wheni this is the case , the sac dilates suddenly beyond the opening , The sacs of the lobulette are placed side by side , and are separated from each other by thin membranous walls .
Their shape , when properly inflated , or when distended by some material which has set in them , as gelatine , or a mixture of wax and turpentine , is polygonal .
They approach the circular form , but in consequence of their m-utual pressure , the parietes become somewhat flattened .
The sacs iicerease slightly in size as they pass from the bronchial tube to their fundtus , the latter being usually the broadest part of the sacs ; but they often have an almost uniform diameter throughout .
All the sacs pass from the extremity of the bronchial tube towards the circumference of the lobule of which the lobulette forms a part ; they consequently radiate from the tip of the bronchial twig .
The sacs connected with one lobulette do not communicate with those of another lobulette .
As the sacs pass towards the boundary of the lobulette , they oftenl bifurcate ; and here and there circular orifices exist , leading to smaller air-sacs , sometimes only to a small group of " ' air-cells , " or alveoli .
If we trace the air-sacs from their fundus , we may say that , passing from the periphery of the lobulette , and diminishing somewhat in size , they all terminate in the dilated extremity of the bron chial tube ; as they thus proceed they often join two or three together , and these termirnate in a single mouth , The tube which results from the union of two or more sacs , is smaller in capacity than the sacs taken together , but greater than either of them irldividually .
The dilated extremity of the bronchial tube above alluded to constitutes the " point de reunion " of all the air-sacs , and may be conisidered as the common centre of the lobulette .
The walls of which the air-sacs are composed are exceedingly thin , and much sacculated , i. e. they have in them a number of small , shallow , cup-like depressions , separated from each other by portions of membrane which are more or less raised and project into the nterior of the sac .
The bottom of the air-sac presents the same appearanice as the lateral walls ; and the cup-like depressions , or alveoli , are there very numerous .
The number of these alveoli varies very much ; iI have counted as many as teln at the fundus of an airsac in a cat 's lung ; in the humnan lung I have counited five and six , but the numiber is not usual .y quiite so great .
Close to the bottom VTL .
Xs i in some of the air-sacs in the human lnIiig , a circular opening , similar to those already alluded to as leading to other sacs , snmall and constricted , is often seen , and has the appeaianice as if it led to another sac ; on examination , however , it will be fotund to be produced by a projection inwards of the membrane of the sac , and to lead to a small cavity , or group of alveoli .
The number of alveoli existing in the air-sacs varies-iRossignol states that each " I infundibulum " ( air-sac ) contains from ten to tlwenty alveoli .
My own observations entirely accord with this statement .
I have found the number varving from eight to twenty .
The air-sacs externally , by their fundus , rest on the pleura , but within the substance of the lung they in part rest on , and are supported by , the bronchial tubes and blood-vessels .
The air-sacs are separated from each other by thin walls , the membrane composing which , in a lung inflated and dried , is very transparent .
The projection of this membrane in the shape of a thin process , having a sharp margin , constitutes the septa between the alveoli ; and wherever an opening exists leading into a smaller sac , this membrane projects in a similar way , and forms a circular orifice which is much smaller than the cavity to which it leads:the sac , in fact , dilates abruptly on the distal side of the opening .
It is in the membrane composing these walls , and in the septa of the alveoli , that the capillaries of the pulmonary artery are spread out .
The number of air-sacs belonging to a lobulette varies : I have counted as many as six communicatinrg with a bronchial tube incised horizontally , so that probably only half the sacs were left ; this , however , is a larger number than is usually founid ; from six to eight or ten is the more common number .
Each lobulette is separated from those by which it is surrounded , by walls which appear to resemble in every way the walls of the airsacs ; and in an adult inflated and dried lung , careful observation is necessary to make out the partitions .
That perfect septa do exist , is proved by laying open , in a recent lung , a bronchial tube to its ultimate division , when by placing a fine blowpipe in it , and blowing down it , a single lobulette is alone inflated .
The separation o6f the lobulettes is further distinctly perceptible in the recent lunigs of inifants , in which the lirne of demarcationi between the lobulettes is often plaililv seem , on the surface .
The observatioui of the foetal lunig , however , a ords most satig*factory eviden.ce of the separation of the lobulettes , and tends to confirm the views here taken of the arrangement of the ultimate airtubes .
The recent lutng of a full-grown fetus presents on its surface no appearance of air-sacs , or vesicles , or cells ; but if it be inflated , it will present different appearances , according as the inflation has been partial or entire .
In a portion of lung only partially inflated , a number of tubes will be seen terminating beneath the pleura in csacal extremities , their light colour contrasting strongly with the surrounding dark-coloured tissue .
The exact arrangement of these tubes may be sometimes seen .
They will be found to exist in groups or clusters , and are seen to pass from the ceecal ends to a point , in which they terminate , and where they all appear to join ; or , to describe them in the inverse directioni , they pass from a point at some distance from the surface , and radiate towards the pleura .
The tubes are seen to have numerous constrictions and bulgings ; they terminate in extremities rounded , or nearly so .
In a preparation of this kind it is often easy to see the bronchial tube for a short distance before it terminates ; and not only is the terminal grouip of airsacs ( lobulette ) visible , but two or more of the previous ones arising laterally from the bronchial tube may be also seen .
The uninflated lung-substance lying between the distended air-sacs is distinctly seen when there has been only slight inflation ; and the isolated condition of each group of sacs is very apparent ; the sacs passing from different points are seen radiating in different directions .
In a lung which has been fully inflated , the grouped appearance is lost , and the ordinary condition of the distended lung is observed .
If , in a foital lung , we follow out a bronchial tube , we find that the smaller branches of the tube have connected with them clusters of little pyriform red-colotured bodies , which look very much like a number of grapes attached to their stalks .
In a foetus of six months I have found it somewhat difficult to separate eaca individual body , btLt in a fill-grown fietus there is no difficulty in doing so ; each little body is attached to a short pedicle .
If air be blown dowln a bronchial tube leading to the exposed bodies , the latter become distended .
The little bodies just described are the ready-formed groups of air -sacs , or lobnilettes ; the pediele with which each is connected is the terminal bronchial twig .
The lobulette thus formed is surrounded by its sheath , and no communication exists between it and adjoining ones .
That the appearances I have described in the artificially inflated foetal lurng are not the result of any abnormal distension , I have been able to prove by observing the same appearances in the lung of a child in which only partial respiration had taken place .
Do the air-sacs communicate with each other by any orifices except that by which they communicate with the bronchial tube ?
Different opinions have been expressed on this point .
Adriani states that he has observed such orifices , and specially mentionis that they are most clearly to be seen in the stag .
Dr. Thomas Williams considers that the " intercellular passages " intercommunicate , and are perforated by secondary passages at every point .
Rossignol , Schultz , Mandl , and Milne-Edwards , deny the existence of such communications .
From observations , made with much care and frequently repeated , I have satisfied myself that the opinion expressed by the latter authors is correct .
I have never found , either in the lung of man or in that of the dog , cat , pig , sheep , or any other mammal I have examined , any lateral orifices of communication between the sacs of a lobulette .
Alveoli of the Bronchial Tubes.-The termination of the bronchial tubes has a special character , first pointed out by Rossignol .
He says , " In the bronchial divisions of the two last , and sometimes three last orders , it is plainly seen , when they are opened longitudinally , that their surface is covered over , or , as it were , honeycombed with a number of small , regular , shallow cavities , placed side by side , and separated by thin perfect walls of the same height , which project into the interior of the bronchial tube .
" The existence of these bronchial alveoli has been noticed by subsequent observers ; they may be easily seen in a lung inijected and inflated , and sometimes even in one which has been simply soaked in spirit for a few days ; they resemble the alveoli of the air-sacs ; they are best seen in the lungs of some of the lower animals , as the cat , in which they are found in the ultimate bronchial tubes and their dilated extremities .
In man I have never seen them , except at the extremity of the tubes ; and in many lungs I have found no appearance of them at all they appear to become obliterated with advancing age .
In the infant I have found them in the last divisions of the bronchial tubes , and their dilated extremities , but not in the penultimate or earlier branches ; and even in the last divisions they are not always present previous to the dilatation .
In respect of the extent , therefore , to which these alveoli exist in the humani lung , my observations do not quite accord with those of Rossignol .
The Blood-vessels of the Lungs.-The branches of the pulmonary artery accompany the bronchial tubes , arrived at the extremity of which , they give off branches to the bronchial alveoli , and terminate in vessels which take their course in the walls of the air-sacs in no very definite or regular manner .
From these vessels the pulmonary plexus arises .
The pulmonary veins , receiving the blood from the plexus of the air-sacs , pass from the periphery of the lobulettes , and running in the spaces between the lobules , make their way , independently , to the root of the lung .
The pulmnonary plexus is situated in the walls which separate the air-sacs , in the septa of the alveoli , and around the margins of the openings which exist in the sacs .
The plexus consists of a single layer of vessels , which , as already pointed out by Mr. Rainey , is in no inistance doubled on itself .
In the septa of the alveoli , and in the margins of the orifices alluded to , the plexus does not reach quite to the free border of the mnembrane composing them .
There is no distinct and separate vessel for each alveolus , but the branches of the terminal artery take their course along the walls of the air-sacs , and give off branches which for the most part run in the septa of the alveoli ; some of them , however , pass across the alveoli .
From these vessels , and from the branches first mentioned , the capillary plexus arises .
The plexus , when formed , maintains a tolerably uniform size throughout .
In a well-injected preparationi , inflated and dried , it will be seen that the spaces between the vessels are somewhat greater in diameter than the vessels themselves .
The branches of the pulmonary artery do not anastomose till they reach the termilnation of the bronchial tubes ; on the air-sacs they anastomose freely .
It is somewhat difficult to decide whether the vessels of one lobulette anastomose with those of another .
On looking at a preparation injected and dried , it seems as though the septum , separating one lobulette from another , resemnbled in every respect the walls of the air-sacs but as the lobulettes are originally separate and independent bodies , as seen in the fmtal lung , it is probable that the vessels of each are distinct .
If so , there must be , where the walls of two lobulettes are in contact , two layers of capillaries lying side by side ; and from the mode of formation of the lobulettes , and from the fact that I have been able , in some preparations of the adult lung , partially to separate the lobulettes from one another , I believe that their vessels are distinct , that they terminate in their proper radicle-vein , and that thus the capillaries on the outer wall of the lobulette are only exposed on one side to the atmosphere .
The Bronchial Vessels.-It has long been held that the bronchial arteries are distributed to the air-tubes , the areolar tissue , and the vessels of the lungs , and that they pour their contents partly into the pulmonary veins , and partly into certain deep bronchial veins , which have been described by most anatomists as accompanying the arteries within the lungs .
An opinion has also been entertained that a communication exists between the bronchial vessels and the branches of the pulmonary arteries .
Without referring to the experiments and results of other observers , I proceed to state my own .
My observations have been made on the lungs of the cat , the dog , the rabbit , the pig , the calf , and the sheep , as well as on those of man .
The following remarks have special reference to the results obtained in the human lung .
When the pulmonary artery is injected so that the fluid reaches the pulmonary plexus but does not pass to any extent into the pulmonary veins , the blood-vessels of the bronchial mucous membrane and of the other portions of the bronchial tubes never become injected .
When , however , the injection is continued so as to fill the pulmonary veins , the vessels of the bronchial tuibes become partially injected .
When the pulmonary veins are injected , whether the pulmonary plexus be well-filled or not , the vessels of the bronchial tubes and of the bronchial mucous membrane are always injected .
The bronchial tubes are often seen to be injected when the pulmonary plexus is only very partially so , the fluid seeming to find its way from the puilmonary veins into the vessels of the bronchial tubes more readily than into the capillaries of the air-sacs .
When a bronchial artery , as it enters the substance of the lung , is injected , the vessels of the bronchial tubes become filled-both those of the mucous membrane and of the deeper portions-and the fluid finds its way into the pulmonary veins .
If the injection be continued , it is easy to inject the pulmonary plexus through the medium of the bronchial arteries ; and injection is often found in the branches of the pulmonary arteries .
In injecting a bronchial artery in the human subject , I have always found that part of the bronchial tubes nearest the point of insertion of the injection pipe more fully injected , both as regards the mucotus membrane and the deeper structures , than the parts situated towards the extremity of the tubes .
I have found the larger branches injected nearly to the end of the tubes , but not the fine vessels of the mucous membrane .
This seems to me to be due to the fact , that throughout the entire extent of the tubes there is so free a communication between the bronchial vessels and the pulmonary veins , that the fluid finds its way into the latter more readily than into the fine plexus of the extreme tubes .
The Bronchial Veins.-The examination of a large number of specimens , both of the lungs of man and the lower animals , and the inijection of the vena azygos on several occasions , have not enabled me to find the so-called deep bronchial veins , as vence comites of the bronchial arteries .
I have always found a small vein or veins , generally a single one , situated at the posterior aspect of the bronchus , and terminating , as shown by the injection , in the structures of bronchus , lower part of trachea , and glands at the root of the lung , but not passing along the bronchial tubes within the lung , and therefore being in no way concerned in returning the blood distributed to those parts by the bronchial arteries .
A piece of human lung well injected by the bronchial artery , exhibits on the mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes , a fine plexus of vessels , taking for the most part a longitudinal direction ; under these other vessels are found , which run transverselv beneath the elastic tissue , in the direction of the muscular Ehres ; these deeper vessels are larger than the superficial ones ; there is a distinct communication between the two sets .
I niow pass to consicler in what manner , and where , the comunuri cation which undoubtedly exists between the pulmonary and bronchial vessels , takes place .
If the statement I have made with reference to the bronchial veins be true , those vessels do not return the blood supplied by the bronchial arteries , except so far as the latter vessels distribute it to the bronchi themselves and the structures about the root of the lung ; and the next point we have to examine is whether any communication exist between the bronchial arteries and the pulmonary arteries .
In all the best injections I have made , whether in man or the lower animals , in which the injection was introduced by the pulmonary artery , I have never found thevessels of the bronchial tubes injected unless the pulnonary veins were well-filled , and in such specimens I have seen vessels passing from the bronchial tubes , and joining a branch of a pulmonary vein .
I have found branches of the pulmonary artery containing injection , when the latter has been introduced through the bronchial artery ; but in such specimens I have found portions of the pulmonary plexus injected , and I believe the injection has found its way through the plexus into the pulmonary arteries .
I have never seen the vessels described by some anatomists as passing from the pulmonary artery to the bronchial tnbes .
With regard to the communication of the bronchial vessels with the pulmonary veins , it admits of ocular proof .
It is unquestionably more easy to inject the vessels of the finer bronchial tubes through the pulmonary veins , than through the bronchial arteries at the root of the lung ; it is also possible to inject those vessels to a certain extent through the pulmolnary veins , without injecting the pulmonary plexus .
On the other hand , the injection thrown in through the bronchial arteries rapidly and readily finds its way into the pulmonary veins .
These facts seem to prove that the blood distributed by the bronchial arteries withini the lung is poured into the pulmonary veins , and that the whole vascular system of the bronchial tubes communicates with the same veins .
It has been stated by Mr. Rainey , that the vessels of the bronchial tubes anastomose at the extremity of the tubes with the vessels of the " air-cells " ( air-sacs ) .
In this I cannot concur , for I have never been able to fill these extreme vessels by inijection through the pul moniary artery .
My belief is , that at the termitnation of the tubes , as elsewhere , the blood of the bronchial arteries is poured into the pulmonarv velns .
Dr. Ileale has advanced the opinion that the bronchial arteries do not supply the bronchial mucous membrane at all , and that they neither communicate with the pulmonary arteries nor veins .
My observations have given results entirely opposed to this view .
With reference to the view taken by Adriani , and subsequently adopted by Dr. Thomas Williams , that the vessels of the bronchial mucous membrane terminate in the pulmonary veins , and those of the deeper plexus in the bronchial veins , it is not borine out by the experiments I have made , which appear to prove that not only do the same vessels supply the superficial and deep plexuses of the tubes , but that both plexuses discharge their contents into the same receptacles .

