On the Mode of breeding of the Ovo-viviparous Shark , and on the Aeration of the foetal Blood in diJferent Classes of Animals .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 7 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 205 .
] With a view to understanding more fully the structure of the Squalus maximus , of which Mr. Home has lately published an account , he has examined with attention that of the Squalus acanthius , which appears to resemble it closely in its internal structure , and has the advantage of being very easily obtained upon the Sussex coast , where it is very common .
After describing minutely the external organs of generation in both male and female , the author traces the progress of the ovaria from the time that the yolks are no larger than peas , till they become as large as walnuts , when they pass into the oviduct .
T'he number of yolks differs in different fish ; and even in the same fish Mr. H. has seen five yolks in one ovarium and only two in the other .
The oviducts then enlarge , and become exceedingly extended , and divided by contraction of its coats into three cavities , the last of which is ten inches in length , and is that in which the eggs are retained till the young fishes are formed , and capable of taking care of themselves ' The eggs , however , are not loose as in the oviducts of birds , but are grouped together to the number of three , four , or five , in membranous bags , containing a transparent jelly , in which the young fish swims about after it is formed , with the yolk attached to its belly by a long chord , consisting of blood-vessels .
If the bag be torn and the fish taken out and put into water with its yolk attached to it , it swims about ; but if the vessels of the chord are wounded , it dies immediately .
The author is of opinion that many of the shark tribe have this mode of hatching ; but with respect to the large shark between the tropics , the fact has been already observed by Dr. Patrick Russell , who in oneinstance found twenty-one youngones in the right oviduct , and twenty in the left .
The gelatinous liquor surrounding the ova being found to differ in its properties from their animal jellies , excepting that with which the ova of frogs are surrounded , Mr. H. procured some frogs that he might watch the formation of their jelly , and examine its properties .
No change was observed to take place in their ovaria through the winter , but on the 10th of February when a portion of oviduct was immersed in water at 800 , it swelled to double its size , and even larger when the water was warmer .
On the 25th of February a portion of oviduct , only two or three inches long , being put into water at 1200 , swelled to such a mass of transparent jelly as filled a half pint tumbler .
This substance resembled what is occasionally found on the ground , and on the branches of trees , and is called star-shot jelly ; which by Pennant has been supposed to be brought into that state in the stomachs of herons and of other birds that feed on frogs , and then rejected by vomiting .
Mr. Brand was consequently requested to make a comparative examination of the jelly from the shark , of the jelly obtained from the oviducts of frogs , and of star-shot jelly , procured from Lincolnshire ; and he found them to agree perfectly in their properties .
When dried they become brittle , but when put into water , they expand again to their original bulk , even although the heat of boiling water has been applied for drying them .
Water does not appear to dissolve any portion of them even by boiling ; they dissolve , however , by acids or by alkalies .
As none of the solutions are precipitated by tannin , the substance distinctly differs from gelatin ; and as it is not coagulated by heat , by acids , by alcohol , or by electricity , it differs equally from albumen , and must be considered as of a peculiar nature not yet described .
The subsequent part of Mr. Home 's communication relates to the provisions for supplying the foetus of different animals with air .
The ova of many fish are laid as near the sources of rivers as they can be , for the sake of the greater proportion of air contained in the water .
Others are attached to plants which assist in supplying them with oxygen .
The ova of sharks and of skates , which have their coats too strong to be penetrated by sea-water , have apertures at each end for its admission and escape .
In the ovo-viviparous sharks , which are the subjects of the present communication , the ova being contained till hatched in the body of the fish , have no hard covering , and are surrounded by sea-water , which has admission into the oviduct , by an aperture for that purpose .
In the kanguroo , and others of the opossum tribe in New South Wales , there is a communication between the uterus and vagina , which answers the same purpose of aerating the feetal blood , which is necessary in these animals ; because the young is not , as in others , connected with the uterus by a navel-string , but is detached as a sort of soft egg , and consequently cannot receive the influence of the arterial blood of the mother through the coats of any contiguous vessels .

