Some Account of the Dugong .
By Siir Thomas Stamford Raffles , Governor of Sumatra .
Communicated in a Letter to Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read May 18,1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 174 .
] The form of the Dugong resembles that of the common Cetacea .
The skin is smooth and thick , with a few scattered hairs , and the head small in proportion , with two short tusks projecting from the extremity of the upper jaw .
The place of the incisors is substituted by the rough bristly surfaces of the palate and jaws , which enable the animal to browse upon marine vegetables .
There are twelve cylindrical molares , with flat crowns .
The aperture of the ears is remarkably small .
There are no dorsal or ventral fins ; but the place of the anterior extremities is supplied by fins , which , however , are not capable of supporting the animal when out of water .
Upon dissection , the skin was found three quarters of an inch thick .
The stomach has two appendages opening into it , near the junction of the duodenum ; the intestinal canal is long ; the liver has two large and two smaller lobes , one of which is tongue-shaped and covers the gall-bladder ; the kidneys are large , and the urinary bladder probably capable of considerable distention ; the testicles are placed a little below the kidneys ; the urethra opens in a small tubercle between the two lobes of the glans penis .
In the thorax the thymus gland is large , black , and friable ; the lungs not lobulated ; and the ventricles of the heart , being separated at their points , give it a double appearance .
In regard to the skeleton , the head is remarkable for the manner in which the anterior part of the upper jaw bends downwards , the lower jaw being proportionally truncated .
There are fifty-two vertebrae , eighteen ribs on each side , and the sternum is bifurcate at the apex , and articulated to the cartilages of the upper ribs .
There is no pelvis nor posterior extremities , but opposite the eighthl or tentli lumbar vertebroe are two narrow flat bones , lodged in the flesh , one on each side .
The scapula is thick , and the humerus , radius , and ulna , short and strong .
The flesh of this animal is delicate and juicy , resembling young beef .
It is only found in shallows and inlets of the sea , and the greatest number is said to be taken during the northerly monsoon , near the mouth of the Johore river , in the inlet of the sea between Singapore island and the main ; they seldom exceed eight or nine feet in length , though they probably grow much larger , but are then too strong to be caught .

