A paper was read , entitled , " Researches on the Tides .
Seventh Series .
On the Diurnal Inequality of the Height of the Tide , especially at Plymouth and at Sincapore : and on the Mean Level of the Sea .
" By the Rev. W. Whewell , A.M. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
The diurnal inequality which the author investigates in the present paper , is that by which the height of the morning tide differs from that of the evening of the same day ?
a difference which is often very considerable , and of great importance in practical navigation , naval offi ?
cers having frequently found that the preservation or destruction of a ship depended on a correct knowledge of the amount of this varia ?
tion .
In the first section of the paper he treats of the diurnal in ?
quality in the height of the tides at Plymouth , at which port good tide observations are regularly made at the Dock Yard ? .
and these observations clearly indicate the existence of this inequality .
As all the other inequalities of the tides have been found to follow the laws of the equilibrium theory , the author has endeavoured to trace the laws of the diurnal inequality by assuming a similar kind of correspond ?
ence with the same theory ; and the results have confirmed , in the most striking manner , the correctness of that assumption .
By taking the moon 's declination four days anterior to the day of observation , the results of computation accorded , with great accuracy , with the observed heights of the tides : that is , the period employed was the fifth lunar transit preceding each tide .
In the second section , the observations made on the tides at Sin ?
capore from August 1834 to August 1835 , are discussed .
A diurnal inequality was found to exist at that place , nearly agreeing in law and in amount with that at Plymouth ; the only difference being that , in ?
stead of four days , it was found necessary to take the lunar declination a day and a half preceding the tide ?
or , more exactly , at the interpolated , or north lunar transit , which intervened between the se ?
cond and third south transit preceding the tide .
The diurnal inequality at Sincapore is of enormous magnitude , amounting in many cases to six feet of difference between the morning and evening tides , ?
the whole rise of the mean tide being only seven feet at spring tides , and the difference between mean spring and neap tides not exceeding two feet .
In the third section , the author considers the diurnal inequalities at some other places , and the general law of its progress .
The change which the epoch , ( that is , the anterior period at which the moon 's de ?
clination corresponds to the amount and direction of the inequality , ) in particular , undergoes , is a subject of great interest .
At Liverpool , the epoch is found to be about six days and a quarter ; at Bristol , it is nearly six days ; and at Leith , it is as much as twelve days .
On the east coast of America , it appears to be zero .
On the coasts of Spain , Portugal , and France , it is successively two , and three days ; and on those of Cornwall and Devonshire , four days $ thus observing a tolerably regular augmentation as it is traced along the line of coast from the shores of the Atlantic to the Firth of Forth , but travelling more slowly than the other inequalities .
In section fourth , the author treats of certain extreme cases of diur ?
nal inequality ; particularly those which produce the phenomenon of a single tide in the twenty-four hours : such as that noticed by Capt. Fitzroy at King George 's Sound , on the south coast of New Holland j and that of Tonquin , referred by Newton to the interference of two tides arriving by different channels , but probably owing to the operation of the same law as that which gives rise to the diurnal inequality .
In section fifth , the author considers the subject of the mean height of the sea j that is , the height midway between low water and high water each day : and arrives at the result that it is very nearly con ?
stant .

