XV .
L , Analysis of the Waters of the Dead ea and the River Jordan .
By Alexander Marcet M. D. one of the Physicians to Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Smithson Tenant , Esq. F.R.S. Read June i8 , 1807 .
THE Dead Sea , or Lake Asphaltite , is situated in the southern part of Syria , near Jerusalem , and occupies an extent of about 60 or 70 miles in length , and from 1o to 2o in breadth .
This lake has been from time immemorial celebrated on account of the intense saltness of its waters , which is such as to prevent either animals or vegetables from living in it , a peculiarity from which it has derived its name .
It appears that this saline quality has existed in the earliest ages ; for independently of the frequent allusions made to it in the Scriptures , we find it described by several ancient authors , amongst others bySTRABo , * who wrote during the reign of AUGUSTUS , by TACITUS , t and by PLINY.t Amongst modern travellers , PococKE , ?
VOLNEY , II and others , have noticed and described this singular spot .
But although the most obvious peculiarities have for a long time been in some degree known , the only chemical analysis I have been able to find on record is that which was published STRABONIS Geogr.vol .
ii .
p. 10o7 .
t TACITUS , lib.v .
Hist. cap. vi .
P PLINII lib. v. cap. xv .
and xvi .
PococKE 's Travels in 1743 , ii.p .
34 .
II VeLNEY , i. 281 .
in the " Memoires de I'Academie des Sciences " for the year 1 778 by Messrs. MACQuER LArVOISIER , and SAGE .
The names Of LiAVOiSIER , and of his two distinguished associates , might appear to Trender any further iivestigation of thenature of this 'water ?
superfluous ; but whoever has perused the paper in question , must be convinced , that these gentlemen , however correct in their general statements , neither attained that degree of accuracyoff which modern analysis is susceptible , nor did they bestow on the subject that share of attention which is indispensable in minute analytical experiments .
The gentleman to whom I amn indebted for the specimen of the water of the Dead 'Sea which is the subject of this Paper , is Mr. 'GoDooN ' of Clunie , who recently travelled in that country and undertook , not without some difficulty and 'danger , 'an excursion from Jerusalem to this remarkable lake- .
There he himself filled and brought to Sir JOSEPH BANKS a phial containing about one ounce and , a half of this water , carefully corked , and in a state of perfect preservation .
The same gentleman brought also in another phial , somewhat larger , a specimen of the River Jordan , which runs into the Dead Sea , without having any outlet , so that the river might be expected to hold in solution ingredients analogous to those of the Lake itself .
These specimens Sir JosEPH put into the hands of Mr. TENANT , for examination .
But knowing that I was engaged .
in similar researches , Mr. TENANT was so obliging as to entrust me with this analysis , and to afford me frequent opportunities of availing myself of his assistance in the course of the enquiry .
Being possessed but of a small quantity of this water , a further supply of which could not easily be procured , I was .
anxious not to waste any considerable portion of the specimen by preliminary trials .
With this view , I began by making a variety of comparative experiments on artificial solutions , in order to ascertain the accuracy of different modes of operting ; and knowing by LAVOIsIER 's analysis , and also by the general effects of reagents applied to minute quantities of the water , what were the principal ingredients which I might expect to find in it , I made solutions , the contents of which I ha4 previb opusly ascertained with precision , so that by analysing these solutions in different way , I had an opportunity of judging of the degree of accuracy that could be expected from a variety of methods .
Some of these trials I shall briefly relate ; for although not strictly beloninng to the particular aalysis in question , yet I conceive that they may be of some general use , in pointing out the most eligible method to be pursuedin inquiries of this kind .
Indeed it must be confssed that the minute chemical examination of any individual substance , requires so much time and patience , that to obtain a knowledge of that substance only , would seldom appear a sufficient inducement to such a laborious undertaking , was it not always more or less connected with other useful collteral objects . ?
I. General Properties of the Dead Sea .
1 .
One of the most obvious peculiarities of the Dead Sear water , is .
its specific gravity , which I found to be 1 , .
11 , a degree of density scarcely to be met with , I believe , in any other natural wmater .
The circumstance of thias ak allowing bodies of considerable weight to float upon it s:sufae , was f noticed by some of the most ancient writers .
STRABO , amongst others , states that men could : not dive in this water , and in going into it , would not sink lower than the navel ; and PococKE , who bathed in it , relates that he coutd lie on its surface , motionless , and in any attitude , without danger of sinking .
These peculiarities , which I , at first , suspected of beingt exaggerated , are fully confirmed by Mr. GofkDbN , wh-6 atlosb bathed in the lake , and experienced all the effets just related 2 .
The water of the Dead Sea is perfectly transpareTst , ad does not deposit an crystals on standiig in elose vessels ; .
3 .
Its taste is peculiarly bitter , saline , and pungent .
4. .
Solutions of .
silver produce from it a very copioiist pici.pitate , showing the presence of iharine acid .
5 .
Oxalic acid instantly discovers lime in the wWat. .
6 .
The lime being separated , both caustic and carbonated alkalies readily throw down a magnesian precipitate. .
7 .
Solutions of barytes produce a cloud , showing the existence of sulphuric acid .
8 .
No alumine can be discoveredin the wawter by the delicate test of succinic acid combined with ammonia ' .
9 .
A small quantity of pulverised ; sea salt being afedd to a few drops of the water , cold and undiluted , the salt was readily dissolved with the assistance of gentle trituration , showing that the Dead Sea is not saturated with ' common salt .
io .
None of the coloured infusions commonly used to ascertain the prevalence of an acid or an alkali , such as litmus , vio-let , .
and turmeric , were in the least altered by the water. .
Dr M4a1 of teatoJ Prelimn eJy Exper rents to ascer tainh the Cift is coneder in thiZn s Analysis .
Having satisfied myself by these preliminary erimnts that the Dead Sea contained muriat of lime , muriat of magnesia , d , d s lenite , and having no doubt both from tte of the water , and from LAVOISIER'S statement , that it S onaiine also cqmon salt , I proceeded to the comparative per.ji t above mentioned .
; , The first indispensable step wasto ascerainwih the prportions of acid , and base , in..the.three mur.it t named .
This I had already done in the , ccourse , of ai:ore general inquiry which I began some time ago in cQnjntiQi with Mr. TENANT , and which has been of great.useQ. .
on the present occasion .
But as the particulars ofthatjseres of experiments may probably be published at somp , fute:period , I'sha !
l now confine myself to such general statements a imediately belong to my subject .
i. The composition of muriat of lime wasas , asc.tained by pouring a known measure of muriatic acid on a piece of pure narble of known weight , and more than sufficient to saturate the acid .
The remaining portion of marble being then weighed , and the solution evaporated and heated to redness , the proportions of acid and earth were easily deduced .
But in order to draw such an inference , it was necessary to ascertain with precision the quantity of pure lime in a given weight of marble , .
MAC ; i ER , L LAVOIsiE a , and SAGE , discovered the three muriats , but overlooked the small quantity of selenite .
tke Dead Sea t4z4e )e r. .
which , from a number of experiments performed with great care by Mr. TENANT and myself , appeared to be 56 , i parts of lime in:loo of marbe .
Fromi a great variety of trials , made with considerable attention , and with due allowance for any accidental circumstances , muriat of lime appeared to consist of 50,77 parts of lime , to 49f23 of muriatic acid .
2 .
To ascertain the proportions of earth and acid in muriat of magnesia , reqird a snthetic process somewat different .
To a known weight of pure magnesia perfectly calcilred , a known quantity of acid* was added , and after the whole of the magnesia was dissolved , the remaining portion of acid was saturated bmarbe .
From the loss sustained by the marble , and the known proportions of acid and magnesia used , the composition off muriat of magnesia ( supposed perfectly free from water ) was deduced , and the proportions resulting from several careful trials , were 4,99 parts of magnesia , to 56,01 of muriafic acid .
3 .
Muriat of soda was analysed by various methods .
But the only one which I shall now relate consisted in precipitating the acid by a solution of silver from a known weight of muriat of soda , and inferring the proportion of acid and alkali from the quantity of luna cornea obtained .
This however required a previous exact knowledge of the proportions of acid and silver in luna cornea .
In order to ascertain this point , a known quantity of acid was precipitated by nitrat of silver , and the weight of the luna cornea , after being melted and heated to redness , indicated 19,5 parts of acid to 80,95 of oxyd of silver .
The composition of common salt , calculated from these data , proved to be 46 parts of acid to 54 of soda . ?
III .
Comparative Analyses of artifiial Solutions .
I shall not enter into all the particulars of the various analyses of artificial solutions , resembling the water of the Dead Sea , which directed me in the choice of the method which I ultimately adopted .
But it may be proper to state , in a summary manner , the principal means which were tried , and their respective defects and advantages .
These artificial mixtures all contained the three muriats above mentioned , but in each of them the small quantity of selenite was altogether disregarded .
i. The first of these solutions was evaporated to dryness , and the residue exposed for near an hour to a red heat in a platina crucible pretty closely covered .
The object of this was to drive off the acid from the magnesia ( muriat of magnesia being decomposable by heat ) , and after separating this earth from the other salts by means of distilled water , to precipitate the lime by carbonat of ammonia , and to obtain the muriat of soda by evaporation to dryness .
But I soon found that the complete decomposition of muriat of magnesia by heat , under these circumstances , was extremely difficult , if not impossible , and accordingly the results obtained from this method indicated considerably less magnesia and proportionallymore lime , o302 than the solution really contained .
The quantity of common salt was tolerably accurate .
2 .
From another similar solution the lime was precipitated by oxalat of ammonia ; the magnesia was separated by heat in an open crucible , and the common salt was obtained , as before , by evaporation and exposure to a low red heat .
The result was satisfactory both as to the lime and magnesia ; but as the separation of the latter could only be completed by long continued heat , in an open vessel , I found the muriat of soda materially reduced by sublimation , and was therefore obliged to abandon this mode of proceeding .
3 .
From a third artificial solution , the lime was precipitated by oxalat of ammonia , the magnesia by carbonat of ammonia recently prepared , and the sea salt was obtained as usual by evaporation and desiccation in a low red heat .
The object of this mode of operating was to supersede the necessity of applying a red heat in the first instance .
But I was again disappointed ; for the magnesia was but imperfectly precipitated ; and in order to separate the last portions of this earth , it was necessary to calcine the last residue containing the muriat of soda , which gave rise to the same objections as in the former ' experiments .
4. .
The last and most successful method consisted in dividing the artificial solution into two portions .
From one of these the muriatic acid wqs precipitated by nitrat of silver , and its quantity ascertained .
From the other the lime was separated by oxalat of ammonia , and the magnesia by caustic potash ; * of and the espcativje portions of ad , betl gig t ea of thse earths being calculated , the quantity of muriat of soda was inferirfd romi the remaining quantity of iid .
This method affordedre'markab'y acUrte ts .
The only objection to it seeims to be that the muriat if soda being only estimated , and not actually obtained , if any error be made either in the estimation of the acid or in the separation of the lime and magnesia , these errors must also ultimately affect the computation of the muriat of soda , without allowing any immediate means of detecting them .
This Qbjection , however is in a great degree removed , by a comparison of the two portions of the .
solutio ; -from one of whih %t nion salt can be obtain ed undecomposedl and thi preenti mI hodA this additional advantage , that the quantity of acid is a-sot o ceck , .
which , when connected withsome other point of comparison , ; prevents any gross error in the computatidt ' ft earths , from escaping notice .
; iThis 9pan being very similar to that which I actiatlyfiBllwed in the analysis of the water of the Dead Sea , it mia be woVrth while:to mention the summary results of the &amp; onm a rati ; ve:experiments which decided 0ie inits favour .
-The artificial solution : contained : Salts .
Atid .
Muriat of lime 8,17 grains , :4g grains .
Muriat of magnesia 26,10 = i , Muriat of soda 25,00 11,5 59'27 =s 3 , * These happened to be very nearly the real proportions of salts in the Dead Sea ; yet this coincidence Was a matter of mere accident ; for when I mixed uip the ingre " dients , I was led to suppose from LAVOISIER'S paper , that their proportioni:a the Dead Sea was very different from that which I afterwards ascertained .
Adi the -ont es inrleed by the fovgoing -method i ti^ ; j^ i , i iB , Ac i &lt; Muriat of lime 8,14 , 4 , .
, grains .
fMuriat of , nag4nesia , 5,6 -= 1.,35 Muriat of soda .
- .
a5,7 11,72 5iv : Aia4ly:is 'of the Dead-Sa^ Fater pInow cx9meto the actual.examinaftion of the wateer of : the Dead a Sea , the,7 particulars of which will be found much shortened y tYhe preceding observations .
, , , i,.-0o grains of this water ( the whole supply of whh amoupted , my , t,54o grains ) were put in a glass capsuLe , a slowly evaporated in a water bath , by means ofan approprate appatu ; , th , tel , perature of the capsule being constantly kept within , 5 degrees of 180 ? .
The object of this experiment Wa si , piy Jto know the weight of the solid contents of the water , dried under various degreesof heat , and to observe the appearances produced by evaporation .
After a few hours , and when the residue had ceased to , lose weight , the saline mass , whilst still warm , appeared in the form of a white semitransparent incrustation , which yielded to the touch , being soft , and of a pulpy consistence ... In cooling it became hard , and of a much more opaque white colour .
When examined with attention , the borders of this mass were found covered with small cubic crystals , dl anthe same appearance was observed , though less conspicuously , in the centreunder the saline incrustation , when in the state fe mifuri ' si ust described .
Oni standing in the air for some time , the white opaque mass gradually absorbed water from the atmosphere , and returned to a liquid state .
The 20 grains of the water , thus evaporated and dried at 18oo , weighed , whilst still warm , 8,2 grains .
s. The same saline mass being afterwards exposed in a sand bath to the temperature of 21 2 FAHRENHEIT , was reduced to 7,7 grains .
Hitherto-not the least smell of muriatic acid was perceived , nor did any decomposition appear to take place .
3 .
But having raised the heat about 15 ?
higher , the residue , after a few minutes , was found reduced to 7,4grains ; and on redissolving it , a few insoluble white particles appeared floating in the solution , showing an incipient decomposition in the muriat of magnesia .
It appears from these experiments that loo parts of the Dead Sea water yield 41 of salts dried at 180 ?
, and 38,5 dried at 212 ?
.* What proportion these quantities bear to the samej salts , when perfectly deprived of water , will be seen from the subsequent results .
I now pass on to the chemical examination of the water. .
4 .
To 0oo grains of the Dead Sea water a few drops of muriat of barytes being added , a precipitate was obtained , which , after being well washed and exposed to a low red heat on a piece of laminated platina , weighed o , o9 grain , which , allowing for the unavoidable loss attending the manipulation of such very minute quantities , may safely be called o ; , grain .
This residue , on being heated with fluat of lime , instantly ran into a globule , ana was evidently sulphat of barytes .
5 .
To another portion of the Dead Sea water , weighing 250 grains , a solution of nitrat of silver being added till it ceased to produce any precipitate , a quantity of luna cornea was obtained , which after careful edulcoration and exposure to a red heat , weighed 163,2 grains , a quantity equivalent , according to the proportions above stated ( ?
II .
3 ) , to 31 , o9 grains of real acid .
6 .
To the remaining solution a little muriat of ammonia was added , in order to remove the unavoidable small excess of silver , and this new precipitate was separated and well 'edulcorated .
7 .
The clear fluid , which had been much increased in bulk by : these edulcorations , being : concentrated to about s ounces , a strong solution of oxalat of ammonia , warm , but not nearlyboil ing , *was added to it , by which a prcipitate was obtained , which collected and washed with the usual precautions , and after deducing o , o76 grains of lime -for the 0,136 grains of selenite belonging to 250 grains of the water , yielded 4,814 grains of pure lime ==4,66 grains acid = 9,48 grains muriat of lime .
I should not omit mentioning that the method which I used in all my experiments to ascertainthe quantity of pure lime in o : xxat of lime , :consistedA in driving off the oxalic acid by a low-red , heat , and addingto the calcareous residue , then converted into , a subcarbonat , a known quantity of muriatic acid more than sufficient to dissolve the whole lime .
A piece of marble pofknown weight was afterds added to take up the excess : of acid , and from these data the quantity of lime was calculated with great precision .
8 .
The clear solution containing nitratof magnesia , nitrat of soda , and a small excess both of oxalat and muriat of ammonia , and amounting in bulk to about 4 ounces , was exposed to the heat of a lamp for concentration ; but in a few minutes the mixture became turbid and began to'deposite a white powder , which , from former observations , I supposed to be oxalat of magnesia .
To this solution concentrated to between 2 and 3 ounces , and still warm , I added carbonat of ammonia with excess of pure ammonia .
A considerable precipitation immediately appeared , and the mixture became opaqe and milky .
The next morning , however , the fluidhad become quite transparent , and instead of a white impalpable precipitate , I found clusters of perfectly pellucid crystals spread over the bottom of the vessel , with distinct interstices between them .
This salt was no doubt an ammoniaco-magnesian carbonate ; .and the remaining solution , although still containing , as will presently appear , a vestige of magnesia , was so far free from it , as not to have its transparency disturbed by caustic potash .
These crystals , after being well washed in distilled water , were exposed to a gentle heat to drive off the ammonia , in consequence of which they crumbled down into a white impalpable powder , exactly resembling common carbonat of magnesia .
This powder being then treated , and its quantity estimated , in awy sWailHarito that which had been employed witheline , ; and being icreased : by t addtion out , gransf similar:preipitate " ( which ha escape the action oft carbonat of ammonia andN was obtained from the last remaining solution:':by evaporaticn 'and : calcination ) , amounted to 1,10 grains ' f pure'magnesia = 14,15 grains of muriaic acid= ' 25,25 grainis of muriat of magnesia .
I ' : Thi:muriat:of sodawas next estimated from ' the 1 di , e8 grains of m ri atic acid found to re rain after subtractfig the loning f0tihe lime and mi'agnesia , from te 3 1,09 grains , or sum to t --talof acd : .
These,28 8graiins gave according to the proportions before meitioied ( - ?
' I : ),26 , '"9 grains'ofmu.f , :~s:re .
soda ifo : .
Frm'these sebveral results brought into one view , and th:salts'beiTig supposed heated to redness , .
' a grainsf the Dea:d-Sea'water appear -tocontain , 'Salts .
Acid .
Muriat of-lime ; , - ; 9,4m80 grains 4,66 grains .
Muriat of magnesia 25,25 : S=,15 M:uriat of soda 26,695 =,28 Sulphat of liime -^ ' ' .
i01 ' '-l : ' nf - ; : , 61,561 1,09 Anid therefore 0oo grains of the same water would contai : , Grains .
Muriat of lime - : , -792 Muriat of magnesia 10,100 Muriat of soda 1,676 Sulphat of lime o , o5 -24,622 Ss V. Second Analysis of the Dead Sea Water by a Method somewhat differentfrom theformer .
In the mode of proceeding just related , some small loss in the earths might naturally be suspected to have taken place in consequence of the previous separation of the acid and indispensable edulcorations .
Besides , the muriat of soda being necessarily decomposed by the first part of the process , the analysis could not have been considered as quite satisfactory , had not the common salt been procured unaltered by some other process .
i. In order to obtain these points , 150 grains of the water were treated , with regard to the lime and magnesia , exactly as in the former analysis ; but in this case , the acid , instead of being actually separated by silver , was only calculated from the former estimation ( ?
IV .
5 ) .
e. The result proved perfectly agreeable to my expectation .
It yielded a little more lime and magnesia than the former analysis , but this excess was scarcely perceptible .
With regard to the muriat of soda , I was able actually to procure by evaporation , as much as 1,1 grains of this salt , the actual quantity of which , inferred as in the preceding analysis , was 15,54 grains , a difference easily accounted for by the necessity of heating the salt to redness for its ultimate separation .
g. On summing up the contents of these 150 grains of the water , they appeared to be as follow : 1io Salts .
Acid .
Muriat of lime 5,88 grains 2,89 grains .
Muriat of magnesia 15,37 = 8,61 Muriat of soda 5,54 = 7,15 Selenite,08 36,87 18,65 And consequently the proportions of these salts in ioo grains of the water would be : Grains .
Muriat of'lime 3 920 Muriat of magnesia 10,246 Muriat of soda 10,360 Sulphat of lime 0,054 24,580 The coincidence of these results with those of the former analysis was such as I could scarcely have expected to increase by further trials .
The last statement , however , I consider as the most accurate of the two .
It may therefore be stated in general terms , that the DeadSea water contains about one fourth of its weight of salts supposed in a state of perfect desiccation ; whilst , as I observed before , if these salts be only desiccated at the temperature of 180 ?
, they will amount to 41 per cent. of the water .
This great difference between the two states of desiccation depends on the great affinity which muriats , particularly that of magnesia , have for water .
Muriat of soda is scarcely at all concerned in this difference : for I found , not without surprise , that 0oo grains of artifical cubic crystals of muriat of soda , bing fused Ss $i ?
and heated to redness in a platina crucible , lost at most half a grain .
In the analysis of MACQUER and LAVOISIER , the solid contents of the Dead Sea are estimated at about 45 per cent. of the water , and in the proportions of nearly 1 part of common salt to 4 of muriat of magnesia , and 3 of muriat of lime ; proportions widely different from those which I had obtained .
But their mode of operating , which they candidly relate , was so evidently inaccurate with regard to the separation and desiccation of the salts , and in general so deficient in the estimation of quantities and proportions , that these eminent chemists cannot be considered as having aimed , in this instance , at any thing like an exact analysis .
It may be observed also , that these gentlemen found the specific gravity of the water 1,240 instead of 1,211 , as I have stated it to be ; but it appears that their specimen had suffered some evaporation previous to their experiments , since they found crystals of common salt in one of their bottles , which could not have happened without evaporation .
Besides , the specimen which I examined was , I understand , brought from a part of the lake not more than two miles distant from the mouth of the Jordan , a circumstance which may perhaps account for its being somewhat more diluted , than it might be found in other parts . ?
VI .
Analysis of the Water of the River Yordan .
As I had scarcely two ounces of this water , and as it contained but a very small proportion of saline ingredients , it " would have been in vain to aim at analyzing it with strict accuracy .
Yet I thought it worth while to endeavour to form as exact an estimation of its contents as I could , on account of its connection with the Dead Sea , into which , as was observed before , it pours its waters , and appears to remain in a stagnating state .
This specimen was brought from a spot about three miles distant from that where the river enters the Dead Sea .
From the perfect pellucidity of this water , its softness , and the absence of any obvious saline taste , I was led to suppose that it was uncommonly pure , and could in no degree partake of the peculiar saline qualities of the Dead Sea .
But I was soon induced to alter my opinion by the following results .
1 .
The same chemical reagents , as were used to ascertain the general properties of the Dead Sea water , being applied to this , produced analogous effects .
The same three muriats and even the vestige of selenite , were distinctly discovered ; and this resemblance became more striking in proportion as the water was concentrated by evaporation .
2 .
500 grains of this water being evaporated at about 200 ?
, the dry residue weighed exactly o,8 grains .
This makes the solid ingredients amount only to 1,6 grains in 1ooo grains of the water , a singular contrast withi the Dead Sea , which contains nearly 3oo times that proportion of saline matter .
As the water was concentrating , a few white particles were perceived on its surface , and a few others gradually subsided .
When dried , the residue appeared in the form of a white incrustation , the upper edge of which exhibited great numbers of very minute crystals , which from their saline taste , and their cubic shape discoverable by the aid of a microscope , .
were evidently common salt .
313 Distilled water being thrown on this residue , a minute portion of it remained undissolved , and on pouring an acid on this substance , a distinct effervescence was produced , showing the presence of carbonat of lime .
4 .
From the clear fluid a precipitate was obtained by oxalat of ammonia , which , dried but not calcined , weighed o,12 grains .
5 .
From the remaining clear solution a magnesian precipitate was produced by ammonia and phosphoric acid , which , after driving off the ammonia by heat , weighed o,18 grains .
6 .
The solution had suffered too many alterations to allow me to separate , with any degree of accuracy , the muriat of soda ; but from a variety of circumstances , I thought it not unlikely that it would have been found pretty nearly in the same proportions , with respect to the other salts , as it exists in the Dead Sea .
The inference I drew from this was , that the River Jordan might possibly be the source of the saline ingredients of the DeadSea , or at leastthat the same source of impregnation might be common to both .
This inquiry , however , would require a much more correct knowledge both of the proportions of the salts , and of local circumstances , than I have ben able to obtain .
3S14

