1881 .
] Gapt .
Abney .
On the Spectrum of Sodium .
44a tend to introduce greater or less errors .
For example , the flow in the second medium must have been somewhat disturbed by the circumstance that the non-conducting walls of the intermediate cell were parallel to the direction of the incident , not refracted flow , which may possibly have disturbed the course even as far as the middle of the cell .
Again , there would have been a much larger resistance in the porous wall than in a stratum of equal thickness of one of the electrolytes and the thickness or porosity of the wall , or the proportion of the two electrolytes imbibed by it , , may have varied somewhat in a lateral direction .
The numbers obtained cannot therefore be deemed sufficient to decide between two such laws as that of sines and that o tangents .
In case of the second medium being the better conductor , it is evident that the law of sines would lead to extravagant results , as there can be no such thing as total internal reflection .
The alteration in the direction of the equipotential surfaces , and , therefore , of the lines of flow , in passing from one metal into another of different conducting power , has already been investigated experimentally by Quincke , and the results of experiment compared with theory .
( " Pogg .
Ann. , vol. xcvii [ 1856 ] , p. 382.)\#151 ; G. G. S. , 14 June , 1881 .
] XX .
" Note on the Spectrum of Sodium .
" By Captain W. de W. Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1881 .
On examining the spectra of different metals , there is one point which is striking in the extreme , viz. , the absence of any very mar e lines in the region between X 7000 and X 7600 , which latter number we may take as the visible limit of the spectrum .
With the exception of the well-known pair of lines of potassium , I am not aware that any lines in metallic spectra , which have been carefully studied , have been found below this limit , though recently , in the spectra of some ot the rarer earths , I believe some few lines have been recorded.^ Having photographed the emission spectra produced in the iof several metals , it appears , so far as examination has been made , t a only those which can be volatilised at a low temperature have any lines in the infra-red region .
Sodium is an example of this.^ t as a pair of lines at wave-length of about 8187 and 8199 of an intensity of about 3 , taking the intensity of D lines as 10 .
It will be no e that the difference in wave-length between this pair is greater than that of the D lines .
They do not seem to have any corresponding dark lines in the solar spectrum , though there are three faint lmes which lie close to these wave-lengths . .
In the calcium spectrum there is a pair of very faint lines w ic lie between X 8500 and 8600 .
Their exact wave-lengths have not at present been determined .
VOL. xxxii .
" \#174 ; Mr. J. W. L. Glaisher .
[ June 16 , Iron , cobalt , nickel , copper , magnesium , and potassium have , up to the present , given negative results , but will be examined again/ XXL " Formulae for sn8w , cn8m , dn8m , in terms of sn By Ernest H. Glaisher , B.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. Glaisher , M.A. , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) In Grunert 's " Archiv der Mathematik und Physik , " vol. xxxvi ( 1861 ) , pp. 125-176 , Baebr has given the formulae for sn cn dn nuin terms of sum for the cases 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 .
These expressions are reproduced in a tabular form in Cayley 's " Treatise on Elliptic Functions , " Art .
109 .
The present paper contains the corresponding formulae for the case of n\#151 ; 8 .
Denoting the numerators and common denominator of sn 4m , cn 4 u , dn 4m by P , Q , R , S respectively , then the numerators and common denominator of sn 8 cn dn 8 are respectively 2PQRS , S4\#151 ; 2P2S2+7\lt ; ;2P4 , S4-2\amp ; 2P2S2 + \amp ; 2P4 , S4- \amp ; 2P4 ; and the paper contains the values of these quantities and also of P2 , S2 , P4 , S4 in terms of sn u , arranged in a tabular form .
.XXII .
" On Riccafci 's Equation and its Transformations , and on some Definite Integrals which satisfy them .
" By J. W. L. Glaisher , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received June 16 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir relates chiefly to the different forms of the particular integrals of the differential equation ... ... ( i ) , and to the evaluation of certain definite integrals which are connected with this equation .
Transforming ( 1 ) by assuming u=x~Pv and putting 1 , it becomes cfiv cTa ?
2 x dx and this may be transformed into Riccati 's equation , ( 2)\gt ;

