XII .
Experiments and observations to prove that the beneficial effects of many medicines are produced through the medium of the circulating blood , more particularly that of the colchicun autumnale upon the gout .
By Sir Everard Home , Bar ! .
V. P. R. S. Communicated by the Society for improving animal chemistry .
Read March 1 , i816 .
A KNOWLEDGE of the readiness with which liquids pass from the stomach into the circulation , carrying along with them the impregnation of different medicines ; and the readiness with which such medicines are carried off from the circulating blood , by the action of the kidneys , led Mr. BRAND and myself to an enquiry respecting the prevention of gravel and gout , upon which subject he has laid two separate papers before the Society .
In these communications , the action of different substances on the contents of the stomach has been considered , and those substances most efficient in depriving them of the principal ingredient met with in stone and gout , are pointed out .
For the cure of gout , the eau medicinale of Husson has been most fortunately discovered to be a specific remedy , and it is now ascertained , by experiments on different people , that a vinous infusion of the colchicum autumnale , or meadow saffron , is equally so , and therefore the two medicines must be considered as the same .
To ascertain their mode of action , appeared to me an enquiry connected with the objects of this Society , which are not confined to the knovwedge of purely chemical combinations in the stomach , or other parts of the body , but include the effects of galvanism on the nerves , and of mineral and vegetable solutions on the blood , so far as they affect the actions of life , or the symptoms of disease .
It has already beet determined by experiment , that almost every mineral , vecetable , and animal poison , if not the whole of them , is carried into the circulation before it produces its specific effects upon particular parts , whther these are the stomach , skin , or other parts of the body .
The most truly specific medicine that we have been hitherto acquainted with , is mercury for the venereal disease , and it is completely established that this remedy , when in the circulation , is equally efficient in the cure of a recent chancre produced by innoculation , and a venereal sore throat , in consequence of the disease having been carried into the circulation .
That other medicines can be received into the circulation , and , as soon as t hey arrive tlere , produce their effects upon different parts of the body , is proved by experiments made by the late Mr. HUNTER , although he had no idea of their being usually carried there before they produce the different actions so well known to follow their exhibition by the mouth .
He found that infusions of the following substances received into the circulation by the jugular vein , iumediately produced the same er'ects which more slowly ollow their being taken by the mouth .
I fusion of opium brought on drowsiness .
Infusion of ipecacuanha vowmiting .
Jalap vomiting and purging .
Infusion of rhubarb a profuse flow of lrine .
These eikcts ceased in a fw hours , and appeared to have in no respect inured the animal 's health .
Except the e58 venereal disease , gout is the only one whose local symptoms have been completely removed by medicine , in so short a time , as to put it beyond all doubt that their removal is the effect of the medicine .
The effect of the eau medicinale and of the vinous infusion of the colchicum autumnale on gout , is indeed more rapid than that of mercury on the venereal disease , but in all other respects corresponds with it , and if these medicines act through the medium of the circulation , the only difference may be , that the one is more quickly received into it than the other . ?
This power of the eau medicinale , which I have stated to be exactly similar to that of the colchicum autumnale over the local symptoms of gout , I have ascertained by experiment more than six times upon myself ; at one time the symptoms went off in six hours , at another in 12 , and at others in 24 hours .
As we know the sensible effects of mercury , whether it is introduced into the circulation by the absorbents , or received into the stoinach , are the same , we conclude whenever these sensible effects are met with , that mercury is actually in the circulation .
It therefore occurred to me , that if the sensible effects of the infusion of the colchicum should prove to be the same , whether it is introduced into the circulation by the jugular vein , or received by the mouth into the stomach , that we might equally in both cases conclude it to be in the circulation .
To determine this point , 30 drops of the vinous infusion of the colchicum ( made by macerating two pounds of the fresh roots in 24 ounces of Sherry wine , in a gentle heat for six days , the spirit being previously carried off by heat , ) was diluted with a dram of water , and conveyed into the circulation of a moderately sized dog by the jugular vein .
The dog 's pulse in a natural state is 140 in a minute .
In 5 minutes , the dog had a tremulous motion of the muscles and fluttering of the pulse , accompanied with nausea , but no retching to vomit .
In 14 lminutes , the pulse was 180 in a minute and had frequent intermissions .
In 4 hours , the pulse was io in a minute , of its natural strength , and had frequent intermissions .
In 7 hours , the dog had a natural motion , the pulse had no intermission , was 140 in the minute .
The dog had a good appetite for food , and appeared in perfect health .
The same dog at the end of three complete days , swallowed 60 drops of the same infusion , exactly double the quantity that had been introduced into the circulation .
In 9 hours , he became languid , the pulse wiry and weak , but 140 in the minute , In 4A hours , the languor much less and the pulse natural .
In 8 hours , the dog had had a natural motion .
In Il hours , was in good spirits and very well .
The sensible effects , upon the dog , were similar to those produced upon myself , but in a less degree .
Under the influence of a violent fit of the gout , in the ankle , on the 2gd of December , 1815 , at to o'clock in the morning , I took o6 drops of the eau medicinale ; the pain of the gout was insufferable , I got into bed , and was so chilly as not to be able to keep my hands warm , even under the bed clothes .
In 2 hours , I became rather hot and thirsty .
In 3 hours , the pain was so much diminished as to be tolerable , while the limb was at rest .
In 7 hours , I had a confined motion from the bowels , and the pain in the ankle became severe , while the foot was placed aoon the ground , but this went off as soon as the foot was again placed in a horizontal posture .
A nausea , or half sickness , came on ; my pulse , which is naturally 8o in a minute , was lowered to 6o , and intermitted .
In lo hours , the nausea was gone off , but I remained languid , the pulse beating 70 in a minute .
I had some appetite for food .
The following morning , my pulse was 80 , and having passed a good night , I was enabled to walk as usual , and follow the duties of my profession .
If these observations shall be confirmed , they must lead us to conclude , that the different kinds of substances , which produce specific diseases , are first carried into the circulation , in the same manner as mineral and animal poisons , and that the medicines by which they are acted upon , go through the same course , before they produce their beneficial effects ; a material step will thus be gained in the consideration of diseases , and the modes of treating them .
M m1 261

