Double Conduction in the Central Nervous 243 " Double ( Antidrome ) Conduction in the Central Nervous System .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Holt Professor of Physiology , University College , Liverpool .
Received February 15 , \#151 ; Read April 8 , 1897 .
In a paper presented to the Society last year , * I drew attention to some striking instances of " long conduction " through the bulbospinal cord , and among others to the following singular one .
If after transection over the bulbospinal axis the funiculus gracilis be excited , e.g. , at the calamus script orius , the excitation evokes movement ( contraction , relaxation ) in the idiolateral hind limb .
If instead of f. gracilis the funiculus cuneatus be excited the movement ( contraction , relaxation ) is in the idiolateral forelimb .
The movement in the hind limb is in the monkey usually adduction and flexion of hallux , in the cat flexion of knee , hip , or ankle .
In the monkey the forelimb movement is usually flexion and adduction of pollex , often with extension of the other digits ; in the cat , more usually flexion of elbow with protraction of the shoulder .
The movements which occur are , however , various , and I will here only add that those from the f.gracilis include the vaginal and anal orifices , the tail , and the abdominal muscles , those from f. cuneatus the diaphragm ; but that neither from f. gracilis nor f. cuneatus have I obtained idiolateral extension of elbow or of knee .
In my former paper this phenomenon was recorded under the head of " long bulbo-spinal conductions .
" I did not offer any explanation of it , for it appeared to particularly require further investigation .
1 have , since communicating the above paper , taken various opportunities of examining the reaction further .
My enquiry has elicited the subjoined results .
The movements evoked in the perineum or hind limb by excitation of the / .
gracilis after transection of the bulb are obtainable from that column , after its isolation , by freeing it above and from its ventrolateral connexions for a length of 3 cm .
, and then suspending its upper end from a thread .
The reaction is therefore hardly due to escape of the stimulating currents used , so that they reach the lateral columns and the descending tracts there contained .
The currents employed have been induced , and of an intensity imperceptible , or barely perceptible to the tongue tip .
The electrodes have been bright steel needles , placed about 1 mm. apart , and laid on the surfaces of the cord or bulb .
* " Experiments in examination of the Peripheral Distribution of the Fibres of the Posterior Roots of some Spinal Nerves , Part II , " Abstract , ' Roy .
So .
Proc. , ' vol. 60 , No. 365 .
Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
Double ( Antidrome ) The reaction is obtainable when the transection has been made altogether below the nuclei graciles et cuneati .
It therefore does not necessarily involve the cells of those nuclei .
The reaction is not prevented by complete bilateral transverse severance of the ventro-lateral columns and grey matter of the cord at the\#151 ; 5th cervical root level , nor at the 8th , , " " 5th thoracic " " 1st lumbar " , , 5th , , , , ( cat ) .
The reaction is at once annulled on severance of the dorsal columns , at any one of the above levels , although at the same time the ventrolateral columns and the grey matter remain intact .
The reaction from the left / .
gracilis is annulled by severance of the left dorsal column , that of the right by the severance of the right .
The reaction can almost always be obtained\#151 ; although incompletely\#151 ; by mechanical excitation , by compression with ivory forceps , often even by a mere touching with the forceps .
That the conduction involved in the reaction does not implicate the fibres of the pyramidal tract\#151 ; which at first instance suggest themselves as a source of fallacy\#151 ; seems clear in light of the above .
That supposition is also , and I think finally , excluded by the following observation .
I have found the " long intra-spinal reflexes , " like sub-cerebral rigidity ( " decerebrate tonus , " locally abolished , or greatly depressed by total severance of the sensory spinal roots belonging to their own region of terminal discharge .
Thus , to take an instance given in my former paper , if the right forepaw be stimulated the paths of " short spinal conduction"* from it lead to discharge of its own flexors of elbow , extensors of wrist , \amp ; c. , as specified in the paper ; and the paths of " long spinal conduction " from it lead to discharge of the muscles of the idiolateral hind limb .
To evoke from the forepaw movement of the contralateral hind limb is relatively difficult ; this contralateral movement is less commonly and less easily obtained , and when obtained less vigorous , less prolonged , and usually commences later than the idiolateral .
But if , in the instance taken , the series of afferent spinal roots belonging to the right hind limb be severed , and stimulation of the forepaw ( right ) be then repeated , the movement induced in the hind limbs is contralateral , i , e. , a crossed one .
In the * " Experiments in examination of the Peripheral Distribution of the Fibres of the Posterior Roots of some Spinal Nerves , Part II , " Abstract , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 , No. 365 .
Conduction in the Central Nervous System .
245 idiolateral limb it is extremely difficult , often impossible , to then .obtain by this facile long spinal path any discharge at all on the side of the transected afferent roots , although that side is usually peculiarly accessible .
T find that similarly severance of the dorsal ( afferent ) roots in their extraspinal course greatly impairs the reaction from the / .
gracilesand / .
cuneati .
Thus , if when flexion of right knee or right hallux is being regularly evoked by excitation of f. gracilis at the top of the cord , the extraspinal dorsal ( afferent ) roots of the right pelvic limb be severed , the reaction , until then regularly obtained , disappears or almost disappears .
The section of right hand roots annuls the right hand reaction , but not the left hand , and conversely .
On the other hand , the flexion of knee , or of hallux , or of elbow obtained by excitation of the Rolandic cortex or of the lateral column ( pyramidal tract fibres ) is , as has been shown in a previous number of these ' Proceedings '* by Dr. Mott and myself , not impaired after the root severance , indeed often appears , on the contrary , to be facilitated .
In this respect , therefore , the reaction obtainable by direct excitation of / .
graciles and / .
is shown to be curiously .different from that obtainable from the pyramidal tract fibres and Rolandic cortex .
On the other hand , it is seen to resemble in this respect to a remarkable degree the " long spinal reflexes " as defined above .
What , then , is the nature of this reaction obtainable from the / .
graciles and cuneati ?
The reaction is evidently one which involves each dorsal column of the cord as a conducting path , in many cases as a " long " \#151 ; in not a few as a remarkably long\#151 ; conducting path , even employing its whole length .
In light of the evidence given above , I infer that although certainly , as has been long established , the dorsal column is , with the single exception of its short , scanty , and deeply placed ground-bundle , a functionally purely upward path , consisting of nothing else than sensory root fibres , the vast majority of which fibres\#151 ; and all the longest of which\#151 ; are ascendant ; the conduction along it in these experiments is downward , eveu extending its whole length .
That is to say , the conduction must be downward and cellulipetal along ascending axons which function in a. cellulifugal direction ; that is to say , the propagation of the impulses artificially started in my observations must have been antidrome instead of orthodrome .
The motor discharges evoked I refer to the spread of the excited condition into the collaterals of the axons excited to antidrome conduction , their collaterals impinging upon motor neurons .
The direction of propagation occurs therefore in opposition to the * " Experiments upon the Influence of Sensory Nerves upon Movement and Nutrition of the Limbs , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 57 , March 7 , 1895 .
246 Double Conduction in the Central Nervous System .
law of the " polarisationdynamique des " put forward by Ramon-y-Cajal* and V. Grehuchten.f It offers , however , no contradiction to what JaniesJ has termed " the law of forward direction it only emphasises that that law predicates the existence of at least two links in its conduction-gear .
The reaction is therefore in my view an extreme illustration of double ( antidrome , doppelsinnige ) nervous conduction .
After du Bois ' fundamental observation with frog 's sciatic and the electrical sign , it has been Kuhne 's sartoriusexperiment , ^ and Babuchin's|| reversed discharge in the electric organ nerve-fibre , which have laid a satisfactory foundation for double conduction in peripheral nerves .
But between those experiments and these , the subject of this note , there are , it is true , differences .
In the latter , ( \#171 ; ) propagation occurs over relatively huge distances and ( J3 ) the reaction occurs within the field of the central nervous system .
These differences need not , however , negative the relationship of the phenomena .
They render it the more instructive .
It is obvious that there must be opportunity for detection of antidrome conduction in parts of the central nervous system besides the dorsal spinal columns .
Thus , on exciting , especially with electric currents , the mammalian metencephalon ( ) and isthmus rhomb encephalic subsequent to ablation of the parts above , I have seen movements produced in the limbs and trunk , and also inhibitions occur .
Thus , " in instance of the latter , inhibition of the tonic extensor spasm of the fore and hind limbs combined with contraction of the flexors of knee and elbow , such as is seen under local spinal reflex action.** It will have to be determined whether in such cases as the former we have not before us instances of antidrome conduction along ascending paths .
The antidrome phenomenon , while of valuable assistance when recognised , may , if unrecognised , give rise to very misleading inferences .
Its methodic use should place in our hands a fresh instrument of value for neurological research .
* ' Medicina practica , ' 1889 ; ' Revista de Ciencias Medicas de Barcelona , ' Nos. 21 and 22,1891 .
t ' La Cellule , ' vol. 7 , p. 101 , 1891 .
+ \lt ; Psychology , ' and cf. Waller , ' Science Progress , ' vol. 3 , p. 186 , May , 1895 .
S ' Arch. f. Anat .
u. Physiol. , ' 1859 , p. 595 .
|| Du Bois-Reymond 's 'Arch .
f. Physiol. , ' 1877 , p. 66 .
If Sherrington , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 , p. 414 .
** Sherrington , ibid.

