262 Mr. W. Crookes .
[ May 31 May 31 , 1883 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Bakerian Lecture\#151 ; " On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
A New Method of Spectrum Analysis , " was delivered by William Crookes , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1883 .
The following is an Abstract:\#151 ; For several years I have been examining the phenomena presented by various substances when struck by the molecular discharge from the negative pole in a highly exhausted tube .
I have ventured to call this discharge " radiant matter , " and under its influence a large number of substances emit phosphorescent light , some faintly and others with great intensity .
On examining the emitted light in the spectroscope most bodies give a faint continuous spectrum , with a more or less decided concentration in one part of the spectrum , the superficial colour of the phosphorescing substance being governed by this preponderating emission in -one or other part of the spectrum .
Sometimes , but more rarely , the spectrum of the phosphorescent light is discontinuous , and it is to bodies manifesting this phenomenon that my attention has been specially directed .
For a long time past I have been haunted by a bright citron-coloured band or line appearing in these phosphorescent spectra , sometimes as a sharp line , at others as a broader nebulous band , but having always a characteristic appearance and occurring uniformly in the same spot .
The best way to bring out the band is to treat the substance under examination with strong sulphuric acid , drive off excess of acid by heat , and finally to raise the temperature to redness .
The anhydrous sulphate thus left frequently shows the citron band in the radiant matter tube , when before this treatment the original substance shows nothing .
I soon came to the conclusion that the substance I was in search of was an earth , but on attempting to determine its chemical properties I was baffled .
Much chemical evidence tended to support the view that the band might be due to a compound of lime .
By neglecting the portion showing least citron band , and separating all the elements present which gave little or none , I could generally concentrate the citron band into a solution which \#151 ; according to our present knowledge of analytical chemistry\#151 ; should contain little else than the earths , 1883 .
] On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
263 alkaline earths , and alkalies .
Ammonia added to this solution would precipitate an earth , and in the filtrate oxalic acid would precipitate an insoluble oxalate , showing the citron band strongly .
This was found on analysis to consist of strontic and calcic oxalates .
The strontia being separated , the remaining lime formed an oxalate which gave the citron band .
' g0 far all the chemical evidence went to show that the bandforming substance was calcium , and further tests tried with the purified oxalate confirmed this inference .
Every analytical test to which it was subjected showed lime , and nothing but lime ; all the salts which were prepared from it resembled those of lime , both physically and chemically ; the flame spectrum gave the calcium lines with extraordinary purity and brilliancy ; and , finally , the atomic weight , taken with great care , came out almost the same as that for calcium , 39'9 as against Ca 40 .
On further examination it was found that most native compounds of lime gave the citron band .
It was found in clear and colourless Iceland spar , native calcic phosphate , a crystal of arragonite , a stalactite of calcic carbonate from Gibraltar , cinnamon stone ( lime alumina garnet ) , iron slag from a blast-furnace , pink coral , commercial plaster of Paris , and most specimens of ordinary burnt lime .
Evidence stronger than this in favour of the view that the citron hand was an inherent characteristic of calcium could scarcely be ; hut , on the other hand , there was evidence equally conclusive that the band was not essential to caleium .
Starting with a lime compound which showed the citron band , I could always obtain a calcic oxalate which gave the band stronger than the original substance ; but if I started with a lime compound which originally gave no citron band , I could never by any means , chemical or physical , constrain the lime or the earthy precipitate to yield a citron band .
The only explanation that I could see for this anomaly was that the elusive citron band was caused by some element precipitated with the calcic oxalate , but present in a quantity too small to be detected by ordinary chemical means .
The calcic oxalate was ignited and dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and fractionally precipitated in three portions with ammonic oxalate , the first and third portions being comparatively small .
They were then tested in the radiant matter tube .
All three portions showed the citron band , but the portion which came down first gave the band decidedly the strongest , and the third portion precipitated showed it weakest .
It having been found that the substance giving the citron band formed a sulphate more soluble in water than calcic sulphate , 4 lbs. weight of commercial plaster of Paris , which showed very faint traces of the citron band , were mixed with water and poured on Mr. W. Crookes .
[ May 31 , a arge filter .
A few ounces of water were poured on , and after passing through , poured back , and the exhaustion repeated several times .
The aqueous extract was then evaporated to dryness , ignited wit sulphuric acid , ground in a mortar with small successive quan-i les of water , and precipitated with ammonic oxalate .
The precipitate , ignited with sulphuric acid , showed tne citron band very fairiy , ar more intensely than it was se\amp ; n in the original calcic sulphate . .
^ese experiments are conclusive in proving that the citron band is not due to\gt ; calcium , but to some other element , probably one of the eai thy metals , occurring " in very minute quantities but widely distributed along with calcium , and^I at once commenced experiments to find a more abundant supply of the body sought for .
Amongst other substances tested I may note the following as giving a more or less decided citron band in the spectruin when treated with sulphuric acid in the manner indicated above Crystallised barytic chlorate , heavy spar , common limestone , strontie nitrate , native strontic carbonate , crystallised uranic nitrate , commercial5 magnesic sulphate , commercial potassic sulphate , tobacco ash , wagliferite ( magnesic phosphate and fluoride ) , zircon ; cerite , and commercial ceric oxalate .
Some specimens of zircon appeared sufficiently rich to make it probable that here might be found an available source of the citron band yielding body .
I found it in crystals from Green River , North Carolina , from Ceylon , from'Expailly , from Miask ( Oural ) , and from Brevig , and having a good supply of North Carolina zircons , these were worked up by a process given in detail in the paper .
I may condense a year 's work on zircon , \#151 ; over 10 lbs. weight of crystals from North Carolina having been worked up\#151 ; by stating that the result was comprised in about 300 grS .
of an earthy residue , and about 2 ozs.-of oxalate , chiefly calcic ; the former gave the citron band very well .
The zirconia prepared from these zircons , when tested , sometimes showed the citron band , and at other times none .
A zirconia rich in citron band , fractionally precipitated by ammonia , yielded precipitates of increasing richness , the last fraction showing the citron band strongly .
The calcic oxalate obtained from ' zircon gave unsatisfactory results , so attention was directed to the earthy residue .
This was found to be of highly complex character , containing thoria , ceria , lanthana , didymia , yttria , and probably some of the newly-discovered rarer earths .
The position of the citron band1 in thfe spectrum falls exactly on the strongest absorption band of didymium , so that a piece of didymiura glass or cell of solution of the nitrate entirely obliterates the citron band .
This naturally suggested that the band was due to didymium .
11883 .
] On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
265 Cerite was accordingly the next mineral experimented on .
The powdered mineral tested in the tube in the original way gave a good citron band .
The mixed earths after extraction were converted into sulphates , dissolved in water , and the cerium metals precipitated by long digestion with excess of potassic sulphate .
The precipitated double sulphates were converted into oxalates , iand after ignition and treatment with sulphuric acid , the mixed eerie , lanthana , and didymia were tested in the radiant matter tube , but the merest trace only of citron baud was visible .
This experiment proved the-inadequacy of the didymium explanation , and further tests showed that not only could I get no citron band in pure didymium compounds , -but the spectrum entirely failed to detect didymium in many solutions of the earth which gave the citron band brilliantly .
Attention was now turned to the solution filtered from the insoluble double sulphates .
Potash was added , and the- precipitate filtered off , and tested in a radiant matter tube.- The spectrum , of extraordinary brilliancy , was far brighter than any I had hitherto obtained .
Unfortunately , however , the quantity was too small to be subjected to very accurate chemical*analysis .
Search was now made amongst other minerals rich in the rarer earths .
Thorite was finely powdered , treated with sulphuric acid , and tested in the radiant matter tube .
It- gave the citron spectrum most brilliantly\#151 ; equal in fact to the mixture ' of earths obtained from zircons at so great an expenditure ' of time and trouble .
Orangite treated in the same manner gave almost as good a spectrum .
Pure thorinic sulphate prepared by myself was found not to give the citron band , but three specimens ' prepared and given to me by friends all gave it , so it was not unlikely that in thorite and orangite might at last be found a good source of the long-sought element-\#151 ; that in fact the body I was hunting for , if not thorina , might possibly be Bahr s hypothetical wasium .
Two- pounds of orangite and thorite were extracted with hydrochloric acid .
The solution was precipitated with potassic sulphate , - taking the Usual precautions to secure complete precipitation .
A bulky precipitate ensued , which contained the thorina and cerium earths .
These were separated and tested , and found to give only a faint citron band .
The solution of earthy sulphates soluble in1 potassic sulphate was precipitated with ammonic oxalate .
The* precipitate ignited with sulphuric acid , and tested in a radiant ?
matter tube , gave the citron spectrum with great brilliancy .
Certain chemical facts concerning the behaviour of the sought-for element which came out during the course of the tentative trials described in the paper considerably narrowed the list amongst which it might probably be found .
All the evidence tends to show that it Mr. W. Crookes .
[ May 31 belongs to the gronp of earthy metals , consisting of aluminium ' beryllium , thorium , zirconium , cerium , lanthanum , didymium and th i yttrium family , together with titanium , tantalum , and niobium Th sought-for earth is insoluble in excess of potash ; this exclude ] aluminium and beryllium .
It is not precipitated by continued boiliJ with sodic thiosulphate ; this excludes aluminium , thorium zirconium .
Fused with aeid potassic sulphate , the resulting* com-pound is readily soluble in cold water ; this excludes tantalum and niobium .
Evaporating to dryness with hydrochloric acid and heating for some time does not render the mass insoluble in water ; this excludes titanium and silioium .
It is easily soluble in an excess of a saturated solution of potassic sulphate ; this exeludes thorium , the cerium group , some of the numerous members of the yttrium group and zirconium .
The only remaining elements among which this elusive body would probably be found are those members of the !
yttrium family which are not precipitated by potassic sulphate .
The yttria earths form a somewhat numerous family .
Fortunately for chemists , a mineral rich in yttria earths\#151 ; samarskite\#151 ; has been i found lately in large quantity in Mitchell County , North Carolina , and to this mineral I accordingly now directed my attention .
The following list of elements , of the yttrium and its allied families said to occur in samarskite and similar minerals may be considered complete to the present time .
Name .
Absorption Hydrogen equivalent of metal.# spectrum .
k ( Type of oxide Cerium No M20 .
) 47 *1 Decipitim . .
# .
Yes K\lt ; 7 .A Didymium . . .
Yes AS .\#163 ; Didymium ( 3 . .
Yes . . .
\#151 ; ~ 47*0 Erbium Yes kk .q Uolmium ... . .
... . .
Yes Lanthanum . .
* No 48 *0 Mosandrum . . . . .
; . .
No 51 2 Samarium . . . .
, Yes . .
... ... .
50-0 Scandium ... . .
No 14 -7 Terbium ... ... . . . . .
No 49 *5 Thulium 58 *5 Vtterbium ... .
No 67 *9 Yttrium .
... . . .
No 29 *7 Yttrium \#171 ; No 52 2 Yttrium / 3 Yes ... 49*7 * As it is at present doubtful whether the oxides of several of the metals in this table belong to the type M20 , M2Q3 , or MO , I have , for the sake of uniformity and L883-J On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
267 Some of these claimants it is certain will not stand the test of f rther scrutiny .
Thus samarium and yttrium / 3 are in all probability dentical ; and I have not included philippiura , as Roscoe has conclu-1 'vely proved that this is a mixture of terbium and yttrium , and my own results confirm those of Roscoe .
Moreover , some of these so-called elements will probably turn out to be mixtures of other known elements .
But in the confessedly very imperfect state of our know-ledo-e of the chemistry of these metals it is not safe for me in this research to assume that any one of them will surely not survive .
The complete list as it stands will therefore be taken to contain all hitherto claimed as new , although it is almost certain to include too many .
In the second column " Yes " or " No " indicates whether the solutions give an absorption speotrum when examined by transmitted light .
After numerous experiments I satisfied myself that the metal givino- the citron band spectrum was not one of those giving an absorption spectrum .
The possible elements , therefore , became narrowed to the following list:\#151 ; Cerium , lanthanum , mosandrum , scandium , terbium , thorium , ytterbium , yttrium , yttrium \#171 ; , and zirconium . .
Of these the potassic sulphate reaction excludes cerium , lanthanum , scandium , thorium , yttrium and zirconium , so there are left only the following:\#151 ; Mosandrum , Terbium , Ytterbium , Yttrium .
Certain chemical reactions for a long time made me dismiss yttrium from the list of likely bodies .
In my analysis of zircons , towards the latter part of the process , I used the following process to separate the iron:\#151 ; The solution mixed with tartaric acid and excess of ammonia was allowed to stand for some time .
A small quantity of a precipitate gradually formed , which was filtered off , and it was this filtrate , after separating the iron with ammonic sulphide , that yielded the greatest quantity of substance giving the citron band .
Now one of the methods of separating yttria from alumina , beryllia , thoria , and zirconia is to precipitate it as tartrate in the presence of excess of ammonia , the other earths remaining in solution .
Fresenius says : ' The precipitation ensues only after some time , but it is complete .
The precipitate thus obtained with tartaric acid and ammonia should therefore contain all the yttria : it gave no citron band whatever in the radiant matter tube ; whilst the residue , which should be free from simplicity in calculating the values from the composition of their salts , by which these metals are chiefly discriminated , taken the type of oxide to be M^O .
Mr. W. Crookes .
[ May 3 ] yttna , proved for a long time the only source of material where wilt , to investigate the chemical properties of the body giving the citr spectrum .
Another reason which made me at this stage of the research nasc over yttria was that I had already tested this earth in the radiant matter tube .
In a paper on " Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua , read before the Royal Society , May 19 , 1881 , I said Yttria shows a dull greenish light , giving a continuous spectrum .
" For these reasons I for a long time omitted yttria from my list of possible bodies , and considered that the earth , if not a new one , might turn out to be either mosandra , terbia , or ytterbia .
About 15 lbs. weight of samarskite was worked up , partly by the hydrofluoric acid method of Lawrence Smith , and partly by fusion with potassic bisulphate .
These methods both gave as a result a large quantity of mixed earths containing most , if not all , the bodies enumerated in the fore-going list .
Tested in the radiant matter tube this mixture gave the citron spectrum very brilliantly. .
These earths were treated by a series of chemical processes too long and complicated to describe in this abstract , and the result of about five hundred fractional precipitations- gave me a mixture of earths having an H equivalent , M=48 , and showing a strong absorption spectrum 5 a mixture having an H equivalent , ]\1=33 , having no absorption spectrum ; and intermediate earths .
In the radiant matter tube all these fractions gave the citron band spectrum well , but that of the earth of lowest equivalent was much the brightest , and that of the highest equivalent the least intense .
Three methods are available for the partial separation of these earths and for the complete purification of any one of them .
The formic acid process is best for separating terbia , as terbic formate is difficultly soluble in water , the other formates being easily soluble .
Fractional precipitation with oxalic acid separates first erbia , holmia , and thulia , then terbia , and lastly yttria .
This is the only method which is applicable for the separation of small quantities of terbia from yttria .
Fusing the nitrates separates ytterbia , erbia , holmia , and thulia from yttria .
It is not so applicable when terbia is present , and is most useful in purifying the gadolinite earths .
This process is the only one known for separating ytterbia from yttria .
Selection must be made of these methods according to the mixture of earths under treatment , changing the method as one earth or the other becomes concentrated on one side or thrown out on the other .
Each operation must be repeated many times before even approximate purity is attained .
The operations are more analogous to the separation of membei 's of homologous series of hydrocarbons by fractional 1883 .
] On Radiant Matter .
269 distillation than to the separations in mineral chemistry as ordinarily adopted in the laboratory .
Pure terbia ignited with sulphuric acid and tested in the radiant matter tube shows no citron baud spectrum .
A concentrated solution of the purest terbia obtained in this way , when examined by the spectroscope , showed no absorption lines whatever : proving the absence of 'erbium , holmium , and thulium .
I did not attempt any separation of erbium , holmium , and thulium from each other , as the evidence obtained.was .
sufficient to show that the .-element giving the citron band spectrum was not one of these three metals .
Likewise I had far too little material .to enable me to enter on atwork of such difficulty with any prospect of success .
The rohemical characters of mosandra are so little known that 1 could mot attempt to search for it .
Put assthe citron band-forming earth always appeared , concentrated amongst those whose double sulphates were most soluble in potassic sulphate\#151 ; and , of -these , amongst those having the palest colour and lowest atomic .weight\#151 ; it was scarcely conceivable that the earth T -was in search of should ultimately prove to be one .whose properties did not in .any case correspond to these\#151 ; of a dark orange-yellow colour , forming a difficultly soluble double potassio sulphate , , and having the very high equivalent of M=\amp ; b2i ; these being the properties ascribed tomaosandra by the discoverer , Professor Lawrence Smith .
Ytterbia was prepared from gadolinite , 'as this mineral is said by Nilson to contain most vytterbia .
It was separated from accompanying earths by processes described in the paper .
The resulting earth gave at first : a faint citron hand spectrum , evidently due to .impurity ; on repeating the purification several times I .at last succeeded in obtaining a white .
earth which gave only the merest trace of citron band spectrum .
Its hydrogen equivalent , 58'0 , *and its chemical properties showed that it was probably Marignac 's ytterbia .
Subsequent experiments satisfied me that - .
this earth did not contain more than Tgooo part of yttria .
The extreme tediousness of the chemical operations necessary to obtain this high degree of purity , and the long time .they required , prevented me from pushing these i esults beyond what was neoessary to prove the .special point at issue .
The .ytferia , purified *as already described , might -still contain traces of terbia , together with erbia , holmia , and thulia .
These were gradually-removed by the fusing nitrate process .
The atomic weight gradually got down to 31'0 , -but the spectra did not vary very much ; that from the earth of lowest atomic weight being , however , the most brilliant .
Pure yttria is quite white .
That from gadolinite.on testing in the radiant matter tube gave a spectrum absolutely identical with that given by the zircon , cerite , thorite , orangite , and samarskite yttria .
\#166 ; ^70 On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
[ May n 1 Pure yttria was also prepared from yttro-tantalite , euxenite tvri+0 and also from plaster of Paris and common limestone In'noY* could I detect any difference in the position or intensity of the W shown by their phosphorescent spectra .
The Phosphorescent Spectrum of Yttria .
The spectrum shown by pure ignited yttric sulphate in a radiant matter tube is one of the most beautiful objects in the whole range of spectroscopy .
The spectrum is best seen under low dispersion an !
it not too narrow a slit .
It consists essentially of a broad red band an intensely brilliant citron band , and two almost equally brilliant greet s bands .
Other fainter lines are also seen , but they are not characteristic Coloured drawings and maps of the spectrum to scale accompany the paper .
This description applies to the spectrum shown either by pure yttric sulphate or by an earth tolerably rich in yttria .
When traces 1 are present the citron band only is seen .
A little more yttria brings out the first and then the second green band , and finally , as the pro* portion of yttria increases , the red and blue bands appear .
The paper next gives a description of experiments made with pure yttria , and with various compounds of it , to see which would give the most characteristic spectrum .
The .
sulphate heated to redness was found to give the best results .
Pure yttria precipitated by ammonia did not phosphoresce in the slightest degree , and , necessarily , no citron band spectrum was to be seen .
The yttria was removed from the tube , converted into sulphate , heated to redness , and again tested , i This time it gave the citron band magnificently .
This shows what apparently trivial circumstances will alter the whole course of an investigation .
In 1881 , when searching for discontinuous phosphorescent spectra , I tried a similar experiment with pure precipitated yttna , and entirely missed its citron band spectrum .
Had I first treated the yttria with sulphuric acid instead of testing the earth itself in the radiant matter tube the results would have been very different , and this research would probably have never been undertaken .
Yttria was now prepared by igniting the precipitated oxalate at a red heat .
On testing it in the radiant matter tube it phosphoresced with feeble intensity , the light being about one-twentieth of that given by the ignited sulphate under similar conditions .
The citron band was almost as sharp as the sodium line , and was shifted one division towards the blue end .
The two green bands were visible , but very hazy and indistinct , and only to be resolved into bands with difficulty .
It is an old and probably a true saying that every element could be detected everywhere had we sufficiently delicate tests for it .
Early observations had prepared me for the wide distribution of the element gg3 .
] Experiments upon the Heart of the Dog .
.iving the citron spectrum , and no sooner had the exquisite sensitive-ess of this spectrum test forced itself on my notice than I sought for ttrium .
in other minerals .
The facts which I had noticed in con-eXi0n with the variation of the appearance of the citron spectrum , ccording to the quantity of yttrium present , showed that it might be ossible to devise a process for the rough quantitative estimation of ttrium , and after several experiments a spectrum test was devised ufficiently delicate to detect one-millionth part of yttria in a mineral .
\ table is given showing the results of this quantitative spectrum Analysis , from which it is seen that amongst other substances a specimen if coral contains one part of yttrium in 200 parts ; strontianite , one \gt ; art of yttrium in 500 parts ; chondrodite , from Mount Somma , one \gt ; art in 4,000 ; calcite , one part in 10,000 ; ox hone , one part in .0,000 ; an earthy meteorite ( Alfianello ) , one part in 100,000 ; and .obacco ash , one part in 1,000,000 .
The following Paper was read:\#151 ; 'Experiments upon the Heart of the Dog with reference to the Maximum Volume of Blood sent out by the Left Ventricle in a Single Beat , and the Influence of Variations in Venous Pressure , Arterial Pressure , and Pulse Rate upon the Work done by the Heart .
" By William H. Howell , A.B. , Fellow of the Johns Hopkins University , and F. Donaldson , Jr. , A.B. Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. ( Abstract .
) Owing to the indirectness of the methods hitherto used for estimating the quantity of blood pumped out from the left ventricle at each systole , this important factor in all calculations of the work done by the heart has never been satisfactorily determined .
Of the later physiologists who have investigated the subject , Volkmann and afterwards Vierordt , from calculations based upon the mean velocity of the stream of blood in the unbranched aorta , obtained the fraction \#163 ; 7ro as representing the ratio of the average weight of blood ejected at each systole of the left ventricle to the weight of the whole body .
Fick , from data obtained by placing the arm in a plethysmograph , and estimating the velocity of the stream of blood in the axillary artery from the increase in volume of the whole arm at each systole of the heart , arrived at a much smaller fraction , about xoVo\gt ; f'r the ratio between the weight of blood thrown out at each systole and the body-weight .

