1888 .
] On the First and Second Visceral Arches .
143 The shoulder-girdle is described and restored , and found to consist of interclavicle , clavicles , sternum , coracoids , pre-coracoids , and scapula ? .
The scapula is in plan like Kistecephalus .
The nearest approach to the coracoid and pre-coracoid is found among the mono-treme mammals .
The clavicle extended along the anterior margin of the scapula , and made an angular bend , so as probably to meet the interclavicle .
The interclavicle appears to meet the lateral margins of the coracoids and not to overlap them in front .
It approximates in form to the bone in Ornithorhynchus , , and certain lizards , but is relatively much larger , and is larger than the interclavicle of Stereorachis .
The sternum , which is transversely extended , is better compared with that of a lizard or Dinosaur .
The shoulder-girdle as a whole is intermediate between monotreme mammals and known reptiles , but with the former type predominating .
The bones of the fore-limb are described in detail , and found to be relatively long and slender and generically unlike Dicynodon .
The carpus is complicated .
There are only two phalangeal bones in each digit , the second bone being a well-developed claw .
Finally a restoration is given of the aspect of the animal .
VII .
" On the Modifications of the First and Second Visceral Arches , with especial Reference to the Homologies ol the Auditory Ossicles .
" By Hans Gadow , Ph. D. , M.A. , Strickland Curator and Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received April 12 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The phylogenetic development of the first visceral arches shows us some most interesting changes of function , which we can follow upwards from the lower Selachians to the highest Mammals .
Originally entirely devoted to respiration as gill-bearing structures , the whole hyoidean arch becomes soon a factor in the alimentary system .
Its proximal half forms the hinge of the masticatory apparatus , its distal half remains henceforth connected with the process of deglutition .
Then this suspensorial arrangement is superseded by a new modification ; the hyomandibula is set free and would disappear ( it does nearly do so in Dipnoi and certain Urodela ) , unless it were made use of for a new function ; with its having entered the service of the conduction of sound , it has entered upon a new departure , and it is saved from degeneration .
The whole system of the one to four elements of the middle ear , which all have the same function as conductors of sound , is to be looked upon as one organ of one common VOL. XL1V .
l 144 On the First and Second Visceral Arches .
[ Apr. 26 , origin , namely , as a modification of the hyomandibula , the primitive proximal paramere of the second visceral arch .
Successive Modifications of the Mandibular and Hyoidean Visceral Arches .
I. Primitive condition ( Notidanidee ) .
The palato-qnadrate bar alone carries the mandible .
The second arch is indifferent .
Hyomandibula and quadrate ( the palatine part is an outgrowth ) are both attached to the cranium .
II .
The hyomandibula gains a fibro-cartilaginous connexion with the mandible , the masticatory apparatus becomes ampbistylic and occasionally hyostylic ( Rajidae , most Selachians ) .
The hyoid gains a cranial attachment ( many Rajidae ) .
III .
The quadrate- or autostylic suspensorium becomes preponderant ; the hyomandibula is , as in Teleosteans , divided into a proximal and into a distal ( symplectic ) element .
The proximal part is received into a fenestra of the otic capsule , and is converted into a stapes , whilst the distal half either remains ( Prote , Siren , or is lost ( other Urodela ) .
The whole hyomandibula would have been lost owing to its excalation from suspensorial functions , unless it had entered the auditory service .
IY .
The autostylic arrangement prevails .
The whole hyomandibula remains , gains an attachment on the " tympanum , " and differentiates itself into several con jointed pieces , notably stapes or columella proper , and estra-columella or malleus .
The extra-columella gains connexion with the parotic cartilage ; this connexion frequently remains , but in alone it contains a special element of probably parotic origin .
The quadrate forms an important part of the tympanic frame .
Wa .
Collateral departure of the Anura .
The connexion between the tympanal part of the hyomandibula with the mandible is lost .
V. The quadrate still forms the principal suspensorial part of the mandible .
The extra-columella , or malleus , retains for a long time its previously acquired connexion with Meckel 's cartilage ( Amniota ) .
Ya .
The top end of the hyoid is attached to the cranium ( , Mammalia ) , and is occasionally fused with the extra-columella ( Hatteria ) .
Vb .
Or , the proximal portion of the hyoid is removed from the skull and remains otherwise well developed ( most Lizards ) ' , or its proximal portion becomes reduced and lost ( Ghe , Grocodilia , Ophidia , Aves ) .
Yc .
The extra-columella gains an attachment to the quadrate , squamosal , or pterygoid , whilst its connexion with the mandible ( Ophidia , Ghamceleon ) , and the tympanum , is lost .
YI .
The quadrate gradually loses its articulation with the mandible ; the latter gains a new outer articulation with the squamosal ; Presents .
1888 .
] the quadrate acts almost entirely as a tympanic frame .
Incus and malleus fuse sometimes with each other , and lean on to the parotic region .
The masticatory joint is doubly concave-convex VII .
The quadrate is converted into the principal part of the tympanic frame , viz. , annulus tympanicus .
The mandible has lost its articulation with the quadrate , and the masticatory joint is a single concave-convex one , the convexity belonging to the mandible ( - delphia ) .
Presents , April 26 , 1888 .
Transactions .
Bern:\#151 ; 1STaturforschende Gesellschaft .
, Mittheilungen .
1887 .
8vo .
Bern 1888 .
The Society .
Kew :\#151 ; Royal Gardens .
Bulletin .
1888 .
No. 16 .
8vo .
London .
The Director .
London:\#151 ; Royal Institute of British Architects .
Journal of Proceedings .
Vol. IV .
No. 12 .
4to .
London 1888 .
The Institute .
Royal Meteorological Society .
Quarterly Journal .
Vol. XIV .
No. 65 .
8vo .
London 1888 ; The Meteorological Record .
Vol. VII .
No. 27 .
8vo .
London [ 1888 ] ; List of Fellows .
1888 .
8vo .
The Society .
Royal Microscopical Soqiety .
Journal .
1888 .
Part 2 .
8vo .
London .
The Society .
Royal Statistical Society .
Journal .
Vol , LI .
Part 1 .
8vo .
London 1888 .
The Society .
University of London .
Calendar .
1888\#151 ; 9 .
8vo .
London .
The University .
Zoological Society .
Proceedings .
1887 .
Part 4 .
8vo .
London 1888 ; Transactions .
Vol. XII .
Part 7 .
4to London 1888 .
The Society .
Madrid:\#151 ; Real Academia de Ciencias .
Memorias , Tomo XII , 8vo .
Madrid 1887 ; Revista de los Progresos de las Ciencias .
Tomo XXII .
No. 4 .
8vo .
Madrid 1887 ; Anuario .
1888 .
12mo .
Madrid 1888 .
The Academy .
Paris:\#151 ; Societe Philomathique .
Bulletin .
Tome XII .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Paris 1888 .
The Society .
Rome:\#151 ; R. Comitato Geologico d'ltalia .
Bollettino .
No. 1\#151 ; 2 .
8vo .~IloYna1888 .
The Comitato .
Switzerland:\#151 ; SchweizerischeNaturforschende Gesellschaft .
Ver-handlungen .
Jahresbericht 1886-87 .
8vo .
Frauenfeld 1887 ; Count Rendu des Travaux de la Societe Helvetique des Sciences Naturelles reunie a Frauenfeld , 1887 .
8vo .
Geneve .
The Society .

