On an easier Mode of procuring Potassium than that which is now adopted .
By Smithson Tenant , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 23 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 578 .
] The process originally discovered and described by Messrs. GayLussac and Thenard for obtaining potassium by means of iron , requires that the iron should at first be intensely heated , and afterwards that the alkali should be applied to it in the heated state .
For this purpose a gun-barrel is required of such a length as to pass through a furnace purposely constructed , having at its extremity a second short portion of barrel neatly fitted to it by grinding , for the purpose of containing the alkali ; and from which it may be made to flow by means of a separate fire , to be applied by the attendant operator at such a stage of the process , and at such a rate , as is judged to be most advantageous .
Since in this method , though the alkaliis , in fact , soon mixed with the iron , the process nevertheless requires the heat to be continued for nearly an hour , the author conceived that nearly the same effect might be produced merely by mixing the same ingredients previously , and distilling them in the following simple apparatus .
A straight gun-barrel , coated well at its lower part with Stourbridge clay , is filled to about one half its length with a mixture of iron turnings and potash .
Into the upper half of this barrel is inserted a smaller and thinner tube of iron , contracted at its lower extremity to a small orifice , sufficient to admit the vapour of potassium to pass , and of such a length that its upper extremity may project a little beyond the end of the gun-barrel ; and then both are covered at the same time by a cap , which fits the gun-barrel sufficiently to be closed with cement .
In the top of this cap is a cork , with a tube of safety for passage of gas that escapes during the operation .
The advantage of the inner tube , in which the potassium is received , consists not merely in the facility with which the product is withdrawn , but in preventing an admixture of potash , with which it is otherwise liable to be contaminated .

