]\gt ; III .
On and Dissociation.\mdash ; Part III .
A Stndy the Properties of Ethyl Oxide .
WILLIAM RAMSAY , Ph. D. , and SYDNEY YOUNG , D.Sc .
by ofessor G. G. STOKES , D. C.L. , P.R. Received Apri123.\mdash ; Read May 20 , 1886 .
[ PLATES 6-10 .
] IN a memoir published in the Royal Society 's 'Philosophical Transactions , ' 1886 ( Part I p. 123 , " " On the Thermal Properties of Ethyl Alcohol we gave the results of a research on the vapour-pressures of alcohol , the densities of its vapour\mdash ; both unsaturated and saturated\mdash ; and the expansion and compressibility of liquid alcohol at various temperatures ; and from these data were deduced the amourJts of heat required to vaporize alcohol at those temperatures .
Our object in these researches has been to compare carefully the behaviour of stable with that of unstable bodies , and , if possible , to acquire some clear ideas of the nature of chemical combination .
But , as the properties of stable bodies are still to a great extent unknown , we have deemed it advisable to extend onr research with the view of investigating this relationship ; and for that purpose we have made a similar series of moasurements of the thermal constants of ethyl oxide .
The data , and the deductions from the data , are the subject of the following memoir .
Experiments on the vapour-pressure , vapour-density , expansion , and other properties of ether have been made by REGNAULT , KOPP , PIERRE , MENDELEJEFF , AVENARIUS , and others , and their results shall be quoted when necessary .
of Pure Ether .
A quantity of absolute alcohol was converted into ether by means of sulphuric acid in the usual way .
The distillate was first shaken up with caustic soda , to remove sulphurous anhydride , and was redistilled .
In order to remove a great part of the alcohol in the Jate , it was allowed to stand over calcium chloride , and again distilled .
It was then repeatedly shaken with water to remove the last traces of alcohol , and it was then again dried with calcium chloride and distilled .
The distillate was cohobated with metallic sodium until gas ceased to be evolved ; it was then distilled from the sodium , and left in contact with clean , fresh sodium for many months .
It was again distilled , and was found to boil with absolute constancy at at a pressure of ' millims. The thermometer used was graduated in -XVII.\mdash ; A. 1 ) To find weight of ether employed , the graduated tube was jacketed with the vapour of alcohol , boiling under atmospheric pressure .
For lower temperatures the tube was surrounded with flowing water .
constants at high temperatures were ascertained by help of the apparatus employed in our research on alcohol , which will now be described .
The body of the apparatus consists of a wrought-iron tube , firmly fixed in a horizontal position by being clamped in a vice .
As in ANDREWS'S apparatus , one end is closed by a cap , through which an iron screw passes , the joint being made tight by a packing of greased leather in which the screw works , passing through the interior of an india-rubber cork , which closely fits the cap. On screwing on the cap , the india-rubber is compressed , so that very high pressure can be withstood without leakage .
The iron tube has no opening at the other end , but is provided with three vertical branches , , and , closed in a similar manner by iron caps , through which the uges and the experimental tube pass .
The gauge is intended for registering high pressures , and for low pressures .
To the open end of is sealed a glass reservoir , of known capacity , while is a plain tube , icted at one end .
These , and also the experimental tube , which is also constricted at its open end , dip into clean , distilled mercury , filling the iron tube ] etely .
The gauges are jacketed by narrow glass tubes , through which water flows ; the temperature of the water was registered by a small thermometer , placed in the stream , immediately after passage through the gauges .
It was found by experiment that , with a rapid current , the temperature did not rise sensibly during its passage .
The experimental tube is fitted with a jacket , in the bulb of which a liquid boiled under known pressure ( ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , 'vol .
47 , p. 640 ) .
The experimental tube passes through a perforated india-rubber cork , closing the jacket , and protected from the action of the condensed hot liquid by a layer of mercury K. The top of the jacket is furnished with a small condenser , to prevent escape of vapour .
The pressure under which the pure liquid was boiling was read by means of a gauge and barometer .
The experimental tube was filled with ether by fitting with help of a ring cut from india-rubber tube , mto the end of the tube ( fig. 3 ) .
This tube is bent to an obtuse angle , and widened into a bulb at B. On the further side of there is a tight stopcock C. Into the bulb is introduced some pure mercury and a quantit of quantity the there , much more than .
sufficient to the experimental tube .
By warming the experlmental tube some expelled ; the ether in the bulb is then boiled on the surface of the mercury , the pcock being open .
When vapour freely escapes the stopcock is closed , .
and the tube held in such a manner that ether covers the en pes end of the experlmental tube .
The latter is again warmed , and the ether which enters on cooling , ls boiled .
The experimental tube , being at a hi her tem than the boiling-point of ether under the reduced pressure , li uid ether trickli ger emperature down it , is at once gasified and carries with it all air , and a series of bubbl qu eer , rapidly through the ether in the bulb .
When it is judged that all air is expelled ubbleS ON EVAPORATION AND DISSOCIATION .
the experimental tube is cooled , and ether rushes in to fill it .
It is easy to make sure , by the absence of a bubble , of complete expulsion of air .
The tube is then tilted , so that mercury covers the end of the experimental tube , and a portion of the latter is warmed .
The ether boils off through the mercury , and , on cooling , its place is occupied by mercury .
By tapping , the column of mercury may be made to descend to any desired point .
When quite cold , the experimental tube is disconnected , placed in the iron cap , and gently warmed , so as to cause a globule of mercury to hang to its constricted open end .
It is then plunged ) the surface of the mercury in the branch of the iron tube , and the cap is screwed tight .
From this description it will be noticed that all possibihty of the presence of air in the liquid to be experimented on is completely excluded ; and our results prove that this was the case , for the readings of vapour-pressure at different volumes of gas and liquid give , for the same temperature , absolutely identical results .
Fig. 3 .
It was thus possible to alter volume by means of the screw ; to read pressules accurately by the use of the high and low pressure gauges , the readings of which were compared when possible ; and to secure constant known temperatures by means of the vapour-jacket .
EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS .
1 .
-pressures at Low Calibration of Therrnometer.\mdash ; The thermometer employed was a new one by NEGRETTI and ZAMBRA , divided into tenths of a degree , and registering from .
The zero.point at the atmospheric pressure was .
The bulb was immersed in mercury , contained in a vessel from which air could be exhausted by means of a CARRt'S pump .
Unless the bulb is dipped in mercury , the temperature it registers is altered by the cooling of the air by exhaustion , or heating by compression ; the mercury serves to keep the temperature constant .
It was found that the temperaThe formula which REGNAULT employed in his extensive research on vapourpressures was suggested by BIor .
It is The concordance between the found and calculated pressures through a range of temperatures so great as from to ls shows how well this formula interprets the facts .
The constants employed were calculated from the observations at , and .
The numbers directly read were , however , not taken ; but small portions of the curve about these points were previously smoothed by means of the siml ) formula The constants for the ]arger formula are ; and are both negative .
The greatest difference , calculated as temperature between the found and calculated results between and , is ; but above the difference increases graduaJly , amounting to at ; but , indeed , it is doubtful whether any formula can be expected to hold in the immediate neighbourhood of the critical point .
The vapour-pressures of ether were measured between and 12 by REGNAULT ; though his results agree with ours at certain temperatures , yet there on the whole , considerable crepancy ; and , in our opinion , he himself furnishes the explanation .
In only one case was the specimen of ether used by him purified from alcohol by repeated shaking with water ; and this specimen appears to have been used only in determining the specific heat of the vapour .
He points out that after standing much lower vapour-pressures were obtained than with ] distilled ether ; for instance , at his calculated number is mms .
In the ffist series , in which the ether had been ] from calcium chloride , the pressure at was 181.7 mms .
, corresponding to mms .
at .
In the third series the same ether had stood for a year , and was redistilled over lime before experiment .
The vapour-pressure at was mms .
The same quantity of ether was again allowed to stand in sealed flasks , and on redetermining the vapour-pressnre after six months it had fallen to mms .
, and after three months more to mms .
REGNAULT states that the chemical composition was unaltered , and that the alteration was of a physical nature ; but LIEBEN Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
states that pure ether , either alone , or contact with potash , lime , or sodium , does not change on standing ; but that the presence of water , fused sodium chloride , calcium chloride , or anhydrous ON EVAPORATION AND DISSOCIATION .
copper lphate induces a change , the liquid the reaction .
We have little doubt , therefore , that the specimen of ether used by REGNAULT alcohol ; and it is known from Professor GUTHRIE'S that the presence of a minute amount of an impurity has a great influence on -pressures .
A further argument in support of this view will be given when we consider the heats of yaporisation .
It should here be pointed out , moreoyer , that REGNAULT'S obseryations below agree nearly as well with our formula as with his own , whereas our obseryations are in very close accordance with our calculated results .
II .
Compressibilities.\mdash ; The isothermals of the liquid state , showing decrease in volume with increase of pressure , were , for the purpose of smoothing , plotted on a sheet of curye-paper , and isobars were drawn representing the relations of volume.to temperature .
The discrepancies of indiyidual obseryations were thus eliminated , and from the isobars the numbers were retransferred to the isotherms .
It will be seen on inspection of the curves ( Plate 6 ) that the smoothed curyes agree well with the observations .
The Table which follows shows these results , and includes some of the isotherms corresponding to the gaseous state .
The volumes are those of 1 gramme .
pROFESSOR W. RAMSAY AND DR S YOUNG These results are phically shown on Plate 7 .
The curves were smoothed by constructing others showing the relations between temperature and pressure at equal vapour-densities , and then transferring back to the ollglnal sheet of curve paper .
It can be judged by the position of the circles how nearly he observations agree with the smoothed curves .
IV .
Heats of the thermodynamic e.quation , the heats of vaporisation at definite intervals of temperature were calculated .
The values of the expression were calculated in the following manner .
By means of the formula , the vapour-pressures at one-tenth of a degree above and below the definite temperature were calculated , and the difference was multiplied by 5 to obtain the values for 1o This method gives results as nearly correct as it is possible to obtain .
The pressures were reduced to grammes per square centimetre , and the value of taken as 42,500 .
The heats of vaporisation have been determined by other observers ; BRIX Annalen , gives deterininations of the heats of vaporlsation of water , alcohol , and ether .
Translating Reaumur into Centigrade degrees , that of water becomes calories ; of alcohol , 214.25 calories ; and of ether , calories .
Determinations were next made by ANDREWS Chem. Soc. Journ vol. 1 , 1849 , p. 27 ) , found 90.5 calories .
The sample of ether he employed ON yAPORATION AND DISSOCIATION .
boiled at at 752 mms .
pressure .
FAVRE and SILBERMANN found ] ories Annals imie , .
EGNAULT ( ' Memoires de l'Acad6mie , ' vol. , p. 881 gives a formula for calculating the total heat of vaporisation from ; it is where From this formula the heat of vaporisation at calories , but for higher temperatures the specific heat of ether is required , for calculating which he gives the formula where is the total quantity of heat required to raise 1 .
of ether from to ; ; and .
Four experiments were made , of which the results of only three were employed in calculating the COIlstants , although the ' fourth experiment was moderately concordant with the others ; the was only from to .
Taking into ation the small number of expe iments , and the not very close agreement between the result of the second experiment and the value calculated from the formula calculated , observed , , it is doubtful whether these constants would hold good for ratures much higher than REGNAULT made two series of experiments , of which there were seven observations in the first and four in the second , on the heats of vaporisation of ether .
The ether employed in the first series was purified by the ordinary methods , and distilled from time to time with lime to temove acids and water .
In the second series , including experiments at very low , the ether was purified " " with the greatest care and kept in a stoppered flask .
Nevertheless , on distillation , a quantity of less volatile liquid remained , having , as he states , the percentage composition of ether .
This modification , according to him , is absent from ether recently distilled , but forms after some months ( see remarks on p. 82 ) .
In the second series the weight of the residual liquid in the calorimeter was always subtracted from the total weight , tlJe liquid having been distilled from the calorimeter .
The following Table gives the individual results of REGNAULT'S experiments , and also the total heats at the same temperatures , calculated by means of his formula .
The first four experiments vere made ith the carefully purified ether .
From some of these the heats of vaporisation were calculated by help of the formula given for calculating specific heats .
HEATS of Vaporisation .
Temperature .
90.53 Temperature .
90.53 It is noticeable that the agreement between REGNAULT'S observed and calculated numbers is much less good at low than at high temperatures , with the exception of the first at ; and , as the four first determinations were made with the purest sample , more stress has been ] by REGNAULT on his observations with the less pure than with the purer ether .
The heats of vaporisation thus calculated are widely different from the results obtained by us , with single exception of that at the lowest temperature ; but it is also remarkable that the individual experiments with the purer substance exhibit much closer concordance with our results .
As the results about the temperature by all observers exhibit fairly close agreement with the observations of REGNAULT , but differ widely from our calculated values , it appeared desirable to submit them to proof by translating results into vapour-densities ; and for this purpose the values of were calculated by means of BIOT'S formula , using REGNAULT'S constants .
By thus doing , the work is entirely REGNAULT'S .
The results are in the following Tabl As the minimum value of the yapour-density of ether is 37 , the first three results are impossible ; and , on consulting the Table on p. 64 , giving the results of our measure- ments at , and Table 58 , p. 80 , it will be seen that the density of the saturated vapour lses to at , and At the -density read from the curve is ON EVAPORATION AND DISSOCIATION .
Our results also receive confirmation from a number of experiments by HORSTMANN ( ' LIEBIG'S Annalen , ' Suppl. 6 , 1868 , p. 63 ) , which , although not very concordant with each other , yet amply suffice to prove that the vapour-density is not constant .
and that , therefore , .
is variable .
It follows from the Table already given that , if REGNAULT'S results are correct , the thermo-dynamical formula does not always hold ; the same discordance was noticed in his observations with alcohol .
It is possible , assuming the impurity in REGNAULT'S ether to have been alcohol , which is not unlikely , inasmuch as no mention is made of the sample of ether having been purffied by washing with water , to calculate the percentage which must have been present in order to raise the heat of vaporisation from , calculated by us , to calculated from RrGNAULT'S formulae ; it is per cent. , and an analysis of such a mixture would give per cent. of carbon , instead of per cent. contained pure ether .
This does not , however , account for the composition of the high-boiling residue , which , if alcohol , should have contained per cent. of carbon .
From experiments it is noticeable that with ether , although the density of the saturated vapour is very abnormal , even more so than with alcohol , yet there is no tendency towards a rise with decrease of temperature .
It therefore seems probable that , for the same reasons which were stated in the memoir on alcohol , combination of gaseous molecules to form complex molecules does not take place .
It is impossible to state accurately the temperature , pressure , and volume of any substance at the critical point ; but the numbers may be regarded as closely approximate for ether:\mdash ; Temperature Pressure 27,060 mms .
atmospheres , Volume probably cub. centims. for 1 gramme .
APPENDIX .
Received February 2 , 1887 .
Since the foregoing memoir was read , it appeared to us of importance , in consequence of some theoretical deductions , a short account of which has been communicated to the Society by Professor STOKES , to make fresh determinations of the relations between volume , temperature , and pressure of ether at higher temperatures and greater pressures than we had formerly employed .
For these experiments a fresh stock of ether was prepared ; the volume tube was new ; and the air-gauges were refilled .
The weight was not determined directly , but was ascertained by comparison with our previous results at ] It was gramme .

