370 Mr. G. Massee .
On Gasterolichenes .
[ June 16 , Efflorescent and tabular kreatinins may be obtained from this hydrochloride , resembling in crystalline form and percentage composition those derived from the natural hydrochloride , but exhibiting some important differences .
Thus the platinum salt of the artificial tabular kreatinin requires nearly twice as much water to dissolve it as that of the natural base at the same temperature .
Both the natural and artificial kreatinins form well-crystallised gold salts .
The gold salt of the natural kreatinin is unchanged by ether , but that of the artificial base is decomposed thereby , the kreatinin hydrochloride separating out , and the auric chloride passing into solution .
Finally the artificial kreatinins are less powerful reducing agents than the natural base .
4 mols .
of the natural kreatinins are equivalent to 2 mols .
of glucose .
5 mols .
of the artificial kreatiuins are equivalent to 2 mols .
of glucose in reducing action .
Therefore artificial kreatinins must not be compared with the natural base as to their reducing action .
Note added 13th May , 1887 .
Professor W. N. Hartley has observed a marked difference in the absorption spectra of the natural kreatinin of urine , and of an artificial kreatinin obtained by the author from flesh kreatin .
IX .
" On Gasterolichenes , a New Type of the Group By G. Massee .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , F.R.S. Received May 5 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) In the greater number of Lichenes , the fungal constituent belongs to the section Ascomycetes , characterised by having the spores produced in asci .
Recently a second group of Lichenes has been described , and called Hymenolichenes , in which the fungus belongs to the Hymenomycetous Basidiomycetes , and closely related to the genera Gorticium and Stereum .
In the present communication , a third type of lichen structure is described , in which the fungus belongs to the order Gasteromycetes , or puff-balls .
Gasterolichenes is the name suggested for this group , which consists of two genera , JEmericella , Berk .
, and Tricliocoma , Jungh .
, hitherto described as fungi .

