549 1886 .
] On the Gaseous Constituents of Meteorites .
Table III.\#151 ; Relative Hardness or Penetrability of Ice at various Temperatures .
m \#166 ; IBM \#166 ; \#166 ; 1 m \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; i \#166 ; B i \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; 1 15 HI |\gt ; \#166 ; Si SB M SB 1 i Ml in SB \#166 ; 1 H i Si \#166 ; \#166 ; B !
Is \#166 ; \#166 ; B IBI II SB a IBI H | B| Ml \#166 ; B ii SB IBBI II \#166 ; i BB IM \#166 ; i m II \#166 ; i IHH \#166 ; i il IMMI Ei gfl B IBIS HI mi nil mi \#166 ; i BB \#166 ; in Ml The steel rod penetrated at \#151 ; 35 ' F. 0*043 in .
, and at zero F. 0*094 in .
results are given in Table III .
These are the average of very many observations .
The ice appeared practically to maintain its almost impenetrable hardness from \#151 ; 35 ' F. until about +10 ' to 20 ' F. , after which its power of resistance to the penetration of the steel rod rapidly decreased with the increase of temperature .
It will also be noticed that the relative contraction and dilatation of the ice between the extremes of low temperature employed was considerable .
The whole of the experiments were many times repeated to ensure accuracy , and it may he observed that above 20 tons of snow and above 7 tons of salts for freezing mixtures , \amp ; c. , were consumed in conducting the varied experiments of the investigation .
XIII .
" On the Gaseous Constituents of Meteorites .
" By Gerrard Ansdell , F.C.S. , and Prof. James Dewar , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1886 .
The nature of the occluded gases which are present to a greater or less extent in all meteorites , whether belonging to the iron , stony , or carbonaceous classes , has engaged the attention of but few chemists .
It is , nevertheless , an especially interesting and important subject , owing to the uncertainty which still exists as to the origin of these celestial bodies .
Graham ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 15 ( 1867 ) , p. 502 , was the first who made any experiments in this direction , when he determined the gases occluded in the Lenarto meteoric iron , which yielded 2*85 times its volume of gas , 86 per cent , of which was hydrogen , and 4*5 per 550 Mr. Gr .
Ansdell and Prof. J. Dewar .
[ June 10 , cent , carbonic oxide .
He was followed in 1872 by Wohler ( " Pogg .
Ann. , " vol. 146 , p. 297 ) and Berthelot ( " Compt .
rend .
, " vol. 74 , pp. 48 , ' 119 ) , who estimated approximately the gases contained in the Greenland Ovifak iron .
These gases consisted of about equal parts of carbonic acid and carbonic oxide ; the celestial origin of this iron is , however , very , doubtful .
In the same year ( 1872 ) the American chemist , Mallet ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 20 , p. 365 ) , made a very complete determination of the gases occluded by the Augusta Co. , Virginia , meteoric iron , which , however , differed very considerably from Graham 's results .
He obtained an amount of gas equal to 3*17 times the volume of the iron , made up of 35*83 per cent , of hydrogen , 38*33 per cent , carbonic oxide , 9*75 per cent , of carbonic acid , and 16*09 per cent , of nitrogen .
Wright and Lawrence Smith followed Mallet , and our present knowledge of this interesting subject is principally due to these American chemists .
They have taken advantage of the numerous meteoric masses which have fallen from time to time throughout America , and which can easily be obtained in sufficient quantity for complete and accurate observations on their gaseous constituents .
Wright contributed several papers to the " American Journal " in 1875 andil876 , and , according to his analyses , the total volume of gas occluded and the composition of the same differs considerably in the two principal classes of meteorites .
He found the total volume of gas extracted was much greater in the case of the stony meteorites than in the iron ones , the principal characteristics of these gases being , that in the former the carbonic acid greatly predominated , accompanied by a comparatively small amount of carbonic oxide and hydrogen , whereas in the latter the carbonic acid never exceeded 20 per cent. , the carbonic oxide being , as a rule , considerably more than this , and the hydrogen sometimes reaching as high as 80 per cent. It is impossible , however , to arrive at anything more than general conclusions as to the total amount of gas given off by any special meteorite , or its composition , for , as shown by Wright and confirmed by ourselves , both the total quantity and composition of the gases vary very considerably according to the temperature at which they are drawn off .
Wright found a notable quantity of marsh-gas in all the stony meteorites which he examined , though not a trace in any of the iron ones ; this seemed to be a distinctive difference between the two classes of meteorites , but subsequently Dr. Flight , of the British Museum ( " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 173 ( 1882 ) , p. 885 ) , found marsh-gas in a specimen of the Cranbourne si derite , so that it is evident certain of the iron meteorites also contain this gas .
Lawrence Smith ( " Amer .
Journ. , " 1876 ) confined himself principally to an examination of the graphite nodules which are frequently 1886 .
] On the Gaseous Constituents of Meteorites .
551 found imbedded in the iron meteorites , and to the nature of the carbon in the so-called carbonaeeous meteorites .
He extracted the organic or hydrocarbon-like bodies by means of ether , but did not determine the gases given off on heating .
Previous to this , Roscoe ( " Pro .
Phil. Soc. Man .
, " 1862 ) had obtained the same hydrocarbonlike body by ethausting the Alais meteorite with ether , but the quantity he had to work upon was so small that he could not make a very complete examination .
These are some of the principal points that have been made out with regard to the gases occluded by meteorites .
The results , however , are so comparatively few , that we thought it worth while to take the opportunity which presented itself , of having several good specimens of meteorites at our disposal , to confirm these results , and , if possible , add something to our present knowledge of the subject .
The investigation may be divided into five parts , having the following objects in view : firstly , the confirmation of previous results by the examination of some well-known meteorite ; secondly , the analysis of several whole meteoric stones , whose interior had never been exposed to the effects of the atmosphere , by reason of the characteristic coating of glaze ; thirdly , the examination of a celestial graphite nodule , taken from the interior of an iron meteorite ; fourthly , the comparison of some meteorite of the carbonaceous class with the above ; and , fifthly , the examination of different terrestrial graphites .
The method employed for the abstraction of the gases was exactly the same in every case , so that a short description will suffice for all .
The temperature was kept as nearly as possible the same in every experiment , but no doubt differences of many degrees occurred in some of the experiments , which was unavoidable in using an ordinary combustion furnace .
The meteorite or graphite , as the case might be , was broken up into a coarse powder , introduced into a convenient length of combustion tubing , and connected up with a Sprengel pump , a small bulb-tube immersed in a freezing mixture intervening , so as to retain any moisture or condensable volatile products that might come off .
The tube was first thoroughly exhausted and then heated in an ordinary gas combustion furnace to a low red heat .
The gases , during the heating , were gradually drawn off by the Sprengel , and when the tube had remained for several minutes at a low red heat it was completely exhausted .
The total quantity of gas collected was in every case used for the analysis .
The " Dhurmsala " specimen was an ordinary fragment of a much larger original mass , but in the case of the Pultusk and Mocs meteorites , we were fortunate in obtaining complete stones , weighing respectively 57 and 103 grams , having the characteristic black glaze on their surfaces .
552 Mr. G. Ansdell and Prof. J. Dewar .
[ June 10 , Such a large quantity of water was condensed in the bulb tube in heading the Dhurmsala meteorite , it being the first one examined , that it was thought it might be principally due to the great absorptive power of these porous bodies , and that therefore the moisture might have been condensed in the pores of the meteorite from the surrounding air .
The Pultusk and Mocs specimens appeared to be especially adapted for ascertaining whether this was the case , as the complete covering of black glaze would probably prevent the moisture from penetrating to the interior of the stones .
The fragments of these stones were therefore transferred as quickly as possible to the combustion tube after they had been broken up .
Notwithstanding these precautions , fully as much water was condensed from them as from the Dhurmsala specimen , which seems to suggest that the water is really combined in some form in the stone and not obtained directly from the surrounding atmosphere , although it must be admitted that the glaze on both the stones was not of a very glossy character , and did not have the appearance of being absolutely impervious to moisture .
The pumice-stone was examined merely with a view to comparing the gases occluded by a porous body of volcanic origin with those contained in meteorites .
The sample taken was a fresh piece of stone , which had not been dried or purified in any way .
It is evident that it differs considerably from the meteoric stones , the total occluded gas being very small , only about half its volume , the carbonic acid at the same time being much less with a proportionate increase in the carbonic oxide .
The general method of analysis was as follows , and the accuracy of the results was confirmed by varying in some cases the method of separating the gases .
The carbonic acid was first removed from the mixture by caustic potash , the carbonic oxide being then absorbed by subchloride of copper , and the remainder of the gases exploded with excess of oxygen .
The carbonic acid formed was again removed by caustic potash , and the excess of oxygen by alkaline pyrogallate , the residue being taken as nitrogen .
The relative quantities of marsh-gas and hydrogen were calculated from the total diminution after explosion , and the amount of carbonic acid formed :\#151 ; Sp. gr. Occluded gases in yoIs .
of the meteorite .
Percentage composition .
co2 .
CO. H. .
ch4 .
N. Dhurmsala ... .
3 175 2 *51 63-15 1 -31 28-48 3*9 1-31 Pultusk 3 718 3 -54 66 12 5-40 18-14 7*65 2 -69 Mocs 3-67 1 *94 64-50 3-90 22 -94 4*41 3-67 Pumice-stone. .
2-50 0*55 39 -50 18-50 25 4 .\#151 ; 16-60 1886 .
] On the Gaseous Constituents of Meteorites .
553 It will be seen that the above numbers are quite confirmatory of Wright 's results , the carbonic acid in the three meteorites examined being by far the largest constituent , while marsh-gas in considerable quantity was found in all .
The percentage of this latter gas is somewhat higher than that found by Wright in the stony meteorites he examined , but this is probably due to the fact that a rather higher temperature was employed by us to drive off the gases .
This supposition seems to be confirmed on considering the analysis of the Pultusk meteorite , which is the only one examined both by Wright and ourselves ; for whereas his abstracted gas only reached 1'75 times the volume of the stone , the total quantity of gas obtained by us was twice as much or equal to 3'54 times its volume .
It is therefore unquestionable that marsh-gas is given off on heating these meteoric stones , but whether it exists as such occluded in the material , or whether it is formed by some chemical decomposition of some organic constituent of the mass is by no means clear .
Wright came to the conclusion " that the marsh-gas really existed as such in the stony meteorites , as the temperature at which it was driven off would be too low for its formation , " at the same time he thinks it quite possible that " at very m*uch higher temperatures , in the reaction by which the carbonic acid is broken up by the iron , a portion of the carbon might combine with the hydrogen present to form marsh-gas .
" We shall return to this question of the formation of marsh-gas , after we have described the experiments in the various forms of graphite .
Knowing the great absorptive power for gases possessed by porous bodies generally , it was thought advisable to determine directly what this absorptive power was in the case of these stony meteorites , which are of such an eminently porous nature .
For this purpose the powdered Dhurmsala meteorite , from which the gases had been removed , was left in moist air under a bell glass , for different periods of time as tabulated below , the gases being drawn off at a low red heat after each period:\#151 ; Occluded gas in vols .
of the meteorite .
C02 .
CO. H. N. After 24 hours . . .
061 54-0 \#151 ; 42-4 3-6 After 6 days more .
... 2-47 47-0 5-0 47-0 1-0 After 8 days more .
... 0-63 96-1 2-0 1-5 \#151 ; The absorption of water and gases evidently went on tolerably rapidly for the first seven days , but after the second heating of the meteorite , its porosity seems to have been affected in some way , for after a further period of eight days , we find it taking up only about a fourth of the quantity of gas which it had absorbed in the previous six days .
554 Mr. G. Ansdell and Prof. J. Dewar .
[ June 10 , The actual amount of water given off after this exposure to a moist atmosphere was considerably less than what was obtained in the original heating of the meteorite , and from this we infer that the water is chemically combined in the stone .
It would be difficult to explain , otherwise than by chemical combination , the power by which the water is retained by these meteorites , as it is not given off until a very high temperature is reached .
In any .
case it is clear that the hydrogen must come from the action of water on the iron nickel alloy , or finely disseminated carbon .
Greville Williams has pointed out that the large amount of hydrogen obtained from heating finely divided zinc-dust is not due to free hydrogen , but to the action of the zinc on the hydrated oxide of zinc .
We now pass on to the consideration of the various graphites examined .
The celestial graphite was a perfect oblong nodule weighing 30 grams , which had been taken from the interior of a mass of the Toluca meteoric iron .
It had a uniform dull-black colour , except at one end where there was a slight incrustation of sulphide of iron .
Its fracture showed a uniform dull black , compact mass ; it was easily pounded up in a porcelain mortar , and formed a fine granular powder without any lustre .
On extracting the gases from this specimen a considerable quantity of marsh-gas was obtained , so that it appeared to us most important to compare it with some samples of terrestrial graphites , more especially as the occluded gases had , to our knowledge , never before been determined in these bodies .
For this purpose four samples of native graphites were obtained .
The Cumberland graphite was a magnificent specimen of the original Borrodale , and had been in a private cabinet for over fifteen years .
It had the characteristic dense homogeneous structure , and brilliant external lustre of the graphites coming from this district .
The Siberian example was from the Alexandref Mine ; its structure was columnar and striated , with little external lustre ; it was rather more easily broken up than the Borrodale , but formed the same dull black powder .
The specimen from Ceylon was of the type usual to that island ; highly lustrous and flaky , breaking up very easily , and forming small shining plates when ground up .
The last sample , which was from the same cabinet as the others , but whose origin was unfortunately unknown , had a dull external surface , was exceedingly porous , and much more brittle than any of the previous ones , grinding up very easily into a dull black powder .
It had more the appearance of the celestial graphites , which was heightened by having slight incrustations of sulphide of iron in its surface .
Its low specific gravity also shows it to be some exceptional variety .
It seemed to us most important in connexion with this subject to examine some matrix with which the graphites are usually found 1886 .
] On the Gaseous Constituents of Meteorites .
555 associated .
These rocks are very variable , but consist principally of a kind of decomposed trap or gneiss .
We succeeded in obtaining a good specimen of semi-decomposed gneiss from Canada with a considerable quantity of graphite disseminated throughout the mass , and also several samples of Ceylon graphite imbedded in its matrix , which in this case consisted of felspar and quartz .
The results , as tabulated below , confirm Wright 's analyses of several trap rocks , in which he found principally carbonic acid and hydrogen .
The small quantity of marsh-gas no doubt comes from the disseminated graphite , but the presence of the hydrogen is more difficult to explain and requires further investigation .
Sp. gr. Occluded gases in vols .
of the graphite .
C02 .
CO. H. ch4 .
-\#166 ; !
Celestial graphite 2*26 7-25 91-81 2-50 5-40 01 Borrodale " 2-86 2-60 36 -40 7-77 22 -2 26 11 6-66 Siberian " 2 05 2-55 57 -41 6 16 10-25 20-83 4 16 Ceylon " 2-25 0 22 66-60 14-80 7-40 3-70 4-50 Unknown " 1-64 7-26 50-79 3 16 2-50 39-53 3-49 Gneiss 2 45 5 32 82 -38 2-38 13-61 0-47 1-20 Felspar 2-59 1-27 94-72 0 81 2-21 0-61 1 1-40 1 On comparing these samples of graphite , it will be seen that the Borrodale and the Siberian give off about the same total volume of gas , that the celestial and the unknown graphites closely approximate each other in this respect , yielding more than double the volume of the others , and that the Ceylon sample stands alone in yielding a very minute quantity .
All the terrestrial samples , except that from Ceylon , are alike in giving off a very considerable quantity of marsh-gas , though they differ somewhat in the actual quantity , and it is evident that , although the celestial graphite contains a considerable amount , it is very much less than that yielded by the terrestrial samples .
A few tentative experiments were made to ascertain the absorbing power for gases of this celestial graphite .
Bor this purpose dry carbonic acid , marsh-gas , and hydrogen were respectively drawn through the tube containing the previously exhausted graphite for twelve hours in the cold , the gases being pumped out at a low red heat after each treatment with the dry gas .
After the carbonic acid treatment the volume of gas collected was only l'l times that of the graphite , containing 98*4 per cent , of carbonic acid ; after the marsh-gas the volume of the gas was only 0'9 that of the graphite , containing 94 " 1 per cent , carbonic acid ; and after the hydrogen the volume of the gas 556 Mr. G. Ansdell and Prof. J. Dewar .
[ June 10 , collected was only 0T7 times that of the graphite , containing 95*0 per cent , of carbonic acid .
It is therefore evident that the large quantity of gas occluded in celestial graphites cannot be explained by any special absorptive power of this variety of carbon .
In view of the large and varying percentages of marsh-gas in the gaseous products of all these graphites , it appeared to us of especial interest to ascertain whether the quantity of marsh-gas extracted coincided in any way with the hydrogen obtained by their combustion .
We therefore submitted all the samples to ultimate analysis , with the following results:\#151 ; Percentage composition .
Hydrogen .
Carbon .
Ash .
Celestial graphite Oil 76-10 23-50 Borrodale , , 0*11 94-76 4-85 Siberian " 0*17 79-07 20-00 Ceylon " ... .
0*017 90-90 9-08 Unknown " 0*246 78-51 21-26 These analyses do not seem to point to any very definite conclusion as to the origin of the marsh-gas .
The unknown graphite , which contains the largest percentage of marsh-gas , certainly comes out far the highest in hydrogen , and the hydrogen in the Ceylon graphite also bears a certain relation to the small quantity of marsh-gas it contains , but the first three samples are very similar to each other in the amount of hydrogen they contain .
In order to get some further insight into the origin of this marsh-gas in the celestial graphite , about 2 grams of the original nodule were very finely ground up and digested for several hours with strong nitric acid .
After being thoroughly washed from every trace of nitric acid and dried at 110 ' C. , it was again submitted to analysis , with the result that the amount of hydrogen remained exactly the same as before , proving that it existed in the form of some very stable compound in the graphite .
To clear up this matter still further , about 10 grams of the original nodule were digested with pure ether in the way described by Lawrence Smith for extracting the hydrocarbon-like bodies .
It was allowed to stand for twenty-four hours with excess of ether , and then filtered , and washed with more ether .
The graphite thus treated was dried at 110 ' C. , and the gases extracted from it .
ITor the purpose of comparing one of the terrestrial graphites with the above in regard to its behaviour with ether , the specimen of unknown origin was selected , as yielding the largest quantity of marsh-gas .
The residue , after digestion with ether , was dried , and the gases pumped out as before .
It will be seen that by this treatment with ether the volume of gas 1886 .
] On the Gaseous Constituents of Meteorites .
557 given off by the celestial graphite , and also the marsh-gas , have been reduced to rather more than one-half , while with regard to the unknown graphite , although the total volume of gas remains about the same ( probably due to a rather higher temperature being employed ) , the marsh-gas has also been reduced to rather less than one-third the original amount , and the hydrogen has correspondingly increased .
Occluded gases in toIs .
of the graphite .
i C02 .
CO. H. ch4 .
X. Celestial graphite before treatment with ether 7*25 91*81 2-50 5-40 01 Celestial graphite after treatment with ether 3-50 81-50 10 -63 1-41 .
2 12 0 " 74 | Unknown graphite before treatment with ether 7-26 50-79 3 16 2-50 39-53 3 -49 j Unknown graphite after treatment with ether ... 715 64-86 5-67 14-37 12-96 2-00 j These experiments prove that either the ether did not dissolve out all the actual carbonaceous compounds present , or that the marsh-gas was subsequently formed during the heating of the graphite .
As Dr. De La Rue had kindly placed at our disposal a splendid specimen of the Orgueil meteorite , we took the opportunity of comparing the gases occluded by this typical specimen of the carbonaceous class with those obtained from the stony meteorites and the graphites .
This meteorite has been so thoroughly examined by Cloez and Pisani ( " Count .
rend .
, " vol. 59 ( 1864 ) , pp. 37 , 132 ) with regard to its chemical inorganic constituents , that nothing need be said as to its general composition .
We therefore confined ourselves to the gases given off on heating which had not previously been determined .
During the heating of the meteorite a large quantity of water , on which floated numerous small pieces of sulphur , collected in the bulb tube immersed in the freezing mixture .
This water was strongly acid , and indeed smelt strongly of sulphurous acid .
On evaporating it to dryness with a drop of hydrochloric acid , abundance of ammoniacal salts were found in the residue .
In the cool anterior part of the combustion-tube a considerable sublimate had collected , which proved to be principally sulphate of ammonium with traces of sulphides and sulphites , and a large quantity of free sulphur .
A very large quantity of gas was given off , having the following composition:\#151 ; 558 On the Gaseous Constituents of Meteorites .
[ June 10 , Occluded gases Percentage composition , in vols .
of the , ------------*--------------Sp .
gr. meteorite , C02 .
CO. CET4 .
N. S02 .
Orgueil meteorite 2*567 57*87 12*77 1*96 1*50 0*56 83*00 Sulphurous acid is evidently the main constituent of the gases given off ; but if we eliminate this gas , which has been formed from the decomposition of the sulphate of iron , we find the meteorite yields 9*8 times its volume of gas , having very much the same composition as that from some of the stony meteorites , viz.:\#151 ; C02 , 76*05 ; CO , 11*67 ; CH4 , 8*93 ; N , 3*33 .
Cloez found the organic matter in this meteorite to be composed of carbon 63*45 , hydrogen 5*98 , oxygen 30*57 , which is nearly in the proportions of a terrestrial humus substance , We know such substances break up by the action of heat into gases of the nature found above , at the same time , however , a quantity of the carbonic acid undoubtedly comes from the presence of the carbonates of magnesium and iron .
The operation by which terrestrial carbon has been changed into graphite is by no means clear .
As a rule the transition of one kind of carbon into another necessitates the action of a very high temperature .
If , therefore , a really high temperature is in all cases necessary , it is difficult to explain how compounds of carbon came to resist decomposition , and should come to be found associated with all natural graphites .
We may assume that the graphite resulted from the action of water , gases and other agents , on the carbides of the metals , and that during the chemical interactions which took place , a portion of the carbon became transformed into organic compounds .
In either case we are led to the conclusion that the method of formation of the meteoric and terrestrial graphites was similar , and it is perfectly possible they may after all have come from a common source .
We purpose continuing this investigation , and in order to acquire further information , it is our intention to examine the gases given off from meteorites at definite temperatures , and especially the gases from such as can be found coated with an impervious glaze , and to examine more particularly into the presence of water in such bodies , and the source of the nitrogen found in the same .
Note .
Since the above analyses of different graphites were made , we have examined a sample of the artificial graphite which results from the action of oxidising agents in the cyanogen compounds present in crude caustic soda .
The following analysis shows that this artificial 1886 , ] On the Median Eye in Lizards .
559 variety of graphite is characterised by giving a very large yield of marsh-gas .
co3 45-42 CO 39-88 CEL 4-43 H 8-31 N 2-00 Occluded gases in volumes of the graphite=53*13 .
XIV .
" Preliminary Communication on the Structure and Presence in Sphenodon and other Lizards of the Median Eye , described by von Graaf in Anguis By W. Baldwin Spencer , B.A. , Demonstrator of Comparative Anatomy in University of Oxford , Fellow of Lincoln College .
Communicated by Prof. H. N. Moseley , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1886 .
In 1872 Leydig* described a structure in Lacerta agilis , L. muralis , L. vivipara , and Anguis fragilis , to which he gave the name of " frontal organ .
" In the embryo , owing to its being deeply pigmented , it forms a prominent feature on the roof of the original forebrain in connexion with the pineal gland ; in the adult it lies immediately beneath the skin , and , according to him and subsequent observers , completely separated from the brain .
In Anguis fragilis the organ is seen microscopically to consist of long cells like those of a cylindrical epithelium , which are so arranged that together they form a shallow pit with a circular outline .
The edge of the pit is directed downwards , and has a thick black girdle of pigment .
It corresponds in position to that occupied by the parietal foramen in the adult .
Leydig regarded our knowledge of the organ as insufficient to allow of any statement being made with regard to its function .
Rabl-Ruckhard , t in 1882 , describing the development of the pineal gland in the trout , pointed out the resemblance between its development as a hollow outgrowth of the brain and that of the optic vesicles .
Granted such secondary developments from the epiblast and meso-blast as combine to produce the eye , and which are absent in the case of the pineal gland , though the distal extremity of the latter lies in a * " Die in Deutschland lebenden Arten der Saurier , " p. 72 , taf .
12 .
f " Sir Deutung und Entwickelung des G-ehirns der Enochenfis die .
" Arch , fur Anat .
u. Phys. , Jahrg .
1882 , p. 111 .

