On the mutual Action of Sulphuric Acid and Alcohol , with Observations on the Composition and Properties of the resulting Compound .
By Mr. Henry Hennell , Chemical Operator at Apothecaries ' Hall .
Communicated by W. T. Brand , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read March 9 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part III .
p. 240 .
] At the commencement of this paper Mr. Hennell describes certain peculiarities in the properties of oil of wine , which induced him to consider sulphuric acid as one of its proximate elements ; and on following up his analytical experiments upon it he found that about 37 per cent. of that acid might be obtained during its decomposition , although in its original state it affords no indications of that acid by the tests of the soluble salts of baryta , -a circumstance which he refers to the presence of hydrocarbon exerting a peculiar saturating influence upon the acid .
Of this hydrocarbon he next determines the composition , and finds that its elements correspond in their relative proportions with those of olefiant gas .
When oil of wine is mixed with solution of muriate of baryta , and gently heated , the mixture becomes acid , reddening litmus paper , but yet does not precipitate the barytic salt .
Several experiments are detailed illustrating the nature of this acid , from which it appears that it forms very soluble compounds with baryta and potassa ; the latter is a crystallizable salt , which burns with flame when heated , and leaves a bisulphate of potassa .
Its analysis , the details of which are given at length in the paper , shows it to consist of two proportionals of sulphuric acid , one of potassa , four of carbon , and four of hydrogen ; and it is remarked that the latter elements , namely , the carbon and hydrogen , appear in the present instance to be equivalent to , or to exert a saturating power over , one of the proportionals of sulphuric acid .
Some slight discrepancies between the experimental and theoretical results of these analyses are adverted to , which the author thinks himself justified in attributing to water of crystallization in the salt , which he could not succeed in obtaining in a perfectly anhydrous state .
Mr. Hennell next shows that the salts , called Sulphovinates , are not essentially different from those which he has just described , and that they are not , as some have supposed , hyposulphates , modified by the presence of essential oil .
In preparing the sulphovinates he was struck with the singular change effected upon sulphuric acid , by mixing it with its weight of alcohol .
A portion of sulphuric acid , adequate to the saturation of 555 grains of carbonate of soda , required only 398 grains for its saturation when previously mixed with alcohol ; and again a quantity of sulphuric acid , which afforded 1313 grains of sulphate of lead , only produced 542 grains when it had been mixed with its weight of alcohol .
These circumstances are referred to the combination of a portion of the sulphuric acid with hydrocarbon derived from the alcohol .
Some experiments are then detailed , having for their object the separation of the hydrocarbon from oil of wine .
When this oil , as it is called , is heated with a little potash , the salt above described is formed , and the excess of hydrocarbon is liberated in the form of a thick oil , which crystallizes at low temperatures : it has an aromatic odour , , sp. gr. 9 , is insoluble in water , but soluble in alcohol and ether ; decomposition by peroxide of copper showed it to consist of carbon and hydrogen in the proportions of 6 and 1 , -analogous therefore , as far as its ultimate elements are concerned , to olefiant gas .
The author examined some sulphuric acid given to him by Mr. Faraday , which had been made to absorb about 80 volumes of olefiant gas ; and this saturated with carbonate of potash , evaporated to dryness , and the residue , treated by alcohol , afforded a portion of the same salt as that obtained from the oil of wine .
The author concludes , therefore , that hydrocarbon , composed of single proportionals of its elements , is capable of entering into a peculiar neutral combination with sulphuric acid , and that the compound in its purest known form constitutes what has been called oil of wine ; and that when in this state it is acted upon by certain salifiable bases , a portion of the hydrocarbon is thrown off , and a distinct set of neurtral salts formed , which are resolvable by heat into bi-sulphates ; and which therefore include two proportionals of the elements of sulphuric acid , one of proto-carburet of hydrogen , and one of base .

