418 Mr. F. Gotch .
Electromotive Properties of [ Mar. 8 , Although it grows abundantly in the aqueous solution employed , it exerts no reducing action on the nitric acid .
Bacillus scissus.\#151 ; In form this organism much resembles Bacillus prodigiosus .
In no case were spores observed .
In drop cultivations it is seen to be very motile .
It produces pale light green surface expansions on gelatine plates which , under a low power ( x 100 diameters ) , are seen to be of fine granular texture , the edge being much frayed out .
In tubes the gelatine and agar-agar become tinted green .
It powerfully reduces nitrates to nitrites in the solution employed .
Of the above , the first nine were derived from water , whilst the remaining three were obtained from garden soil .
The original descriptions are illustrated by drawings of the various micro-organisms as seen in microscopic preparations , and of the appearances to which they give rise in gelatine-plate and other cultivations .
II .
" Further Observations on the Electromotive Properties of the Electrical Organ of Torpedo marmorata .
" By Francis Gotch , M.A. Oxon .
, B.A. , B.Sc. London .
Communicated by Prof. J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received February 23 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In the present memoir the author details the results of further observations as to the electromotive properties of the electrical organ of Torpedo , the experiments being carried out in October , 1887 , at the laboratory of the Societe Scientifique dArcachon .
I. The first part of the work deals entirely with the phenomena of " irreciprocal conduction " in the organ of Torpedo , as described by du Bois-Reymond .
From du Bois-Reymond 's experiments it would appear that the organ possesses the remarkable property of conducting an intense current of short duration , led lengthwise through its columns , better when the current is directed from its ventral to its dorsal surface than when directed the reverse way .
The former direction coincides with that of the current of the shock of the organ , and is therefore termed by him " homodromous , " the latter being opposite in direction , is termed " heterodromous .
" The evidence rests upon the value of the galvanometric deflections obtained when both currents are allowed to traverse a strip of organ and a galvanometric circuit .
The deflections are markedly unequal , particularly when induced currents are used , the homodromous effect being always much greater than the 1888 .
] the Electrical Organ of Torpedo marmorata .
heterodromous .
The homodromous current must therefore either encounter less resistance than the heterodromous , or its electromotive force must be suddenly strengthened , and that of the heterodromous current weakened , by the sudden establishment in the tissue of a new source of electromotive energy .
The ..first is the view taken by Professor du Bois-Reymond .
( 1 .
) The present rheotome experiments reveal ( a ) the new fact that the passage of such intense currents of short duration is always followed by an excitatory response ( shock ) in the tissue ; ( 6 ) that if the intense current due to this response is allowed to affect the galvanometer as well as the induced or other exciting current , then by obvious algebraic summation the homodromous deflection must be much larger than the heterodromous ; ( c ) and that when by means of a fast-moving rheotome the induction shock only is allowed to affect the instrument , no irreciprocity is found .
The author therefore assumes that the phenomena of irreciprocal conduction are in reality excitatory phenomena , the nature of which , from the methods of investigation used , have not been recognised .
( 2 .
) The time relations of this response of the isolated strip of the brgan to the direct.stimulation by the traversing induction shock are now for the first time investigated , by means of the rheotome , and the influence of temperature and other conditions upon these is shown by experimental evidence .
II .
The second part deals with entirely novel phenomena , namely , the excitation of the organ by the current of its own excitatory state .
It is shown that in vigorous summer fish every response of the whole or part of the organ to a smgle excitation of its nerves is followed by a second response , due to the passage through its own substance of the intense current of the first response .
In other words the shock of the organ excites its own nerve fibres and nerve endings , producing a feebler second shock , which in a similar manner evolves a feebler third shock ; this a fourth , and so on .
The response of the isolated organ to nerve excitation is thus multiple ; a primary , secondary , tertiary response following the application to the nerve of a single stimulus .
Since all these responses produce currents similarly directed through the columns of the organ , each column during its activity must reinforce by its echoes the force of the primary explosion , both in its own substance and also in that of its neighbours .

