The reading of Dr. Philip 's paper was resumed and concluded .
The object of the present paper , which the author intends as a sequel to those he has lately presented to the Society , and which have been published in the Philosophical Transactions , is to investigate the operation of the different causes of death , and the mode in which the several powers of the living system influence each other during the period of their decline .
In the more perfect animals , he observes , there are three distinct classes of functions , namely , the sensoiia\ , the nervous and the muscular , which have no direct depend ?
ence on each other , although they are Iinked together by the connexions of the organs in which they reside ; the consequence of which is , that the cessation of any one class of functions is more or less immediately followed by the destruction of the rest .
What is commonly called death consists in the extinction of the sensorial functions only ?
for the nervous and muscular functions may still , for a time , survive j although , in consequence of the failure of respiration , which in the more perfect animals the author considers as , in the strictest sense , a function of volition , they also speedily terminate .
Thus he distinguishes this sensorial death from what constitutes actual death , that is , the cessation of all the functions , and which occurs at a later pe ?
riod .
As far as the sensorial powers are concerned , their decline and cessation are exceedingly analogous to the approach and occurrence of sleep 5 the only difference being that the former is an irrevocable failure of those powers , while the latter admits of their being resumed with renovated vigour by the continued action of the vital powers .
The modes in which the sensitive functions are extinguished , or in other words the forms of death , are referred by the author to five different heads : the first and only natural mode is that from the simple effect of old age , when all the powers of life are completely exhausted by the continued operation of the agents which had excited them ?
and death is , in that case , only the last sleep .
The vital functions are here impaired , chiefly from the diminished frequency of respiration , which is itself a consequence of the impaired sensibility ; so that there is a diminution of the action , but not of the powers , of the vital or ?
gans .
If the decay of the vital powers be gradual , and nothing occurs suddenly to accelerate it , they will necessarily cease at the time when their excitement is the smallest , that is , during the state of sleep .
In all other cases , death arises from causes which must be regarded as adventitious , and consequently inducing a more or less violent death .
The first class of these causes comprises those arising from the continued action of stimulants , more powerful than the ordinary stimulants to which the system is subjected , and making their immediate impression on the organs of the sensitive system .
These may be considered as producing a diseased condition of the sen.sorium , which , by sympathy* communicates its influence to the vital organs .
The next form of death is that which is induced by such causes as are applied , in a sufficient degree , to act as direct sedatives to the or ?
gans of the sensitive system , that is , to impair their excitability without previous excitement .
The third set of causes of death comprehends those which operate by depriving some of the vital organs of those stimulants on which their functions depend ; and the last con ?
sists of such as directly debilitate those organs themselves .
Thus , according to the author , these adventitious causes act either directly by destroying the power of the brain and spinal cord , or by affecting the vital parts of those organs , so as , through them , to destroy the circulation or the assimilatory functions .
The destruction of the cir ?
culation appears , in all cases , to be the cause of instantaneous death , and always to be effected through impressions made on the vital parts of the brain and spinal cord , except where the injurious agent operates directly on the organs of circulation themselves .
The author considers the vital functions , together with the muscu ?
lar and nervous powers , which carry them on , as the results of inanimate agents acting on living parts , or living parts on them ; and hence he explains the analogy which exists between all these functions and the operations of inanimate nature ; while , with regard to the sensorial functions alone , as they are the results of vital parts acting on each other , so no analogy can be perceived between them and those ope ?
rations .
In the course of the paper the author frequently reverts to the are ?
gument , that , to the sentient being , death being simply the loss of sensibility , the last act of dying can in no case be an act of suffering : and in the majority of instances of the long continuance of disease , our tastes , and our relish for life itself , being gradually impaired , death is met , not only with composure , but even with satisfaction .

