579 .
] Dr. Ord .
Structure of the Spinal Cord .
265 be maintained in a fully oxidized state .
A further advantage is ven by the influence of .
the presence of ammonia on the colour of ie test , for , in proportion to the height of colour of a volumetric Is0 is its degree of delicacy as a reagent , and the effect of the Idition of ammonia to the ordinary copper test is to considerably be icrease the blue colour belonging to it .
Seeing that the test here proposed acts with equal efficiency either i the presence or absence of extraneous organic matter , it is alike iapted for employment by the chemist , the physiologist , and the iedical practitioner in relation to diabetes .
V. " On the Effect of Strong Induction-Currents upon the Structure of the Spinal Cord .
" By William Miller Ord , M.D. , F.L.S. , Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians , Physician to St. Thomas 's Hospital .
Communicated by J. Simon , C.B. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received December 17,1878 .
( Abstract .
) I The results of a series of experiments are related .
They were founded upon considerations offered by chorea , tetanus , and similar liseases ; certain clinical facts and post-mortem observations having .
led the author to suppose that the occurrence of protoplasmic convulsion or spasm in the grey matter of the nervous system was consistent with the morbid appearances and with the history of cases .
The present series of observations was made upon adolescent dogs , i The spinal cord was the part selected for experiment .
The dogs were !
'i killed by chloroform , and the cord , rapidly exposed , was galvanized for different periods and in different directions .
In all cases parallel experiments were made with dogs of the same age and size , all points of the operation being carried out in the same way , save for the application of the galvanic currents .
The following effects were observed:\#151 ; 1 .
Broadening of the cord in parts through which currents had been passed longitudinally , narrowing where transverse currents had been applied .
2 .
In the narrowed parts a great diminution in the sectional area of the grey matter with retraction of the posterior horns .
3 .
In the same parts a remarkable dilatation of the central spinal canal , and an infiltration of myelin and leucocytes into the cavity .
4 .
The production of spaces around corpuscles , vessels , and nerve-bundles by the retraction of the protoplasmic matter .
Such spaces " j were often found filled with debris , containing coagula , myelin , and vacuoles .
They corresponded in appearance with the " perivascular erosions " of Dickinson .
1 VOL. XXVIII .
u v 266 Mr. G. J. Romanes on [ Jan. 16 , 5 .
The contraction of nerve-corpuscles , which , being much more marked between their branches , gave them a scalloped appearance .
Vacuoles were formed within them , and in the spaces formed by their retraction , and by the retraction of surrounding parts .
6 .
In some places rupture of nervous tissue was observed .
7 .
In longitudinal sections nerve-fibres were found flattened and varicose , the flattening resembling that described by Elischer in fibres of median nerve in chorea .
Conclusions.\#151 ; 1 .
That , in young dogs , the protoplasmic constituent of the grey matter contracts en mass under the influence of strong faradaic currents .
2 .
That it contracts unequally and irregularly by reason of its unequal and irregular sectional area , causing thereby condensations at certain points\#151 ; notably in the anterior horns and around the central canal\#151 ; and rarefaction at others\#151 ; notably in the middle of each crescent ; such rarefaction going on sometimes to rupture of tissues .
1 3 .
That nerve-corpuscles contract in various degrees according to the strength and duration of currents , and that while they tend in contraction to become spherical they also tend to become vacuolated .
\#166 ; 4 .
That the vessels are in some places strongly contracted and empty ; in others dilated and filled with blood clot , having the appearance of embolus .
5 .
That the appearances correspond so decidedly with appearances in chorea and tetanus as to give ground for the supposition that con- ; tractions , such as are produced by electricity , do actually occur during life under the effect of nervous shock , and may be phenomena causal or associate of disease .
V. " Concluding Observations on the Locomotor System off Medusae .
" By George J. Romanes , M.A. , F.L.S. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received December BO , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The principal bulk of the paper is devoted to a full consideration of numerous facts and inferences relating to the phenomena of what the author terms " artificial rhythm .
" Some of these facts have already been published in abstract in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " ( vol. xxv ) , and to explain those which have not been published would involve more space than it is here desirable to allow .
The tendency of the whole research on artificial rhythm , as produced in various species of Medusae , is to show that the natural rhythm of these animals ( and so probably of ganglio-muscular tissues in general ) is due , not exclusively to the intermittent nature of the ganglionic

