154 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
On the Organisation [ Feb. 12 , February 12 , 1891 .
Professor ALFRED NEWTON- , M.A. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. William Lawies Jackson was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
Part XVIII .
" By W. 0 .
Williamson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester .
Received January 22 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) On three preceding occasions the author has directed attention to the existence in the older Carboniferous rocks of a remarkable form of fructification which seemed to belong to the Calamarian family of plants , though presenting features distinct from any that had hitherto been described .
In the first instance , in 1871 , he placed this fructification in Sternberg 's provisional genus under the name of V. Dawsoni .
Some small fragments of the same type , obtained at a later period by the late Professor Weiss , of Berlin , led him to identify the plant with Binney 's hitherto very obscure genus Bowmanites , an identification which is accepted by Professor Williamson .
Still more recently , a number of additional specimens have been obtained from the Granister Carboniferous beds of Lancashire and Yorkshire , which not only throw further light upon the plant , but have made it possible to re-write its history in an almost complete form .
Like all the other Calamariae , Bowmanites was a plant with a distinctly articulated stem , each node of which bore a verticil of lateral appendages .
In the vegetative organs each of these nodal appendages consisted of a verticil of the linear , uninerved leaves characteristic of the old , ill-defined genus AsterophyHites .
In the fructification these foliar verticils are replaced by a broad circular disk , the margin of which sustained a verticil of leaf-like " disk-rays .
" These rays can scarcely , at present , be identified with true leaves , since they have 1891 .
] of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
155 not only no midrib , but they seem to contain no traces whatever of a vascular bundle .
The centre of the axis of the strobilus is occupied by a conspicuous bundle of barred and reticulated tracheids of the scalariform type , the transverse section of which bundle is triangular , with concave sides .
Bach of the three prominent angles is abruptly and broadly truncated .
A thin inner cortex seems to have originally surrounded this bundle , but all traces of its tissues have disappeared .
The thick outer cortex is composed of a mixture of rather coarse , strongly defined parenchymatous and prosenchymatous cells .
At each node this cortex expands into the lenticular disk already referred to .
This disk is thickest at its inner border , thinning gradually towards its outer margin , where it subdivides into the verticil of elongated disk-rays already mentioned .
Though no vascular bundles can be discovered connecting the central axial one with the surrounding disk , some such must have once existed , since we find them both in the cortex of the inter-nodes and in the nodal disks .
The entire upper surface of each disk has given off numerous very slender sporangiophores , destined to reach three or four concentric circles of sporangia , which were arranged in a single plane in the internodal interval between each two disks .
Bach sporangiophore , unlike what is usual amongst the Calamarise , only sustained a single sporangium .
In order to reach the more external ranges of the latter organs , the sporangiophores were prolonged outwards in a distinct layer between the upper surface of the disk and the sporangia which rested upon it .
Not only was this the case , but when each sporangiophore reached the sporangium with which it was destined to become organically united , it did not at once do so ; but it passed under , and even beyond that organ , when it bent back upon itself and became united to the sporangium on its distal side .
The outer , or epidermal , layer of the sporangium was merely an extension of that of the .
sporangiophore .
^ numerous spores of Bowmanites have also a distinctive form .
Bach has a rather thin exosporium , but this is thickened along a few reticulate lines , and from each junction of these reticulations a strong radiating spine is projected .
It is in the very distinctive features of these reproductive organs that the marked generic individuality of Bowmanites chiefly resides .
The second plant described in the memoir , under the name of chiopteris ramosa , is one of the several Pern-like organisms which 6 aydhor has included in his provisional group of JEtachiopterides .
onsiderable doubt exists respecting the true affinities of at least some of these plants .
The one now described may prove to be a less suit , more fully developed condition of the Rachiopteris hirsuta described by the author in his Memoir XV .

