Some Observations of Vipers .
A curious Italian , called Francesco Redi , having lately had an opportunity , by the great number of Vipers , brought to the Grand Luke of Toscany for the composing of Theriac or Treacle , to examine what is vulgarly delivered and believed concerning the Poison of those Creatures , hath , ( according to the account , given of it in the French Journal des Scavans , printed January 4 .
1665/ 6 ) performed his undertaking with much exactness , and published in an Italian tract , not yet come into England , these Observations .
1 .
He hath observed , that the poison of Vipers is neither in their Teeth , nor in their Tail , nor in their Gall ; but in the two Vesicles or Bladders , which cover their teeth , and which coming to be compressed , when the Vipers bite , do emit a certain yellowish Liquor , that runs along the teeth and poisons the wound .
Whereof he gives this proof , that he hath rub 'd the wounds of many Animals with the Gall of Vipers , and pricked them with their Teeth , and yet no considerable ill accident follow 'd upon it , but that as often as he rubbed the wounds with the said yellow Liquor , not one of them escaped .
2 Whereas commonly it hath hitherto been believed , that the poison of Vipers being swallowed , was present death ; this Author , after many reiterated Experiments , is said to have observed , that in Vipers there is neither Humour , nor Excrement , nor any part , not the Gall it self , that , being taken into the Body , kills .
And he assures , that he hath seen men eat , and hath often made Bruit Animals swallow all that is esteemed most poisonous in a Viper , yet without the least mischief to them .
Whence he shows , that it needs not so much to be wondred at , that certain Empiricks swallow the juice of the most venomous Animals without receiving any harm thereby ; adding , that , which is adscribed to the virtue of their Antidote , ought to be attributed to the nature of those kinds of Poisons , which are no poisons , when they are swallowed , ( for which Doctrine he also alleges Celsus ) but only when they are put into wounds .
Which also has been noted by Lucan , who introduces Cato thus speaking ; Noxia serpentum est admisto sanguine pestis , Morsu virus habent , &amp; fatum dent minantur ; Pocula morte carent .
And what also some Authors have affirmed , videl .
That it is mortal , to eat of the Flesh of creatures killed by Vipers ; or to drink of the Wine wherein Vipers have been drownedsor to suck the wounds that have been made by them , is by this Author observed to be wide of truth .
For he assures , that many persons have eaten Pullets and Pigeons , bitten by Vipers , without finding any alteration from it in their health .
On the contrary , he declares , That it is a sovereign Remedy against the biting of Vipers , to suck the wound ; alleging an Experiment , made upon a Dog , which he caused to be bitten by a Viper at the nose , who by licking his own wound saved his life .
Which he confirms by the example of those people , celebrated in History by the name of Marsi and Psilli , whose Employment it was , to heal those , that had been bitten by Serpents , by sucking their wounds .
3 .
He adds , that although Galen and many modern Physicians do affirm , that there is nothing , which causes so much thirst , as Vipers-flesh , yet he hath experimented the contrary and known divers persons , who did eat the flesh of Vipers at all their meals , and yet did assure him , they never were less dry , then when they observed that kind of Diet .
4 As for the Salt of Vipers , whereof some chymists have so great esteem , he saith , that it hath no Purging virtue at all in it ; adding that even of All Salts , none hath more virtue than another , as he pretends to have showed in an other Book of his , De natura salium ; which also hath not been yet transmitted into these parts .
5 .
He denies , what Aristotle assures , and what Galen saith to have often tried , that the Spittle of a Fasting person kills Vipers , and he laughs at many other particulars , that have been delivered concerning the Antipathy of Vipers unto certain things ; and their manner of Conception and Generation , and several other properties , commonly ascribed to them ; which the alleged French Author affirms to be refuted by so many experiments made by this Italian Philosopher , that it seems to him , there is no place left for doubting , after so authentic a testimony .

