V. " On New Nitrogenous Derivatives of the Phenyland Benzoyl-Series .
" ByP .
GRIEss , Esq. Comimunicated by Dr. HOFMANN .
Received December 9 , 1858 .
Piria 's important discovery that the action of nitrous acid upon asparagin gives rise to the formation of malic acid , has led to a very general application of this agent in the study of nitrogenous substances .
The results obtained have been almost always analogous to those produced by Piria ; the reaction may be illustrated by the following examples:(C8 11406 ) " } N+42N0= H10+4N+ ( C fH1O4 ) " } .
H4 N+2NOI=H2 02+ 4N+ ( C3 E4 4}O .
4JJ Asparagin .
Malic acid .
C 12HI N+NO =HO+2N+ C12H } 0 .
Phenylamine .
Phenol .
The plan hitherto adopted consisted in submitting the aqueous solution of the nitrogenous body directly to the action of nitrous acid , or in dissolving the body in nitric acid , and passing into the solution a current of binoxide of nitrogen .
By employing alcoholic and ethereal solutions , I have arrived at different results , establishing a new mode of reaction ; of the facts which I have observed the following may be quoted as illustrations .
Action of Nitrous Acid on Picramic Acid .
Diazodinit rophenol .
On passing a current of nitrous acid into an alcoholic solution of picramic acid/ 3\ C , H , N30 , O0=C ] , ( NO4)2 02- .
IHIN / the red liquid assumes at once a yellow colour , and furnishes rapidly a copious deposit of yellow crystals .
No gas is evolved during the reaction .
The yellow crystals , purified by recrystallization from alcohol , are found to contain C , , H2 N4010 , and are obviously formed according to the equationC , Ha N , ( , ,o+ NO3 3HO+ ( C , , H , N4 0o , , The new body , for which I propose the provisional name diazodinitrophenol , is soluble in alcohol and ether , and crystallizes from the former solvent in magnificent golden-yellow plates , which detonate on heating .
Acids have no action upon this substance ; on ebullition with water it appears to undergo decomposition ; alkalies induce at once a copious evolution of gas , and give rise to the formation of dinitrophenol .
This metamorphosis appears to indicate that the new body still belongs directly to the phenol-group ; the constitution of diazodinitrophenol may perhaps be best understood by representing it by the formula C12 ( NO4)2 ) 02\ N , / The transformation of this compound into C12 ( ( NO4 &amp; ) )2 involves the decomposition of 2 equivs. of water , the oxygen of which appears to be consumed in the formation of secondary products of decomposition .
No trace of oxygen , either free or combined , could be found among the gaseous products ; the gas evolved consisting , according to a minute examination , of perfectly pure nitrogen .
Diazonitrochlorphenol .
Treatment in a similar manner of amidonitrochlorphenol H2\ C12 4 , C1NO C,12 NO )2\HN a new mixed derivative of phenol , as might have been expected , has furnished perfectly similar results .
The new compound thus obtained crystallizes in beautiful brown-red needles , of physical and chemical properties similar to those of the preceding compound .
It contains / H C1 H2 C1N,0 =C 2l Diazonitrophenol .
This substance is formed by submitting the ethereal solution of diphenamic acid / H 8\ C24 u,2N,2 , =C24 ( NO)2 04 , \(2 N)2 !
discovered by Gerhardt and Laurent , to the action of nitrous acid .
It is a yellow crystalline , very unstable compound , containing 24 , N6 12 C\24( NO , )2 4 it explodes with extreme violence at the temperature of boiling water .
The alkalies decompose it instantaneously with evolution of nitrogen and formation of products which are not yet analysed .
Action of Nitrous Acid upon Benzamic Acid .
The product obtained in a similar manner from benzamic acid is an orange-yellow crystalline precipitate , which constitutes a dibasic acid of the formula C24 H~ NO3 08 .
Its formation is illustrated by the following equation C24 1114 N20 , NO =3 HO+ C24 H,2 N308 .
2 equivs. of benNew acid .
zamic acid .
This acid is insoluble in water , alcohol , and ether .
It is dissolved without decomposition by the alkalies in the cold , giving rise to the formation of soluble crystalline salts , which produce precipitates with nitrate of silver and acetate of lead .
All these salts are decomposed on heating , with evolution of nitrogen gas .
The action of fuming nitric acid upon the dibasic derivative of benzamic acid produces a newr acid , furnishing with barium a splendid yellow crystalline salt .
The dibasic acid is likewise decomposed by hydrochloric acid ; in combination with this acid remains a body which can be sublimed in white crystals .
An alcoholic solution of benzamic ether when treated with nitrous acid yields the ether of the acid previously described .
The action of nitrous acid on alcoholic solutions of cuminamic and anisamic acids has likewise furnished new bodies , with the study of which I am at present engaged .
Action of Nitrous Acid on Phenylamine and Nitrophenylamine .
Phenylamine , when submitted to the modified nitrous acid-process , is transformed into a fusible body containing C24 HIll N , which is insoluble in water and easily soluble in alcohol .
This compound , which possesses feebly basic characters , is formed according to the equation C24 Hi , N2+ NO3 = 3HO + C24 I , N , .
k_ J. __ 2 equivs. of New comPhenylamine .
pound .
Nitrophenylamine ( the alpha-variety which is formed by the action of reducing agents upon dinitrobenzol ) , similarly treated , furnishes a compound crystallizing in beautifully red needles C24 H9 N5 08 the formation of which is represented by the equation C2 Hl , Nl 08 + NO , ,= 3HO + C2 , , H , N6 08 , 2 equivs. of NitroNew comphenylamine .
pound .
Treated with concentrated hydrochloric acid , the new compound reproduces nitrophenylamine .
The action of chlorine and bromine upon it gives rise to the formation of new crystallized derivatives .

