An Account of the great Earthquake experienced in Chili , on the 20th of February 1835 , " with a Map .
By Alexander Caldcleugh , Esq. , F.R.S. An idea formerly prevailed among the inhabitants of Chili , that the earthquakes of those regions take place at certain regular periods 3 but it is now sufficiently proved , from the numerous catastrophes of this kind which have occurred during the present century , that they may happen indiscriminately at all times , and in all states of the at ?
mosphere .
The author is disposed to place but little reliance on most of the supposed prognostics of these convulsions : but he mentions that , previously to the earthquake described in the present paper , there were seen immense flocks of sea birds , proceeding from the coast to ?
wards the Cordillera , and that a similar migration had been noticed prior to the great shock of 1822 .
From his own observations , he concludes that the barometer usually falls shortly before any considerable shock , and that it afterwards rises to its ordinary mean height .
Both before , and also at the time of the convulsion , the volcanos of the whole range of the Cordillera were observed to be in a state of extra ?
ordinary activity .
The earthquake began at half-past eleven o'clock in the morning of the 20th of February .
The first oscillations of the earth were gen ?
the , and attended with little noise : they were succeeded by two extremely violent tremors , continuing for two minutes and a half , the principal direction of the motion being from south-westto north-east ; and they were attended by aloud report , apparently proceeding from the explosions of a volcano to the southward .
All the buildings of the town of Conception were thrown down during these undulations .
At the expiration of half an hour , when the inhabitants , who , on the first alarm , had fled to the neighbouring heights , were preparing to return to their houses , it was observed that the sea had retreated to such a distance that the ships in the harbour were left dry , and all the rocks and shoals in the bay were exposed to view .
At this pe ?
riod an immense wave was seen slowly advancing towards the shore , and , rolling majestically onwards , in ten minutes reached the city of Conception , which was soon overwhelmed in a flood of an altitude of 28 feet above high-water mark .
The few persons who had remained in the town had but just time to make their escape , and to behold from the rising grounds , the complete submersion of the city .
All objects that were movable were swept away into the ocean by the reflux of this great wave , which was succeeded by several similar , but smaller 2 d waves , completing the work of destruction , and leaving behind them , on their final retreat , a scene of universal havoc and desolation .
The island of Santa Maria , which is situate to the southward of the bay of Conception , and is about seven miles broad , and two long , re ?
mained , after the earthquake , permanently elevated at least ten feet ahove its former position ; and a similar change was found to have taken place with regard to the bottom of the sea immediately surrounding the island .
The amount of this elevation was very accurately ascertained by the observations of Capt. Fitzroy , wTho had , previously to the earthquake , made a careful survey of the shores of that island ; thus supplying the most satisfactory and authentic testimony to this important fact .
The author gives , in the course of the paper , several particulars re ?
lating to the effects of the earthquake in different parts of the Chiiian coast ; the oscillations appearing to have extended to the north as far as Coquimbo , and to the east as far as Mendoza , at the ridge of the great chain of the Andes .
Vessels navigating the Pacific Ocean , within a hundred miles of the coast , experienced the shock with considerable force .
Its influence was very perceptible in the island of Juan Fernandez , a basaltic mass 360 miles distant from the coast ; as was shown by the sudden elevation and subsidence of the sea , which at one time rose 15 feet above the usual level , carrying all before it .

