335 The Spectrum of Scandium and its Relation to Solar Spectra .
By A. Fowler , A.R.C.S. , F.R.A.S. , Assistant .
Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science and Technology , South Kensington .
( Communicated by Sir William Crookes , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 23 , \#151 ; Read June 25 , 1908 .
) ( Abstract .
) The greater part of this investigation of the spectrum of scandium under different experimental conditions has been based on purified scandia , generously placed at the authors disposal by Sir William Crookes .
The principal results are as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The arc spectrum of scandium consists of two distinct sets of lines , , which behave very differently in solar spectra .
Each set includes both strong , and faint lines .
2 .
Lines belonging to one set correspond with the enhanced lines of other elements , notwithstanding that they appear strongly in the ordinary arc spectrum\#151 ; * ( ?
) These lines are very feeble or missing from the arc-flame spectrum , and are strengthened in passing to the arc , the arc in hydrogen , or the spark .
( ?
) They occur as relatively strong lines in the Fraunhofer spectrum .
( c ) They are weakened in the sun-spot spectrum .
( d ) They occur as high-level lines in the chromosphere .
3 .
The remaining lines show a great contrast when compared with the first group\#151 ; ( a ) They are relatively strong lines in the arc-flame .
( \amp ; ) They are very feebly represented in the Fraunhofer spectrum .
( c ) The stronger lines are prominent in the sun-spot spectrum .
( d ) They have not been recorded in the spectrum of the chromosphere .
4 .
The special development of the enhanced lines in the Fraunhofer spectrum , together with their presence in the upper chromosphere , indicates that the greater part of the scandium absorption in the solar spectrum originates at a higher level than that at which the greater part of the iron absorption is produced .
5 .
The discussion of scandium lines indicates that while in the case of some elements solar identifications are to be based chiefly on arc lines , in z 2 336 Vapour-pressure and Osmotic Pressure of a Volatile Solute .
others it is the enhanced lines which may be expected to show the most important coincidences .
6 .
The flutings which occur in the arc and arc-flame do not appear when the arc is passed in an atmosphere of hydrogen .
As suggested by Thalen , they are probably due to oxide of scandium .
Tables are given , which show the lines of the arc spectrum from 3930 to 6580 , the positions of the oxide flutings , and comparisons of the principal lines of the two classes with the sun , sun-spots , and chromosphere .
On the Vapour-pressure and Osmotic Pressure of a Volatile Solute .
By H. L. Callendar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics at the Imperial College of Science and Technology .
( Received June 17 , \#151 ; Read June 25 , 1908 .
) It follows by a method given in a recent paper by the author that if the osmotic membrane be assumed to be impermeable to the solute , the formula for the change of vapour-pressure of a volatile solute with hydrostatic pressure , and also the formula for the osmotic pressure which is deduced from it , must be the same as the formula for a non-volatile solute , and should not contain any terms depending on the vapour-pressure of the solute , except in so far as it may affect the hydrostatic pressure of the solution .
If , on the other hand , an osmotic membrane is regarded as a vapour-sieve , permeable to the vapour of the solution but not to the liquid phase , the equation takes a different form , depending on the concentration of the constituents in the vapour-phase .
If ch C2 , etc. , be the concentrations of the constituents in grammes per gramme of the vapour , and if Ui , U2 , etc. , be the specific volumes of the constituents in the solution , the change of total vapour-pressure dp of the solution for a change of hydrostatic pressure dP is given by the relation , 2cU dP = v dp , where v is the specific volume of the whole vapour-phase .
If only one constituent is volatile , this relation reduces to the form U dV = v dp for that 'Constituent .

