The author observes that in studying the physiology of the Mollusca , more satisfactory results may generally be obtained by tracing the organization connected with each important function , through different families , than by complete dissections of individual species $ and , by thus connecting the study of function with that of structure , the zoologistis led to more certain inferences relating to those habits , the knowledge of which the pelagic character of the animal , and the difficulty of direct observation , would otherwise have rendered unattainable .
The present paper is devoted to the anatomical investiga ?
tion of the organs by which the food is received into the bodies of certain Mollusca .
The herbivorous Mollusca which the author has examined have three modes of feeding .
Some , as the Trochuscrassus , browse with opposite horizontal jaws : others , as the Turbo littoreus , rasp their food with an armed tongue stretched over an elastic and moveable support : while others again , as the Patella vulgata , gorge it entire .
The author enters into a minute anatomical description of the organs of manducation and deglutition , and also of that part of the nervous system situated in the neighbourhood of these organs , in each of these respective Mollusca , ?
illustrated by numerous drawings .
He gives in each case a particular account of the mode of dissection , with a view to direct succeeding observers to obtain a distinct view of the parts he describes , and to verify the conclusions he has himself obtained .
He next notices a considerable modification in the structure of these organs which is presented in the Chiton .
In this animal he finds a pair of simple lateral jaws , rather membranous than cartilaginous .
Another variety of structure adapted for gorging food is met with in the Patella mammillaris , where there is simply a very muscular mouth and pharynx , but neither cartilagc , tongue , nor hard part of any kind .
The apparatus by which the Buccinum Lapillus drills through shells in order to obtain its food , and the process it employs for that purpose , are next investigated ; and that of the Buccinum undatum is particularly examined with the same view , the structure of the latter being very fully displayed .
The author hopes to be enabled to pursue these inquiries with respect to other tribes of Mollusca at some future period .

