" Preliminary Report of the Scientific Exploration of the Deep Sea in H.iMl .
Surveying-vessel 'Porcupine , ' during the Suminnerof 1869 , " conducted by Dr. CARPENTER , V.P.R.S. , Mr. J. GWYN JEFFRLEYS , F.R.S. , and Prof. WYVILLE THOMSON , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1869 .
PART 1 .
INTRODUCTrON .
page Preliminary Proceedings.397 Equipment ... ... ... ... ... .
, 403 NARRATIVE .
First Cruise ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .416 Second Cruise ... ... ... ... ... ... .,.,. .
423 Third Cruise ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .434 GENERAL RESULTS .
Physics and Chemistry ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... , , , ... , .
, ... , .
, .
, .
, ... ,.I453 APPENDICES .
1 .
Summary of ResuLlts of Observations on Samples of Sea-Nwater , made on board H.M.S. ' Porcupine .
' By William L. Carpenter , B.A. , B.Sc. 481 2 .
Analyses of Samples of Sea-water collected during the Third Cruise of H.M.S. ' Porcupine .
' By Dr. Frankland , F.R.S. .
, .
, .
, 4-88 3 .
Analyses of Samnples of the Deep-Sea-Bottom , collected in the Dredgingoperations of H.M.S. ' Porcupine .
' By David Forbes , F.R1S ... ... ... ... ... , 490 INTRODUCTION .
PRE : LIMINARY PROCEEDINGS .
the following Extracts from the Minutes of the Council of the Royal Society set forth the origin of the I Porcupine ' Expedition , and the objects which it was designed to carry out .
JanuarY 21 , 1869 .
The Preliminiary Report of the Dredging Operations conducted by , Drs. Carpenter and Wyville Thomson ( in the ' Lightning ' ) havingo been considered , it was Resolved , Tbat , looking to the valuable results obtaiined from these Marine Researches , restricted in scope as they:have been in a first tr-ial , the President and Council consider it most desirable , with a view to the advancement of Zoology and other branches of science , that the exploration should be renewed in the course of the ensuing stummer , and carried over a wider area ; and that the aid of TI-er Majesty 's Government , so liberally afforded last year , be again requested in furtherance of the undertaking .
, Resolved , -That a Comnittee be appointed to report to the Council on the measures it will be advisable to talk in order to carry the foregoing resolution most advantageously inlto effect .
The Committee to consist of the President and Officers , with Dr. Carpenter , Mr. Gwyn Jeifreys , and Captain Richards .
; February 18 , 1869 .
Read the following Report of the Committee on Marine Researches : CC The Committee appointed by the Council on the 21st of January , to consider the measures advisable for the further prosecution of Researches into the Physical and Biological Conditions of the : Deep Sea in the neighbourhood of the British Coast , beg leave to Peport as follows : " The results obtained by the Dredgings and Temperature-Soundings carried on during the brief Cruise of H.M.S. 'Light-ning ' in August and September 1868 , takeln in coinexion with those of the Dredgings recently prosecuted unider the direction of the Governments of Sweden and of the United States , and with the remarkable Temperature-Sounl-dings of Captain Shortland in the Arabian Gulf , have coinelusively shown " 1 .
That the Ocean-bottom , at depths of 500 fathoms or more , presents a vast field for research , of which the systematic exploration can scarcely fail to yield results of the highest interest and importance , in regard alike to Physical , Biological , and Geological Science .
" 2 .
That the prosecution of such a systematic exploration is altogether beyond the reach of private enterprise , requiring , means and appliances which can only be furnished by Governml-ent .
" It may be hoped that Hler Majesty 's Government may be induced at some future time to consider this work as one of the special duties of the British Navy ; which possesses , in .
the world-wide distribution of its Ships , far greater opportuinities for such researches than the Navy of any other counitry .
" At present , however , the Commlttee consider it desirable that the Royal Society should represent to Hler Majesty 's Governmenit the importance of at once following up the suggestions appended to Dr. Carpenter 's 'Preliminary Report ' of the Cruise of the 'Lightning , ' by instituting , during the corning season , a detailed survey of the deeper part of the Ocean-bottom between the North of Scotland and the Faroe Islands , and by extending that survey in both a N.E. and a S. W. direction , so as thoroughly to investigate the Physical and the Biological conditions of the two Suibmarinie Provinces included in that area , which are characterized by a strongly marked contrast in Climate , with a corresponidinag dissimilarity in Animal Life , and to trace this climatic clissimilarity to its source ; as well as to carry down the like survey to deptns much greater than have been yet explored by the Dredge .
" This , it is believed , can be accomplished without difficulty ( unless the weather should prove extraordinarily unpropitious ) by the employment of a suitable vessel , provided with the requisite appliances , between the middle of May and the middle of September .
The Ship should be of sufficient size to furnish a Crew of which each 'watch ' could carry on the work continuously without undue fatigue , so as to take the fullest advantage of calm weather and long summer days ; and should also provide adequate accommodation for the study of the specimens when freshly obtained , which should be one of the primary objects of the Expedition .
As there would be no occasion to extend the Survey to a greater distance than ( at the most ) 400 miles from land , no difficulty would be experienced in obtaining the supplies necessary for such a four months ' cruise , by running from time to timrle to the port that might be nearest .
Thus , supposing that the Ship took its departure from Cork or G-alway , and proceeded first to the channiel between the British Isles and Rockall Bank , where depths of from 1000 to 1300 fathoms are known to exist , the Dredgings and Temperature-Soundings could be proceeded with in a northerly direction , until it would be convenient to make Stornoway .
Taking a fresh departure from that port , the exploration might then be carried on over the area to the N.W. of the Hebrides , in which the more moderate depths ( from 500 to 600 fathoms ) would afford greater facility for the detailed survey of that part of the Ocean-bottom on which a Cretaceous deposit is in progress the Fauna of this area having been shown by the ' Lightning ' researches to present features of most especial interest , while the careful study of the deposit may be expected to elucidate many phenomena as yet unexplained which are presented by the ancient Chalk Formation .
A month or six weeks would probably be required for this part of the Survey , at the end of which time the vessel might again runi to Stornoway for supplies .
The area to the North and N.E. of Lewis should then be worked in the like careful manner ; and as the 'c old area ' would here be encountered , special attention should be given to the determination of its boundaries , and of the sources of its climatic peculiarity .
These would probably require the extension of the survey for some distance in a N.E. direction , which would carry the vessel into the neighbourhood of the Shetland Isles ; and Lerwick would then be a suitable port for.supplies .
Whatever time might then remain would be advantageously employed in dredging at such a distanee round the Shetlands as would give depths of from 250 to 400 fathoms , Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys 's dredgings in that locality having been limited to 200 fathoms .
" The Natural-I-Iistory work of such an Expedition should be prosecuted under the direction of a Chief ( who need not , however , be the same throughout ) , aided by two competent Assistants ( to be provided by the Royal Society ) , who should be engaged for the whole Cruise .
Mr. Gywn Jeffreys is ready to take charge of it during the first five or six weeks , say , to the end of June , when Professor Wyville Thomson would be prepared to take his place ; and Dr. Carpenter would be able to join the Expedition early in August , remaining , with it to the endIt would be a great ad2 i vantage if the Surgeon appointed to the Ship should have sufficient knowledge of Natural History , and sufficient initerest in the inquiry , to participate in the work .
" The experience of the previous Expedition will furnish adequlate gutidance as to the appliances which it would be necessary to ask the Government to provide , in case they accede to the present application .
" I With reference to the Scientific instruments and apparatus to be provided by the Royal Society , the Committee recommend that the detailed consideration of them be referred to a Special Committee , consisting of Gentlemen practically conversant with the constructioni and working of such instruments .
" Resolved , -That the Report now read be received and adopted , and that application be made to HIer Majestv 's Government accordingly .
The following Draft of a Letter to be transmitted by the Secretary to the Secretary of the Admiralty was approved : " The Royal Society , Burlington Ihouse , February 18 , 1869 .
" SIR , -Referring to the ' Preliminiary Report ' by Dr. Carpenter of the Results of the Deep-Sea Exploration carried on during the brief cruise of Her Majesty 's Steam.vessel 'Lightning ' in August and September last , which has already been transmitted for the consideration of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty-I am directed by the President and Council of the Royal Society to state that , looking to the valuable information obtained from these Marine Researches , although comparatively restricted in duration and extent , they deem it most desirable , in the interests of Biological and Physical Scienice , and in no synall degree also for the advancement of Hydrographical knowledge , that a fresh exploration should be entered upon in the enisuing summer , and extended over a wider area ; and they now desire earnestly to recommend the matter to the favourable consideration of My Lords , in the hope that the aid of Her Mlajesty 's Government , which was so readily and liberally bestowed last year , may be afforded to the undertaking now contemplated , for which such suipport would be indispensable .
In favour of the practicability and probable success of the proposed freshi explorationl , I am directed to explain that the objects to be aimed at , as well as the couirse to be followed and the miieasures to be employed for their attainment , have rmainly beeni suggested by the observations made and the experience gained in the last Expedition .
" Further informationi as to the proposed exploration will be found in the Report , herewith transmitted , of a Committee to whose conisideration the subject was referred by the Council .
" It is uniderstood that the requisite Scientific Apparatuis and the remuineration of the Assistants to be employed would be provided by the Royal Society .
With regard to the appliances which Her Majesty 's GoMvernment may be asked to provide , the experience of the previous expedition will furnish adequate guidance , whenever the general scheme may be approved .
It has appeared to the President and Council , that if the ship required for the proposed service could be provided by the tenmporary einployment of one of Her Majesty 's Surveying Vessels now in conimmissioni , anything beyond a trifl-ing , outlay on the part of the Government would be rendered unnecessary .
" I remain , " Your obedient Servant , " ' W. SHARPEY , M.D. , " 'he Secretary to the Admiiralty .
" Sec. B.S. " Resolved , -That a Committee be appointed to consider the Scientific Apparatus it will be desirable to provide for the proposed Expedition .
The Committee to consist of the P'resident and Officers , with Dr. Carpenter , Captain Richards , Mr. Siemens , Dr. Tyndall , and Sir Charles Wheatstone , with power to add to their number .
That a sum of ?
200 from the Government Granit be assigned to Dr. Carpenter for the further prosecution of Researches into the T'emperature and Zoology of the Deep Sea .
M1arch 18 , 1869 .
An oral communication was made by the Tlydrographer to the effect that the Lords Commissioners of the Admire alty had acceded to the request conveyed in lDr .
Sharpey 's letter of Feb. 18 ; that I-i.M .
Surveying-vessel 'Porcupine ' had been assigned for the service ; and that the special equipment needed for its efficient performance was proceeding under the directioni of her Commanlder , Capt. Calver .
A4pril 15 , 1869 .
Read the following Letter from the Admiralty : " Admiralty , 19 March , 1869 .
" SiR , -With reference to previous correspondence , I am commanded by My Lords Commissioners of the Admliralty to acquaint you that Dr. Carpenter and his Assistants , who have been deputed by the Royal Society to accompany the Expedition about to be dispatched to the neighbourhood of the Faroe Isles for the purpose of investigating the bottom of the Ocean by means of deep-sea soundings , will be entertained whilst embarked on board the ' Porcupince ' i the Government expense .
I am , Sir , " Your obedienit Servant , " c W. G. ROMAINE .
" " The President of the Royal Society .
" June 17 , 1869 .
Read the following Report : " The Committee appointed Feb. 18 , 1869 , to consider the Scienitific Apparatus it will be desirable to provide for the proposed Expeditioni for MVIarinie Researches , beg leave to lay before the Council the following Report : " ' The chief subjects of Physical Eniquiry which presented themselves as interesting on their own account , or in relationi to the existence of Life at great depths , were as follows " ' ( 1 ) The Temperature both at the bottom and at vrarious depths between that and the surface .
" ( 2 ) The nature and amnount of the dissolved Gases .
" ( 3 ) The amount of Organic matter contained in the water , and the niature and amnount of the Inorganic salts .
" ( 4 ) The amount of Light to be found at great depths .
" Among these subjects the Committee thought it desirable to confine therrmselves in the first instance to such as had previously to some extent beern takenl in band , or could pretty certainly be carried out .
" CThe determination of Templratures has hitherto rested chiefly upon the registration of minimum Thermometers .
It is obvious that the temperature registered by minimum thermometers sunLk to the bottom of the sea , eveni if their registration were unaffected by the pressure , would only give the lowest temperature reached somewhere between top and bottom , not necessarily at the bottom itself .
The temperatures at various depths might indeed , provided they nowhere iniereased on going deeper , be determined by a series of miniinimum thermometers placed at different distanees along the line , though this would inlvolve considerable difficulties .
Still , the liability of the index to slip , and the probability that the indication of the therinometers would be affected by the great pressure to which they were exposed , rendered it very desirable to corntrol their inldications by any indepenident method .
" Two plans were proposed for this purpose , onie by Sir Charles Wheatstone , and one by Mr. Siemenis .
Both planis inivolved the employment of a voltaic cuirrent , excited by a battery on deck ; and required a cable for the conivevance of inisulated wires .
The former plan depelnded upon the action of aln imnmersed Breguet 's thermometer , which by anl electro-mechanical arrangement was read by an indicating instrtument placed on deck .
The latter plan made the indication of temperature depend on the existence of a thermal variation in the electric resistaniee of a conducting wire .
It rested on th-ie equalization of the derived currents in two perfectly similar partial circuits , containing each a copper wire running the whole length of the cable , the sea , and a resistance-coil of fine platinumwire ; the coil in the one circuit being immersed in the sea at the enid of the cable , and that in the other being immersed in a vessel on deck , con1taining water the temperature of which could be regulated by the addition of hot or cold water , and cletermined by an ordinary thermometer .
T"he instruments required in Sir Charles Wlieatstone 's plan were more expertsive , and would take lornger to construct ; and besides , the C6mo mittee were unwilling to risk the loss of a somewhat costlv instrument in case the cable were to break .
On these accounts they thought it best to adopt the simpler plan proposed by Mr. Siemenls ; and the apparatus required for carrying the planl into execution is niow completed , and in use in the expedition .
" Meanwhile a plan had been devised by Dr. Miller for obviating the effect of pressure on a minimum thermometer , without preventing access to the stem for the purpose of setting the index .
It consists in enclosing the bulb in an outer bulb rivetted-on a little way up the stem , the interval between the bulbs being partly filled with liquid , for the sake of quicker conduction .
The Committee have had a few miniimum thermometers constructed on this principle , which have been found to answer perfectly .
The method is described in a short paper which will be read to the Society to-morrow .
" For obtaining specimens of water from any depth to which the dredging extends , the Committee have procured an instrument constructed as to its leading features 6n the plan of that described by Dr. Marcet in the Philosophical Transactions for 1819 , and used successfully in the earlier northern expeditions .
" Mr. Gwyn Jeifreys is I1ow out on the first cruise of the ' Porcupine , ' the vessel which the Admiralty have sent out for the purpose , and is accompanied by Mr. W. L. Carpenter , B.Sc. ( soln of Dr. Carpenter ) , who undertakes the general executionl of the physical and chemical part of the inquiry .
A letter has beenl received by the President from Mr. Jeffreys , who speaks highly of the zeal and efficiency of Mr. Carpenter .
The thermometers protected according to Dr. M1iller 's plan , and the instruiment for obtaining specimens of water from great depths , have beenl found to work satisfactorily in actual practice .
Mr. Siemens 's instrument was not quite ready when the vessel started oln her first cruise , and was not on board when the above letter was written .
The gas-arnalyses have been successfully carried on , notwithstanding the motion of the vessel .
From a letter subsequently received from Mr. Carpenter , it appears that Mr. Siemens 's apparatus , so far as it has as yet been tried , works in perfect harmony with the thermometers protected according to Dr. Miller 's plan .
" " June 16 , 1869 .
" lResolved , -That the Report now read be received and entered on the Alinutes .
EQ UIPMENT .
1 .
The equipment of the 'Porcupine ' for the purposes of Deep-sea Sounding and Dredging was devised on the basis of the experience gained in previous Deep-sea Sounding Voyages ( especially in that of the 'I Hydra'* ) , and in the ' Lightning ' Expedition.-As it was considered advisable by Capt. Calver that provision should be made for carrying on Souncding and D)redging at either end of the ship , a " derrick " ( A C ) with an " accumulator " * ( E F ) was rigged out both at the bow and the stern , on the plan showln in the accompanying figure .
Fig. l. 0 An / 4/ &lt; .S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ _~3 at / , / ... ,./ , _ / /~~~W_= 2 .
An ample supply of Sounding-line was provided , specially manufactured for the purpose ; this line , made of the hest Italian heimp , althoughi no more than 08 inch in circumference , bears a straini of 12 cwt .
For Souindings within 1000 fathoms ' depth , it was found most convenienit to employ anl ordinary cylindrical Deep-sea Lead weighing I cwt .
, having at its base a conical cup for bringing up a riid or sand from the bottom , which is furnished with a circular lid that falls downl cand closes it in when the lead strikes.-Above the Lead a Water-bottle ( ? ?
19 ) was attached to the line , by which a sample of sea-watercould be broughtup from the bottom or from any intermediate depth .
Anld above this again there were attached two or more Thermometers , enclosed in cylindrical copper cases having holes at the top and bottom through which the sea-water streams upwards as the lead descends .
3 .
The Sounding-lead with its appurtenances is allowed to descend as rapidly as it can carry ouit the linie ; but instead of deseenlding at a constantly acceleratinog rate , it requtires more time for every additional 100 fathoms ; this retardationi being due , not , as is po)ularly suipposed , to an increase in the density of the water* , but to the friction of the soundinglilne in its descent , which of course increases with every additional fathom that riuns out .
It is this friction that produces the chief strain upon the line when the 1ead is being drawn up , and renders great caution requisite in regulating the rate of the reeling-in which is effected by the donkey .
engine .
4 .
For the deeper Soundings , the 'H ydra ' Apparatus was employed .
The essential prilnciple of this is the same with that of all the other forms of Deep-sea Souinding apparatus now in use ; the weights or sinkers being so attached as to be let go by a mechaniical contrivaniee when it touches the bottom , so that the line is relieved from the duty of raising them to the surface } the rod or tube alone , with the water-bottle and thermometers , being brought up by it .
For Soundings at depths of from 1000 to 1500 fathoms , two sinkers , each of 112 lbs. , were enmployed ; and for yet deeper soundings three were used .
The peculiarity of the Hllydra ' apparatus consists partly in the mechanical contrivarnce for the , detaclinent of the sinkers ; and partly in the conistruction of the rod which carries them , this being a strong tube fuirnished with valves that open upwards , so as to allow the water to stream through it freely in , its descent , whilst they enielose the mud or sand inito which the tube is forced on striking the bottom before the siIker is detachedt .
a vessel , however slowly it might be moving through the water , wouid cause the dredgeline to part , if the strain were sudden instead of gradual .
This is so trifling , even at 2-miles depth , as not to equal the difference in density betwean fresh and salt water ; beiug estimated by Dr. Mliller at certainily not more tbaii 1-47th cf its olume , whilst sea-water of sp. gr. 1-027 is 1-37th heavier than fresh water .
tA detailed account of this Apparatus will be fotunid il the " 1 Sountling Voyage of H.M.S. ' Hlydra , ' " already referred to .
5 .
Every one of the numerous deep Soundings obtained in this Expeclition was taken , not only uncder the superintendence , but actually by the hanids , of Capt. Calver himself ; of whose skill in the conduct of this operation(which often requires great iiciety in the management of the vessel , so as to secuire a good up-and-down direction of the line ) it is enough to say that it is worthy of the distiniguiished Service to which he belongs , and to his high positioni in it .
Not a single fathom of line has beeni lost , atid not a single iistj-umeintu has suffered cdanage , throughout the whole Expedition .
6 .
The Dredges supplied to the ' Porcupine ' by the Admiralty were colstructed upon the model of those which we.1e found to work best in the 'Liohtnino , ' Expedition .
The experienee of the Fir st Cruise , however , in which the dredgi ng was carried down to more than twice the depth .
attained last year , led Capt. Calver to have a still heavier dredge constructed at Belfast , upon a soimewhat differenit patterni ; and it was with this that the very deep Dredgings of the Second cr Luise were esxecuted , by which the conidition of the sea-bottoma was successfully investigated at a depth of 2435 fathoms ( ? ? ? ?
4 5-50 ) .
na mple supply of stroong Dredge-rope was provided ; and a very simple and coinveniient arrancgement was de -ised by Capt. Calver for hanging this in coils upon pins attached to thie inner side of the quarter-deck bulwarlks ( ? ?
46 ) , so that the three neatiecal miles of linle require( for the deepest Dredging could be thus disposed without at all encumberingg the deck , and in a manner which enabled it to be most convenieiltly hanidled both in paying-out and reeling-in , with the additiolal advantage of keeping it reimarkably -free froi " kinks .
7 .
An importanit addition to the Dredging-apparatus , which was devised by Capt. Calver befove the cowamencement of the -'hird cruise , will be described in its proper place ( ? ?
63 ) .
The result of its employmenit was so extraordiinary , that nio deep dredging can hereafter be accounted of any valuie in which it has not been used ; and it Is only now to be regretted that the idea had not presenlted itself earlier , s0 as to have been carried out in the First and Seco:nd Craises .
8 .
The whole of this equipme mt would have beein ineffective if a suitable Donkey-engine had not been supplied for working it .
Thke e.xperience of the ' Lightningo ' had shown that a sinagle-cylinder enginie is not adapted for this purpose , being liablbe to stop at either end of its stroke when a heavy strain is put on the drum , and them moving onwards with a jerk , so as to throw oin the line a tension which may very probably cause it to part .
It was therefore urged upon .
the Authorities at Voolwich that a doublecylinder engine should be supplied to the ' Porcupine ' ; and a 'donkey ' on this plan was accordingly fixed , whih proved most et-filenit .
Nothing could exceed the steadiaess of its working , or the facility with which its speed and power could be regulated in accordance wi-th the purposes to * This is nearly equal to the height of Milont Blanic ; and exceeds by more than 500 fathoms the depth from which thie Atlaitlic Cable was brought to the suLrface , which it was applied .
With the drum ordiniarily used it brought up on one occasion , from a depth of 767 fathoms , just hayJa ton of Atlantic mud , in a Dredge which , with its appurtenances , weighed 8 cwt .
, -making 18 cwt .
in the whole .
This was not the limit of its capability ; for by the substitution of a smaller drum a still greater power could be obtained , of course at the sacrifice of speed ; and it was by this means that the heaviest Dredge , containing 1-cwt .
of Atlalntic mud , was drawn up , by a rope of more than three nautical miles in lerigth , from a depth of 2435 fathoms ( ? ? ? ?
45-50 ) .
9 .
The working of the Dredge was superintended throughout by Capt. Calver , whose trained ability very early gave him so complete a mastery over the operationi , that lie found no difficulty in carrying it down to depths at which this kind of exploration would have been previously deemed out of the question .
It is impossible for us to speak too highly of the skill he displayed , or too warmly of the sympathy he slhowed in our work .
The placing the Dredge on a bottom nearly three miles from the surface , the working it while there , and the subsequent hauiling of it in , with its precious sample of the Life of the Ocean-bed at that vast depth ( all executed without the smallest failure , or even such a " hitch " as might have caused the loss of an entire dav 's work ) , is an achievement of which otur Commander might well be proud , if pride were in his nature .
That only one Dredge was lost during the whole Expeditioni affords amnple proof alike of the excellence of his arrangements and of the unwearying assiduity with which they were carried inlto effective operation .
We would here add that the other Officers of the ' Porcupine , ' viz. StaffComanmder Inskipp , Mr. Davidson , and Lieut. Browning , muost heartily and zealously seconded their Commander , in promoting alike the scientific objects of the Expedition and the welfare and comfort of all who were engaged in carrying them out .
10 .
With regard to the equipment of the Sllip , it only remains to be added that the Chart Room was assigned for the Scienitific work of the Expeditioni ; and that the accommodation it afforded ( though not all that could be desired ) enabled Chernical Anialyses and ilicroscopic observationl$ to be carried on at the samiie time .
1 1 .
The provision of the Apparatus needed for the Physical and Chemical eniquiries , which formed a special object of this tExpedition , having been placed by the Council of the Royal Society ( Mifinutes for Feb. 18 ) under the direction of a Committee " consisting of genltlemeni practically conversant with the construction and working of such instruments , " every arrangement was made which was considered expedient by the very eminent Authorities of which that Committee was composed .
The general conclusions at which they arrived are embodied in the Report ( p. 401 ) which they preselnted to the Council ( Minutes of June 17th ) ; but it seems desirable here to record in somewhat greater detail the nature of the preliminary enquiries made , and the arranlgements actually adopted .
12 .
It had been remarked in the Report of the " Lightning Expedition " ( Proceedings of the Royal Society , Dec. 17 , 1868 , p. 185 ) that while the existence of a minimum Temperature ( probably that of the bottom ) at least as low as 32 ' ( 0W Cent. ) , over a considerable area of which the depth was between 500 and 600 fathoms , had been conclusively established , the actual minimum might probably have been from 20 to 40 below that recorded by the The-rmometers employed , the pressure of 100 atmospheres , to which their bulbs were subjected at a depth of about 535 fathoms* , being very likely to alter the capacity of the bulbs to that extent .
" ' In any renewal of the enquiry , " it was added , " it will be of course clesirable that the Thermometric apparatus used should be specially protected fromii this source of error .
" 13 .
So sooni , therefore , as there was reason to believe that the application of the Counicil of the Royal Society for such renlewal would be acceded to by ITI .
M. Government , steps were taken to determine the precise amount of this error , and to clevise the best m-eans of preveniting it .
After consultation betweeni the Hlydrographer , Dr. Carpenter , and i Ir .
Casella ( the maker of Meteorological Inistruiments to the Admiralty ) , it was determiniied that an apparatuis should be constructed on the principle of the Bramalh Press ; in which Thermometers immersed in water should be submitted to hydraulic pressure , which could be gradually raised till it reached three tons on the squacre inch , its amounit being indicated by a pressure-gaulge as the experiment proceeded .
Mr. Casella further undertook to construct Thermometers with bulbs of extra thickness , in order that it might be ascertained when .
there the error arising from external pressure ( if such should be proved to exist ) could be kept in check by this simple expedient .
The question was at the same time made the subject of consideration by a Committee appointed by the Council of the Royal Society , as set forth in the Minutes already cited ( p. 402 , 403 ) ; and it was determined that trial shouLld be given to a plan proposed by Dr. W. A. fXTiller , which consists in the enclosure of the bulb of the Six 's Thermometer ( the form of Self-registering Thermometer that had been found by experience best adapted to Deep-sea Soundings ) in a second or outer bulb , sealed around the neck of the stem , - the space between the inner and outer bulbs being nearly filled with alcohol , and the greater part of the air being displaced from the small unlfilled space , by boiling the spirit before the outer bulb is sealed .
In this manner the inner bulb is protected from the influence of variations in externlal pressure upon the outer , the only effect of which is to alter the capacity of the unfilled space ; whilst chalnges of temperature in the mediuyi suirrounding the outer bulb are speedilv transmitted to the fluid corntaiined within the inner , by colnvection through the thin stratum of alcohol interposed between the two * .
Several Thermometers were constructed upon this plan by Mr. Casella ; and these Fig. 2 .
were tested in the pressure-apparatus , together with various instruments of the ordinary construction , as well as with instruments constructed by Mr. Casella with bulbs of extra thickness .
A preliminary trial having indicated ( 1 ) that the effect of hvdraulic pressure upon ordinaryThermometers ( as shown by the rise of the maximum index ) is always very considerable , though varying in amount according to the construction of the instrument , ( 2 ) that this effect cannot be prevented by an increase in the thickness of the bulb , 0-A and ( 3 ) that the rise of the maximum index in &lt; e thermometers protected according to Dr. Miller 's '_00 plan was comparatively trifling , -a series of com20-8-0 parisons between the " protected " and the " unprotected " instruments was very carefully con370 ducted under the direction of Staff-Commander 40-60 Davis of the Hydrographic Office ; who , having l had experience in Thermometric Soundings in Sir -50 James C. Ross 's Antarctic Expedition , felt spesocially interested in the determination of this ques70-30 tion .
In these experiments the difference between the ordinary unprotected Thermometers cono-20 structed by Mr. Casella for the Admiralty ( by s which the Temperature-Soundings had been taken in the ' Lightning ' Expedition ) , and protected / 00 Thermometers constructed on the same pattern in every other respect , was carefully inoted at gradually l increasing pressures , so as to determinie the amount of such difference at depths respectively corresponding to these pressures .
The question whether I the small elevation of the maximum index observed in the protected Tlhermometers is fairly attributable to an actual increment in the temperature of the water in which they are immersed , colnsequent upon the compression to which it is subjected during , the experiment , was carefully considered by Dr. MIiller ( Proceedings , toe .
cit. ) , who satisfied himself , by experiments devised for the purpose , that this is the true account of it , and that the inner bulb of these Thermometers is not altered in capacity in any appreciable degree by a pressure reaching to three tons on the square inch T. This pressure was found to senid up the maximum index of the best unprotected Thermometers made upon the Admiralty pattern as much as 100 ; whilst a pressure of 2tons on the squLare inch sent up the index of an ordinary Phillips 's maximunm mercurial therrnometer no less than 117 ? ?
5 .
14 .
A considerable number of Thermometers by differenit makers , incluiding six protected according to Dr. Miller 's plan ( all of them previously tested in the Pressure-apparatus ) , were supplied to the 'Porcupine ' by the Meteorological Department ; and during its earlier Cruises numerous comparative observations were made at different depths , with the view of determining the differences between the protected and various forms of unproteeted Thermometers at gradationally increasing depths , -such differences being here of course due to pressure onyiy The records of these observations , having been transmnitted to the Admiralty , were carefully reduced to curves by Capt. Davis , and compared with their differenices at corresponding pressures in the Pressure-apparatus ; with the result of showing ( when due allowance was made for the small increment of Temperature in the experiments ) such a close conformity , that it became obvious that the protected Miller-Casella thermometers might be thoroughly relied on for indicating the true temperature within I ' P ahr .
under any pressure not exceeding that to which they had been tested , -this being equivaleint to that of a column of Sea-water 2400 fathoms ( 4389 mrtres ) deep .
This happens to be almost exactly that of the deepest Sounding taken in the ' Porcupine ' Expeditioni , which was 2435 fathoms ( 4453 nTetres ) .
15 .
The thorough reliableness of this instrument having been thus demonstrated , it was considered uniinecessary to carry the comparative observations further ; and in the last Cruise two protected Thermometers were alone employed .
The excellence of these instruments may be inferred from the fact that they nevrei differed more than a few tenths of a degree ( Fahr.)t , and that after having travelled vertically downwards and upwards with the Sounding-apparatus to a total amount of nearly a hundred miles ( one of the Soundings having been taken at a depth of nearly three miles , and [ The results of a more elaborate series of investigations subsequently carried on by Staff-Commander Davis , which were comml-unicated to the Royal Society , May 19 , 1870 , load himn to believe that the small elevationi above alludLed to is ezot eqtirely accounted for by increment of Temp erature , and that it consequently indicates that some influence is still exerted on the iilnner buLlb by Pressure on the outer .
The elevation thus produtced , however , does not in any case amount to 10 ( Falir .
) ; and the error can be reduced to a scale , by the applicationi of which it can be easily corrected .
] 4 These small differences are probably due to sligl-t differences in the rate at which the instruiments took the temperature of the water around ; in which case the lower readS ilug would be the most correct.-Before lea1-ing Belfast on the Third Cruise , Prof. Wyville Thomson tested the condition of these Thermometers by immersing them in ice ; and they both recorded exactly 320 , several others at a depth of above two miles ) , they have been fouind to be in as good order as when they were first sent out by Mr. Casella .
WVhile this most satisfactory result is partly due to the careful handling of the apparatus by Capt. Calver , it is mainly attributable on the one hand to the excellence of the principle oln which the Thermometers are constructed , and on the other to the admirable workmanship of Mr. Casella ; for the records of previouis Temperature-Soundings show that the fracture of the bulbs of unprotected Thermometers at great depths was a very common occurrence , whilst the record of observations made in the ' Lightning ' Expedition " shows that the indications of Thermometers of less perfect construction often show a considerable discrepancy .
16 .
In concluding this account of the behaviour of the protected MillerCasella Thermometers under the most trying couditionis , it may be added that wherever the localities of the Temperature-Soundings taken with these instruments during the Third cruise of the 'Porcupine ' were the same ( or nearly so ) with those of the Temperature-Soundings taken in the 'Lightning ' Expedition , their correspondence roved to be very close , when the proper correction for the depths at which they were taken was applied to the latter ( ? ?
95 ) .
Thus the differences of temperature between the Warm and the Cold Areas indicated by those observatioust remained the sane , although the Temperatures recorded by the " 6 unprotected " Thermometers required to be reduced by from 20 to 30 to show the actual tempe .
ratures , -a recorded temperature of 460 at 650 fathoms in the W arm Area indicating a real temperature of 430 , while a recorded temperature of 320 at 550 fathoms in the Cold Area indicated a real temperature of about 29 80 .
17 .
As it was considered expedient by the CommiAttee ( p. 402 ) that a trial should be given to Mr. Siemens 's apparatus for the determination of deep-sea temperatures , this apparatus ( which he terms a Differential Thermometer ) was fitted on board the ' Porcupine , ' and provided with 1000 fathoms of a small cable about the size of the ordinary Sounding-line , which contained the two insulated wires necessary for the establishment of the two circuits to be brought into comparison .
The indications of this instrument depend upon the equalization of two currents transmitted through resistance-coils of fine platinuim wire ; one of these coils beirLg sent down at the end of the souniding-cable , whilst the other is immnersed in a vessel on , deck , the water in which can be gr aduially lowered in temiiperature by the addition of ice or the use of a freezing-mixture .
When the equalization of the currents is shown by the galvaniometer , the temperature of the water in the vessel on deck ( inidicated by an ordin ary thermometer ) will represent that of the stratum of the sea beneath , in which the resistance-coil is immersed at the time.-Nothing can be more perfect than the working of this apparatus when the Galvanometer rests on a fixed plane surface ; and its acecuracy and delicacy were satisfactorily proved by experiments carried on not * Proceedings of the Royal Society , Dec. 17 , 1868 , p. 172 , notes .
t Ibi(l .
p. 188 .
me ; ely on shore , but also on board the ' Porcupine ' when lying in dock or harbour .
But it could not be worked with the Galvaniometer supplied when there was the least roll of the vessel ; for it was then found impossible to make the zero observations requisite to indicate equilibrium , though Mr. WN .
L. Carpenter ( who had charge of the apparatus , p. 403 ) tried every expedient that circumstances admitted .
It is obvious , therefore , that this instrument cani only be made use of on board ship when the Galvanometer is so suspended as not to participate in the rolling or pitching of the vessel ; and it is to be hoped that Mr. Siemelns , with his wellknown ingenuity , may be able to devise the means of accomplishing this .
18 .
It may be well here to mention that as it was found impracticable to employ Mr. Siemens 's Differential Thermometer for the determination of the question whether the minimum temperature registered by the Thermometers is the actual bottom temiperature , or is the temperature of some initermediate stratum , this was effected by taking series of Temperature Soundings-with Thermometers sent downi to successively increasing depths in the same locality .
Such series were obtainied in each of the Cruises ; with the result , as will be shownl hereafter( ?
94 etseq .
) , of not merelyconfirming the conclusion advanced in the ' Lightning ' Report ( p. 189 ) that the minimum temperature is that of the bottom , but of affording a set of most important data for a general doctrine of the interchange between Equatorial and Polar waters in the great Oceanic basins .
19 .
The next subject considered by the Scientific Committee was the feasibility of constructing a vessel which should fill itself with Water , either at the bottom or at any initermediate depth , as might be required ; and which should bring such water to the surface without the loss of any of the Gases dissolved in it .
This might be easily accomplished , were it not for ( 1 ) the expansion which water takenl under great pressuire undergoes when that pressure is removed , the force of which would be sufficient to burst the strongest vessel that could be made ; and ( 2 ) the expansile force of the gases dissolved in it under great pressure , which would exert itself in the same direction .
Various plans were suggested for meeting this difficulty ; but it was conisidered that as time would not permit of the preparation of any but very easily constructed apparatus , it would be better on the present occasion to adopt a form of Water-Bottle suggested by the Hydrographer on the basis of the cylindrical copper cases used for the protection of deep sea thermometers , these having been found to bring uip specimnens of water whose turbid conditioni left no doubt that it had come from the stratum immediately covering the soft ocean-bottomn .
The Water-Bottle constructed on the H-ydrographer 's plai is a simple strong cylinder of brass , 26 inches long , and 23 inch in iriterior diameter , holding about 60 oz. of water .
In the disk which closes it in at each enid there is a circular aperture , into wihich a conical valve is accurately fitted .
While this bottle is descending through the water with the Sounding-Apparatus , the valves readily yield to the upward pressure , and a continuous current streams through it ; but so soon as the descent is checked , either by the arrival of the apparatus at the bottom , or by a stop put on the line from above , the valves fall into their places , and thus enclose the water that may fill the bottle at the moment .
The exFig .
3 .
A. B. Water-Bottle as seen at A externally , and at B in section ; drawn to a scale of one-eighth the actual size .
pansion of this water and of its dissolved gases , as the bottle is brought to the surface , causes a pressure from within , which lifts the upper valve so as to permit the escape of whatever part of the contents of the bottle may be in excess of its capacity .
The interior of the bottle was coated with varnish , to prevent the chemical action of the sea-water upon it.-The working of this very simple apparatus was found to be entirely satisfactory .
Abundant evidence was obtained that , when it descended to the bottom , it brought up bottom-water : thus , in the area of the " Globigerina-mud , " the water was slightly turbid , and deposited after a time a fine sediment ( which might be removed by filtration ) , that proved to consist almost entirely of extremely minute Globigerinw .
And hence it may be fairly inferred that when its descent was checked at any intermediate point , the water brought up in it would be derived from that stratum .
Although it cani scarcely be supposed that the whole amount of the gases dissolved in the very deep water is retained when the superincumbent pressure is removed , yet it may be inferred , from the slight excess which still usually presented itself , that the very deep water must include a greater proportion of gases than that taken at or near the surface .
20 .
A number of large glass bottles were provided , for bringing home samples of Sea-water taken in various localities and at different depths ; and of these Dr. Frankland kindly undertook to make careful analyses , which should show not merely the proportions of its Saline constituents , butwhat has recently come to be a point of most unexpected interest ( ? ?
23 ) the amounit of Organic matter it may contain .
The results of these analyses are stated in Appendix II .
21 .
But the determination of the nature and proportions of the dissolved Gases could only be effected by immediate analysis ; and it was considered by the Committee that it would be expedient to attempt this , notwithstanding the difficulties which might be expected to arise from the motion of the vessel .
A method devised by Dr. Miller , as most suitable to the circumstances , was carried into practical operation by Mr. W. L. Carpenter , who succeeded in working this apparatus so efficiently during the First Cruise , and obtained by means of it results of such singular inlterest , that it was considered desirable that the same system should be followed throughout the Expedition .
This work was therefore comnmitted in the Second Cruise to the charge of Mr. Hunter , Assistant to Prof. Andrews of Queen 's College , Belfast ; and it was carried on during the Third Cruise by Mr. P. Herbert Carpenter , according to the instructions he had received from Mr. Hunter , whom he had accompanied in the Second Cruise.-A general statement of the results obtained , which on the whole accorded well with each other , is included in the present Report ( Appendix I. ) ; particulars of the method employed , with details of the analytical results , and a fuiller discussion of their rationale , will be furnished hereafter by Mr. W. L. Carpenter .
22 .
The accurate working of a Balance on board a ship at sea being obviously impracticable , the Specific Gravity of every specimen of Deep-seawater brought up by the bottle was taken by IIydrometers specially constructed to indicate it within the required range to four places of decimals ; and this was compared with the Specific Gravity of Surface-water .
The determinations obtained by this method , however , of which the results are stated in Appendix I* , cannot be regarded as equal in accuracy to those obtained by the Balance ; and greater reliance , therefore , is to be placed on the Specific Gravities of the samples analyzed by Dr. Frankland ( Appendix II .
) .
23 .
Further , tests devised by Dr. Angus Smith to determine the amount of Organic matter ( 1 ) in a non-decomposing , and probably therefore an assimilable state , and ( 2 ) in a state of decomposition , were frequently applied ; with the remarkable result ( Appendix I. ) , which has been since fully confirmed by the elaborate analyses of Dr. Frankland ( Appendix II .
) , of indicating the universal presence of a highly Nitrogenous substance , such as may well be supposed to afford a direct supply of niutritive material to the Rhizopodic Fauna ( Sponges and Foraminivfera , with Bathybius ?
) of the Ocean-bottom , as was first suggested by Prof. Wyville Thomson in his Memoir on Iloltenia * 24 .
For the management of the Dredging-operations two Assistants were appointed on the recommendation of Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys , under whom both of them had previously worked : Mr. Laughrin of Polperro , an old .
Coastguard-man , and an Associate of the Linnean Society , for dredging and sifting ; and Mr. B. S. Dodd for picking out , cleaning , and storing the specimens collected .
Both did their respective shares of the work carefully and zealously .
25 .
The Sieves were conistructed under the direction of Mr. Jeifreys .
These were five in number , and were " nested " or fitted one within another , with a strong handle of galvanized iron affixed to the bottom sieve on each side ; so that the dredged material might pass through all the sieves at the same time , as they were worked in a large tub of sea-water on the deck .
Their frames were of oak ; and their lining was of copper wove-wire , the mesh of the top sieve being 2 holes to an inch , that of the next 4 holes , and of the succeeding sieves 8 , 16 , and 32 .
Each sieve was furnished with a beading round the inside rim , to prevent specimens remaining under the edges when the sieves were washed after each dredging ; the risk of intermixture of specimens obtained from different dredgings was thns avoided .
26 .
Two other kinds of Sieve were also found useful.-One was spherical , with a lid fastened inside by bolts ; its frame consisted of a strong network of copper ribs , which was lined with very file wire-gauze of the same metal , and it had a ring through which a line would pass .
Its use was to sift and wash away in the sea the impalpable mud got in large quantities at great depths ; so as to leave only for examination all organisms exceeding in size 1-36th of an inch , this being the diameter of the mesh in the wire-lining .
Some of the residuum or strainied mud was likewise preserved , after sifting the material in the usual way .
This contrivance , which we called the " globe-sieve , " saved a great deal of the time and useless labour expended in washing dredged material of that viscid kind through the ordinary sieves in a tub of sea-water , which soon becomes so tuirbid , that unless the tub is continlually emptied and refilled it is extremely difficult ( if possible ) to detect any specimens.-Another kind of sieve had a similar framework ; but the body was semiglobose , with an open funnel-shaped neck .
It was fastenled to a long pole , and served for catching Pteropods , Salpe , and other animals on the surface of the sea .
This went by the iname of the " scoop-sieve .
" 27 .
An ample supply of spirit , jars , and bottles was provided ; and the most conveniient storage-room was assigned for them that the small size of the vessel permitted .
28 .
The unexpected amount of the Collections made during each Cruise , and especially during the Third , put all these resources to a severe test ; and it is satisfactory to be able to state that nothing was found wanting which could not be supplied at the ports at which the ' Porcupine ' puit in .
29 .
The work of the Expedition was distributed , according to the plan originally marked out , into Three Cruises : thefirst of which was under the Scientific charge of Mr. Jeffreys , who was accompanied by Air .
W. L. Carpenter ; the second under the Scientific charge of Prof. Wyville Thomson , who was accompanied by iMr .
I-lunter ; and the third under the Scientific charge of Dr. Carpenter , who had the advantage of the companionship of Prof. Wyville Thomson , as well as of his son Mr. P. Herbert Carpenter .
The ground assigned to the First and Second Cruises , however , was somewhat different from that originally proposed ( p. 399 ) .
For as it was considered that the exploration of the " Porcupine Bank , " which lies about 150 miles to the west of Galway , and beyond which the water rapidly deepens to 1500 fathoms , would be likely to afford results of great value , and would present a very suitable locality for ascertaining to what depths Dredging could be successfu-lly carried down , it was arranged that this exploration , with that of the deep channel intervening between the British plateau and " Rockall Bank " should be the work of the First Cruise ; and that in the Second Cruise this explorationi should be carried on in a northerly and iiorth-westerly direction , so as to be connected with the work which had been assigned to the Third Cruise , viz. the more thorough and extended exploration of the region traversed in the 'Lightning ' Expedition .
-It will be seen hereafter ( ? ?
40 ) that it was by a change subsequently made in the direction of the Second Cruise that the most remarkable achievement in the whole Expedition was rendered possible , NARRATIVE .
FIRST CRUISE .
( Chart , Plate 4 .
) 30 .
The First Cruise of H.M.S. ' Porcuipine ' commenced on the 18th of May , and ended on the 13th of July .
It comprised the Atlantic coasts of Ireland , from the Skelligs to Rockall ( a distance of about 612 or 450 miles ) , Loughs Swilly and Foil on the north coast , and the North Channel on the way to Belfast .
The first dredging was made on our way round from Woolwich to Galway , on the 24th of May , about forty miles off Valentia , in 110 fathoms ; bottom sandv , with a little mud .
The Fauna was mostly Northern ; and the following are the more remarkable species then procured:-MOLLUSCA : Ostrea cochlear , Neaera rostrata , Verticordia aby8sicola , Dentalium abyssorum , Aporrhais Serresianus , Buccinum Ilumphreysianum , Murex im6ricatus , Pleurotoma carinata , and Cavolina trispinosa.-ECHINODERMATA : Echinus elegans , Cidaris papillata , and Spatangus Raschi.-ACTINOZOA : Caryophyllia Srnithii , var .
borealis .
Of these , Ostrea cochlear , Aporrhais Serresianus , and Murex imbricatus are Mediterranean species ; and Trochus granu.latus also imparted somewhat of a Southern character , although that species was afterwards found living in the Shetland district .
Ostrea cochlear is a small deep-water species of Oyster , and is one of the shells which M. Alphonse Milne-Edwards nioticed adhering to the TelegraphCable between Sardinia and Algiers , at a depth of about 1100 fathoms ( see 'Lightning Report , ' p. 182 ) ; but it has been found ( by Mr. Gwyn Jeifreys ) attached to the columns of the Temple of Jupiter Serapis at Pozzuoli near Naples , which are reputed not to have been submerged to any considerable depth .
The above results of this dredging will give a fair idea of the Fauna inhabiting the 100-fathom line on the West coast of Ireland .
31 .
After coaling at Galway we steamed southward , and ( the weather being very coarse and unpromising ) we dredged in Dingle Bay at a'depth of from 30 to 40 fathoms ; bottom rocky and muddy .
As before , in comparatively shallow water , we had two dredges out , one at the bow and the other at the stern ; as had been previously the practice of Mr. Jeffreys in his own yacht , when dredging at from 20 to 200 fathoms ' depth .
In Dingle Bay the dredges several times caught in rocks or large stolnes , but were saved by the usual yarn-stops , and by the extraordinary strength of the 2-inch Chatham rope which was used .
On one occasion , when the dredge was fast , the vessel , which is nearly 400 tonls ' burden , was pulled round and swung by the rope , as firmly as if she were at anchor and moored by a chain-cable .
HIere , again , the Mollusca were mostly Northern:-Siphonodentalium Lofotense , Chiton Ilanleyi , Tecturafulva , Odostomia clavula , Trophon truncatus , and Cylichna nitidula fall within this category ; while Efulima.subulata , Trophon muricatus , Pleurotoma attenuata , and Philine catena may be reckoned Southern species .
But the most remarkable shell obtained in this dredging was Montacuta Dawsoni , a species which had been described and figured by Mr. Jeffreys , from specimens found by Mr. Robert Dawson in the Moray Firth .
Of this species specimens were subsequently detected by Mr. Jeffreys in the Royal Museum at Copenhagen , in the collection of GEreenland shells made by the late Dr. II .
P. C. M6ller , as well as in Professor Torell 's collection of Spitzbergen shells at Lunid .
The species had been briefly described and noticed by Dr. M6ller in the addenda to his ' Index Molluscorum Grcenlandiw , ' as a " Testa bivalvis ; " but h-e did not give it any other name .
The size of the Greenland and Spitzbergen specimens is considerably greater than that of British specimens ; thus adding another to the numerous cases of a similar kind which habve from time to time been adduced by Mir .
Jeffreys as justifying his statenment that of those species of Mollusca which are common to Northern and Southern latitudes , and which inhabit the same bathymetrical zone , the Northern are usually larger than the Southern specimens .
It may perhaps be a not unfair inference that the origin of such species is Northern , and that they dwindle and become depauperated in proportion to the distance to which they have migrated or been transported from their ancestral homes .
32 .
The next week was occupied in sounding and dredging off Valentia and on the way toGalway , at depths varying from 85 to 808 fathoms ( Stations 2 to 7 ) .
The Fauna throughout was Northern ; and several interesting acquisitions were made in all departments of the Invertebrata .
Among these may be mentioned:-MOLLJUSCA : Nucula pugnila ( Norway ) , Leda frigida ( Spitzbergen and Fiinmark ) , Verticordia abyssicola ( Finmark ) , Silphonodentaliurn quinquangulare ( Norway and Mediterranean ) , and an undescribed species of Fusus , allied to F. Sabini.-ECHINODERMATA : the remarkable Brisinga endecacnemos , hitherto only known as a Northern form.-ACTINOZOA : Flabellum laciniatum , Edw. and J. ELaimeUlocyathus arcticus , Sars ( Norway and Shetland , as well as a Sicilian fossil ) , of which rare and delicate coral unusually perfect specimens were obtained .
That fine Shetland Sponge Phakellia ventilabrum was also met with thus far south , in 90 fathoms .
Manv of the most marked types of the deep-water CRusTACEA of the Shetland sea were here dredged ; while in company with these were Gonoplax rhomboids , Fab .
, a well-known Mediterraniean species , an undescribed and very fine Ebalia , a new species of the Mediterranean genus Ethusa , together with numerous Mysidea , Cumacea , and Anphiocla new to our Fauna .
Cyprinididce also were abundant on this ground .
The 808 fathoms ' dredging was then a novelty , being ( as we believed ) the greatest depth ever explored in that way .
The length of rope paid out was 1110 fathoms , and the time occupied in hauling in was fifty-five minutes .
The same proportionate time was observed in other dredgings during this cruise , viz. five minutes for every 100 fathoms of rope .
The dredge conitained about two hundredweight of soft and sticky mud , in appearance resembling " China clay .
" The animals brought up on this occasion were quite lively .
More than onie specimen was exanmined of a small Gastropod ( described and figured by Mr. Jeffreys as Lacuna tenella ) , which had very conspicuous eyes .
There was also a young and active specimeni of the large Norwegian Crab , Geryon tridens , Kroyer , which is very rare in the Scandinavian seas , and was the only North European Brachyuran which had not as yet been found in British waters .
-We had here , for the first time , an opportunity of comparing the temperatures indicated by Dr. Miller 's " protected " Thermometers , and those of the ordinary construction , at a considerable depth .
The minimum recorded by one of the former was 41-4 , whilst that recorded by one of the best ordinary thermometers was 450.2 .
As this difference of 3 ?
` 8 was almost exactly what the results of the experiments previously made had indicated as the effect of a pressure amounting to one ton on the square inch ( the pressure of a column of sea-water at 800 fathoms ' depth ) , this close coincidence gave us a feeling of great confidence in the practical working of the " protected " instrument .
33 .
We next applied ourselves to the examination of the sea-bed between Galway and the Porcupine Bank , as well as beyond the Bank , at depths ranging from 85 to 1230 fathoms ( Stations 10 to 17 ) .
All the Mollusca were Northern , except Aporr2-hais Serresianus ; and even that we are now inclined to consider identical with A. Macandree , which inhabits the coasts of Norway and Shetland , the latter appearing to be a dwarf variety or form .
The more remarkable species were , among MOLLUSCA , Limopsis aurita ( a wellknown tertiary fossil ) , Arca glacialis , Verticordia abyssicola , Dentalium abyssorum , Trochus cinereu-s , Fusus despectus , F. Islandicu-s , F. fenestratus , and Columbella haliaeeti ( a tertiary fossil ) ; among ECHINODERMATA , Cidaris papillata and Echinus Norvegicus ; and the fine branching Coral Lophohelia prolifera .
In the deepest dredging made in this part of the cruise ( Station 17 , 1230 fathoms ) , in which the minimum temperature ( showni by subsequent inquiry to be that of the bottom ) was 37 ? ?
8 , there occurred several new species and two new genera of the Area family , Trochus minutissimus of Mighels ( a North-American species ) having two conspicuous eyes , a species of Ampelisca ( Crustacean ) with the usual number of four eyes , comparatively gigantic Foraminifera , and siliceous Polycystina .
The FORAMINIFERA obtained in these and previous dredgings in deep water were of great interest .
A large proportion of them belonged to the Arenaceous group , in which the calcareous shell is replaced by a " test " formed of agglutinated sand-grains ; and of this group a large number of new types presented themselves , many of them very remarkable both for size and complexity of structure .
The Miliolines , as in the 'Lightning ' dredgings in the Warm area , were of exceedingly large size ; and the CJristellarians were both large and varied in form , their axis of growth presenting every gradation from the rectilineal to the spiral .
An enormous Fish ( Mola nasus ) , which is not uncommon on the coasts of Upper Norway , was slowly swimming or floating on the surface of the sea ; but we did not succeed in capturing it , for want of a harpoon .
34 .
We then put into Killibegs , Co. Donegal , and coaled there for our trip to Rockall , which is an isolated and conical rock , standing out of the Atlantic in Lat. 57 ? ?
35f , and Long. 13 ? ?
41 ' , at least 200 miles from the nearest land .
In anticipation of this trip requiring a clear fortnight , coals were stacked on the deck , in addition to the usual stowage in the bunkers , so as to provide a sufficient supply .
Some delay was caused by the non-arrival of a proper galvanometer to work Mr. Siemeins 's electrothermometric apparatus , which we were anxious again to try.-We left Donegal Bay on the 27th of June , and returned to the mainland on the 9th of July , after dredging during seven days at depths exceeding 1200 fathoms , and on four other days at less depths .
The greatest depth reached was 1476 fathoms ( Station 21 ) .
In this last-mentioned dredging we got several living Molluseca and other animals , a stalk-eyed Crustacean with two prominent and unusually large eyes , and a Ilolothurian of a lilac colour .
The bottom at the greater depths consisted of a fine clayey mud , which varied in colour ( in some cases being brownish , in others yellow , cream-colour , or drab , and occasionally greyish ) , and invariably having a greater or less admixture of pebbles , gravel , and sand .
The upper layer formed a flocculent mass , which appeared to be animal matter in a state of partial decomposition .
This was in all probability derived from the countless miultitude of Salpe , oceanic Hydrozoa , Pteropods , and other gelatinous animals , which literally covered the surface of the sea and filled our towing-net directly it was dipped overboard , and of which the remains must fall to the bottom after death .
Such organisms doubtless afford a vast store of nutriment to the inhabitants of the deep .
35 .
Dredging in such deep water is not accomplished without difficulty .
The dredge must be unusually heavy , to overcome the resistance to its sinking occasioned by the friction of the immense lexngth of dredge-line paid out ; and when it reaches the bottom , it sinks by its own weight inito the mud , like an anchor .
This would give only the same result as the cup-lead or any sounding-machine , but on a larger scale ; and it would tell us very little about the Fauna .
Further , if by the drift-way of the vessel , or by a few turns of the engine now and then , we are enabled to scrape the surface of the sea-bed , the dredge gets choked up with the flocculent mass above described .
The fertile ingenuity of our experieniced and excellent Commander devised a method which was a great improvement in deep-sea dredging , and which elnabled uls to obtain at least a sample of the sulbstratum .
This consisted in attaching to the rope two iron weights , each of 100 lbs. , at a distance of 300 or 400 fathoms from the dredge ( when the depth exceeded 1200 fathoms ) , so as to dredge from the weights instead of from the ship ; the angle thus made caused the blade of the dredge to lie in its proper position .
This method , in fact , reduced the working depth , by the distanice of these weights from the vessel , to the easy and manageable limit of 300 or 400 fathoms .
Another contrivance was to fasten the bag to the dredge in such a way that when it was hauled in , it could be unlaced , emptied , and afterwards washed quite clean .
By this mode we were assured that the specimens really came from the place where each dredging was made .
We tried on this and other occasions a contrivance devised by Mr. Easton , the erninent engineer , consisting of gutta-percha valves closing inwards in a wedge-like form , which were fitted to the mouth of the dredge .
The object was to retain the conxtents of the dredge while it was being hauled in ; as we had found by frequent and disappointing experience that a large portion of the contents generally escape through the mouth during this part of the dredging operation .
This contrivance , though theoretically admirable , was found not to answer in practice , because the mouth of the dredge was so closed by the valves that it had no contents to be retained .
The principle , however , seems so good , that we slhould hope it may be more successfully applied .
36 .
The very deep dredgiugs in this trip yielded an abundance of novel and most interesting results in every division of Invertebrata .
Amonlg the MOLLUSCA were valves of an imperforate Brachiopod , with a septum in the lower valve , which we propose to name Atretia gnomon .
Some shells were of a considerable size ; and the fry of Isocardia cor ( Kelliella abyssicola , Sars ) were not uncommon .
Among the CRUSTACEA there were new species of Cumacea ; a beautiful Amphipod of a bright red colour , with feathery processes of a golden colour at the tail ; with a considerable variety of Isopoda , Phyllopoda , and Ostracoda , among them several forms apparently new .
There was also a magnificent Annelid , of a purplish hue , with purplish-brown spots on the line of segmentation .
Two or three young specimens were here obtained , at a depth of 1215 fathoms ( Station 28 ) , of a most interesting Clypeastroid , of which a mature example was afterwards dredged in the Third Cruise ( ? ?
77 ) .
These were at once recognized as belongino to an entirely new type ; but since our return we find that a form , generically if not specifically the same , had been obtained by Count Pourtales during his last dredgings in the Gulf of Mexico , and had been described by Prof. Alex .
Agassiz under the name ' Pourtalesia miranda .
This type is of extraordinary interest from its being the living representative of a very singular little group of theAnanchytidce ( including the genus Iazfulaster , D'Orb .
, to which it seems most closely allied ) , which are specially characteristic of the newer Chalk .
In the 1443 fathoms ' dredging ( Station 20 ) a Holothurian was obtained 5 inches long and 21 inches in circumference .
Several very fine Corals were obtained during the Rockall trip ; among them magnificent examiples of Lophohelia prolifera and Caryophyllia Smithii .
The Foraminsifera , as before , were remarkable for their size , the same types being generally predominant .
But specimens were here obtainied for the first time of a peculiarly interesting Orbitolite , a type not hitherto discovered further north than the Mediterranean , and there attaining a comparatively small size .
Perfect specimens of this Orbitolite must have a diameter of a sixpence ; but owing to its extreme tenuity , and to the facility with which the rings separate from each other , no large specimens were obtained unbroken , though it was evident that their fracture had taken place in the process of collection .
No greater proof can be adduced of the extreme stillness of the bottom at great depths , than is afforded by the extraordinary delicacy of these disks , which are so fragile as to be with difficulty mounted for observation .
Their plan of growth corresponids with that of the " simple typ)e " of this genus , all the " chamberlets " being on the same plane ; but the form of the chamberlets corresponds with that of the chamberlets of the superficial layers of the " complex type " * .
It is a fact of peculiar significance that instead of commencing with a " central " and " 'circumambient " chamber , like ordinary Orbitolites , this type commences with a spire of several turns , precisely like that of a younig Cornuspira , thus showing the fundamental conformity of this cyclical type to the 8piral plan of growth.-The animals , especially Mollusca , were by no means lively when brought on board and examined ; perhaps this was owing to the great change of temperature ( sometimes as much as 20 ?
) between that of the sea-bed and that of the atmosphere .
37 .
A very elaborate Series of Temperature-soundings was made in the deepest parts of the sea traversed between the N.W. of Ireland and Rockall Bank , so as to enable us to determine the rate of diminution of temperature with increase of depth ( see Table , p. 465 ) .
Thus at Station 19 , at which the depth was 1360 fathoms , the temperatures were taken at 250 , 500 , 750 , 1000 , and 1360 fathoms , and showed a progressive though by no means uniform descent to the minimurm recorded , which was 37 ? ?
4 ; the most rapid change was between 500 and 750 fathoms .
A similar Series , taken at Station 20 , where the depth was 1443 fathoms and the bottom-temperature 37 ?
0 , and a third taken at Station 21 , where the depth was 1476 fathoms , and the bottom-temperature 36 ? ?
9 , showed a very close accordance with each other and with the preceding .
In another Series taken at Station 22 in 1263 fathoms , a careful comparison was made between the temperatures recorded by two " protected " thermometers and six ordinary thermometers ; and the average error of these , which was very inearly 6 ' at the greatest depth , corresponded very closely with that indicated by the previous experiments at pressures answering to the several depths at which the observations were made.-The curious observation was made at Station 23 , very near the Rockall Bank , that whilst the minimuerm indicated was 43 ?
.4 at a depth of 630 fathoms , the mcaxinmum index of both thermometers had risen to 74 ?
.8 , or more than 17 ?
above the surface-temperature .
As in no other instance had any temperature been indicated higher than that of the surface , it seemed clear that a warm submarinie spring must discharge itself in this locality .
Circumstances prevented us , however , from ascertaining any further particulars in regard to it .
38 .
While we lay-to within a quarter of a mile from Rockall on the evening of Saturday the 3rd of July , fishing-parties were formed , and continued their sport until midnight .
The rock was inhabited by a multitude of sea-fowl ; and a large gannet perched on the highest pinnacle , looking like a sentinel or the president of the feathered republic .
39 .
At a distance of from 130 to 140 miles from the nearest part of the Irish coast we observed quiantities of floating Seaweed ( mostly Fuucs sei-ratus ) , and the feathers of sea-fowl covered with Lepas fascicularis and occasionially L. sulcata ; and on the seaweed were also two kinds of sessileTransactions for 1855 , p. 193 et seq. ; and his " Introduction to the Study of the Fore , minifrra , " p. 106 et seq. eyed Crustaceans .
The wind having been previously easterly , it is difficult to say what share the wind or tide had in the drift ; but it could scarcely have been caused by any circulation from the equator .
The Fauna nowhere showed the least trace of that wonlderful and apparently restricted current known as the Gulf-stream .
The beautiful Pteropod Clio pyramidata flitted about in considerable numbers ; a delicate Cuttlefish ( Leachia ellipsoptera ) , which is supposed to prey on Salpe , was caught in the scoopsieve , as well as several specimens of a small and very slender Syngnathus or pipefish .
On our homeward passage we experienced severe weather , in which oulr vessel sustained some injury from the heavy cross seas which struck her .
After putting into Killibegs we dredged in Lough Swilly , Lough Foil , and the North Channel on the way to Belfast , where we arrived on the 13th of July .
SECOND CRUISE .
( Chart , Plate 5 .
) 40 .
As already stated , it was the original intention to devote the Second Cruise to the exploration of an area to the west of the outer JIebrides , between Rockall and the south-westerni limit of last year 's work in the 'Lightning .
' During the First Cruise , however , dredging had been carried down successfully to a depth of nearly 1500 fathoms ; and the result so far realized our anticipations , and confirmed the experience of last year .
The conditions ( to that great depth at all events ) were consistent with the life of all the types of Marine Invertebrata ; though undoubtedly in very deep water the number of species procured of the higher groups was greatly reduced , and in many cases the individuals appeared to be dwarfed .
From these observations ( which thoroughly corroborated those of Dr. Wallich and others , about which there had been some difference of opinion on account of the imperfection of the appliances at the commnand of the observers ) , we concluded that probably in no part of the ocean were the conditionis so altered by Depth as to preclude the existence of Aniimal Life , -that Life bad no Bathymetrical limit .
Still we could not consider the question thoroughly settled ; and when , upon consultation with Captain Calver , we found him perfectly ready to attempt any depth , and from his previous experience sanguine of success , we determined to apply to the Hlydrographer to sanction an attempt to dredge in the deepest sounidings within our reach , viz. 2'500 fathoms indicated on the chart 250 miles west of Ushant .
The deepest reliable soundings do not go much beyond 3000 fathoms ; and we felt that if we could establish the existence of Life , and if we could determine the conditions with accuracy down to 2500 fathoms , the general question would be virtually solved for all depths of the ocean , and any further investigation of its deeper abysses would be mere matter of curiosity and of detail .
The Hydrographer cordially acquiesced in this change of plan ; and on the 17th of July the ' Porcupine ' left Belfast under the scientific direction of Professor Wyville Thomson ; Mr. Hunter , F.C.S. , Chemical Assistant in Queens College , Belfast , taking charge of the exa-mination and analysis of the sea-water .
41 .
The weather was very settled .
On the Sunday , as we steamed down the Irish Channel , there was nearly a dead calm , a slight mist hangilg over the water , and giving some very beautiful effects of coast scenery .
On the evening of Sunday the 18th we anchored for the night off Ballycottin , a pretty little port about fifteen miles from Queenstown , and dropped round to Queenstown on Monday morning , where we anchored off Haulbowline Island at 7 A.M. At Queernstown Mr. P. Herbert Carpenter joined Mr. Hunter in the laboratory , to practise under his direction the gas-analysis , which it had been arranged that he should undertake during the Third Cruise .
Monday the 18th was employed in coaling and procuring in Cork some things which were required for the chemical department ; and at 7 P.M. we cast off from the wharf at Haulbowline and proceeded on our voyage .
42 .
During Monday night we steamed in a south-westerly direction across the mouth of the Channel .
On Tuesday we dredged in 74 and 75 fathoms on the plateau which extends between Cape Clear and Ushant , on a bottom of mud and gravel with dead shells and a few living examples of the generally diffused species of moderate depths .
The weather was remarkably fine , the barometer 30 25 in .
, and the temperature of the air 72 ? ?
5 .
43 .
On Wednesday , July 21st , we continued our south-westerly course , the chart indicating during the earlier part of the day that we were still in the shallow water of the plateau of the Channel .
At 4.30 A.M. we dredged gravel and dead shells in 95 fathoms , but towards mid-day the lead gave a much greater depth ; and in the afternoon , rapidly passing over the edge of the plateau , we dredged in 725 fathoms with a bottom of muddy sand ( Station 36 ) .
This is about the bathymetrical horizon at which we find the Vitreous Sponges in the northern area ; and although the bottom is here 'very different , myiuch more sandy with but a slight admixture of Globigerina ooze , we dredged a tolerably perfect , though dead , specimen of Aphrocallistes Bocaqei , a vitreous sponge lately described by Dr. E. Perceval Wright from a specimen procured by Professor Barboza du Bocage from the Cape-Verde Islanrds , and one or two small specimenis of fIloltenia Carpenteri .
The muddy sand contained a considerable proportion of gravel and dead shells .
44 .
On Thursday , July 22nd , the weather was still remarkably fine .
The sea was moderate , with a slight swell from the north-west .
We sounded in lat. 470 38 ' N. , long .
120 08 ' W. , in a depth of 2435 fathoms ( Station 37 ) .
The Sounding-line used on this occasion was medium No. 2 , of the best Italian hemp , the No. of threads 18 , the weight per 100 fathoms 12 lbs. 8 oz. , the circumference 08 inch , and the breaking-strain , dry , 1402 lbs. , soaked a day , 1211 lbs. ; and the 'H ydra ' sounding-inistrument was weighted with 336 lbs. The weight attached to the sounding-apparatus is of course allowed to descend quite freely without any check , buLt its velocity is gradually and uniformly reduced during its descent by the increasing friction of the lengthening line .
The uniiformity of this retardation gives an infallible test of the suiccess of the sounding , and a certain indication of the moment when the weight reaches the bottom .
The latter was , however , valuable only for corroboration , as even at these enormous depths the shock of the arrest of the weight on the bottom , nearly three miles down , was distinctly perceptible to the skilled hand of our Commander .
As the scientific value of our results depends upon the certainty of the determination of the depths , we subjoiln a Table of the absolute rate of the descent of the weight in this sounding , -probably the deepest hitherto made which is thoroughly reliable , having been taken with the most perfect appliances , and with consummate skill .
Fathoims , Time .
Interval .
Fathoms .
Time .
Interval .
him sms hlm s in s02 44 20 1300 58 5I 23 I00 45 5 45 1400 2 59 37 1 32 200 45 45 40 1500 3I91 32 300 46 30 45 i 6oo z 42 I33 400 47 25 55 1700 .
4 19 1 37 500 48 15 50 I800 661 47 6oo 49 1I5 I0 I900 753I 47 70Q 50 24 I9 2000 9 40 I 47 800 51 23 59 2I00 II 29 I 49 900 52 45 I 22 2200 13 24 I 55 1000 54 0I 15 2300 I5 23 I 59 1100 55 21 I 2I 2400 I7 15 I 52 1200 56 42 I 21 2435 I7 55 40 The whole time occupied in descent was 33 minutes 35 seconds ; and in heaving up 2 hours 2 minutes .
The cylinder of the sounding-apparatus came up filled with fine grey Atlantic ooze , containing a considerable proportion of fresh shells of Glo6igerina .
The two Miller-Casella thermometers , Nos. 100 and 103 , attached as usual to the line above the sounding-instrument , registered a minimum temperature of 360.5 F. ( 20.5 C. ) .
45 .
A Dredge was sent down at 5.45 P.M. ; and as this was the deepest haul , the one which tested our resources most fully , and which seemed to us to prove that dredging could , with sufficient care and skill , be successfully carried out in any known depth in the ocean , we give here the details of the operation and the appliances used.-The dredge was of wrought iron , made on exactly the same plan as the " 1 Naturalists ' " dredge introduced by Ball and Forbes .
The two scrapers were pitched at a very low angle .
The arms were moveable , and about half of each arm next the eye to which the rope was attached was of strong chain : we are by no means sure , however , that this was an advantage .
On one side the chain was attached to the arm of the dredge by a stop of five turns of spun yarn , so that in case of the dredge becoming entangled , or wedged by rocks or stones , a strain less than sufficient to break the dredge-rope would break the stop , alter the position of the dredge , and probably enable it to free itself .
The weight of the frame of the dredge was 225 lbs. ; the mouth was about 4 feet 6 inches long by 6 inches wide at the throat or narrowest part , at the inlner edge of the scrapers .
The dredge-bag was double ; the outer bag of strong twine netting , the meshes of the net 4 inch in diameter ; the inner of " bread-bag , " a coarse open canvas .
By an ingenious device of Captain Calver , the inner bag was divided into a set of compartments by pieces of plank fitted vertically into it from the mouth nearly to the bottom .
This arrangement was intended to prevent the washing out of the contents of the dredge during its long upward journey .
46 .
The length of the dredge-rope was 3000 fathoms , nearly 31 statute miles ; of this 2000 fathoms were " hawser-laid " 2k inches , with a breaking strain of 24 tons .
The 1000 fathoms next the dredge were " hawser-laid " 2 inches .
There was an admirable arrangement for stowing the rope-an arrangement which made its maniipulation singularly easy , notwithstanding its great bulk and weight ( about 5500 lbs. ) .
A long r'ow of large iron pins , about 2 feet in length , projected , rising obliquely from the top of the bulwark , along one side of the quarter-deck .
Each of these held a coil of from 200 to 300 fathoms , and the rope was coiled continuously along the whole row .
While the dredge was going down , the rope was rapidly taken by the men from these pinls ( " Aunt Sallies " we called them , from their each ending over the deck in a smooth white wooden ball ) in succession , beginning with the one nearest the dredging-derrick ; and in hauling up , a relay of men carried the rope along from the surgingdrum of the donkey-engine , and hung it in coils on the pins in inverse order .
A heavy spar formed a powerful derrick projecting over the port bow .
A large block was suspended at the end of the derrick by a rope , which was not directly attached to the end of the derrick , but passed tbrough an eve , and was fixed to a " bit " on the deck .
On a bight of this rope , between the " bit " and the block , was lashed the " accumulator " described above ( ? ?
1 ) .
The result of this arrangement was , that when any undue strain came upon the dredge-rope , the strain acted first upon the " accumulator ; " and a graduated scale on the derrick , against which the " accumulator " played , gave , in cwts .
, an approximation , at all events , to the strain upon the rope .
In letting go , the rope passed to the block of the derrick directly from the " Aunt Sallies ; " in hauling up it passed from the block to the surging-drum of the admirable double-cylinder donkey-engine already mentioned , from which it was taken by the men and coiled on the " Aunt Sallies .
" Three sinkers were attached to the dredge-rope , one of 1 cwt .
, and the others of 56 lbs. each , at 500 fathoms from the dredge .
47 .
The 3000 fathoms of rope were out at 5.55 P.M. , the vessel drifting slowly before a moderate breeze ( force=4 ) from the N.W. The accompanying woodcut gives an idea of the various relative positions of the dredge and the vessel , according to the plan of dredging f6llowed by Capt. Calver , which answered admirably .
A represents the position of the vessel when the dredge is let go , and the dotted line AB the line of descent of the dredge , rendered oblique by the tension of the rope .
While the dredge is going down , the vessel drifts gradually to leeward ; and when the whole ( say ) 3000 fathoms of rope are out , C , W , and D might represent the relative positions of the vessel , the weight attached 500 fathoms from the dredge , and the dredge itself .
Fig. 4 .
A Win7d C t , ... ____ i~~I .
s/ / \ ' ' 6 ' W '.1t7 i/ t/ / 1 _1 The vessel now steams slowly to windward , occupying successively the positions E , F , G , and H. The weight , to which the water offers but little resistance , sinks from W to W ' , and the dredge and bag move slowly from D to B. The vessel is now allowed to drift back before the wind from H towards C. The tension of the motion of the vessel , instead of acting immediately upon the dredge , now drags forward the weight W ' , so that the dredging is carried on from the weight , and not directly from the vessel .
The dredge is thus quietly pulled along , with its lip scraping the bottom in the attitude which it assumes from the position of the centre of weight of its iron frame and arms .
If , on the other hand , the weights were hung close to the dredge , and the dredge were dragged directly from the vessel , owing to the enormous weight and spring of the rope , the arms would be constantly lifted up , and the lip of the dredge prevented from scraping.-For very deep dredging , this operation of steaming up to windward till the dredge-rope was nearly perpendicular , after drifting for half an hour or so to leeward , was usually repeated three or four times .
48 .
At 8.50 P.M. we began to haul in , and the " Aunt Sallies " to fill againi .
The engine delivered the rope steadily at a uniform rate of rather more than a foot per second.-It is worthy of record that , except on one or two occasions , when an enormous load , at one time nearly a ton , came up in the dredge-bag , the donikey-engine maintained the same rate of heaving during the whole summer 's work .
A few minutes before 1 A.M. the weights appeared ; and at one in the morning , 7j hours after it was cast over , the dredge was safely hauled on deck , having in the interval accomplished a journey of upwards of eight statute miles .
The dredge-bag contained i , cwt .
of the very characteristic pale grey Atlantic ooze .
The total weight brought up by the engine was 2000 fathoms 2k'-inch rope ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
4000 lbs. 1000 fathoms 2-inch rope.1500 lbs. 5500 lbs. Weight of rope reduced to one quarter in the water1375 lbs. Dredge and bag .
275 lbs. Ooze brought up ... e ... X. 168 lbs. Weight attached ... 224 lbs. 2042 49 .
The Dredge , with its contents , was reverently laid aside under a tarpauling , and the watchers threw themselves down to rest till daylight .
The contents of the dredge had the ordinary character of Atlantic chalkmud .
Since our returni it has been analyzed by Mr. Hunter , who finds it to contain ( besides anl appreciable quanatity of Organic matter , the exact proportion of which has not yet been accurately ascertained)Silica ... .2334 Ferric oxide ... .
5v91 Alumina ... ... ... 5.35 Carbonate of calcium .
6134 Carbonate of magnesium. .
400 Loss .
0.06 100-00 the alkalies having been removed by washing.-The ooze has not yet been subjected to careful Microscopic examination .
The dredge appeared to have dipped pretty deep into the soft mud ; its conitents therefore contained but a small proportion of fresh shells of Globigerina and Orbulina .
There was an appreciable quantity of diffused amorphous organic matter , which we were inielined to regard as connected , whether as processes , or " mycelium , " or germs , with the various shelled and shelless Protozoa .
50 .
On careful sifting , the ooze was found to contain fresh examples of each of the Invertebrate Subkingdoms .
When examined at daylight on the morning of the 23rd , none of these were actually living , but their soft parts were perfectly fresh , and there was ample evidence of their having been living when they entered the dredge .
The most remarkable species were : MOLLUSCA.-Dentaliuln , sp. in .
, of large size .
Pecten fenestratus , a Mediterranean species .
Dacrydiurm vitreurn , Arctic , Norwegian , and Mediterranean .
Scrobicularia nitida , Norwegian , British , and Mediterranean .
Necvra obesa , Arctic and Norwegiani .
CRUSTAcEA.-Anonyx IIalbollii , Kr6yer ( =A .
denticulatus , Bate ) , with the seconidary appendage of the upper antennm , longer and more slender than in shallow-water specimens .
Ampelisca cequicornis , Bruzelius .
MAunna , sp. in .
Onie or two ANNELIDES and GEPHYREA , wh1ichI have not yet been determined .
EcIuINODERMATA.-Op/ iocten I_h5yeri , Liitken ; several well-grown specimens .
Echinocucumi , s typica , Sars .
This seems to he a very widely distributed species ; we got it in almost all oUr deep dredgings , both in the Warm and in the Cold areas .
A remarkable stalked Crinoid , allied to Rhizocrinus , but presenting some very marked differenceos .
PoLYzoA.-Salicornaria , sp. n. CaUENTERATA.-Two fragments of a Uydroid Zoophyte .
PROTOZOA.-Numerous Foraminifera belonging to the groups already indicated ( ? ?
33 ) as specially characteristic of these abyssal waters ; together with a 6ranching flexible iRhizopod , haaving a chitinous cortex studde(l withi Globigerina , which eneloses a sarcodic mnedulla of olive-green hue .
This singular organism , of which fragmenits had been detected in other dredgings , here presented itself in great abundance .
Orie or two small SPONGES , which seem to be referable to a new group .
51 .
On Friday , July 23 , we tried another haul at the same depth ; but when the dredge came up at 1.30 P.M. it was found that the rope had fouled and lapped right rouind the dredge-bag , and that there was nothing YOL .
XIII .
2 I , in the dredge .
The dredge was sent down again at 3 p.m. , and was brought up at 11 P.M. , with upwards of 200 cwt .
of ooze.-We got from this haul a new species of Pleurotoma and one of Dentalium , Scroobicularia nitida , Dacrydium vitreum , Ophiocantha 8pinulo8a , armed Ophiocten KCriyeri , with a few Crustaceans and many Foraminifera .
52 .
In both of these last deep dredgiings the dredge brought up a large nuLmber of extremely beautiful Poiycystin.a , and some forms apparently intermediate between Poltycytina and Sponges , which will be described shortly .
These organiisms didl not seem to be brought from the bottom , but appeared to be sifted into the dtedge on its way uip .
They were as numerous adhering to the outside of the dredging-bag , as within it .
During the soundings taken near this locality quite a shower of several beautiful species of the Polycystina andAcantho2netrina fell upon the chart-room skylight from the whole length of the sounding-line while it was being hauled in .
53 .
Dredging in such deep water was very trying .
Each operation occupied seven or eight ho-Lrs ; and during the whole of that time it demanded and received the mniost anxious attenitioni on the part of the CoTnmander , who stood with his haned on the pulse of the Accumulator , ready at any moment , by a turn of the paddles , to ease any undue strain , The men , stimulated and encouraged by the cordial interest taken by their officers in our operations , worked willingly and well ; but the labour of taking upwards of three miles of rope , coming up with a heavy strain from the surging-drum of the engine , and coiling it upon the 'AuLnlt Sallies , " was very severe .
The rope itself loolked frayed and strained , as if it could not be truisted to stand this extraordinary ordeal much longer .
The question of the distribution of Life and the conditioni of the bottom had been solved ; and the animals brought up , though of surprising interest , were few in number .
On the morning of Saturday the 24th we therefore determnined to cease dredgin , g for the present , and to devote the day to an investigation wlicih we regarded as at least equal in importance , the determination of a series of Temperatures at intervals of 25O fathomis from the bottom to , the surface .
The following is a Table of the mean results of this series of observations ( Station 38 ) .
T'he instruments used were the two MillerCasella thermometers which were emnployed in all the temperature-soundings throughout the sumi-mer .
The depth was 2090 fathoms , Surface-temperature 640 F.= 17-08 C. 00 260 fathoms ... .
50 5 , 10'28 , less thai surface..135F .
7'5 C. 500 , , ... . .
478 9 .
8 , S8 ) , 2 50fath .
2'7 , 1'5 750 , , ... ... 413 7 , 5'17 , o 500 , 6 ' , ) 3'6 1000 o , .
*. .
38S3 , , 3 , 5 750 g , 3'0 , 1-7 1250 , .
37-7 , 3 17 , , 1000 0 , G , j 031 500 , ... .e 37'2 , 2'9 , , , 1250 , , 05 0'3 17S0 0,.* ... 36'7 261 , l , 1500 0-5 0'3 2090 36..3. .
3G , 2'4 , 7 1750 , , 0'4 , 0 ' 54 .
The general result of this series of Soundings is of the highest interest ; and although it may be premature to attempt any explanation of the details of the phenomena until all the temperature-observations which have been made in the North Atlantic have been reduced to the M\Niller-Casella standard and carefully correlated , still certain general conclusions seem self-evident.-The high surface-temperature , reduced by 13 ' deegrees at 2.50 fathoms , is undoubtedly due to superheating by the direct heat of the sun .
This is shown more clearly by the Table ( ?
.58 ) , where nearly 70 an seen to be lost between the surface and 30 fathoms , and 40 more between 30 fathoms and 100 fathoms.-From 100 to 500 fathoms the temperature is still high and tolerably uniform , and it falls rapidly between.500 and 1000 fathoms ; a reference to the second Table shows that the rapid fall is between 650 and 850 fathooms , during which initerval there is a loss of nearly 60 .
The second stage of elevated temperature , from 2(50 to 650 fathoms , seems to be caused by the north-easterly reflux of the great equatorial current .
From 1000 fathotims the loss of heat goes on uniformly at the rate of 00.5 for every 250 fathoms .
The most singular feature in this decrease of temperature for the last mile and three quarters is its absolute u-niformity , which appears to be inconsistent with the idea of a cturreint , unless it were one of excessive slowness .
It appears that the presence of this vast uniderlying body of comparatively cold water can only be accounted for on the supposition of a general interchange of warm and cold water , according to the doctrine laid down by Dr. Carpenter in the ' Lightning , ' Report , which will be more fully expounded hereafter ( ? ?
115 ) .
55 .
We were now steaming slowly back towards the coast of Ireland ; and on Monday , July 26 , we dredg , ed in depths varying from 557 to 584 fathoms ( Stations 39-41 ) in ooze , with a mixture of sand and dead shells .
In these dredgings we got one or two very interesting Alcyonarian zoophytes , and several Ophiuridans , including , Ophiothrix ' frayilis , Amphiura Ballii , and Op)hiacantha spinulosa .
Many of the animals were most brilliantly phosphorescent ; and we were afterwards even more struck by this phenlomenion in our Northelrn Cruise .
In some places nearly everything brought up seemed to emit light , and the mud itself was perfectly full of luminous specks .
The Alcyonarians , the Brittle-stars , and some Ann-ielids were the most brilliant .
The Pennatulce , the Viryularie , and the Goryonia ?
shone with a lambeint white light , so bright that it showed quite distinctly the hour on a watch .
The light from Pavoniaria quadrangularis was pale lilac , like the flame of cyanogen ; while that from Ophiacantha spinulosa was of a brilliant green , corruscating from the centre of the disk , now along , one arm , niow along , another , and sometimes vividly illuminating the whole outline of the starfish .
56 .
The question of the amount and the kind of Light in these abysses was constantly before us .
That there is light , there can be no douLbt .
The eyes in many species of all classes were well developed ; in some , very 2L remarkably so .
A Munida , probably a variety of Jiunida Banifi , somewhat paler in colour than usual , and somewhat slighter in its proportions , which we met with abundantly in our northern dredgings , had remarkably large eyes , very brilliant , transparent , and bronzy , giving the inpression of extreme sensitiveness .
It is scarcely possible that any appreciable quantity of the Suni 's light can penetrate beyond two hundred fathoms at most .
The data with regard to the transmission of light through seawater are very scanty ; but the rapidity with which light diminishes during the first few fathoms seems to point to its speedy extinction .
It seemed to us probable that the abyssal regions might depend for their light solely upon the Phosphorescence of their inhabitants .
The only use which the lower animals make of light is to enable them to procure their food ; and it is evident that in the night , or under any circumstances in which there is no source of general illuminiation , it would answer the same purpose of guiding , them to their prey , if that prey itself were lumirnous .
Among the Starfishes the young specimens , 10 to 15 millims. from point to point of the rays , appeared to be much more luminous than mature examples of the same species .
This is probably part of the great general plan which provides an enormous excess of the young of maniy species apparently as a supply of food ; their wholesale destruction being necessary for the due restrictionl of the multiplication of the species , while the breeding individuals , on the other hand , are provided with special appliances for escape or defence .
It is well known that fishes feed principally at night ; and the path of a shoal of herrings may often be traced for miles by the broad ban-cl of phosphorescence caused by the glowing and scintillating , of the rmyriads of phosphorescent animals , especially larvme , with which the sea is crowded , and which supply their food .
We can scarcely doubt that the phosphorescence of the inhabitants of the dark abysses of the sea performs , in regard to the great object of the supply of food , the funictions performed in the upper world by the light of day .
57 .
On the 27th we dredged in 862 fathoms ( Station 42 ) , the weather being still very fine , and the sea quite smooth .
The bottorn was ooze with sand and dead shells .
Among the Mollusca procured were a new species of Pleuronectia , Leda abyssicola ( Arctic ) , Ledcz Messinensis ( a Sicilian Tertiary fossil ) , Dentalium gigas ( sp. in .
) , Siphonodentaliu2n ( sp. n. ) , Cer-ithiutm mvetulca , Arnaura ( sp. n. ) , Colhrnbella Haliceeti , Cylichna pyraamidata ( Norwegiani and Mediterraniean ) , and maany dead shells of Cavolina trispinosa .
These latter were very common in all the northern dredgings , though we niever saw a living specimen on the surface..58 .
lDuring the afternoon we took a series of intermediate temperatures , at intervals of 50 fathoms , from the bottom at 862 fathoms to the surface .
The following Table gives the general resuilts of this series of observations:0 0 Suirface ( mealn temp. of 1 62 8 F.= 1722 C. 100 , Miller-Casella 103 ) f01 10 fathoms ... .
62 1 , , 16 72,1essthansurface O7F.=O=5C .
20,. .
59-4 , , 15-22 , , , O fath .
2-7 , , 15 30 , , ... ... 56'0 , , 13 33 , , , 20 , , 34 1 , P9 40,. .
54-4 , , 12A4 , , , 30 , , 1.6 , , 09 50,.532 , , 118 , , , 40 , , 1 2 , , 064 100 , ... ... . .
511 1 , , 6 , 50 , , 2d1 , , l2 150. .
50.9 , , 105 , , , 100 , , 0 2 , , 0l1 200 ... ... . .
, , ) 05 10 3 , , 15 0 , , 0 4 , , 02 250 , ... ... . .
502 , 1011 , , , 200 , , 0 , 02 3o0,. .
49-6 , , 9 8 , , , 2.50 , , 0 , 0-3 350 , ,. .
491 , , 9 5 , , , 300 , , 05 , , 03 400 , , * Total P rOqxuigreedn troe Depth in peciftc Pereentag Perceptage Pereentage celltage of neutralizeOravt .
of C trbonic reetgGas ancm tr Fathoins .
ravity .
Acid of Oxygen .
of Nitrogen .
Gai .
n 250 c. cm otf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 2_ c. c. of .
granime .
862 1027* ' 48-23 17'22 34-50 3-5 '001 800 102717 33'75 17'79 48'46 2'8 '001 750 102 &gt; 7 5 31'92 18-76 49'32 2-8 '0012 700 1027'5 3102 19'31 49-66 2-2 '0013 650 10217 &gt; 5 30 00 19'80 50'20 2-4 600 102/ 5 28-34 20'14 5152 2-4 '0005 550 1027S5 29'06 20'70 50-24 2-6 '0009 500 1027'5 27'26 ... ... . .
2-2 '0014 450 1027 &gt; 5 241 3 22-18 53 '09 2-8 00005 400 1027'5 29173 22 71 47'51 2'5 '0014 350 1027'3 ... ... ... ... ... .
0015 300 1027'3 ... ... ... ... ... .
'0018 250 1027'3..0 ... ... ... ... .
'0019 200 1027'3 ... ... ... ... ... .
'0017 50 1027-2 30-73 25'23 43'84 2'2 '0014 Surface 1027 ' .
59 .
On the 28thb we dredged in 1207 fathoms ( Station 43 ) , with a bottom of ooze .
A large Fu8us of a new species ( F. attenuatus , Jeifreys ) was brought up alive , with two or three Gephyrea , and an exacmple each of Ophiocten Kfrdyeri and Echinoceucumis typica .
We again dredged oln the 29th and 30th , gradually drawing in towards the coast of Ireland in 865 , 458 , 180 , and 1 13 fathoms successively ( Stations 44 , 45 ) .
In 458 fathorns ( Station 45 ) we procured a broken example of Brisinga endecacnemos , previously taken by Mr. Jeffreys off Valentia , and a number of inlterestiigo Mollusea ; and in 458 and 180 fathoms ( Stationls 45 and 45a ) an extraordinary abundance of animal life , including many very interesting forms Dentalium abyssoru ; n , Aporrhais Serresianus , Solarium fallaciosum , Fus us fenestratus , a beauitiful Ophiurid , the type of a new genus allied to Ophiuria , remarkably large specimens of the commoner forms , OphiothriK frayilis ( for example ) , nearly a foot and a half from tip to tip of the army:s , and brilliantly coloured , abundance of Caryophyllia Smithii , and of all the ordinary deep-water forms of the regioni .
About midday on Saturday , the 31st of July , we steamed into Queenstown .
I-Iaving coaled at I-aulbowline on Monday the 2nd of Auigust , we were moored in the Abercorn basin , Belfast , after a pleasant return passage nip the channel , on the evening of Wednesday the 4th .
TIIiRD CRUISE .
( Chart , Plate 6 .
) 60 .
In accordance with the originial Programme ( ? ?
29 ) , the Third Crln ; ise was devoted to the re-examxiination , on a more minute and extended scale , of ' the region of the " Warm and Cold Areas " traversed last year in the 'Light .
ning , ' with the special view of determining , if possible , ( 1 ) the Physical con. .
ditions on which depends thie remarkable contrast then discovered between their bottom-temperatures , the Sea-bed being of nearly the same depth throughout , and their 8s:face-temperatures being alike ; and ( 2 ) the influence of this difference upon the distribution of Anirnal life , and on the nature of the Sea-bed itself .
61 .
As it was requisite that the boilers of the ' Porcupine ' should be thoroughly cleansed after her return from the Second Cruise , we did not leave Belfast ( to which port she had gone round from Cork ) until Wednesday , August 1 1th ; wheln we made direct for Stornoway as our final point of departure , arriving there on Friday the 13th .
I-Having taken in as much coal as could be safely stowed on deck , as well as below , we left Stornoway on the afternoon of Sun-day the 15th , and proceeded in the directionl of the spot on which we had made our most successful dredging of last year ( 'Lightning ' Report , ? ?
16 ) , and which we had come to call the Hioltenia-ground* .
OuLr dredging on this ground ( Stationi 47 ) again proved remalrkably successfiil , bringing up numerous specimenis of Iloltenia , of Ilyalonema ( one of them constituting , a new species ) , of AIdrasta injfundibultun ( a type allied to IHyalonema ) , and of Tisiphonia ( ( a remarkable genus of Siliceous Sponges , obtained , like Holtetia , for the first time last year , of which a description , by Prof. Wyville Thomson , will soon be presented to the iloyal Society ) , besides many other specimenls of great interest , some of which appear to be new types .
The experience of the 650 fathoms ' dredge last year having led us to put aside and preserve the 8sftinys , inistead of attempting to pick them over at the time , we have since found them to yield an extraordinarily rich harvest of PForaminifera , including not merely the types mentioned in the 'Lightning ' Report ( ? ?
16 ) , but a great number of others , especially of the Arenaceous Order , in which the shelly covering is replaced by a " test " composed of sanid-grains more or less firmly cemented together .
Although the H6oltenia-ground lies within the Warm area , the Sea-bed of which is ordinarily covered by Globigerinamud ( ' Lightning ' Report , p. 190 ) , yet this mud here containis a considerable admixture of sand , obviously derived from the Cold area with which it is here in immediate proxiimity .
For this sand , when separated from the Globigerina-mud , corresponlds precisely in its character with that of the Cold area , being especially distiniguished by the admixtuLre of particles of Augite and other minerals having an uindoubtedly Volcanic source .
This admixture is very perceptible to thie experieniced eye in the " tests " of Alstrorsiza and other Arenaceous Foraminifera abundant in this locality , as well as in those of Lituola and other Arenaceous types inhabitinh the Cold area , where the bottom is formed by sand and small stones alonie .
62 .
It is not a little curious that one of the new types* discovered last year ia the 650 fathoms ' dredging ( ' Lightninrg ' Report , ? ?
19 ) , which was made in a part of the Warm area far removed from the borders of the Cold , was now fouind to occur here also , but with a remarkable difference in the structure of its " test .
" Its shape is fusiform , generally somewhat curved , not unlike a ?
; and it has only one undivided cavity , with a tubiform aperture at each end .
Now in the true Cretaceous area , where sand-grainis are scarce , but sponge-spicules abound , this Rhizopod colnstructs its " test " almost entirely of spolnge-spicules , laid with most extraordinary regularity , a sand-grain being initerposed here and there to fill up a vacuity left by the oblique crossing of the spicules .
But in the Ioltenia-groui d , where sand is abundant , " tests " of precisely the same gerneral form and proportions are built up almost entirely of sand-grains cemented together ; sponge-spicules , however , being invariably used to form the tubiform mouths , and the mouth thus formed being sometimes prolonged like aT proboscis.-It is difficult to conceive how creatures which seem lnothinii more than particles of animated jelly , without " organs " of any kincl , can exert so remarlkable a power of selectiOn and conistruction as is shown in the " tests " of some of these Arenaceous For)-amninifera .
There are none which are more symmetrically constructed than the triradiate Rhabdlamnina ; each of its three very slender arms , which diverge at equal angles , being a cylindrical tube , built u:p of sand-grains of very uniiformn size , united by a firm cement which conitains a considerable proportioni of Phosphate of lon .
This tube is beautifLully smoothed off internally ; and it is nio rougher externally , in proportion to its size , than any wall would be that is built of rough-hewn stones arranged by the hands of a most dexterous mason .
The only structure with which we are acquainteed that is at all comparable to it in workmnanship is the sandy tube of the Pectinarict , onie of the Tubicolar Annelids , a creature comparatively high in the scale of organization .
63 .
It was here that we employed for the first time an additionto our Dredging apparatus devised by Capt. Calver , wlio , having noticed that animals frequenltly camne up attached to the part of the dredge-rope that had laini on the ground , or to the niet of the dredge itself , justly reasoned that if the Sea-bottom were swept with heimpen brushes , they would probably bring up many creatures that might escape the scmaping of the dredge .
These brushes were made of bunidles of rope-yarni teased out into their separate threads , and tiecl together at the top , so as closely to resemble the ordinary " ' swabs " used on board ship .
An iron rod was attached to the bottom of the dredge , and carried out about two feet on either side of it ; and it was to these projecting ; portions ( r , esemblin , the studding-sail-booms extended from a yard-arm ) that the " hempen tangles " were attached by Capt. Calver , who rightly judged that if they were attached to the bottomri of the dredge itself , they would only bring up what the dredge had passed over and crushed .
Though the use of these " I tai gles " added much to our " hauls " on the IIoltenia-ground , especially ona subsequent occasior ( ? ?
86 ) , yet it was on the hard bottom of the Cold area that their valuie became especially apparent , the " tangles " often coMDing up laden with the richest spoils of the Ocean-bed , when the dredge wmas nearly empty ( ? ?
74 ) .
64 .
Our course was now directed slowly N.N.V. , towards the southern edge of the Faroe Ban}k , Soundings being frequently taken , that we might determinie the boundary in this region between the Warm and the Cold areas .
The ininimium temperature on the Holtenia-ground , as shown by the " protected " Thermometers , was a little unider 440 , the depth being 540 fathoms ; and this accorded very closely with the temperature of 47 ?
.3 observed in the same spot last year , when the requisite correction was applied for pressure .
A Souniding taken on the afternoon of the next day , at Station 49 ( Lat. 590 43 ' , Long. 70 40 ' ) , showed a someWhat less depth , viz. 475 fathoms , and a slightly higher minimum temperature , 454 .
In the evening of the same day aniother Sounlding was takeni ( Station 50 ) , and it was founIld that the depth had diminiished to 3,55 fathomis , whilst the minimum temnperature had risenl to 460.2 .
A Sounding takeni early the next morning , hlowever , at Station 51 ( Lat. 600 61 , Loug .
80 14 ) , showed a minimnumn of 400 , with a depth of 440 fathoms ; and this depressioni of temperature led us to surmnise that we were here passing from the Warm into the Cold area .
The correctness of this surmise was soon proved ; for a Soundingtakeen at about 20 miles to the north at Station 52 ( Lat. 600 25 ' , Long. 80 1 0 ) , gave a minimum temperature of 300.6 , though the depth had diminished to 384 fathomsI 65 .
In order to ascertain more particularly the conditions of this very remark-able depression , we requested Capt. Calver to ascertain the temperature at depths progressively increasing by 50 fathoms ; and it was thus showni ( 1 ) that the minimumn temperature is that of the bottom , as had been argued in the 'Lightning ' ilepoit ( p. 189 ) to be probably the case ( 2 ) that this minimum is nearly reached at a depth of 300 fathons ; ( 3 ) that the decrease of temperature is by no means uniform , but that whilst it takes place in the first 200 fathoms at nearly the same rate as in the most northerly stations previously tested in the First Cruise , there is a rapid and extraordiniary diminution , amounting to more than 15 ?
, between 200 and 300 ftathoms .
( See Table I. p. 456 .
) This diminution can scarcely be accounted for on any other hypothesis than that of a stream of frigid water passing uiider the warmer and more superficial stratum.-It is worthy of note that in this spot we found evidence , in the rounded form of the stones and gravel brought tip by the dredge , of a more decided movement of water than is presented in the Cold area generally , the bottom of which genlerally consists of fine sand , sometimes with an admixture of clay , inieluding stones but little rolled .
And as our subsequent Soundings have led lus to believe that we were here on the western border of the Cold area , and that its strean of frigid water is reduced at the same time in breadth and depth , before discharging itself into the deep Oceanic basin ( ? ?
104 ) , a more rapid movement is precisely what might be expected .
66 .
Altering our course niow to the E. S.E. , we took another Sounding on the evening of the same lay ( Station 53 ) , after a run of about 25 miles , and found the depth increased to 490 fathoms , and the minimnumn ( which we shall niow call the bottomn ) temperature reduced to 300 .
This cour'so having been contintied during the nig , ht , we found ourselv'es ( Stationl 54 ) , ealy on the morning of August 19th , in Lat. 590 56 ' and Long. 6 ' 27 ' , where the depth was 363 fathons , and the bottom-temperature 310.4 .
It was thus obvious that we were still iu the C"old area , although we h1ad come back almost exactly to the latitude of Station 50 , and were more than twelve miles to the south of the lowest parallel to whbich we b ad traced it last year .
( We subsequelntly traced it , at Station 86 , about nine miles still further south .
) The coincidenice of Depths as well as of Latitudes between Stations 50 and 54 , with deeper water both north and south of them , shows that the bed of the chanlnlel here rises into a ridge , which has probably something to do with the direction of the course of the flow along its bottom.-We then againi turned northiwards , and in the afterioon of the same day found that our depth ( Station 55 ) had ilereased to 605 fathoms , whilst the bottom-temperature was somewhat below 300 .
Our Soundings were frequenttly repeated in this part of the Area , with great uniformity in their results , both as to Depth and Telomperatulre ; and oun Dredging operationls were carried on with little initeomission .
As the wind and swell were very moderate ( aithough we were here almost constantly in a cold damp mist , which sonetimes gave place to a mizzling rain ) , it was found convenient to put the dredge over soonl after midnight , and to let it drag until about 4 A.M. , hauling it in at the beginning of the morning watch .
In this manner a rich harvest was frequently obtained .
The geineral resuLlts of our Zoological exploration of the Cold Area may be best stated hereafter ( ? ? ? ?
74-8O ) in a collective form .
67 .
As we wished to examine the shallow bank of 170 fathomyis in the middle of the Cold area , upon which we dredged last year ( ' Lightlning ' Report , ? ?
13 ) , our course was now directed to the spot on which it had been laid down in the Chart of the 'Lightning ' Expedition ; but we didI not succeed in falling-in with it .
The explanation of our failuire seems to lie ( l ) in the extremely limited area of this bank , as showln by the great depth of water found in the ' Lightltning ' sounidings on either side of it ; ( 2 ) in the circumstance that bothi last year and this year , while we were working ov'er this ground , the sky was so overcast for several cdays together , that it wast hnpossible to fix the place either of the ' Lightning ' or of the I Porcupine ' by observation ; and ( 3 ) that a " dead reckoninrg " cannot be kept with any considerable exactness when the ship is drifting with a dredge attached to it during a great part of the twenty-four hours.-Hence either the place of the bank may not have been precisely laid down in the ' Lightning ' Chart ; or a correspoinding , error of a few miiles may have been made in estimating the place of the 'Porcupine .
' How exactly accordant were the points determined by observation in the two Expeditions is shown by the precision with which Captain Calver twice placed us on the IToltenia-ground ( ? ? ? ?
61 , 86 ) , though approaching it in each case in a direction different from that in which we came uponl it last year .
68 .
Pursuing our explorationi about thirty miles further eastwards in the same parallel , we sounded on the afternoon of the 20thi in 580 fiathoms ( Stationl 59 , Lat. 60 ? ?
21 ' , Long. 5041V ) , and fouind the bottom-temperature 29 ? ?
7 , which was nearly the lowest anywhere met with .
From this poilnt , which was on the hiioe of Souindings between the Orkniey and Faroe Islands previously taken in the 'Bull.-dogo ' we aogaini turned our course northwards for Thorshavn , as it was our initentioni to make this our poilnt of departure for the exploration of that north-eastern portion of the chailnel which lies between the Faroe and the Shetlaind Islands .
The weather having now cleared , we had on the morning of Saturday the 21st a most beautiful roLn along the series ot remarkably formed islands which we had last year only seen dimly through their covering of mist ; and on anchoring at Thorshavi in the afternoon , we received a cordial greeting fioim ouar excellent friend Governor IHolten , who , having been forewarrned of our probable visit , and having had our vessel in view for some hours , at once came off in hiis barge to welcome us .
69 .
The apparently settled state of the weather encouraged us to hope that we might be able to avail ourselves of this opportunity of visiting Myling I-lead , the remarkable precipice which forms the North-westernl point of Stromoe , the principal island of the Faroc group , and which falls 2100feet perpendicularly , its summit even slightly overhanging its base , so that a stone let fall from it drops into the sea beneath .
On inquiring from the Governor as to the best means of carrying our wish into eifect , he iniformed us that the tide runs so strongly round the islanids , that if we started with the morning flood , and our vessel kept its speed in accordance with the rate of the tidal wave , we should be able to make the whole circuit in six hours ; but that if we should attempt the expedition in any other mode , we should be tediously delayed by the strength of the opposing tide .
As we learned that high water would occur on the following Monday morning , at 4 o'clockt , we made * The height of Myling I-lead is commrsonly stated at 2500 feet ; but the above estimate is based on aln observation mllade a few yeais since with an Aneroid barometer by the Authors of " c The Cruise of the Yacht ' Maria ' among the Faroe Islands .
" t It is worthy of mention that a discrepancy between the Ship 's timie and the Island time ( as indicated by the Church clock ) having , led us to inquire into the mode in which our arrangements for anl early start ; and invited our kind host and hostess to give us the pleasure of their companiy .
The fine weather lasted throughout Sunday , two consecutive days of such brightness being a most unusual occurrence in .
this locality ; but early the nlext morning the Faroese climate vinldicated its character by a copious downpour of raini , which put our start at 4 o'clock out of the question , and , for the reason just mentionec , obliged us to give up the excursion altogether .
70 .
OUIr good fortuine in regard to weather returnied to us on the following day ; when we left Thorshavrn ( Aug. 24th ) about niooni , shaping our course about East by South , so as to cross the channel separating the Faroe from the Shetland Islands , the depth of which had beenl indicated by previous Soundings to be in some parts conisiderable .
Our first two Soundings showed that we were still over a plateau at little more than 100 fathoms from the surface ; but a third Sounding taken in the evening after a run of about 80 miles , gave us a depth of 317 fathoms , and a bottom-temperature of 3001 .
It became evident , therefore , that we were here again in the course of the frigid stream ; and we looked with much interest to the phenomena it would present in a still deeper part of the channel .
having kept the same course under easy steam during the night , we took a Sounding , the next morning at Stationi 64 ( Lat. 610 21 ' , Long. 30 44 ' ) ; and found that the depth had increased to 640 fathoms , and that the bottomtemperature was somewhat below 30 ? .
The dredge having been put down , the " haul " was a less satisfactory one than usual , though one very valuable specimen ( a large example of the Pourtalesia already mentioned , ? ?
36 ) was obtained here ; and in a subsequenit trial the dredge came up empty .
As this result appeared due to the circumstan-ce that the drift of the ship was too great , in conisequence of an increase of wind and swell , to permit the dredge to hold the ground , it was determined to devote the morning to a series of Temperature-soundings taken at every 50 fathoms from the surface downlwards .
This was very satisfactorily accomplished , with the result shown in Table 1 .
( p. 456 ) , from which it appeared that , with a lower surfacetemperature than in the series previously taken ( ? ?
65 ) , the rate of decrease during the first 150 fathomns was nearly the same , but that the rapid descent of the thermometer which showedl itself at Stationi 52 between 200 and 300 fathoms , here begani somewhat earlier , and proceeded somewhat more gradually , with the result , hiowever , of bringing down the temperatuire to 320 at a little below 300 fathorns , the whole of the water beneath that the latter was reguilated , we fouind that as there is 11ot ev , eni a Suss-dial in the Islands , / se time is kcept by the turnz of Ikse tides , the periods of which are precisely klown for each day of the lunation .
As nearly all the iiitercouse betweeo differenit villages and farmlhouses is carried ol ' by water , and as every Faroese is a boatmian and fisherman as well as a farmer , it is not to be wondered at that be sliould be pr-actically vcrsed in the periodical cbanges of the cutrrents by which his power of locomnotion is so greatly iniflLuenced , and that these should take the place of the meridian passage of the sUln ( which he has no means of observing with precision ) as Isis hest time-regulators , .
depth , down to the bottom of 640 fathoms , on which the temperature is 300 , being of icy coldness.-Thus the enitire mass of water in this channel is nearly equally divided inlto an upper and lower stratum , the lower beino an Arctic stream ( so to speak ) of nearly 2000 feet deep , flowing in a S.W. direction , beneath an upper stratum of comparatively warm water moving slowly towards the N.E. ; the lower half of the latter , however , having its temperature considerably modified by intermixture with the stratunl over which it lies .
71 .
Keeping still on the same course through the following night , we took a Sounding , early the niext morning ( Stationi 65 ) , which showed that we had crossed the deepest part of the channel , the depth having here diminished to 345 fathoms ; the bottom-temperature , however , was still most characteristic of the Cold area , being almost exactly 300 , the lowest we had met with at that comparatively moderate depth .
This circumstance , taken in conuexion with the earlier descent just noticed , corresponded well with the fact that the line between Lat. 61 ?
and Lat. 620 on which we had now crossed this chaninel , is niearer the source of the frigid stream than the lines between lat. 60 ?
and 60 ?
in which we had at first traversed it .
72 .
On the afternioon of the same day ( Aug. 26 ) , we again took a Sounding , which gave us the still further diminished depth of 267 fathoms ; and here ( Station 66 ) , with a surface-temperature of 522 ?
, which was but slightly above that of the previous Sounding , we found the 6ottom-temperature to be 45 ? ?
7 .
Now this was very nearly 12 ?
above the temperatuire takeni at the same depth at Station 64 ; whilst it was niearly 16 ' above the temperature last taken on a bottom only 78 fathoms deeper , at a Station distant only 18 miles .
Even this slight difference of depth , however , seems fully adequate to explain the remarkable contrast between the bottom-temperatures of these two Stations ; for , as already shown , the Arctic stream , in virtue of its greater Specific Gravity , occupies only that portion of the channel of which the bottom lies below about 320 fathoms ' depth , so that no part of it will flow over that portion of the bank of the channel which has a depth of only 267 fathoms .
The bottom on this banik , therefore , will be overlaid by the upper ( warm ) stratum alone ; and as the lower half of this is not here subjected to the reduction of teinperature which it sustains when underlaid by the frigid stream , the bottom will have the temperatulre characteristic of the Warm area , though not geographically included in it .
73 .
By the next morning we had come upon the shallow plateau on which the Shetlaiid islands are based ; and as we wished to examine some points in the Geographical distribution of the Fauna irnhabiting this locality , we ran past the northern point of the group , and devoted the day to dredging at about thirty miles to the east , on what is known as the HaIaf , or deep-sea fishing-ground .
OuLr dredging on this plateau was not very productive as regards variety ; but it brought up cvrtain types in such extraordiniary number as to show how abunidantly they must be diffused over the Sea-bed .
The most remarkable instance of this occurred in regard to the Echinus Norvegicu8 , a small sea-egg about the size of the top of the finger .
The " hempen tangles " came up so laden with these , that a very moderate estimate would place the number obtained in one " haul " at 20,000 , whilst some of oUr party deemed it to be nearer 50,000 .
This had formerly been accounted a rare species , of which it was considered a piece of good fortune to find one or two at a time , and was first met with in abundance in Mr. Jeffreys 's Shetlaiid Dredgings.-On the following day ( Aug. 28th ) we anchored in Lerwick harbour , where it was requisite for us to replenisl-h our coal , as well as to obtain a further supply of jars and spirit , the abunidance of ouir collections having nearly exhauisted what we had supposed to be our ample provision of both .
74 .
Withouit entering into details which will be more appropriately given hereafter , we may say that our explorationi of this Cold area , which we had been led by the results of our last year 's dredging to regard as comparatively poor in Aniimal life ( as , indeed , we should still have believed it to be , had our knowledge of its Fauna been restricted to the contents of the Dredge , instead of being chiefly obtained by the instrumentality of our , " hempen tangles " ) , greatly extended our ideas of the conditions of animal existence ; for we found the Sea-bottom , at depths of from 350 to 640 fathoms , at a temperature at or below the freezing-point of fresh water , almost , if not quite , as thickly covered with Animals as in the richest parts of the Warm area .
These ; e animals were mostly , however , of a very .
different character .
In the first place , the Globigerina-mnud was entirely wanting , its presence beinSg sharply bounded by the limit of the Warm area , and its composition being mnodified even on the borders of this by anl admixtuire of the Sand characteristic of the Cold area ( ? ?
61 ) .
Now this fact appears to be a coniclusive disproof of the bypothesis that the accumnulation of the shells of Glo13i4erinw on the bottom of the ocean is due to their having fallen to the bottom after death , their lives having beeni passed at or near the surface .
For admnitting that they have been occasionally captured by the tow-net-n , this only proves that they can float ; whilst , on the other hand , our examination of specimens freshly dredged from great depths enables tis to state with positiveness that their sarcodic bodies present all the attributes of life which are exhibit ( d by those of the I ?
otaltine forms whose attachment to solid bodies made it clear that they must pass their lives at the bottom , and of the XArenaceous types which cani only there obtain .
the materials for their " tests .
" Now sinice , as we have repeatedly pointed out , the stmoface-temperature of the Cold area does not di er from that of the Warm , and this equality extends to the first 1,150 or 200 fathoms , there seems no reason whatever why a deposit of Globiyerina-mud should not take place oln the bottom of the Cold area , if such deposit be due to the accumulation of the dead shells of inidividuals which had spenlt their * See Major Owen 's account of the Surface-Fauna of the Atlantic ; in Journal of the Linnean Society , vol. i. pi 147 .
lives at or near the surface .
Whereas if they really inhabit during their lives the bottom on which they are foiund in such extraordiniary abunidance , we have at oncee the explanation , in the difference of temperature between the two Areas , of their definite restriction to the Warm * .
75 .
The simple Protozoic type represented by the Glohbigerine , however , has its parallel in the Cold area , though presenting itself under a very different aspect .
EveryJ Zoologist now recognizes the close Physiological relationship betweenO Fyoramin fera and Sponges , notwithstanding , their wide m-lorphological divarication ; and we believe them to agree in .
this most important particular , -that the animals of both groups are capable of obtaining their nlutriment by the im-bibition of the Organiic matter diffused through sea-water ( ? ?
23 ) , juist as they derive from the same source the Carbonate of Lime or the Silex which forms the Mineral basis of their skeletons .
T'he Sponyes of the Cold area were very diverse in type , and some of them extremnely numerouis inidividually .
Maginificent specimens of most of the species hitherto klnownonly as inhabitants of the deep water off Slhetland were found to be very generally diffused ; but the most peculiar and novel type of this grouip was met with at our very entrance upon the Cold area ( Stationi 52 ) , and presented itself in such abundance at almost every other Station having the same bottom-temperature , that we camne to look uponl it as one of the most characteristic inhabitants of this area , covering ( as it seems to do ) hundreds of square miles of the Seabed .
This Sponge is distiniguished by the possession of a firm , branehihon axis , of a pale sea-green colour , rising from a spreading root , and extending itself like a shrub or a large braxnching Gorgonia .
The axis is clothed with the soft pale-yellow sarcodic substance of the Sponige ; and both axis and sponge-substance are crowded with Siliceous spicules , resembling those of ]Esperia , a well-known Mediterranean and Adriatic form , near which our Sponge must be placed , thouoh it clearly forms the type of a new genus .
It is curious that scarcely even fragments of this Sponge came up in the dredge , our specimens being almost entirely obtained through the instrumentality of the " hempen tangles " attached to it .
We had last year obtained some minute fragmenits of the axial portionis of the branches of this Sponge ; but they were so imperfect that we had not been able to make out their true characters .
76 .
The most remarkable F)oraminifera obtained in this area belonged to the Arenaceous Order ; and it is singular that whilst very abundant in the localities in which theywere met with , they seemed very restricted in Geographical ralnge .
Thus at Station 51 , which was intermediate between the Warm and the Cold area ( ?
( 4 ) , the " tangles " brought up an immense number of tubes usually from inch to 1 inchl longi , and about 8 of an inch in diameter , composed of sand-grains cemenited together .
These tubes often presented any appearance of segmenitation externally ; and they were at first supposed to be a mnodification of the straight chambered Litucolaj obtained on the bank of the Cold area last year , though differing from them in .
having no definite prominenrt imouth .
On breaking them open , however , it was fouind that the cavity is not divided into chambers by initerposed septa , as in Lituola , but that it is continuous throughout , though traversed in every part of its length by irregular processes built up partly of sand-grains and partly of sponge-spicules , strongly resembling those which have been recen-tly described by Mr. Brady in .
the gigantic Foraminiferal fossil Loftutsia , and which present their most symrnetrical arrangement in the yet more gigantic fossil Pariceria described in the same Memoir by Dr. Carpenter " These arenaccous processes lie in the midst of the sarcodic body , which fills the whole of the cavity withont any division into segments , and which communicates with the surrounding medium , at what appears to be the free extremity of the tube , by irregular spaces left between the agglutinated sand-grains that for-m a rounded termination which nearly closes it in .
At the other extremity , however , the tube is so uniformly open in the numerous specimeens that have been examined , and so generally presents anl appearance of fracture , that there seems strong ground for believing that this type ( to which we assign the generic designation Botellina ) muist grow attached by the lower enld of its tube to some fixed base , It is singular that while tnis fabric presented itself at no neighbouring Stationi , the " tangles " brought up in the comparatively shallow water near Shetland a number of tubes , which , though of somewhat larger size , and having their sand-grains yet more regularly agglutinated , presented so close a general resemblance to our Botellina , as strongly to suggest a similarity of character .
This idea , however , was soon dispelled by further examirnation ; for the tubes , when broken openi , proved to be as smooth internally as they were externally , and to be lilned by a definiite membranle ; in addition to which they were freely open , and their edges rounided off , at what appeared to be theilr last-formed extremity ; so that there remained no doubt that they had beeni constructed by some Tabicolar Annelid.-The true chaimbered Litutole fouind last year on the 1 70 fathoms bank , in the Cold area ( ' Lightning ' Report , ? ?
13 ) , were not met with this year ; but monothalamous " tests , " closely resemblinpg them in .
external appearaniee , were obtained in abunidance at Station 64.V7ith the exception of these Arenaceous types , the Foraoninifera mnet with in th Cold area were not remarkable either for number or variety ; and , as compared with their extraordiniary abundance in the WV arm area ( ? ?
87 ) , were rather " conispicuous by their absence .
" 77 .
The most marked feature in the Fauna of the Cold area was undoubt , , , Philoso pbical Transactions , u12)9 , P. s8 .
edly its extraordinary richness in Echinoderms , the prevalent types being of a decidedly Boreal and even an Arctic character .
During the course of our exploration we met with nearly all the members of this group which have been described by Scandinavian naturalists as inhabiting the coast and , fiords ot Norway ; and we were particularly struck with the abundance of the beautiful Antedon ( Comnatula ) Eschrichti , which has hitherto been obtained only from the neighbourhood of Iceland and Greenland .
On the other hand , such of the characteristically Southern forms as here presented themselves were so reduced in size that they might almost be accounted specifically distinct , if it were not for their exact conformity in general structure ; the Solasterpapposa , forexample , beingdwarfedlfrom sixinches in diameter to two , and having never more than ten rays , and the Asteracanthion violaceus and Cri6ella oculata being reduced in like proportion .
One striking feature of the group , however , showed no mnodification .
The coloration of these animals , though brought up from a depth of 500 or 600 fathoms , was as rich and beautifuil as that of their littoral representatives .
Their orange , violet , and scarlet blended admirably with the pale green of the large Sponge-stem when grouped together in a basin of water ; and we were led to wonder , on the one hanid , how such vivid hues could be produced in the absence of light , and , on the other , what purpose they can serve in the economv of animals which live on a bottom supposed to be entirely unillumined by solar rays , and which only exhibit these hues when brought within reach of daylight .
Whilst our explorations in the Cold area have thus added to the British Fauna a large number of types of Echinodermswhich had been previously supposed to lie altogether beyond its range , they have also brought up several forms which altogether are new to science , some of them of ver y considerable interest .
Thus in the Shetland channel we procured a full-sized specimen of the remarkable Clvpeastroid Pourtalesia , of which young examples had been obtained in the First cruise ( ? ?
36 ) , and a very singular Asterid allied to Pteraster , which is covered with a regular brush of long paxillm , .
Since , for the reason formerly mentionied , we have found ourselves precluded from dedicating the former of these types ( as we had intended ) to our friend Capt. Calver , we propose to give the generic name Calveria to the latter , with the specific designation hystrix .
78 .
Of the Crustacea of the Cold area , many are most distinictly referable to the Fauna of Spitzbergen , whilst others are characteristically Norwegian .
We were struck with finding attached to the " tangles , " on nearly every occasion , numerous specimens of very large Pycnogonids , measuring , when their limbs were extended , as much as four or five inches across .
The comparatively small forms of these animals that are common on our own shores are commonly found imbedded in the gelatinous layer that envelopes the surfaces of Algce ; and the suctorial character of their mouths , taken in connexion with the feebleness of their locomotive powers , seems to indicate that they are nourished by the ingestion of this material .
Hence it is probable that their gigantic representatives living on the Sea bottom make the same use of the sarcodic substalnce of the Sponges and Rhizopods which they there meet with * .
79 .
The Miollusca , which in the preceding Cruises usually constituted the prinicipal results of the dredgings , were here quite subordinate , as regards both number and variety , to the groups already alluded to ; and the difference between the Molluscail Fauna of the Cold and that of the Warm area was not by any mneanis as great as was shown in other groups .
One of the most interesting , types which we met with was a Brachiopod found living , at Stationi 65 in the Shetlancl channel , at a depth of 345 fathoms , and a bottom-temperature of 30 ?
, viz. the Ter ebratula septata of Philippi , =-7 .
septigera of Loven .
A variety of this species , from the Pliocene beds of Messina , bas been described and figuired by Prof. Seguenza under the name of Waldheinia Peloritana ; and it is clearly the same as the WValdheimia Floridana , found in the Gulf of Mexico by Pourtales , which our own numerous specimens so considerably exceed in size as to show that its most congenial home is in frigid water .
A single specimen was found of another rernarkable Brachiopod , the Platydia anomioides ot Scacehi ( or Morrisia of Davidson ) , hitherto supposed to be restricted to the Mediterranean .
Since in this case , also , the size of our specimen greatly exceeds that of the iMediterranean examples of the same species , being nearly double , the presumption is stronig that its original home is in the Boreal , perhaps even in the Aretic region .
80 .
Only a small number of Fishes were procured , but their scarcity may probably have been chiefly due to the unsuitableness of the dredges as a means of their capture .
The few species taken have been examined since our return by Mr. Couch .
The list includes a new generic form intermediate between Chincera and 3iacrourus , which was brought up from a depth of 540 fathoms in the cold area ; a new species of a genus allied to Zeus ; a new Gadus approaching the common Whiting ; a new species of Ophidion ; the type of a new genus niear Cyclopterus ; Blenniusfasciatus ( B3loch ) , new to Britain ; Ammodytes siculus ; a fine new Serranus ; a new Syngnathus ; with several others , which will be described in full hereafter .
81 .
having obtained the requiisite supplies at Lerwick , we left the harbour about noon on the 31 st of August , and ran southwards until we had passed Sumburgh HIeaed , when we steered towards the west , our object now being to examine the southern portion of the channrlel between the North of Scotland and the Faroe islands with the same minute attention which we had previously bestowed on its northerni portion .
Early the next morning we sounded ( Station 71 ) in Lat. 600 17'- , Long. 20 53 ' , and found the depth to be 103 fathoms , and the bottom-temperature 48 ? ?
6 , the tem* It seems worth while here calling to mind that a Pyonogonid of even yet more gigantic dimensions was among the specimens obtained by what was at that time considered very deep dredging in Sir Jamecs Ross 's Antarctic Expedition .
See 'Lightning ' Report , p. 178 , note .
perature of the surface being 52 ? ?
7 .
In the afternooni of the same day ( Station 74 ) the water had deepened to 203 fathoms , while its bottomtemperature had diminished to 470.6 , the surface-temperature being 52 ? ?
6 .
Another Sounding ( Station 75 ) taken only two and a half hours later , and at a distance of no more than 10 miles from the preceding , gave a depth of 250 fathoms , and a bottom-temperature of 41 ? ?
9-a reduction which clearly showed that the frigid current exerts no inconsiderable influence in this locality , the temperature at Station 66 , at the slightly greater depth of 267 fathoms , having l ) even 450.7 .
Having run about 30 miles during the night , we found ourselves early the next morning in Lat. 60 ? ?
36 ' , Long. 30 58 ' ; and here ( Station 76 ) , with a surface-temperature of 50 ' 3 , we found the bottom-temperature 29 ? ?
7 , at a depth of 344 fathoms , as at Station 65 .
Keeping on our westward course for 25 miles , we took another Sounding ( Station 77 ) at noon of the same day , which gave us a depth of 560 fathoms , and a bottom-temperature of 29 ? ?
8 .
This Station was only about twelve miles to the S.S.E. of the first point ( Station vi .
) at which we came upon the Cold area last year ; and it was interesting to have so complete a confirmation of the accuracy of , that observation , which had given us at the depth of 510 fathoms a temperature of 330.7 , which , when corrected for pressure , would be 31 6 .
82 .
Changing our course to the southward , we found on the afternooin of the same day ( Station 78 ) , after a ruln of about 20 miles , that the depth had diminished to 290 fathoms , and that the bottom-temperature had risen to 410.6 ; from which it appeared that the influence of the frigid stream was not quite so great , in proportion to the depth , as at Station 75 , though still very decided .
Keeping on to the southward during the night , we crossed the 100-fathom line , and found ourselves earlv in the morning ( Station 79 ) in Lat. 590 49 ' and Long. 40 42 ' , where the depth was only 92 fathoms , and the bottom-temperature 490.4 , with a surface-temperature of 52 ? ?
3 .
It seemed obvious , therefore , that the influence of the frigid stream did not extend over this shallower portion of the bed of the channiel ; and this conclusion was confirmed by the Soundings whiel we took at short intervals after altering our course to the N.W. , so as to pass again from this plateau into deep water .
For after steaming 7 imiles we found the depth 92 fathoms , and the bottom-temperatuLre 4904 ; proceeding 7 miles further , the depth was found to have increased to 142 fathoms , while the bottom-temperature was still 49 1 ; but a continuance of the same course for only 8 miles showed that the bottom rapidly descends here , as on other parts of the southern border of this channel , the depth at Station 82 having increased to 312 fathoms , whilst the temperature fell to 41 ?
P3 , showing a very precise accordance with the condition of Station 78 .
We were here only about 7 miles to the S.E. of our last year 's Station vii .
, where the depth was 500 fathoms , and the bottomtemperature 32 ? ?
2 , which when corrected for pressure , would be 300 1 ; and " it was thus very interesting to see how considerably the bottom-temperature varied with the depth , on the border of that deeper portion of the channel which gives passage to the Arctic stream .
In order to test this yet more completely , we proceeded about 7 miles to the northward ( Station 83 ) , so as to be almost exactly in the parallel of our last year 's Station vii .
, but about 7 miles to the eastward of it ; and here we found the depth to have increased to 362 fathoms , while the bottonm-temperature had fallen to 37 ?
05 .
Comparing this , however , with the bottom-temperature of 29-7 , found at Station 76 , at which the depth was rather less , it became obvious that the influLence of the warmn surface-current here extends to a greater depth .
83 .
Again changing ouLr course to the S.W. , in a direction nearly parallel to the 1 00-fathom line , so as to bring us to a part of the area not previously surveyed , we took a Sounding ( Station 84 ) early in the morning of Saturday , Sept. 4th , in Lat. 590 34 ' , and Long. 6 ? ?
34 ' ; and found the depth to be 155 fatlloms , and the bottom-temperature 49 ?
-1 , showing that we were again on a portion of the souithern bank too near the surface to be affected by the frigid stream .
And as , on sounding again ( Station 85 ) , after having run 6 miles in a northerly direction , we founid the bottom-temperature to have only fallen to 480 7 , while the depth had increased to 190 fathoms , it was obvious that the same condition still existed .
A further run of only 8 miles northwards , however , brought us suddenly into the Arctic stream ; the depth ( Station 86 ) being here 445 fathoms , and the bottomtemperature 301.-These very rapid changes of Submiarine Climate are of extreme interest in a variety of ways , but especially in their Zoological and Palkeozoological relations , as will be shown hereafter .
84 .
As we were now again approaching a part of the Area which had been previously explored with sufficient minuteness for our present purpose , and as we desired to extend our sturvey into a part of the Warm area removed from the immediate influence of the Arctic stream , our ship 's head was kept to the westward without any stoppage until the morning of Moiiday , Sept. 6th ; when we reached Long. 90 11 ' in Lat. 590 35 ' , this point being about 24 miles to the south of Station xiv .
in our last year 's Cruise .
Here a Sounding gave us ( Station 87 ) a depth of 767 fathoms , and a bottom-temperature of 41`5 ; and as it thus became obvious that we were in the Warm area , we thought it desirable to obtain a set of serial Soundings , for comparison , on the one hand , with those obtained on the Cold area , and , oln the other , with those taken in the former Cruises at similar depths on the border of the North Atlantic basin.-The results of these Soundings , given in Table I. , p. 456 , will be discussed hereafter ; and at present it will be sufficient to state that while they show that the influence of the Warm stream here extends through the entire depth , they also indicate that this is modified below 500 fathoms by the frigid streain ; the depression of temperature between 500 and 600 fathoms being almost exactly equal to that which presented itself between 100 and 500 fathoms .
-Our dredge here came up with the extraordinary load mentioned in the Introduction ( ? ?
8 ) as having severely tested the efficiency of our donkeyengine ; which , however , proved equal to its work , and landed on our deck half a ton of Globigerina-ooze , here showing very little intermixture with sand .
Like our similar haul at Station xvi .
last year , however , this mass contained but a small amount of the higher forms of Aiinimal life ; and as a continuance of our course still further west did not seem likely to furnish any additional results of importance , and as there would have been a risk of exhausting our coal in steaming against a head-wind , we thought it better to change our course towards Stornoway , taking a direction that should bring us again on the ground which we had previously found most productive .
In the afternoon of the same day we took another Sounding in Lat. 59 ' 26 ' and Long. 8 &amp; 23 ' , on the line of our outward track in the second part of the ' Lightning ' cruise last year , so as to establish the depth and temperature at an intermediate point between two distant stations ; and we here ( Station 88 ) found the depth to be 705 fathoms , and the botton-temperature 420.6 , thus showing a close accordaiice with the nearest Soundings previously taken .
85 .
Continuing our easterly course during the night , but making slightly to the northward , so as once more to come upon the Iioltenia-ground , we sounded early the next morning ( Sept. 7 ) in Lat. 590 38 ' , Long. 70 46 ' ; and found ( Station 89 ) that the depth had diminished to 445 fathoms , whilst the temperature had risen to 45 ' 6 , -tbus confirming by bottomsoundings the inference we had been led to draw from the ser ial soundings taken at Station 87 , that the influence of the frigid stream is exerted even in the Warm area at depths greater than 500 fathoms , in depressing the tenmperature of the body of water which it there meets , and with which it mixes .
Another Sounding taken after a further run of 7 miles in the same direction , which brought us very near to Station 49 , gave a similar depth and temperature ; but the character of the bottom now indicated the proximity of the Cold area , the Globigerina-ooze being here mingled with Sand .
86 .
We now changed our course to the S.E. , and after steaming about ten miles , put downi our dredge with its " hempen tangles " upon what we were assured by Capt. Calver was the spot ( as nearly as it could be determined ) upon which we had made the first deep-sea dredging in this Cruise ( ? ?
61 ) ; and the result of this last visit to our favourite grounld was such as to surpass our most sanguine expectations .
For the dredgge and the tangles alike came up laden with such a collection of the " treasures of the deep , " as we feel quite safe in asserting had never before been brought to the surface on any one occasion , -almost every specimen being such as would be accounted an important acquisition to Museums already most complete .
Iloltenias there were by the bucketful ; HIyalonemata ( one of them a new species ) with their " flint-rope " covered with the parasitic Palythoa , and bearing at their summit the living Sponge of which the " flint-rope " constitutes the radix ; the beautiful T1siphonia , or mushroom-shaped Sponge , in abundance ; Adrastca infundibulum , another Vitreous Sponge allied to Ilyalonerna ; and other types of the same group not yet described .
The Echinodermata also were very numerous , and maniy of them very large ; and they presented a great variety of most interesting types , nearly all of them being new to the British Fauna , though many had been previously described .
It was especially interestingto note the very marked difference between the .
Echinodern-Fauna of this region and that of the Cold area .
With the exception of a few species which seem able to maintain their existence through almost any range of depth and temperature , they were all diverse ; and whilst the mixture of decidedly Arctic forms , and the dwarfing of Southern types , gave a decidedly Boreal character to the Faunia of the Cold area , there was here a mixture of fully developed Southern types , among them a Sticliaster either identical with or closely allied to a species described from Madeira .
But the specimen of this group most initeresting to us ( perhaps the most remarkable capture made in the whole of our Cruise ) was a large Echinid allied to Astropyga ( belonging to the Family Diademidce ) , having a perfectly soft and flexible test ; the plates of the corona , thoughl retaining their normal number and arrangement , beino very thin and slightly separated from one another by the interposition of a flexible perisome , so that the test resembled an armour of chaini-mail , instead of the cuirass with which the ordinary Echinida are enveloped .
Two specimens of this remarkable type were obtained , -a perfect one at Station 89 , and another , considerably in)jured , but still serving for anatomical investigation , on our flolteniagroundl .
The perfect specimen is about 5 inches in diameter , and of a brilliant shade of crimson , altogether a most striking object .
This form at once recalled the very singular fossil from the White Chalk , two specimens of which are in the British Museum , described by the late Dr. S. P. Woodward under the name of Echinothuriafioris ; and though we would not affirm the actual identity of the existing form with the old , there can be no doubt of their very close affinity , and of the persistence of this remarkable type of structure from the Cretaceous to the present epoch .
Here also we obtainied a specimen of almost the only one of the Scanidinavian Starfish that we had not met with on British grournd , the Asteronyx Loveni , a very interesting modification of the Astropihyton type , having the same general plan of structure , but having the arms simple , instead of being subdivided in the manner which has given occasion to the designation Gorgonocephalus .
It is not a little curious that a dredging we subsequently took in the Minch , near the eastern shore of Sky , brought upsix specimens of this rare Echinoderm , thus confirming a surmnise previously formed , that the careful exploration of that channel would show that many types would be there found which have been hitherto supposed to be peculiar to Norway .
87 .
The Foraminifera obtained on this and the neighbouring parts of the Warm area presented many features of great interest .
As already stated ( ? ?
61 ) , several Arenaceous forms ( some of them new ) were extremely abundant ; but in additioni to these we found a great abundance of Miliolines of various types , many of them attaining a very unusual and some evell an unprecedelnted size .
As last year , we round Cornuspir ?
e resembling in general aspect the large Opercuiine of tropical seas , and Biloculinae and Tiloculinae far exceeding in dimensions the littoral forms of British shores ; a(nd with these were associated Cristellariw of no less remarkable size , presenting every gradation from an almost rectilineal to the Nautiloid form , and having the animal body in so perfect a state as to enable it to be completely isolated by the solution of the shell in diluite acid.-It is very interesting to remark .
that certain forms of this C ?
istellarian type are among the most characteristic Foraminiifera of the Cretaceous as well as of various Tertiary deposits ; and the simnilarity of some of these to existing forms is so close , that the continuity of the type from the Cretaceous epoch cannot be reasonably questioned .
It is further interesting to note that it has a great bathymetrical range , no difference showing itself between the Cristellarians of our Warm area and those found in the preceding Cruises at nearly three times the depth.-The continuity of Foraminiferal life is further indicated by the occurrence in the Globigerina-ooze of a number of Rotalian forms which are peculiarly characteristic of the Fauna of the Cretaceous period .
88 .
The cumulative evidence which we have thus obtaitned in support of the hypothesis advanced last year ( 'Lightning ' Report , p. 193 ) as to the uninterrupted continuity of the Cretaceous deposit on the North-Atlantic Sea-bed from the epoch of the Chalk-formation to the present time , will be more fully discussed hereafter .
But as , with the exception of the subsequent dredging in the shallow waters of the Minch already referred to ( ? ?
86 ) , our Zoological exploration of the sea-bottom came to a conclusion with the extraordinary climax just described , we may here mention an idea which formed the subject of much discourse between us at this period .
89 .
It is , we believe , the general creed of modern Geologists , that all Calcareous rocks have had , either directly or indirectly , an Organic origin ; and that the most perfectlv mineralized condition of such rocks affords no evidence to the contrary , there being abundant evidence that all traces of organic structure may be completely obliterated by subsequent metamorphic action .
Thus upheaved masses of recent Coral are frequently converted into subcrystalline Limestone , the organic origin of which would not be recognized by any feature in its molecular arrangement or composition ; whilst a change often presents itself ( as on the Antrimn .
Coast ) of a true Chalk into a subcrystalline Marble , under the combined influence of the heat and pressure occasioned by the intrusion of Volcanic rocks .
Now since there can be no question that the Chalk-formation in its entiretv owes its origin chiefly to the accumulation on the deep-sea bottom of the shells , or their debris , of successive generations of Foraminife2a which lived and moved and bad their being there , and since there can be as little question that there must have been deep seas at all Geological periods , and that the changes which modified the climate and depth of the sea-bottom were for the most part very gradual , the question niaturally arises whether we may not carry back the continuity of the accumulation of the Foraminiferal ooze on some part or other of the Ocean-bed into Geological epochs much more remote , and whether it has not had the same large share in the production of the earlier Calcareous deposits that it has undoubtedly had in that of the later .
Though it is altogether beyond doubt that some beds of Carboniferous Limestone ( for example ) were simply Coral reefs , covered with waving Crinoids and swarming with Brachiopod and other Mollusks , there are other parts of this formation which seem to have been deposited in much deeper waters ; and to these we should be inclined to ascribe a Floraminiferal origin .
This hypothesis seems not only probable on general grounds , but is supported by several remarkable facts .
It has long been known that certain beds of Limestone of Carboniferous age , in Russia and elsewhere , are almost entirely made up of an aggregation of Foraminiferal shells belonging to the genus Fusulina* ; and Prof. Phillips has described under the name Endothyra Bowmannit a Foraminiferal type which seeims nearly allied to Fusulina , and which he states to occur in great abundance with Textularia in the Mountain-limestone beds of the North of England .
Again , Mr. H. B. Brady has lately shown us , in a thin layer of Clay occurring in the midst of Carboniferous-limestone beds near Newcastle , an accumulation of Arenaceous Foraminiifera closely corresponding in type with the Saccamimina of Sars , which we found to be abundant , in many of the deeper dredgings of the earlier Cruises , on the easternl border of the North-Atlantic Sea-bed.-To this question , however , we shall recur in the discussion of the General Results of our Deep-Sea explorations .
90 .
Thoroughly well satisfied with the success of our third Cruise , both in the confirmation and extension it afforded of the conclusions as to the climate we had ventured to draw from the comparatively few and scanty data we had obtainied last year , and in the large mass of Zoological novelties we had collected , we now malde for Stornoway , and arrived there on the evening of Wednesday , September 8th .
If we had been free to dispose of the ' Porcupine , ' we might have takeen the opportunity of connecting the Third with the First Cruise , by exploring the deep bottonm to be found about 200 miles to the west of the Hebrides , as far south as the IRtockall bank , which had been the northern limit of the First Cruise .
But as our vessel was under orders to make a Hlydrographic Survey in the neighbourhood of Valentia , as soon as the scientific work of our Expedi-* The true zoological position of this Goenus , at presesnt only known as a Carboniferous type , has lately been settled by the microscopic examination of the minute structure of the shell of specimens preserved in a clayey stratum of the Carboniferous series in Iowa , U.S. , kindly forwarded to Dr. Carpenter by Mr. Meek , of Washington .
See the Monthly Microscopical Journal for April , 1870 .
t Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society of Yorkshire , 1846 , p. 227 .
tion should have been accomplished , we did not feel justified in interfering with that duty ; since we had no reason to anticipate that such exploration would add any scientific results of importance to those we had already obtained .
After coaling and refitting at Stornoway , therefore , we proceeded direct to Belfast , where we landed our collections , and took our leave of the ' Porcupine ' and her highly valued Captain and Officers , with an earnest hope that we may again be brought into the same conigenial companionship and hearty cooperationi in future explorations of the like kind .
GENERAL RESULTS .
PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY .
[ For this portion of the Report , Dr. Carpenter holds himself specially responsible ; his Colleagues , while concurring generally in bis views , being desirous of reserving their liberty to dissent from some of his conclusions .
] 91 .
Among the most important results of the ' Lightning ' Expedition was the discovery of the fact that two very different Submarilne Climates exist in the deep channel ( from 500 to 600 fathoms ) lying E.N.E. and W.S.W. between the North of Scotland and the Faroe banks ; a minimum temperature of 32 ?
being registered in some parts of this channel , whilst in other parts of it , at the same depths , and with the same surface-temperature ( never varying much from 52 ?
) the minimum temperature registered was never lower than .
46 ?
, thuls showing a difference of at least 140 .
Though it could not be positively asserted that these minima were the bottomn-temperatures of the Areas in .
which they respectively occurred , it was argued that they must almost necessarily be so : first , because it is highly improbable that Sea-water at 32 ' should overlie water at any higher temperature , which is specifically lighter than itself , unless the two strata have a motion in different directions sufficiently rapid to be recognizable ; and second , because the nature of the Animal life found on the bottom of the Cold area exhibited a marked correspolndence with its presumed depression of temperature , whilst the drift of which its Sea-bed is composed includes particles of distinctly Volcanic minerals , probably derived from a northernl source , the Sea-bed of the Warm area , on the other hand , being essentially composed of Globigerina-mud , and supporting a Fauna of a warmer temperate character.-This conclusion , it is obvious , would not be invalidated by any error arising from the effect of Pressure on the bulbs of the Thermometers ; since , although the actual temperatures might be ( as was then surmised ) from 2 ?
to 4 ?
below the recorded temperatures , the difference between them would remain unaffected , the pressure exerting exactly the same influence at the same depth , whether the Sound .
ings were taken in the Cold or in the Warm area .
92 .
The existence in the Cold area of a minimium temperature of 320 , with a Fauna essentially Boreal , could not , it was argued , be accounted for in any other way than by the supposition of an under-current of Polar water coming down from the North or North-east ; whilst , conversely , the existence in the Warm area of a minimum temperature of 46 ?
, extending to 500 or 600 fathoms ' depth in the Latitude of 60 ?
( of which the normal deep-water temperature would be at least 8 ?
less ) , together with the warmer temperate character of its Fauna , seemed equally indicativeof.a flow of Equatorial water from the South or South-west .
How far this flow is part of the " 'Guilf-stream " proper , -that is , of the current of heated water which issues through the " Narrows " from the Gulf of Mexico , -or is attributable to some more general cause , was reserved as a matter still open to discussion ; but it was urged that the existence of two such different Submarine Clinmates in such close proximity may be taken as an example of that continual interchanige between the Ocean-waters of Equatorial and Polar regions , which is as much a Physical necessity as that interchange of Air which has so large a share in the production of winds .
For the water that is cooled by the Polar atmosphere must sink and displace the water that is warmer than itself , pushing it away towards the Equator , so that in the deepest parts of the Ocean there will be a progressive movement in the Equatorial direction ; whilst , conversely , the water heated by the Tropical sun , being the lighter , will spread itself north and south over the surface of the ocean , and will thus move towards the Polar regions , losing its heat as it approaches them , until it is there so much reduced in t.emperature as to sink to the bottom , and thence return towards its source .
93 .
The doctrine of the Warm and Cold Areas , and of the probable source of their difference , has been fully and carefully tested by the Temperature-soundings taken during the Third Cruise of the ' Porcupine ; ' and the result has been a complete confirmation of it in every particular ; whilst an entirely new and important set of data has been afforded by the Temperature-souindings taken during the First and Second Cruises , in support of the doctrine that a general interchange of Equatorial and Polar waters is continually taking place in the great Oceanic basins .
94 .
The total number of Temperature-soundings taken during the 'Lightning ' Expedition , in water of more than 100 fathoms ' depth , was only 15 ; of which 8 were in the Warm area , and 6 in the Cold .
These were all Bottom-soundings only .
The total number of Stations at which Temperature-soundings were taken during the Third Cruise of the 'Porcupine , ' in water of more than 100 fathoms , was 36 ; of these , 17 were in the Cold area , and 14 in the Warm , whilst 5 showed an initermediate range , in accordance with their border position. .
But besides these Bottomsoundings , Serial Soundings were taken at different depths in three Stations ; of which No. 87 was in the Warm area , and Nos. 52 and 64 in the Cold .
In the first of these , which was at a point about 125 miles to the N.W. of Stornoway , the temperatures were taketn at.50 , 100 , 150 , 200 , 300 , 400 , 500 , 600 , and 767 fathoms ( bottom ) respectively , with the result of showing a reduction of only 1 1 ' ?
2 at the last-mentioned depth ; in the second , which was near the S.E. border of the Faroe Bank , the temperature was taken at every 50 fathoms down to 300 , and then at 384 fathoms ( bottom ) , showing a reduction of 21`5 ; while in the third , whichwas nearly midway between the Faroe and the Shetland Islands , the temperature was taken at every 50 fathoms down to 600 , and them at 640 fathoms ( bottom ) , showing a reductioni of 200 1 .
Of these Serial Soundings there were in all 26 , making , with the 36 Bottom-soundings , a total of 62 .
95 .
With these results , obtained with Thermometers upon which complete reliance can be placed , those obtained last year with the best ordinary Thermometers are found to be in close accordance , when the proper correction for pressure is applied to them .
Thus No. 47 Sounding of the 'Porcutpine ' having been taken in almost exactly the same spot of the Warm area as No. xii .
of the 'Lightning , '-namely , on what we now call the " lYoltenia-ground " ( ? ?
61 ) , the former gave 43`8 as the minimnum temperature at 542 fathoms , while the latter gave 470.3 as the minimaunm at 530 fathoms : and the difference of 30.5 exceeds by scarcely more thatn a degree-which m(ay be a mere seasonal variationi the error ( about 20.1 ) which the pressure of water at that depth would produce in the unprotected thermometers .
On the other hand , No. 5.5 Sounding of the 'Porcupinie ' having been taken in the same part of the Cold area as No. viii .
of the 'Lightning , ' the distance between the two being only about 8 miles , the former gave 290.8 as the minimum at 605 fathoms , while the latter gave 32 ?
as the ininimum at 550 fathoms ; and the difference of 2 ? ?
2 is exactly equiivalent to the correctioni for pressure at that depth in the unprotected thermometers .
Thus the difference between the two 'Lightning ' Sounding , s in the Warm and Cold areas respectively having been 150.3 , the difference between the two corresponding ' Porcupinie ' Soundings was 140 .
This very near accordance gave us , of course , a feeling of great satisfaction in our last year 's work ; and it fully justified our con-relusion that whatever might be the pressure-correction required by the instruments then employed , it would not affect the differences obtained at nearly approximating depths .
It further justifies us in assuming the correctness ( when thus rectified ) of the minimum temperatures taken last year at stations considerably westward of the ground over which we worked in the ' Porcupine .
' 96 .
The data thus obtained respecting the Temperatures at different Depths in the Warm and Cold areas respectively , are correlated in Table I. , which includes , with the three sets of Serial Soundings , all the Bottomsounding that accord with them .
The localities of the several Soundings are indicated by their Ntumbers in Diagram III .
TABLE I. Temperature of the Sea at different Depths in theWarm and Cold Areas lying between the North of Scotland , the Shetlaiid Isles , and the Faroe Islands ; as ascertained by Serial and by Bottom-Soundings .
( N.B. The Roman Numerals indicate the CLightning ' Temperature-Soundings , corrected for pressure .
) WARM AREA .
COLD AREA .
Series 87 .
Surface Bottom Series 64 .
Ser. 52 .
Surface Bottom .
Station Depth .
TempeTempe_ Station Depth .
TempeTempeDepth .
TempeNo .
rature .
rature .
Depth .
TempeTempeNo .
rature .
rature .
rature .
rature rature .
fathoms .
0 Fahr. fathoms . ?
Fahr. ?
Fahr. fathoms .
I Fahr. 0 Fahr. fathoms . ?
Fahr. 0 Fahr. 0 5z-6 0 49 7 52'1 50 48- ' 73 84 52"7 48-S 50 45'5 48 5 70 66 534 45'2 So 92 53 2 49'4 69 67 53-5 43-8 I00 47'3 I500 45.0 47 3 68 75 52 ' 5 44'0 71 I03 53'o 48-6 6I 114 504 45'0 Si 142 53'3 49*1 62 I25 49 6 44'6 150 47-0 84 I55 54'3 49'2 750 43'3 46'5 6o I67 49 5 44'3 85 190 53 9 487 IX .
1 70 52-0 4i'0 200 46'8 200 39 6 45 6 74 203 52'5 47'7 2-50 34'3 3 8'4 300 46.6 300 324 308 63 317 49'0 30'3 65 345 52'0 29-9 76 344 50'3 29'7 50 355 5z'6 46'2 350 37'4. .
54 363 52 ?
5 3 I74 46 374 53'9 46.o 384 '6 306 4Co 46'S 400 37'0 ... 86 445 53,6 30o ' 89 445 5 3'1 45'6 450 3G-6 9o 458 537I 45 2 S6 480 52'6 30'7 49 475 53 6 45-4 53 490 5P'7 30-0 500 45'1 500 30 ' !
... x. 500 5 I0 3o08 xIr .
530 52'5 448 58 540 5I'5 3o08 47 542 540 .
438 VIII .
550 53'0 29g8 XV .
570 520 43'5 550 30 .
' ... 77 56o 5o'9 29'S 59 580 52-7 29'7 6oo 430o 6co 29-9. .
XVII .
620 520O 43 ' S 55 6o0 5z6 29-8 XIV .
65o 53-o 42 5 57 63z 52'0 30'5 640 29'6. .
700 88 705 53'5 42'7 767 4I'4 On examining the Series taken at Station 87 in the Warm area , we lotice ( 1 ) that , the Surface-ternperature being 520.6 , there is a fall of 40.5 in the first 50 fathoms ; ( 2 ) that from 50 to 500 fathoms there is a slow progressive and nearly uniform descent amounting in the whole to 30 , which is at the average rate of about 0 ?
7 per 100 fathoms ; and ( 3 ) that this descent increases to 20 1 in the next 100 fatloms , and amouDts to lt 6 in the interval of 167 fathoms between O00 fathoms and the botton .
The relation between Depth and Temperature in the Warm area is represented diagrammatically in the accompanying Figure ; in which ( omitting fractional parts ) each line marks a descent of 10 Fahr. Diagram I. Fa Fuirthier , on comparing this Series with the bottom-souniding-s taken in 'variouis parts of the same area , the accor-dance is found to be extremely close ; no difference of more than a degree presenting , itself aijywhere , except at depthis of less than 200 fathioms , the bottom-temperatuires of which are higher by from 10 to 2'-2 than the temperatures at corresponding depths in the serial sounding .
This accordance becomes at once evident when the upper curve of Diag-ram IV .
, which is constructed from twelve bottom-soundings in the Warm area , is compared with the upper curve in Diagram III .
which represents the.serial soundings at Station 87 ; whiile the slight difference is just what might be expected , when it is borne in mind that the superficial stratum is not here underlaid by colder water .
97 .
Turning from these to the Series of Temperature-soundings taken at Station 52 in the Cold area ( distant less than 60 miles from Station 87 ) , which begins from nearly the same surface-temperature ( 520 .
1 ) , we see ( 1 ) that the descent duringthe first 50 fathoms corresponds so closely ZoO " , 250 with that observed in Series 87 , that the two temperatures at that depth are almost precisely the same ; ( 2 ) that at 100 fathoms the temperatures in the two series are identical ; ( 3 ) that at the depths of 150 and 200 fathoms there is only a very slight difference ; but that ( 4 ) whilst the reduction between 200 and 300 fathoms in the Warm area is only 0002 , it amounts to not less than 140.8 in the Cold area , bringing down the temperature at that depth to 300`8 ; and that ( 5 ) this is further reduced to 300.6 at the bottom of 384 fathoms.-Thus it is evident that a temperature of 320 would have been reached at somewhat less than 300 fathoms , and that the temnperature of the water occupying the 1 00 fathoms beneath was absolutely below the freezing-point of fresh water .
98 .
This result comes out even more strikingly in another Series ( No. 64 ) taken about 180 miles to the N.E. of the preceding , in the deep channel between the Faroe and Shetland Islands .
For we observe ( 1 ) that the surface-temperature is here 490.7 , or 2 ? ?
4 below that of No. 52 ; ( 2 ) that this difference is maintained with slight variation down to 150 fathoms ; ( 3 ) that a rapid descent of the thermometer here begins , a fall of 30.7 takino place between 150 and 200 fathoms , and a further fall of 50.3 between 200 and 250 fathoms , making a reduction of 90 in 100 fathoms , and bringinog down the temperature at 250 fathoms to 340.3 ; whilst ( 4 ) the fall between 250 and 300 fathoms is only 10.9 , and between 300 and 350 fathoms is 10 , bringing down the temperature at the latter depth to 310.4 ; and ( .5 ) that in descending through the lowest 290 fathoms , the temperature is reduced to 300 1 at 500 fathoms , and stands as low as 29 .
6 on the bottom at 640 fathoms .
The relation between Depth and Temperature in the Cold area is represented diagrammatically in the accompanying Figure ; in which , for the sake of better comparison with the precedilig , the upper portion is constructed from Series 52 ( so as to commence from the surface-temperature of 520 ) , and the lower portion from Series 64 , each linie markinog a descent of 10 Fahr. Dia , rram II .
Xa , eh* Flu % S_O _50 99 .
Henc-ne it is evident that a temperatuire of 320 would have been reached at somethiingmore than 300 ( say 320 ) fathoms ; so that the lower half of the water orccupying the deepest poirt of this channel forms a stream nearly 2000 feet in depth , having a temperature 6elow the freezing-point Offresh water ; and this notwithstandingthat the temperature of its surface and of its first 150 fathomns ' depth does not differ more from the temnper-ature of the surface and of the first 150 fathoms in the Warm area ( Series 87 ) than is accounted for by the difference of Latitude ( nearly 2 ' ) between the two stations..-These remarkable facts are expressed by , the two lower curves in Diagyram III .
, which are constructed from the Serial soundings in the Cold area , as the upper curve is from the Serial sounding in the Warm area .
-aQ os = cne C. ) _.i .
L , ,____ !
|____________ 100 .
Now on comparing these two series of Souindings with the Bottomsoundings taken at differenit parts of the Cold area , the accordance is founid to be extremely close , ino difference of more thian a degree being fouird anywhiere at depths greater than 3100 fathioms .
It is worthyv of note that at the shiallower depths of from 1 14 to 1 67 fathoms ( Nos. 60 , 6ii , 62 ) , the bottomiternpeiratures correspond more closely to the temperatures of the same depths in Series 64 than to those of Series 52 , the cold water coming nearer to the su-rface ; and this was still more remarkably the case withi No. ix .
, the sounding , obtained last year on a hank at 170 fathoms ( ' Lightning ' Report , ?
13 ) .
On referring to the Chiart it will be found that these four stations lie in the direct sweep of the Cold current setting from N.E. to S.W. , of which Station 64 is nearly in the centre .
These accordances are well exhibited in Diagraam I. , the two lower curves of which are constructed from 0Q_i 60 CZ Bottom-soundings , brought inito connexion with Series 52 and 64 respect tively.-Two intermediate series of Bottom-soundings , of which the particulars are given in Table II .
, are also shown in this diagram ; the peculia .
rities of which , when their places are sought out on the Chart , are readily accounted for .
Thus Nos. 66 , 71 , 72 , 73 , 74 , i75 , 78 , 79 , 82 , and 83 all lie along the S.E. bank of the deep channel between the Faroe Islands and the plateau on which the Shletland and Orkney Islands rest ; and the warm TABLE II .
Intermediate Bottom-temperatures , showing the intermixture of Warm and Cold Currents on the Borders of the Warm and Cold Areas .
Station Surface Bottom| Station Surface Bottom No. Depth .
TempeTeinpeNo .
Depth .
TenmpeTempe __t ~rature .
rature .
lraturc .
rature .
fathoms .
oo fathoms .
oo 72 76 52 '3 48 875 250 51*5 4I'9 79 76 52 2 48.9 78 290 522 4I 6 73 84 52 7 48'8 8z 3 12 52 3 4I 3 71 103 C3 0 48 6 83 362 53 2 37 5 74 2 03 52 ?
-5 47'7 66 267 5_24 45S7 51 440 516 _ 42'0 surface-current that comes up from the S.W. obviously extends over that bank , so as to modify in greater or less degree , according to the depth , the effect of the deep cold current coming down from the N.E. The intermixture of the two is well seen in Nos. 75 , 78 , 82 , and 83 , the depths of which range from 2.50 to 362 fathoms ; but at the shallower depths , ratnging from 76 to 203 fathoms , at which Nos. 66 , 7 I , 72 , 73 , 74 , and 79 were taken , the inifluence of the warlm surface-culrrent is obviously predomnillant .
On the other hanid , the position of No. 51 marks it as just on the border ground between No. 50 , which was taken at or near the northern margin of the warm current , and Nos. 52 , 53 , which clearly lie within the southern margin of the cold ; and we thus see how the southern and deeper portion of the cold current may here lose itself by intermixture with the warm ; whil st the northerln portion seems to flow onwards unchanged over the shallower bottom , until , having , passed the Faroe Banks , it runs down the slope forming the eastern margini of the great Atlantic basin , to the deeper waters of which it helps to impart the coldness by which they will presently he shown to be characterized .
101 .
Although we have spoken of " currents , " it is not to be inferred that we have detected any actual opposing mnovements in the waters of the two Areas respectively , or in the warm superficial stratum of the Cold area as compared with its deep frigid layer .
But it may be assumed as a physical necessity that a great body of ice-cold water could not be always spread over the bottom of a large area between Lat. 5961 and Lat. 620 , often to a depth of 2000 feet , unless it had arrived thither from within the Arctic circle ; and , cornverselv , it can scarcely be conceived that the upper stratuim of this very area should maintain a temperature equal to that of the Warm area ( a slight allowance being , made for difference of Latitude ) , without a continual flow of a warmer stream from some southerly quarter .
-A further indication of the derivation of the deep water of the Cold Area from a northern source is afforded by the presence , among the small stones and sand brought up from this bottom , of Volcanic deti-itus , which seems to have been brought southwards either from the Faroe Islands or from some more remote source , such as Jan Meyein .
The presence of Volcanic detritus on that part of the floor of the channel between the Faroe Islands and Iceland which lies between its deepest point and the S.E. shore of Iceland has beeni already urged by Dr. Wallich * , with great force , as an argument for the existence of " an offshoot of the Arctic current slowly mnoving downwards " in a linie about 250 miles to the westward of that which we consider ourselves to have now conclusively established ; and it can scarcely be doubted that a set of Temperature-soundings taken in " the 682-fathom locality about forty miles from the southern shore of Icelaid " would give Thermomietric results similar to those we have obtained in the corresponiding channel between the Faroe and Shetland Isles.-The irnport of the presence of similar Volcaniic detritus on the bed of the Mid-Atlantic , as first poirnted out by Prof. Bailey , will be considered hereafter ( ? ?
117 ) .
102 .
Although the thermal condition of the Warm area does not afford the like striking evidence of the derivation of its whole body of water from a Southern source , yet a careful examiniation of its pheniomena seerns failly to justify such an inference .
For it has been shown by the Serial sounding No. 87 in Lat. 590 35 ' , that while the surface-water is about 4'0 warmer than the water at 50 fathoms ' depth , the latter is only 0 ? ?
8 warmer than the water at 100 fathoms ; and that below this the thermometer remains almost stationary down to 400 fathoms .
Now at that depth it is only 20 ?
4 colder than water at the same depth ( Station 42 ) at the northern border of the Bay of Biscay , in a Latitude more than 100 to the south , where the surface-temperature was 620'7 ; and the approximation of the two temperatures is yet nearer at still greater depths , the bottom-temperature at 767 fathoms at Station 87 being 41j04 , whilst the temperature at 750 fathoms ' depth at Station 42 is 42 ? ?
5 .
So great an excess above the Isotherm of Lat. 590 35t can scarcely be attributed to the summer atmosphere of the locality , which we scarcely ever observed to be above 540 , and of which the effect , if exerted at all , seems limited to the " superheating " of the superficial strattum .
It is obvious , agail , that the surface-drift caused by the prevalence of South-westerly winds , to which some have attributed the phenomena usually assignied to the extension of the Gulf-stream to these regions , cannot account for such an elevation of temperature in a stratum altogether rernoved from its agency ; and it seems equally difficult to colnceive that in a region so remote from the source of the Gulf-stream proper , its influenice , even if exerted in an elevation of the surface-temperature , should extend to a depth of at least 400 fathoms .
It may be pretty certainly affirmed , indeed , that the effect of the warm current is exerted to the very bottom of the AAWarm area : for its temperature even at 767 fathoms is 41 -4 , which is several degrees above the theoretical isotherm of the latitude ; and such a temperature could scarcely be maintained at this elevationi against the depressing influence of the Polar current which here mingles with it , were it not for a contillual influx of warm water from a Southern source .
103 .
Thus the doctrine of a general interchange between Polar andEq quatorial Waters ( ? ?
92 ) seems the only hypothesis that is competent to account for the facts of this case* ; and it will be found to derive further support from the Temperature-phenomena of the North-Atlantic basin , which we shall presently discuss on the basis of the Thermometric observations taken in the F irst and Second Cruiises of the 'Porcupine , ' with additional evidence from other sources.-Before proceeding to these , however , we shall inquire whether any rationale can be given for the special peculiarity of the Arctic current , which produces the depression of temperature to from 32 ?
-30 ?
everywhere noticeable at depths of from 300-640 fathomns in our Cold area .
104 .
A glance at the North Polar region , as laid down either on a Globe , or on any projection of which the Pole is the centret , -as in the accompanying Chart ( Plate 7 ) shows that the Polar Basin is so much shut-in by the northern shores of the European , Asiatic , and Am-erican Continents , that its only outlet , besides the narrow and shallow channel of Bebring 's Straits , and the circuitous passages leading irnto Iludson 's and Baffin 's Blays , is the space which intervenies betweeni the eastern coast of Greenland and the north-western coast of the Scandinavian Peniinsula , If , therefore , there be any such general movement of ice-cold water towards the Equatorial regions as that for which we have argued , this movement must take place mainly through the deeper portions of this interspace ; at the north of which lies Spitzbergen , whilst Iceland and the Faroes lie in the middle of its southerly expanse .
Now in the western portion of this channel , lying between Greenland and Iceland , the depth of water for the most part ranges from 800 fathoms to nearly double that amount ; and there will here , therefore , be a free exit to the water which has been cooled down within the Arctic basin , and has consequently subsided to its deeper portions .
But on the eastern side of Iceland the case is very dif* The existence of " Polar Currents " beneath the heated waters of Tropical regionis bad been indicated by various observers ( see 'Lightning ' Report , p. 186 ) ; but they seem to have been generally , if not universally , regarded as local peculiarities .
Conversely , a movement of Equatorial water in the Polar direction , quite independent of such local accidents as those which produce the G ulf-str-eam proper , had been noticed in several localities ; particularly between the Indian and Antarctic Oceans ( see Maury 's 'Physical Geography of the Sea , ' ? ? ? ?
748-750 ) , where the whole movement is forced to take place towards the South pole , by the barrier interposed by the Continent of Asia to any flow in a northerly direction.-The real import of such facts as these could not be recognized by Physical Geographers , so long as they were under the " dominant idea " of a uniform deep-sea temperature of 39 ?
; and our present endeavour is simply to show that the doctrine of Oceanic circulation , being at the same time in accordance with Phvsical theory ( as laid down by Prof. Buff ) , and conisonant with all the reliable facts yet observed , is entitled to the same rank as a fundamenital principle in the science of Physical Geography , as the parallel doctrine of Atmospheric circulation holds in Meteorology .
t The ordinary Hemispherical projection of our Atlases does not give by any means a correct idea of this Polar Basin ; and the Mercator 's projection ( which is employed by Dr. Wallich ) so exaggerates the Longitude-distances in high Latitudes , as to give an entirely fallacious cornception of it .
2N ferent .
Save in the narrow channel of 682 fathoms already mentioned as existing near the S.E. of Iceland , there is no depth as great as 300 fathoms along the whole bottom as far as the Faroe Islands* ; and an effectual barrier is thus interposed to any current moving , southwards at a depth exceeding this .
A similar barrier is presented , not merely by the plateau on which the British Islands rest , but also by the bed of the North Sea ; which ( as its depth nowhere exceeds 100 fathoms between the coast-line of the British Isles from Shetland to Dover on one side , and the coast-line of Norway , Denmark , and Iolland from Bergento Ostend on the other ) must give to such a movement a not less effectual check than would be afforded by an actual coast-line uniting the Shetland Islands with Norway .
Consequently it is obvious that a flow of ice-cold water at a depth exceeding 300 fathoms from the surface , downi the north-eastern portion of this initerspace , can only find its way southwards through the deep channel between the Faroe and Shetland Islands , which will turn it into a S.W. course , and finally discharge it into the great iNorth-Atlantic basin , where it will meet the Icelandic and Greenland currents , and unite with them in spreading over the deepest portions of the sea-bed .
105 .
Hence it is obvious that if a subsidence were to take place in the area now covered by the North Sea and the British Channel , so as to depress their bottom below the level of that of the channel betweeni the Faroe and Shetland Islands , the course of the Arctic current would be deflected from the latter to the former , lowering its bottom-temperature by at least 14 ?
; and as the warmer current coming up from the S.W. , and now ocupying our Warm area , would then meet with no check , it would extend itself over the whole of what is olow our Cold area , and would raise its temperature at least 12 ? .
This would have the general effect of altering almost the entire Fauna of both regions ; and of modifying the characters of the deposit forming on the bottom of each .
106 .
Atlantic Basin.-Duriug the First and Second cruises of the ' Porcupine , ' the Temperature of the eastern border of the great North-Atlantic basin was examined at various depths and in widely different localities .
Serial soundings were taken at no fewer than seven stations ; the most Northerly of these being not far from Rockall Banik in Lat. 56 ' 8 ' , whilst the most Southerly was at the northern border of the Bay of Biscay , nearly 300 miles to the west of Ushant , and in Lat. 470 38 ' .
At Station 42 the temperature was taken at every 50 fathoms , from the surface downwards to the bottom at 862 fathoms ; at Station 23 the temperature was taken at every 100 fathoms , to the bottom at 630 fathoms ; and at the other Stations , at which the depths ranged from 1263 to 2090 fathoms , the Soundings were taken at every 25 0 fathoms.-Besides these , the Bottontemperature was taken at upwards of 30 Stations , rannging in Latitude from 56 ? ?
58 ' to 47 ? ?
38 ' , and in Depth from 54 to 2435 fathoms.-The most important of the results thus obtained are presented in Table III .
37 ( which was that of the 2435 fathoms ' dredging ) , and to 660 at Station 34 : whilst it fell in the more Northerly Stations , which lay between Lat. 530 41 ' and 540 531 , to 54 ?
08 at Station 19 , to 53`2 at Stationis 17 and 18 , though these were rather to the southward of the preceding , and to 520.2 at Station 12 , which was yet further south .
A comparison of the temperature of the Surface-water with that of the Air at each Station indicates that a large part of the variation in the former is due , on the one hand , to the heating effect of the solar rays , and on the other to the cooling influence of winids .
Thus at three Stations at which the Surface-temperatures were 640 8 , 650 6 , and 660 respectively , the thermometers in Air showed 630 5 , 70 ?
, and 720 ; whilst at four Stations at which the Surfacetemperatures ranigedl downwards from 540.8.to 52 " ?
2 , the temperature of the Air ranged from 550.5 to 53 ? .
In only one inistance was the temperature of the Air decidedly lower than that of the Surface-water ; and this was at Station 42 , where , ugh the Suirface-temperature was 620.6 , the temperature of the Air was only 59 ? .
But as this observation was made at 4 " 30 " ' on the morning of July 27 , and as the wind was from the N , W. , the discrepancy may be regarded as accidental .
108 .
At the last-mentioned Station , in Lat. 490 12 ' , about 250 miles to the S.W.of Cork , a Seriesof Temperature-soundingswas taken atevery 1 0fathoms from the surface to 50 fathoms , with the view of determining the rate of thermal decrease at successive depths in the superficial stratum .
The total decrease in this descent amounted to 904 ; the most rapid diminution being between 20 and 30 fathoms , within which vertical space the reduction amounted to 3 ? ?
4 .
In the next 10 fatlloms it was only 10 6 , and in the 10 following , only V ?
2 .
Between 50 and 100 fathoms the total reduction was only 20.1 ; and it may be fairly surmised that a large part of this occurred in the upper 20 fathoms ; for below 100 fathoms the rate of diminution becomes extremely slow , the total redcuction between 100 and 500 fathoms being only 307 , or at an average of 09 per 100 fathoms .
The rate of diminution then again becomes more rapid , the total reduction between 500 and 800 fathoms being,.50.4 , or 10.8 per 100 fathoms ; and between 800 and 862 fathoms ( bottom ) there is a still more rapid diminution , a reduction of 20.3 taking place in this comparatively small descent .
109 .
On comparing with this the Series taken at every 100 fathoms at Station 23 , in Lat. 560 13 ' , we see a very close general accordance in the rate of descent ; although the actuial temperatures of the latter are from 20 to 30 lower than those of the former at corresponding depths , as might be expected from its higher Latitude ' .
In the Surface-temperature , indeed , the difference amounts to 50.3 ; but this becomes reduced to , 2`6 at 100 fathoms , to 20-5 at 200 fathoms , to 10-8 at 3-00 fathoms , and to 10.0 at 400 and 600 fathoms .
The total reduction in the first 100 fathoms is here 8`8 , as against 110 5 in the preceding case ; while the reduiction between 100 and 500 is also rather less , being 20.7 .
1 10 .
Extending the comparison to a Series taken still further northwards , namely at Station 87 in Lat. 590 35 ' ( more than 100 to the north of Station 42 ) , the same general accordance presents itself in the rate of descent ; while the actual temperatures at the several depths below 100 fathoms are by no means as different as might be expected from the difference in the geographical position of the Stations , as will be apparent from the following Table : TABL-E IV .
Comparative Rates of Reduction of Temperature with Increase of Depth , at three Stations in different Latitudes , all of them on the Eastern Margin of the Atlantic Basin .
STATIoN 42 .
STATION 23 .
STATION 87 .
Depth .
Lat. 49 ? ?
12 ' .
Lat. 560 13 ' .
Lat. 590 35 ' .
Teriperature .
Differenrce .
Temperature .
Difference .
Temperature .
Differelnce .
fathoms .
000 Surface 6z 6I 57 3855 55 11-5 8.8 5 " z I00 5-I* 4855 47 3 o-6 0-5 0.5 200 50 ?
5 480o 46-8 300. .
49 6 09 47-8 0.3 46 6 O.z 0-3 0-5 400 48 .
5 I-8 47*5 46-I I-O 3'8 1-7 1.0 500 46 7 45 8 453 12z 1-3 2 6oo 45 5 44-5 ... ... 4340 3-0 750 42 5 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . . !
I-6 767 4.4 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
4I.4 Although the difference between the Surface-temperatures at Stations 42 and 87 amounts to 10 ? ?
1 , the difference is reduced to 30 8 at 100 fathoms , to 30 at 300 fathoms , to 20.5 at 600 fathoms , and to 10 1 at 7.50 fathoms .
So , again , the reduction in the first 100 fathoms at Station 87 being only 50 ?
2 , the total reduction between 100 and 500 fathoms is only 20 2 , or at the rate of 0 ? ?
55 per 100 fathoms .
But the rate of depression then undergoes nearly as marked an increase as at the corresponding depth in Station 42 ; for whilst the diminution of temperature between 500 and 750 fathoms amounts at Station 42 to 40 2 , or 10.7 per 100 fathoms , it amounts at Station 87 to 30.7 , or 10.5 per 100 fathomns .
111 .
It becomes obvious , therefore , in the first place , that there is a decided superheating of the superficial stratum , not extending to a depth much greater than 70 or 80 fathoms , and that this is more considerable ( as might be expected ) at the Souithern than at the Northern stationis .
Whether this " superheating " is entirely due to the direct influence of solar heat , or depends in any degree ( especially in the southern portion of this area ) on an extension of the Gulf-stream , is a questioni which can only be resolved by the determination of its relative arnount in summer and in winter ; and as this solution could be very easily obtained ( sets of Temperature-soundings at every I0 fathoms down to 100 fathoms , taken in these opposite periods of the year , being all that is requisite ) , it may be hoped that the cause of this " superheating " will not long remain undetermined .
112 .
With regard , secondly , to the Temperature of the 400 fathoms beneath the superficial 100 , wlicih ranges between,510 1 and 46 ? ?
7 in Lat. 490 12 ' , between 48 ?
05 and 450 ?
8 in Lat. 560 13 ' , and between 470 3 and 450.1 in Lat. 590 35 ' , it may be pretty certainly affirmed that whilst it is somewhat higher than the Isotherm of the Southerln station , it is so considerably above that of the Isotherms of the Northern stations , as decidedly to indicate that the body of water between these depths has found its way thither from a Southern source ( see ? ?
102 ) .
1 3 .
Proceeding , thirdly , to the still greater depths of which the Temperatures are recorded in Series 202 ( 1263 fath .
) , Ser. 19 ( 1360 fath .
) , Ser. 20 ( 1443 fath .
) , Ser. 21 ( 1476 fath .
) , and Ser. 38 ( 2090 fath .
) , all which are in remiiarkably close accordance with each other , we meet with a decided change in the rate of decrease of temperature at equal intervals of depth ; for whilst the average of the whole five gives a reduction of no more than 1 ?
6 between 250 and 500 fathoms ( that is , 0 ?
G6 per 1 00 fathoms ) , the reduction betweeni 500 and 750 fathorns is 50.4 , or at the rate of 20.1 per 100 fathoms ; while between 750 and 1000 fathoms it amounits to 3 ?
l , bringing down the temperature at the latter depth to any average of 38'-6 .
Thongh the rate of diminlution of temperature them becomes slower , there is still a progressive decrease of temperature with increase of depth , the total reduction between 1000 and 2090 fathoms being just 20 , so as to bring down the temperature at the latter depth to 3603 .
114 .
WJith these Series the numerous Bottom-temperatures taken ill the First and Second Cru:ises , arid tabulated in Table Ill. , are for the most part in rematkably close accordance .
This accordance is greatest at depths between 1000 and 2435 fathoms ; the temperature at the last-mentioned depth showing no reduction* below that of the 2090 fathoms ' sounding .
The accordance between the Serial and the Bottom-soundings is not so constant , however , at smaller depths ; the temperature of the bottom being in several instances from two to four degrees lower than that of the corresponding stratum in the serial soundings .
Thus in No. 24 , at a depth of only 109 fathoms , the bottom-temperature was 460.5 , or 4 ?
below the ordinary temperature at that depth .
In No. 26 , at a depth of 345 fathoms , the bottom temperature was 46"-7 ; at least 20 below the average .
In No. 23 6 , at 664 fathoms , the bottom-temperature was 41-6 , and in No. 12 , at 670 fathoms , the bottom-teinperature was 420 6 , being , in the one case about 22 and in the other about 1 ?
below what might have been expected at those depths .
These differences suggest the hypothesis that variations in the same scale as the two preceding figoures of the same kind ( pp. 457 , 458 ) enables the relation between Depth and Temperature in the Atlantic Basin to be compared with the like relation in the Warm and Cold Areas respectively .
For the sake of convenience , the Surface-temperature is here taken at 540 , this ( as shown in Table III .
) having been its average at those Stations in which the " superheating " did not conspicuously manifest itself .
116 .
When the rates of decrease of Temperature in successive strata of this deep Atlantic Basin are compared with those which have been shown to exist in the thinner strata of our comparatively shallow Cold area , a very remarkable relation presents itself , the Thermometric changes requiring in the former case a much greater Bathymetric descent than in the latter , but corresponding very closely with them when this allowance is made .
This relation may be presented to the mind by ideally extending Diagram II .
in a vertical direction , so that its horizontal lines should be separated by four times their interval .
It has been shown ( ? ?
98 ) that in the latter the stratum of about 1 00 fathoms which lies below the superficial 50 shows but a very slight decrease of temperature , presenting almost exactly the same rate of descent as the stratum between similar depths in the neig , hbouring Warm area .
Now with this 100 fathoms ' stratuim , a stratum of about.500 fathoms beneath the superficial 100 in the deep Atlantic very closely corresponds , the reduction down to 500 fathoms being at an extrenmely slow rate .
Between 150 and 300 fathoms in the Cold area , however , the rate of reduction becomes very much greater ; and this is just what presents itself in the Atlantic Basin between 500 and 1 000 fathoms ; so that as in the Cold area we come down at very little below 300 fathoms upon a stratum of ice-cold water , so in the Atlantic basin we come ( lown at 1000 fathoms upon a stratumn averaging 380.6 .
And further , as there is below this a slow progressive diminution of about 2 ?
as we descend through the lower 300 fathoms of the Cold area , so a like progressive diminution is shown as we deseend through the lower 1000 fathoms of the deep Atlantic Basin .
I 17 .
The significance of these facts becomes yet more apparent , when the varying rates of diminiution of temperature in suceessive strata of the deep Atlantic Basin are reduced to a curve ( Diagram .
VI .
) , in the same manner as the corresponding rates in successive strata of the Cold area ; but with a reduction in the scale of depths in the former case , so as to make 500 fathoms in the deep basin correspond with 150 in the comparatively shallow ehanlnel .
It is true that there is by no means the same absolutte reduction in the one case as in the other ; but this difference is just what would be anticipated on the hypothesis we have been advocating .
For if it be supposed that the body of ice-cold water brought down from the Arctic basin by the various Polar currents is discharged into the wide and deep Atlantic Basin , it will tend to diffuse itself over its bottom , partly displacing and partly mingling with the water which previously occupied it , so as to form a stratum of considerable thickness , which , while miuch colder than the water nearer the surface , has lost the extreme frigidity which characterizes the current at a comparatively small depth when it comes fresh from the Arctic basin .
And just as the rapid descent of temperature between 150 0 and 300 fathorns in the Cold area may be taken to inidicate that this is the stratum of intermixture betweeni the warm superficial stream coming from the Southward and the deep flow of ice-cold water coming from the Northward , so may the like rapid diminution between 500 and 1000 fathoms in the Atlantic basin be taken as indicating that this is the sVtratum of intermixture between the great body of surface-water carrying , a higher temperature from the Equatorial towards the Polar regions , and the diluted Polar stream which seems to occupy all the deeper parts of the basin to within about 1000 fathoms of the surface , and thus carries back Polar water to the Equatorial area .
11 8 .
These iniferences are fully borne out by the Ternperature-sounldings recen'tly taken by Commander Chimmo , R.N. , and Lieut. Johnson , R.N. , at various points of the North-Atlantic Basini ; for although the temperatures of these Soundings were recorded by unprotected Thermometers , yet the error to which the best of those instruments are subject from the effects of pressure at different depths can now be estimated , and the requisite correction applied to each observation , so as pretty certainly to give the true temperature in each case within a degree .
These Soundings .
give a temperature of about 390 at 1000 fathoms , which is almost exactly accordant with the average of our own ; but the " stratum of intermixture , " indicated by the rapid reduction of temperature with increase of depth , seems to lie rather nearer the surface , the rapid reduction commencing at about 400 fathoms instead of at about 500 .
Below 1000 fathoms , at depths progressively increasing to 2270 fathorns , the temperatures are in extraordinarilv close accordance with our own , the minimum , however , apparently falling a little lower .
Thus at 2270 fathoms , the temperature recorded by an unprotected Casella thermometer was 440 ; but the estimated correction for the instrument at that depth being 9 ?
, the real temperature would be 350 119 .
It has thus beeni shown that the hvpothesis advanced in our preceding Report , when worked out in connexion with the peculiar Geographical relations of the Arctic to the North-Atlantic basin , goes far to account for the two orders of phenomenia which have now been exaniiaed , namelY:(I .
) The movement of a vast body of warm water , extending to a depth of several hundred fathoms , in a north-east direction , which moderates the cold of the Boreal area by bringing into it the warmth of that vast expanse of the North-Atlantic Oceani which is heated beneath the Tropical sun .
( II .
) The existence of a flow of ice-cold water , at depths greater than 300 fathoms , in a south-west direction along the floor of the channel between the North of Scotland and the Faroe Islands , which contributes , with other frigid streams from the Arctic basin , to diffuse over the NorthAtlantic sea-bed , at depths greater than 1000 fathoms , a Temperature below 390 , ranging downwards with increase of depth to about 35a .
And it further appears:(III .
) That the " Gulf-stream " may be regarded as a kind of intensification of the ordinary flow of Surface-water from the Equatorial to the Polar area , this intensification being due to the peculiar local conditions which produce an extraordinary " superheating " of water in the Gulf of Mexico , and the diffusion of this superheated water thence over a vast proportion of the North-Atlantic area , raising its Surface-temperature by several degrees .
IV .
) That the Frigid stream which imparts to our Cold area , in the latitude of the Shetland Islands , a Bottom-temperature below 300 , may in like manner be considered as an intensification of the ordinary flow of deep water from the Polar to the Equatorial area , this intensification being due to the peculiar local conditions which limit the flow into the Atlantic basin of the water that has been cooled in the Polar basini , and thus keep it from intermixture with warmer water , whilst , by the narrowing of its channiel , it is forced up nearer to the surface .
( V. ) That as the temperature of the Gulf-stream is reduced , and the depth of its stratum diminished , the further it diffuses itself over the stirface-water of the Atlantic , so the temperature of the Frigid Stream is raised by admixture with the warmer water through which it diffuses itself in the Atlantic basin , whilst it descends deeper and deeper beneath the surface with the increasing depth of the floor on which it rests .
120 .
It may be questioned , however , whether the low temperature thus shown to prevail , not only over the deepest portion of the North-Atlantic sea-bed , but throughout the enormous mass of water which lies below the " stratum of intermixture " ( ? ?
117 ) , is attributable solely , or even principally , to the cooling effect of the comparatively small quantity of frigid water discharged from the Arctic basin into this vast area , through the narrow channels previously indicated ( ? ?
104 ) .
For it is to be remembered that the converse heating-action exerted by the solar rays over the southern portion is continually pumping up this cold water ( so to speak ) from the depths to the surface ; and that this movement will be aided from below by the heat continually imparted from the solid ocean-bed to the colder water which rests upon it .
Now as the most trustworthy observations on Deep-seaTemperatures under the Equator , ugh few in number * , indicate that even there a temperature not much above 32 ?
prevails , it seems probable that part of the cooling effect is due to the extension of a flow of frigid water from the Antarctic area , even to the north of the Tropic of Cancer .
It seems impossible to give any other explanation of the low temperatures observed in the 'Hydra ' soundings across the Arabian Gulf t , since no frigid water from the Arctic basin could be supposed to find its way to that locality .
121 .
The unrestricted communication which exists between the Antarctic area and the great Southern Ocean-basinis would involve , if the doctrine of a general Oceanic circulation be admitted , ( l ) a mulch more considerable initerchange of waters between the Atlantic and the Equatorial areas than is possible in the Northern hemisphere : and ( 2 ) a reduction in the tem* See ' Lightning ' Report , p. 186 .
t ' Lightningg ' Report , p. 187 , note:-The lowest Temperature actuallly observed in these Soundin-gs , with Thermometers protected on Admiral Fitzroy 's plan , was 36-l .
The temperature of 33-1 given in the ' Lightning ' Report as existing below 1800 fathoms , proves to have been only an estizate formed by Captain Shortland , under the idea that the rate of reduction observed at smaller depths would continue uniform to the bottom , which the Serial soundings of the ' Porcupine ' prove to be by no means the case .
perature of the deepest parts of the great Southern Ocean even below that of the North-Atlantic Sea-bed .
Now so far as our present knowledge extends , both these inferences are in accordance with fact ; for it is well known to Navigators that in all the Southern Oceans there is a perceptible " set " of warm surface , water towards the Antarctic Pole ( this " , set " being so decided in one part of the Southern Indian Ocean as to be compared by Capt. Maury to the Gulf-stream of the North Atlantic ) ; and it is obvious that such a constant flow of surface-water cannot be maintained without an equivalent flow of deeper water in the opposite direction .
Of the great depression of temperature which would be produced by such an unrestricted spread of frigid water over the deeper parts of the Southern Oceanic basins , irndications are afforded by the deep Temperature-soundings taken in Sir James C. Ross 's Antarctic Expedition , the Voyage of the ' Venus , ' &amp;c. ; for when , as in several of these observations , the inadicated Temperature was from 390 to 36 at depths greater tharn 1500 fathoms , the probable correction for pressure wouldl reduce these to actual temperatures of from 32 ' to 290 , or even lower .
122 .
It would appear from the foregoing considerations that the Temperature of the Deep Ocean will everywhere depend upon the amount of Frigid water which can find its way from the Polar towards the Equatorial area ; and that this will be mainly regujlated by the Distribution of Land and Water , any considerable alteration in which may produce a widespread general chanige of submarinie climate over vast areas , besides modifying , in the maniner already pointed out ( ? ?
105 ) , the distribution of submrarine climate over the parts of the Sea-bed traversed by special Polar or Equatorial Polar currents .
An(d thus great additionial force is added to the remark made in the 'Lightning ' Report ( p. 194 ) that a considerable modification of Submarine Climate might depend upon alterations in the contour of the land , or on the level of the sea-bottom , at a great distance .
For when the South Polar basin was in great part shut in by the Antarctic Continent which ( as appears from Dr. IHooker 's Botanical researches ) must have formerly united South America , New Zealanid , and Australia , the Deep-sea temperature of the Southern Oceanic area genierally must have been higher by some degrees than we have reason to believe it to be at present ; whilst , on the other hanid , if there ever was a time when the present North Pacific Area had a more free communication with the Arctic Basin than the present narrow and shallow channiel of Behring 's Straits affords , its Deep-sea temperature must have been lower by some degrees than , it is likely to be founid at present .
123 .
It is obvious that the distribution of Submarine Climate must exert a most important influence on the distribution of Animal Life ; and of such influence the Deep-sea Dredgings carried on in this Expedition through a wide Geographical range have afforded most conivinicino evidence ; as will be fully set forth in the Secolnd Part of this Report .
For many species of Mollusca , Crustacea , and Echinodermata previously supposed to to be purely Arctic have been found to range southwards in deep water as far as those dredgings extended-namely , to the northern extrenmity of the Bay of Biscay ; and the considerations already urged render it highly probable that an extension of the same mode of exploration would bring them up from the abysses of even Intertropical seas , over which a similar Climate prevails , and that an actual colntinuity may thus be found to exist between the Arctic and the Antarctic Faunce .
This idea was well put forth some years since by our excellent friend Prof. Love'n of Stockholm , in his discussion of the results of the deep-sea Dredgings executed by the Swedish Spitzbergein Expedition of 1861 , under Torell .
" Considering , " he says , " the power of endurance in these lower marine animals , and recollecting the facts that properly Arctic species which live also on the coast of Europe , are generally found there at greater depths than in their proper home , and that certain Antarctic species very closely agree with Arctic species , the idea occurs that , while in our own seas and those of warm climates , the surface , the coast-line , and the lesser depths are peopled with a rich and varied Fauna , there exists in the great Atlantic depression , perhaps in all the abysses of our globe , and continued from Pole to Pole , a Fauina of the same general character , thriving under severe conditions , and approaching , the surface where none but such exist , in the coldest seas .
" It had , moreover , been long previouisly suggested by Sir James C. IRoss , on the basis of observations made during his Antarctic voyage ; for these observations had led him to believe that water of similar temnperatuire to that of the Arctic and Antarctic seas exists in the depths of the Equatorial Ocean , and that Arctic species may thus find their way to the Antarctic area , and vice versed .-The " similar temperature " believed by Sir James Ross to have had this general prevalence seems to have been 390 ; whereas our observations distinctly prove that a temperature even below 30 may be conveyed by Polar streams far into the Temperate zone , and that the general temperature of the deepest part of the North-Atlantic sea-bed has more of a Polar character than he supposed .
Further , as there must have beeni deep seas at all Geological epochs , and as the Physical forces which maintain the Oceanic circulation must have been in operation throughout , though modified in their local action by the particular distribution of land and water at each period , it is obvious that the presence of Arctic types of animal life in any Marine formation can no longer be accepted as furnishing evidence per se of the general exteinsion of Glacial action into Temperate or Tropical regions .
124 .
Whilst the question of D)eep-Sea Temperature is one of the greatest Biological interest , its determination is of even greater importance to the Geologist , as affecting his interpretation of the phenomena on which his belief in a former general prevalence of a Glacial climate is founded .
For if a Glacial temperatuire should be found now to prevail , and types of Animal life conformable thereto should prove to be diffused , over the deeper portion of the existing sea-bed in all parts of the Globe , it is obvious that the same may have been the case at any Geological epoch ; for there must have been deep seas in all periods , and the Physical forces which maintain the Oceanic circulation at the present time must have been always in operation , though modified in their local action by the distribution of land and water existing at any particular date .
And as the elevation of the present deep sea-bed of even the intertropical Oceanic area would ( if we have correctly interpreted the results of our own and others ' observations ) offer to the study of the Geologist of the fuiture a deposit characterized by the presence of Polar types , so must the Geologist of the present hesitate in regarding the occurrence of Boreal types in any marine deposit as adequate evidence per se of the general extension of Glacial action into Temperate or Tropical regions .
At any rate , it may be considered as having been now placed beyond reasonable doubt that a Glacial Submarine Climate may prevail over any Area , without having any relation whatever to the Terrestrial Clinmate of that Area * .
125 .
Composition of Seaffater.-A considerable number of samples of Sea-water were collected in different localities and at different depths , for the purpose of being submitted , on our return home , to the comtplete analysis which Dr. Frankland had been kind enough to unidertake .
As the quantities collected in the first two cruises , however .
proved insufficient for his special purpose the determination of the quiantity of Organic matter , _ a set of Winchester quart bottles was taken out in the Third cruise ; and these were filled from surfaceand from bottom-waters in four localities , two in the Warm and two in the Cold area .
The important results of Dr. Frankland 's analyses of these samples are given in Appendix II .
The differences in Specffic Gravity , and in the proportion of the ordinary Saline constituents ( as indicated by that of the chlorine ) are scarcely as great as might have been anticipated ; but in so far as they extend , they are generally conformable to the doctrine of Forchammer , that Polar water is more dilute than Equatorial .
In particular it may be noted that the lowest Specific Gravity ( 1V0262 ) , which coincided with a still lower proportioni in the total of Solid matter , presented itself in the waters taken from the Arctic streain nearest its presumed source ( ? ?
70 ) .
But the most novel and importanit feature in these analyses is the large quantity of Organic Matter indicated by them as universally present in the water of the open Ocean at great distances from land and at all depths .
This has a direct bearing on a question of the greatest Biological interest , -What is the source of N'utriment for the vast mass of Animal life covering the abyssal Sea-bed ? ?
126 .
That Animals have no power of themselves generating the Organic Compounds which serve as the materials of their bodies-and that the production of these materials from the carbonic acid , water , and ammonia of the Inorganic world , under the influence of Light , is the special attribute of Vegetation-is a doctrine so generally accepted , that to call it in question would be esteemed a Physiological heresy .
There is no difficulty in accounting for the alimentation of the higher Animal types , with such an unlimited supply of food as is afforded by the Globigerina and the Sponges in the midst of which they live , and on which many of them are known to feed .
Given the Protozoa , everything else is ekplicable .
But the question returns , -On what do these Protozoa live ? ?
127 .
The hypothesis has beeni advalnced that the food of the abyssal Protozoa is derived from Diatoms and other forms of minute Plants , which , ordinarily living at or near the surface , may , by subsiding to the depths , carry down to the animals of the sea-bed the supplies they require .
Our examination of the surface-waters , however , has afforded no evidence of the existence of such Microphytic vegetation in quantity at all sufficient to supply the vast demand ; and the most careful search in the Globigerinamuid has failed to bring to light more than a very small number of specimens of these Siliceous envelopes of Diatoms , which would most assuredly have revealed themselves in abundance bad these Protophytes served as a principal component of the food of the Protozoa that have their dwellingplace on the sea-bed.-Another hypothesis has been suggested , that these Pr otozoa , which are so near the border of the Vegetable kingdom , may be able , like Plants , to generate Organic Compounds for themselves , -manufacturing their own food , so to speak , from Inorganic materials .
But it is scarcely conceivable that they could do this without the agency of Light ; and , as it is obviously the want of that agency which excludes the possibility of Vegetation in the abysses of the ocean , the same deficiency would prevent Animals from carrying on the like process .
128 .
A possible solutioni of this difficulty , first offered by Professor Wyville Thomsoln in a Lecture delivered in the spring of 1869 , has received so remarkable a confirmation from the researches made in the ' Porcupine ' expedition , that it may now be put forth with considerable confidence .
It is , he remarked , the distinctive character of the Protozoa , that " ; they have no special organs of nutrition , but that they absorb water through the whole surface of their jelly-like bodies .
Miost of these animals secrete exquisitely formed skeletons , sometiynes of Lime , sometimes of Silica .
There is no doubt that they extract both of these substances from the Sea-water , although Silica often exists there in quantity so small as to elude detection by chemical tests .
All Sea-water contains a certain amount of Organic matter in solution .
Its sources are obvious .
All rivers contain a large quanitity ; every shore is surrounided by a fringe , which averages about a mile in width , of olive and red Seaweeds ; in the middle of .
the Atlantic there is a marine meadow , the Sargasso Sea , extending over 3,000,000 of square miles ; the sea is full of Animals which are constantly dying and decaying ; and the water of the Gulf-stream especially courses round coasts where the supply of organic matter is enormous .
It is , therefore , quite intelligible that a world of animals should live in these dark abysses : but it is a necessary condition that they should chiefly belong to a class capable of being supported by absorption through the surface of matter in solution , developing but little heat , and incurring a very small amount of waste by any manifestation of vital activity .
According to this view , it seems highly probable that at all periods of the earth 's history some form of the Protozoa ( Rhizopods , Sponges , or both ) predominated over all other forms of animal life in the depths of the Sea , whether spreading , compact , and reef-like , as in the Lauirentian and Palwozoic Eozoon , or in the form of myriads of separate organisms , as in the Glob6ierina .
, and Ventriculites of the Chalk " X 129 .
During each Cruise of the 'Porcupine , ' samples of Sea-water obtained from various depths , as well as from the surface , at stations far remnoved fromland , were siibmitted to the Permanganate test after the method of Prof. W. A. Miller , with ana additioni suggested by Dr. Angus Smith for the purpose of distinguishing the Organic natter in a 8tate of decomposition from that which is only decomposable ; with the result of showing the uniiform presence of any apprleciable quantity of matter of the latter kind , which , not having passeed itnto a state of decomposition , may be assimilable as food by auimals , -being , in fact , Protoplasnmi in a state of extreme dilution .
-Until , therefore , aiiy other more probable hypothesis shall have beenproposed , the sustenance of An-imal life on the ocean-bottom , at any depth may be fairly account.ed for on the suppositioni of Prof. Wyville Thomson , that the Protozoic p)ortion of that Faunia is nourished by direct absorption from the dilute Protoplasni cliffused through the whiole n-ass of Oceaniic waters , just as it draws from the same mass the Miineral ingredients of the skeletons it forms .
This diffused Protoplasm , however , muiist be continiually undergoinrg decomposition , and maust be as continually renewed ; and the source of that renewal mu.st lie in the urface l-cof Plants and Animals , by which ( as pointed otut by Prof. Wyville Tihomson ) fresh supplies , of Orgaiiic matter must be continually impart ed to the Oceanic waters , being carried down even to their greatest depths by that liquid difusion which was so admnirably investigated by the late Professor Graham .
130 .
The analysis of the Gases contained in Sea-water , collected not only at the surface but from various depths benieath it , was systematically carried on during the whole of the Expedition .
The results cannot be considered as entirely satisfactory ; since it is by no meanis certain that the relative proportions of the gases obtainied by boiling water takeIn up from great depths may not have been affected by the liberation of a portion of these gases when the superineur bent pressure was removed .
But they will be fouind extremely suggestive , and seein to have a tolerably definite relation to the Respi)iration of the Abyssal Fauna .
Referring to Appendix I. for a fuller statement of details , we may here call attention to their aeneral * " ; The Depths of the Sea , " a Lecture delivered iiu the , theatre of the Royal Doiblil $ociety , April 10 , 1869 .
bearing.-The general average of thirty analyses of sm:face-water gives the following as the percentage proportions:-25 1 Oxygen , 54'2 Nitrogen , 20 ' Carbonic Acid .
This proportion , however , was subject to great variations , as will be presently shown .
As a general rule , the proportion of Oxygen was found to diminish , and that of Carbonic Acid to increase , with the depth , the results of anialyses of intermediate waters giving a percentage of 22 0 Oxygen , 52 8 Nitrogen , and 26'2 Carbonic Acid ; whilst the results of analyses of hottorn-waters gave 19'5 Oxygen , 52 6 Nitrogen , and 27'9 Carbonic Acid .
But 6ottom-water at a comparatively small depth often contained as much Carbonic Acid and as little Oxygen as intermediate water at much greater depths ; and the proportion of Carbonic Acid to Oxygen in 6ottom-water was found to bear a much closer relation to the abundance of Animal life ( especially of the more elevated types ) , as shown by the Dredge , than to its depth .
This was very strikingly shown in an instance in which analyses were made of the gases contaiined in samples of water collected at every 50 fathoms , from 400 fathoms to the bottom at 862 fathoms , the percentage results being as follows : 750 fath .
800 fath .
Bottom , 862 fath .
Oxygen ... ... 188 17-8 17'2 Nitrogen ... ... . .
49'3 48'5 34'5 Carbonic Acid ... .
31'9 33'7 48*3 The extraordiniarily augmented percentage of Carbonic Acid in the stratum of water here immediately overlying the Sea-bed was accompanied by a great abundance of Animal life .
On the other hand , the lowest percentage of Carbonic Acid found in bottom-water ( viz. 7'9 ) was accompanied by a " very bad haul .
" In several cases in which the depths were nearly the same , the analyst ventured a predictioni as to the abundance , or otherwise , of Anlimal life , from the proportion of Carboniic Acid in the bottomwater ; and his predictionl proved in every instance correct .
1 31 .
It would appear probable , therefore , that the increase in the proportion of Carbonic Acid , and the diminution in that of the Oxygen , in the abyssal waters of the Ocean , is due to the Respiratory process ; which is no less a necessary condition of the existence of Animial life on the sea-bed than is the presenice of food-material for its sustenlance .
And it is further obvious that the continued conisumption of Oxygen and liberation of Carbonic Acid would soon render the stratum of water immediately above the bottom completely irrespirable ( in the absence of any antagonistic process of Vegetation ) were it not for the upward diffusion of the Carbonic Acid through the intermediate waters to the surface , and the downward diffusiol of Oxygenffrom the surface to the depths below .
A continlual interchange will take place at the surface between the gases of the Sea-water and those of the Atmosphere ; and thus the Respiration of the Abyssal Fauna is provided for by a process of diffusion , which may have to operate through three miles or more of intervening water .
2o 132 .
The varying proportions of Carbonlic Acid and Oxygen in the surface-waters are doubtless to be accounted for in part by the differences in the amount and character of the Animal life existing beneath ; but a comparison of the results of the analyses made during the agitation of the surface by wind , with those made in calm weather , showed so decided a reduction in the proportioni of Carbonic Acid , with an inierease in that of Oxygen , under the former condition , as almost unequiivocally to indicate that superficial disturbanice of the sea by Atmospheric movement is absolutely necessary for its purification from the noxious effects of Animal decomposition .
Of this view a most unexpected and remarkable confirmation has been afforded by the following circumstance : In one of the analyses of Surface-water made during the Second cruise , the percentage of Carbonic Acid fell as low as 3 3 , while that of Oxygen rose as hiigh as 371 ; and in a like anialysis made during the Third cruise , the percenitage of Carbonic Acid was 5 6 , while that of Oxygen was 45 3 .
As the results of every other analysis of Surface-water were in marked contrast to these , it became a question whether they should not be thrown out as erroneous ; until it was recollected that whilst the samples of surface-water had been generally taken up from the how of the vessel , they had been drawn , in these two instances , from abaft the paddles , and had thuis been subjected to such a violent agitation in contact with the Atmosphere as would preeminently favour their thorough aeration.-Eence , then , it may be affirmed that every disturbance of the Ocean-surface by Atmospheric movement , from the gentlest ripple to the most tremendous storm-wave , contributes , in proportion to its amount , to the maintenance of Animal life in its Abyssal depths ; doing , in fact , for the aeration of the fluids of their inhabitants just what is done by the heaving and falling of the walls of our own chest for the aeration of the blood which courses through our lungs .
A perpetual calm would be as fatal to their continued existence as the forcible stoppage of all Respiratory movement would be to our own ; and thus universal stagnation would become universal death .
APPENDIX .
J.-Summary of the Results of the Exvamination of Sampples of Sea-water talcen at the Sucrface and at Various Depths .
By WM .
LANT CARPENTE .
R , B.A. , B.SC .
Su ?
:face-waters.-Care was takien to obtain these samples as pure as possible , and free from any contamination caused by matters derived from the vessel , by dipping them up in clean vessels at a few inches below the surface at or near the bow of the ship .
In two inistances , however , the samples were taken from abaft the paddles .
&gt; Eaters tahen at depths below the su:faee.-It was found desirable to coat the brass Water-Bottles ( ? ?
19 ) interlnally with sealing-wax varnish , owing to the corrosive action of the sea-water .
The apparatus was then found to work perfectly satisfactorily in .
all cases in which there was sufficient weight on the Sounding-line to which they were attached to keep the bottles perpendicular , or nearly so .
When , from the smallness of the attached weight , or the roughness of the sea , the sounding-line was at an acute angle with the general level of the sea-surface while it was being drawn up , the results of the examination of water thus obtained rendered it highly probable that some water at or near the surface had found its way into the bottle , and that its contents were not to be relied on as coming from the lowest depths .
When Bottom-water was obtained from depths beyond 500 fathoms , it was almost invariably charged with a quantity of very fine mud in suspension , rendering it quite turbid .
Many hours ' standing was niecessary for the deposit of this ; but it was readily removed by filtration .
In no instance was there any evidence of water from great depths being much more highly charged with dissolved gases thafn Surface-waters ; a considerable elevation of temperature being in all cases niecessary for the evoltution of any dissolved gas .
Mode of Examining Sa2pl-Ves.-The samples of water thus taken were examined with as little delay as possible , with a view to determine : ( l ) The Specific Gravity of the water .
( 2 ) The total quantity of dissolved Gases contained in them , and the relative proportions of Oxygen , Nitrogen , and Carbonic Acid .
( 3 ) The quianitity of Oxygen necessary to oxidize the Organic matter contained in the water ; distiniguishing between Ca , the decomposed organic matter , and 6 , the easily decomposable organic matter .
( 1 ) The Specific-Gravity determiniations were made at a temperature as near 60 ?
Fahr. as possible , with delicate glass Hydrometers , so graduated that the Specific gravity could be read off directly to the fourth decimal place with ease .
( 2 ) The apparatus for the analysis of the Gases dissolved in the seawater was essentially that described by Prof. Miller in the seconid volume of his 'Elements of Chemistry .
' It was found necessary to make several modifications in it , to adapt it to the mnotion of the vessel .
These consisted chiefly in suspending much of it from the cabin-ceiling , instead of supporting it from beneatl , and in relndering all the parts less rigid by a free use of caoutchouc tubing , &amp; $c , the utmost care being taken to keep all joints tight .
It was found possible to make correct analyses , even whenl the vessel was rolling sufficiently to upset chairs anlcl cabin-furniture .
The nethod of Analysis may be thus summnarized:-From 700 to 800 cubic centimetres of the sample to be examinied were boiled for aboiut 30 minutes , in such a way that the steamu and mYixed gases evolved were collected o ver mercury in a small graduated Bansen 's Gas-holder , all access of air being carefully guarded againist .
The mixed gases were then tranlsferred to two graduated tubes in a mereutrial trough , where the Carbonic Acid was first absorbed by a strong solutionl of caustic potash ; and subsequiently the Oxygen was absorbed by the addition of pyrogallic acid , the remaining gas being assumed to be Nitrogen .
The results of the anialyses were always colrected to the standard Ternperature of 00 Ceent .
, and to 760 millimetres Barometric pressure , for comparisoni among themselves and with others .
In nearly every case the duplicate analvses from the same gaseous mixture agreed closely , if they wele not identical .
( 3 ) The examination of the Sea-watr for Organic matter was made according to the method detailed by Prof. Miller in the Journal of the Chemical Society for Any 1865 , with an addition suggested by Dr. Angus Smith .
Each samnple of water was divided into two ; to one of these a little free acid was added , and to both an excess of a standard solution of Permanganate of potash .
At the end of three hours the reaction was stopped by the addition of Iodide of potassium and Starch , and the excess of Permang-anate estimated by a standard solution of Hlyposulphite of soda .
The portion to which free acid was adclded gave the Oxygen required to oxidize the decomposed and easily decomposable organic matter ; the second portion1 gave the oxygen requiired by the decomposed organic m'natter alone , which was usually from about one-half to one-third of the whole .
The following is a Summary of the total nuLmboer of observations , aralyses , &amp;c. made during the Three Cruises respectively First Seconid ThirdTota Cruise .
Cruise .
Cruise .
Specific-Gravity determuinations .
7I 7 zd , 5 Duplicate Gas-analyses ... ... .
45 3 z ' 89 Organiic-matter tests ... . .
137 7 z6 32 195 pecife Gravity.-The Specific Gravity of Surface-water was found to diminish slightly as land was approached ; but the average of 32 observations upon water at a sufficient distanlce from land to be unaffected by local disturbances was 1,02779 , the iaxiinum being 1P0284 and the miniinum ... 1 *0270 .
It was almost aiways noticed that , during a high wind , the specific gravity of surface-water was above the average .
The average of 30 observations upon the Specific Gravity of Intermediate water was 1P0275 , the maximurm being ... ... ... ..10281 , and the minimunm ... P ... ... .
10272 .
The Specific Gravity of Bottom-waters at depths varying from 77 to 2090 fathoms , deduced from an average of 43 observations , was 10277 , the maximum being .
, ee. .
1P0283 , and the minimum ... ... ... .1. .
P0267 .
It will be noticed that the average Specific Gravity of Bottom-water is slightly less than that of Surface-water .
In several instances the Specific Gravities of Surfaceand of Bottom-waters taken at the same place having been compared , that of the Bottom-water was found to be appreciably less than that of the Surface-water .
Thus At 1425 fathoms depth ( Station 17 ) it was .
10269 Surfice at the same .
10280 And At 664 fathoms depth ( Station 26 6 ) it was 1-0272 Surface at the same .
e 10280 According , however , to a Series of observations made at the same spot ( Station 42 ) at intervals of 50 fathoms , from 50 to 800 , the Specific Gravity increased with the depth from 1 0272 at 50 fathoms to 1P0277 at 800 fathoms* .
Several series of Spc-Gr .
observations were made near the mouths of rivers and streams ; showing the gradual mixture of fresh and salt water , and the floatinrof lighter portions above the denser sea-water , as well as the reverse effect produced by the influence of tidal cnrrents .
Thus outside 3Belfast Lough a rapid stream of water of Sp. Gr .
1 0270 was found above water which at a depth of " 73 fathoms had a Sp. Gr .
of 1P0265 .
Gases of Sea-water.-The aualyses of the Gaseous constituents of seawater may be divided into t\wto groups : ( 1 ) Analyses of Surface-waters .
( 2 ) Analyses of waters below the surface ; and these last may be again subdivided into ( a ) Intermediate , and ( b ) Bottom-waters .
The total quantity of dissolved gases in sea-water , whether at the suirface or below it , was found to average about 28 volumes in 100 volumes of water .
M My own experience of the difficulty of making accurate Hydrometric determinations when the ship was rolling prevents me from attaching much value to the above results .
W. B. C. The average of 30 analyses of Surface-waters made during the Expedition gave the following , proportions : Percentage .
Propor tion .
Oxygen.25 046 100 Nitrogen. .
e 54211 216 Carbonic acid ... ... 20(743 80 100-000 These were thus distributed over the three Cruises , and the mraxima and minima of each constituenit are thus shown .
I Average per .
ra Oxen Nitrogen Carbonic prpoton .
gn .
Ntrgn nx centage .
proeratio Ma .
M.Mx acid K CarMax .
Alin .
Max. Alin .
Max. Mmir .
ONtro .
g. lbonic 0 .
0N .
CO2 per per per per per per gen .
ge .
acid .
cent. cent. cent , cenit .
ce_It._ cent. First Cruise.19 24-47 295 22-58 100 216 92 28-78 19-60 62-95 46 35132-0 12-72 Second Cruise .
2 31-33 54-85 13-82 108 175 44 37-10 2556 59063 50 07 24 37 3-27 T2lird Cruise ... ... ... ... 9 21-861 7 18'41 100 228 71 4528 13 98 68 67 41'42 27-14 5a64 It is interesting to remark that Surface-water contains a greater quantity of Oxygen and a less qulantity of Carbonic acid duiring the prevalence of strong wind .
The following is anl average of 5 analyses made under such conditions Per cent. Proportion .
General average .
SOxygeri .
29 10 100 25 046 100 5 Nitrogen.52 87 182.54211 216 Carbonic acid. .
1803 62 .
207 43 83 In the two cases which presented the remarkable small minima of Carbonic acid with a great excess of Oxygen , the water had been accidentally taken from imisediately abaft the paddles , where it had been subject to violent agitation in contact with air .
Of water at various depths beneath the surface , 59 analyses were made .
Those in the First cruise , 26 in nnmber , were chiefly from Bottomwater at depths from 25 to 1476 fathoms .
In the Second cruise the 21 analyses chiefly belonged to two Seiies , - the first of sainples taken at intervals of 250 fathoms , from 2090 to 250 fathoms , inclusive ; and the second of samples taken at intervals of 50 fathoms from 862 to 400 fathoms inclusive .
In the Third cruise 12 analyses were made , -8 of Bottom-water , of which one-half were in the " cold area , " and 4 at Intermediate depths .
The general average of the 59 analyses of water taken below the surface gives : Oxygen.20..6 10 0 Nitrogenl ... 052 240 254 Carbonic acid. .
27 192 132 100000 It will be seen from this that while the quantity of Nitrogen is only 1.97 per cent. less than in suirface-water , the quantity of Oxygen is diminished by 4 48 per cent. , and the quantity of Carbonic acid increased by 6A45 per cent. This difference is greater if Bottom-waters only are compared with Surface-waters .
30 Surface .
24 Initermediate .
35 Bottom .
Per cent. Proportioni .
IPer cent. Proportion .
Per cent. Proportion .
Oxygen ... 2 505 0IC 22-03 100 19'53 ICO Nitrogen .
54'20 21-6 5I832 235 Sz-6o 2,6I Carbonic acid .
7 .
4 83 2z6 ' i5I 27-87 14 3 100000 IOO'CO _ooo The two Series of analyses , before referred to , performeed duriugttbe Second cruise upon Intermediate waters at successive depths over the same spot both show a regular increase of the Carbonic acid , and diminution of theOxygen , as the depth inicreases , the percelitage of Nitrogen varying but slightly .
These gelneral results appear to show that the Oxygeen diminishes and the Carbonic acid increases with the depth until the bottom is reached ; but that at the bottom , whatever the depth from the surface , the proportions of Carbonic acid and of Oxygen do not conform to this law , Bottomwater at a comparatively small depth often containing as much carbonic acid and as little oxygen as Intermediate water at a greater depth .
No instance occurred during the first two Criuises in which ( where samples of surface and intermiediate or bottonm-waters were taken at the same place ) the quantity of Carbolnic acid was less and of Oxygen greater than at the surface ; the only exception occurred in the Third cruise , at a place where , it is believed , currents of water were meeting .
It was frequentlv nioticed that a large percentage of Carbonic acid in Bottom-water was accompanied by an abunidance of Animal life , as shown by the dredge ; and that where the dredge-results were barren , the quantity of Carbonic acid was much smaller .
The greatest percenitage of Carbonic acid ever found was accompanied by anl abunidance of life ; while at a short distance ( 62 fathoms ) above the bottom , the proportion of Carbonic acid was conformable to the law of variation with depth before referred to : Bottom , 862 fLiis .
800 fins .
750 fnis .
Oxygen ... .
17-22 17 79 18 76 Nitrogen ... ... . .
3450 48 46 49 32 Carbonic acid ... 48 28 33'75 31*92 100 00 100-00 100 00 The lowest percentage of Carbonic acid ( 7 93 ) ever found in Bottomwater , occurring at a depth of 362 fathoms , was accompanied by a " very bad haul .
" In crossing the wide channel from the N.W. of Irelanid towards Rockall , where the water for some distancee is over 1 000 fathoms depth , so that the other circumstanices varied very little , if at all , the proportion of Carbonic acid appeared to vary with the dredge-results ; so that the analyst ventured to predict whether the collection would be good or not before the dredge came to the surface-drawing his inference from the results of his analyses of the gases of the Bottom-water .
In each case his prediction was justified by the result .
Stationl 117 .
StatioIn 19 .
Stationi 20 .
Stationl 21 .
1425 fns .
1360 fins .
1443 fins .
1476 fins .
Oxygen 16 14 17 92 2l*34 16 68 Nitrogen.48178 4-5 88 47 51 43 46 Carbonic acid 35 07 3620 31 15 39-86 100l00 100 00 1080.0 100-00 Good haul .
Good haul .
Bad haul .
Good haul .
In the analyses made of the water in the Cold Area , and generally in .
the Third cruise , there appears , as mi , ght be expected from the various currents &amp;c. , a greater variation in the results than in the other series .
In the Botton and Intermediate waters the Nitrogeen appears to be rather in excess of the average , and the Carbonic acid has a large ranige of variation-from 7 58 per cent. at Stationi 47 ( 540 fathoms , Temp. 430.8 ) to 45.79 per cent. at Station 52 ( 384 fathoms , 300.6 Fahr. ) .
The average of the Surface-waters is much the same as in the other parts of the cruise .
It may be worth notice that in localities wlthere the greatest depth did not exceed 15O fathoms , the results of the gas-anialysis of Bottom and Surface-water were frequently so uearly the same , whatever the amount of Animal life on the bottom , as to lead to the supposition that there might be at that limit a sufficienlt circulation , either of the particles of the water itself or of the gases dissolved in it , to keep the gaseous constitution alike throughout .
The coincidence of this depth with the extreme depth at which Fish are usually found to exist in these seas is suggestive .
Orycaiic matter.-With a view to test the inethod of analysis by Pernat canate of potash , two or three series of analyses were made where fresh and salt water nixed together , as ih IKillibegs larbour , Donegal Bay , &amp;c. and the results in all cases justified the expectation formed , that the amount of permanganate was an index of the comparative purity of the water , both as regards the " decomposed " and the " c decomposable " organic mYlatter .
Disregarding the above series , a total of 134 experiments were made upon Sea-water , which may be thus divided:56 upon Surface-water , 18 I9 Intermediate water , 60 , , Bottom-water , 134 during the First and Third crLuises .
The results are given in the quantity of Oxygen in fractionis of a grarnme required to oxidize the Organic matter in a litre of water .
Average of 56 anialyses of Surface-water No. 28 .
Decomposed ... ... 000025 Total 0'00095 .
28 .
Decomposable ... .
0 00070 Maximurm .
Minimrlumii .
Decomiposed ... ... 0 00094 0 00000 4 cases .
Decomposable ... .
0 00100 0 00000 1 case .
Total ... ... 0 00194 0 00000 1 case .
Average of 18 analvses of Intermediate water .
No. 9 .
Decomposed ... . .
0 00005 Total 0'00039 .
9 .
Decomposable ... .
0 000341 In 7 out of 9 there was no " decomposed " Organic matter ; and in 3 out of 9 there was no Organic matter at all , as inidicated by this test .
In this series the analyses of the observations made during the Second cruise are not included , as the calculations have beeni differently made .
Average of 60 analyses of Bottomn-water No. 26 .
Deconmposed. .
0(00047 Total 0-0088 .
34 .
Decomposable 0000041 o Maximum .
Minimumn , Decomposed. .
000105 0.00000 2 cases .
Decomposable 0 00148 0 00000 1 case .
Total .
0-00253 0(0(000 1 case .
These figures appear to show ( 1 ) that Intermediate waters are more free from Organic contamination than either Surfaceor Bottom-waters , as might be expected from the comparative absence of animal life in these waters ; ( 2 ) that the total absence of Organic matter is least frequent in Bottom-waters , and most frequent in Intermediate waters , Surface-waters occupying a middle place in this respect ; and ( 3 ) that there is not much difference betweenl Bottomand Surface-waters , either in the total quantity of Organic contamination or in the relative proportions of the " decomposed " and " easily decomposable " organic matter .
It may be worth notice that when the Bottom-water from great depths was muddy , tests made before and after filtration showed that some of the Organic matter was remroved by this operationi .
IT.-Results of the Analysis of Eight Samples of SeaWater collected during the Third Crtise of the 'Por cupinze .
' By Dr. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. Royal College of Chemistry .
November 15th , 1869 .
DEAR Dr. CARPENTER , -Herewith I enclose results of analyses of the samples of sea-water collected during your recent cruise in the ' Porcupine .
' I shall not attempt to draw any general concluisions from these results ; your own intimate knowledge of the cireumstances under which the differenit samples were collected will enable you to do this much better than I. There is , however , one point which is highly remarkable and to which I would draw your attention ; it is the large amount of very highly nitrogenized Organic matter contained in most of the samples , as shown by the determinations of organic Carbon and organiic Nitrogen , and the proportion of organic Carbon to organic Nitrogen .
For the purposes of comparison , I have appended the results of analyses of Thames-water and of the water of Loch Katrine , the former representing probably about a fair average of the proportion of organic nitrogen reaching the sea in the rivers of this country , but being presumably considerably greater than that contributed by rivers in other parts of the world .
If this be so , it follows either that soluble nitrogenous organic matter is being generated from inorganic materials in the sea , or that this matter is undergoing concentration by the evaporation of the ocean , the rivers and streams continually furnishing additional quantities whilst the water evaporated takes none away .
The amounts of Carbonate of Lime given in the Table are obtainied by adding the number 3 ( representing the solubility of carbonate of lime in pure water ) to the temporary hardness which denotes the carbonate of lime thrown down on boiling .
As the determination of temporary hardness in water containing so much saline matter is not very accurate , the numbers in the columns headed " temporary hardness " and c ; carbonate of lime " must only be regarded as rough approximations to the truth ; moreover , a small proportion of carbonate of magnesia is mixed with the carbonate of lime and estimated with it .
In all their peculiar features these analytical results agree with those which I have previously obtainied from numerous samples of sea-water collected by myself off Worthing and Hastings .
Yours very truly , E. FRANKLAND .
III.-Notes on Specimens of the Bottomn collecteed during the First Cruise of the ' Porcupiine ' in 1869 .
By DAVID FORBEs , F.IR .
S. Atlantic Mud contained in a small bottle marked " Soundings N No. 20 , 1443 fathoms .
" A complete analysis of this samiiple shows its Chemical Composition to be as follows : Carbonate of lime.50 12 Alumina * ( " soluble in acids " ) .
133 Sesquioxide of iron ( " soluble in acids"). .
217 Silica ( in a soluble condition ) .
504 Fine insoluble gritty sand ( rock debris ) 26-77 Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 90 Organiic matter.4 19 Chloride of sodiuin and other soluble salts .
748 100 00 If we compare the chemical composition as above with that of ordinary Chalk , which consists all but entirely of carbonate of lime , and seldom contains more than from 2 to 4 per cent. of foreign matter ( clay , silica , &amp;c. ) , it will be seen that it differs chiefly in containing so very large an amount of rock-matter in a fine state of division .
If we subtract the water , organic matter , and marirne salts , which wotuld probably in greatest part be removed before such mud could in process of ages be converted into solid rock , eveni then the amount of carbonate of lime or pure chalk would not be more than at highest some 60 pei cent. of the mass .
As such deposits must naturally be expected to vary greatly in mechanical -character and chemical comiposition , it would be premature to generalize as to the actual nature of the deposits now in course of formationi in the depths of the Atlantic , before a careful examination had been made of a series of such specimens -from different localities .
The soluble silica is principally from siliceous organisms .
[ Mr. Hunter 's analysis of the Atlantic Mcud brought up from the 2435 fathoms ' dredging , will be found in p. 428 ] .
As regards the probable origin of the pebbles and gravel found in the various dredgings , it will be at once seen , from the description , that they consist principally of fragments of volcanic rocks and crvstalline schists .
The former of these have in all probability come from Iceland or Jan Mayen ; whilst the latter , associated as they are with small fragments of grey and somewhat altered calcareous rock , would appear to have proceeded from the nLorth-west coast of Ireland , where the rocks are quite idenitical in mineral character .
The lnorth of Scotland and its islands also contain similar rocks ; but without being at all positive on this head , I am W Witht phosphorlie , acid , rather inclined to the opinion that they have been derived from Ireland , andi not necessarily connected with any glacial phenomena , believing that their presence may be accounted for by the ordinary action of marine currents .
" Pebbles from 1215 fathoms ( Station 28 ) .
" The stones were all subangular , the edges being all more or less worn or altogether rounded off .
The specimens were 38 in number , and Upon examination were found to colnsist of:5 Hornblende schist ; the large.st of these ( which also was the largest in size of the entire series ) weighed 421 gr. ( 8 of an ounce ) , was extremely compact , and was composed of black hornblende , dirtycoloured quartz , and some garniet .
2 Mica schist ; quartz with mica , the largest weighing 20 grains .
5 Grey pretty compact limestone , the largest being 7 grains in weight 2 Fragments ( showing the cleavage faces rounded off on edges ) of ortheclase ( potash felspar ) , evidently derived from granite ; the largest of the two fragments weighed 15 grainis .
5 Quartz , milky in colour or colourless ; the largest of these weighed 903grains , and showed evidencie of having , been derived from the quartz-veins so common in .
clay-slate .
19 Fragments of true volcainic lava , most of which were very light and scoriaceous ( vesicular ) , although some small ones were compact and 38 crystallinie ; and in these the ininerals augite , olivinie , and glassy felspar ( Sanadiine ) could be distinctly recogonized .
Amongst these were fragments of trachytic trachydoleritic , and pyroxenic ( basaltic ) lavas , quite sim-ilar to those of Iceland or Jani Mayen of the present period , from which they had probably beeni derived .
" Gravel from 1443 fathoms ( Stationi 20 ) .
" This sample of gravel consisted of 718 subanigular fragments , in general not above from .
to -grain in weight , with occasionally some of a little greater size ; but the most conisiderable of all ( a fragment of mica schist ) only weighed 3 grainis .
They conisistedl of : 3 Fracgments of ortlioclase felspar .
4 Bituminious or carbonaceous shale ( ?
if not accidental ) .
5 Fragments of shell ( undistinguishable species ) .
4 Granite , containing quartz , orthoclase , and muscovite .
15 Grey compact limestonie .
62 Quartzose mica schist .
317 Hornblende schist ; sometimes contaiIning garniets .
273 Quartzite fragments , with a very few fragments of clear quartz ; the majority of the pieces being of a dirty colour , often cemented together , were evidenitly the debris of quartzite rocks or beds of irndurated sandstone , and not from graniite .
28 Black compact rock co-ntaining augite , most probably a volcanic -basalt .
718 " 'F , orom 1263 fathoms ( Station 22 ) .
" A sinogle rounded pebble , weighing 18 grains , chiefly quartz , with a little of a black mitaeral hornblende or tourmaline , probably from a metamorphic schist .
" Gravel from 1366 fathoms ( Station 1 9a ) .
" Consisted of 51 small subangular pieces of rock , all less than grain in weight , excepting only one fragment ( angular ) of quartz , which weighed 2 grains ; they consisted of ; 19 Fragments of quartz , all of which appeared to have proceeded from the disintegration of crystalline schists , and not from granite .
9 Il-orlnblende schist .
8 Mica schist .
7 Loose , dirty-white tufaceous limestone .
3 Small fragments of augite or tourmaline ( ?
which ) .
1 Fragment of quartz , with tourmaline .
4 Fragments of indistinct and uncertain character .
51 Gravel from 1476 fathoms ( Station 21 ) .
" Six small subangular fragmrients , the largest of which did not exceed two grains in weight ; they were respectively 1 Yellow quartz .
1 Quartzose chlorite schist .
3 Mica schist .
1 Small fragment , apparently of volcanic lava , 6 The specimen from Rockall is not a fragment of any normal rock , but is only a brecciaform aggregate , principally consisting of quartz , felspar , and crystals of greeii horniblende , held together by a siliceous cement .
It has evidently been broken from the projecting edge of a fault or vein fissure ; and althou , h it cannot settle the matter definitely as to what rocks this islet may really be com &lt; posed of , it would inidicatte that it most probably is a mass of hornblelndic guieiss or schLst , and certainly not of true volcanic orioia .
I may mention that it does not at all resemble any of the fraginents found iu the deep-Sea dredgings which I have as yet examinied .

