1876 .
] On Resistance to the Passage of an Electric Current .
451 IX .
" On the Increase in Resistance to the Passage of an Electric Current produced on Wires by Stretching .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. , Demonstrator of Natural Philosophy , King^s College , London .
Communicated by Prof. W. G. Adams , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this inquiry was ( 1 ) To determine the relation between increased resistance to the passage of an electric current and stretching force .
( 2 ) To ascertain how much of the increased resistance in each case is produced by mere increase of length and diminution of section of the stretched wire .
In order to determine the increase of resistance from stretching , the wires were each divided into two parts , about 14 ft. in length ; one end of each part was fastened to a stout hook firmly fixed into a block of wood .
These two hooks were about 8 inches apart , and the block of wood in which they were fixed was securely fastened across two uprights placed resting against a wall of the room , so that the weights , which were attached to the other ends of the wires , might swing clear of the table .
The two parts of the wire were joined at the top , about 2 inches below each hook , by a small piece of copper wire , which was securely soldered on to each part of the wire so as to connect them .
Towards the lower extremities of the two parts , about 5 inches above the points of attachment of the weights , two copper wires of small resistance were soldered so as to connect the vires with a Wheatstone-bridge arrangement .
The increase of resistance was measured by means of a sliding scale of platinum wire divided into millimetre divisions , each equal to .00166 ohm .
As the object was to obtain the temporary , and not the permanent , increase of resistance , which permanent increase was found more or less with all the wires , weights slightly heavier than those intended to be used were first put on and then taken off .
Afterwards the wire was balanced as nearly as possible by German-silver wire without the sliding scale , and then very exactly with the sliding scale , which was connected with one of two resistance-coils of 100 ohms each , which formed the other two sides of the bridge .
The weights used were then carefully put on to the wires , and the increase of resistance measured by means of the sliding scale ; the weights were next taken off again , and the sliding scale used for balancing once more .
If there was any slight difference , as sometimes occurred , between the readings of the sliding scale before the weights were put on and after they were taken off , the mean of the two readings was taken .
In order to secure still greater accuracy , as many as eight or ten trials were frequently made with each particular weight , and the mean of all the trials taken .
In this manner 452 Mr. H. Tomlinson on the Increase in " Resistance [ Dec. 21 , 4 pianoforte steel wires , 1 wire of commercial steel , 3 iron wires , and 4 brass wires were examined with several different weights .
The wires taken were of various sections , and it was found that in each case the increase of resistance was " exactly proportional to the stretching force , " the stretching not being carried beyond the limit of elasticity of each wire .
The resistance of a cubic centimetre of each wire was then determined , also the increase of resistance which a cubic centimetre of each wire would experience when stretched by a force of 1 gramme in the same direction as the passage of the current was calculated from the observations made .
The former values varied from 1574*8 x 10 8 to 1882*4 x 10-8 in the case of steel , from 1200*8 X10 8 to 1291*0 x 10"8 in the case of iron , and from 056*7 X10 8 to 782*2 x 10~8 in the case of brass j the latter values varied from 2982 x 10 17 to 3511 x 10~17 in the case of steel , from 2557 x 10 17 to 2712 x 10 17 in the case of iron , and from 1565 X10 17 to 1843 X 10~17 in the case of brass , the numbers in each case representing so many ohms .
On dividing the latter values by the former , it was found that the increase per unit of resistance for a stretching force of 1 gramme on a cubic centimetre of each wire was nearly the same for wires of the same material , but differed with wires of different materials .
The mean increase per unit of resistance was for the steel wires 1875*5 x 10"12 , for the iron " 2132*2 x 10 " and for the brass " 2244*9 x 10- , a , the greatest departure from the mean value being for the steel less than 2*7 per cent. , for the iron about 3*0 per cent. , and for the brass about 8*5 per cent. The temporary increase of length which a cubic centimetre of each wire would experience on being stretched with a force of 1 gramme was then calculated from observations which had been made in the usual manner with the cathetometer ; this increase of length was found to vary in the case of 3 steel wires from 5082 x 10"13 to 5665 X10"13 , in the case of the iron wires from 4896 x 10"13 to 5938 X 10"13 , and in the case of 1 brass wire was 10120 X 10"13\#187 ; On dividing the increase per unit of resistance for a stretching force 3876 .
] to the Passage of an Electric Current .
453 of 1 gramme on a centimetre of the material by the increase of length produced by the stretching force , so as to obtain the increase per unit of resistance when the wires are stretched 1 centimetre , a mean value of 3-525 was obtained for the steel wires , 3-951 for the iron wires , and 2-203 for the brass wires\#151 ; thus showing that , though the increase per unit of resistance for a given stretching force is greater in brass than in iron or steel , the increase per unit of resistance for a given lengthening of the wire is much greater both in iron and steel than in brass .
The torsional rigidity of the wires was next ascertained by the method of vibrations , several trials being made with different lengths of each wire ; the results for different lengths of the same wire agreed very closely indeed .
Prom the values of torsional rigidity and the increase of length , the diminution of section was calculated for a cubic centimetre of each wire when stretched with a force of 1 gramme , assuming the wire to be isotropic .
Next the increase of resistance which would result from mere lengthening of each wire and diminution of section was determined , and it was ascertained that , on subtracting this latter value from the total observed increase of resistance , there wras a considerable residue in the case of the steel and iron wire , also a residue not so great in the brass .
This residual increase of resistance probably arises from increased space in the line of flow of the current between the particles of the wire produced by the stretching force .
The conclusions to be drawn from the experiments are :\#151 ; 1 .
That the temporary increase per cent , of resistance of a wire when stretched in the same direction as the line of flow of the current is exactly proportional to the stretching force .
2 .
That the increase per cent , of resistance , wThen a cube of each material is stretched by the same weight , is greater in iron than in steel wire , and greater in brass than in iron ; also that the increase is nearly the same for different specimens of the same material .
3 .
That the increase per cent. , when a cube of each material is stretched to the same extent , is mueh greater in iron and steel than in brass .
4 .
That there is a residual increase in each case over and above that which would follow from mere increase of length and diminution of section ; that this residual increase is much greater in iron and steel than in brass , and greater in iron than in steel .

