18 .
" Plan et Esai d'un nouveau Catalogue Sideral , avec un repre ?
sentation graphique , et un loi de simple et reguliere distribution des etoiles autour du Pole , qui pourra fournir plusieurs avantages a TAstronomie pratique .
" By Professor Joseph Biancbi , Superintendent of the Observatory at Modena .
The Author proposes the construction of a new sidereal catalogue , accompanied with a graphic representation of all the stars visible within the field of view at each observation , by means of the meri ?
dian transit of the most conspicuous stars across the field of a telescope of four inches aperture , attached to a three-feet circle .
He directs this telescope to any elevation of the heavens that happens to be clear ; and bringing any conspicuous star to the horizontal wire , he watches its transit over the two first vertical threads ; then , suddenly intercepting the light , makes a diagram of all the stars in the field down to the 12th magnitude ; and this he performs with sufficient expedition to enable him , on restoring the light , to observe the transit of his principal star over the fourth and fifth threads .
The author has appended to the description of his method explanatory drawings , displaying 600 fields , of which the principal star in each , has its right ascension and declination determined .
Hesubjoins some remarks on the rate of clocks , as influencing the observations on the upper , lower , and opposite passages ; and proposes a plan for a system of symbols expressive of the relative magnitude of the stars recorded in his catalogue .
The author farther states as one of the most important results of his researches the probable existence of a general and curious law of position in the stars , namely , that they are distributed in pairs ; each star having a corresponding one in the opposite meridian , very nearly of she same declination and magnitude ; a coincicience which he considers as extremely favourable to the execution of his project for the accurate determination of the position in the heavens of every star .

