3V2 On the ultimate Composition of simple alimentary Substances ; with some preliminary Remarks on the Analysis of organized Bodies in general .
By William Prout , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 14 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 355 .
] The author commences by observing , that the present is the first of a series of communications , which he hopes to have the honour of laying before the Royal Society , on the same subject ; and that the object of the whole series is to determine the exact composition of the three great divisions , viz. the saccharine , the oily , and the albuminous , in which the alimentary matters employed by the more perfect animals may be comprehended ; and afterwards to inquire into the changes induced in them by the action of the stomach and other organs , during the subsequent stages of assimilation .
The present paper includes some preliminary observations on the analysis of organized bodies in general , and the composition of the first of the above classes , viz. the saccharine .
After an historical sketch of the principles and progress of the analysis of organized substances , the author makes some remarks on the difficulties attending the use of oxide of copper as now employed .
He observes that it is not only hygrometric , but , like many other powders , also condenses air .
He lilkewise found , that when the oxide was removed from the tube in which the combustion had been effected , and retriturated , and reburnt ( as in most instances was necessary ) , it almost invariably gained , instead of losing , weight ; a circumstance which he ascribes to the combination of the oxygen of the air contained in the tube , with the partially reduced oxide of copper .
These sources of error , from their variable and uncertain character , he found it impossible to ascertain , and was at length obliged to adopt another principle .
When a substance composed of hydrogen , carbon , and oxygen , is burnt in a given quantity of oxygen gas , one of three things must happen ; either the volume of the gas will not be changed , in which case the hydrogen and oxygen must exist in the substance , in the proportion in which they form water ; or , secondly , the volume may be increased , in which case the oxygen must exceed that proportion ; or , lastly , it may be diminished , when the hydrogen must predominate .
These well-known facts the author has taken advantage of for determining the composition of vegetable substances , and proceeds to describe the apparatus he employed for that purpose , which consists essentially of accurately graduated syphon gasometers , placed at a convenient distance from one another , so that they may be readily connected by means of an intermediate tube , in which the substance to be analysed is introduced .
Heat is applied to this tube by means of a spirit-lamp , and the oxygen gas transferred , by means of mercury , from one gasometer to another , through the ignited tube .
After the operation , the difference of volume , as compared with that of the oxygen originally employed , shows the composition of the substances .
The author then details some precautions necessary to be observed in the process , and points out some of its peculiar advantages ; the chief of which is , that it is not liable to be affected by moisture .
The composition of the saccharine principle is next considered , under which term he includes all those substances in which hydrogen and oxygen unite , in the proportion in which they form water .
These are all alimentary , or capable of becoming so ; and , as they are chiefly derived from the vegetable kingdom , the author considers them as peculiarly deserving the name of vegetable aliments .
Sugar is first examined ; of which he states that there are at least two distinct varieties , and probably many more ( besides the sugar of milk ) .
The most perfect form of this principle is sugar-candy prepared from cane-sugar , the composition of which he states to be , carbon 41*379 , and water , 58-261 ; identical in composition with which are all the most pure specimens of the loaf-sugar of commerce .
Sugar , in this state , contains water of crystallization ; and the author states that he shall give his reasons at length for considering this principle , in the abstract , as consisting of carbon 44-44 , and water 55*55 .
The other variety of sugar , considered by the author as distinct , was obtained from Narbonne honey .
This was beautifully white , and crystallized in spherules ; deprived of its hygrometric water , it was found to consist of carbon 36 36 , and water 63 63 .
Between these two extremes , sugars of almost every possible grade occur ; probably , in many instances , from mixture of the above two varieties .
Some analyses of other sugars are given , such as East India sugarcandy and refined sugar ; the sugar from the maple , beet-root , &amp;c. The next class of bodies considered , is the amylaceous , and the author commences with some remarks on the sense in which he employs the term Protorganized .
He states that he has satisfied himself , from many observations , that the minute quantities of foreign bodies found in all organic products , instead of being mechanically mixed with them , as usually supposed , perform the most important functions ; in short , that organization would not exist without them ; that when a crystallized substance passes into the organized state , its chemical composition frequently remains essentially the same , and that the only difference that can be traced in it is the presence of a little more or less of water , and invariably of minute portions of some of the foreign bodies above alluded to ; and that these appear not only to destroy its power of crystallizing , but usually to change entirely its sensible properties .
This subject he promises fully to illustrate hereafter , but proposes in the mean time to adopt the word Protorganized , to designate all those substances formed essentially on the principles of crystallized bodies , but not capable of assuming that form , probably on account of the presence of the foreign bodies above alluded to .
Starch"from wheat , the author considers as the most perfect form of this principle ; the carbon from which varies from 38 to 40 per cent. , according to the degree to which it has been dried .
Arrowroot , which may be considered as a low variety of starch , analogous to the low sugar of honey , contains still more water , capable of separation , than wheat-starch .
It is to the want of attention to these circumstances that the author assigns the different results given by chemists with respect to the composition of this principle ; which in the abstract , or free from water , he considers as identical with canesugar similarly circumstanced .
The next principle considered is vinegar , a substance that in almost all ages and countries , either by accident or design , has been more or less used as an aliment .
The author states that he had reason to suspect long ago that the hydrogen and oxygen in this acid existed in the proportions which form water , but that he was not completely able to satisfy himself on the point till he employed the present apparatus .
He decided the point by means of the acetate of copper , which produced no change of bulk in the oxygen employed .
He states this acid to consist of carbon 47 05 , and water 52 95 ; results that very nearly agree with those of other chemists .
This principle is not , however , in the protorganized state , except the acid found in almost all animal matters , and hitherto called the Lactic acid , be deserving of that appellation .
The last substance connected with this series is lignin , or the woody fibre , a principle subject to all the varieties of starch before mentioned .
The author finds the composition of this principle , in the abstract , as containing carbon 57 14 , water 52*86 ; and observes , that he is not acquainted with it in the crystallized state , but that he has no doubt of its existence .
In proof of the alimentary qualities of this principle , he quotes the experiments of Professor Autenrieth , of Tubingen , who states that when wood is reduced to a minute state of division , and subjected to other processes , which he describes , it is capable of gelatinizing like starch when boiled in water , and of forming bread .
The sugar of milk is .
next considered .
This , in its crystallized state , is composed of carbon 45 45 , water 54*54 .
Gum-arabic , according to the author , is this substance in the protorganized state , and , like all analogous substances , combines with any proportion of water ; and hence the different compositions assigned to it by differ. .
ent chemists .
As connected with this subject , the author next proceeds to consider the oxalic , citric , tartaric , and saccholactic acids , the composition of each of which is given ; and concludes by observing , that he purposely refrains from all chemical observations , till the whole of the facts in his possession are laid before the Society .

