Observations on the Effects of partial Thyroidectomy .
123 author finds that starch is developed even in this plant in the young leaves .
The starch of the stomatal guard cells is next examined , and the difficulty of depleting these cells discussed .
In experiments with cut leaves exposed to sunlight little or no appreciable increase of starch could be obtained .
In experiments with pieces of leaves floated on sugar solutions , cane sugar was found to produce starch far better than any other ; invert-sugar , glucose , and fructose follow next in order , and maltose is almost useless .
The necessary details of the experiments , and discussion of results and previous literature are given in the full paper .
In Part II the author deals in detail with certain inulins which he has discovered in 8'cilianutans and Gnivalis , and shows by the examination of many other genera that inulin is by no means uncommon in Monocotyledons .
The inulin of S'ciliais remarkable for its easy solubility in cold water , while that of Galanthus requires water at 80 ' C. for solution ; ordinary inulin from Helianthusand other Composite dissolves at about 50 ' C. The proofs of the inulin nature of these bodies , their reactions and mode of occurrence are worked out in detail .
Contrary to previous assumption , inulin and starch may co-exist in the same cell .
It is interesting to note that aquatic species do not store inulin , apparently , but that it is common in those inhabiting dry situations ; the author regards the concentrated solution in the cell-sap of such plants as useful in resisting drought. .
The paper concludes with a detailed examination of the behaviour of the starch and inulin in the bulb of Galanthus at various periods throughout its whole annual cycle of development , comparing the stages with those in the bulb of Narcissus .
Summaries of the literature , and illustrations , accompany the full paper .
" Further Observations on the Effects of Partial Thyroidectomy .
" By Walter Edmunds .
Communicated by Dr. Bose Bradford , E.R.S. Received October 17 , \#151 ; Read November 17 , 1898 .
( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) Two years ago .
Yassale and Generali published some interesting experiments on the thyroid ; they found that excision of the four parathyroids that occur in dogs ( leaving the thyroid lobes ) was followed by symptoms practically identical with those produced by exci sion of the entire thyroid , including the parathyroids .
Mr. W. Edmunds .
These observations I have repeated : eighteen experiments were made in dogs ; in all it was intended to excise all the parathyroids , leaving , as a rule , the thyroid proper ; but in seven it was subsequently found that one , and in one case two , of the smaller parathyroids had escaped excision ; these seven experiments were therefore cases of partial parathyroidectomy or parectomy .
Of the eleven experiments in which the whole of the parathyroids is believed to have been removed , in two , one of the thyroid lobes was removed at the same time ; of these two , one dog died the night after operation and the other survived the operation , but died when the remaining thyroid lobe was subsequently removed .
Of the nine cases in which the parathyroids only were removed , four died : one in two days , one in four days , one in seven days , and one in twenty-eight days .
The other five survived the operation , two after temporary symptoms and three without .
Thus of the nine total parectomies , four died , two recovered after symptoms , and three without .
" The five which recovered were submitted to further excision of one thyroid lobe , and ( if they survived this ) of the other thyroid lobe .
Two died after removal of the first lobe , one died after removal of the second lobe , and two survived even this , which amounted to total thyroidectomy , but they both had temporary symptoms .
The symptoms produced by these operations were ( 1 ) tremors , ( 2 ) a slow and most unstable gait , sometimes going on to paralysis of the hind limbs , and ( 3 ) emaciation and weakness .
In two of the dogs an interesting eye symptom was noticed , viz. , a narrowing of the palpebral fissures with apparent recession of the eyeballs .
This occurred in one dog who succumbed to excision of the parathyroids only , and in one dog who survived this , but died after excision of one thyroid lobe .
In six of the eleven cases microscopic changes were found in the thyroid lobes left at the excision of the parathyroids ; these changes were ( 1 ) a diminution or absence of the colloid in the vesicles , ( 2 ) an excessive amount of intervesicular young thyroid tissue , ( 3 ) multiplication of secreting cells in the thyroid vesicles , and ( 4 ) the secreting cells becoming columnar .
These changes are very similar to or identical with those described as compensating hypertrophy of the thyroid , and to those found in Graves 's disease .
In seven dogs the larger parathyroids were removed , but it was subsequently found that one , and in one case two , of the smaller parathyroids* had escaped excision , these were therefore cases of partial parectomy .
Notwithstanding the incompleteness of the excision , in one of these cases the animal succumbed to the operation after se\ cut ) -t\\ o days .
Observations on the Effects of partial Thyroidectomy .
125 The other six dogs did not die , but four of them had temporary symptoms ; they were submitted to further thyroid excisions , from which they all died , one after simultaneous excision of both thyroid lobes , three after removal of one thyroid lobe only ; two survived this operation , one of them having temporary symptoms ; these both died after removal of the remaining lobe .
In this series , too , besides the usual symptoms of tremors , unstable gait and paralysis , emaciation and weakness , eye symptoms were observed , \#151 ; in four out of the seven dogs .
In two , after the partial parectomy , the eyes became unduly prominent , but subsequently , after a further operation on the thyroid , the palpebral fissures became narrow , and the eyeballs retracted .
In one of the partial parectomies no change was noticed , but after .one of the thyroid lobes had been excised the eyes became unduly prominent , and after the remaining lobe had been excised the palpebral fissures became narrowed , the eyeballs retracted , and the animal died .
In one , after removal of some of the parathyroids , and also , after an interval , of one of the thyroid lobes , no change was noticed ; but after the removal of the remaining lobe with a parathyroid attached , the palpebral fissures became narrowed , and the eyes retracted .
Altogther in the eighteen dogs operated on , ocular changes were noticed in six .
In the partial parectomies , changes in the thyroid lobes left were also observed , the same as those found in complete parectomies and in Graves 's disease .
Similar effects on the eyes were also noticed in monkeys , but these , eight of them , were subjected to total excision of the thyroid including the parathyroids ; four of the monkeys died as a consequence of the operation : one in thirteen days , one in thirty-six days , one in sixty-eight days , and one in 262 days ; three of them were treated with thyroid extract , but this , although it produced marked benefit , did not save their lives .
One monkey was killed by accident ; the other three are still alive .
As to their eye symptoms : in two the eyes appeared to be more prominent , and the palpebral fissures were wider ; and in two the palpebral fissures were narrowed , and the eyes appeared sunken .
In four no change could be seen .
Drawings of the monkeys were made , before and after operation .

