Observations on some Belemnites and other fossil remains of Cephalopoda , discovered by Mr. Reginald Neville Mantell , C.E. , in the Oxford Clay , nearTrowbridge inWiltshire .
" By Gideon Algernon Mantell , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Vice-President of the Geological Society .
The author states , that a line of railway now in progress of construction to connect the large manufacturing town of Trowbridge with the Great Western , being part of the Wilts , Somerset , and Weymouth line , traverses extensive beds of the Oxford clay of the same geological character as those at Christian-Malford in the same county , which furnished the remarkable fossil cephalopods described by Mr. Channing Pearce under the name of Belemnoteuthis , and by Professor Owen ( in a memoir which received the award of a Royal Medal of this Society ) , as the animals to which the fossils commonly known by the name of Belemnites belong .
The son of the author , Mr. R. N. Mantell , being engaged in these works under the eminent engineer Mr. Brunel , availed himself of the opportunity to form an extensive and highly interesting collection of the fossils of the Oxford clay , and other oolitic deposits cut through or exposed by the engineering operations .
Among those transmitted to the author are many illustrative examples of Belemnoteuthes and Belemnites ; some of which confirm the opinions entertained by the late Mr. C. Pearce , Mr. Cunnington , and other competent observers , that the body and soft parts , with the cephalic uncinated arms , &amp;c. of cephalopods , obtained from Christian-Malford by the Noble President and Mr. Pearce Pratt , and referred by Professor Owen in the memoir above-mentioned to the Belemnite , belong to a distinct genus the Belemnoteuthis .
The author describes and figures ' several perfect examples of the phragmocone of the Belemnoteuthis , and institutes a comparison between them and a beautiful example of the phragmocone of a belemnite occupying the alveolus of the guard ; and defines the essential differences observable in the form and structure of these chambered calcareous cones .
He especially points out as distinctive characters of the phragmocone of the Belemnoteuthis , two flat longitudinal ridges which extend upwards from the apical extremity , and the granulated and striated external surface of the epidermis .
T'he phragmocone of the Belemnite has a smooth surface , is destitute of any longitudinal ridges , and terminates at the apex in a very fine point , the axis being in an oblique direction .
The author next describes a remarkable specimen of a Belemnite , twenty-two inches in length , in which the osselet or guard , phragmocone , and capsule or receptacle , are preserved in connexion .
In this fossil is demonstrated , for the first time , the upper or basal termination of the phragmocone , with two elongated calcareous processes extending upwards from the margin : these are analogous in form and position to the prolongations from the peristome of the outer chamber of certain Ammonites , as for example , in A. Jasoni .
In the phragmocone of the Belemnoteuthis the peristome is entire .
Another interesting part of the structure of the Belemnite , not previously detected , is also shown in the same specimen , as well as in many other examples found in the Oxford clay near Trowbridge ; namely , a calcareous shelly periosteum or capsule , which invests the guard , and expands upwards into a horny sheath or receptacle , that surrounds the basal chamber of the phragmocone in which the viscera were probably contained .
This receptacle was formerly supposed to originate from within the alveolus of the guard .
Mr. Miller , many years ago , inferred the existence of a vascular integument around the guard from the meandring impressions of blood-vessels observable on the surface of some specimens ; but the presence of a calcareo-corneous capsule or sheath investing the guard , and expanding into a horny receptacle , has not till now been demonstrated .
The author considers the facts described as proving that the cephalopod of the Belemnite was entirely distinct from the Beleimnoteuthis ; and that the muscular mantle , cephalic arms , and other parts referred by Professor Owen to the former , exclusively belong to the latter genus .
He concludes that the remains of at least three genera of naked Cephalopoda occur in the argillaceous deposits of the oolite in Wiltshire ; namely , the first or true Calamary , with a horny dorsal gladius or pen ; the second , the Belemnoteuthis , or a decapod with uncinated cephalic arms , ink-bag , pallial fins , and a corneo-calcareous phragmocone ; and the third , the Belemnite , which possessed a phragmocone having the apical part implanted in the cavity or alveolus of a guard or osselet , which in its original state resembled in substance the sepiostaire of the Cuttle-fish , but is generally found mineralized by calcareous spar ; and the peristome , possessing two or more elongated shelly processes ; both the guard and the phragmocone being invested with a corneo-calcareous capsule or receptacle .
He observes , lastly , that the body and other soft parts of the cephalopod of the Belemnite are at present unknown .
The author 's communication was illustrated by drawings , and accompanied by the specimens above described .

