On the Aberrations of Compound Lenses and ObjectGlasses .
By J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. F.R.S. &amp; 8c .
Read March 22 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 222 .
] To those mathematicians who have investigated the theory of the refracting telescope , it has often , says Mr. Herschel , been objected , that little practical benefit has resulted from their speculations .
Although the simplest considerations suffice for correcting that part of the aberration which arises from the different refrangibility of the different coloured rays , yet in the more difficult part of the theory of optical instruments which relates to the correction of the spherical aberration , the necessity of algebraic investigation has always been acknowledged ; although , however , the subject is confessedly within its reach , a variety of causes have interfered with its successful prosecution , and the best artists are content to work their glasses by empirical rules .
In the investigations detailed in this paper , the author 's object is , first to present , under a general and uniform analysis , the whole theory of the aberration of spherical surfaces ; and then to furnish practical results of easy computation to the artist , and applicable , by the simplest interpolations , to the ordinary materials on which he works .
In pulrsuing these ends he has found it necessary somewhat to alter the usual language employed by optical writers ; --thus , instead of speaking of thefocal length of lenses , or the radii of their surfaces , he speaks of their powers and curvatures ; designating , by the former expression , the quotient of unity by the number of parts of any scale which the focal length is equal to ; and by the latter , the quotient similarly derived from the radius in question .
After adverting to some other parts of the subject of this paper , more especially to the problem of the destruction of the spherical aberration in a double or multiple lens , and to the difficulties which it involves , Mr. Herschel observes , that one condition , hitherto unaccountably overlooked , is forced upon our attention by the nature of the formula of aberration given in this paper ; namely , its destruction not only from parallel rays , but also from rays diverging ' from a point at any finite distance , and which is required in a perfect telescope for land objects , and is of considerable advantage in those for astronomical use : 1st , The very moderate curvatures required for the surfaces ; 2nd , That in this construction the curvatures of the two exterior surfaces of the compound lens of given focal length vary within very narrow limits , by any variation in either the refractive or dispersive powers at all likely to occur in practice ; 3rd ; That the two interior surfaces always approach so nearly to coincidence , that no considerable practical error can arise from neglecting their difference , and figuring them on tools of equal radii. .

