An Account of some Books .
I. DISCOURSE PHYSIQUE DE LA PAROLE , par M. DE CORDEMOY , a Paris in 12 ~ which is now a printing in English at London for Mr. John Martin in 12 ~ .
THis Author , after he had in a former discourse , ( whereof anaccount was given Numb. 17 : p. 306 .
under the Title of Le discernement du Corps &amp; det ' Am ) proposed the way of Knowing on 's self , thewing , that it consists only in discerning in our se ves the Operations of the Soul , and those of the Body ; doth now propose the means of knowing others , which is speech .
He explicateth , what it is , and endeavours exactly to distinguish , what it borrows from the Soul , and what from the Body .
In this disquisition , he reasons upon nothing but what he hath found in himself , and as if he had never yet been assured , there were any other men besides himself , he stays in the very beginning upon this consideration , viz. Whether it be necessary , that all Bodies , which he sees to be like his , be united to such Souls as his ?
resolved not to believe it , unless he have such evident signs of it , that he can doubt no longer thereof .
He examines , what the most surprising things are , that Bodies do , and as long as he can impute the cause of it to the disposition of their Organs , he thinks he may assure , they have no Soul : But after having found in the sole frame and position of the parts of the Body , how to render a reason of the noise , sounds , difference of voices , and even of words , pronounced by Echo 's and Parrets , he finds himself at last obliged to admit Souls in all such Bodies , as resemble His , and to acknowledge it not possible , that they should thus speak to purpose as they do , without being endowed with Reason .
Next , having found , that to Speak , is nothing but to give signs of our thoughts , he takes notice of some of those signs The first , he considers , are the motions of the Face , and those sounds , which ordinarily accompany the different stares of the Body ; observing , that naturally they are joined to Passions , which the soul feels on the occasion of changes in the Body : taking also notice , that this manner of expressing on 's self is the first of Languages , and the most Universal , since there is no Nation but understands it .
Besides these Natural signs of the Passions of the soul , he discovers that there are others , that are instituted , by which she can express whatsoever she conceives .
He shows the agreement and difference of some of these signs in order to make his deduction from thence to be understood .
Here he takes occasion to consider , How one may invent a Language ; How a man may understand that of a Country , where no man understands his ; and then , how Children learn to speak ; admitting here the force of Reason in them from their infancy , to make them discern the signification of every word ; but what surprises him most of all is , the order they follow therein , forasmuch as it is altogether like that of the Grammar ; even the Rules of this seeming to have been learnt from little Children .
Then he distinguishes , what it is , that the Body contributes to Speech ; examining in a Speaker , how the Air enters into his Lungs ; why it makes a found in issuing out of the Wind-pipe ?
What diversity the Muscles cause in sound ?
What parts of the mouth are employed to make it terminate in a voice ?
What is the configuration of every of them in these different terminations ?
What is the change of the Throat , Tongue , Teeth , Lips in all the Articulations ?
Which gives him to understand , what Speech is as to the Body .
Then he observes the effect , which sound produces in the Ear and Brains of the Hearer ; and finds , that it is by reason of the Agreement , which is between the Brain and the other parts of every Animal , that it can be so differently agitated by different sounds .
And having considered the use of the Nerves , which communicate themselves from the Ear to all the parts that serve to the forming of speech , he discovers the reasons of many effects , that are thought surprising , as to see certain Bi ds imitating the song of others , the sound of our Musical Instruments , and often our very Words .
Hence also he draws Reasons to convince him , that Brutes need no Soul to make a noise , nor to be moved by a voice , nor to imitate the sound of our words : Whereas he finds , that in Men the motion of the Parts , which serve for the Voice , or of those that are agitated thereby , is always accompanied by some thoughts or other ; and that in speech there are always two things inseparably joined , viz. the Formation of the voice , which cannot proceed but from the Body , and the signification or Idea joined with it , which cannot come but from the soul .
II .
DE INFINITIS SPIRALIBUS INVERSIS , INFINITISQUE HYPERBOLIS , aliisq ; Geometricis , Auth. F. Stephano de Angelis , Veneto .
Patavij , in 4o .
THis Author treats here concerning the Figures mentioned in the Title ( measuring their Area 's ) very accurately and geometrically , ; as also concerning several other things , conducing to the perfection of Geometry .
He mentions one of these Spirals to be the Line described by a Heavy body , falling towards the Center of the earth , supposing the Earths Motion ; where also he touches the controversy betwixt himself and Riccioli ; of which we discoursed more at large in the next foregoing Number .
III .
Michaelis Angeli Ricci Exercitatio Geometrica ; in 4o .
printed at Rome .
THis Book is re-printed in London , for Mos .
Pitts in LittleBrittain and annexed to Logarithmotechnia N. Mercatoris , printed for the same ; of which latter we intend to entertain the Reader in our next , ( God permitting .
) It was thought fit to be so reprinted , partly , by reason of its scarseness , there being but a few printed for the Author in Italy , but chiefly , by reason of the excellency of the Argument , which is , de Maximis &amp; Minimis , or the Doctrine of Limits : Wherein ( according to the account of the Intelligent Mr. J. C. ) the Author shows a deep Judgement in discovering a Medium to reduce the lately found out Analytical Doctrine de Maximis &amp; Minimis to pure Geometry .
The Tract it self is very small , being but little more than two sheets of Paper ; wherein is demonstrated the Doctrine of Caravagio de Applicationibus , who affirms , that he , who is ignorant therein , may mispend his time about AEquations , in searching for that which cannot be found .
He delivers also a method of drawing Touch-lines to all the Conick Sections , and divers other Curves , concerning which , the Author speaking of Apollonius , faith ; Si quis ipsius Constructionem , atque demonstrationem 34 .
prop. 1 .
lib. Conicorum cum nostris comparabit , nonnihil fortasse proficiet in Art dilatandi Propositiones &amp; Demonstrationes .
Nam quod Ille de Quadratica tantum Hyperbole , Ellipsi , &amp; Circulo statuit , Nos ad omnes porrigimus Hyperbolas , Ellipses Circulosque Infinitos : And p. 12 .
the like for infinite Parabolas : And these are some of those matters handled by the Author , which p. 7 .
he affirms to be of excellent use , Ad inveniendas plurium linearum Tangentes , figurarum Centra gravitatis &amp; Quadraturas : Herein , agreeing with des Cartes in his Geometry , p. 40 .
where speaking of the same matter , he faith ; Nec verebor dicere , Problema hoc non eorum modo , quaescio , utilissimum &amp; generalissimum esse , sed etiam eorum , quae in Geometria scire unquam desider averim .
This excellent Author promises some other Treatises in his Preface to an Abbot , where he faith ; Si hoc assequar , ut tibi caeterisque amicis , earundem disciplinarum intelligentibus , probetur , minus crit imposterum , quam ob rem humanissimis tuis hortationibus oblucter , cum Author mihi esse perseverabis edendi alia , quae tecum j ampridem communicavi , de Praeceptis universae Artis Analyticae Geometrica methodo breviter &amp; expedite demonstratis , una cum Animadversione Erratorum , quae in ipsis tradendis magni nominis Authors errasse deprehendi ; faciliusque obtinebis , no diutius premam apud me , quaecunque de Geometria disputata , &amp; literis consignata , in certas redegi Propositiones , &amp; ex his illam praecipue a Torricellio &amp; a Te quoq ; tantopere commendatam , quae integram doctrinam 30 .
Propositionum Archimedis , Lucae Valerii , &amp; aliorum , una complectitur .
Besides , he promises ( which matter yet hath already been well handled by La Lovera in his Elementa Tetragonismica , Tolosae , A. 1551 .
and by Hugenius in the same year in a small Tract , intitul 'd Theoremata de Quadratura Hyperboles , Ellipsis , &amp; Circuli , ex dato portionum gravitatis centro ; ) duas alias , quibus totam pene J. Caroli dela Faille , de Centro gravitatis partium Circuli &amp; Ellipseos a'octrinam ( justo vol. ab ipso explicatam ) absolvo .
But then , p. 7 .
he promises Justum opus , ubi dabimus novam solidorum lidorum Conicorum seriem , qui secti exhibent infinitas , uti vocant , Hyperbolas , infinitas Parabolas , infinitas Ellipses , &amp; analogiam servando , Circulos etiam infinitos : unde Lectoribus manifest apprerebit , de Conicis me multo plus adinvenisse , quam caeteros , eosque ingeniosissimos viros , qui communem tantum Hyperbolen , Parabolen , Ellipsin , &amp; Circulum ( figuras , Conici , in nostra nova serie praedicta , secundi gradus ) agnoverunt ; alias , tertii &amp; quarti , &amp; caeterorum , non item : nisi quod de Parabolis infinitis , per puncta in Plano descriptis , pauca , licet cognitione dignissima , tradidere nonnulli ; quos inter duo praecellentes ingenio viri , Fermatus ac Torricellius , inventorum praestantia &amp; numero commendabiles , ac veteribus proximi , qui novum insuper exogitarunt Hyperbolarum Infinitarum genus .
Neque praetereundum puto , quam plures Apollonii Propositiones atque demonstrationes aptari Sectionibus nostris , &amp; per omnia congruere , affect asque multipliciter ~quationes , harum Sectionum ope resolvi facillime &amp; determinari posse .
IV .
LA VENERY ROYALE du Sr. de SALNOVE , in 4~ .
a Paris .
THe Author of this Book , having ( as himself declares ) practised both the Art Military and that of Hunting for the space of 35 years under the active Reigns of those two Great Kings in France , HENRY IV .
and LOUIS XIII .
affirms , that he delivers only from his own experience the true Rules of Hunting : in the performing of which , he doth , from the different kinds of Game , divide his Book into 6 parts , teaching , what belongs to the Hunting of the Stagg ( where he inserts the peculiar manner of Stag-hunting in Piemont ) the Hare , Roe-buck , Wolf , Wild-boar , and the Fox ; describing withal the peculiar and approved remedies for all manner of diseases of all sorts of Hunting-dogs ; and adding his observations of all the various sounds , and his instructions for all the Terms of Hunting .
All which he concludes with directions , how to stock Forests with great Dear , and with an En meration of all the considerable Woods and Forests in France , together with their Games , Lodges , Relays , &amp;c. In the SAVOY , Printed by T.N. for John Martyn , Printer to the Royal Society , and are to be fold at the Bell a little without Temple-Bar , 1668 .

