]\gt ; The Chemical Dynamics of Photographic Dovelopment .
447 The Theory of hotographic Processes : On the Chemical Dynamics of Development By S. .
SHEPPARD , , and C. E. K. MEES , B.Sc. icated by SIR WILLIAM AMSAY , K.C.B. , eceived December 20 , 1904 , \mdash ; Bead February 2 , 1905 .
( Presented in Theses for the of B. Sc. by in the University of London .
) Historical and \mdash ; The following work was undertaken with the view of applying physico-chemical methods to the study of photographic development .
Although , as has been pointed out by Ostwald , the problem falls in the province of chemical dynamics , but little systematic work has been done from this point of view .
The increasing use of gelatino-bromide films in connectio1l with radiation phenomena make a greater knowledge of the laws describing development and exposure very desirable , while the importance of the photographic industry needs no comment .
The following brief historical introduction is necessary in order to sum up the made and the terminology in In 1878 , Sir W. Abney showed that the black reduction product in development was metallic silver .
He introduced the measurement of the transparency of the deposits by means of a photometer , and proposed as the relation between the mass of silver reduced and the transparency a form of the law of error .
In 1890 , lIessrs .
F. Hurter and .
C. Driffield made a systematic survey of exposure and development in which a new terminology was introduced and several very important conceptions and results .
These exbended in 1898 in a second paper dealin largely with development .
They considered that the ordinary exponential lawS for the orption of light in homogeneous media held for the photographic image and confirmed this view experimentally .
They gttve the following terminology , which has been generally accepted:\mdash ; Transparency Opaoity Density I ) , O. , the density , is for convenience usually * Pbil .
Mag 1878 ; also ' E. 10th edit .
, art .
" " Photography 'Journ .
of Soc. of Cllem .
Industry , ' May , 1890 .
'Photographic ' 1898 ; Eder 's ' Jahrbuch .
Phot 1899 .
S Bunsen and Roscoe ' Pogg .
Ann vols .
95 to 100 .
VOL. IXXIV .
2 Rcfercnces to the work on exposuJ'e and development will be in the course of the present .
Many of their conclusions havo been controverted chiefly from isolated experiments .
Nevertheless , .
method of sensitometry has been nominally adopted for poses ibeen attacked byitAhp.urter a may be found in the short-lived ' Archiv .
wiss .
Phot.'S and , in especial , Abegg 's " " silver-germ " " theory of exposure and development .
This is deaIt with later .
All developers are , chemically speaking , reducing agents , but the converse does not hold .
In connection with this , Bredig has pointed out the importance of the " " reduction potential\ldquo ; lT as a function of the developer .
However , as there is no strict oportionality between " " potential\ldquo ; and reaction velocity , other conceptions are necessary , if the ' efficiency\ldquo ; of developers is to be measured .
The relation , as has pointed out , may be conceived as anaIogous to Ohm 's law , potential velocity and this " " resistance " " in chemical reactions is a term difficult to define or measure .
The chemistry of organic developing agents has been extensively investigated by Messrs. Lumiere and Dr. Andresen , to whom we owe the following rule:\mdash ; All developsrs are tuted aromatic derivatives , ining two of the groups OH and joined by an ortho- or ) , the meta- bodies not acting as developers .
AndresenSS pointed out the analogy between theso bodics and the simple inorganic types , , hydrogen peroxide , Zeit.xtinction , instea of the anomqlous " " density this tity is the same as he " " Ex coefflcient\ldquo ; troduced by orption photometry .
\ldquo ; Phof .
Journ. " " On ry ibid. , No. 9 . .
cit. suyra , or ' Sitzber .
Wietl .
Akad vol. 113 , 1899 , sect. A. S .
Wiss .
Phot lb99 Io ) .
Zeit .
, 357 .
Nernst , ' Theoret. Chem Auflage , p. 710 .
Ostwald , Bd .
, .
( Auflage ) .
, ' Theoret. Chemic ) , p. 666 .
Photo lletirl , ' 1895 , et seq. Eder 's rbuch , 1899 ( pp. 140 to 147 ) SS 'l'hot .
'1899 , p. 213 .
Eder 's rbuch , 1899 to 147 ' of .
449 ydrazine , and , hydroxylamine , all of lvhich function as flevelope ] It seems possible that the ntitative 1tion of velopmeut might throw light on the ities of a large group of rganic bodies .
to the complications present in organic developing sohltioJls , *he tction was first studied with ferrous salts , those employed being oxalate , citrate , and fluoride .
These can be easily estimated analytically , and disturbing side reactions do not occur to aIty extent .
methods and conclusions arrived at can then be applied to the study of other developing agents .
and of .\mdash ; The apparatus used by the { authors and other investigators for the investigation of sensitometry development have been very fully ibed e so that { only a brief description with an account of the in working is necessary .
The progress of the reaction } studied ) measuring ttJe density , varying of light action being ) tained by means of a special sensitomoter .
( a ) The sensitometer impressed a known gradation of exposure on the plate by means of an tely calibrated sector-wheel , exposed to a constant pressure acetylene burner .
S ( b ) A thermostat was employed , so that all the chemical reactions involved took place under constant conditions , tomperature to C. The absorption photometer used was a Hiifner spectrophotometer The silver deposib hnd no spectral absorption , but measurements were made in the bright green , the regio1l of maximum luminosity in the visual curve .
instrument uses two Nicol prisms for polarising the light , and so the field .
If be the angle of rotation of the analyser , , the transparenoy is equal to , and , the density tfter H Driffield is equal to .
The cstimation of the error for a single density\mdash ; the scatter\mdash ; gave the following error from to was roximately c at As * Le Roy .
, ( Bull .
Soc. FI .
Phot 1894 , vol. 23 .
Andresen , ' Phot .
Corr ol .
, p. hcppard , ' Zeit .
II , 1 , 1904 .
'Phot .
Jo " " )'ents for Sensito[uctrio Investigation ] .
, 1904 , No. 7 .
citLoc .
Zeit .
region for maximum seIlsitiveness for } cnccs in intensity , keit , lies , according to Plluger , betw ce .
'Ann .
) , Bd .
9 , p. 207 .
Cf .
rtens : " " Modified Konig .
ophotometer , \ldquo ; ' .
Pliys Flge .
, Bd .
12 , 1903 .
' As long as does lie near or , the just perceptible of of } compa , rison Iields , is \ldquo ; Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
six readings were taken , from to , the figures are trust worthy to three units on the third decimal place .
The next consideration is as to how far represents the mass of silver per unit area .
In treating the image as obeying the absorption law , no account is taken of the light diffusely scatbered .
It is true that so long as all densities ars measured at the same distance , ths scattered light lost is probably proportional to the scattering surface , i.e. , to the density .
In this case the result does not affect the form of the curve , for ' ( mass of silver ) , but only the slope , i.e. , the photometer-constant .
But the error due to this cause with the Hufrler instrument is , for negatives , inappreciable .
If proper precautions with regard to obstruction of light by the absorption stand are taken , and adjustment made so that the zero does not alter , it is found that the measured density does not alter on changing ths distance of the light source .
Further , if a diffusing medium , such as milk-glass , be interposed , the density rsadings are not altered beyond the probable error .
On the other hand , if this be done with an undeveloped plate , quite different readings are obtained .
When measuring highly diffusing media , such as haloid of silver emulsions , it is necessary to a highly light , and also to utilise anarrow strip of transmitted bundle of rays .
This may be accomplished by msans of the carriers described in our former paper .
The netric Constant.\mdash ; As was stated above , Hurter and Driffield showed that the amount of silver per unit area was directly proportional to the density where is the photometric transparency .
This was found for densities from to , the mean value of being is the mass of silver in grammes per 100 corresponding to a density of , and is henceforth referred to as the photometric constant .
A redetermination of in 1898 gave for ferrous oxalate .
The photometric onstant varies slightly with the developer , especially if organic stain be deposited .
Dr. Eder also confirmed this ratio for densities from to , and obtained the value for ( ferrous oxalate ) .
As this relation is of great importance in the theory of meant and sensitometry , lve made a redetermination , extending the range of densities to , as it seemed possible divergencies might occur at higher densities .
The photometr constant allows quantities of silver to be estimated much belo analytical measurement .
Hurter and Driffield , after the necessary de1lsity-measurements , removsd the film from the plate and dissolved the silver in nitric acid : it was then precipitated as , and weighed .
Dr. Eder converted the silver directly by means of and HC1 into These gravimetric methods are somewhat disadvantageous in dealing with the small quarltities of silver present .
If plates of small area are *Abney , ' Phil. Mag 1876 .
C. Jones , ' Phot .
Journal , ' 1898 ) The bemicat Dynamics of Photographic , the ultimate analytical error for so small a quantity of may seriously affect the results , while with larger plates the irregularity the developed density , primarily due to coating , causes errors which are only partially compensated by taking many readings over the plate .
It would be preferable , moreover , to precipitate the silver as AgBr , both owing to its slighter solubility and the greater weight of precipitate obtained .
A preliminary gravimetric determination was made , in order to check the volumetric method subsequently employed .
The densities rnnged from to and the value of obtained was The volumetric method adopted was Volhard 's , with thiocyanate sometimes controlled by the precipitation with .
The standard ( silver solution was , prepared bydissolving grammes pure in water with excess of and made up to 1000 at C. This was checked by analysis , and two concordant determinations gave the factor .
The standard KCNS , had the factor Details of the Estimation on Plafes.\mdash ; Half-plates and whole-plates were exposed at 2 to 3 metres , carefully developed , fixed and washed .
Very careful washing was necessary in order to extract all soluble salts .
They were dried at the standard temperature .
The density was measured in 20 to 30 places , and the area ; after this the film was removed by dilute HF and soaked in many changes of distilled water , with frequent pressure between filter paper , to remove all soluble salts which might interfere .
The film was then dissolved in slight excess of pure , SG and the gelatine completely destroyed by heating , as otherwise it interferes with the subsequent titration by forming a pseudo-solution of the precipitate and retarding its aggregation .
S The solution was made up to 25 .
at C. and titrated with KCNS , using 2 .
of 10-per-cent .
ferric-am .
sulphate as indicator .
The following series is exemplary .
Four series of measurements were made in this way , the density ranging from to , and the curve shows that there is no bias throughout the range .
Series IV .
Plate .
Area .
Density .
Titre .
P. *Cf .
Mohr 's ' Titrirmethode .
' This was necessary , variations the developed density up to 10 per cent. occurred , chiefly due to ting errors .
ruCf .
eyewetz Oetention o\ldquo ; .
in ' P. 1902 .
Messl'S .
S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K Mees .
[ Dec. The means of all series are as follows:\mdash ; I Gravimetric .
II Volumetric .
III 0.01029 Total mean 001-031 for plates employed .
Wratten ordinary cnlulsion and ferrous oxalate .
Curve I shows directly proportional ratio between the density and mass of silver per 100 .
The mean value differs materially fromthat found by Hurter and Driffield , but this may be due ( a ) to a constant error in their photometer ; ( b ) to the plates used , as it seems probable that the emulsification of the silver haloid has considerable influence on the power\ldquo ; of the silver subsequently posited .
This covering power\ldquo ; is , of course , the quantity or photometrip constant .
Ag The Ch emical narnics of Development .
453 The extent to which the exponential law holds for gelatine emul$isions is of great practical importance , as it provides a rapid and easy !
method of measuring the amount of substance present .
The following experime1lts indicate it holds within certain limits .
Table culated from Hurter and Driffield .
Density .
1 gramme The writers erted sil into AgBr and measured the lsity i each case .
Considering how high the figures are , the resuIts are tory .
Series I. Density of AgBrsilver .
, for II .
Density of ) , for AgBr Comparing these with Hurter and Drifficld 's nunlbers , it is obvious that the physical state of the haloid has tremendous influence 011 the Considcring the importance of this quantity for scnsitomctry , the constant seems worthy of vestigation in connection with tion .
The investigation shows that the density can be accepted as a tsure of the mass of silver reduced .
Error.to Plntes .
UnevcnllGSS in the coating of the plates introduces a large source of errors .
III these researches , emulsion spccially coated on patent plate glass was used , the edges being rejected .
We have to Mr. Wratten for the oar keIt and his readillCSS in experimental plates .
Nevertheless , the figures show , the error from this source is Plates exposed and devcloped , resulted ) Iean Greatost per cent. per cent. per cent. * Probably due to " " scatter\ldquo ; ( rror .
454 Messrs. S. .
Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Dec. From these and other measurements it was calculated that from cause alone the probable error on a single developed density is 1 per cent. Ths authors have since constructed an instrument for the more exact coating of plates .
Method of jlopment and Developer.\mdash ; The thermostat and plateholders have already been described .
Previous to development , the plates were soaked for 2 to 3 minutes in a tube of distilled water in the thermostat .
Development was -stopped by plunging the plates in cold water , they were washed , fixed in pure hypo , washed , cleared in dilute HC1 , rinsed , wiped with cotton wool , and dried at a uniform temperature .
The developer first used was ferrous oxalate .
A physico-chemical investigation had shown that the iron was present as a complex , which is stable in the presence of excess of free oxalate ions , according to the equilibrium When the ferrous oxalate is present in solid form , the constant for the above equilibrium is at C. The standard solutions employed were A. 278 grammes per litre , molecular , .
184 checked by titration with standard The developer was always slightly acidified with pure The Velocity of .\mdash ; This was studied by measuring the growth of the density , i.e. , the mass of silver , with the time of reaction , in full analogy with other kinetic investigations .
The following facts were experimentally ( a ) The silver deposited increases rapidly at first , then more slowly , and finally tends to a limit .
( b ) This limit depends only on the exposure .
( c ) The velocity depends upon the concentration of the reducer .
( d ) A soluble bromide reduces the velocity , but the " " slowing off\ldquo ; with time is not so pronounced .
Temperature was always C. , unless otherwise stated .
Table I for , and \amp ; Developer A .
Exposure 10 CMS .
2 , , .
Exposure 50 CMS .
, " " uments for Sensitometry ' P. 1904 , No. 7 .
'Proc .
of Chem. Soc vol. 21 , No. 288 , p. 10 .
1 Apparent exceptions to this law will discussed in subsequent work .
1904 .
] hemical Dynamics of Photographic Development . .
A. Time .
Density .
mins .
45 .
, 90 .
, and confirming B. Time .
nsity .
mins .
, , , , , , , 1.528 , 2.429 Developer , to , , with Table II . .
Density .
mins .
, 1.375 , 1.541 , 1.847 , 2.398 Time .
Density .
mins .
, 0.741 , , , , 0.939 40 .
, , , 1.185 , , , , 1.360 90 .
, 1.409 , 1.574 , 12 honrs These facts are in agreement with Hurter and Driffield 's statement that development tends to a limit depending upon the exposure .
They considered that their results were )resented by the formula where density at time ultimate density , and is a co1lstant .
They stated that this was arrived at ' on the idea ) the number of silver bromide particles affected by light is greatest in the front layer of the film and decreases in geometrical progression as each successive layer is reached and ' that the developer reduced the particles as it ated the film Apart from the inherent improbability of this process taking place so regularly , it would , as was pointed out by Luggin , give resuIts in contradiction to the law of constant-density * ' J. Soc. of Chem. Ind May , 1890 .
'Zeit . .
Phys. Chem 23 , p. 622 .
Messrs. S. E. heppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Dec. ratios demonstrated later .
A conclusive experimental disproof of the hypothesis is given by the fact that a plate exposed from the glassside develops normally , although in this case the layer ining fewest reduced particles is reached by the developer first .
Table III .
Time .
Density .
K. mins .
, , For meaning of , see later .
The mass-time curve is quite normal .
Another theory of development-velocily was proposedby Dr. Abegg , based on his " " silver-germ " " theory of the latent image .
According to this , the velocity of development , i.e. , the number of silver germs deposited in unit time is proportional to the number present at any time .
This may be expressed by , where and are constant of germs due to exposure and ripening respectively , and is the number due to development .
It is evident that as increases the velocity should increase , and a steady acceleration should bc noticed till the whole film was developed through ; in this unmodified form the expression is in obvious disagreement with the facts of development .
Th of JJevelopm .\mdash ; The investigations of Boguski , Noyes and Vhitney , and especially of M. Wildernlan , S E. Bruner , and Nernst have led to a better mderstanding of the reaction-velocity in heterogeneous systems , among which the development of silver-bromid6 naturally stands .
When a solid dissolves , the rate is proportional to its surface and to the difference between the saturation-concent atlon that at the given moment .
At the boundary between the phases saturation exists , so bhat the rate of solution depends on the diffusion velocity .
When a chemical action is superposed , Nernst assumes that in most oases the equilibrium in the reaction-layer is adjusted practically infinite velocity compared with the diffusion process .
If the lcngth of the difftlsion path and the diifusion coefficients are known , in many cases the velocity may be calculated in bsolute measure .
, ' ' 1899 , vol. 1 .
Y. ald , Auflage , Bd .
, .
' Chem. Kinetik .
' 'Zeit . .
Phys. Chem 23 .
SM .
, 'Phil .
Mag October , 1902 ; 'Zeits .
Physik .
Chem vol. 30 , 1899 , p. 341 .
'Zeit . .
Chem 47 , 1904 , ffi 1904 .
] The hemical Dnamics of Photographic .
457 Now , the chemical cquation for development with ferrous oxalate is probably ) , i.e. , one silver ion is ( t ) converted into metallic silver .
The velocity equation will then be may be reckoned constant 011 the above view of the instantancous stment of the , as solid AgBr is present .
If we assume a layer of co1lstant thickness , which dsion ttkes place , then there difluse iuto the of reducer in the time , where is the diifusior ] cocfficient of the reducer , its concentration , and ents of AgBr hnve been reduced .
If be very small compared with , the totad concentration , this becomes a.dt , and the velocity of is given by , where is the surface of the solid phase , and .
Now the existence of maximum fixed quantity of developable AgBr is proven by the experiments detailed above .
We shall distinguish the amount of this by ttgBr ) and in the conrse of the reaction it varies from AgBr ) to O. The surface , thercforc , also varies from AgBr ) to O. Now , the microscopic of the photo-film ) that it consists of a number of very fine AgBr grains embedded in gelatine .
This , and the fact the emulsiolt absorbs light , according to the law where is the of haloid , avow us to substitute for , the surface is directly proportional to the mass of at any time , therefore to its optical density .
The optical density of the latent image AgBr ) must equal , the density reached development , while , obviously , the density of the AgBr ) at any time , lals , where is the density of reduced silver at the tinle , .
IIence , which gives on ation .
If this formula be written ( , it will be seen to ) the same as Hurter and Driffield 's , when , but it ] tained 0 quite general ounds , frec from hypothesis , as to the llatule or distribution of the haloid .
* A -graiued encity m } be treated ns a solution , mente , \ldquo ; and ltodenstein .
Zelh . .
l'hysik .
458 Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K Mees .
[ Dec. Tested experimentally , the first series gave a decreasing value for K. It was found that this was due to the accumulation of bromide , which lowered ths velocity .
This was avoided by adding excess of free bromide in such quantity that the amount due to development was negligible .
The following series give some of the results:\mdash ; Table Series I. mins .
, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 0.0199 1.919 Mean Series III .
Time .
Density .
K. mins .
, , , , , , , , 2.053 Mean Series II .
Time .
Density .
K. mins .
, , , , , , , , , , , , 1.962 Mean Series Time . .
K. mins .
, , 0 .
, , 0 .
, , 0 .
, , 0 .
, , , 1.437 Msan Total mean of four series The developer was\mdash ; To c.c. with 1904 .
] The Chemic(Dynamics of Photographic Devdopm .
459 Another batch of the same emulsion gave\mdash ; Series I , Series III , , II , , , Total mean Total mean of four series The following table and curve show that the expression is satisfactory over a lvide range of development , considering the experimental difficulties .
All the series , , D2 , and , were reduced by common proportion to the same value:\mdash ; Table .\mdash ; Curve for and Ferrous Oxalate .
20 me mins .
Curve calc .
It appears that generally the value of is constant for a standard emulsion freshly coated .
iations , however , may be caused by different emulsification , and the value varies with different plates .
460 .
S. E. Sheppald and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Dec. Thus Wrattcn ordinary Barnet ordillary . .
For occasions of space the mean value of with the extremes are given , except where it seems desirable to show that the course of the reaction is unchanged .
Infiuence of Conc .
\mdash ; The constant as developed tbove contains mplicitly C , the total concentration of the iron ; it should , therefore , be proportional to this experimentally .
Table VI .
found .
Br The values for showed some tendency to decrease ; this is probably due to the rapid accumulation of bromide and othsr reaction products , which do not diffuse rapidly , and so influence the velocity by remaining in the reaction layer , a fact which is one of the main causes of divergencies and difficulties in heterogeneous reactions .
A stringent proof of the proportionality is given later .
On the diffusion theory of the development velocity , this proportionality is simply the expression of the fact that the amount of diffusing into the reaction layer is proportional to the conccntration ( vide p. 457 ) .
Nernst has .
pointed out that on this theory it is not admissible to draw concIusions as to the order of the reaction in heterogeneous systems , so that the vise probable theory , that the reaction is mono-molecular with respect to iron , cannot be regarded as strictly provcn by this .
Influof on Velocity.-It is well to photographers that bromide considerably influences the rate of development , for which reason it is used as a restrainer .
The infl , ence of bromide must be due to its effect on the purely chemical reaction ( met .
) The effect on the expression lvas studied .
It was found that the values of for low values of increased till Ostwald , ' Lehrbuch , ' , Auflage , Bd .
, ' Chem. Kinotik .
' W. Nernst .
Chemie , ' p. 673 .
1904 .
] The Dynamics of Photographic Dcvelopment .
461 a fairly constant maximum period was reached .
This initial inductio1l was already noticeable in bromide , and increased as the concentration of the bromide inoreased .
Further , it was modified by the value of , i.e. , of AgBr ) , being shorter for higher values of this .
Values of were obtained from " " \ldquo ; Developer , Ferrous oxalate .
I. .
Increase due to fog . .
II .
KBr .
III .
KBr . . .
And with Ferrous oxalate\mdash ; Series I. KBr . .
results we get\mdash ; Developcr ) Ferrous oxalate .
ltration of Br .
Velocity And for the lower concentration oxalate .
of .
K. Br .
It will be seen that the results ) tained with bt.omide are fairly represented by the simple formula constant , i.e. , as the bromidc is lcreased in geometrical , the diminishes in may discuss hcrc .
the grounds which tho behaviour 01 omidc might bc deduced .
It has been suggested that the action of ] ) romido is due to the of development , silver bromide being -formed and develop462 Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Dec. ment retarded , but the writers found that the addition of small quantities of ferric oxalate , the other reaction-product , had no effect comparable with due to equimolecular quantities of bromida Only with very large concentrations of ferric oxalate ( above was an effect perceived .
Bromide is therefore shown by this method of ' ' isolation\ldquo ; to have an effect per se .
A more probable theory is that bromide acts by lowering the concentration of the silver ions in accordance with the reversible ionic ilibrium AgBr AgBr , ( solut .
) ( solid ) when we have constant .
Now , the chemical equation gives .
for the reaction velocity , and in consequence , the velocity should inversely as the concentration of the bromide ions .
That it has a smaller effect than this confirms the view that the reaction-velocity is chiefly determined by the diffusion equation .
Nevertheless , bromide may so slow the chemical reacbion that its velocity begins to affect that of the total reaction .
We may further notice , as was remarked above , that the expression does not hold over so wide a range when bromide is introduced , bur that the values of rise at first , and then reach a fairly constant period , the induction-period apparently depending both on the concentration of the bromide and on the value of .
The phenomena observed are similar to thoss in " " graded\ldquo ; reactions taking place in homogeneous systems .
These initial disturl)ances are mately connected with the disturbance of the density ratios by bromide .
In order to investigate the action more fully , a series of exposures on the same plate , thus giving different values of , were obtained by means of the previously described sensitometer ; the resuIts of this work will be noted later , with an elaborated theory of the meohanism of development .
Age of Plate.\mdash ; In the course of this work , it was found that the velocity of development depends largely on the age of the plate , diminishing with keeping .
This change is accelerated by heat and atmospheric conditions .
This was discovered when plates of Batch I were used a considerable time after making , and gave quite divergent velocities according as they had been kept .
The phenomenon , lvhile the cause was still unsuspected , caused much trouble .
The tables exhibit the divergencies obtained:\mdash ; *Hurter and Driffield , ' Phot .
Journal , ' 1898 ; Luther , ' Chemische inge in raphie , ' 1900 .
J. Walker , ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , Edinburgb , ' December , 1897 .
The Chemical Dynamics of Photographic Development .
463 Table VIL\mdash ; Developer Fe , KBr Time .
Densily .
mins .
Mean , , i.e. , a reduction to one-third of its former value .
This was for an opened box kept in laboratory cupboard .
Table VIII .
Table VIIIa .
Developer Fe .
Fe .
Br Time .
Density .
K. Time .
Density .
K. mins .
mins .
, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , The values obtained six monlhs before were Br .
so that in this case the speed has been about halved .
This was for a ealed box kept in laboratory cupboard .
Further , for an opened box kept in college locker:\mdash ; * See table , pp. 458\mdash ; 459 .
VOL. LXXIV .
2 Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Deo .
Table IX .
Table IXa .
KBr .
Time .
Deusity .
K. Time .
Density .
K. mins .
mins .
0 .
, , , , , , 20.0 , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 60 .
, , 46 .
, , , , Mean Mean In this case a reduction of only 5 per cent. in the velocity has taken place .
These measurements show that the rate at which a plate develops is diminished with time of keeping .
Apparently a slow irreversible change takes place in the film , which is accelerated by heat and presence of gases , etc. If we consider the expression for the .
, it seems probable that the alteration is due to an effect on , the diffusivity coefficient .
It is quite different from that by so-called ' ' hardening\ldquo ; agents , which do not affect the development velocity .
Only the absolute value of the velocity , and not ths velocity-function , is altered .
Tlu Diffvsion Path , .\mdash ; In his work on heterogsneous reactions , Bruner measured the thickness of the diffusion layer by electro-chem ca .
al reactions , and found , for example , for rats of solution in water of benzo acid , mm. ay In 1 the la er was of this order , but was lessene as the rate of stirring increased .
In the photo film the diffusion path must be equal to the ep Pth of the latent image plus a small layer on the gelatine sir ace .
ic face .
Tho former is not alterable by stirring , and the subsequent mlcroscop measurements show that it is of about the same order as Bruner found , , about to mm. The outer layer is alterable by rotatlon , but is probably not very large , as increasing the rotat on had but astiSrhrignhgt ienffcercetasoend tatyerially , roduced uneven markingth velocit .
Unfortunately , very helocities o A rate of about 30 revolutions per minute was found to ensne homogeneity of the solution on the bounding surface .
It should be noticed that the whols mass an ac of the develop able image iu the case of development lie in the short diffusion ayer in 1904 .
] ThChemical Dynamics of Photographic Development .
465 the gelatine .
How far this modifies the Nernst theory for the reactionvelocity will be considered later .
A slight periodicity in the rate of development was sometimes noted , see curve* .
Note on Fog.\mdash ; It is usual in density measurements to subtract the so called ' ' fog\ldquo ; from the total deIlsity .
This is the density due to inherent fog in the plate , extraneous light , etc. Usually a separate reading is made of the so-called fog strip , but , owing to the diffsrential nature of our instrument , the " " fog\ldquo ; reading was automatically subtracted , and taken from the same portion of emulsion as the exposure .
But the formula shows that there is a theoretical error in assuming the fog in the mexposed strip is equaI to that in the exposed strip .
For let be total mass AgBr , where AgBr changed by light , AgBr uncha1lged .
Then rate of fogging ( ldt ) in fog strip , and equals KB in exposed film .
Obviously , fog increases faster in unexposed film than in the exposed ; it is desirable , therefore , for investigations , to have an emulsion which does give fog-density higher than to even on infinite development , and in most of this work this was fulfilled .
Law of tstant Density .\mdash ; Another deduction from the development formula is the law of constant de1lsity ratios .
If a series of sing exposures are given to a plate , as every de1lsity increases *Cf .
Ostwald , ( Vorles .
uber ' Leipzig , 1902 , pp. 274 , 315 , 362 , ' Zeit .
Phy Cbem 35 , p. 33 , 1900 .
G. Bredig .
Weinmayer , 'Z . .
Chem 42 , p. 600 , ( Periodic Con(act Analy \ldquo ; 466 Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Dec. 20 , proportionately , the ratio of the densities due to any two exposuru is constant , and independent of the time of development .
Hurter and Driffield showed that if a geometrically increasing seriet of exposures be given to a plate over a certain range , the density increased arithmetically .
Over this period of ' ' correct exposure\ldquo ; following equation holds : , where is the is a characteristic constant of the plate , termed the inertia , and is a constant depending upon the- development , and called the development factor .
The magnitudes and are obtained graphically as follows : the densities due to nine successive exposures are plotted as ordinates , and the logarithms of the corresponding exposures as abscissae .
A curve is obtained which , for a certain period , is practically a straight line .
The point where this cuts the exposure axis gives , and if be the angle of inclination , .
Analytically , the value of may be deduced as follows : for two exposures , and , we obtain the densities DI and , the equations being eliminating is therefore independent of the absolute exposure , and only dependent on the which is fixed by the sector wheel .
In order to test the constancy of the density ratios , two plates were exposed simultaneously in the sensitometer to avoid errors due to light inconstancy , and developed for different times .
The values were obtained from the curves in the graphic manner described .
Each plate was allowed 100 .
of developer .
Mol. Mol. to 100 The logarithms of the exposures are given on an arbitrary scale , putting , as the absolute value is unimportant .
A typical table is given below:\mdash ; Table X. mins .
, mins .
No. E. Density .
Density .
Ratio 1 .
2.983 Mean , hence For calibration of sector-wheel , p. 2 .
1904 .
] .
The Chenncal Dynamics of Photographic Development .
467 Other results abbreviated:\mdash ; Series II .
Mean 6 mins .
, , III .
, , 2 , , IV .
, , 8 , , .
, , 5 , , VI .
, , 10 Range of exposure 1\mdash ; 250 .
development 2 mins .
to 2 hrs .
The ratios of densities due to different exposures are unchanged by time of development in a non-bromided developer .
These tables and the curves show that for variations in the time of development from 2 minutes the density ratios and the values of are unaffected .
Every density grows proportionately with the time , fact which finds its rational explanation in the theory of development proposed .
For the straight line portion of exposure the equation ( E-log i ) holds , and for a single density the expression in brackets is a constant .
The development factor , , is , there foro , strictly proportional to , and as , so , where at time infinite which gives the relation between and the time of development .
Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Dec. The following tables show the validity of the expression for batches of plates:\mdash ; Table XI .
Time .
Developmentfactor mins .
6 .
: 0.0578 8 .
, , Mean Table XII .
Time .
mins .
5 .
, , 8 .
, , 3.40 Iean shows that both and vary for different .
for same developer , and are the characteristic development constants of tlje emulsion .
The factor is of considerable importance in practical photography , as it measures the gradation or degree of contrast in a negative .
Influence of Concentration on might be expected , this is slmp .
the time taken to reach a given factor is inversely as the concentrat on of the ferrous oxalate .
Thus for and ferrous oxalate\mdash ; mins .
2 .
, 5.0 , Over the range to ( A ) mins .
( B ) 3.0 , ( C ) mins .
( D ) 12.0 1904 .
The Chemical .
Dynamics of Photographic Jievelopment .
469 Table XIII .
The velocity of development is proportinal to the concentration the ferrons oxalate .
The magnitude , the limiting of the plate , is of great importance .
It expresses numerically the ultimate density-giving powers of plates , and gives a numerical measure of the quality that has hitherto been expressed by such phrases as " " contrasty plates soft plates , " " flaue platten and so forth .
is proportional to the photometric constant of the reduced silver , and so varies slightly lvith the developer , but more so with the emulsification of the haloid .
The practical estimation of and is in cnses beset with much experimental diificulty .
If is very high , the resultant densities are hard to , while many commercial plates , especially rapid ones , give much fog on prolonged developn1ent .
Since the equilibrium is only theoretically reached after infinite time , o1lly a close approximation is reached by long development .
The method given by Ostwald* for ting the was employed to check the results .
The method of obtaining and from neous values of and was pointed out by Dr. L. N. .
Filon:\mdash ; Writing the equation in the form , and taking and so ) , we get , ( ) , putting we have from ( a ) and ) and *buch , utlage , 2 Th. , 2 Bd .
, 470 Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. K. Mees .
[ Dec. which gives , whence may be obtained by substitution ; but it must be noticed that the expression only holds when approximately , i.e. , when the tangential part of the curve is past .
Comparison of Developers .
means of the formulae the relative efficiencies for differsnt developers can be compared .
The following results give the comparison for ferrous oxalate , fluoride , and citrate:\mdash ; .\mdash ; The use of this salt was suggested by Peters ' work on the reduction potential ferrous salts .
Luther explains the fact that ordinary ferrous \mdash ; as do not develop as due to the reversal of the reaction by ferric ions .
But Peters has shown that the E.M.F. of a ferrous chain is very much increased by the addition of a soluble fluoride , owing to the fact that is but slightly dissociated , and further that a complex ferrid-fluoridion is formed , both causes tending to remove ferric ions .
We found that ah solution of in excess of KF developed but slowly .
Prolonged development removed the film from the plate , so that celluloid films had to be used .
The developer was made by mixing and solutions , as the sodium double salt seems more soluble than the potassium one .
The solutions were nearly colourless .
Table .\mdash ; Ferrous Oxalate , Temp. C. Time .
mins .
8 .
, 2.00 Temp. C. Time .
mins .
4 .
, 8 .
, , mean value found by Filon 's expression .
The experiments with ferrous fluoride showed that the law of the constancy of inertia with time of development held here .
For brevity , only the values are given .
1904 .
] Chemical Dyrmmics of Photographic Development .
471 Table \mdash ; Ferrous Fluoride , Temp. C. mins .
2.00 Temp. C. mins .
2.00 Hence , oomparing results , Temp. K Ferrous oxalate .
Ferrous fluoride .
Ratio . . .
This indicates that ferrous fluoride has a somewhat higher temperature-coefficient than ferrous oxalate .
C'itrate.\mdash ; This is a good developer for chloride plates , but develops silver bromide very slowly .
For the plates employed , and for ferrous oxalate at C. It was found that here also the density ratios and the inertia were independent of the time of development .
For the velocity at C.\mdash ; .\mdash ; Ferrous Citrate , Time .
mins .
Whence for table of relative efficiencies at C.\mdash ; Developcr .
Efficiency Ferrous citrate Ferrous fluoridc oxalate Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Dec. 20 , On the Theory of Development.\mdash ; In the ferrous fluoride developer tht reducing agent seems most probably the ferrous ion , ] concentration of which is extremely high .
With ferrous citrate , a complex ferro-citratanion .
Now , on the diffusion theory the great difference in velocity observed is difficult to explain ; in particular , the mobile ferrous ion should have proved the most efficient reducer .
Possibly we still have to do with the nfluence of free ferric ions on the reduction velocity , although their original concentration in the ferrous fluoride solutions was extremely small , while those formed by the reaction ( metal ) , should be immediately removed by the ionic equilibria and However , the action of bromides shows that the actual chemicaI reaction can , under certain circumstances , influence the total reaction velocity .
Although , in general , ionic reactions , suoh .
as we must conceive development to be , oocur with practically velocity , yet it is possible to follow some in which the ionic concentration is very low .
In the ) of silver bromide , the cannot pass solubility product of AgBr , so that the maximum conoentration of silver ionS is very low .
Further , the unkIiown nature and influence on the reaction of the so-called latent image have not been taken i1lto account .
Bodenstein , in a criticism of the Nernst-Bruner theory , ) indicated the presence of a high temperature coefficient as a criterion for whether the speed of reactions in heterogeneous systems is conditioned by the diffusion process or the chemioal reaction .
A study of the temperature-influence , of the influence of soluble bromides , the reversibility of the reaction , and of the microscopy of development and exposure has been made , in continuance of the present work , as well as experiments on the nalure and destruct on of latent image and it is hoped to publish these shortly .
The work given here shows that development can be study quantitatively , and brings it in line with general physico-chemical .
Summary of An accurate quantitative method attaoking photographic questions is described , and it is shown that 1 be the optical transparency of the silver deposited in photograp hic processes , the is accurately proportionaI to the mass silver .
*Cf .
Donnan and Le Rossignol , " " Velocity of Reaction between Potassium Ferricy.anideandIodideinNeutralSolution , \ldquo ; Trans. , 1903 .
1904 .
] The Chemical namics of Development .
473 ( 2 ) From considerations of the growth of the density during development , and of the theory of heterogeneous reactions , the equation , a constant , was shown to represent the reaction ; this was experimentally confirmed .
It is considered that the velocity of development mainly depends upon the rate of diffusion to the affected haloid .
In agreement with this , the velocity as measured by the constant above , is directly proportional to the concentration of the reducer ; ( b ) is affected by the age and condition of the plate ; ( c ) is reduced by the addition of soluble bromides , but not in the proportion which would occur if the velocity of the chemical reaction Ag ( met .
) alone were measured .
( 3 ) The law of constant density-ratios due to varying exposures , deduced from the above theory , is experimentally confirmed .
( 4 ) It is shown that the development-factor in the sensitometry equation is governed by the same laws as a single density .
Methods for culating and are given , by means of the equation K. ( 5 ) By means of this expression the velocities with ferrous oxalate , fluoride , and citrate were compared , the relative of being in concentration ; the anomalies here and the theory of development are discnssed .
In conclusion , it is pleasant duty to express our thanks to Professor Sir Willianl Ramsay , F.R.S. , for continual interest and advice throughout the rebearch , and also to Dr. F. G. , and to Dr. M. W. Travers , F.R.S. , for much advice and sympathy .

