II .
" An Inquiry into the Muscular Movements resulting from the action of a Galvanic Current upon Nerve .
" By CHARLES BLAND RADCLIrFE , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Physician to the Westminister Hospital .
Comimunicated by Dr. SHAKPEY , Sec. R.S. Received February 2 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) In a lecture delivered about two years ago* , in which he treats among other things of the muscular movements resulting from the action of a galvanic current upon a motor or mixed nerve , Professor Claude Bernard says that some of the more important of these movements have been overlooked , and he quotes any account of some investigations by Dr. Rousseau of Vezy , which do away with certain very perplexing variations in the order of these movements .
The movements resulting from the action of a galvanic current upon nerve are usually divided into the three periods of double , alternate , and single contraction which are set down in the following Table : TABLE I.-The Nerve divided and lifted up at its end .
Direct Current .
Inverse Current .
Beginning .
End .
Beginning .
End .
Period of double Strong Contraction .
Contraction .
Contraction .
contraction. .
contraction .
Period of alternate contraction. .
Contraction .
00 Contraction .
I-Period of single contraction. .
Contraction .
0000 Apparent irregularity-"5 Voltaic alternatives .
" Professor Bernard proposes to place another period before the first of these-a period corresponiding to the ' normal unexhausted and undisturbed state of nerve , and characterized by contraction at the beginning of the two currents , direct as well as inverse .
The investigations of Dr. Rousseau show how it is that the order of these contractions is altered by certain changes in the arrangement of the nerve acted upon by the current .
If the nerve acted upon be divided and lifted up at its end , so as to break the circuit of the derived current* , the order of contraction is that which is put down in the preceding Table ; if the nerve acted upon be raised in a loop ( either without dividing it , or , after dividing it , by dropping down the end ) , so as not to break the circuit of the derived current , the order of contraction is that which is represented in the following Table TABLE II.-The Nerve in a loop .
Direct Current .
Inverse Current .
Beginning .
End .
Beginning .
End .
Period of double Strong Contractio .
Strong Contraction .
contractioni contraction .
contraction .
Strong Cnrcin Contraction .
Contraction , contraction .
Contraction Period of alternate contraction. .
0 Contraction .
Contraction .
0 Period of single l contraction. .
00 Contraction .
0 Appareint irregularities- " Voltaic alternatives .
" Now Dr. Rousseau shows that the order of contraction set down in the second Table is due to the action of this derived current .
HIe shows , also , that by excluding the derived current ( which he does by means of an ingenious triple arrangement of poles called the cc rheophore bifurque " ) , the order of contraction becomes one and the same in the case where the nerve is divided and lifted up at its end , and in the case where the nerve is arranged in a loop , the order being that which is set down in the first Table .
Onl inquiring into these matters experimentally , the author finds reason to believe that Professor Bernard has wandered into some degree of error , and that the path of inquiry opened out by Dr. Rousseau is not only a right path , so far as its discoverer has traced it out , but that it leads to the explanation of some very curious alternating movements which have not hitherto been described .
He has been led , also , to form certain conjectures respecting the modus o erandi of electricity in muscular motion which he trusts may serve to simplify this very difficult and complex subject .
1 .
When nerve is in its normal , unexhausted , undivided state , there is , as Professor Bernard points out , contraction at the beginning of both currents , inverse as well as direct , and at the beginning only , if afeeble current 6e used .
This , for example , will be the resuLlt of the application of the feeble current produced by partially moistening the small galvanic forceps of Bernard with saliva .
But it is also a fact , that a stronger current the current for example of a Pulvermacher 's chain of ordinary length moistened with vinegarwill produce contraction at the end as well as at the beginning of both currents ( as in the period of double contraction ) , if applied to a nerve similarly circumstanced .
Nay , it is a fact , that the feeble current of the forceps will give contraction at the beginning of both arranged in a loop across the poles PN of a galvanic apparatus ; the primitive current , indicated by the black arrow , passes by the shortest route from the positive pole P to the negative pole N ; the derived current , indicated by the dotted arrows , passes by the longest route between these poles , and as it also proceeds from the positive pole P to the negative pole N , it passes in the contrary direction to that of the primitive current .
In fig. 4 , the sciatic nerve is divided between P and the thigh , as is meant where the nerve is spoken of as divided and lifted up at its end ; and being divided , the only current passing is the primitive current ; for the circuit of the derived current being broken , there can be no derived current in this case .
currents , and at this time only , after the stronger current of the chain has produced contractions at the end as well as at the beginninigo of both currents , and that we may produce alternately again and again the contraction confined to the beginning , and a contraction occurring at the end as well as at the beginning , of the currents , by applying alternately the feeble current of the forceps and the stronger current of the chain .
The author finds , also , that the feeble current of the forceps will produce contraction at its end as well as at its beginning , if the nerve be raised and placed as a loop across the points of the forceps ; and not only so , but that the same current will produce contraction only at its beginning , if it be applied after slipping away the points of the forceps , and so allowing the nerve to fall back upon the muscles .
Hence the single contraction at the beginning of a feeble inverse or direct current , and not at the end , instead of indicating , as Professor Bernard supposes , the normal state of undisturbed and unexhausted irritability in the nerve , must only be looked upon as the result of the action of a feeble current under particular circumstances .
In a word , the fact is one which reflects the strength of the current rather than the condition of the nerve .
2 .
The curious alternating movements , which do not appear to have been described hitherto , and which may be explained by means of the key which Dr. Rousseau has put into our hands , are best seen when the current is made to act upon the lumbar nerves of one side , but they are also seen in the case where a loop of sciatic nerve is acted upon .
Take the back , loins , and hind limbs of a frog with the lumbar nerves properly exposed , raise the nerves on one side into a loop without dividing them , place them over the platinum poles of a galvanic apparatus ( a Pulvermacher 's chain of ordinary length ) , and pass the current .
On doing this , as might be expected , there is in the first instance , contraction in the limb to which the nerves acted upon belong , but this contraction is slight and transient when compared with the contraction which is set up in the opposite limb , the nerves of which are not acted uton .
In this opposite limb , indeed , the contraction is sure to be both strong and tetanic .
A little later ( and it is to the phenomnena of this stage that the author wishes to direct attention ) , and the results are as follows : Vith the inverse primitive current there is coiutraction in the leg belonging to the same side when the current begins to pass , and contraction in the leg belonging to the opposite side when it ceases to pass ; with the direct primitive current this order of contractioni in the two legs is reversed .
In bringing about these curious alternations , the action of a derived current is obviously concerned ; for on excluding this current by means of Dr. Rousseau 's rheophore bifurque , they come to an end , and the movements resulting from the action of the current are confined to the leg , the nerves of which are directly acted upon .
It is evident , also , that a derived current is what is wanting to produce the contraction in the limb belonging to the opposite side ; for after breaking the circuit of the derived current by dividing the lumbar nerves where they emerge from the spine , and separating the divided ends , and after then completing the circuit by dropping down the end of the divided nerve , or by bridging over the gap by a piece of wet string or paper , by a strip of the animal 's skin , by a piece of wire , or by any other conductor , it matters not what , the contractions occur alternately in the two legs just as they did before the nerve was divided .
Nay , it may be argued from the following experiment , that reflex nervous action has nothing to do in producing these alternations .
Divide the lumbar nerves on one side , not where they emerge from the spine , but where they pass into the thigh ; raise the divided end of the nerve , and place it across the poles of the galvanic apparatus .
In this case the circuit of the derived current is broken , and the action of this current is therefore put out of the question .
In this case , the nerve acted upon by the current is still in connexion with the spinal cord , and through the cord and the nerves proceeding from this cord , with the limb on the opposite side ; and hence it might be supposed that the current might irritate the cord , and so provoke contraction in the limb on the opposite side .
But the simple fact is , that the current may be passed inversely or directly without producing contraction anywhere , except now and then a few flickers in the muscular fibres in the lumbar region of the side corresponding to that of the nerve operated upon .
The simple fact , indeed , appears to show that reflex nervous action can have nothing to do with the contractions in the limb belonging to the opposite side , which contractions are produced by the action of the galvanic current on one set of lumbar nerves ; and , certainly , with the key furnished by Dr. Rousseau , reflex nervous action is not required to explain the phenomenon .
The following diagram will give the case in which the lumbar nerves on one side are acted upon by the inverse primitive current , aa being the lumbar nerves , PN the poles of the galvanic apparatus , the black arrow the primitive current , the dotted arrows the derived current .
The results , as seen in contraction in the limb belonging to the same side , or in that belonging to the opposite side , are seen in the Table below the figure .
The case is plain .
Fig. 1 .
PN The Inverse Current .
Beginning .
End .
On the same side ... Contraction .
0 On the opposite side. .
0 Contraction .
On the side acted upon by the inverse primitive current , the portion of nerve nearest to the muscles supplied by the nerve ( the muscles of the leg ) is traversed , not by the inverse primitive current , but by a direct derived current ; and hence we should expect to find in the leg on this side ( for at the time of these alternate contractions the nerve is in the state in which the current produces contraction alternately at the beginning of the direct current and at the end of the inverse current ) the effects of a direct current-contraction at the beginning of the current .
We should expect to find this ; for of two currents acting upon the same nerve , it is the one nearest to the muscles supplied by the nerve which acts uporn these muscles .
In the limb on the opposite side we should expect , on the contrary , the effects of an inverse current-contraction at the end of the current , for the lumbar nerves on this side are traversed by an inverse derived current ; and this , as the Table shows , is actually the case .
A similar diagram and table will show that the results of passing a direct primitive current through a portion of the lumbar nerves on one side are in accordaiee with the same law .
In this case , as in the other , the acting current on both sides is the derived current .
On the side acted upon by the direct primitive current , the acting derived current ( acting because nearest to the muscles supplied by the nerve ) is inverse ; and therefore the limb on this side ought to contract at the end of the current .
On the opposite side , the course of the derived current is direct , and therefore the limb on that side ought to con-tract when the current begiis to pass : and so it is .
Fig. 2 .
/ / ' / The Direct Current .
Beginning .
End .
On the same side ... 0 Contraction .
On the opposite side. .
Con traction .
0 The results of the action of a galvanic current upon a loop of sciatic nerve are , after a time , analogous to those which have just been mentioned .
At first , the contraction attending upon the beginning and ending of both currents affects the whole limb ; after a time , the leg and thigh contract alternately , in an order which changes with the direction of the current .
Let the following diagram and table represent the case in which a loop of sciatic nerve is acted upon by the direct primitive current , a being the nerve , PN the poles of the galvanic apparatus , the black arrow the primitive current , the dotted arrows the derived current ; and it will be seem that the portion of nerve between the negative 2c pole and the leg is acted upon by an inverse derived current , and that the thigh is traversed by a direct derived current .
ThusFig .
3 .
/ #4r X ; -The Direct Current .
Beginning .
End .
Thigh ... . .
C. .
ontraction .
0 Leg ... ... . .
0 Contraction .
Hence there ought to be , as there is in fact , and as the Table shows , contraction in the thigh when the current begins to pass , and in the leg when the current ceases to pass .
A similar diagram and table will give the case in which a loop of sciatic nerve is acted upon by the inverse primitive current , and show at a glance that the leg ought to contract at the beginning of the current , because the current , acting upon the portion of nerve nearest Fig. 4 .
The Inverse Current .
Beginning .
End .
Thigh ... ... .
00 Leg ... . .
* Contraction .
0 to the leg , is direct derived current .
The diagram will also seem to show that the thigh ought to contract at the end of the current , for the thigh is traversed by inverse derived current .
In fact , however , the thigh does not contract either at the beginning or at the end of the curreDt ; and this perhaps is not to be wondered at ; for the author finds that contraction attends upon the beginning of a dir ect current of a given strength for some time after it has ceased to attend upon the end of an inverse current of the same strength .
3 .
The modus operandi of galvanism upon a motor or mixed nerve is a subject beset with difficulties ; but some of these difficulties do not appear to be altogether insurmountable .
( a ) In looking at the movements belonging to the first periodthat of double contraction ( vide Table I.)-it is not difficult to find a reason which will in some degree explaini how it is that contraction is confined to the beginning and end of the current .
It is not difficult to see that the beginning and eniding of the galvanic current in the nerve may involve certain changes in the strength of the nervecurrent , and that these changes may in their turn give rise to momentary induced currents in the nerve and in the neighbourhood ; for such momentary currents are induced , not only when a current begins to pass and when it ceases to pass , but also at the moments when it undergoes any change of strength .
It is not difficuilt to see , also , that the muscular fibres to which the nerve is distributed may be the seat of some of the secondary currents thus induced , and that these fibres may be thrown into contraction by these currents .
Nor is it diflicult to see-if thecontraction be thus connected with the induced currents-that there will be no contraction in the interval between the beginning and ending of the inducing galvanic current ; for if the inducing current exhibits no variation in strength , there is no secondary current induced in this interval .
( b ) It is , perhaps , too much to expect at present a full explanation of the second period of contraction-of that period , that is , in which the contraction alternates at the beginning of the direct and at the end of the iniverse current ; but the author is disposed to think that a partial answer may be found in the collation of the three facts which follow .
The first fact is this-that the direction of the nerve-current in the sciatic and lumbar nerves of a frog ( except in those last moments of ' all in which the action of the galvanic current upon the nerve gives rise to the " voltaic alternatives " ) is inverse .
In these last moments the nerve-current in these nerves may be sometimes direct , sometimes inverse , and this change of direction may take place more than once ; but except in these last moments , the author finds the direction of the nerve-current to be invariably inverse .
Fig. 5 .
The second fact is furnished by Professor du Bois-Reymond in an experiment in which the two ends of a long portion of nerve are placed upon the cushions of two galvanometers , and the middle of the nerve is laid across the poles of a galvanic apparatuls .
Looking at the needles of the galvanometers before passing the galvaniic current , they are seen to diverge under the action of the nerve-current ; and from the direction of the divergence , it is evident that this current passes from the end to the side of the nerve .
Looking at the needles while the galvanic current is passing , one needle is founid to move still further from zero , the other is fonind to return towards zero .
Let AB be the nerve ; let the arrows a a ' and 6 6 ' be the nerve-currents included between the cushions a at and 6 6 ' of two galvanometers ; and let the arrow PN be the current between the poles PN of the galvanic apparatus ; and under this arranigement the needle of the galvanometer will recede , and show increase of curFig .
6 .
A WHIa r m ' __ rent ( + ) at the end B , where the nerve-current and galvanic current coincide in their direction ; and at the end A , where the two currents , nat-aral and artificial , do not coincide in their direction , the nieedle otf the galvanometer will go back , and show decrease of nervecurrent ( - ) .
The third fact , which has been recently fturrnished by Professor Eckardt , is to be found in an experiment which may be illustrated by means of the two following figures .
In this experiment , the nerve of a properly prepared frog 's leg is placed , one portion ( that nearest to the leg ) across the poles I I ' of an induction coil , another portion across the poles PN of a galvanic apparatus .
Having done this , the leg is first thrown into a state of tetanus by passing a series of induced currenits , and then ( the tetanizing influence still continuing in operation ) the continuous current of the galvanic apparatus is transmitted from P to N. This is the experimenit .
The result is that the tetanus ceases when , as in fig. 7 , the inverse current Fig. 7 .
I : X ' PX passes , and continues when , as in fig. 8 , the direct current passes .
Nor is this result altered by inverting the order in which the conFig .
8 .
tinuous and induced currents are made to act upon the nerve .
Thus the induced currents produce contractlon if applied after the direct continuous current , but not if applied after the inverse continuous current .
Nay , it would even seem as if the direct current is actually favourable to contraction ; for a solution of salt , which of itself is too weak to produce tetanus when applied to a nerve , will have this effect when a direct current is made to pass through another portion of the same nerve .
In performing this experiment , Professor Eckardt proceeds as follows:-First of all he tetanizes a frog 's hinder limb by placing a portion of the nerve nearest to it in a strong solution of salt ; after this he adds water until the strength of the saline solution is no longer sufficient to keep up a state of contraction in the muscles ; then , all things being as they were , he passes the direct current through a portion of nerve which is not immersed in the solution .
The result is that the tetanus immediately returns .
Now , on comparing this last fact with the two previous facts , we may have , as it seems to the author , some insight into the mode in which the galvanic current acts upon nerve in the period of alternate contractioni .
On the one hand , it is seen that tetanus is prevented or arrested by the iinverse cu'rrent ; that is to say , tetanus is prevented or arrested when ( as the first and second facts show ) the galvaniic current coinci(Ies in direction with , and imparts power to , the nervecurrent .
On the other hand , it is seen that tetanus is not prevented or arrested by the direct current ; that is to say , tetanus is not prevented or arrested when ( as the first and second facts still show ) the galvanic current differs in directioni from , and diminishes the power of , the iierve-current .
The one result is in harmony with the other ; for if contraction is counteracted by 'imparting power to the nervecurrent , it is to be expected that contraction will be favoured by detracting power from the nerve-current ; and certainly it is no matter of wonider that contraction should be favoured by detracting power from the nerve-current , for it is an established fact that rigor mortis is coincident with absolute extinction of the nerve and muscular currents , and that ordinary contraction is attended by unmistakeable weakening of these currents .
It is also an established fact , that muscular contraction is produced by the discharge of ordinary statical electricity , and not by the charging and charge .
Nay , it is not improbable that the contractions at the beginning and ending of the current , in the period of double contractioi ' , which contractions have been referred by the author to the action of induced currents , may in reality be due to the withdrawal rather than to the communication of these currents ; for these induced currents are of momentary duration , disappearing at the very instant of appearing , and exhibiting peculiarities in disappearing which connect the disappearance with the di8charye of statical electricity , rather than with the more quiet cessation of current electricity .
And if this be so-if the inverse current antagonizes and the direct current favours contraction then we may in some degree understand how it is that contraction occurs alternately at the beginning of the direct , and at the end of the inverse current .
When the inverse current passes , there is no contraction at the beginning of the current , for the influence of this current upon the -nerve-curlent is oil which antagonizes contraction ; when the inverse current ceases to pass there is contraction , for then the influence which antagonized contraction is removed .
When , on the other hand , the direct current passes , there is contraction at the beginnling of the current , for the influence of the current upon the nerve-current is one which favours contraction ; when the direct current ceases to pass , there is no contraction , for then the influence is no longer one which favours contraction .
( c ) In the third period-that of single contraction the muscular movements resulting from the aCtion of a galvanic current uponl nerve are at first sight somewhat perplexing ; but with a little thought , it may be seen that the same key will apply to their interpretation .
If , as has just been mentioned , contraction attends upon the beginning of the direct current because this current is found to favour contraction , it is not difficult to find a reason which will explain in some degree , not only why in the period of double contraction the strongest contraction is at the beginning of the direct current , but also why in the first part of the period now under consideration-that of single con traction-contraction should continue to attend upon the direct current after it has ceased to attend upon the inverse current .
Nor are the apparent irregularities in contraction , the " voltaic alternatives , " entirely inexplicable ; for it may be that these seeming irregularities-this apparent shifting of contraction from the beginning of the direct to the beginning of the inverse current , and so backwards and forwards once and again-may be nothing more than the natural consequence of the changes which at this time have taken place , and are taking place , in the direction of the nerve-current .

