I. " On the Differential Stethophone , and some new Phenomena observed by it .
" By S. SCOTT ALISON , M.D. , Assistant Physician to the Hospital for Consumption .
Communicated by Prof. TYNDALL , F.R.S. Received March 22 , 1858 .
Engaged for some years in investigations into the phenomena of audition , I have become cognizant of some facts which I believe have hitherto remained unnoticed , and which are certainly not generally known to physicists and physiologists .
The first of which I shall treat is the restriction of hearing external sounds of the same character to one ear , when the intensity is moderately , yet decidedly greater in one ear than in the other , the hearing being limited to that ear into which the sound is poured in greater intensity .
The sound is heard alternately in one ear and in the other , as it is conveyed in increasing degrees of intensity , and hearing is suspended alternately in one ear and in the other , as the sound is conveyed in lessening degrees of intensity .
Sound , as is well known , if applied to both ears in equal intensity , is heard in both ears ; but it will be found , if the intensity in respect to one ear be moderately yet decidedly increased , by bringing the sounding body nearer that ear than the other , or otherwise , as by the employment , in respect to one ear , of a damper or obstructor of sound , or in respect of the other ear , by the employment of some intensifier , or good collector or conductor of sound , the sound is heard in that ear only which is favoured and has the advantage of greater intensity .
There is little doubt that this law holds with regard to sounds passing through the air , and carried to the ear in the ordinary manner , without the aid of any mechanical contrivance , as for instance those of a watch placed in front of the face ; but as the restriction of hearing to one ear , and its suppression in the other , admit of being rendered more obvious by an apparatus that shall collect sound , prevent its diffusion through the air , and carry it direct to the ear , I propose to give the results of experiments made with an instrument which I have invented for hearing with both ears respectively , and which , as it is specially adapted for the auscultation of differences in the sounds of different parts of the chest , I have named the Differential Stethoscope , or Stethophone .
The results thus procured will be more satisfactory than those obtained by ordinary audition ; a sound will be increased as a visual object is magnified by the microscope , and as both ears are similarly dealt with , a perfect parity of conditions will hold in respect of both ears .
The differential stethophone ( see figure ) is simply an instrument consisting of two hearing-tubes , or trumpets , or stethoscopes , provided with collecting-cups and ear-knobs , one for each ear respectively .
The two tubes are , for convenience , mechanically combined , but may be said to be acoustically separate , as care is taken that the sound , once admitted into one tube , is not communicated to the other .
The tubes are composed of two parts nearly equal in length , one near the ear-knob , made of metal ( C ) ; while the other part , near the collectingcup , is made of metal wire ( B ) , to impart flexibility .
The ear-end is curved , so as to approach the ear , and is supplied with an ivoryknob ( D ) for insertion into the meatus externus .
The other end of the tube , being intended to collect sound , is supplied with a hollow cup , or receiver ( A ) made of wood , or some such material .
The mechanical construction of this instrument is borrowed from the stethoscope contrived by Dr. Caman of New York , and intended by its inventor for the purpose of hearing with both ears sounds emanating from one point , and D collected into one cup .
The two tubes are brought near together , a few inches in front of the face , by means of a connecting-bar ( E ) , but calculated to prevent the transmission of sound from one tube to the other .
This bar is supplied with ac joint , which permits the tubes to be freely moved , as is necessary in applying the knobs to the ears .
The two knobs are kept steadily in the ears by means of an elastic band ( F ) connecting the two tubes near the bar , already described .
The instrument being fitted into the ears , with the knobs directed upwards , and the cups being applied equally near , B to , or upon a sounding body , say the inflating lung , or a watch , and the conditions for collecting sound being the same , the sound is heard with both ears , as in ordinary hearing .
But if one cup be removed a little , say a half or a quarter of A an inch from the watch ( for we shall now adopt it ) , and the other cup be left upon the watch , the sound is heard with that ear only which is connected with the cup placed upon the watch , and the sensation in the hearing ear is so marked , as to leave the mind in no doubt whatever that it is through that ear we become conscious of the sound .
If the cup placed upon or nearer the watch , be removed a little further than the other cup , so as to be less favourably situated for collecting sound , say one inch from the watch , the ear connected with it becomes totally unconscious of sound , and the sensation of hearing is most unequivocally felt in the ear , and in that ear only , which but a moment before was utterly deaf to it .
If one cup be placed upon the middle of the watch , and the other on the edge , the watch sound is heard in that ear only which is connected with the cup placed upon the middle .
These experiments may be thus varied , and the result will in reality be the same , though apparently more remarkable .
The watch , being held in the air , at the distance of about an inch from one ear , is heard distinctly beating into that ear only ; but if the watch be now connected with the collecting-cup of the tube of the stethophone , inserted into the other ear , the sound , being greatly magnified , is heard in this ear , and in it only , the ear in which the sound had been primarily heard being now altogether insensible to it , or unaffected by it as far as our consciousness is concerned .
The sensation of sound is transferred from one ear to the other , although the watch is allowed to remain in close proximity to the ear that is now deaf to its sound .
A watch placed upon or inside the cheek , is heard to beat in that ear which is nearer ; but if the opposite ear be connected with it by means of one of the arms of the stethophone , or by a common flexible stethoscope , the watch sound is no longer heard in the ear nearer the watch , but in the ear further from it , which is now in reality brought into nearer connexion with it , by means of the hollow tube .
Sounds , produced in whatever material , are alike subject to this law , so far as my experiments have yet been made .
The medium in which sounds are produced does not alter this law .
A watch ticking , or a bell ringing , either in the air or under water , affords the same results .
Sounding bodies give the same results when covered with soft or hard materials .
A watch placed in one corner of a box , a few inches square , and an inch deep , is heard to beat in that arm of the stethophone only which is near it .
By this means , and by successive movements of the instrument , and by attending to degrees of intensity , the exact position of the watch may be with certainty indicated .
Or this may be effected by successively excluding those parts which fail to cause hearing in one of the ears .
The interposition of a body calculated to obstruct the sound at its entrance into one of the cups of the stethophone , causes the sound to be heard in that ear only which is connected with the cup which remains free from obstruction .
This admits of ready proof , by applying the two cups as much as possible equally on the middle of a watch about an inch above it , and by placing two fingers held together between one cup and the watch .
When this is done , the watch is heard to tick into the ear that remains free from obstruction .
The removal of an obstructing body from one cup , while it is allowed to remain in operation with the other , causes sound which had been equally heard with both ears , to be heard in that one only which is connected with the cup freed from the obstructing body .
Thus , if the fingers be interposed between the watch and the cups held equally over it , and the fingers be separated under one of the cups , so as to permit of atmospheric communication , the sound is heard in that ear only which is connected with this cup , and not at all in the other .
The effect of intensification of a sound in one ear depriving the other ear of all sensation of that sound , is interestingly shown by placing the tubes of the instrument across a block of wood with the cups hanging in the air .
While both cups are left open , and a tuning-fork in vibration is placed between the two tubes , the sound is heard with both ears ; but if one cup be closed with the hand , or with leather , and the other be left open , the sensation of sound is restricted to that ear connected with the closed cup .
The sound in the tube connected with the closed cup is rendered more intense by the closure , the escape of sound is obstructed , and reverberation takes place .
By virtue of the intensification , sensation is monopolised by one ear , and is lost in the other .
The result and the mechanical conditions are much the same as in the experiments of Mr. Wheatstone with a tuning-fork held upon the head , presently to be referred to .
It is worthy of observation , that in order that a sound previously heard with , or in both ears , as in the above experiments , may be appreciated or felt in one ear only , it is not necessary that the stethophone , or other conducting instrument , be placed in the cavity of the meatus externus .
It is sufficient for this result that the instrument be placed near the meatus , so as to give it an advantage of intensity over the opposite cavity .
When the instrument is to be held only near the meatus , care should be taken not to touch the external ear , so that there may be no conduction by that part from contact , which would vitiate the experiment .
The result is perfectly satisfactory and conclusive , although the remarkable sensation of pouring in of sound into the ear is less marked , --a fact sufficiently intelligible from the diffusion of sound which must take place outside the ear , when the extremity of the tube is held there , and is not inserted into the meatus .
It is therefore obvious that the restriction of hearing to one ear , under the conditions specified , is not due to closure of the meatus externus , the cause of the augmentation of sound in some experiments of Mr. Wheatstone , to be shortly referred to .
The remarkable phenomenon of the restriction of hearing to one ear , above described , seems not to be without important signification .
It holds apparently in virtue of a law seemingly established for the purpose of enabling man and the lower animals to determine the direction of the same sound , with more accuracy than could be done had a judgment to be formed between the iltensity of two similar sensations in the two ears respectively .
All source of error is removed by there being only one sensation , although there may be two impressions .
This law of a stronger impression in one ear , rendering us unconscious of a weaker , but similar impression in the other , has an analogue , though perhaps an imperfect one , in the sense of touch .
Very strong impressions upon one part of the body cause such acute sensations , that minor impressions of the same kind upon another part are frequently not felt , in fact , produce no sensation .
The only observations bearing upon this law which I have been able to discover , are some by Mr. Wheatstone , in a paper entitled " Experiments on Audition , " published in the ' Quarterly Journal of Science , Art , and Literature , ' vol. ii .
New Series , 1827 .
These experiments are intended to show the augmentation which the sensation of autophonic sound , and the sounds of a tuning-fork applied to the head , acquires when the ear is closed , although the perception of external sounds is diminished .
Mr. Wheatstone shows that a vocal sound is heard louder in that ear that is closed , say with the finger , than in the other .
He also shows , that the sound of a tuning-folk placed upon the head is heard louder in that ear which is closed than in the other which remains open , even though the tuning-fork may be brought nearer the open ear than the closed one .
These experiments , Mr. Wheatstone says , prove that " sounds immediately communicated to the closed meatus externus are very greatly magnified ; " and he adds , " it is an obvious inference , that if external sounds can be communicated to act on the cavity in a similar manner , they must receive a corresponding augmentation .
" This distinguished philosopher constructed the instrument named a Microphone , for the purpose of augmenting weak sounds upon this principle , i. e. the augmentation of sound by closure of the ears ; and he informs us that it " is calculated for hearing sounds when it is in immediate contact with sonorous bodies , " and that " when they are diffused by their transmission through the air , this instrument will not afford the slightest assistance .
" This instrument is spoken of in connexion with the augmentation of sound , and not in reference to the limitation of sound to one ear , or to the comparison of sensations in the two ears .
The remarkable , and , to the uninitiated mind , the wonderful fact , made known more than thirty years ago by Mr. Wheatstone , that a tuning-fork held upon the head close to an open ear is not heard in this ear , but in the opposite ear , provided it be closed with the finger , or by some other means , proved that sounds communicated to the skull were exclusively heard in the closed ear .
In the case of the tuning-fork , the fact made known by Mr. Wheatstone is undoubted .
The rationale of the phenomenon appears to be this:-The vibrations of the tuning-fork are communicated to the bones of the head , and through them to the ears , including their bones , cartilages , and contained air ; but in the case of the closed ear , the vibrations are permitted no egress or escape , as in the open ear ; reverberations take place , and the consequence is , that the sound is not duly moderated ; and in virtue of the law I have just enunciated , the sensation of sound is restricted to the closed ear .
When the tuning-fork , duly sounding , is held in the air , and not connected directly with the head , the closed ear remains insensible to it , and the sound is heard exclusively in the open ear .
Mr. Wheatstone 's interesting observation relates to a head-sound not duly moderated , as in the opposite and open ear , and virtually more intense , and comes within the general law advanced in this paper , which embraces all sounds , whether internal or external , viz. that a sound of the same character in the presence of both ears , if conveyed by any means to one ear , or to the nerve of that ear , more intensely than to the other , is heard in the more favoured ear only .
It seems necessary , in Mr. Wheatstone 's experiments , that the bones of the head shall vibrate freely ; weak sounds , such as gentle blowing , will not succeed ; and if the tuning-fork be placed immediately under the open ear , and passed upon the soft parts , little fitted for vibration , between the mastoid process of the temporal bone and the lower jaw , the sound is heard in this ear , and not in the closed ear .
It may perhaps be well , before proceeding further , to acknowledge that I am well aware it has been long known that a very loud sound conveyed into one ear will render the other ear insensible to sound of a weak or low character .
But the phenomenon which I have ventured to bring under the consideration of the Royal Society differs from this well-known and readily admitted fact in this important particular , that no very great loudness is required , and that no very great augmentation of sound in one ear over that in the other is necessary in order to restrict the sense of hearing to one ear , and to deprive the less favoured ear of the sense of hearing which it had previously enjoyed .
A moderate , yet a decided increase of intensity is all that is required to remove the sense of hearing from the less favoured ear , and to cause the more favoured organ to be alone sensible to the sound .
When sound is proceeding into the two ears , but in consequence of its reaching one ear in greater intensity than the other is heard only in one ear , the sensation of hearing in the favoured ear , though strictly limited to it , is augmented by the sound entering the less favoured ear , although it entirely fails to cause a sensation there , or to produce a consciousness of sound in that organ .
The more sound collected by the less favoured ear , as long as the amount is less than that conveyed to the other ear , the more the sensation of sound is augmented in the more favoured ear .
The intensity of sensation in the more favoured ear increases in a ratio with the increase of sound in the less favoured ear , until the intensity of sound is the same , or nearly the same , in both ears , when the sensation experienced is the ordinary one of hearing with two ears .
This fact admits of satisfactory proof in this way:-A watch is placed on a table equidistant from both ears .
The stethophone is applied to the ears ; one cup is placed within an inch of the watch , while the other is turned away from it , at the distance of some inches .
As the further cup is brought nearer and nearer the watch , the sound , always confined to the more favoured ear , is gradually and steadily intensified , until the two cups are , or are about to be , similarly placed , at which moment the sensation ceases to be restricted to one ear , and has acquired its greatest intensity .
This fact proves , that though the sensation of hearing be confined to the ear to which sound is communicated with greater intensity , we profit by the sound which is conveyed into the other ear , though failing to produce a sensation or a consciousness of sound there , by its serving to augment very materially the sensation of sound in the more favoured ear .
The less favoured ear thus augments the sensation which we experience , at the same time that it fails to interfere with the aid which the sensation confined to one ear affords us as to the direction of external sounds .
The sounds of which we have been treating as differently affecting the two ears , according to the intensity with which they are respectively communicated , are of the same character , though differing in intensity .
It is sounds of the same character only which exhibit the phenomenon of restriction in virtue of moderately different intensity .
The sounds must emanate from the same sounding body , or from bodies sounding similarly .
A little difference in character will cause the experiment of restriction to fail .
Thus , if two bells , differing considerably in character , be rung respectively in the two ears , one louder and graver than the other , the louder and graver sound does not render the other ear insensible to the weaker sound of the weaker bell .
Both ears hear perfectly , but the loud , grave sound is heard in one ear , and the weak sound is heard in the other .
If , instead of one watch , we place two together , having sounds of different character , as for instance one low and grave , and another loud and sharp , and the two arms of the stethophone be placed over them respectively , the sounds of both watches are heard , but the sound of one is heard in one ear , and the sound of the other is heard in the other ear .
The loudness of the sound in one ear does not increase the weakness of the sound in the other ; or , in other words , the intensity of the sensation produced by the weak watch in the one ear is not reduced by the sensation produced by the loud watch in the other ear .
The sound of a watch ticking continues to be heard in one ear , although a large-sized bell is made to ring at the other ; and I have not perceived that the sensation produced by the watch is at all impaired by the bell .
A whistling lung-sound heard in one ear , is not rendered less obvious by a loud blowing lung-sound in the other .
A hissing murmur at the apex of the heart conveyed into one ear , and a rasping sound at the base conveyed into the other , are both heard without alteration in the ears to which they are respectively conveyed .
By virtue of these two laws , -lst , that sounds of the same character are restricted to that ear into which they are conveyed in greater intensity , and 2nd , that sounds differing in character may be heard at the same time in the two ears respectively , even if they be made to reach the ears in different degrees of intensity , -it is possible to analyse a compound sound , or one composed of two sounds , and to divide it into its component parts .
In order to effect a division of a compound sound , it is only necessary that the two sounds of which it is composed may respectively be heard at certain points , in greater and lesser intensity , and that the respective cups of the stethophone be placed at these points .
The ear connected with the cup placed where one half of the sound is in greater intensity , hears that half sound only , and the ear connected with the cup placed where the other half of the sound is in greater intensity , hears that half sound only .
The sound is divided into two parts , and one is heard in one ear , and the other part in the other ear .
For example , a compound sound composed of the two sounds of two watches placed together upon a table , with the unassisted ear is distinctly heard in its compound state , and cannot be divided into its two constituent parts .
With the stethophone this is readily done .
One cup is placed where the sound of one watch is in greater intensity , and the other is placed where the sound of the other watch is in greater intensity , and the result is obtained of one watch only ticking in one ear , and of the other watch only ticking in the other ear .
The greater intensity of each watch-sound in one ear has rendered all hearing of it in the other ear impossible , and as each watchsound in its greater intensity is conveyed to different ears , one is heard in one ear only , while the other is heard in the other ear only .
Without the stethophone , or some such instrument , this analysis could not be made ; the ordinary stethoscope will not succeed , for wherever it is placed it conveys the mixed or compound sound to the ear .
If the naked ear be applied over or upon the watches , the same result follows ; and it is the same if instead of two arms of the stethophone we employ only one .
This remarkable separation of the components of a sound may be effected also when the sounding bodies are enclosed in a box capable of transmitting sound , or when separated from us by the interposition of materials capable of conducting sound ; and by successive trials and comparisons of intensity at different places , and by a process of exclusion of those parts which fail to cause sensation , the respective positions of two adjacent sounding bodies may be predicated .
If , for example , we have two watches , A and B , enclosed in a box , and through one cup , A , we hear watch A , and with the other cup , B , we hear watch B , we may conclude that cup A is nearer watch A than cup B is , and so on .
In the same manner we may auscultate the morbid sounds of the heart .
By cup A , placed at the apex , and cup B placed at the base , we hear separately the morbid sounds of the two parts ; for example , a blowing murmur at the apex in one ear , and a rasping murmur at the base in the other ear .
This we are enabled to do , although at any intermediate point with the single ear , either with or without a stethoscope , we hear the conjoined two sounds .
It is obvious that with the stethophone we not only succeed in separating sound , but that this instrument , or some similar contrivance , affords the only possible means of hearing , with two ears at once , sounds emanating from the same region or surface , for the sides of the head can be applied , of course , to the same sounding surface only in turn or succession .
With this instrument we , as it were , place our ears in our hands , apply them where we choose , and listen with them both at adjacent or distant points of the same surface , at one and the same instant of time .
It is not unlikely that the property which the stethophone possesses of pointing out with precision where sound is most intense , may be very usefully employed .
It seems possible that it might be turned to account in discovering the points where operations in military mining may be going on .
It is , however , in the practice of medicine only that the differential stethophone has been hitherto applied , and it may be here permitted to me to point to some of the chief purposes for which it is adapted , and for which it has been employed .
In respect to respiration , we may compare at once , and without the inconvenience of moving the head , or the ordinary stethoscope , from place to place , the extent of the respiratory sounds in different parts , so that a very minute difference , an excess in one part or a deficiency in another , may with certainty be discovered .
Differences in quality , such as softness or roughness , are readily recognized .
The increased length and loudness in one part is accurately contrasted with the healthy conditions of another part .
In cases where the inspiration has been very full in one place , in order to compensate for deficiency in another place , and where the expiration was long and coarse in the deficient part , I have heard the inspiratory sound only in one ear , and the expiratory sound in the other ear .
The sounds were respectively restricted to the two parts , and they alternated in a very marked manner .
One part has remained silent while the other has been heard to sound , and this has been silenced when the other has awoke the ear .
The diagram represents the sounds occurring alternately in two sides of the chest in a consumptive patient .
The dark spots represent the sounds .
Healthy .
Unhealthy .
Right side of chest .
Left side of chest .
In Inspir .
1.pi .
1 Expir .
1 .
iI Expir .
1 .
Inspir .
2 .
| Inspir .
2 .
Expir .
2 .
ll Expir .
2 .
The influence which the acts of respiration exert in heightening and lowering the murmurs in veins , say of the neck , in persons affected with a thin and watery condition of blood , is well exhibited by placing one arm of the stethophone on the chest and the other upon the veins .
When the respiration in two parts is alike in character , but decidedly louder in one part than in another , the sound in the weak side is lost .
While this loss proves , in a very emphatic manner , the important fact of deficiency , it of course for the time deprives us of the opportunity of judging of the quality of the deficient inspiration ; but this is readily obviated by removing the cup of the instrument from the full respiring part , and then the deficient respiration is immediately heard through the other cup .
Thus while the two sounds , being of like character , and one being more intense than the other , can be heard only in one ear at the same time , an admirable opportunity is obtained for contrasting the extent , and some of the qualities , of the sounds of the two parts , by placing the cups alternately and rapidly upon the two spots respectively .
Vocal extussive resonance in two parts of the thorax , is well contrasted with the two tubes employed at once , or in immediate succession .
The sounds of the two sides of the heart , and of the valves of the two great arteries proceeding from that organ , are , by means of the stethophone , very advantageously dealt with .
By placing it over the two sides of the heart , or the origin of the two arteries , we ascertain the character and loudness of the sounds of these parts .
One cup being placed over the aorta , and the other over the pulmonary artery , if the sounds they collect differ in character , one sound is heard in one ear , and another in the other ear .
We may have at the same moment an aortic murmur and a healthy pulmonary artery sound , one sound in one ear , and another sound in the other ear .
But when it is desired to listen to each sound singly and in succession , the instrument will still be available , for the cups may be applied singly and in succession , thus affording ample means for contrast .
In cases of disordered heart , in which it is desired to discover whether the sounds of the two sides of the heart are synchronous , the stethophone affords the most satisfactory mode of investigating the fact .
With it , we virtually place our two ears over the two sides of the heart ; and if one side sounds at all after the other , the fact is made known , and the end of one sound and the beginning of another are clearly and distinctly defined .
With the ordinary stethoscope this is impossible ; for where one sound is heard , the other may be inaudible , and long before the head or stethoscope can possibly be adjusted at another part , the second sound has taken place , and is long since over .
In conclusion , I may perhaps be permitted to say , that the differential stethophone proves a great auxiliary in examining the heart with the cardioscope or sphygmoscope , which I had the honour to exhibit to this Society two years ago .
While the latter instrument exhibits the movements of the heart , the stethophone informs us of their sounds , in a more complete manner than can be otherwise effected ; and from the stethophone permitting of auscultating two parts at once , and with the eyes directed to the chest , the relation of the movements and of the sounds , normal or abnormal , of this most important organ is very fully and satisfactorily made out .
POSTSCRIPT .
Received April 22 , 1858 .
In connexion with that part of my paper which treats of the restriction of hearing to the closed ear , I desire to add the fact which I have ascertained within the last few days , that if one ear be closed wholly or partially at its external part , i. e. at the meatus externus , by disease or by congenital malformation , while the other ear is healthy , the sound of the tuning-fork , applied to any part of the head , is heard only in the closed ear .
This fact holds , although the closed ear is totally unaffected by sounds conveyed through the external air .
I have further to mention the fact , that all persons , deaf in one ear , whom I have lately examined , with one exception , hear the sound of the tuning-fork applied to the head in that ear only that is deaf to external sounds .
A man who has been totally deaf in one ear for thirty years , in consequence of a violent blow upon the head , had the tuning-fork applied over the forehead .
He started , and said that he heard only in the ear which had been deaf during that long course of time .
In such cases I have been disposed to believe that , amidst other lesions of the organ of hearing , there may be present an obstruction or closure , that a reverberation takes place , and that thus a restriction of hearing is secured for the diseased organ .

