IV .
Part of a Letter from Sir Charles Holt .
to the Publisher , concerning a Child who had its Intestines , Mesentery , &amp;c. in the Cavity of the Thorax , and a further account of the person mentioned to have swallowed Stones , in No 253.of these Transactions .
SOmetime since I was desired by a Friend of mine to be present at the opening of a Child of his , of about 2 months old , which dyed ( as he told me ) after an unusual , and extraordinary manner .
I found at the house two Learned Gentlemen and very good Anatomists , invited on the same occasion .
We enquired into the Circumstances of the Childs Sickness and Death , and from the Women received the following account .
` That the Child was uneasy and restless from its ` Birth , and constantly laboured under a difficulty of ` Breathing .
` That its Illness was like nothing they had seen in ` other Children ; neither could they perceive it relieved ` by any thing administred to it , tho by the advice of a ` Learned Physician ; but it lay groaning and pining till ` it dyed .
` That they had always observed , when the Child ` was undressed an odd sort of working in its Breast , and ` could perceive a Crawling round the Ribs and Breast , ` on both sides , as if a Knot of small Eels , or large ` Earth-worms had been penned up within the Cavity .
This Relation seemed strange , but upon the dissection we found sufficient reason to believe the account .
When we had opened the Abdomen there appeared none of the Viscera belonging to the Belly , except the Liver , the Kidneys , Vesica Urinaria , and Intestinum Rectum .
We at first imagined that the other Intestines might be covered by the Liver , which , tho it be commonly large in Children , in this exceeded the usual size ; but upon turning of it up towards the Diaphragm , we only found under its concave part , the Stomach , not lying in its natural posture , for the Pylorus was drawn by the Duodenum cross the Vertebrae of the Back towards the Fundus Ventriculi , and part of the Duodenum passed thro a Foramen in the Diaphragm , placed on the Left side of that thro which the Gula descends , which occasioned the Pylorus to lye almost Sub Fundo Ventriculi .
We then resolved to trace the Rectum from the Anus upward , not doubting but that it would lead us to the Mesentery and Intestines .
The Rectum , we found , lay in an oblique line from the Anus to this new Foramen , and was received into it with a Portion of the Duodenum .
This Foramen seemed to be formed by Nature , a primo Ortu , for transmitting those Guts into the Thorax ; for had it been made by any Force ; its sides would have appeared wounded , or lacerated ; but on the contrary , round this Orifice there was a smooth Verge , as is seen in Foramine Venae Cavae pervio , er that , per quod Gula descendit .
A Sketch of the Diaphragm with its Perforations I have here attempted , and wish I were able to send you a Draught of the Middle Region ( which indeed was very surprising ) it might render this account more intelligible than my description can pretend to .
When we took off the Sternum , we saw the Mesentery cum adjunctis Intestinis in the Cavity of the Thorax , and lying upon the Heart and Lungs .
There was no Omentum spread over the Intestines ; that , as I rememR rrrrr2 ber , ber , was wholly missing , as was likewise the Mediastinum .
Most part of the Duodenum lay in the Thorax , and all the rest of the Guts , except the Rectum , which ( as is already related ) ascended in an oblique line from the Anus , and its upper end was inserted into this Orifice .
After we had some time admired this new Situation of the Intestines and Mesentery , we began to enquire how this Child , according to the Common Notions of Nutrition , could be nourished ?
That it was Nourished seems plain , because it daily received Food , and regularly voided Excrement , as we are assured by those who attended upon it .
For salving this Quaere , we proposed to enquire , what commnnication there was between that Gland , or Glands , in the middle of the Mesentery ( commonly called Pancreas Asellii ) and the Receptaculum Chyli placed between the Internal Lumbar Muscles , called Psoas ; but upon the most accurate Search we were capable of making , there was none to be found ; for the whole Meseraick Membrane , and Intestines , lay perfectly loose upon the Heart and Lungs , absolutely disengaged from any manner of Communication with any other part .
That Vermicular Motion , which showed itself on the Ribs and Breast , we ascribed to the Peristaltick Motion of the Guts ; and the Dyspnaea , we thought , might be occasioned by Pressure made on the Lungs by the Intestines and Mesentery , which likewise so filled the Thorax , that there wanted room for the Lobes of the Lungs to move freely in , and by consequence Inspiration , and Expiration would be performed with Difficulty .
See the figure where a shows the Foramen thro which the Vena Cava passes .
b the Foramen thro which the Gula deseends .
c the Foramen thro which part of the Rectum and Duodenum went into the Thorax .
Gobsill ( whose case you were pleased to print in the Transact. for June 1699 .
Number 253 .
) came lately to me , and told me the Stones grew very troublesome to him ; that he had of late vomited up two of them , which he showed me , and I caused them to be weighed .
One weighed 3ii and the other 3j .
~ .
He complains , that his Strength is of late much impaired ; that he voids great quantities of Blood by Stool , which keeps him very weak .
His Stomach is much decayed , and will retain but few things .
His hands are palsied ; always extreme cold , and his Fingers contracted ; he is not able to open them without help , or keep them so , unless by Force .
His Legs are very likely in a small time to be as useless to him as his Hands , for , he says , they begin to fail him , and in the same manner ; grow cold , and have little sensation in them .
But the most remarkable of all his complaints , was , a new Progress the Stones had either found or made .
Formerly at night in bed , they used to get up ( as he expressed it ) to his Heart , and upon turning to his Knees , or standing upright on his Feet , they would drop one by one so distinctly , that they might be counted , and in this state they always arose straight up on the right side of his Breast ; but now they rise obliquely , and get under his right Arm , inclining towards the Scapula , and when they are in this place , by giving him a Blow with the Fist on his right Shoulder , they will all fall down in a Lump together , and may very plainly be heard to clash on the other Stones , which lye as they did formerly just above the Os Pubis .
After he had told me this Story , I made the experiment before Dr Fowke and Dr Davies , and the matter of fact proved true as he related it .
The poor Fellow concluded , that he thought he could not live long , and desired , when he dyed , that I would take care his body might be opened .
I heartily wish some ingenious Anatomist were appointed for this service , when it shall happen ; for this case , if rightly enquired into , may be of use and satisfaction to the curious .

