542 Drs. T. L. Brunton and A. Macfadyen .
" The Ferment-action of Bacteria .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and A. Maofadyen , M.D. , B.Sc. Received March 23 , \#151 ; Read April 4 , 1889 .
In the course of the research the following micro-organisms were used:\#151 ; 1 .
Koch 's comma spirillum ( Fliigge , 'Die Mikro-organismen , ' Leipzig , 1886 , p. 334 ) .
2 .
Finkler 's comma spirillum ( Fliigge , ' Die Mikro-organismen , ' Leipzig , 1886 , p. 382 ) .
3 .
A putrefactive micrococcus .
4 .
Scurf bacillus ( Klein ) .
5 .
A bacillus isolated from milk by Dr. Klein , which for convenience we may call the " Welford Bacillus .
" All of these liquefy gelatine , the two last most energetically .
Anthrax was not used , on account of the resistance of its spores and the consequent difficulty of completely sterilising the culture media .
The experiments were made in each case with pure cultures .
The first question which we tried to solve was , What is the nature of the substance by which bacteria liquefy gelatine P Is it an enzyme ?
There are two ways in which they might do this .
They might secrete some fluid which would dissolve the gelatine mechanically , without altering it chemically , as saliva dissolves sugar in the mouth ; or they might do it by secreting a specific enzyme , which would dissolve the gelatine by altering it chemically , as the ptyalin of the saliva effects the solution of starch .
If the solution were effected in the first way by the secretion of a mere solvent , we should expect that when the microbes were removed or destroyed , either by heat or chemical means , the portion of the medium already dissolved would not have any extensive action on fresh media .
But if it had any such solvent action , it would probably continue after the solution had been heated to a temperature sufficient to destroy the action of an enzyme .
If , on the other hand , the microbes liquefied the media by secreting an enzyme , we should expect that the liquefied portion would probably dissolve a considerable amount of new medium wrhen added to it , but that its solvent action would be arrested by exposure to a temperature sufficient to inhibit enzyme action .
The culture medium was made by adding to meat broth : gelatine , 10 per cent. ; peptone , 1 per cent. ; and sodic chloride , 0'5 per cent. The reaction was rendered faintly alkaline with carbonate of soda .
In all the experiments Koch 's methods to ensure sterile media and pure cultures were followed out .
The Ferment-action of Bacteria .
64 3 Tubes of 10 per cent , gelatine were inoculated with the five microbes , and placed in the incubator at 37 ' C. , with the exception of the putrefactive micrococcus , which was kept at 22 ' C. When liquefaction was complete the fluid was filtered into sterile tubes , the bacterial deposit being washed with a small quantity of sterile distilled water .
Of the filtrate , one , three , and five drops were added respectively to fresh gelatine , and the tubes placed in the incubators as before .
The gelatine liquefied , and in all cases bacteria were present .
This liquefied gelatine was in its turn taken and subjected to a temperature of 50 ' C. for one hour .
Then one , three , and five drops were added to fresh gelatine .
After incubating , some of the cholera comma tubes did not liquefy , but in all cases where liquefaction took place it wras due to the active bacteria , as proved by their growth on control plates .
The control plates were made by adding a few drops of the liquefied gelatine to fresh gelatine , and pouring it out in a sterile glass dish .
After incubating at 22 ' C. , the gelatine was examined microscopically , and the presence or absence of bacterial colonies noted .
The liquefied gelatine was next subjected to a temperature of 100 ' C. for fifteen minutes .
The same number of drops were added to gelatine .
This fresh gelatine did not liquefy .
Finally , 5 c.c. were added to fresh gelatine , but still it did not liquefy .
The control plates showed no colonies .
We therefore conclude that exposure to a temperature of ( I ) 100 ' C. destroys\#151 ; ( a. ) The bacteria .
( 6 .
) The liquefying power of the fluid .
( II ) 60 ' C. does neither .
It was not deemed advisable to continue the sterilisation too long , having regard to the injurious action of heat on soluble ferments .
It was next necessary to determine the temperatures between 50 ' C. and 100 ' C. , which would be sufficient to kill the bacteria without rendering any ferment which might exist inactive .
A series of experiments led to the following results:\#151 ; 60 ' C. for half an hour killed Koch 's and Finkler 's spirillum .
75 ' C. for fifteen minutes , on two successive days , killed the scurf and " Welford " bacilli .
70 ' C. for fifteen minutes , on two successive days , destroyed the putrefactive micrococcus .
Having established these facts , a series of cultures at 37 ' C. were made in small glass flasks , each containing about 100 c.c. of 10 per cent , gelatine .
The liquefied gelatine was filtered , and the deposit washed with sterile distilled water .
vol. xlvi .
2 o Drs. T. L. Brunton and A. Macfadyen .
These filtrates from the five series of cultures were sterilised as described above .
Then 5\#151 ; 10 c.c. of each were added to 10 per cent , gelatine ( 20 c.c. ) and kept at 37 ' C. , as well as control tubes of sterile gelatine .
On the third day the tubes were removed from the incubator and placed in ice-cold water .
Results:\#151 ; Scurf bacillus f The gelatine does not stiffen , but remains Welford bacillus ( _ liquid .
Koch 's spirillum f The gelatine is semi-liquid , and does not Tinkler 's spirillum [ completely re-gelatinise .
Putrefactive micrococcus 1 The gelatine stiftens .
Control gelatine i Control plates .
No bacteria .
Kept at the ordinary room temperature , these phenomena persisted , the liquid gelatine remaining liquid , and the solid gelatine not lique-fying .
Here , then , we have complete liquefaction of the gelatine produced in the first two cases , partial liquefaction in the next two , and no effect in the last .
That this liquefaction was brought about without the presence of active bacteria is proved by the fact that control plates inoculated from the liquefied gelatine remained sterile .
The complete liquefaction was produced by the sterile fluid from the microbes which were more active liquefiers of gelatine than the others .
In the case of the two comma spirilla the enzyme action in gelatine was evidently more feeble .
The negative result with the putrefactive micrococcus , and also the fact that tubes inoculated from it , and kept at the optimum temperature of 22 ' 0 .
, also gave negative results , were probably due to the preliminary sterilisation having destroyed both the microbes and any enzyme which they might have formed .
These introductory experiments led to the following conclusions : 1 .
100 ' C. destroyed both the bacteria and the liquefying power .
2 .
50 ' destroyed neither the bacteria nor the liquefying power .
3 .
Temperatures between 60 ' and 75 ' C. destroyed the bacteria , but not the liquefying power in four cases .
4 " The liquefied gelatine treated as under 3 , and added to fresh gelatine , liquefied it , although active bacteria were proved to be absent .
5 .
The liquefaction must , we think , be due to a soluble enzyme , inasmuch as liquefaction still took place after the elimination of the microbes , while it was prevented by exposure to such a temperature as would destroy the activity of an enzyme but would not be likely to affect the action of a simple solvent .
The Ferment-action of Bacteria .
Having regard to the fact that the peptonising action in gelatine was slow , and in two cases partial , it was next sought to determine whether more active liquefaction of the gelatine could be obtained by growing the microbes in some other albumenoid soil .
Two culture fluids were made with meat broth as follows :\#151 ; A. Meat broth\#151 ; B. Meat broth\#151 ; Peptone , 1 per cent. NaCl 0'5 per cent. NaCl 0*5 " Both were rendered faintly alkaline with the carbonate of soda .
The bacteria grew well in both of these media , and so rapidly and abundantly in B. that further experiments were made with it only , i.e. , without peptones .
For each culture , 100 c.c. meat broth were used .
After inoculation and four days ' incubation at 37 ' C. , the broth was filtered , and the bacterial deposit washed with sterile distilled water .
It was then sterilised as already described , and 10 c.c. added to tubes of 10 per cent , gelatine .
These tubes were placed in the incubator , as well as control tubes of sterile gelatine .
When taken out , and placed in ice-cold water , the following results were obtained :\#151 ; | No liquefaction .
( T. ) After 24 hours : Scurf bacillus 1 j . .
, Welford bacillus J q ' Koch 's spirillum ] 0 ... .
, Finkler 's spirillum jSemi-1 , qmd-Putrefactive micrococcus Control gelatine Control plates .
No colonies .
( 2 .
) After 48 hours : Koch 's spirillum 1 , Finkler 's spirillum / q ' Putrefactive micrococcus 1 -\#187 ; T . .
, .
" .
, .
, .
\gt ; JN o liquefaction .
Control gelatine J Control plates .
No growth .
From these experiments it will be seen that the enzyme developed in meat broth is more active than that formed in gelatine .
In twenty-four hours the gelatine was liquefied by the scurf and Welford bacilli ; in forty-eight hours by Koch 's and Finkler 's comma spirilla .
Again the putrefactive micrococcus gave negative results .
Conclusions :\#151 ; 1 .
An enzyme is formed in meat broth which liquefies gelatine , Drs. T. L. Brunton and A. Macfadyen .
and does so more surely and quickly than the enzyme formed in gelatine itself .
2 .
The liquefaction is produced by a soluble ferment , since its action can be demonstrated apart from the microbes which produce it .
Instead of using heat sterilisation some experiments were made with menthol and thymol .
It was found that when these substances were added in amounts sufficient to prevent the growth of the bacteria\#151 ; the ferment action was likewise inhibited .
The presence of a soluble ferment being demonstrated , can we isolate it P ( 1 .
) From gelatine .
( 2 .
) From meat broth .
Flasks containing 250 c.c. of 10 per cent , gelatine were inoculated with the five microbes .
They were left in the incubator at 47 C. , ( putrefactive micrococcus , 32 ' C. ) , till liquefaction was complete .
The liquefied gelatine was treated with absolute alcohol and filtered .
The precipitate was extracted with glycerine , and finally reprecipitated with alcohol .
The precipitate , after drying in a sterilised flask , was taken up in a small quantity of sterile distilled water , and allowed to stand over night .
About 5 c.c. were then added to 10 per cent , gelatine , and incubated at 37 ' 0 .
Results.\#151 ; Negative .
No liquefaction was produced .
In each case 250 c.c. were treated in a similar manner\#151 ; with alcohol and glycerine , and the precipitate and sterile distilled water added to 10 per cent , gelatine .
Results :\#151 ; Koch 's spirillum III .
IV .
( 1 .
) From Gelatine Cultures .
( 2 .
) Meat Broth Cultures .
Finkler 's spirillum Putrefactive micrococcus Scurf bacillus Welford bacillus Control plates .
No colonies .
Concluding that the prolonged method of extraction had weakened The Ferment-action of , 547 the action of the enzyme , a modification of the process was next made in the following manner500 c.c. of meat broth were inoculated with the microbes , and left in the incubator for seven days .
The precipitate , with an excess of alcohol , was allowed to stand overnight , and , after drying , was dissolved in sterile distilled water , and then reprecipitated by alcohol .
This precipitate was dried and taken up in distilled water .
The next day about 20 c.c. were added to 100 c.c. of a 5 per cent , gelatine , and placed in the incubator at 37 ' C. Results after four days :\#151 ; The only positive results were obtained with the scurf bacillus and the Welford bacillus .
In these cases the gelatine remained liquid , while the control gelatine resolidified .
The control plates gave no colonies .
Conclusion.\#151 ; The bacteria do form a soluble enzyme which can be isolated , and its action demonstrated on albumenoid gelatine .
V. Are the microbes which liquefy gelatine capable of exerting a like .action on other proteid bodies ?
To test this , experiments were made with\#151 ; ( a. ) Egg-albumen .
( b. ) Fibrin .
In the first place , it was necessary to find out what resulted from the direct action of the microbes .
Faintly alkaline meat broth , as developing the most active enzyme , was used .
( a. ) Egg Albumen .
To flasks containing 100 c.c. of meat broth were added small pieces of coagulated egg albumen .
The flasks were then sterilised and moculated with Koch 's spirillum , Finkler 's spirillum , the scurf and Welford bacilli .
They were then placed in the incubator at 37 ' C. Results:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Scurf bacillus .
Welford bacillus :\#151 ; 1st day .
No marked change .
2nd day .
Albumen broken up into small fine flocculent fragments .
3rd day .
Disintegration almost complete , 4th day .
Disintegration complete .
2 o 2 Divs .
T. L. Brunton and A. Macfadyen .
( 2 .
) Koch 's spirillum .
Finkler 's spirillum:\#151 ; 1st day .
No marked change .
2nd day .
Translucent .
3rd day .
Thinned and transparent .
5th day .
Disintegration .
The bacteria are therefore able , by means of their peptonising action , to disintegrate egg albumen .
( b. ) Fibrin .
To 100 c.c. of the meat broth small pieces of boiled fibrin were added , and after sterilisation the flasks were inoculated with the same microbes , then placed in the incubator at 37 ' C. Results:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Scurf bacillus .
Welford bacillus .
1st day .
No marked change .
2nd day .
Fibrin eroded .
3rd day .
Breaking up .
4th day .
Disintegration complete .
5th day .
Fluid has become turbid .
( 2 .
) Koch 's spirillum .
Finkler 's spirillum :\#151 ; 1st day .
No change .
2nd day .
Slight erosion .
3rd day .
Frayed appearance .
4th day .
Commencing to break up .
5th day .
Disintegrated .
6th day .
Turbidity .
Here again we have a marked disintegrating action on fibrin .
Conclusion.\#151 ; The bacteria exert a disintegrating action on egg albumen and fibrin , as well as on gelatine .
VI .
Can we demonstrate the action of the enzyme on proteid bodies such as egg albumen and fibrin , in the same way that its action was demonstrated on gelatine F The alcoholic precipitate from 500 c.c. of the meat broth culture was dried at 35 ' C. , and then dissolved in sterile distilled water .
II was then reprecipitated by alcohol and filtered .
This precipitate was dried in sterile plugged flasks , and to it were added 50 c.c. of sterile The Ferment-action .
549 distilled water , and 5 c.c. of a \per cent , chloroform water .
Carbonate of soda was finally added to render the fluid faintly alkaline .
In each flask was placed a small piece of boiled fibrin .
After four days in the incubator they were taken out and examined :\#151 ; A. From each , gelatine plate cultures were made .
B. The appearance of the fibrin was noted .
C. After filtration the filtrate was tested for digestive products .
A. Some of the plates showed bacteria .
The flasks from which these had been made were rejected ; only those w^ere used which had remained sterile .
B. In none did the fibrin break up and disappear .
But it became thinned and frayed at the edges .
This was most marked with the scurf and Welford bacilli .
C. The filtrate was examined for soluble products : \#151 ; On neutralising with dilute hydrochloric acid a precipitate appeared .
This was filtered oft* and the filtrate tested for peptones .
A solution of caustic soda was added , and then a highly dilute solution of cupric sulphate was filtered down the side of the test tube .
At the line of demarcation the rose-coloured peptone reaction was strongly marked .
The simple boiled solution of the ferment only gave the faintest peptone reaction .
These results were obtained with the scurf and Welford bacilli , and Koch 's and Finkler 's spirillum .
To sum up:\#151 ; 1 .
The fibrin was visibly affected .
2 .
Neutralisation produced a precipitate .
3 .
The peptone reaction was very distinct .
The enzyme therefore , apart from the bacteria , can form soluble products from fibrin , and amongst these peptones .
VII .
Are the microbes capable of forming a diastatic , as well as a pep-tonising ferment ?
A. Scurf bacillus .
Welford bacillus :\#151 ; Starch was heated with water so as to form a thin paste .
To this was added sodic chloride ( 0'5 per cent. ) .
About 100 c.c. were placed in each flask , which was then plugged with cotton wool and sterilised .
After inoculation they were placed in the incubator ( 37 ' C. ) along with flasks of sterile starch paste .
Flasks were opened on successive days and examined:\#151 ; 550 Drs. T. L. Brunton and A. Macfadyen .
2nd day .
3rd day .
5th day .
6th day .
Starch has lost its opalescence .
Iodine gives a blue colour .
I- dine gives a red colour .
No reaction with iodine .
Was tested for a reducing sugar .
The reactions were as follows :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Iodine.\#151 ; No reaction .
( 2 .
) Caustic soda.\#151 ; On gently boiling fluid becomes yellow .
( 3 .
) Cupric sulphate and caustic soda.\#151 ; A yellow precipitate on boiling .
( 4 .
) Fehling 's reagent.\#151 ; A red precipitate .
( 5 .
) Barfoed 's reagent.\#151 ; No reaction on gently heating .
( Barfoed 's Solution:\#151 ; One part of neutral acetate of copper dissolved in 15 parts of water , and then to 200 c.c. , 5* c.c. of acetic acid ( 38 per cent. ) added .
) The control starch gave blue colour with iodine , but none of the above reactions .
B. Putrefactive micrococcus\#151 ; Results were negative .
C. Koch 's spirillum .
Tinkler 's spirillum:\#151 ; The same starch solution was used , but a few drops of meat broth were added in each case .
The usual control experiments were made :\#151 ; 3rd day .
Starch has lost its opalescence .
Iodine strikes a blue colour .
4th day .
Iodine gives a violet colour .
5th day .
Iodine gives red rt action .
7th day .
Iodine.\#151 ; Red .
Caustic soda.\#151 ; Yellow on boiling .
Cupric sulphate and caustic soda.\#151 ; No reduction .
Fehling 's solution.\#151 ; No reduction .
On pievious addition of H2S04 a slight reduction .
Barfoed 's reagent.\#151 ; No reduction .
Control starch.\#151 ; Iodine strikes blue .
From these experiments the following conclusions may be drawn:\#151 ; 1 .
The putrefactive micrococcus did not grow on the carbohydrate soil , and so we are left in doubt as to its diastatic action .
2 .
The scurf bacillus and Wei ford bacillus were both capable of cultivation , and evinced a marked diastatic action , in addition to their peptonising power .
The failure of the iodine test , and the The Ferment-action Bacteria .
precipitates obtained with Fehling , \amp ; c. , indicate the presence of a reducing sugar .
The failure with Barfoed 's reagent suggests that the sugar is in great part , at any rate , maltose .
3 .
With regard to Koch 's spirillum and Finkler 's , though they evinced a diastatic action , it was feebler than in the former case , only traces of a reducing sugar being detected after the addition of sulphuric acid .
The red and violet coloration with iodine points to the formation of dextrin ( erythro- and achroo-dextrin ) .
At any rate , in the scurf and Welford bacilli we have two microbes which evince a marked diastatic action ; and a demonstration of the fact that the same germ can produce both a diastatic and a peptonising ferment .
VIII .
Can we demonstrate the action of the diastatic enzyme apart from the bacteria ?
Starch cultures of the scurf bacillus and the Welford bacillus ( two days ' growth ) were treated with chloroform water ( 1 per cent. ) till they became sterile .
The fluid was then added to fresh starch , and incubated at 37 ' C. In eight to ten days the iodine reaction had disappeared .
On boiling with caustic soda the fluid became yellow .
Fehling 's solution was reduced .
The fluid lost its opalescence .
Control plates\#151 ; no growth .
These experiments point strongly to the existence of a diastatic enzyme capable of isolation , and of acting apart from the bacteria .
IX .
That the peptonising enzyme bears the closest analogy to the pancreatic ferment will be seen from the following experiments .
Sterile meat broth , in which Finkler 's spirillum and the Welford bacillus had been cultivated , was added to 10 per cent , gelatine tubes of differing reaction :\#151 ; Gelatine .
Results .
A. Acidified with dilute hydrochloric acid. .
No liquefaction .
B. Alkaline by adding sodic carbonate ... .
Liquefied .
C. Neutral ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Liquefied .
D. Boiled after adding the ferment ... ... ... ... No liquefaction .
X. The digestive action of the microbes was tested on several other bodies .
Drs. T. L. Brunton and A. Macfadyen .
1 .
Fats.\#151 ; Alkaline meat broth and olive oil , 2 per cent. The results were negative .
Experiments which were made by Manfredi* tend to show that fat-containing media impair the vegetative energy of bacteria .
2 .
Dextrose.\#151 ; The culture fluid was prepared as follows :\#151 ; Dextrose ... ... ... ... 2 per cent. Peptone ... ... ... . .
1 " Sodic chloride ... .
0'5 " Reaction ... ... ... .
Neutral .
After sterilisation , the flasks were inoculated with the scurf bacillus and Welford bacillus .
Incubated at 37 ' C. They were examined on the fourth day .
Febling 's solution was no longer reduced .
The fluid gave a marked acid reaction .
The control solution reduced Fehling 's solution .
Reaction was unchanged .
3 .
Cane-sugar.\#151 ; Cane-sugar , 2 per cent. Peptone , 1 per cent. NaCl , 0'5 per cent. Reaction , neutral .
Inoculated with scurf bacillus and Welford bacillus , and incubated at 37 ' C. The results were negative .
No reducing sugar detected .
Muscle.\#151 ; Alkaline meat broth cultures were used .
Inoculated with Finkler 's spirillum and Wblford bacillus .
With the Welford bacillus a marked effect\#151 ; the muscular tissue becomes disintegrated , and the striae indistinct .
These experiments , though incomplete in themselves , are sufficient to show that the bacteria which liquefy gelatine and diastase starch , can also exert a digestive influence on dextrose and muscle .
The exact determination of the products of this action in the case of these and some other organic bodies must be reserved for further investigation .
To sum up briefly the results of this inquiry:\#151 ; 1 .
The bacteria which liquefy gelatine do so by means of a soluble enzyme .
2 .
This enzyme can be isolated , and its peptonising action demonstrated apart from the microbes which produce it .
3 .
The most active enzyme is that formed in meat broth .
4 .
Acidity hinders , alkalinity favours its action .
5 .
The bacteria which form a peptonising enzyme on proteid soil can also produce a diastatic enzyme on carbohydrate soil .
* ' Accademia dei Lined , Rendiconti , ' vol. 3 , sem .
1 , 1887 , p. 535 .
The Ferment-action of Bacteria .
553 6 .
The diastatic enzyme is not so readily separated from the microbes which produce it , but where that has been accomplished its action on starch can still be demonstrated .
7 .
The diastatic enzyme has no effect on gelatine , and vice versa .
8 .
The bacteria are capable of evincing an adaptiveness to the soil in which they grow .
9 .
The microbes are capable of digesting other similar bodies such as dextrose and muscle .
10 .
Fatty matter was not affected .

