Electrification of Air , Vapour of Water , and other Gases .
483 7 .
It* thin metal screens are used to sift the cathode rays the luminescent phenomena change .
The rays o\#163 ; least penetrating power appear to be most susceptible to magnetic and electrostatic forces .
The various constituents of a heterogeneous cathode beam are emitted in various proportions at different degrees of exhaustion .
In the cathode rays emitted at higher degrees of exhaustion there is a greater proportion of the less-deflectable rays .
The least-deflectable rays are those which most readily penetrate through a perforated screen when that screen is itself made cathodic .
When ordinary cathode rays fall upon a perforated screen which is itself made cathodic , or are attempted to be passed through a tubular cathode , there emerge beyond the screen or tube some rays , here termed dia-cathodic rays , which differ from the ortho-cathodic , and also from the para-cathodic rays .
These dia-cathodic rays are not themselves directly deflected by a magnet .
They show themselves as a pale blue cone or streak .
Where they fall on the glass they do not excite the ordinary fluorescence of the glass .
The dia-cathodic rays excite , however , a different or second kind of fluorescence ; the tint in the case of soda-glass being a dark orange .
Intervening objects in the beam or cone of dia-cathodic rays cast shadows .
The orange fluorescence evoked on soda-glass by the dia-cathodic rays shows in the spectroscope the D lines of sodium only .
The shadows cast by dia-cathodic rays are not deflected by the magnet , nor do they change their size when the object is electrified .
" Electrification of Air , of Vapour of Water , and of other Gases .
" By Lord Kelvin , G.C.V.O. , F.R.S. , Magnus Maclean , D.Sc .
, F.R.S.E. , and Alexander Galt , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. Received and Read June 17 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) S 1 .
In this paper the authors describe a long series of experiments on the electrification of air and other gases with which they have been occupied from May , 1894 , up to the present time ( June , 1897 ) .
Some results of earlier experiments , and of preliminary efforts to find convenient methods of investigation , have from time to time been communicated to the Royal Society , the British Association .
and the Glasgow Philosophical Society.* * " On the Electrification of Air , " by Lord Kelvin and Magnus Maclean , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' May 31 , 1894 , and ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1894 ; " Preliminary Experiments to find if Subtraction of Water from Air electrifies it , " by Lord Kelvin , Magnus Maclean , and Alexander Galt , * Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1894 , p. 554 ; " Electrification of Air and other Gases by bubbling through Water and other Liquids , " by Lord Kelvin , Magnus Maclean , and Alexander Galt , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' February , 1895 ; 484 Electrification of Air , Vapour of and other Gases .
S 2 .
The method for testing the electrification of air which was used in their earliest experiments was an application of the water-dropper , * long well known in the ordinary observation of atmospheric electricity .
Its use by Maclean and Gotof in 1890 led to an interesting discovery , that air in an enclosed vessel , previously non-electrified , becomes electrified by a jet of water falling through it .
An investigation of properties of matter concerned in this effect , related as it is to the " development of electricity in the breaking up of a liquid into drops " which had been discovered by Holmgren as early as 187p , and to the later investigations and discoveries described by Lenard , S in his paper on the " Electricity of Waterfalls , " forms the subject of SS 25\#151 ; 37 of the present communication .
S 3 .
The electrification of air by drops of water , breaking from a jet in it , or falling through it , or striking on the ground , or on water , or on metal below it , produces absolutely no practical disturbance of the electric potential measured by the water-dropper in its use for the observation of open air atmospheric electricity : but constitutes a serious objection to its application for investigating atmospheric electricity within doors , unless in a very large room or hall , and renders it altogether unsuitable for experimental investigations , such as those described in the present paper .
S 4 .
The authors were , therefore , eax-ly led to abandon it : and , for testing the electrification of air , they used three different methods , one or other of which they found convenient in different cases .
Method 1 .
Observation of electrification of the substance receiving the electricity equal and opposite to that taken by air in any case of electrification of air .
Method 2 .
Observation of the electricity of an insulated metal vessel into which electrified air is introduced , or from which electrified air is removed .
" On the Diselectrification of Air , " by Lord Kelvin , Magnus Maclean , and Alexander Galt , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' March , 1895 ; " On the Electrification of Air , " by Lord Kelvin , ' Glasgow Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' March , 1895 ; " On the Electrification and Diselectrification of Air and other Gases , " by Lord Kelvin , Magnus Maclean , and Alexander Galt , ' Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1895 , p. 630 .
* Kelvin and Maclean , !
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1894 , and Kelvin , Maclean , and Galt , \lt ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' February , 1895 ; ' Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' S 262 ( from ' Lit. and Phil. Soc. of Manchester Proc. , ' October 18 , 1859 ) .
f " Electrification of Air by Water-jet , " by Magnus Maclean and Makita Goto , ' Phil. Mag. , ' August , 1890 .
j \#171 ; Sir le D evelopp e m ent d'Electricite a l'occasion de la Dissolution en Gouttes des Liquides , " ' Kongl .
Sv .
Vet .
Ak .
Handl .
, ' vol. 11 , No. 8 , pp. 14\#151 ; 43 ( pour l'an 1873 ) .
S " Ueber die Electricitat der Wasserfalle , " by P. Lenard , 'Annalen der Physik und Chemie/ 1892 .
On the Change of Absorption produced by Fluorescence .
485 Method 3 .
Observation of the electricity taken out of air by the electric filter .
S 5 .
Method 1 , was nsed in the experiments described in their communication to the Royal Society of February , 1895 , from which it was concluded that air and several other gases tried became electrified by blowing them in bubbles through water , and through solutions of various salts , acids , and alkalis , in water .
This conclusion was verified for the case of common air and pure water by collecting , into a large reservoir over water , air which had been bubbled through pure water in a U-tube .
The electrification of the air thus collected was tested by a water-dropper , taking the same potential as the air at the centre of the reservoir .
It was thus proved that the electrification of the air was negative , as was to be expected from the positive electrification which the authors had found on insulated vessels containing water through which air had been bubbled .
S 6 .
Method 2 , was used in the first experiments described in the present paper ( SS 16\#151 ; 24 ) which were undertaken for the purpose of determining approximately in absolute measure the total quantity of electricity in a given mass of electrified air ; and particularly for finding the greatest electrification which could be communicated to a large quantity of air by needle points supplied with electricity from an electric machine .
The result thus found in S 23 , 3"7 x 10 4 C.G\S .
electrostatic , is the greatest electric density ( quantity of electricity per cubic centimetre ) which the authors have hitherto been able to measure in air electrified by electrified needle points .
Rut by an electrified hydrogen flame a density of 22 x 10~4 C.G.S. electrostatic unit was obtained in air ( S 65 ) .
S 7 .
In all the other experiments described in the present paper , Method 3 was used ; but probably the authors must return to Method 2 if , in future , they undertake further experiments to find the greatest electric density which they can measure in air or other gases .
\lt ; \lt ; On the Change of Absorption produced by Fluorescence .
" By John Burke , B.A. ( Dub .
) , Berkeley Fellow of the Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor Arthur Schuster , F.R.S. Received June 10 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) If a body , A , of some fluorescent substance , such as uranium glass , be transmitting light from a similar body , B , which is fluorescing , the amount of light transmitted by A from B seems quite different , according as A is fluorescing or not .
Thei'e appears to

