XII .
A farther account of fossil bones discovered in caverns enclosed in the lime stone rocks at Plymouth .
By JOSEPH WHIDBEY , Esq. In a Letter addressed to Sir EVERARD HoME , Bart. V. P. R. S. Read February 8 , i8mi .
Bovisand Lodge , near Plymouth , DEAR SIR , Ilth Nov. 18zo .
IN November 1816 , I sent to Sir JOSEPH BANKS , some fossil bones found in the lime stone quarries at Oreston , near Plymouth , which bones were submitted by him to your examination ; and as you considered them to be of some importance , a dgscription of them was laid before the Royal Society , on the 27th of February , 1817 .
I now take the liberty of sending you some more bones that have been subsequently found , nearly similarly situated , and not far from the place where the others were discovered , and I beg you will please to make use of these in any way you may think proper for the benefit of science .
These bones were lately found in a cavern one foot high , eighteen feet wide , and twenty feet long , lying on a thin bed of dry clay at the bottom ; the cavern was entirely surrounded by compact lime stone rock , about eight feet above high water mark , fifty-five feet below the surface of the rock , one hundred and seventy-four yards from the original face of the quarries , and about one hundred and twenty yards , in that direction , from the spot where the former bones were found in 1816 .
All this quarry had been worked .
by blasting through the solid rock , with here and there a few small caverns similar to that where the bones were discovered , but none of them had the smallest appearance of ever having had any opening to the surface , or connection with it whatever , or with each other .
The caverns here spoken of were quarried many feet below the bottom of them , and nothing was found but hard solid lime-stone , in which the quarrying ceased , and the workmen proceeded on in an horizontal direction .
Many caverns have been met with in these quarries , the insides of which have been crusted with stalactite ; but there was no appearance of this kind in the cavern where the bones were found , every part of it being perfectly dry , and nearly clear of rubbish , a circumstance which clearly proves it had no connection with the surface , as in that case water would have found its way into .
it , the dropping of which would have formed stalactite , as in other instances .
I also send you some other bones , found about the same time , four yards distant from those just mentioned , and I have reason to believe on the same level , and under exactly similar circumstances , To this account Sir EVERARD HoME has added the following description of the bones , and the names of the animals to which they appear to have belonged .
i. The fourth grinder from the front , on the right side of the upper jaw , of the single horned rhinoceros .
e. The hindermost grinder but one , on the left side of the lower jaw , of the black or brown bear .
3 .
The hindermost grinder but one , on the right side of the upper jaw , of the black or brown bear .
4 .
Tusk of the left side of the lower jaw .
Tusk of the left side of the upper jaw of the brown or black bear .
5 .
Portions of two tibia , apparently of the same animal .
6 .
One lumbar ?
vertebra .
Portion of the os innominatum ?
Portion of the sacrum .
Hlead of the os femoris .
Two portions of cannon ?
bone of an animal of the deer kinda Portions of two dorsal vertebra .
Small portion of the pelvis , with part of the acetabulumn Part of the ulna .
Part of the body of the os femoris .
All apparently of the same animal , which is of the size of a bear .
The bones are deposited in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons .

