The Glucoside Constitution of Matter .
VI .
" The Glucoside Constitution of Proteid Matter .
" By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 20 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) For a long time I have adopted a process for separating the glycogen of the liver consisting in boiling with potash , pouring into alcohol , and collecting the precipitate .
For the purpose of estimation , the precipitated glycogen was converted by means of sulphuric acid into glucose , the determination of which gave the information required .
I afterwards applied the process to blood , and the various organs and tissues of the body , with the result that a more or less notable amount of cupric oxide reducing product was obtained , which I at the time looked upon as taking origin , as in the case of the liver , from glycogen .
When small quantities were operated upon for quantitative analysis , I experienced no difficulty in obtaining the product looked for .
When large quantities , however , were taken for the purpose of collecting it and studying its properties , I invariably failed to obtain anything like the amount that ought to have been yielded according to the indications afforded by the quantitative analysis conducted .
These attempts were undertaken at different times upon blood , eggs , and the spleen .
It was obvious there was something connected with the extraction with which I was not acquainted , and it was through prosecuting inquiry to clear up the discrepancy that I came across the knowledge revealed in this communication .
Detailed particulars are given in the communication of experiments with various animal and vegetable proteid matters , showing that the amount of cupric oxide reducing product obtained after the application of the potash process varied through the instrumentality of the potash .
If free glycogen or starch had been the source of it , the treatment with potash should have produced no effect beyond dissolving the associated nitrogenous matter and placing it in a position to be separable by the agency of the alcohol , and no difference should have resulted from varying the strength of the alkali or the length of time of contact .
The results obtained led to the conclusion that the cupric oxide reducing product must have taken origin from some other source than free glycogen or starch , and pointed to its having been derived from a cleavage of the proteid molecule .
The steps of procedure employed for obtaining the product susceptible of conversion into a cupric oxide reducing body ( sugar ) from proteid matter are described at length , and an account given of the difficulties which had led to a want of success in my early endeavours to collect the body in quantity .
With the knowledge Dr. F. W. Pavy .
[ June 8 , that is now possessed , no difficulty is experienced in obtaining it in any amount that may be required for the purpose of examination or experiment .
Coagulated egg-albumin , purified by water , was selected as the most suitable representative form of proteid to serve for yielding the product .
The properties of the material obtained are as follows :\#151 ; In the dried state it forms a hard glassy resinoid mass .
It is readily soluble in water , giving a clear solution .
It yields no coloration with iodine .
It possesses no CuO reducing power .
Strong alcohol precipitates it .
Spirit of 85 to 90 per cent , strength precipitates it in great part , if not completely , as an adherent tenacious gummy mass , from which the alcohol may be decanted off , and which may be afterwards worked up to form a sticky material .
Absolute alcohol , used freely , throws it down as a fine white precipitate with no tendency to coalesce to a gummy mass .
Upon the gummy precipitate absolute alcohol exerts a dehydrating action , causing it to harden and assume a crumbled , in place of a cohesive , state .
With spirit below 85 per cent , strength , precipitation becomes more and more incomplete , and the precipitate produced by the weaker kind of spirit assumes a loose or non-adherent form .
The incomplete precipitation with weak strengths is readily betrayed by the further precipitation which occurs upon adding more alcohol to the supernatant spirit .
In its physical characters , it presents a resemblance to Landwehr 's " animal gum .
" Chemically , it also resembles Landwehr 's " animal gum , " in forming a copper compound on being treated with cupric sulphate and caustic potash , from which it is susceptible of recovery by the agency of nitric acid and subsequent precipitation with alcohol .
I have applied Landwehr 's process to the product under consideration derived from the action of potash upon albumin , and have found that it behaves throughout like Landwehr 's " animal gum , " and similarly yields a CuO reducing body .
Moreover , I have found that this CuO reducing body gives , with phenylhydrazine , needle crystals of glucosazone , of which I have obtained micro-photographs .
The product , it may be finally remarked , possesses the property of diffusibility , a character in which it differs from the amylose carbohydrates\#151 ; starch , glycogen , dextrin .
I have been unable to find any statement about the diffusibility or otherwise of " animal gum , " but it is described as being a constant constituent of urine , which may be regarded as indicative of its being of a diffusible nature .
The CuO Reducing Product.\#151 ; By the action of mineral acids , the first-formed product , of which I have been speaking , undergoes con1893 .
] The Glucoside Constitution Proteid Matter .
version into a CuO reducing material .
For effecting this conversion I have for years past been in the habit of using 2 per cent , sulphuric acid .
As I have said , my impression originally was that the product consisted of glycogen , and from observations upon the conversion of starch and glycogen into glucose , I had formed the opinion that sulphuric acid of the strength named best met the requirements .
Boiling for about an hour and a half with an inverted condenser was resorted to , or the autoclave was used , half-an-hour 's exposure to a temperature of 150 ' C. producing an equivalent effect , the results given by the two methods being practically identical .
Where the object has been a quantitative analysis , the acid has been subsequently neutralised with potash , the sulphate formed not occasioning any inconvenience ; but should it be desired to collect the reducing* product , the acid must be removed by precipitation , best effected by the agency of barium cai'bonate ; the filtrate , after evaporation to dryness on the water-bath , yields the material in the state desired .
I had been led by certain circumstances to consider that the reducing product derived from the action of the 2 per cent , acid did not consist of glucose , and had unsuccessfully tried , by mox*e extended periods of boiling , to get it carried further .
Subsequently I renewed my efforts in this direction .
In experimenting with cellulose , I had found that but very slight action was produced by 2 per cent , acid , while considerable effect followed the use of acid of 10 per cent , strength , and it occurred to me that the body I was dealing with might behave similarly .
Trying 10 per cent , acid , I found that the reducing power of the product became very nearly doubled , being raised in the proportion of from between 50 and 60 to 100 .
I next tried 50 per cent , acid , allowed to remain in contact with the product for one to three days , then diluted to 20 per cent. , and boiled .
The result stood about the same as after direct boiling with 10 per cent , acid .
After 15 per cent , acid , also , a like result was obtained .
As yet I have failed to carry the body to a higher stage of CuO reducing power than that produced by 10 per cent , acid , but I am still led to think that the glucose stage has not yet been reached .
The effect of raising the reducing power is to give a semblance of a corresponding increase of material .
The following are the characters of the product obtained after the separation of the sulphuric acid by barium carbonate and evaporation of the filtered liquid to dryness :\#151 ; It presents the appearance of a sugary extractive , and has a pronounced baked-sugar odour .
It is very soluble in water , only slightly so in absolute alcohol , but considerably so in spirit of about 90 per cent , strength .
It is readily diffusible .
Boiled with caustic potash ( Moore 's test ) , the solution darkens .
56 The Glucoside Constitution of Proteicl Matter .
[ June 8* It dissolves hydrated copper oxide in presence of excess of potash ( Trommer 's test ) , without producing a biuret reaction ; at least , specimens are often procurable of which this can be said .
With Fehling 's solution , it gives a strong and neat reaction , the reduced copper oxide falling as a dense red precipitate .
Heated on the water-bath for two or three hours with phenylhydr-azine and acetic acid , it yields , on cooling , a crystalline osazone in the form of needles clustered into sheaves or brushes , or radiating in dense round masses .
Often the composite character of these round masses is only to be seen by close inspection of the circumference .
Whilst a certain type prevails , variations within limits are noticeable* and sometimes an approach to a spike constitution is observable .
The crystals are soluble in alcohol , from which they may be recrystallised .
It gives with benzoyl chloride an insoluble compound , in accord with the behaviour of carbohydrates .
With a-naphthol and excess of strong sulphuric acid , it behaves like sugar in giving a deep-violet colour , and leading on dilution to the formation of a violet-blue precipitate soluble in alcohol , ether* and caustic potash , with the production of yellow solutions , but insoluble in hydrochloric acid , a character by which , according td Molisch , the precipitate produced from sugar is distinguishable from that derived from peptone and various albuminous bodies .
With thymol and excess of strong sulphuric acid , it again behaves like sugar , giving a deep-red coloration , followed , on dilution , by the production of a carmine-red precipitate , soluble in alcohol , ether , and caustic potash , with formation of pale-yellow solutions , and in ammonia with formation of a bright-yellow solution .
The precipitate* as in the case of the a-naphthol test , is found to possess the character-of insolubility in hydrochloric acid .
It is susceptible of being thrown down in combination with oxide of lead , by the employment of lead acetate and ammonia , and is afterwards recoverable from the compound .
From the sugar thus recovered , the usual reaction is obtainable with Fehling 's solution ( provided the ammonia has been fully removed ) ; and also the crystalline osazone with phenylhydrazine , of which micro-photographs are furnished .
Prom this assemblage of positive characters , it appears to me thero can be no doubt that the CuO reducing body obtainable from proteid matter consists of sugar .
I should state , however , that I have not yet obtained it in a form to prove fermentable ; and Dr. Sheridan Lea , who kindly examined it with the polarimeter , failed to notice any rotation of which he could speak with certainty .
He adds there was* if anything , a tendency to laevorotation , but not amounting to more than 0T ' .
Presents .
1893 .
] In addition to the evidence derivable from the positive characters mentioned as possessed by the CnO reducing1 product , there is the corroborative evidence to be taken into account supplied by the characters of agreement observable between my primary non-reducing product and Landwehr 's " animal gum .
" As already .shown , the product in question can be thrown down , precisely like " animal gum , " in combination with copper oxide , and is afterwards recoverable and convertible into a CuO reducing body , which yields with phenylhydrazine a crystalline osazone .
The micro-photos , supplied show two kinds of crystals , one consisting distinctly of the long needles of glucosazone .
In its ready mode of separating out , the osazone was observed to agree with that derived from glucose .
A 10 per cent , strength of sulphuric acid was employed in obtaining the CuO reducing product operated upon .
Presents , June 8 , 1893 .
Transactions .
Berlin :\#151 ; Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde .
Zeitschrift .
Band XXVIII .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Berlin 1893 .
The Society .
Brussels:\#151 ; Societe Malacologique .
Annals .
Tome XV .
Fasc .
2 .
Tome XXVI .
8vo .
Bruxelles ; Proces-Verbal .
Juillet , 1891\#151 ; Septembre , 1892 .
8vo .
Bruxelles .
The Society .
Bucharest:\#151 ; Societatii de Sciinte Fizice .
Buletinul .
Anul II .
Nos. 3\#151 ; 4 .
8vo .
Bucuresci 1893 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
Memoirs .
Vol. XII .
No. 1 .
4to .
Cambridge 1893 .
The Academy .
Harvard University .
Bulletin .
Vol. VII .
No. 3 .
8vo .
1893 .
The University .
Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Bulletin .
Vol. XVI .
No. 12 .
Vol. XXIV .
No. 3 .
8vo .
Cambridge , 1893 .
The Museum .
Cracow :\#151 ; Academy des Sciences .
Bulletin International .
Mars , Avril , 1893 .
8vo .
Cracovie 1893 .
The Academy .
Kew:\#151 ; Royal Cardens .
Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information .
Nos. 74\#151 ; 75 .
8vo .
London 1893 .
The Director .
London:\#151 ; British Astronomical Association .
Journal .
Vol. III .
Nos. 6\#151 ; 7 .
8vo .
London 1893 .
The Association .
East India Association .
Journal .
Vol. XXV .
Nos. 4\#151 ; 5 .
8vo .
London 1893 .
The Association .
Geologists ' Association .
Proceedings .
Vol. XIII .
Part 2 .
8vo .
London 1893 .
The Association .
Institute of Brewing .
Transactions .
Vol. VI .
No. 6 .
8vo .
London 1893 .
The Institute .

