407 1893 .
] Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
improvement in diagnosis and more careful certification of the causes of death .
IV .
" Further Experimental Note on the Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , MI ) .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received April 15 , 1893 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of St. Thomas 's Hospital , London .
) Appropriate excitation of the afferent nerves from the flexor muscles of the knee joint so alters , as I have shown , * the condition of the extensor muscles of that joint that the reaction called the " knee jerk " becomes no longer elicitable .
I have endeavoured to examine the quality of the alteration which thus restrains or abolishes the " jerk .
" It must be remembered that there is some variance of opinion as to the nature of the jerk itself .
In the opinion of some authorities the jerk is of reflex nature ( Bowditch , Lombard , Senator , Warren ) ; in the opinion of others it is not truly reflex , but is a direct muscular reaction , intimately dependent , however , on a reflex tonus in the muscle ( Tschiriew ) , or on a spinal influence reflexly exerted , but not necessarily identical with " tonus " nor necessarily measurable by tonicity ( Waller ) .
On the reflex theory of the " jerk , " its disappearance or decrease under excitation of the sensory nerve from its antagonistic muscles tallies with phenomena of the mutual interference of spinal activities such as are exemplified perhaps most clearly by those experiments of Goltz , in which , after section of the spinal cord in the thoracic region , the act of micturition could be cut short by strong stimulation of the skin of the tail .
On the view that the jerk is not itself reflex , but depends on a reflex tonus , the abeyance of the phenomenon under excitation of the afferent fibres of the hamstring nerve might be owing to decrease thus induced in the tonus of the vasto-crureus muscle , just as on the same view abolition of the jerk by cutting the sensory roots of the crural nerve is due to the impairment thus produced in the tonicity .
As a step toward determining between these two possibilities , I have attempted to discover whether afferent impulses ascending from the hamstring muscles affect to any considerable extent the tonus of the antagonistic quadriceps extensor .
Complete abeyance of the " jerk " under excitation of the hamstring nerve cannot , so far as I have seen , be long maintained .
After a longer or shorter interval the jerk * 1 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' February 1 , 1893 .
Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
on the [ May 4 , returns .
Soon after discontinuance of the stimulation the jerk not only returns , but becomes markedly exaggerated .
Though abolition or decrease of the jerk is thus temporary , exaltation conversely produced by severance of the hamstring nerve is permanent , lasting at least for some weeks .
On the tonicity hypothesis concerning the jerk , exaltation of the jerk by section of the hamstring nerve should be accompanied by a concurrent increase in the tonus of the vasto-crureus muscle .
It is not easy to judge slight differences in tonus of muscles even where of the fellow muscles of the two sides of the body one normal muscle is available as standard for comparison .
Yet any decided difference of tonus must , if multiplied into a sufficient time , amount to a not inconsiderable difference in the chemical condition of the muscle .
I have therefore sought to test what influence , if any , section of the hamstring nerve exerts on the extensor muscle of the joint as judged of by the development of rigor mortis in that muscle .
In muscles paralysed by section of their nerves , onset of mortem rigidity is delayed ( Kolliker , * Brown-Sequardf ) .
BierfreundJ has found that after semisection of the spinal cord made a few hours before death the onset of rigor in the limbs on the side of section is considerably later than on the opposite side .
Inasmuch as depression of tonus is an alteration in the direction of this paralysis , I hoped that time of onset of rigor mortis might serve to indicate whether , cceteris paribus , decrease or increase of tonus had obtained in the muscle for the period immediately preceding death .
A few experiments on the influence of nerve section upon speed of onset of rigor mortis gave results accordant with the original by Brown-Sequard and Kolliker .
I then turned to the division of , instead of muscular nerves , the anterior roots supplying the muscles .
Experiments made on the hind limb of the Cat showed the effect of section of the anterior roots to be a marked delay in the onset of rigor in the muscles supplied by them .
The effect was clear , even if the roots were cut only five minutes before killing the animal .
I then experimented on division of the posterior roots .
The posterior roots of the 6th , 7th , and 8th post-thoracic nerves of one side were severed .
In result the hamstring muscles of the corresponding side became rigid later than did those of the opposite side , even in an experiment in which the animal was killed only a quarter of an hour after section of the roots .
The effect of section of these sensory roots after previous severance of the cord at the 1st lumbar segment was then examined .
The severance of the cord , as was to be expected , deferred considerably the onset of rig0r mortis in both of the hind limbs .
It appeared also to decidedly * 4 Archiv f. Path .
Anatomic/ yol .
10 , p. 242 , 1856 .
f 4 Gaz .
Med. de Paris/ No. 42 , 1857 .
J 4 Pfliiger 's Archiy/ yol .
42 , p. 195 , 1888 .
1893 .
] Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
409 redace the difference between the time of onset of the rigor in the two hind limbs ; bnt still , in each case , the hamstring muscles on the side corresponding to the section of the posterior roots entered rigidity later than in the fellow limb .
The effect of section of the hamstring branch of the sciatic trunk upon the time of onset of rigor in the extensors of the knee , the cord having been previously divided at the 1st lumbar segment , was then proceeded to .
Twelve experiments were made , but the results obtained were conflicting .
In seven of these experiments rigor commenced in the extensor of the side on which the nerve had not been cut before it did in the extensor of the opposite side .
In three rigor commenced indubitably rather earlier on the side of nerve section than on the opposite .
In two I could not detect that there was any difference between the two sides in the time of onset of the rigor .
A point noted in nine of these experiments ( it was not looked for in the remaining three ) may be mentioned .
When death is induced by haemorrhage , the cord having a short time previously been severed at the top of the lumbar region , various reflexes can be elicited from the hind limbs and tail for some little time after respiratory spasms and all reflexes have vanished from the body in front of the level of the section .
There is in the Cat an ear reflex which generally outlasts others under chloroform or ether administration , and often outlasts them by a considerable time .
Indeed , so soon as this reflex has disappeared , the respiratory movements are reduced to a dangerous extent .
It consists in a laying back of the pinna of the ear , the pinna being frequently twitched several times : it is elicited by sharply twisting the tip of the pinna .
The corneal reflex and still more the knee jerk are both extinguished by chloroform and ether for some time before this ear reflex disappears .
This reflex may in the Cat , like Dastre 's reflex from the gum of the upper jaw in the Dog , be termed the reflexus ultimus .
But when death is induced in the manner above mentioned , the knee jerk outlasts the ear reflex by as long in some experiments as four or five minutes ; and in the limb in which the hamstring nerve has been divided the jerk persists longer than in the fellow limb .
Finally , I examined the effect of bandaging one knee in full extension , the other in full flexion , after previously severing the cord at the 1st lumbar segment .
The bandages after an interval were removed .
The jerk on each side was then found to be good , and rather brisker in the knee that had been flexed than in that which had been extended .
Death was induced by haemorrhage .
Ho difference between the time of disappearance of the jerk on the two sides was detected .
In each of five experiments performed the quadriceps extensor and the crural muscles became rigid later on the side that had been flexed than on the other side , but the hamstring VOL. LIII .
/ 2 0 Dr. G. S. Sherrington .
Note on the [ May 4 , muscles became rigid earlier in the leg that had been flexed than in the other .
This is not what might have been expected in view of Wundt's* observation that tension in a muscle hastens rigor in it .
It must be remembered that Wundt 's statement is not based on muscle in situ , intact and connected with the spinal cord .
The observed fact harmonises with the existence of an augmentation of tonus of extensors in result of excitation of the afferent nerves from their opponent group .
The experiments so far therefore seem to indicate that the direction of the change induced in the extensor muscles by afferent impulses ascending from the flexors is in the direction of increased tonicity , and to strengthen the supposition that the interference with the " jerk " is located in the spinal mechanism of the " jerk .
" The marked influence exerted reflexly by the flexors of the knee upon the extensors of that joint suggested search for instances of analogous correlation elsewhere .
The delicately correlated muscles of the eyeball offer an experimental advantage in that even slight alterations of their length can be readily observed by inspection .
I therefore exposed the inferior oblique muscle ( Cat and Monkey ) , completely detached it from the globus , and then observed the effect of lightly drawing npon it , so as to stretch it between the end held and the end attached to the bony floor of the orbit .
Reflex actions were in this way easily obtained , but were inconstant in character ; the eyeballs were generally moved , perhaps most frequently conju-gately , toward the side corresponding to the stretched muscle .
I watched especially to see whether the globes were turned upward or downward , but those movements were far less frequent than movements apparently purely lateral .
Sometimes the reflex obtained did not affect the eyes at all ; the movement was often a pricking of the ear , either with movement of the 6yes or apart from eye movement .
Twice the muscle was detached altogether with careful avoidance of injury to its nerve and blood vessel ; held between two ivory-tipped forceps , it was then gently stretched .
The results were the same as when its one end retained the natural attachment .
In all cases , section of the nerve which enters its posterior border to supply it immediately abolished all reply .
This nerve is relatively long and easily isolable .
Electrical excitation of it can be performed with facility ; a weak tetanising current applied to its central end produced the same variable movements as did the stretching of the muscle itself , but apparently less readily .
*The inferior oblique muscle was employed for 'these observations because it can be freely isolated with little injury and displacement of other structures , and because of the length of the nerve branch supplying it .
I should have preferred , otherwise , to use the externus * 1 Die Lehre der Muskelbewegung , ' pp. 68\#151 ; 72 .
Brunswick , 1858 .
1893 .
] Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
411 rectus , because of the simplicity of its antagonistic coupling with the internal rectus .
But the external rectus it is not easy without disturbance of other parts to isolate sufficiently to feel certain that tension put upon it remains confined to it alone .
I adopted , therefore , for examining the antagonism of the external and internal recti the method of paralysing one and then examining the activities of the other .
When examining in the Monkey the movements of the digits obtainable by cortical excitation , if movement , e.g. , flexion , of the hallux or pollex is elicited , and the nerve to the flexors of the digit be then severed , renewed cortical excitation at the same spot still produces a movement ; # this movement is generally in direction the reverse of that previously obtained ; this " reversal " is , however , not invariably obtained ; occasionally there results a feeble movement in the same direction as the movement previously obtained .
In three experiments this movement has been so decided as to lead one to reexamine carefully the site of division of the peripheral nerve in order to assure oneself that it had been really severed completely .
The persistence of movement in the same direction as before the flexor nerves are severed must indicate that the stimulation applied to the cortex produces at each repetition an inhibition of the tonus of the muscles antagonistic to the flexors , that is to say , of the extensor muscles .
My experience of this inhibition is that it cannot , even when it occurs , be demonstrated many times in succession .
The phenomenon of reversal is , on the other hand , obtained repeatedly with facility .
A power to inhibit the activity of striated muscle has , therefore , to be included among the attributes of the " motor " cortex of the hemisphere .
In the coordination of the movements of the eyeballs it appears to play an important and easily demonstrable part .
Ferrierf discovered that excitation of a particular portion of this cortex produces a conjugate movement of both eyeballs in a direction away from the hemisphere in which the stimulation is employed .
If the appropriate area of the cortex of the left hemisphere be excited the movement is of both eyeballs to the right .
My enquiry regarding the correlation of action of the antagonistic internal and external recti in this movement may be stated as three questions .
Is the movement carried out : a. By contraction of the left internal rectus and the right external rectus , their antagonist muscles undergoing the while simply passive traction ; / 3 .
By contraction of the above two muscles combined with slighter contraction ( steadying ) of their antagonistic muscles ( left external rectus and right internal rectus ) ; or * Sherrington , ' Journ. of Physiol. , * vol. 13 , p. 671 , \lt ; \#163 ; \#169 ; .
t Ferrier , ' Functions of the Brain , * London , 1876 .
Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
on the [ May 4 , 7 .
By contraction of the left internal and right external rectus associated with inhibition of the tonus of their antagonistic muscles ( left external rectus and right internal rectus ) ?
The plan of experiment adopted has been as follows :\#151 ; The appro-priate portion of the left cortex having been ascertained by excitation , and having assured myself that the desired conjugate deviation is regularly obtained , I at once sever the 3rd and 4th cranial nerves of the left side between their origin and the point of their entrance into the cavernous sinus .
The position of the left eyeball in rest is , immediately after performance of that section , scarcely perceptibly different from what it has been before , nor is usually the pupil dilated immediately , although it soon becomes so .
Excitation of the cortex as before is at once proceeded with .
The movement obtained is still conjugate deviation of both eyeballs to the right .
The right globus appears to move exactly as before ; the left globus , on close examination , although it moves , clearly does not move as it did before .
Its movement starts usually just perceptibly later than the movement of the right eyeball ; the movement , when started , is somewhat slower than that of the right eye , and it travels only some two-thirds as far ; on discontinuing the excitation both eyeballs return together .
Sometimes the movement of the left eye , instead of starting later than that of the right , starts simultaneously with it ; sometimes it starts distinctly earlier , and this especially when the external squint that soon appears has become well developed .
But the movement is never seen quite so rapid or so ample as that of the right eye .
On excitation of the corresponding part of the right cortex the movement of the left eye outwards may be very slight , especially if there be marked outward strabismus ; in two experiments there frequently occurred on excitation of the right cortex together with the usual movement of the right eye to the left a movement of the left eye to the right and sometimes , apparently , to beyond the primary position .
A few times a double movement occurred , the left globus at first moving to the left conjugately with the right , and then suddenly reversing its movement and turning inwards to the right .
At each discontinuance of the excitation of the right cortex when the eyeballs have reacted by con j ugate movement to the left , the left does not return so quickly as the right ; indeed it may be many seconds in returning .
These experiments succeed uniformly , so far as I have seen , with both Macacus rhesus and with sinicus , even when very young specimens are used .
Ferrier and Munk have shown that conjugate movements of the eyes are obtainable from the cortical surface posterior to the " motor " region , and Schafer , by demonstrating inter alia the great difference in the reaction time for the movements in the two cases , has provided an index for the profound distinction that must be 1893.1 Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
413 drawn between them .
I find that from this posterior region , as well as from Ferrier 's " motor " region , can the tonus of the external rectus be inhibited in the orbit of the same side as the hemisphere stimulated after the 3rd cranial nerve of that side has been cut through .
An extremely interesting observation has recently been made by Mott and Schafer.* Experimenting together , they have seen that by simultaneous excitation of the frontal cortex of both right and left hemispheres the two eyeballs can be set approximately in the primary position , sometimes with a slight degree of convergence .
I have , in two Bonnet Monkeys , repeated this experiment after having previously performed section of both right and left 3rd nerves and both right and left 4th nerves at their origin from the brain .
After the section there was considerable double divergent squint , and in one of the experiments the strabismus of the left eye was distinctly the greater in degree .
The effect of simultaneous bilateral excitation , approximately balanced , of the frontal cortex was to cause both eyes to be rotated inwards up to , and certainly in some trials beyond , the primary position .
The double divergent squint was converted into a slight degree of convergence .
Here , where the external recti were the only ocular muscles still connected with the central nervous system , convergence must have been due to simultaneous bilateral inhibition of the tonus of the right and left external recti .
It is difficult to find any other interpretation for these results than that the excitation of the cerebral cortex , just as it occasionally inhibits the tonus of the muscles of the thumb or hallux , also possesses the power of inhibiting the tonus of ocular 'muscles , at least of the external straight muscle .
Further , it would seem that this inhibitory activity of the cortex is more constantly elicitable experimentally in the case of the muscles of the eyeball than in the case of those of the hand and foot .
That the cerebrum nominally exerts a more or less tonic inhibitory influence over the lower local centres subserving muscular tonicity and local muscular reflex action is a widely accepted doctrine .
The above observations accord with and , as I think , extend the data for such a belief .
The above experimental results may , it seems to me , be all of them explained on an hypothesis that the cerebral cortex can inhibit muscular tonus and reduce it even to paralysation limit ; but it does not seem necessary to suppose that the cortex , although it can thus inhibit tonus in striped muscle , can also inhibit the active contraction of it .
This second assumption seems necessary , however , to explain the following result .
If , after section of both right and left 3rd and right and left 4th nerves , the left frontal cortex be excited and both eyes made to deviate to the right , excitation of the right cortex ( the * * Brain , ' vol. 17 , p. 165 .
Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
Note on the [ May 4 , experiment has not succeeded unless this stimulation he somewhat strong ) will not unfreqnently cause the right eye to move inwards and sometimes fully up to the primary position .
The active contraction of the external rectus appears to be cut short and even converted into a condition of relaxation more complete than when no cortical excitation at all is being employed .
I have watched with interest in Macacus the voluntary movements of the eyes after section of the 3rd and 4th nerves .
In the early hours after the section , if for instance these nerves have been cut on the left side only , the gaze is readily directed to the left but not so readily to the right .
There arises , of course , considerable external squint of the left eye .
Neither when the right is directed toward the right nor when it is converged upon a light or other object just in front of the face is there more than a mere trace of movement of the left eye .
Twenty-four or forty-eight hours later , when the right eye is turned to right the left eye does perform the conjugate movement , but imperfectly , and more imperfectly and also more variably than under experimental excitation of the frontal cortex .
Another instance in which antagonistic correlation may be examined is that of the muscles which close and open the palpebral aperture .
These are at least potentially antagonistic .
I find that in the Monkey excitation of the 3rd nerve in the cranium slightly depresses the lower eyelid at the same time that it freely raises the upper .
This slight depression , often very slight indeed , is abolished by section of the branch of the 3rd to the inferior rectus muscle .
The 3rd nerve ( leaving out of consideration the cervical sympathetic , the action of which in opening the eye , as regards speed , direction of movement , and other characters , is different from the opening obtainable from the cortex ) may be termed the nerve which opens the palpebral aperture .
The 7th is the only nerve which closes it by active muscular contraction .
This latter statement applies to the Monkey , not to the Cat , because in the Cat , after section of the 7th nerve at the stylomastoid foramen , I find that , although the upper and lower lids remain permanently rather widely apart , the third eyelid ( membrana nictitans ) shuts at short intervals with an extremely rapid sweep completely over the exposed part of the globus ; and when after section of the 7th the animal sleeps the nictitating membrane is partially extended over the front of the ball .
The third eyelid is therefore not innervated like the upper and lower from the 7th .
Langley and Anderson* record that it is not innervated from the 4th , probably not from the 3rd , but that excitation of the 6th causes " great protrusion of it .
" If , after section of the 3rd , the appropriate part of the frontal cortex be excited either on the same side as the nerre cut or on the opposite side I find no movement at all result in the lids on the side * ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 13 , p. 461 .
1893 .
] Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
415 corresponding to the nerve section , although the opening of the eye the other side is each time quick and wide .
That is to say , there is in this instance no evidence of concomitant activity of the antagonistic muscle , either in the sense of contraction or of relaxation .
But on shifting the electrodes to the suitable point of the cortex the eyes of both sides reply to the excitation by a sharp closure just as usual .
The well-known dilatation of the pupil elicitable from this region of the cortex might , in view of the above-described examples of inhibition from the cortex , perhaps , be supposed to be related rather to an inhibition of the constrictor action of the 3rd nerve than to cortical augmentation of the influence kept up via the cervical sympathetic .
The dilatation of the pupil under excitation of the frontal cortex certainly is much later in onset than are the movements of the extrinsic ocular muscles , but that difference might be based on the difference in time of response of the two kinds of muscular fibres involved .
This supposition is , however , negatived by the fact that division of the cervical sympathetic cut out dilatation that was being regularly elicited from the cortex , the 3rd nerve being undivided , in two experiments I made to test the point .
In these instances , therefore , although an extreme dilatation was obtained with , for the cortex , quite weak currents , the cortex reacted by discharge directed through the sympathetic system .
Addition .
April 20 , 1893 .
I would add to the above the following remarkable passage , which I find in ' The Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Body , ' by Charles and John Bell ( London , 1826 , vol. 3 ) .
In describing the action of the muscles of the eye , the author , after adverting to some experiments made by himself on the functions of the 4th cranial nerve , says:\#151 ; " Wb have seen that the effect of dividing the superior oblique was to cause the eye to roll more forcibly upwards ; and if we suppose that the influence of the 4th nerve is , on certain occasions , to cause a relaxation of the muscle to which it goes , the eyeball must be then rolled upwards .
" The nerves have been considered so generally as instruments for stimulating the muscles ; without thought of their acting in the opposite capacity , that some additional illustration may be necessary here , Thixmgh the nerves is established the connection between the muscles , not only that connection by which muscles combine to one effort , but also that l'elation between the classes of muscles by which the one relaxes and the other contracts .
I appended a weight to a tendon of an extensor muscle , which gently stretched it and drew out the muscle ; and I found that the contraction of the opponent Dr. C. S. Sherrington ' .
Note on the [ May 4 , flexor was attended with a descent of the weight , which indicated the relaxation of the extensor .
To establish this connection between two classes of muscles whether they be grouped near together , as in the limbs , or scattered widely as the muscles of respiratiqn , theie must be particular and appropriate nerves to form this double bond , to cause them to conspire in relaxation as well as to combine in contraction .
If such a relationship be established , through the distribution of the nerves , between the muscles of the eyelids and the superior oblique muscles of the eyeball , the one will relax while the other contracts .
" My experiments described above show the correctness of Bell 's supposition , at least as regards the external straight muscles , and that the phenomenon of inhibition of activity under volition and under appropriate cortical faradisation is not confined among the ocular group of muscles to the recti externi , the observations made seem to prove .
For instance , I have divided the 6th cranial nerve of the left side at its origin from the brain , and then examined the behaviour of the eyeballs under suitable experimental conditions .
The position immediately assumed by the eyeballs was that of slight convergence even when under anaesthesia ( not very deep ) .
Subsequently the internal strabismus increased somewhat , to disappear , or almost disappear , when the gaze was voluntarily turned to the right , but to be greatly increased ( i.e. , the angle at which the optic axes crossed becoming great ) when the gaze was directed to the left .
The left eye under volitional movement frequently rotated from the inner canthus outward conjugately with the right , but never passed beyond the primary ( median , straight-forward ) position .
On the gaze being directed from the median primary position toward the right , the left eye rotated conjugately with the right eye usually with an apparently perfect symmetry of motion , but not unfrequently with a movement slower and less ample than the right .
On the gaze being directed from the median primary position toward the left , the left eye did not move at all , while the right eye moved of course normally .
It was frequently seen that the eyes remained turned to the right , apparently resting in that direction ; it was so generally when the animal was sleepy or dozing .
When the gaze was directed from that position over to the left , the movement of the left eye was not unfrequently , so far as could be seen , perfectly conjugated and symmetrical with that of the right eye , as far as up to the middle line of the palpebral fissure ; there it stopped short , while the right eye went a variable distance further .
On excitation of the appropriate part of the frontal cortex of the right side , both eyes being in the primary position or with a slight degree of convergence at the commencement of the excitation , the right eye swept sharply to the left , and the left either did not move 1893 .
] Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
417 or merely shifted sluggishly up to the full primary position .
On excitation of the frontal area of the cortex of the left hemisphere both eyes were directed to the right , the left eye sometimes moving sluggishly as compared with the right ; after cessation of the excitation , the right eye would frequently return at once to approximately the primary median position , while the left eye did not return for a considerable time , and did so in a slow unequal manner ; frequently , however , both eyes remained for a long time steadily directly toward the right , and under anaesthesia that seemed to be almost as frequent a position for them to assume as was one approximating to the median primary .
When the right frontal cortex was faradised , the eyes resting at the commencement of the excitation in a direction towards the right , the right eye swept over sharply to the left , sometimes with an upward inclination also , more rarely with a downward ; movement of the left eye invariably accompanied this movement of the right , and with a corresponding inclination , but the movement of the left eye often started late , and was almost invariably slow and feeble as compared with that of the right , and it was also the more variable .
When both eyes had been directed to the right by excitation of the left frontal cortex , and directly after the left side excitation had ceased , the right frontal cortex was excited , both eyes turned toward the left , but the left eye never overshot the primary median plane .
When the two eyes had been directed to the right by moderate faradisation of the left frontal cortex , a somewhat strong faradisation of the right frontal cortex , the moderate faradisation of the left side being stixl continued , caused the left globus , and the right , to be turned toward the left , but the right eye generally started earlier and moved more quickly than the left , and the left , although sometimes brought up to the primary position , was sometimes only slightly turned towards it.* When a moderate excitation of the right frontal cortex had turned the right eye to the left and brought the left to the full median position , moderate faradisation of the left frontal cortex ( the excitation of the right side still continuing ) turned the left eye to the right so as to produce convergent squint ; stronger faradisation of the left cortex successive to and concurrently with moderate faradisation of the right directed both eyes to the right .
In two instances moderate excitation of the right cortex alone , near the angle of the precentral sulcus , caused the right eye to be turned to the left , and the left eye to be turned to the right , so that strong convergence resulted .
* A notable dilatation of both pupils sometimes occurred in this combination experiment .
Neither the left nor the right faradisation produced by itself any dilatation of either pupil , but on the second electrodes being applied considerable dilatation of both pupils followed .
There was no epilepsy .
Dr. C. S. Sherrington .
Note on the [ May 4 , Faradisation of the left occipital cortex directed both eyes to the right with a slight downward or slight npward inclination or without any inclination , according to the area excited ( Schafer Munk ) .
Faradisation of the right occipital cortex , if both eyes were approximately in the primary position , caused the right eye to be slowly and steadily turned to the left , and the left eye to be steadily brought fully up to the medium primary position if it were not already in it ; if already fully in the primary position the left eyeball did not move at all .
If the left eye moved at all it very generally started its movement distinctly before the right eye and appeared to rotate less slowly than did the right .
This difference was best seen if the eyes were previous to the excitation resting in a direction to the right .
On then faradising with weak or moderate currents the left occipital cortex the steady slow rotation of the left eye commenced so much before that of the right that sometimes the left had travelled half-way to the primary position before the right eye bad well started .
Under excitation of the right occipital cortex the movement of the left eye toward the left seemed so clearly stronger , sharper in starting , and even quicker and steadier than under excitation of the right frontal cortex , that I attempted to balance it against the movement to the right produced from the left frontal cortex .
On each occasion , when tested , I found that , the two eyes being kept directed to the right by moderate excitation of the left frontal cortex , they could be sent over to the left again by moderate or strong excitation of the right occipital cortex , and in each instance the left or paralysed eye was again the first to start travelling .
Three similar experiments gave results quite similar to the above in the points mentioned here .
In two experiments , one on a small Rhesus and one on a large Sinicus , I have combined with section of the left 6th nerve section of the left 4th nerve at its exit from the brain .
The results obtained agreed in many respects with those obtained when the 6th nerve alone was severed .
Points of difference were the following:\#151 ; In the median position of rest the left eye was turned slightly upward as well as inward .
On excitation of the right frontal cortex , the eyes starting in the primary position , the right eye was turned to the left side and the left eye was turned upward , more or less amply , rarely not at all ; the left eye was never observed to rotate to the left beyond the primary median position .
When particular points in the right frontal cortex had been found which directed the eyes not merely to the left but upwards also , on stimulation being applied the left eye was turned upward to a greater degree than was the right .
When places were found in the right frontal cortex which directed the right eyeball downward as well as to the left , occasionally the left eye moved a little downwards ; more usually it moved distinctly upwards , so that there 1893 .
] Correlation of Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
419 was strong divergence of the optic axes in the vertical plane , with the right pupil depressed , the left pupil elevated sometimes considerably .
The same held true in the results of excitation of the occipital regions of the cortex , and the left eye generally commenced movement under excitation of the right occipital cortex distinctly earlier than did the right eye , just as when the 6th nerve alone had been divided ; so that under excitation of the right occipital cortex there was usually at one phase of the movement instead of any convergence of the optic axes a strong divergence of them .
It was noticeable that after division of the 6th nerve , either alone or in conjunction with the 4th , also in one experiment in conjunction with the 5th , the pupil of the eye on the same side as the nerve section was slightly but distinctly larger than in the opposite eye .
This observation led me to stimulate the 6th root in the Monkey , but , although the eye was in result moved outwards , I could not satisfy myself that any constriction of pupil at all occurred , although the pupil was well dilated at the time .
In the case of the internal straight muscle , I believed it would be less easy to sever its antagonist 's nerve than in the case of the antagonist of the external rectus .
I therefore made several earlier experiments , employing section of the external rectus and its nerve inside the orbit .
The above description is , however , not based on the results of those earlier experiments in which the orbit was opened , because : ( 1 ) It was found then impossible to be quite certain that some remnant of movement or drag in the muscle could not affect the globus sufficiently to simulate the movement that might result from a relaxation of the antagonistic muscle ; ( 2 ) because when once the orbit has been opened , or its contents dissected , the movements of the globus are deranged sufficiently to beset with doubt any interpretation that can be put upon them ; ( 3 ) finally , because destruction of the muscles or their nerves in the orbit or cavernous sinus involves destruction also of concomitant sensory fibres from the 5th nerve which may exert a considerable influence on the antagonistic muscle , the subject of observation .
I would add , however , that the results obtained in my earlier experiments did , though open to these objections , seem to accord with those I have obtained after sections at the base of the brain ; it may be that the harmony between the two sets is superficial rather than real .
The experiments from which the results related here are quoted are only those in which neither the orbit nor the cavernous sinus was opened at all .
It appears , therefore , that the activity of the internal straight muscle can be directly inhibited by appropriate excitation of certain parts of the frontal cortex , still better of the occipital cortex , of the hemisphere of the side opposite to the muscle ; and the inhibition is very similar to that exerted over the activity of the external 420 Mr. R. F. Gwyther .
Differential [ May 4 , straight muscle by similar regions of the cortex of the same side as the muscle .
A point of difference\#151 ; and it is a suggestive one_____between the two cases appears to be that under inhibitory relaxation of the rectus externus from cortical excitation the globus may rotate beyond the middle line of the palpebral fissure , whereas under cortical relaxation of the rectus internus the eyeball may travel up to that middle line , but very rarely , if ever , trespasses beyond it .
It thus seems clear that by experiment abundant support can be obtained for the supposition put forward by Charles Bell .
Y. " On the Differential Co variants of Plane Curves , and the Operators employed in their Development .
" By R. F. Gwyther , M.A. , Fielden Lecturer in Mathematics , Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor Horace Lamb , F.R.S. Received April 14 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) Consider any point ( a ?
, y ) on a standard plane curve , and write ab \#171 ; 2 , a3 , \amp ; c. , for dyjdx , d2yjdx2.2 !
, d*y/ dx3.3 !
, \amp ; c. , the differential coefficients being derived from the equation to the curve .
Let ( f , y ) be the current coordinates of a point which moves so that/ ^ , y , x , y , \#171 ; i , a2 , a3 , ... .
) =0 , say , on a trajectory of the standard curve .
Now let a general homographic transformation affect \#163 ; y , and x , y alike ; the function which replaces / ( \#163 ; , y , x , y , au ... , ) will generally entirely change its character ; if , however , it retains the same form ( except that it is affected by a certain factor of which the form is to be found ) , I define it to be a differential covariant of the standard curve .
It is obvious that among the covariants will be found tangents and polar curves , and the ordinary covariant curves .
It is proposed to investigate the subject generally , and to find the relations of the Covariant with the contravariant curves .
SL For the purpose of obtaining the forms of the linear partial differential equations which express the conditions that a function should be a covariant function , an infinitesimal homograph ic transformation is employed , expressed by the relations x ____ y _ 1 X+BxY 7 T " AX+BY+l .
where A , B , and B !
are small , with identical relations for f and y. The conditions found may be stated as follows .

