Eclipse of the Sun , 1896.\#151 ; Novaya Zenilya Observations .
271 are observed to be more advanced in development than at other times , bat not yet arrived at total maturity ; third , eggs , which according to every probability belong to the Common Eel , are found in the sea from the month of August to that of January inclusive ; fourth , the Leptocephalus brevirostris abounds from February to September .
As to the other months , we are in some uncertainty , because during them our only natural fisherman , the Orthagoriscus mola , appears very rarely ; fifth , I am inclined to believe that the elvers ascending our rivers are already one year old , and I have observed that in an aquarium specimens of L. brevirostris can transform themselves into young elvers in one month 's time .
Total Eclipse of the Sun , 1896.\#151 ; The Novaya Zemlya Observations .
" By Sir George Baden-Powell , K.C.M.G. , M.P. Communicated by J. Norman Lookyer , C.B. , F.R.S. .
Received November 19 , \#151 ; Read November 19 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The author gives an account of the circumstances under which it became desirable to fit out an expedition to observe the eclipse in No'vaya Zemlya , and the arrangements made to convey it by his yacht " Otaria .
" Details are given of the observing station , the erection of the different instruments , and the scheme of work .
The valuable spectroscopic results obtained are still under process of being worked out ; but the coronagraph results are reported in detail , and copies of the chief photographs are appended .
The meteorological and other conditions during the eclipse are duly recorded .
" Preliminary Report on the Results obtained with the Prismatic Camera during the Eclipse of 1896 .
" By J. NORMAN Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received November 17 , \#151 ; Read November 19 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) I he author first states the circumstances under which Sir George Baden-Powell , K.C.M.G , , M.P. , with great public spirit conveyed an eclipse party to Novaya Zemlya in his yacht " Otaria , " to which party was attached Mr. Shackleton , one of the computers employed by the Solar Physics Committee .
The prismatic camera employed , loaned from the Solar Physics 272 List of Officers and Council nominated for Election .
Observatoiy , was carefully adjusted before leaving England , and a programme of exposures was drawn up based upon the experience of 1893 .
As the station occupied lay at some distance from the central line , this programme was reduced by Mr. Shackleton .
Two of the photographs obtained are reproduced for the information of other workers , as some time must elapse before the discussion of all the results can be completed .
This discussion and Mr. Shackle-ton 's report on the local arrangements and details of work , are promised in a subsequent communication .
The lines photographed in the " flash " at the copimencement of totality\#151 ; happily caught by Mr. Shackleton\#151 ; the wave-lengths of which lines have been measured by Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer , show interesting variations from those photographed by Mr. Fowler in the cusp during the eclipse of 1893 .
With the exception cf the lines visible in the spectra of hydrogen and helium , and the longest lines of many of the metallic elements , considerable differences of intensity from the lines of Fraunhofer are noticeable .
The coronal rings have been again photographed , and the results of 1893 have been confirmed .
November 26 , 1896 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. George-Marray and Professor Karl Pearson were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election was read as follows:\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Sir Joseph Lister , Bart. , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. Treasurer.\#151 ; Sir John Evans , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. .
f Professor Michael Foster , M.A. , M.D. Secretaries.\#151 ; | professor Arthur William Rucker , M.A. , D.Sc .
Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Edward Frankland , D.C.L. , LL. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Professor William Grylls Ada , ms. .
M.A. ; Professor Thomas Clifford Allbutt , M.D. ; Professor Robert

