154 Dr. W. Huggins on the [ Jan. 7 , Rutherfurd have shown can be reached by long exposure with the present processes ) .
I cannot but think , moreover , that when the light which the spectroscope has already thrown upon molecular action shall be better known , and used as a basis for further inquiry , methods of photography greatly exceeding the present one in rapidity , in the less-refrangible portion of the spectrum , will be developed and utilized in the research .
The map is being drawn by my assistant , Mr. Eaphael Meldola ( to whom my thanks are due for the skill and patience he has brought to bear upon the work ) , in the first instance , with more especial reference to the positions , thicknesses , and individualities of the lines ; the final revision will consist of an absolute intensity reproduction of the photographs .
II .
" On the Spectrum of Coggia 's Comet .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , For .
Sec. R.A.S. Received November 13 , 1874 .
[ Plate 6 .
] In the years 1866 , 1868 , and 1871 * I had the honour to communicate to the Royal Society some observations with the spectroscope of five small comets , including Encke 's comet at its return in 1871 .
These observations showed that a great part of the light of these comets was not reflected solar light , but light emitted by the matter of the comets .
Further , the coincidence which was found to exist , in the case of three of the comets , between the three bright bands into which their light was resolved by the prism and the spectrum of some compounds of carbon appeared to indicate the presence of that element , in some form , in the cometary matter .
The comet now visible , which was detected by M. Coggia , April 17,1874 , is the first bright comet to which the spectroscope has been applied .
The following spectroscopic observations of this comet were made from July 1 to July 15 .
When the slit of the spectroscope was placed across the nucleus and coma , there was seen in the instrument a broad spectrum , consisting of the three bright bands which were exhibited by Comet II .
, 1868 " f , crossed by a linear continuous spectrum from the light of the nucleus .
In the continuous spectrum of the nucleus I was not able to distinguish with certainty any dark lines of absorption , or any bright lines other than the three bright bands .
Besides these spectra , there was also present a faint broad continuous spectrum between and beyond the bright bands .
When the slit was moved on to different parts of the coma , the bright * Proc. Roy .
Soc. voL xyi .
p. 386 , toI .
six .
p. 490 , vol. xx .
p. 45 , and Phil. Trans. 1868 , p. 555 .
t Phil. Trans. 1868 , plate xxxiii .
I 375 .
] Spectrum of Coggia Comet .
155 aids and the faint continuous spectrum were observed to vary in relative density .
When the slit was brought back past the nucleus on to the commence-ent of the tail , the gaseous spectrum became rapidly fainter , until , at a lort distance from the nucleus , the continuous spectrum predominated \gt ; strongly that the middle band only , which is the brightest , could be etected on it .
We have presented to us , therefore , by the light of the comet three pectra:\#151 ; 1 .
The spectrum of bright bands .
2 .
The continuous spectrum of the nucleus .
3 .
The continuous spectrum which accompanies the gaseous spectrum u the coma , and which represents almost entirely the light of the tail .
1 .
The Spectrum of Bright Bands .
The three bright bands were obviously similar in position and character o those which were observed in Comet II .
, 1868 .
In that comet the mnds could not be resolved into lines ; but in the spectrum of the comet now under observation , on some occasions , especially during the early part of July , the three bands were partially resolved into lines .
The resolution of the bands was seen most distinctly at the boundary of the coma , where the continuous spectrum was very faint .
The bands appeared to me to be brighter relatively to the continuous spectrum during the early part of the time that the comet was under observation .
On July 7 , the bands were compared directly with the spectrum of the induction-spark taken in a current of olefiant gas .
I suspected a small shift of all three bands towards the more-refrangible end of the spectrum .
July 8.\#151 ; I made some measures of the want of coincidence of the less-refrangible edge of the middle and brightest band with the corresponding part of the band in the spectrum of the blue part of a small oil-flame .
Afterwards I found that the collimating lens had shifted during the taking of the measures .
I repeated the observations on July 13 .
On this day I estimated the shift of the brightest band to be about 5 of the distance of h8 to ha .
The other bands appeared to be similarly displaced in relation to the bands of the terrestrial spectrum .
The estimation of the amount of displacement was rendered more difficult by the circumstance that the cometary band was not so bright at the less-refrangible limit as was the band in the spectrum of the oil-flame .
With this exception , the relative brightness of the different parts of the bands agreed with the corresponding parts of the bands in the terrestrial spectrum .
On the supposition of the identity of the comet 's bands with those of the spectrum of carbon , the shift which was observed would indicate a Dr. W. Huggins on the [ Jan. 7 m relative motion of approach of the comet and the earth of about 40 miles per second , a velocity nearly double that of their actual relative motion .
According to a table of the comet 's motion , kindly furnished to me by Mr. Hind , F.R.S. , the comet was approaching the earth on that day with a velocity of about 24 miles per second .
The part of the earth 's orbital motion in the direction of the comet may be disregarded , as it was less than a mile per second .
In the foregoing observations the slit was placed on the brightest part of the envelope , close in front of the nucleus .
Was any part of the shift due to the motion of the matter within the comet ?
If the measures taken on July 8 , when the lens was found to have shifted , could be regarded as trustworthy , they would indicate a slightly larger shift on that day .
In connexion with the question whether the bright bands were furnished by a vapour containing carbon in some form , it is of importance to notice that the bright line near G- which accompanies the three bands in the spectrum of carbon and its compounds appears to be absent in the spectrum of the comet .
I took some pains to satisfy myself that this line was not to be detected in the comet 's spectrum .
If it had been present with the same relative brilliancy which it possesses in the terrestrial spectrum , I should have been able to see it easily .
The relative faintness or entire absence of this more-refrangible band might find its explanation possibly in the low temperature of the cometary matter .
: If the bands are to be considered as due to carbon , we have to inquire in what form the carbon exists in the matter of the comet .
In my paper on Comet II .
, 1868,1 pointed out that ' though some comets have been exposed to an intense degree of solar radiation , and though carbon might exist possibly in some condition more easily volatilized than those with which we are acquainted on the earth , " still , under the most favourable of known conditions , the solar heat to which the majority of comets are subjected would seem to be inadequate to the production of luminous vapour of carbon .
" I then stated that the necessity for a very high temperature would be diminished if we were to conceive of the existence .in the comet of a compound of carbon and hydrogen which could furnish those bands without undergoing decomposition .
The remarkable connexion of the orbits of comets with those of swarms of meteors , together with the presence of hydrocarbons in many meteorites , would seem to suggest the probability that , if carbon be present in comets , it exists-in combination with hydrogen .
I stated , in the paper quoted above , that the spectrum of bright bands was also obtained from cyanogen .
In the case of the hydrocarbons , the spectrum of bands was accompanied by the lines of hydrogen ; and when cyanogen was employed , the known complex spectrum of nitrogen was present .
A spectrum essentially the same , but less complete , was | 875.J Spectrum of Cog Comet .
157 \gt ; f )tained , together with the known lines of oxygen , when carbonic acid b ad carbonic oxide were employed .
2 .
The Continuous Spectrum of the Nucleus .
I was not able to satisfy myself of the existence in the continuous r aectrum of the nucleus of any dark lines , nor of any bright lines , other lian the three bright bands which have been described , i I found that the presence of the bright bands increased the relative bright-ess of the middle part of the linear continuous spectrum , so as to give an pparently smaller relative amplitude to the red and violet parts of the spec-rum .
This was particularly noticed to be the case during the first week of uly .
" When some breadth was given to the spectrum by means of a cylindrical lens , the bright bands were clearly distinguished in it , and then the !
elative brightness of different parts of the continuous spectrum was more i learly that of an ordinary incandescent body .
The blue end of the con-i inuous spectrum appeared to fail abruptly a little beyond G- , and I was tot able to trace the spectrum beyond this point .
I took this circum-[ tance at first to show the absence of the violet rays , and consequently .
low temperature in the nucleus .
Afterwards , when the solar spectrum \gt ; vas reduced to about the brightness of that of the comet , I observed a timilar apparent abrupt termination of light at the same part of the jpectrum , which is therefore a phenomenon due to the eye of the observer .
Although it is probable that the violet rays are absent , or at least not present with any great intensity in the light of the nucleus , this observation of the apparent failure of the spectrum a little beyond Gr cannot , by itself , be accepted as a trustworthy proof that such is really the case .
When the nucleus was examined in the telescope , it appeared as a well-defined minute point of light of great brilliancy .
I suspected at times a sort of intermittent flashing in the bright point .
The nucleus suggested to me an object on fire , of which the substance was not uniform in composition , so that at intervals it burned with a more vivid light .
On July 6th the diameter of the nucleus , when measured with a power of 800 , was 1"*8 .
On July 13th the measure was nearly double , viz. 3 " ; but at this time the point of light was less defined .
On July 15th the nucleus appeared elongated towards the following side of the comet , at an angle of about 40 ' to the comet 's axis .
The nucleus appeared of an orange-colour .
This may be due in part to the effect of contrast with the greenish light of the coma .
Sir John Herschel described the head of the comet of 1811 to be of a greenish or bluisb-green colour , while the central point appeared to be of a pale ruddy tint .
The elder Struve 's representations of Halley 's comet , at its appearance in 1835 , are coloured green , and the nucleus is coloured reddish yellow .
He describes the nucleus on October 9 thus , " Her Kern zeigte sich wie eine kleine , etwas ins gelbliche spielende , gliihende Kohle von langlicher Form .
" Dr. Winnecke describes similar colours in the bright 158 On the Spectrum of Coggia 's Comet .
[ Jan 7 comet of 1862 :\#151 ; " Die Farbe des Sfcrahls erscheint mir gelbrothlich ; die des umgebenden Nebels ( vielleicht aus Contrast ) mattblaulich .
... Die Farbe der Ausstromung erscheint mir gelblich ; die Coma hat blau-liches Licht .
" 3 .
The Continuous Spectrum which accompanies the Gaseous Spectrum .
| This spectrum was observed in every part of the coma ; near its boundary , and in the dark space behind the nucleus , the continuous spectrum became so faint as to be detected with difficulty , at the same time that the bright bands were distinctly visible .
The greater brightness of some parts of the envelopes and of the coma appeared to be due for the most part to the presence of a larger quantity of the matter which gives a continuous spectrum .
When the slit was placed on these brighter parts of the comet , the gaseous spectrum did not become brighter in the same degree , but there was an increase in the brightness of the continuous spectrum .
Behind the nucleus , the bright bands became fainter relatively to the accompanying continuous spectrum , until the brightest band only could be detected .
The more distant parts of the tail give probably a continuous spectrum only .
In the coma there was seen occasionally a remarkable inequality in the brightness of the continuous spectrum between the bands .
On some occasions the light between the first and second band was bright , while in the other parts of the spectrum the light was faint .
On several evenings I satisfied myself that polarized light was present in every part of the comet .
I do not think that the proportion of polarized light exceeded \#163 ; of the total light .
The polarization , as exhibited by the partial extinction of one of the images formed by a doubleimage prism , appeared to be more marked in the tail .
It must be remembered that such would appear to be the case to some extent even if the proportion were not really greater , because the same proportional diminution in a faint object is more appreciated by the eye .
Still there was probably a relatively large proportion of polarized light in the tail .
The reflected solar light would account for a large part of the continuous spectrum .
To what source are we to ascribe the remaining light which the prism resolves into a continuous spectrum ?
Is it due to reflection from discrete particles , too large relatively to the wave-lengths of the light for polarization to take place ?
or is it due to incandescent solid particles ?
From the coexistence of the band-spectrum , we can scarcely think of distinct masses of gas dense enough to give a continuous spectrum .
The difficulty which presents itself in accounting for sufficient heat to maintain this matter and the nucleus in a state of incandescence has also to be encountered in respect of the gaseous matter which emits the light which is resolved into the bright bands .
Huggins .
Proc. R-oy .
Soc. Voi / \gt ; / 875 .
] Prof. J. Tyndall on Acoustic .
159 The solar radiation to which the comet was subjected would be inade-iiate to account for this state of things directly .
Is there chemical nation set up withiin the comet by the sun 's heat ?
Is the comet 's light ue to electricity in any form excited by the effect of the solar radiation pon the matter of the comet ?
Are we to look for the source of the ght to the friction of the particles of the cometary matter which has even thrown into violent agitation by the comet 's approach to the sun ?
The comet was unfavourably situated for examination from my obser-atory , as it was seen on a background of sky illuminated by the lights f London ; and as it approached the horizon , it became partially concealed y the chimneys of some neighbouring houses .
Nearly the whole of the ime that the comet was visible was consumed in the observations with lie spectroscope ; and a few sketches only were made of the appearances ?
resented by theliead of the comet in the telescope .
The two sketches which accompany this note ( Plate 6 ) were made on ruly 13 and 14 .
On the latter evening the fainter parts of the coma , which are wanting in the sketch , were rendered invisible by the bright ?
ackground of sky .
Two of the phases presented by the intersection of he envelopes are shown in the sketches .
The narrow black channel \#166 ; lehind the nucleus passed on the right-hand side of the nucleus ( as seen n the telescope ) , where it terminated in a small round extension , presenting something of the appearance of a black pin , with its head by the side of the nucleus .
III .
" On Acoustic Reversibility .
" By J. Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 31 , 1874 .
On the 21st and 22nd of June , 1822 , a Commission appointed by the Bureau of Longitudes of Prance executed a celebrated series of experiments on the velocity of sound .
Two stations had been chosen , the one at Villejuif , the other at Monthery , both lying south of Paris , and 11*6 miles distant from each other .
Prony , Mathieu , and Arago were the observers at Villejuif , while Humboldt , Bouvard , and Gay-Lussac were at Monthery .
Guns , charged sometimes with 2 lbs. and sometimes with 3 lbs. of powder , were fired at both stations , and the velocity was deduced from the interval between the appearance of the flash and the arrival of the sound .
On this memorable occasion an observation was made which , as far as I know , has remained a scientific enigma to the present hour .
It was noticed that while every report of the cannon fired at Monthery was heard with the greatest distinctness at Villejuif , by far the greater number of the reports from Villejuif failed to reach Monthery .
Had wind existed , and had it blown from Monthery to Villejuif , it would

