356 Tubercular Swellings on Roots of Vicia Faba .
[ June 16 , that there is no constant distinction between the so-termed " dumb " and " furious " rabies .
4 .
That the initial virulence of street rabies is usually increased , and becomes remarkably constant , by passing through a series of rabbits .
5 .
That the activity of the virus is shown by the duration of the incubation period , to which it is inversely proportionate .
6 .
That the tissues of an infected animal do not themselves become infective till towards the end of the incubation period .
7 .
That of a large number of drugs which were tried , both germicides and those acting specifically upon the cerebro-spinal system , none materially modify the action of the virus in the rabbit .
8 .
That by a series of subcutaneous inoculations with virus treated by the methods of M. Pasteur , immunity , even against subsequent infection , cannot be conferred upon the rabbit ; and that the extreme and unexpected constitutional refractoriness of the dog to infection with rabies , by any method of inoculation\#151 ; as I have found it in the limited number of experiments I have been able to perform with this animal renders it extremely difficult to determine the effect of such remedial or prophylactic measures in it ; and that it is by the statistics of the treatment alone that their effect with man can be decided ; but that judging from the results of the experiments of others , the principle of the method as affirmed by M. Pasteur appears to be established , though unquestionably the " rapid " or " intensive " treatment , as I have found , is liable to produce infection .
III .
" On the Tubercular Swellings on the Roots of Vida FabaV By H. Marshall Ward , M.A. , F.L.S. , Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge , Professor of Botany in the Forestry School , Royal Indian College , Cooper 's Hill .
Communicated by Prof. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received May 29 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author gives a detailed account of his investigations , of which a preliminary note appeared at p. 331 .
The following are the main conclusions :\#151 ; The tubercles always contain a fungus , allied to the Ustilaginese , which enters the root by way of the root hairs .
The ultimate branches of the hyphge in the cells of the tubercle bud off minute bodies ( gem-mules ) , which are afterwards scattered in the soil .
This process resembles the budding discovered in Ustilagineas by Brefeld .
By means of cultures and observations the author shows that the infection from the soil is probably due to these minute gemmules acting as spores .

