]\gt ; On determining the Depth of the Sea .
Dhe folloving Papers vere r On determining the Depth of the Sea without the use of the le , and on an Attraction-mete By C. SIEMENS , D.C.L.2 F.R.S. , M.I.C.E. Received 1876 .
( Abstract .
) author starts the proposition that the total gravitation of the th , as measured on its nol'lnal surface , is composed of the cactiollS of all its , and that the attractive influence each equal varies directly as its density and invelsely as the square of its disfrom the point of mensurement .
density of ater being bout 1 , and that of the solid convents composing the crust of the earth about ( this being the l.an density of mountain-limestone , granite , basalt , slate , sandstone ) , i.ollows that an depth sea-water must exelcise a seIlsible :- luence upon total gravitation if meastlled on the surface of the sea .
amount of this influence is proved mathematically in considering , 1 the first place , the attractive value of thin slice of substance in a perpendicular to the 's radius , supposing the earth to be a sphere , ffected by centrifugal force , and of ulliform density .
The attl'ac.tion of each such slice is to be represented by the ression which represents the to the slice from the point of raction , and the total attraction of the slice .
In integrating this expression veen the limits and and and gives , which , for small values of , the faotor neglected , when formula assumes the form which represents the total ction d to the depth If A represents the total attraction of earth , the proporIt that if vater was without weight , the total the earth , ulcasured upon the -surface , diminish in the rtion of the depth to ; but the eight of into 318 Dr. C. W. Siemens on } , gravity would be found to diminish upon the sea-level in proportion the depth to , or as nearly .
The proportion would be strictly correct if the interior of the of the same density as surface-rock ; the coefficient here arrived has to be diminished in the proportion of the density of surface-rock to the mean density of the earth , or in the proportion of about the author considers it safer , vever , not to rely entirely upon these matical deductions in constructing his ] scale , which he prefers to base upon comparison with the sounding-line .
The author next describes a first attempt made by himself in 1859 to construct an instrument to indicnte upon a scale such slight riations in total as wouId result from the ordinary variations of depth below a vessel , the difficulties he then encountered .
These difficulties he has since succeeded in overcoming in adopting an instrument of another construction , which he proceeds to describe in detail , reference being to the accompanying drawings .
This instrument , which he proposes to call a Bathometer , consists essentially of a vertical column of melcury coutained in a steel tube havin cup-like extensions at both extremities , so as to increase the termiffi area of the .
The lower cup is closed by means of a colrugaM phragm of thin steel plate , and the weight of tlJe column of mercury is balanced in the of by ths stic force derived from two carefully tempered spiral steel springs of the same length as the column of mercurv .
One of the peculiarities of this mechanical arrangement is that it is parathermal , the diminishing elastic force of the springs with rise of temperature being compensated by a similar decrease of potential of the mercury column , which decrease depencls upon the proportions given to the areas of the steel tube and its cup-like extensions .
The instrument is suspended a short distance above its centre of gravity in a universal joint , in order to cause it to retain its vertical position , notwithstandiIlg the motion of the vessel ; and vertical oscillations of mercury are ahnost prevented local contraction of the mercolumn to a very small orifice .
The ding of the instrument is effected by means of electrical , which is established between the end of a micrometer-screw and he celltre of the elastic diaphragm .
The pitoh of the s and the } isions npon the rim are so proportioned that each represents the ltion of gravity due 10 one fathom of depth .
tions in atmospheric pressure no eflect upon the reading of this instrument ; but a correction has to be for variations of ntmospheric as ffecting the eight of the mercury column , hich correction might be oided , }vever , in excluding the atmosphere from both the upper and the lower of the mcrcurv , connectmg 876 .
] determining the Depth of the Sea .
extremities of the column .
The only necessary correction is that for titude , which it is asserted iu the must be less variable on the sea on land , ving to the bsence of masses elevated above the surface , owing to the greater distance of the irregular solid conituents of the and the very density of The paper tables of the result of actual observations of the strument in vice crossing the Atlantic on board the mship Fara ' whils she was engaged upon cables .
The the instrument were checked by actual soundings taken means of ir William Thomson 's vire sapparatus ; and the comparesults agree in all cases as closely as could have been expected , )nsidering that the soullding-line gives the depth immediately below the essel , whereas the bathometer the mean depth taken over a certain rea , depending for extent upon the depth itself ; it is also that pon an even slope the two instruments may be expected to agree in their ldications .
It is thought that the bathometer may lender useful service to the lariner in warning him of changes of depth long before reachiug danerous ground .
An example is recorded where the position of the end of submarine cable in deep water found simply from knowledge of be depth in which the end had been lost ; and ib is how the posiion of a vessel , when no astronomical observations can be taken , may be scertained by the aid of a bathometer , ided the contour-lines of equal epths of oceanic basins accurately lnid down .
The instrument is applicable for measuring tions above seaevel ; and it is that for height the total action of the earth aries in the ratio of that therefore approximately the -readings at sen may be or gs in measuring height ; but that in this last application Jlowance will have to be made , in additioJl to corrections for latitude , for he local attraction of the elevated land itself , varying with its breadth , md rendering the indicationls of the instrument for less reliable for depth of sea .
\mdash ; On an Attraction-meter .
Received February lS76 .
At the reading of the foregoing , the uthor exhibited an instrument for measuriug horizontal attractions , which , at the same time , trates the action of the bathometer .
instrument cousists of a horizontal tube of wrought iron 400 .
loug , terminating each end in a horizontal transverse tube of cast iron of 60 millims. diameter and 300 hims .
long .
The first-named horizontal tube is .
closed at its ends , and commu1licates with the transYerse bubble of air , which can be made to occupy a central position in the tube by raising or lowering the set screws .
If a weighty object is approached to either extremity of the tube an attractive influence will be exercised upon the mercury , tending to a rise of leve ] in the reservoir near at hand , at the expense of the moro distam reservoir ; and this disturbance of level betweenthe two reservoirs must exercise a effect upon the index of air in the horizontal glass tube , moving it ) from the source of attraction .
amount of this movement must be proportionate to the attractive foroe thus exercised , and is considerable , because the transverse cross section of each reservoir-tube is square millims. , whereas the tion of the glass tube is only about 3 milJims .
; the motion produced by the effect of gravity is thus increased 3000-fold , and could easily be increased , say 30,000-fold , by simply increasing the horizontal area of transverse or reservoir-tubes .
Variations of temperature have no upon this instrument , because the liquids contained on either side of index of air are precisely the same in amount ; the total expansion of the liquids is compensated for by an open stand-tube rising up from the centre of the connecting-tube , through which the apparatus can be easily filled .
By means of this instrument the eflect of 1 cwt .
approached to one end or the other of the mercury connecting-tube causes a sensible motion of the air-index .
It is suggested that an instrument of this description may be employed usefully for suring and recording the attractive influsnces of the sun and moon which give rise to the tides .
The instrument , which is of simple and not liable to derangement from any cause , would have to be placed upon a sohd foundation with its connecting-tube pointing east and west , records being either by noting the position of the index upon the graduated below , or by means of a self-recording arrangement through This mode of multiplying the effect oduced by gravitation is shovn as applicable also to the bathometer ; and the author one of these instruments fitted with a spiral tube horizontally upon the upper of the bathometer upon a divided sc , which horizontal tube is connected at one end with the uppermost chamber of ) the bathometer above the mercury , while other end remains open to the atmosphere .
The space above the mercury in the upper chamber is On Currents and Temperalure Ocean .
f ) lled by preference oil , which terminates in ths horizontal spiral lass tube at a point which will vary the total influence the earth , and thus furnish a means of reading the .
The lectric contact arrangement described in the paper is thus rendered unecessary , and the rettding of the instrument much simplified .
I. " " On uments for Recording the Direction and Velocity of Currents and the Temperature of the Water at different Depths in the Ocean By J. RYMER of the Imperial Government raphs , Japan .
Communicated by Prof. RYIIER JONES , F.R.S. Received January 1 , 1876 .
I The object of these instruments is to inter on 1st .
The direction of lrrents which at depths in the oceall .
ndly .
elocity of those rdly .
The ture of the sea at all points between the surface and bottom , ithout the struments to be hauled up in order to inter the results .
The of such results , if capable of obtained , must I ppear ident ; and the description ill , I hope , the racticability of those lnethods hich I propose to adopt in order to rrive at the above desiderata .
All three instruments are based on ciples .
Diag .
1 .
fig. 1 epreseJJts a ection of ument mployed for makin ations of the direction of Ctlrrents ; lowing at depths the sea ; and in the part of the same igure is shown the method for taking the tcmperatures the same oints ; but as the description of this instrument form a separate raph , I shall dismiss it for the present with the remark that the $ am le ires are used in connexion with both instrumenfs .
In the best method for intering the direction of deepcurrents , things seem absolutely necessar.:\mdash ; lst , some point apable of taking up fixed direction and uninfluenced b.v the curlents ; ndly , a able point .
up the direction of , and regnlated b.v , current hose direction is these it appeared easy to at the direction of the rellfs , by the angle between fixed point the with the direction of the current .
It is olcar that the only fixed point is that afforded by the ring magnet , } the employment of a sufficiently large cause the instrument to fake up a position in the direction of the current , the rest being only matter of detail , I now proceed to discuss .
In order to keep the magnet in a perfect ntaJ I ) and unVOL .
XX I

