]\gt ; Prof. Cayley on the [ Nov. 16 , applicable the range of Kirchhoff 's lines , and actually to apply the corrections to those computed wave-lengths which relate to spectral lines produced by the atmosphere and many metals .
Adopting as foundation the comparisons with Angstrom 's and Ditschei 's measures given in the former paper , and laying these down graphically , the author remarks that in some parts of the speclrum the agreement of the two experimenters is very close , that in some parts they are irreconcilable , and that in one part ( where they agree ) there is a peculianty which leads to the supposition that some important change was made in Kirchhoff 's adjustments .
He then explains the considerations on which he has drawn a correction-curve , whose ordinates are to give the corrections applicable to his former computed numbers .
A general table of corrections is then given , and this is followed by tables of the Lengths of the Light-Waves for the air and metals as corrected by the quantities deduced from that general table .
The author remarks that he has not yet succeeded in discovenng any relation among the wave-lengths fur the various lines given by any one metal \amp ; c. which can suggest any mechanical explanation of their origin . .
" " Corrections and Additions to the Memoir on the Theory of Reciprocal Surfaces , Phil. Trans. vol. clix .
( 1869 ) By Prof. , F.R.S. Received July 22 , 1871 .
1 .
I am indebted to Dr. Zeuthen for the remark that although the " " offpoints\ldquo ; and ' ' plaoes , \ldquo ; as explained in the memoir , are real singularities , they are not the singularities to which the of the formulae refer .
The most collvenient way of correcting this is to retain all the formulae with as they stand , but to write for the number of ' ' off-points\ldquo ; and " " off-planes\ldquo ; respectively ; .
we thus have , off-points , , unexplained ular points , and , off-planes , , unexplained singular planes , the formulae as they stand , taking account of the unexplained singularities and , but not taking any account at all of the off-points and off-planes .
The extended formulae in which these are taken into account , , , which iginal formulae ( A ) and ( B ) .
Theory of Reciprocal Surfaces .
2 .
In the formulae it is assumed that the nodal curve has no ttctual multiple points other than the triple points , and no stationary points other than the points which lie on the cuspidal curve ; and similarly that the cuspidal cve has uo actual multiple points , and no stationary points other than the points which lie on the nodal curve ; and this being so , is the class of the nodal curve and of the cuspidal curve .
But we may takc the formulae as universally true ; maybe consideredas standing for and as standing for ; only then and are uot iu all cases the classes of the two curves respectively .
3 .
In the formulae No. 6 et seq. , the new singularity , we have as follows : \mdash ; ; and substituting these in } for its valuc have , as the memoir , ; viz. there is no term in Vriling in the equations which contain , these becomc ( Salmon 's equations ( C ) ) ; and adding to each equation the corequat , factor these become Writing in the first of these , and reducin .
other by means of the values cf } The reciprocal of the first of is ; ylcy on the [ Nov. 16 , , this is ; it thus appears that the order of the lode curve is reduced by 3 for each off-plane 4 .
to the other two equations , writing for their values , these become equations which admit of a geometrical interpretation .
In fact when here is only a nodal curve , the first equation is which we may erify when nodal curve is a ) intersection , ; for if the equation of the snrface is , where the degrees of respectively , then the pinch-points by the equations , AC-B2 and the of ) oints is thus ; but for the curve we have , and ifs order and class , or the mula is tbus verified .
when there is only a cuspidal curve , the second equation is which may be erified when the cuspidal curve is a complete intersection , ; the surface here where AC-B2 , and the ] ) oints are given as the intersec tions of the curve with the surface Now vanishing for we must have , where vanish for ; and thence where M vanish for .
The equation iting therein , thus becomes ; and its intersectio1ls with the curve fire the points each three times , and the points each ttvice ; viz. they are the points But if the degree of is } the degrees of are whence the degree of is , and the number of points is , .
this is , or it is ; so that being , the equation is verified .
5 .
It also pointed out to me by Dr. Zeuthen that in the value of given in No. 10 the ternnvolving should be in stead 1871 .
] of Reciprocal faces .
nnd that in ence the coefficients of erroneous in several others of the formulae .
Correcting these .
and the same time introducing the terms in , itnd down also the terms in as they stand , we hare The equations of No. 11 used afterwards , No. 53 , should thus be ; and from these I deduce 6 .
In No. 32 we have ( without alteration ) ; but in the application ( Nos. 40 and 41 ) to the surface we have , and there are off-points , , and .
The new tions involving thus satisfied , 7 .
I have ascertained that the value of obtained , Nos. 51 to 64 of the memoir , is inconsistent with that obtained in the " " Addition\ldquo ; by consition of the deficiency , and that it is in fact incorrect .
The reason is that , although , stated No. 53 , the values of two of the coefficients may be assumed at pleasure , they cannot , in conjunction with a given system of values of , be thus assumed at ) leisure ; viz. being , 272 , 44 respectively .
the values of are really determinate .
I have no direct investigation , but by working back from the formula in the Addition I find that we must have ; the values of the remaining coeIfficients then are ; or the formul is ; 26 On the of Surfaces .
[ Nov. 16 , but I have not as yet any means of the coefficients of the terms in From the several cases of a cubic surface we obtain as in the memoir ; but to the same surfaces the reciprocal for , instead of the results of the memoir , we find , that also given cnbic scroll ) .
And combining the two sets of results , we have , , ; but the coefficients are still undetcrmined .
To make the with that of the , I assume ; whence we have OB ' ; and if we substitute herein the foregoing of , we obtain which , except as to the terms in , the coefficients of which are not determined , agrees with the value given in the Addition .
Dr. Zeuthen considers that in general ; I presume this is so , but have not verified it .

