A paper was in part read , entitled " On the Anatomy and Physiology of Salpa and Pyrosoma .
" By Thomas H. Huxley , Esq. Communicated by Ed. Forbes , Esq. , F.R.S. Received February 26 , 1851 .
March 27 , 1851 .
SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON , V.P. , in the Chair .
The reading of Mr. Huxley 's paper " On the Anatomy and Physiology of Salpa and Pyrosoma , " commenced at the previous meeting , was concluded .
The object of the author in the present paper is to inquire into the true nature of the singular phenomena of reproduction in the Salpce , whose existence was first demonstrated by Chamisso twenty years ago , and which have formed the basis of the theory of " alternate generations .
" The author refers to M. Krohn as the only n riter who has previously entered thoroughly into this subject ; but while he bears testimony to the extreme accuracy of M. Krohn 's statements , he submits that , as the latter are published in a very condensed form only , and without figures , they cannot affect any value that may attach to his own independent researches .
The forms of Salpa examined were the S. democratica and S. mucronata .
The author first describes their outward form , and shows that they are so different in appearance and in some points of organization , as to fully warrant the assumption ( if they belonged to any other family ) that they are different species .
He then proceeds to describe the various organs in detail ; first , however , discussing the proper nomenclature of the sides and ends of these animals , a subject on which much confusion has prevailed .
Particular attention is called to the existence of an organ hitherto undescribed-a cylindrical , elongated body , like an internal shell , -here termed the " endostyle , " which lies in the dorsal sinus , and has hitherto been confounded with the 6 " dorsal folds " of Savigny .
A peculiar system of delicate transparent vessels , taking its origin in the stomach and ramified over the intestine , is described and its nature inquired into .
The organs of reproduction are next inquired into .
The young in the Salpa democratica constitute a " Salpa-chain , " and are shown to arise by gemmation from a tubular diverticulum of the vascular system of the parent .
In the course of their development they take the form of the S. mucronata .
The young in the Salpa mucronata again is shown to be solitary , and attached to one point of the respiratory chamber of the parent by an organ which exactly represents in its structure a rudimentary mammiferous placenta , except that in the Salpae the " villus " is formed by the maternal system , the " placental cell " by the foetal system .
But the foetus here is not produced by gemmation , as in the preceding case , but by a true process of sexual generation .
Every Salpa mucronata contains at one period of its existence a solitary ovum , and a testis , which is a ramified gland surrounding the intestine , and hitherto confounded with the liver .
The solitary ovum becomes fertilised , pushed out into the respiratory cavity of the parent , and remains connected with the latter until it has assumed the form of the Salpa democraticca , when it becomes detached .
Chamisso 's formula therefore , " that the parent Salpa produces an offspring different from itself , which again produces an offspring different from itself but similar to its parent , " is perfectly correct , only the word " produce " has two meanings-in the one case signifying a process of gemmation , in the other of true sexual generation .
The author next proceeds to describe the anatomy of Pyrosoma , and to:point out its general harmony with that of Salpa .
ie shows the existence of an endostyle-a system of ramified intestinal tubules-and of oither organs precisely resembling those described in the latter genus .
The " hepatic organ " of Savigny is the testis , while the female generative organ consists of solitary pedicillate ova .
The arrangement of their parts is essentially the same as in Salpa , only that the foetus does not appear to be developed in placental connexion with the parent .
The Pyrosomata increase by gemmation also , but the gemmm are solitary and do not form chains , becoming developed like those of the ordinary compound Ascidians between the pre-existing forms .
In the next section , the zoological relations of the Salpee and Pyrosomata , with the other Ascidians , are inquired into .
The author endeavours to show that there is no essential difference of organization between the ordinary Ascidians and the Salpce ; that the two forms grade insensibly one into the other ; and that there is , therefore , no ground for breaking up the great ascidian family into the two subdivisions of Monochitonida and Dichitonida .
With regard to the theory of the " alternation of generations , " the author submits that it is by no means a proper expression for the phenomenon presented by the Salpce .
According to the author 's view , the two forms of Salpa are not two generations of distinct individuals , but are , properly speaking , organs , and only when taken together , equivalent to an individual , in the sense in which that term is used among the higher animals .
For these pseudo-individuals , in this and all analogous cases , the author proposes the name of " zooids , " simply for the purpose of avoiding the apparent paradox of calling these highly-organized independent forms " organs , " though such , in the author 's opinion , they really are .

