160 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On the Indices of Refraction [ Dec. 12 , December 12 , 1895 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Pursuant to notice , Professor Albert Graudry , Professor F. Kohl-rausch , Professor S. P. Langley , Professor Sophus Lie , and Professor E. Metschnifcoff were balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. On the Determination of the Indices of Refraction of various Substances for the Electric Ray .
I. Index of Refraction of Sulphur .
" By Professor J. C. Bose , B.A. ( Cantab .
) , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received October 20 , 1895 .
The indices of refraction of transparent substances have been determined by the usual optical methods .
There is still a large number of substances like the various rocks , wood , brick , coal-tar , and others which are not transparent to light , so that their indices could not be obtained .
These substances are , however , transparent to electric radiation .
and the present investigation was undertaken to find a direct method of determining their indices with a sufficient amount of accuracy .
Even in the case of optically transparent substances , the indices are only known for the narrow range of light waves .
For greater wave lengths , the index is inferred from Cauchy 's formula .
Professor Langley has , however , shown that this formula fails to give trustworthy results when applied to the dark radiations in the infra-red portion of the spectrum .
It does not , therefore , seem at all likely that the above formula will give accurate results when applied to the electric radiation .
For the determination of the index for the electric ray , the prism method is unsuitable .
In the well-known Hertz 's experiment with the pitch prism , the deviation of the refracted rays extended from 11 ' to 34 ' .
The approximate value of \#151 ; 1'69 , obtained from this experiment , is probably higher than the true value by about 15 to 20 per cent. 1895 .
] of various Substances for the Electric Ray .
For the accurate measurement of deviation , the effect produced by radiation on the receiver should undergo an abrupt variation .
When the radiation passes from a dense to a light medium , at a certain critical angle of incidence , the radiation is totally reflected .
From the critical angle the index of refraction is easily determined .
The great advantage of this method lies in the fact that the transition from refraction to total reflection is very sudden .
I have determined the fi of various substances for the electric ray , by the method of total reflection .
It will be seen from the results of the experiments , that this method is capable of giving very good results .
The refracting substance is cut out or cast in the form of a semicylinder , and mounted on the central table of a spectrometer ; the electric ray is directed towards the centre of the spectrometer , and its direction is always kept fixed .
It strikes the curved surface and passes into its mass without any deviation .
It is then incident on the plane surface of the semi-cylinder , and is refracted into the air beyond .
The incident angle on the plane surface is increased or decreased by rotating the central table on which the cylinder rests .
In practice , it is more convenient to commence the experiment with an angle of incidence greater than the critical angle , the incident ray being then Fig. 1 .
totally reflected .
The angle of incidence is slowly decreased till the critical value is reached .
At this point the ray is all at once refracted into the air , making an angle of 90 ' with the normal to the surface .
If a receiver be fixed against the side of the semi-cylinder at R , it will now respond to the refracted radiation .
The platform on which the cylinder rests , carries the usual index .
By alternately rotating the platform in one direction or the other , and observing the position of the index when the receiver just responds , the reading for the critical angle is obtained with great 162 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On the Indices of Refraction [ Dec. 12 , accuracy .
The receiver is now placed at R ' , and the cylinder rotated in the opposite direction till total reflection again takes place .
The difference between the first and second readings is evidently eqnal to twice the critical angle .
To utilise only the central rays , a metallic screen with a small central opening is placed against the plane face of the semi-cylinder .
In order that all the rays should undergo total reflection simultaneously , it is necessary that the rays incident on the plane of separation of the two media should be parallel .
This is effected by the cylinder itself .
From the approximate value of / t found from a preliminary experiment , the focal distance of the semi-cylinder is roughly calculated .
The spark-gap of the radiator is placed at this focus , and the rays thus rendered very near parallel .
Each subsequent experiment gives a more accurate value of fi , and from the corrected value of the focal distance thus obtained , a more accurate adjustment is made for the next experiment .
Apparatus Used .
The apparatus used consists of an electric radiator emitting short waves , a large graduated circle provided with a central circular platform on which the refracting substance is placed , and a receiver , which responds to the electric radiation .
The Radiator.\#151 ; I have given a detailed description of the electric radiator in my paper on polarisation of electric rays ( vide Journal , Asiatic Society of Bengal , Part 2 , No. 2 , 1895 ) .
Electric oscillation is produced by sparking between two metallic beads and an interposed metallic sphere 1 cm .
in diameter .
By a single sudden break of the primary in a RuhmkorfFs coil , a flash of radiation is emitted .
The spark gap is placed at one end of a brass tube 5 cm .
in diameter .
By a sliding arrangement , the length of the tube may be varied .
The Ruhmkorff 's coil is enclosed in a copper box .
The Circle.\#151 ; The circle has a diameter of 45 cm .
, and is graduated into degrees , but one-fourth of a degree may be easily estimated .
The circle , as a whole , may rotate round a vertical axis which passes though the centre of a massive stand .
There is a raised circular platform at the centre of the circle on which the refracting substance is placed .
This platform carries an index , and may be rotated independently of the large circle .
When the platform index is clamped , the two circles rotate together .
The Refracting Substance.\#151 ; \#163 ; For substances which can be cast , the molten mass is poured into a cylindrical mould with a thin partition in the middle .
In this way two equal semi-cylinders are obtained at each casting .
Substances like wood or stone are turned , and the cylinder sawn into two eqnal halves .
In my experiments different sized cylinders were used .
I have successfully used small ones with 1895 .
] of various Substances for the Electric .
163 a radius of 8 cm .
only .
But when the cost of the material is not prohibitive , it is advisable to use fairly large cylinders .
The cylinders used in the following experiments were 27'4 cm .
in diameter , and 10 cm .
or more in height .
For liquids , the cylindrical glass trough used , has a diameter of 25 cm .
The tube of the radiator is fixed and points to the centre of the graduated circle .
The vertical central line of the cylinder passes through the centre of the circular platform .
The Receiver.\#151 ; The receiver is a modified form of the coherer .
In a rectangular niece of ebonite a narrow groove is cut out .
In this groove bits of coiled steel springs are arranged side by side , only one layer deep .
In this way a linear receiver is constructed with a sensitive surface 2 cm .
in length and 4 mm. in breadth .
By means of a screw , the springs may be gradually compressed , reducing the resistance .
The coherer is in a circnit with an aperiodic D'Arsonval galvanometer and a copper-iron cell .
The galvanometer has a resistance of 300 ohms , and the voltaic cell has an E.M.F. of about 0 45 volt .
A Daniell cell is sometimes used , with a resistance box as a shunt ; the E.M.F. may thus be adjusted to suit the sensitiveness of the receiver .
When the spiral spring coherer is freshly made , it is over sensitive .
On the second day it settles down to a fair condition , though at first for about half an hour its action is rather unsteady .
But afterwards the sensitiveness becomes fairly uniform .
It will maintain this state under favourable conditions for nearly an hour ; after which it begins to lose its sensitiveness .
It must also be borne in mind that the sparking balls are also undergoing deterioration .
The sensitiveness of the coherer may be partially restored by subjecting it to electric radiation at close quarters , and slightly raising the E.M.F. of the circuit .
In this way it is sometimes possible to work continuously for about two hours ; but greater weight should of course be given to the first sets of observations , which are taken at a time when the receiver is most sensitive .
It is superfluous to add that special precautions should be taken to guard against the disturbance due to stray radiations .
The walls of the room , the table , even the person of the experimenter himself may act as reflectors , scattering the rays in all directions .
I spent a considerable time in trying to find a substance that will act as a good absorber .
Lamp black is useless , as it reflects copiously .
Blotting paper soaked in water or copper sulphate solution does produce a certain amount of absorption ; but even with these a certain amount of reflection is found to take place .
By proper screening , the disturbance due to stray radiations may , however , be got rid of .
The radiating apparatus , with the exception of a tubular opening , is completely enclosed in a metallic box .
The radiator tube extends right up to the refracting cylinder .
The 164 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On the Indices of Refraction [ Dec. 12 , leading wires from the coherer are enclosed in a double coating of tin-foil .
Method of Experiment .
I first tried to determine the index of refraction of sulphur .
The material used was ordinary commercial sulphur .
A semi-cylinder was made , and the two positions for total reflection determined by the method which has already been described .
The difference of readings found for the two positions varied from 69 ' to 71 ' and the value of the critical angle would from these experiments seem to lie between 34*5 ' and 35 ' .
This approximate value for the critical angle having been obtained , the experiment was modified to secure a greater amount of accuracy .
Two equal semi-cylinders P and Q were taken and placed on the rotating table face to face , with an air film between .
A metallic plate with a narrow rectangular opening was also interposed between Fio .
2 .
the semi-cylinders to serve as a diaphragm and cut off all but the central rays .
When the spark gap is placed at O , the principal focus of P , the rays emerge parallel into the air film , and are then focussed by the second cylinder at an equal distance f on the other side .
The spark gap is placed at O , and the receiver at O ' , 00 ' being extremities of a diameter passing through the centre of the circle .
The air film is for convenience placed parallel to the index .
The platform carrying the cylinders is now rotated , say to the left .
Fio .
3 .
( The dotted lines represent the two positions of the air film for total reflection .
) 1895 .
] of various Substances for the Electric Ray .
165 The angle of incidence is thus gradually increased , till the rays just undergo total reflection .
When this is the case the receiver ceases to respond .
Let A be the corresponding reading of the platform index .
A stationary index I ' is now placed opposite the reading A of the graduated circle .
When the cylinder is rotated in the opposite direction a second reading B for the critical angle is obtained .
It is obvious that , neglecting errors , A\#151 ; B is equal to twice the critical angle .
The platform index is now clamped and the circle as a whole is rotated till B comes opposite to the fixed index I ' .
The circle is now clamped , the platform arm unclamped , and the central table rotated till another reading C for the critical angle is obtained .
Then , as in the previous case , B\#151 ; C \#151 ; 2 i , where i is the critical angle .
The circle as a whole is now rotated till C comes opposite the fixed index .
Fiu .
4 .
R , the Radiator ; C , the Coherer .
Thus at each successive operation the circle is rotated past the fixed index through 2 i.The successive difference of readings of the circle in reference to the fixed outside index , thus gives a series of values of 2 i. The result will be more accurate if we take the mean readings i(A + B ) , i(B + C ) , _______ , and take their differences .
Successive readings are taken*till the graduated circle is rotated as neai as possible through 360 ' .
As has been said before , there are two semi-cylinders P and Q. In the first set of experiments P is turned towards the radiator , Q acting as a focussing lens .
The circle at each successive operation moves in a right-handed direction .
In the second set of experiments Q is turned towards the radiator , P acting as the converging lens .
Successive readings are taken as before , the circle now rotating in a Ift-handed direction .
Indices of Refraction for the Electric Ray .
[ Dec. 12 , It will be observed that the final results obtained from the two sets are freed from many of the unavoidable errors .
I give below the results of two sets of experiments each extending through eleven observations .
The receiver was in an unusually good condition for nearly an hour , and during that time I took six observations with P to the front and six more with Q in the same position .
As the receiver continued to remain in a fairly responsive condition I took five more for each set .
As I have said already , greater weight should be given to the first two sets of six readings , as being taken under the most favourable conditions .
In the first two lines are given ten successive differences of the mean readings , taken with the cylinders P and Q. P ... .
71 70 70-5 70-5 70-5 70 69-5 69'5 69-5 70 = 701 Q ... .
70 70 71 71 70 71 71 70 70 69-5 = 703-5 .
_ 702-25 ~ 2X10 35-11 , y Mean 1-738 .
702-25 The following are the readings in degrees for the first six sets of observations with P or Q. P. a. 1 .
1 144 2 ... .
144 74 4 4 ... .
( 360)+4 293 5 .
... .
293 223 6 ... .
223 152 Q. c. d. 1 ... .
308 360 + 18 2 ... .
18 88 158 4 ... .
158 230 5 ... .
230 300 6 ... .
300 360 + 10 Mean .
Difference .
70-5 70-5 70-5 352-5 ... .
A. Mean .
Difference .
352-0 ... .
B. Mean of A\#151 ; B = 352-25 .
352-25 2 X 5~ i 35 22 , fi = 1-734 .
1805 .
] Structure , Organisation , Sfc .
, of Fossil Eeptilia .
187 If we take the differences between 1 and 4 , 2 and 5 , 3 and 6 , we get the following four sets of values for a , b , c , and p. Q. Difference between a. b. c. d. 1 and 4 ... . . .
212 211 210 212 2 and 5 ... . . .
211 211 212 212 3 and 6 ... . . .
211 212 212 212 634 Mean = 634 634-5 .
634 636 i \#151 ; 6345 = 35-25 , fi = 6X3 1-733 .
From the results given above it would appear that the index of refraction of sulphur is very near 1'73 .
The method adopted thus seems to be capable of giving accurate results ; no large quantity of material is required .
The method is also well suited for liquids .
The determination of the indices of other solids and liquids are in progress .
I shall give an account of these in a future communication .
II .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part X. On the complete Skeleton of an Anomodont .
Reptile ( .
Wiedersheim ) , from the Bunter Sandstone of Reihen , near Basel , giving new Evidence of the Relation of the Anomo-dontia to the Monotremata .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received November 7 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) With the co-operation of the Trustees of the University Museum of Basel and Professor Riitimeyer , the author has examined the fossil described by Dr. Robert Wiedersheim in 1878 as don Rutimeyeri .
The bones are differently interpreted:\#151 ; The reputed humerus is the interclavicle .
The reputed scapula is the humerus .
The reputed supra-scapula is the left coracoid .
The reputed supra-scapula is the right scapula .
The reputed right and left coracoids are the pre-coracoid and coracoid of the right side .
The reputed clavicles are the ribs .
Five digits are identified in place of four in 1878 .

