430 Dr. G. W. C. Kaye and Mr. W. F. Higgins .
Emission of The change in the character of the series in passing from arc to spark spectra suggests the possibility of further change in the same direction , leading to series which would require nine times the ordinary series constant in the formulae representing them .
A preliminary examination of terrestrial and celestial spectra , however , has given no indications of the existence of such series .
The Emission of Electricity from various Substances at High Temperatures .
By G. W. C. Kaye , B.A. , D.Sc .
, and W. F. Higgins , B.Sc. ( Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1914 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory .
) Intkoductoky .
In previous papers* an account was given of experiments in which ionisation currents of great magnitude were obtained from carbon at high temperatures .
It was remarked that the largest currents appeared to be associated with the expulsion ( at about 2000 ' C. ) of impurities , such as silica , alumina and iron , which are always present in commercial carbon .
Such a result is perhaps not surprising in view of Wehnelt'sf work on the alkaline earths and their large electronic emissivity when raised to a white heat , as for example in a Wehnelt cathode .
Furthermore , Sir J. J. Thomson !
showed some years ago that oxides , when raised to a red heat in a crucible , gave out an excess of negative electricity , the most copious streams coming from the oxides of calcium and barium .
S The currents generated were such as were readily indicated by an electroscope .
The present experiments ( which were carried out some months ago ) were undertaken , in the first instance , to investigate the behaviour of the alkaline * Harker and Kaye , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 86 , p. 379 ( 1912 ) ; A , vol. 88 , p. 522 , ( 1913 ) .
King ( ' Astrophys .
Jour .
, ' Nov. , 1913 , p. 330 ) has since repeated some of the experiments at Mount Wilson in connection with his work on " tube-arc " spectra .
t Wehnelt , 'Ann .
d. Phys. , ' vol. 14 ( 4 ) , p. 425 ( 1904 ) , and 'Phil .
Mag. , ' July ( 1905 ) .
See also Jentzscli , 'Ann .
d. Phys. , ' vol. 28 , p. 537 ( 1909 ) .
J J. J. Thomson , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 14 , p. 105 ( 1906 ) .
S Prof. Thomson showed further that when various salts were heated , the sign of the resulting electrification was the same as that produced by friction of the dry salt when cold .
Electricity from Various Substances at High Temperatures .
431 earths when raised to the very high temperatures attainable in a carbon resistance-furnace .
The scope of the experiments was afterwards extended a little to include a number of other materials .
At temperatures as high as those we have used , apparently all bodies emit considerable amounts of electricity ; and graphite , the only convenient refractory substance available for constructional work at very high temperatures , shows the effect to a high degree .
We have therefore had to resort to a difference-method , the procedure adopted being to measure the electrical emission from a particular substance when it was heated in a graphite crucible , and then to repeat the experiment , under the same conditions , with the same or a similar crucible when empty .
As the crucible , in some cases , absorbed the fused material and thus became permanently contaminated , the reverse order was , as a rule , the more convenient .
For each material tested , a new crucible was substituted .
The temperatures employed ranged from about 2000 ' to 2500 ' C.\#151 ; high enough , in every case , to volatilise rapidly the substance under test .
In all the experiments , two independent circuits were utilised to measure the ionisation .
In one of these , the ionisation current was measured between the crucible containing the evaporating substance and the furnace wall .
For the other circuit , an additional carbon electrode was permanently mounted in the furnace ( see fig. 1 ) .
The carbon electrode was hollow and Nitrogen ExitVV.xf-er .
Coo led Brxss Tube , 'Carbon Rod carried on $ I'ding Carriage Ni frooen Inler " Cold* ' Electrode / Graphite Crucible Furnace Tube wit-h Liner Tube Fig. 1.\#151 ; Showing carbon-tube furnace and electrodes .
contained an inner brass tube cooled by a rapid stream of water .
There was thus a considerable difference of temperature between the electrode and the furnace-tube , and this temperature-difference evidenced itself in the form of a steady ionisation current across the atmosphere of the furnace , the current-measurer being joined to the furnace-tube and electrode .
The object of the cooled electrode was to see if the introduction of the substance under test affected the degree of ionisation in the furnace atmosphere ; whereas any effect due to evaporation of the material or to chemical reactions in the crucible would naturally be recorded in the circuit containing the crucible .
432 Dr. G. W. C. Kaye and Mr. W. F. Higgins .
Emission of In no case was any electromotive force applied : the currents recorded were entirely unaided other than by the conditions in the furnace .
Nor are the effects due to any kind of rectification or leakage from the alternating current Cooled Eleclrode Movable Crucible M i II i m eker Two Sw i hcb Furnace Tube Fig. 2.\#151 ; Electrical connections .
used to heat the furnace : the phenomena persisted , if to a somewhat less extent , when the heating current was momentarily shut off .
Apparatus .
The general arrangements are shown in fig. 1 .
The carbon furnace-tube was about 75 cm .
long , of which a central portion , about 36 cm .
long , was subjected , to the heating current .
The internal diameter of the tube was 30 mm. and the thickness of wall 4 mm. A number of the materials tested were found to react with the furnace-tube , with results disastrous to its longevity .
To obviate the nuisance of repeatedly mounting a new furnace-tube , the plan was adopted , in the later experiments , of inserting a thin carbon tube as an inner lining to the furnace .
This liner-tube was renewed from time to time as occasion required .
The ends of the furnace-tube were closed with graphite caps , through the sides of which passed small tubes providing ingress and egress for a stream of nitrogen gas .
The nitrogen served to check the oxidation of the carbon tube , while the current of gas prevented the formation of condensed " cobwebs " of material across the furnace-tube , to the detriment of measurements of both ionisation and temperature .
The crucible consisted of a short length of graphite tube ( about 5| mm. internal diameter ) mounted horizontally at the end of a carbon rod , the open end of the crucible pointing towards the cold electrode , as shown in fig. 1 .
The carbon rod was supported on a sliding carriage , and the crucible passed in and out of the furnace through a hole in a mica window .
Results .
Among the substances tested were the alkaline earths ( BaO , CaO , SrO , MgO ) , soda-lime , alumina ( A1203 ) , oxide of iron ( Fe203 ) , silica ( sand ) , and the metals , tin , copper , aluminium , iron , and brass .
Usually the substance Electricity from Various Substa7ices at High Temperatures .
433 was in a state of powder .
In most instances , the effect of suddenly introducing the various substances into the hot furnace was a little violent .
A puff of smoke or flame occasionally shot from the furnace mouth , evidence of violent boiling being plainly recognisable in some cases .
The absorption of the white light from the incandescent central region of the furnace by the vapour in the cooler parts of the tube imparted , in some instances , a striking coloration to the emitted light .
Some of these colours were obviously complementary in tint to those usually associated with thermal excitation .
For instance , CaO gave a yellow-green colour , BaO a beautiful salmon-pink , and SrO an intense green ; aluminium gave a brilliant yellow , and AI2O3 a beautiful green .
With one exception , all the substances behaved like carbon and emitted copious streams of negative electricity at the high temperatures employed .
Oxides .
Baryta , BaO.\#151 ; At each introduction of the baryta the " crucible-current " increased temporarily six or eight fold , attaining 1 ampere in one instance .
The increase remained to some extent on a second heating , and this is accounted for by the expulsion of the salt which had been absorbed by the graphite crucible The " electrode-current , " which was at first somewhat diminished by the BaO , afterwards considerably increased .
This increase persisted even when an empty crucible was substituted , doubtless owing to the continued activity of the residual atmosphere produced by the BaO .
Lime , CaO.\#151 ; In the case of lime the crucible-current showed , instead of a rapid growth , a steady increase ( up to % ampere ) with each successive heating of the crucible .
One would infer that some of the lime was absorbed by the carbon and that the proportions of the reacting substances became more favourable as the heating progressed .
This peculiarity was not confined to the lime ; most of the materials showed it on occasion .
Soda-lime.\#151 ; Soda-lime was also tried to see if the presence of the soda would enhance the effect of the lime .
No certain effect could be detected , probably owing to the too rapid volatilisation of the soda .
Strontia , SrO.\#151 ; In one experiment , strontia , introduced as Sr(N03)2 , doubled the normal ionisation current at a temperature of 2000 ' C. Magnesia , MgO.\#151 ; Magnesia behaved very like lime and baryta .
The crucible-current increased temporarily six or seven fold ( to 750 milliamperes ) , while the electrode-current at first diminished a little and then greatly increased .
Silica , Si02.\#151 ; Silver sand was employed .
The crucible-current rose from about 360 milliamperes to 580 milliamperes , the electrode-current meanwhile 434 Dr. G. W. C. Eaye and Mr. W. F. Higgins .
Emission of increasing slightly from about 120 milliamp\amp ; res to 145 .
The temperature was about 2400 ' C. Alumina , AI2O3.\#151 ; The crucible-current increased to over an ampere , i.e , , from 10 to 20 fold , when the alumina was introduced .
The addition of more alumina after a few heatings produced no further increase\#151 ; the furnace-atmosphere was , so to speak , " saturated .
" The electrode-current exhibited a considerable and permanent increase .
Oxide of Iron , FegOs.\#151 ; The introduction of FegOg doubled the crucible-current .
The reduced iron attacked the ' furnace-tube vigorously and the run soon terminated .
Metals .
With a view to simplifying somewhat the chemical conditions , the effect of introducing a few metals into the furnace was investigated .
Tin.\#151 ; -When tin was introduced the crucible-current was increased 10 times ( to 600 milliamperes ) , but the electrode-current showed only a small increase .
The increase in the crucible-current completely disappeared after a first heating .
This is explained by the fact that under the conditions which prevailed , the tin was probably not subjected to any chemical attack , but was wholly expelled from the crucible by boiling .
Aluminium.\#151 ; When aluminium was introduced both crucible-current and electrode-current were increased from about 120 milliamperes to a maximum of about seven fold .
Unlike the emission from tin , the effect persisted and even increased on subsequent heatings .
We should explain this as due to the retention of some of the aluminium by the carbon ( possibly as carbide ) , and its gradual expulsion , on further heating .
Iron.\#151 ; The introduction of iron in the crucible trebled the crucible-current ( from 160 to 460 milliamp\amp ; res ) , and raised the electrode-current about 50 per cent. It is worthy of note that if we extrapolate to 2500 ' C. thb emissivity-temperature curve of iron obtained by Harker and Kaye ( loc. cit. ) for temperatures up to the melting point ( 1500 ' C. ) , we derive a current of the right order , but somewhat smaller than that now found .
The iron behaved like its oxide in attacking the furnace-tube .
Copper.\#151 ; The crucible-current was increased four fold ( to 220 mgrm .
) , the electrode-current only slightly .
Just as with tin , the effect almost disappeared on a second heating .
Brass.\#151 ; Brass provided the one exception to the otherwise complete unanimity with which all the substances emitted negative electricity .
On its first heating the brass gave out , as a rule , a large quantity of positive electricity .
In one case the boiling brass generated a positive current amounting to no less than 140 milliamperes .
Electricity from Various Substances High Temperatures .
435 Discussion .
It will be apparent , from a scrutiny of the foregoing results , that there is in every instance a large evolution of electricity when a substance is suddenly vaporised in the furnace .
From the work carried out by Richardson , Pring , and others , together with the previous experiments conducted at the National Physical Laboratory , it would appear that we may look to at least three sources for the electricity generated by a rise of temperature:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The electronic emission , which is a function purely of the temperature ; ( 2 ) That due to chemical reactions ; and probably ( 3 ) That produced by a change of state\#151 ; vaporisation , and possibly liquefaction .
The conditions in the present experiments are so complicated that we could scarcely hope to explain the results from any single standpoint .
Doubtless all three causes are operating , the second and third being the more important .
It does not follow , of course , that all three effects would be of the same sign .
In regard to the effect of chemical activity , we have to bear in mind that , together with the test-material , there are always present carbon and nitrogen .
High-temperature chemistry is both difficult and obscure , and at present we do not know what are the probable reactions ( if any ) with some substances .
We do know , however , in the case of the alkaline earths , that both lime and baryta form carbides with carbon , such carbides being more fusible and more volatile than the original oxides .
At very high temperatures , carbonyls , cyanides , etc. , probably also act as intermediaries , followed by complete dissociation .
We are aware , too , that a curious reaction occurs between solid magnesia and carbon at about 1900 ' C. , the magnesia merging into the carbon in a manner strongly suggestive of fusion , the melt being , however , quite a spurious one , the true melting point being some 300 ' higher .
Then , again , iron and carbon at high temperatures have a powerful affinity for each other ; for example , molten iron rapidly eats its way through a graphite crucible owing to the formation of a low melting-point carbide .
We might expect a carbide reaction to operate also in the cases of silica and alumina .
But , so far as we know , tin and carbon do not react , and neither , do copper and carbon , and so in these cases the large emission may be due wholly to causes ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) .
In the case of the brass , it may be that the vaporisation effect is positive in sign , the electrification produced being sufficiently in excess to mask completely the negative emission due to temperature .
436 Emission of Electricity at High Temperatures .
Possibly the low boiling point of the zinc is responsible for the positive emission .
In considering the intensity of the ionisation currents obtained , we may note that the open end of the crucible had an area of about \#163 ; sq .
cm .
If it is legitimate to assume that this was the effective area of evaporation of the volatilised materials , it follows that the ionisation currents attained in some cases an intensity of 4 amperes per square centimetre , which may be regarded as a generous estimate .
In conclusion , we may be allowed to touch briefly on the question ( previously referred to by Harker , * on the basis of some earlier experiments ) of the applicability of the present results to some of the problems of solar electricity .
Many of the substances with which we have experimented , e.g. , Ca , Mg , Pe , Al , occur in great abundance in the sun , and hitherto no quantitative data as to their electrical behaviour at very high temperatures , has been available .
As is now well known , Hale concludes from his spectro-heliographic researches that a sunspot is the region at which a solar vortex emerges at the surface .
Without a doubt , the matter transported by such a vortex from one part of the sun to another would experience enormous variations in temperature , and we can therefore conceive how , as a result , the whirlpool in a sunspot is largely made up of electrified particles .
In the present experiments we have obtained current-densities of the order of 4 amperes per square centimetre at 2500 ' .
How , the rate of increase of the electrical emissivity with temperature is very rapid , and , if extreme extrapolation of measurements obtained over the range of temperatures possible in a tube-furnace may be regarded as legitimate , it would appear that at the estimated temperature of the sun , say 6000 ' C. , such a current-density would be increased millions of times .
Thus , notwithstanding the gigantic areas of sunspots , f there is no difficulty in accounting for the enormous currents necessary to produce the magnetic fields ( some 2000-5000 gauss ) , which Hale has shown to be associated with sunspots .
On the same lines we may seek to explain also the sun 's general magnetism , the vertical component of which at the poles Hale has estimated at about 50 gauss .
Summary .
Experiments have been conducted at temperatures fram 2000 to 2500 ' G. within a carbon-tube furnace at atmospheric pressure .
Under these * Harker , 'Monthly Notices , It .
A.S. , ' June , 1913 , p. 562 .
t The average diameter of what may be regarded as a spot of normal size is from 10,000 to 20,000 kilom .
, though much larger spots have been observed .
An Application of Electrolytically Produced Luminosity .
437 conditions the electrical emissions , in the absence of any applied potential , have been measured for a number of substances ( including the alkaline earths and the metals tin , aluminium , iron , and copper ) on their- introduction into the furnace .
During their rapid volatilisation the substances gave out large amounts of electricity , which , with one exception , was negative in sign .
For example , barium oxide and alumina generated negative currents of the order of 4 amperes per square centimetre , boiling tin about 2 amperes per square centimetre , and boiling iron about 1 ampere per square centimetre .
Boiling brass , on the contrary , produced a positive current of about 0'5 ampere per square centimetre .
The results have interest in connection with the problems of solar magnetism .
Incidentally , striking absorption-colorations were obtained when the light from the furnace w:as transmitted through the vapours of the alkaline earths , e.g. , the emergent light in the case of strontia was coloured a brilliant green , and with baryta a salmon-pink .
An Application of Electrolytically Produced , Forming a Step towards Telectroscopy .
By L. H. Walter , M.A. ( Communicated by Sir Alfred Ewing , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 4 , \#151 ; Read May 28 , 1914 .
) It has long been known that in valve cells the anode becomes luminous when the potential difference across the cell exceeds a certain value , and Sebor and Simek* have shown that the luminous property is enhanced when the anode is not of pure aluminium .
The first to make practical use of this property appears to have been G- .
J. Johnstone , f who found that an aluminium alloy containing as much as 10 per cent , of some metal which exhibits no valve effect se ( e.g. , copper , tin , etc. ) gave a greatly improved luminous effect , in fact , according to his claims , one of quite a different order .
About three years ago the author determined to repeat Johnstone 's experiments with a view to seeing if the idea could not be applied to certain purposes which the author had in view .
* ' Zeitschrift fur Elektrochemie , ' vol. 13 , p. 113 ( 1907 ) .
+ * Electrical World , ' vol. 52 , p. 343 ( 1908 ) .

