I. On the Temperature and Density of the Seas between Southampton and Bombay vid the Mediterranean and Red Seas .
" By MM .
ADOLPHE , HERMANN , and ROBERT SCHLAGINTWEIT .
Communicated by the Court of Directors of the Honourable East India Company .
Presented by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received January 11 , 1855 .
In this communication the authors give the results of the observations they had made during their voyage , relative to the temperature and specific gravity of the sea-water , both near the surface and at depths ranging from about 18 to 30 metres , the latter being nearly *.lrankfort , 1851 , vol. ip .
285 , the greatest depth which the motion of the vessel permitted them to reach .
They reserve for a future report their observations on the temperature and moisture of the air , as well as the results of two experiments on the quantity of carbonic acid contained in the air on the Mediterranean and Red Seas .
The instruments employed in the observations here described were as follows:(1 .
) Four thermometers which had been carefully compared at the Kew Observatory previous to the authors ' departure .
At Bombay they repeated the determination of the zero-point and of another standard point , and found that the thermometers had not varied .
( 2 .
) A dipping apparatus constructed by Mr. Adie .
This apparatus , which held 5 or 6 litres , was furnished with two valves , so arranged that as it descended the water passed freely through , but as soon as a commencement was made of drawing it up the valves closed and rendered it water-tight .
The authors assured themselves that the temperature of the enclosed water did not sensibly change during the process of drawing it up .
( 3 .
) An areometer from Mr. T. G. Greiner at Berlin .
This instrument permitted the specific gravity to be read off directly to three places of decimals , and the fourth could be supplied by estimation .
To render the observations of specific gravity comparable with one another , it was necessary to reduce them to a common temperature , which occasioned some difficulty , as the exact expansion of seawater between the limits 20 ?
and 25 ?
C. was not accurately known .
By means of a delicate voluminometer , constructed for the purpose by M. Geissler of Berlin , the authors determined the expansion to be 0-000271 for 1 ?
C. For distilled water Halstr6m had found 0-000219 .
Another set of more direct experiments , made at Bormbay , gave for the expansion of sea-water 0'000337 .
The difference between this value and the preceding the authors refer to a change of volume of the voluminometer itself , and they prefer the latter , which accordingly they use in their reductions .
The authors then give tables of the results of their observations , which are followed by some general remarks .
2 B Atlantic.-The temperature of the Atlantic was found to beFrom lat. 46 ?
to 41 ?
N ... ... ... 17'5 to 18 ?
05 C. From lat. 39 ?
to 37 ?
... ... .
20 ?
to 21 ?
C. Mean specific gravity reduced to 17 ?
'5 C.=1'0277 .
The temperature and specific gravity showed very little variation in the open sea , so long as no currents were met with , but in the vicinity of land , disturbances of various kinds were noticed .
In harbours and in small bays the temperature of the water was found to diminish sensibly at a depth of from 15 to 20 metres , but in the open sea the temperature at the very surface was generally found somewhat lower than at a depth of 30 metres , which no doubt was due to evaporation .
Straits of Gibraltar.-A current with a mean velocity of from three to six miles an hour usually flows through the Straits from the Atlantic into the Mediterranean .
A counter current is supposed to exist underneath , but the great depth of the Straits prevented the authors from reaching any such current with their dipping apparatus .
East of the Straits the water of the Atlantic was met with in several places , in close proximity with water of the Mediterranean , from which it was distinguished by its temperature and colour .
The stream from the Atlantic on passing the Straits seems to divide itself into several branches .
In connexion with the variability of the currents in the Straits , it is worthy of remark that the unreduced specific gravity of the water of the Mediterranean and of the Atlantic is nearly the same .
Mediterranean : From the Straits of Gibraltar to MaltaTemperature of the water ... ... ... .
21 ?
'7 to 22 ?
C. Specific gravity reduced to 17 ?
'5 C ... 1-0287 .
From Malta to Alexandria-Temperature ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 ?
to 24 ?
C. Reduced specific gravity ... ... ... .
10298 .
Red Sea.-The maximum of specific gravity found during the voyage was in the northern end of the Gulf of Suez , 1-0393 ( reduced ) .
From lat. 27 ?
to 23 ?
N. , temperature 24 ?
to 28 ?
C. : reduced sp. gr. 1-0315 .
From lat. 22 ?
to 14 ?
temperature 30 ?
to 31 ?
'5 C. : reduced sp. gr. 1-0306 .
Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb.-The water of the Gulf of Aden being less dense , though colder , than that of the Red Sea , flows into the latter on both sides of the Island of Perim .
This colder water could be detected half a degree north of the Straits .
After some further remarks about this current , the authors pass on to the Arabian Sea-in which they found From long .
44 ?
to 50 ?
East from Greenwich , temp. 28 ?
'8 , reduced sp. gr. 1-0275 .
From the merid .
of Cape Guardafui to Bombay , temp. 27 ?
to 28 ?
, red .
sp. gr. 1-0278 .

