I. A Paper of the Honourable Robert Boyl 's , d~posited with the Secretaries of the Royal Society , Octob. 14 .
1680 .
and opened since his Death ; being an Account of his making the Phosphorus , &amp;c. THere was taken a considerable quantity of Man 's Urine , ( because the Liquor yields but a small proportion of the desired Quintessence ) and of this a good part at least , had been for a pretty while digested before it was used .
Then this Liquor was distilled with a moderate Heat , till the Spirituous and Saline parts were drawn off ; after which the Superfluous Moisture also was abstracted ( or evaporated away ) till the remaining Substance was brought to the consistence of a somewhat thick Syrup , or a thin Extract .
This done , it was well incorporated with thrice its Weight of fine White Sand ; and the Mixture being put into a strong Stone-Retort , to which a large Receiver ( in good part filled with Water ) was so joined , that the Nose of the Retort did almost touch the Water : Then the two Vessels being carefully luted together , a naked Fire was gradually administred for Five or Six Hours , that all that was either Phlegmatic or Volatile might come over first .
When this was done , the Fire was increased , and at length for Five or or Six Hours made as strong and intense as the Furnace ( which was not bad ) was capable of giving : ( which Violence of Fire is a Circumstance not to be omitted in this Operation .
) By this means there came over good store of white Fumes , almost like those that appear in the Distillation of the Oil of Vitriol ; and when Sept. 30 .
when those Fumes were passed , and the Receiver grew clear , they were after a while succeeded by another sort that seemed in the Receiver to give a faint bluish Light , almost like that of little burning Matches dipped in Sulphur .
And last of all , the Fire being very vehement , there passed over another Substance , that was judged more ponderous than the former , because it fell through the Water to the bottom of the Receiver ; whence being taken out , ( and partly even whilst it stayed there , it ) appeared by several Effects , and other Phenomenon , to be such a kind of Substance as we desired and expected .

