386 Prof. Owen on the Fossil Mammals of Australia .
[ June 19 Part II .
Six screws of reference can be chosen , such that each screw is reciprocal to all the rest ; the group is said to consist of coreciprocal screws .
The analogy between the convenience obtained by referring the twist coordinates of a rigid body to a group of coreciprocal screws , and the convenience obtained by referring the coordinates of a point to rectangular axes , is pointed out .
The important theorem that one screw can be found which is reciprocal to five given screws is discussed .
Part III .
The sexiant is a function of six screws , which can be expressed as a determinant .
The property possessed by six screws when their sexiant vanishes may be enunciated in several different ways ; e. wrenches of appropriate magnitudes equilibrate when applied about the six screws to a free rigid body .
If seven twist velocities about seven screws neutralize , then each twist velocity must be proportional to the sexiant of the six remaining screws .
Part IV .
If a quiescent rigid body receive an impulsive wrench , then the body commences to twist about an instantaneous screw .
It is shown that if four impulsive screws lie on a cylindroid , the four instantaneous screws lie on a cylindroid , and also the four impulsive reactions caused by the constraints .
The anharmonic ratios of each of these groups of four are all equal .
Several special properties of impulsive and instantaneous screws are also considered .
Part Y. When a body has Jc degrees of freedom , it is shown that Tc principal screws of Tcinetic energy can be determined .
When an impulsive wrench is imparted about a principal screw of kinetic energy , the body commences to twist about the same screw .
These principles are illustrated by detailed examination of the cases of two and three degrees of freedom .
Part YI .
Miscellaneous propositions .
The principal questions discussed are:\#151 ; the locus plane of a point for twists about the screws on a cylindroid ; the equilibrium of a body under the action of gravity for the different cases of freedom ; remarks on Professor Sylvester 's theory of lines in involution ; generalization of a theorem due toM .
Chasles .
VIII .
" On the Fossil Mammals of Australia .
Family Macro-podidjj .
Genera Macropus , , Leptosiagon , coptodon , and Palorchestes.\#151 ; Part IX .
" By Prof. Owen , F.R.S. Received April 19 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) In this Part the author concludes his descriptions of the fossils on hand relating to the family of Kangaroos ( Macropodidse ) .
He gives ditional evidence of the characters of Macrojpus Titan , evidence of a species of Macropus proper ( JM .
Ferragus ) .
and of two subgeneric m \#171 ; fications of that type ( 'Pachysiagonand Leptosiagon ) .
The characters 1873 .
] On the Currents of the Dardanelles and Bosphorus .
387 a well-marked genus or subfamily of Macropodid\#174 ; are illustrated by fossils , on which are founded a genus Procoptodon , and the species Proc. Pusio , Proc. Goliah , and Proc. Bapha .
The paper concludes with the description of a considerable part of a fossil cranium indicative of the largest form of kangaroo hitherto found ; for the subgenus and species so indicated the author proposes the name PalorchestesAzael .
The illustrations of the paper form the subjects of nine 4to Plates .
IX .
" Observations on the Currents and Undercurrents of the Dardanelles and Bosphorus , made by Commander J. L. Wharton , of H.M. Surveying-Ship c Shearwater/ between the months of June and October , 1872 .
" From a Report of that Officer to the Hydrographer of the Admiralty .
Communicated by Admiral Richards , C.B. , V.P.R.S. Received May 7 , 1873 .
There is a general flow of the Black-Sea water through the Bosphorus , Marmara , and Dardanelles to the Mediterranean , probably caused by the combination of three things :\#151 ; first , the prevalence of N.E. winds in the Black Sea ; secondly , the excess of water received from the large rivers over the amount lost by temperature at some seasons ; and , thirdly , the difference of specific gravities in the two seas .
Of these , observation goes to prove that the wind has by far the greatest influence .
There is as general a countercurrent setting up under the surface-stream , in an opposite direction , from the Mediterranean to the Black Sea .
This seems to be dependent on the surface-current ; for when the latter is slack , the undercurrent is slack likewise .
Dardanelles .
From observations made from 14th June to 30th October 1872 .
The ordinary direction of the surface-current in mid-stream is S.W. , or " down " the straits , with the wind , which blows from the opposite quarter for three parts of the year ; but when a S.W. wind has lasted a few days and forced its way through the straits from one end to another , the current will run in the opposite direction , but never so strongly as the S.W. current .
Wherever ' a point juts out into the straits , or a turn occurs , counter-currents run up strongly inshore on their lee sides , as might be expected ; and , generally speaking , with the exception of those places where the straits are narrowed by two points opposite to one another , either slack water or a slight eddy exists , on either shore , for a short distance from the coast .

