On a Substancefrow the Elm Tree , called Ulmin .
By James Smithson , Esq. F.R.S. Read December 10 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 64 .
] The substance here examined by the author , we are told , was first made known by the celebrated Klaproth .
It has been ranked as a distinct principle , soluble in water , but insoluble in alcohol or ether , and convertible , by the action of nitric or oxymuriatic acids , into a resinous matter no longer soluble in water , but now rendered soluble in alcohol , by a supposed union with oxygen derived from these acids .
Mr. Smithson being in possession of ulmin , sent to him from Palermo by the same person who had furnished M. Klaproth with the subject of his researches , has made various experiments , which lead to a different opinion of its nature from that which has been entertained .
When ulmin is dissolved in water , a dilute solution is yellow ; but when concentrated , it is of a dark red , like blood .
This solution slowly and feebly restores the colour of turnsol , after it has been reddened by an acid .
Most acids occasion a copious precipitate from this solution of the matter which has been considered as resin .
The solution , however , still retains a slight yellow colour , from a small quantity of this matter which remains dissolved .
By evaporation of the solution a salt is obtained , consisting of potash combined with the acid employed in the experiment ; and the quantity of potash , by various trials , amounted to about one fifth part of the weight of the ulmin .
The precipitate , when dried , is very glossy , and has a resinous appearance .
In minute fragments it is found to be transparent , and of a deep garnet colour .
It burns with flame , _nd is reduced to a white ash .
Alcohol does dissolve it , but very sparingly .
Water also dissolves a small quantity , and the solution seems to redden turnsol .
Neither ammonia nor carbonate of soda promote its solution in water ; but a small quantity of potash dissolves it immediately , and abundantly , and appears to regenerate ulmin , with all its original properties .
Hence Mr. Smithson infers , that ulmin is not a simple vegetable principle of anomalous qualities , but a combination of potash , with a matter more nearly allied to the extractives than to the resins .
The aiuthor has also investigated the properties of a substance obtained from the elm-tree in this country , which differed from that of Palermo in containing a redundant quantity of potash in the state of carbonate .
He also made experiments on the sap of the elm-tree , from which , however , he did not succeed in obtaining ulmin .

