IX .
Observations to determine the amount of Atmospherical Refraction at Port Bowen in the Tears 1824-25 .
By Captain W. E. Parry , R. JV ' F. R. S. Lieutenant Henry Foster , R. JV ' F. R. S. and Lieutenant J. C. Ross , R. JST .
F. L. S. 1o ascertain correctly by actual observation the amount of atmospherical refraction at low altitudes and at various states of the barometer and thermometer , is a problem which has long occupied the attention of practical astronomers ; and many elaborate theories have also been given to explain the anomalies which have hitherto attended the most careful observations .
In Mr. Ivory 's Paper , printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1823 , he states ( page 495 ) , that his table of refractions has been constructed merely with the view of comparing the theory in the paper with observation .
He adds , however , " that it would be more satisfactory to determine " the same quantity ( / ) by the comparison of many observed " refractions at low altitudes between the distances of 85 " and 88 degrees from the zenith ; and by this means a " table might be constructed that would be deserving of " greater confidence/ * With a view , therefore , to supply the desideratum alluded to , three distinct series of observations were made at Port Bowen , by Captain Parry , Lieutenant Foster , and Lieutenant Ross ; the details of which are given in the following Paper .
Various methods suggested themselves for the determination of this question .
The first was to measure the zenith distance of known stars at a given moment , with the repeating circle , and then to have computed the true altitude ; whence the actual refraction might have been deduced .
The difficulties , however , attending the use of the repeating circle , during the winter of the polar regions , have already been alluded to on several occasions , in the accounts of the two preceding voyages of discovery .
The most material of these consist in the extreme contraction of the spirit in the long level , when filled in the usual way ; the instantaneous freezing of the breath or other vapour on the glasses , obliging the observer to hold his breath during each observation ; and the pain , amounting to the sensation , and producing the effects of burning consequent on touching intensely cold metal with the naked hand .
The first of these was obviated , on the present occasion , by inserting a larger quantity of spirit than usual , so as to keep both ends of the bubble in sight , even during the most intense cold : this latter circumstance , however , afforded the opportunity of remarking an increased sluggishness in the level at very low temperatures , arising possibly from a certain degree of thickening in the spirit , which required the instrument to stand unmoved for at least two minutes after the contact had been made , in order to insure an accurate reading .
It is unnecessary to point out , how unfavourable to minute accuracy this circumstance must prove , in observing an object having quick motion , either in altitude or in azimuth .
A set of zenith distances , consisting of only eight observations , cannot , indeed , under such circumstances , be satisfactorily obtained in less than thirty-five or forty minutes .
If to the difficulties already mentioned be added the annoyance sometimes experienced by the extinction of the lamp for illuminating the wires during an observation , in consequence of the freezing of the oil ; the frequent occurrence of snow drift ; and the haze which usually hangs near the horizon during a Polar winter , it must be admitted , that the repeating circle is not calculated , under such circumstances , either for obtaining numerous observations , or for ensuring the degree of accuracy indispensibly requisite in observations for determining the amount of atmospherical refractions .
Another method was suggested by Captain Kater , in April , 1824 , which is explained in the following words : " Select a star which passes the zenith , and when this star " and the Pole star are at the same altitude , take the distance " between them by means of the repeating reflecting circle ; " do the same when the star is in the zenith , and also when " upon the meridian under the Pole .
From the first observa " tions the true zenith distance of the stars may be readily " obtained .
By observations made when the star is in the " zenith , the absolute refraction of the Pole star will be " given , and from the observations made when the star is " under the Pole , the refraction at that altitude can be easily " deduced .
Pursue the same method with other stars , care " fully marking at each observation the time and state of the " barometer and thermometer .
We shall thus be furnished with " data , from which the refraction at the various altitudes can " be computed with facility and accuracy .
" On considering , however , the difficulties already detailed in the use of the repeating circle , which rendered it impossible to take advantage of this ingenious suggestion of Captain Kater ; it occurred to Lieutenant Foster , that a more simple and accurate method of determining the amount of refraction , would be to observe the setting of stars within certain limits of azimuth , behind the high land which encircles this harbour , and then determining at leisure the zenith distance of that part behind which the star set .
As the ruggedness of the land , however , combined with the frequent alteration of the star 's azimuth , would materially affect results thus obtained ; Captain Parry proposed , as a modification of this idea , to place a board edge-wise , and strictly horizontal , on the spot behind which the star set , thus rendering it unimportant upon what part of the board the occultation of the object took place , as well as affording more ready means of obtaining its apparent altitude .
Two boards were accordingly fixed with all possible firmness and accuracy upon a neighbouring hill , to the westward of the observatory , for observing the setting of a , Aquilas and Arcturus respectively , the board for the former being on aN 75't W bearing , distant 924 feet , and for the latter N 40o W , 1590 feet .
The observations by Captain Parry , given in Tables IL and VI .
, were made with a small theodolite , having its legs immovably fixed by freezing , across a cask filled with sand ; those inTable I V.by a ship telescope , two feet in length , securely attached to the cask itself , and having no motion whatever .
Lieutenant Foster 's observations contained in Tables VIII .
to XL inclusive , were made with a small repeating circle by DoLLOND , furnished with tv/ o telescopes , which afforded the means of obtaining double observations of each star the same evening .
This instrument stood 122 feet above the level of the sea , on a cask filled with sand , firmly frozen to the ground , and was secured from the weather by a suitable covering .
The observations by Lieutenant Ross , in Tables XIII .
to XV .
inclusive , were obtained with a small variation transit instrument as an upper telescope , and those in Table\#171 ; XVI .
and XVII .
by a pocket telescope below ; both being fixed to a cask filled with sand .
None of the instruments used by either of the three observers were removed , till after the completion of the whole series of observations .
The hour angle by which the true altitude of the setting star was determined , was obtained by taking its right ascension from that of the meridian , at the time of observation , as found by transits of well known stars , which took place within three quarters of an hour of the other star 's setting , thus rendering the observations as independent as possible of any want of uniformity in the rates of the pocket chronometers employed by the observers .
The transits were taken exclusively by Lieutenant Foster , and comparisons with the chronometer he employed , were taken by the other observers about the time of transit , in order to deduce their horary angles , contained in the respective Tables .
The position of the transit instrument was rigidly verified by the transits of high and low stars in their passages across the meridian , as well as by a constant reference to a meridian mark , and by the most minute attention to the level .
The heights of the barometer , and of the thermometer , suspended with its bulb on the same level with the observers in the open air , were taken at the time of every observation .
The registered height of the barometer , however , in the Tables , has been corrected for instrumental errors , and brought up to a certain temperature , which is specified at the head of each of the columns containing it .
an The latitude , 73o 13 ' 39^,4 N.* used in these computations , is the result of 91 sets of observations on Polaris , at different horary distances from the north and south meridians , by Captain Parry and Lieutenant Foster ; employing Dr. Young 's Table of Atmospherical Refractions , published at the end of the Nautical Almanac for each year .
As soon as the sun afforded sufficient light for obtaining the apparent altitudes of the boards from the respective telescopes , observations were commenced for that purpose .
The circle used by Lieutenant Foster afforded the direct means of doing this , for the upper telescope , by which the zenith distance of the edge of the board at the spot where the star set , was at once obtained by observation .
The angular distance between this telescope and the lower one , as seen from the board , was determined by means of a double wire micrometer , attached to one of Dollond 's achromatic telescopes 46 inches focal length , the object-glass of which was let into the board , so as to make its centre exactly coincide with that part behind which the star set .
The telescopes employed by Captain Parry and Lieutenant Ross , not being attached to an instrument calculated for measuring zenith distances , required some further contrivance to obtain the altitudes of the boards with respect to them .
In order to place the repeating circle precisely at the same altitude with Captain Parry 's upper telescope , a levelling staff was fixed into the ground , half way between the place of observation and the board .
This being adjusted by sliding up or down till a fine brass point on its upper end exactly .
The dements of this result , are given in the Appendix to Capt. Parry 's Narrative of the Third Voyage for the Discovery of a North West Passage into the Pacific Ocean .
coincided with the edge of the board , When seen through the upper telescope ; the repeating circle was also raised or lowered until the same coincidence obtained , when looking through its telescope .
The accuracy of the position thus obtained was finally verified by observing the setting of the star , through each telescope , when it was found to disappear to both observers at the same instant For the altitude of the board , with respect to the lower telescope used by Captain Parr v , a short staff , exactly equal in length to the measured distance between the telescopes , was fixed vertically above the board , and the zenith distance of its well defined top observed by the repeating circle in its formar place .
And as a confirmation of the results thus obtained , the method described above , as adopted by Lieutenat Foster , by means of the micrometer , was also resorted to ; a mean of the two methods ( which differed a/ #,8 ) , being used in the computation of the refractions .
Lieutenant Ross 's zenith distances were obtained by a repeating circle , placed on the same cask which held the telescopes he employed , the angular distance between each of these , and that of the circle ( when directed to the board ) , being determined by repeated observations with the micrometer , fixed upon the respective boards M the manner already described .
In some instances , lieutenant Ross observed the re-appearence of a Aquilae under the boa\#357 ; d , thus obtaining an observation at another altitude .
The corresponding zenith distance of that part of the board was determined by measuring with the micrometer , the angle subtended by the board at the place of observation .
The zenith distances of the boards , as obtained by the respective observers , are given in the Tables attached to the corresponding observations for refraction , except those of Lieutenant Ross , the details of which , were unfortunately left on board the Fury at the time of her loss .
While making the above mentioned observations for the zenith-distances of the boards , Captain Parry had occasion to notice , on the 28th of February , some anomalies which had never before occurred , and which were at first attributed to some slight and imperceptible change in the position of the repeating circle ( see Table III .
) On-continuing the observations , however , it soon appeared that the changes coincided nearly with particular times of the day , the greatest zenith distance always occurring when the thermometer stood the highest , and the weather was most calm .
To clear the zenith distances of this effect of refraction , the repeating circle was carried up the hill , the object-glass of its telescope being placed in a notch cut in the board , as already described above in using the micrometer ; when by several days ' observations , continued from morning till night , it was found that the same phenomenon as before occurred , the zenith distance of the station below uniformly increasing from the morning till the afternoon , and again decreasing as the sun fell .
Two sets of observations taken at the board after midnight , by means of a lamp viewed through the tube of the telescope , at the lower station , gave nearly a mean of all the other observations .
Thus it appeared that whether observed from the top or the bottom of a hill whose altitude was 4'i , an increase of zenith distance ( varying from 9 " to 1 7 " ) , took place about the same hours , indicating a comparatively rare medium near the surface of the ground , and giving such a curvature to the visual ray , as to produce a similar effect at both stations .
On looking over each individual 's observations , it will be seen , that great changes in the amount of atmospherical refraction took place , without any correspondent change in the state of either the barometer or thermometer ; and , although the mode of observation adopted by us , is not wholly free from objection , inasmuch , as the ray of light from a bright star may suffer some degree of inflection , by passing over a sharp edge ( such as the boards placed edgewise would present , whereby their apparent altitudes would not be exactly those of the stars at the time of observation ) ; yet we do not consider this circumstance the cause of the anomaly alluded to , for we never entertained the slightest doubt as to the moment of either of the stars ' disappearance , both being always instantaneous : and , moreover , when it is recollected , that the use of instruments , proper for measureing altitudes on these occasions , in such a climate , is attended with the difficulties already described in this Paper , it will , in all probability be admitted , that this mode of observation , is at least , calculated to diminish the errors necessarily arising from the use of instruments , under such circumstances .
It is , however , with diffidence that we submit the following tabulated results of the preceding observations , for comparison with the various theories , which have from time to time been advanced by many eminent astronomers and mathematicians , to account for all the irregularities which have been noticed in the most careful observations on this important subject .
Recapitulation of the mean results , of the preceding Observations .
Stars Apparent Barometer Temperate .
Obser ved No. of ^ , Observed .
Altitude .
Corrected .
Fahrenheit .
Refraction .
Obser. ^ , UDserver .
o/ / / Inches .
o ' / / r7 38 0,52 29,749 32,6 823,18 17 Lieut. Ross .
tew\#8482 ; s ; S. &amp; 33S =S5 533\#187 ; }"-.*\#171 ; t 7 31 38,62 29,791 23,58 8 23,95 34 Capt. Parry .
f4 40 38,0 29,785 33*37 lz 48,17 10 Lieut , Ross .
4 39 3M 29,742 -31,1 13 4,73 23 Lieut. Foster .
4 39 1,8 29,748 30*85 12 51,4 15 Lieut. Ross .
^AfluilaJ 4 38 58,03 29,795 -3i*8 13 4,72 24 Capt. Parry .
*AH A^ 4 37 41,08 29,689 -33*37 '3 o &gt; 42 IO Lieut. Ross .
4 36 32,08 29,808 29,0 13 9,37 32 Lieut. Foster .
4 36 3,88 29,712 3i &gt; 35 12 58,85 12 Lieut. Ross .
L4 32 32,34 29,761 -29,94 13 12,51 27 CaptParry .
The original register of the height of the mercury in the barometer , after being corrected for instrumental errors , has been brought up to the temperature of + 50o of Fahrenheit , in the observations by Captain Parry and Lieutenant Ross , but to + 48 o only , in the observations by Lieutenant Foster .
Port Bowen , July 10th , 1825 .
From the Press of W. NICOL , Clevelandrrotu , St , James 's .

