1888 .
] 1 he Placentation the Lemurs .
Cervical nerves .
Reference .
L All authors .
Volkmann , loc , cit. II .
" t Hermann , locT cit. Quain , loc , cit , III .
j 1 Bastian , loc , cit. \gt ; II ( alone ) .
Other authors , J Volkmann , loc , cit. Views previously held .
Authors5 views .
Nil save posterior neck muscles .
Sterno-hyoid and sterno-tliyroid supplied .
I. Depressors of hyoid , especially sternohyoid , and sterno-thyroid .
II .
Depressors of hyoid , especially omo-hyoid .
" Supply " infrahyoid muscles with descendens noni .
III .
Nil motor .
Supplies the small muscles of neck , but not the depressors of hyoid .
II .
" An Additional Contribution to the Placentation of the Lemurs .
" By Professor Sir Wm. Turner , Knt , , M.B. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 21 , 1888 .
In 1876 I contributed to the Royal Society a memoir " On the Placentation of the Lemurs , " which was published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' of that year ( vol. 166 , Part 2 ) .
The gravid uteri which I examined and described were from specimens of diadema , Lemur rufipes , and Indris brevicaudatm .
The examination showed in these Lemurs that the placental villi were diffused over the greater part of the surface of the chorion , so as to approximate in general plan with the arrangement in the Pig , Mare , and Cetacean , though of course with special characters of their own ; that there were also distinct areas on the chorion free from villi ; that the uterine mucous membrane possessed multitudes of crypts , from out of which the villi were easily drawn ; that smooth patches of mucous membrane devoid of crypts , and corresponding to the non-villous parts of the chorion were present , towards which the stems of the uterine glands converged in a remarkable manner , and on the surface of which they opened by obliquely directed mouths in considerable numbers .
Further , it was pointed out that the chorion occupied both horns of the uterus , though the part which was prolonged into the non-gravid horn was only a short diverticulum , and that the allantois formed a large persistent sac , which , like the sac of the amnion , did \amp ; 78 Prof. Sir Wm. Turner .
[ June 7 , not extend into the diverticulum of the chorion .
The specimens were at different stages of gestation , hut none was at the full time though the foetus of Propithecus was well developed , and measured without including the tail , 5 inches in length .
In April of the present year I received from P. B. Beddard , Esq. , Prosector to the Zoological Society of London , the gravid uterus of a Lemur , which he informs me was Lemur xanthomystax .
The animal had died during labour .
On examining the specimen the uterus showed no signs of inflammation , but its posterior wall was ruptured immediately above the line of reflection of the peritoneum from the rectum on to it .
The caudal end of the foetus occupied the upper third of the vagina , the membranes having been torn so as to allow the passage of the hinder part of the trunk out of the uterus .
The uterine vessels were then filled with a carmine and gelatine injection , and the vessels of the chorion were partially filled with a blue injection through the umbilical trunks .
The uterus was somewhat smaller than that of diadema , described in the memoir above referred to .
As in that specimen it seemed on external examination as if it were a single uterus , but when opened into it was seen to possess a largely dilated left cornu , containing the head of the foetus , and a short right cornu , dilated to about the size of a walnut , both of which freely communicated with the cavity of the corpus uteri ; a depending fold of mucous membrane not half an inch deep separated the cornua from each other .
The vagina was about 60 min. long , and with a smooth mucous membrane .
The os uteri was defined by a circular fold of mucous membrane .
Each ovary was only about half the size of a common pea , and the left one contained a highly vascular corpus luteum .
The folds and sulci of the mucous membrane both of the corpus and cornua uteri with their numerous crypts , corresponded generally with those previously described and figured by me in P. diadema .
The largest area of smooth mucous membrane was immediately above the os uteri ; that next in size was situated around the orifice of the left Fallopian tube , whilst a smaller one surrounded the opening of the right tuba .
Smooth areas were interspersed amidst the mucous folds ; they were much less vascular than the folds and crypts , but as , both in their appearance to the naked eye and their relation to the openings of the uterine glands , they corresponded closely to what I have previously described in P. diade and Lemur , I need a\#171 ; further describe them .
The epithelial contents gave to the uterine glands a yellowish colour ; but it was difficult to individualise in them the separate cells , the contents of which were granular , and the outlines indistinct .
It seemed indeed as if the cells were in process m. degeneration , owing to the period of gestation having come to an en , and as parturition had begun , the glands were no longer required 1888 .
] The Placentation of the Lemurs .
take a part in the nutrition of the foetus .
The gland-layer of the mucous membrane was readily distinguished subjacent to the crypt-layer .
The folds and crypts surrounding the smooth areas of the mucosa were highly vascular .
The crypts opened freely on the surface , and to some extent smaller secondary crypts branched off from the larger depressions .
The distribution of the compact capillary network in the walls of the crypts resembled the arrangement previously figured in P. diadema .
I drew the chorion away from the uterine mucosa by gentle traction , and in the process of detachment the villi came out of the crypts with great ease .
A considerable area of chorion next the os uteri , some of which had been torn in the descent of the foetus , was free from villi and not very vascular .
As one traced the chorion from the os , short scattered villi in the first instance projected from it , to be succeeded still further away by longer and broader villi arranged either in tufts or rows , the size and arrangement of the villi being adapted to the crypts in the mucosa .
Opposite the uterine opening of the left Fallopian tube an area of the chorion about 33 mm. in its longest diameter was smooth and free from villi : it was placed at the end of the chorion furthest removed from the os uteri .
A much smaller non-villous area of chorion corresponded to the opening of the right tuba , and was much nearer to the os than was the case with the non-villous area opposite the left tuba ; in the right cornu the villi were arranged in low ridges , and the ridges and furrows in the uterine mucous membrane were shallow .
Owing to the shortness of the right uterine cornu , the chorion lodged within it formed only a slight projection of the general bag of the chorion .
Smooth patches of chorion , in apposition with the corresponding smooth areas of the mucosa , were interspersed amidst the rows and tufts of villi which covered so large a proportion of the free surface of the chorion .
The blue injection which had been passed into the umbilical trunks had filled the vessels ramifying in the deeper layer of the chorion , which could be seen both in the villous and non-villous parts of the membrane not unfrequently having a tortuous course .
Opposite the bases of the villi these vessels gave off small branches which entered the villi and formed in them a close network of capillaries .
The large sacs both of the amnion and allantois in L. xcmthomystax closely corresponded in arrangement with those previously described by me in Lemur rujipes .
The foetus was 19 cm .
long from the tip of the nose to the root of the tail , and the tail was 14 cm .
long .
It was evidently quite mature and the hairs and nails were well developed .
The lower incisors had partially cut the gum .
Both in this specimen and in the Propithecus diadema previously described the breech was the presenting part , and Prof. Sir Wm. Turner .
[ June 7 , the head was near the Fallopian tube belonging to the more dilated of the two uterine cornua .
In three specimens of Lemur rufip^s described in my previous memoir , the head was in proximity to the os , and the caudal end of the foetus was in the more dilated horn .
It would appear , therefore , that in the Lemurs , either the head or breech may be the part of the animal first to be born .
The examination of the gravid uterus of Lemur xantliomystax confirms , therefore , the conclusions to which both Alphonse Milne Edwards* and I had arrived independently in our previous investigations , that the placenta in this important group of animals is diffused and non-deciduate , and that the sac of the allantois is large and persistent up to the time of parturition .
In these important respects , therefore , the Lemurs are , in their placental characters , as far removed from man and apes as it is possible for them to be .
Although I am not disposed to attach too much weight to the placenta as furnishing a dominant character for purposes of classification , yet I cannot but think that animals which are megallanto'id , non-deciduate , and with the villi diffused generally over the surface of the chorion , ought no longer to be associated in the same order with animals in which , as in the apes , the sac of the allantois early disappears , and the villi are concentrated into a special placental area , in which the foetal and maternal structures are so intermingled that the placenta is highly deciduate .
Hence I am of opinion that the Lemurs ought to be grouped apart from the Apes in a special order , which may be named either with Alphonse Milne Edwards Lemuria , or with Victor Carus and others Prosimii .
Addendum.\#151 ; June 2 .
After the foetus had been mounted for preservation in spirit , delicate flakes of a translucent cuticuiar-looking membrane were seen partially to float off from the surface of the abdomen and from the ventral surface of the limbs .
In the groins and axillae the membrane was very distinct , and formed an almost complete covering for the surface of the limbs external to the hairs , which , though of some length , were few in number , and scattered over the surface of the skin .
On the dorsal aspect of the foetus , both on the head , trunk , and limbs , where the hairs were longer and closely set together , the flakes were much more fragmentary and over considerable areas were absent .
The appearance presented was such as to lead to the impression that flakes of a cuticular membrane , subjacent to which the hairs had been developed , were in process of being shed .
* " Histoire Naturelle des Mammiferes de Madagascar , " forming vol. 6 , chap , is , of Grandidier 's ' Histoire de Madagascar .
' 1888 .
] The Placentation of the Lemurs .
A number of years ago , Professor Hermann Welcker , of Halle , described by the name of Epitrichium a cnticular membrane , situated superficial to the hairs , which formed a complete envelope to the foetus of Bradypus tridactylus , Ghol didactyla , and Dicotyles .
He figured it in loco both in Bradypus and Dicotyles.*It was obviously quite distinct from the amnion .
In a memoir " On the Placentation of the Sloths , " published in 1873 , I described and figured the epitrichium in Gholopus hoffmanni , f and stated that I had also seen a similar arrangement in a foetus of Bradypus tridactylus .
In a subsequent dissection of the gravid uterus of Bradypus tridactylus I have recognised that this membrane in its relations to the foetus corresponded with Welcker 's figure and description .
In these animals the epitrichium formed a complete -covering of the foetus , and closely followed the contour of the head , trunk , and limbs , immediately external to the hairy coat which was situated in the interval between the epitrichium and the skin ; though the epitriehium was perforated at the muzzle by the long tactile hairs which grew from the lips .
It was adherent to the cuticle of the margins of the eyelids , of the orifice of the nose , mouth , external auditory meatus , and anus , and was also attached to the soft cuticle around the roots of the claws .
It was entirely distinct from the amnion , and from its relations to the hairy coat was obviously the layer of the epidermis situated superficial to the hairs , and which had become elevated as a distinct and continuous membrane as a result of their development and growth .
From its relation to the hairy coat , the cuticular membrane on the foetus of Lemur xanthomystax was without doubt a similar structure to the epitrichium investing the foetus of the Sloths , but with this difference , that instead of forming a continuous envelope around the head , body , and limbs of the foetus , it was broken up into flakes or patches , which were the best marked where the hairs were scattered , and had almost disappeared in the mature foetus , where the hairy coat was thick and abundant .
The recognition of this membrane in Lemur xanthomystax led me to examine the foetus of Propithecus , referred to in my memoir " On the Placentation of the Lemurs , " with the view of seeing if a corresponding structure was present .
I found on immersing the foetus in water , or in spirit , that similar membranous flakes floated off from the surface of the hair .
In some localities they were so loose as to make it difficult to say what their original relation to the hairs had been , but in other places the membrane had not been disturbed , and the hairs were situated between it and the * " TJeber die Entwicklung und den Ban der Haut und der Haare bei Bradypus , " in * Abhandl .
der Naturforsch .
G-esellschaft zu Halle , ' vol. 9 , 1864 .
t ' Edinburgh Roy .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 27 .
- 282 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
[ June 7 , surface of the skin .
It must be understood that this membrane was quite distinct from the amnion .
The epitrichinm , therefore , is present both in the Lemurs and in the Sloths , but in the former it does not , after the hairy coat is developed , form a complete envelope for the foetus , but is broken up before the termination of the period of gestation into more or less detached flakes of membrane .
III .
" Note on the Coagulation of the Blood .
" By L. C. Wooldridge , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , Co-Lecturer on Physiology at Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. ( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) Received May 24 , 1888 .
In a paper read before the Royal Society , April 26th , 1888 , Dr. Halliburton offers some criticism of my views respecting the coagulation of the blood .
In this note I shall briefly summarise and traverse the objections Dr. Halliburton raises to my theory and experiments .
I. Dr. Halliburton suggests that the substance I call A-fibrinogen \#151 ; which I obtained by cooling peptone-plasma\#151 ; is not a normal constituent of the blood plasma , but that it is a precipitate of a hemi-albumose , supposed by him to be present in the peptone \#166 ; which is injected into an animal for the purpose of obtaining peptone plasma .
I do not use Witte 's peptone , as Dr. Halliburton appears to have done , on account of its recognised impurity , but that obtained from Dr. Gruebler 's well-known laboratory in Leipsic .
This peptone is prepared according to Henniger 's method .
A 10 per cent , solution of it in \ per cent , solution of sodium chloride is quite clear after filtration .
It gives no precipitate on cooling to zero .
It disappears wholly from the blood within one or two minutes after injection .
Finally , A-fibrinogen has properties absolutely different from the peptone injected .
Dr. Halliburton appears to think that this substance , A-fibrinogen , exists only in peptone plasma .
I stated in a paper read before the Royal Society in 1885 , " On a New Constituent , " \amp ; c. , that it was also present in salt plasma , and I gave details concerning it in the Croonian MS .
, which is in the archives of the Royal Society .
I explained at length in the paper referred to by Dr. Halliburton , and published in Ludwig 's ' Festschrift , ' 1887 , why there are , as has long been known , two varieties of salt plasma , namely , one containing , as I showed , no A-fibrinogen , this being not

