]\gt ; Argon , a new Constituent of the Atmosphere .
( Rev. W. ) Notes on Solar Observations at Stonyhurst College Observatory . .
London 1894 .
The Author .
Walker ( G. C. ) Cnstomary Law of the Main Tribes in the Lahore District .
Vol. XIII . .
Lahore 1894 .
India Office .
Map Lines of Equal metic Declination for January 1 , 1895 .
With a Reprint from.the ' Colliery Gual.dian .
' The Editor , ' Colliery Gnardian .
' January.31 , 1895 .
( In the Theatre of the University of London .
) The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , in the A List of the Presemts received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers wers read:\mdash ; I , " " Argon , a Constituent of the Atmosphere By LORD RAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. , and WILLIAM RAMSAY , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , University College , London .
Received January 31 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) I. Density of Nitrogen from Various Sources .
Iu a former paper* it has been shown that nitrogen extracted from chemical compounds is about per cent. lighter than " " atmospheric nitrogen The mean numbers for the weights of gas contained in the globc used were as follows:\mdash ; Grams .
nibric oxide . . . . . . . . . . . .
nitrous oxide . . . . . . . . . . . .
mmonium nitrite . . .
$ Rayleigh , " " On an Anomaly encountered in Determinations of the Density of trogen Gas ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 55 , p. 340 , 1894 .
VOL. LVII .
266 Lord Rayleigh and Prof. Ramsay .
while for " " atmospheric nitrogen\ldquo ; there was found\mdash ; By hot copper , 1892 . . . . . . . . . .
By hot iron , 1893 . . . . . . . . . .
- .
By ferrous hydrate , At the suggestion of Professor Thorpe experiments were subsequently tried nitrogen liberated from urea by the aclion of sodium hy pobromit The hypobromite was prepared from mercial materiaIs in the proportions recommended for the of .
The reaction was well under c , ontrol , and the gas liberated as slowly as desired .
In the first experiment the was submitted to no meant than slow passage potash and phosphoric but it soon became pparent that the nitrogen was The " " inert and inodorous\ldquo ; gas attacked vigorously the mercury the Topler pump , and was described as smelling like a dead rat .
to the weigb , it proved to be in excess even of the weight of pheric nitrogen .
The corrosion of he mercury and the evil smell were in obviated by passing the gas over hot metals .
For the of June 6 , 9 , and 13 the gas passed th'ough a short of containing copper in the form of fine wire heated by a flat burner , then the furnace over red-hot iron , and back copper oxide .
On June 19 the furnace tubes were omitted , the being treated with the red-hot copper only .
The mean result , duced so as to correspond with those above quoted , is 2985 .
Without using heat , it has not been found possible to corrosion of the .
Even when no urea is employed , and simply bubbled ough the hypobromite solution is allowed to with constant sLaking over mercury ined in a tube , the ?
ce of the metal was soon fouled .
Although the results relating to urea nitrogen are ing comparison with that obtain .d from other nitrogen compounds , object was not attained on account of the necessity of ing the treatment with hot metals .
We have found , however , nitrogen from ammonium nitrite may be prepa , without the ployment of hot tubes , whose weight with that above It is trne gas smells slightly of ammonia , easily by sulphuric a , cid , and apparently also of oxides of nitrogen .
mean result from three is It will be seen that , in spite of the slight nitrous smell , there appreciable difference in the densities of gas prepared from with and without the treatment by hot metals .
The intere , as showing that the agreement of numbers Argon , a new Constiment of the nitrogen does not depend upon the use of red heat in the of purifioation .
five results obtained in more or less distinot ways for etand thus :\mdash ; From nitric oxide . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
From nitrous oxide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ammonium nitrite purified tit a red ur , a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
From ammonium nitrite purified in the cold . .
Mean . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
numbers , as well as hose above quoted for " " nitrogen subject to a deduction of for the sbrinkage of the globe ) exhausted .
* If they are then iplied in the of , they will the weights of the gas in grams per litre .
fhus , as regards the mean llumbers , we find as the weight per litre under standard couditions of chemical nitrogen , that of atmospheric nitrogen being 12572 .
It is of compare the density of nitrogell obtained from chemical tlpounds with that of .
We have : : ; so that if 9954 .
) when the comparison is with chemical nitrogen , the atio is very nearly that of 16 : 14 ; but if " " atmospheric " " be subst , ituted , the ratio of inteo c is widely fro To the above my be added nitl'ogen pre in yet anorher whose ] been determined subsequently to the isolaof the llew de1lse stifuent of the atmospl ) this as was actually from air means of nesium .
nitrogeu separated was then convcrted into ammonia by of water upon the gncsium nitride and afterwards the free state by means of caleium TIle purification conducted in the usual way , and 1ncluded .
over red-hot and copper oxide .
The .
was the result:\mdash ; flol ) empty , Oct. 30 , Nov. 5 . . . . . . . . . .
full , Oct. 31 . . . . . .
Weight of gas . . . . . . . . . . . .
differs inappreciably from the mean of other results , and is of special tcrest as relating to gas which at one history formed part of the atmosphere .
determination , with a diiferent apparatus , of the density " " On the Densities of the Gases ' Roy .
Soc. Proc Lord yleigh and Prof. Ramsay .
of " " chemical " " nitrogen from the same source , magnesium which had been prepared by passing " " atmospheric\ldquo ; ignited magnesium , may here be recorded .
The sample that previously mentionsd , inasmuch as it had not been eatment with red-hot copper .
After treating the nitride with the ammonia was distilled off , and collected in acid ; the solution was evaporated by degrees , the dry chloride was in water , and its concentrated solution to a freshly-prepar.ed solution of sodium hypobromite .
The was collected in a gas-holder over water which had previously boiled , so as , at all event , partially , to expel air .
The passed into the vacuous globe through a solution of potassium oxide , and through two drying-tubes , one contalnlng the other phosphoric anhydride .
At C. and mm. pressure , c.c. of this weighed gram .
Hence , Weight of llitre at C. and 760 mm. pressure The mean of the weight of llitre of " " chemical\ldquo ; has been to equal .
It is therefore seen that " " nitrogen , del'ived from " " atmospheric\ldquo ; en , without any to red-hot copper , possesses aboutwtho usual density .
Experiments ere ] made , which had for their object to the ammonia prodtlced from the magnesium nitride is with ordinary ammonia , and contains no other compound of a aracter .
For this purpose the ammonia was converted onium chloride , and the percentage of chlorine ermined ation with a ution of silver nitrate which had been by titrating a specimen of pure sublimed a.mmonium chloride .
solution was of such a stren , gth that 1 .
precipitated ohlorine gram of ammonium oride .
1 .
Ammonium chloride from orange-coloured sample of nitride per cent. of chlorine .
2 .
Ammonium chloride from blackish magnesium nitride 6635 per cent. of chlorine .
3 .
Ammoninm chloride from nitride containing a large unattacked magI ) contained per cent. of chloriue .
Taking for the atomic weights of hydrogen , of , and of chlorine Cl , the theoretical chlorine in chloride is per cent. From these results\mdash ; that nitrogen prepared from nitride , obtained by passing " " atmospheric\ldquo ; rogen over magnesium has the density of " " chemical\ldquo ; nitrogen , ammonium chloride , prepared from nesium nitride , practically same percentage of chlorine as pure ride\mdash ; it may be concluded that red-hot magnesium Argon , a new Constituent of the Atr aosphere .
269 nitrogen\ldquo ; no snbstance other than nitrogen ble of a basic componnd with hydrogen .
II .
Reasons for suspech'ng a hitherto Undiscovered Constituent in When the discrepancy of veighls was first encountered , attempts were naturally made to explain it by contnmination with known ibies .
Of these the most likely ppeared to be hydrogen , mpurl les .
present in the .
gas spite of he passage over red-hot oxide .
But inasmuch as the intenti ) oduction of into the heavier gas , afterwards treated in the same way with cupric oxide , had no effect upon its weight , this explanation had to be abandoned , and finally it became clear that the ence could not be accounted for by the presence of any impurity .
At this it seemed not improbable that the lightness of the gas extractPd from chemical compounds to be explained by partlal dissociation of nitrogen nlolec[lles into detached atoms .
In order to test this suggestion both of gas were submitted to the action of the silent discharge , with the result that both their weights unaltered .
This was , and a further experiment pointed still more in the ection .
chemical behaviour of nitrogen is as to that dissociated atoms would possess a high degree of activity , and that even though they might be formed in the first instance their life would probably be short .
On standing they might be expected to disappear , partial analogy with the known behaviour of ozone .
With this idea in view , a sample of cljcmically prepared nitrogen was stol.ed for eight months .
But at end of this time the density no sign of increase , remaining exactly as al , first.* Regarding it as established that one or other of the must ) a , as the case be , an much heaviel ' or muoh lighter than nitrogen , we ljad to consider the relative probabilities of the variotls possible interprotatious .
Except upon ttje already ypothesis of , it was difficult to see how the of chemical origin could be a mixturc .
To suppose this would be to admit two of acicL hardly reconcilable with the of Stas and upon the atorrlic weight of that substance .
simplest ation many spects was to admit the existence of a second ingredient in cvqir from oxygen , moisture , and carbonic anhydride had eady been emoved .
The proportional amount required was not great .
Tf the density of the1 supposed gas were double that of nitrogen , per cent. only by volume would be needed ; or if the density were but as again as that of nitrogen , then 1 per cent. would still suffice .
But * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 55 , p. 344 , 1894 .
Lord Rayleigh and Prof. Ramsay .
explanation , even provisionally , we had to im that a gas surrourlding us on all sides , and enormous quaniities , could have remained so long unsuspected .
The method of most universal application by which to test .
is pnre or a mixture of components of different densities iS of diffusion .
By this means Graham succeeded in effecting a separation of the nirogen and of the air , in spite of the atively small diffel.ence of densities .
If the atmosphere unknown gas of .
like the density supposed , it possible to prove the fact operations conducted upon air which atmolysis .
Ths experiment , although in view from , wa not exec.uted until a later of the inquiry ( SVI ) , esults were obtained sufficient of themselves to prove that the phere contains a eviously u gas .
But the method of sion was capable of deciding main , or at any rate the first lestion , it held out no prospect isolating the ) constituent of the atmosphere , and we , turned our attention in the firsb instance to the consideration methods more strictly chemical .
And here the question forced upon us as to what ] was the evidence in favour of the doctrine that the inert residue from air withdrawal of water , and carbonic ydride , is all of one kind .
Tho identitication of " " phlogisficated air " " with the constituent ic acid is due to Cavendish , whose method consisted in with electric sparks upon a short column of gas confined with over mercury at the upper end of an iuverted tube .
* Attempts to repeat Cavendish 's experiment in Cavendish 's have only increased the admiration with which we regard this derful investigation .
Working on almost microscopical quantities maerial , and by operations extending over days and weeks , he established one of he most important facts in chemist1y .
And is still more to the purpose , he raises as distinctly as we could do , a certain extent resoIves , the question above suggested .
passage is so important that it will be desirable to quote it ) " " As far as the experiments }herto published extend , we know more of the phlogisticated part of our atmosphere , than is not diminished by lime-water , caustic alkalies , or nitrous air ; it is unfit to support fire , or maintain in animals ; and specific gravity is not much less than that of common air : so the nitroos acid , by being united to is in air possessed of hese properties , and consequently , * ' ' Experiments on Air ' Phil. ' vol. 75 , p. 372 , 1785 .
I.e. , deprived of oxygen .
" " Phlogisticaled air\ldquo ; nitrogen , oxygeu .
Argon , a new Constituent of A tmosphere .
271 to suppose , that part at least of the air atmosphere consists of this united to phlogiston , yet it fairly to be doubted whether the whole is kind , or whether there are not in reality many different substances comounded together by us under the name of phlogisticated air .
I therefore made an expel.lment to determine whether the whole of a given portion of the the hlo air of the atmosphere could be reduced to nitrous acid , or whether there was llot a part a 1eren a nature to the re , st , which would refuse to undergo that change .
The iments indeed in meastlre decided point , as much the greatest part of the let up into the tube lost its elasticity ; yet as some remained unabsorbed it did not ppear for certa whether was of the same nature as the rest or not .
For this purpose I ninished a similar mixture of dephlogisticated and common air , in the same as before , till it was reduced to a small part of its original bulk .
I then , ill order to decompound as much as could of the phlogisticated air remain the tube , added some isticated air to it , and continued spark until no furthcr diminution took place .
Having by these means condensed as much as I could of the phlogisticated air , I let up some solution of liver of snlphur to absorb the dephlogisticated ai ; afber which only a small bnbble of air remained , }which certainly was not more than of the bulk of the phlogisticated air let up into the tube ; so that if is any of the ated a. of atmosphers which differs the rest , and cannot be reduced llitrous acid , we may safely conclude that it is not more than part of the whole Although Cavendish was satisfied with his result , and does not decide whether the small residue was nuine , our experiments about to be relaled render it not improbable that his residue was really of a difEerent kind from the main bulk of the " " phlogisticated air and contained the gas now called argon .
avendish gives data* from whioh it is possible to determine the rate of absorption of the mixed gases in his experiment .
This w\amp ; ft about 1 .
per hour , of which two-fifths be III .
Methods of Causing Free Nitrogen to Combine .
To eliminate nitrogen from order to ascertain whether any other gas could be detected , involves the use of some absorbent .
The elements which have been to combine directly with nibrogerl are : boron , silicon , itanium , libhium , strontium , barium , magr ) esium , aluminium , jury , and , under the fluence of electric discharge , hydrogen in presence of acid , and oxygen in presence of alkati .
* PhiL Trans vol. 78 , p. 271 , 1788 .
Lord Rayleigh and Prof. Ramsay .
Besides these , a mixture of barinm carbonate and carbon temperature is known to be effective .
Of those the form of turnings was found to be the best .
When is passed over magnesium , heated in a tube of hard glass to redness , combustion with incandescence begins at the end of through which the gas is introduced , and proceeds regularly all the metal has been converted into nitride .
Between 7 and 8 of nitrogen can be absorbed in a tube ; the nitride formed porous , dirty orange-coloured substance .
IV .
Early Experiments on Sparking trogen with Oxygen in presence of Alkah In our earliest attempts to isolate the suspected gas by the of Cavendish , we used a Ruhmkorff coil of medium size actuated a battery of five Grove cells .
The gases were contained in a tube standing over a large quantity of weak alkali , and the was conveyed in wires insulated by -shaped glass tubes through the liquid round the mouth of the test-tube .
With the battery and coil a somewhat short spark or arc of about 5 mm. found to be more favourable than a longer one .
When the gases were in the right proportion the rate of absorption was 30 .
per , or thirty times as fast as Cavendish could work the electrical machine of day .
To take an example , one experiment of this kind started 50 .
of air .
To this oxygen was gradually added until , in excess , there was no perceptible contraction during an .
The remaining gas was then transferred at the trough to a small measnring , sealed by mercury , in lvhich volume was found to be .
On treatment with alkaline gallate , the gas shrank to c.c. That this small idue not be nitrogen was argued trom the fact that it had withstood prolonged action of the spark , although mixed with oxygen in the most favourable proportion .
The residue was then transferred to the test-tube with an of another 50 .
of air , and the whole vorked up with oxygen before .
The residue was now , and , after removal of 0 .
Although it seemed almost impossible these residues coold either nitrogen or hydrogen , some anxiety was not unnatnral , that the { inal sparking took place under somewhat abnormal tions .
The space was very restricted , and the temperature it the proportion of aqueous vapour ) was unduly high .
doubts that were felt upon this score were removed by experiments in which the whole quantity of air operated on was a new Constituent of the Atmosphere .
when a mixture of 5 .
of air with 7 .
of oxygen for hours , the residue was c.c. , and after removal 0 . .
Several repetitions having given similar results , clear that the final residue did not depend upon ight happen when sparks passed throug a greatly reduced but was in proportion to the amount of operated upon .
oetory examination of the residue which refused to be could be made without the accumulation of a]arger quantity .
however , was difficult of attainment at the time in question .
thought that the cause probably la .
in the solubility of the a suspicion since confirmed .
At length , however , a suffiwas collected to allow of sparking in a specially constructed when a compal.ison with the air spectrum , taken under simila proved that , at any rate , the gas was not nitrogen .
At a trace of the principal nitrogen lines could be seen , bot over water for an hour or these lines became Experiments on Withdrawal of Nitrogen from Air by of Red-hot Magnesium .
preliminary experiment carried out by Mr. Percy Williams on absorption of abmospheric nitrogen , freed en by meaIlS red-hot copper , in which the gas was not passed over , but simply to remain in contacwith the metal , gave a residue of density This resulb , although not conclusive , was .
; and attempt was made , on a larger scale , by atmospheric backwards and forwards over red-hot magnesium from one gas-holder to another to obtain a considerab ] quantity of the gas .
In the course of ten days , about .
were collected transferred gradually to a mercury gas-holder , from which the was passed over soda-lime , phosphoric anhydride , gnesium at eat , copper oxide , soda-lime , and phosphoric anhydride into mercury gas-holder .
After some days the gas was reduced voIume to about 200 , and its density was found to be { urther absorption , in which the volume was still further rethe density of the residue was increased to sparks for several hours ough a mixture of a small of this gas with oxygen , its was still further reduced .
that this reduction was due to the further elimination of , the density of the remaining gas was calculated to be of the gas of density , though showing showed many other lines which were not recognisable as to any known element .
Lord Rayleigh and Prof. Ramsay .
VI .
Proof of the Presence of Argon in Air by means of It has already ( SII ) been suggested that if ' atmospheric two gases of different densities , it should be direct evidence of the fact by the method of atmolysis .
present section contains an account of carefully conducted ments directed to this end .
The atmolysor ( after Graham ) by } ) ining ber of " " churchwarden\ldquo ; tobacco pipes .
At { irst used in three groups , each group including four pipes series .
The three groups were then connected in parallel , and in a large glsss tube closed in such a way that a partial be intained in the space outsidc the pipes by a pump .
One of the combination of pipes was open to atmosphere ; the other end was connected to a bottle aspirator , itially full of water , and so arranged as to draw about 2 per of the air which entered the other end of bhe .
The lected wtis thus a very small proportion of that which hrough the pores of the pipes , and should be relatively rich the heavier constiments of the atmosphere .
The flow of from the could not be maintained ver constant , rate of 2 per cent. was never much exceeded .
The air thus obtained was treated exactly as ordinary been treated in determinations of the density of atmospheric gen .
Oxygen was removed by red-hot copper , followed by oxide , ammonia by sulphuric acid , moisture and carbonic poash and phospboric anhydride .
In a total weight of approximately grams the excess of of the diffused over ordinary atmospheric nitrogen four mean excess of the four determinations is we the first , which depended upon a vacuum weigbing months old , gram .
The from prepared air was thus in every case denser ullprepared air , and to an extent much beyond the errors of experiment .
The excess was , however , less than had expected , and it was thought that the ement of ths could be improved .
The final delivery of gas from each groups in parallel being so small in comparison with the btreams concerned , it seemed possible that group was not tributing its proper slIare , and even that there might be a wrong direction at delivery end of one or two of meet this objection , the arrangement in parallel had to be and for the remaining experiments eight pipes wers simple series .
The porous face in operation was thus Argon , a new Constituent of the Atmosphere .
27.5 was partly compensated for by an improved vacunm .
Two were made under the new conditions , in which the excess 0.0037 ; II , excess being larger than before is doubtless due to the greater of the atmolysing apparatus .
It should be mentioned that recorded experiments include all that have been tried , and conclusion seems able that " " atmospheric ogen \ldquo ; is a and nob a simple body .
was hoped that ) concentration of the heavier ConStituent be sufficient to ] itate its preparation in a pure state by use of prepared air in substitution for ordinary air in the apparatus .
The advance of milligrams on the 11 milliby which atmospheric nitrogen is heavier bhan chemical is indeed not to be despised , and the use of prepared air be convenient if the diifusion apparatus could be set up cu large scale and be made thoroughly self-acting .
VII .
Negative to ihat not , om from Sources .
the evidence of the existence of argon in the atmospt ) from the comparison of densities of atmospheric and emical and from the diffnsion experiments , appeared overwe have thought it able to any labour would tend to complete the vel.ification .
With this object in an experiment was u1ldertaken and carried to a conclusion on 13 , in which 3 litres of chemical nitrogen , prepared from nitrite , were treated with oxygen in precisely the manner which nitrogen had been found to yield a residue of The gas at the lose of the large scale operawas worked up as usual wibh battery and coil ulltil the specowed only traces of the nitrogen lines .
Wben cold , residue measured 4 .
This was transferred , and after treatwith alkaline pyrogallate to remove oxygen measured atmospheric nitrogen had been employed , the final residue should about .
Of the .
actually left , a part is for by an accident , and the result of the experiment is to that argon not formed by sparking a mixlure of oxygen chemical nitrogen .
a second experiment of the same kind .
of ammoninm nitrite was treated with oxygen .
final residue , and was found to consist mainly of argon .
8011rce the residual argon is to be sought in the water for the manipulatiou of large quantities of gas ( 6litres of and 11 litres of oxygen ) employed .
When carbonic acid Lord Rayleigh and Prof. Ramsay .
was collected in a similar manner and subsequently potash , it was found to have acquired a contamination with this explanation .
ative expe ] iments were also carried out , absorbing means of magnesium .
In one instance 3litres of nitrogen from ammoninm chloride and bleaching-powder was volume to , and on sparking with oxygen its further reduced to about 3 .
The residue appeared to argon .
Another iment , in which 15litres of ammonium nitrite was absorbed , gave a finai residue of ' nitrogen , in the latter case , would have yielded hence less than of the normal quantity was should be mentioned that occurred at one stage , perlJaps 2 .
of air entered the apparatus ; and , besides , gen was collected over water from which it doubtless argon .
Quantitative negative experiments of this nature are ingly difficult , and require a long time to carry them to a VIII .
Separahon of Argon on a Large Scale .
To prepare argon on a large scale , air is freed from oxygen of red-hot copper .
The residue is then passed from a through a combustion-tube , heated in a furnace , and copper , in order to nove all traces oxygen ; tlJe then dried by passage over soda-lime and phosphorus after passage tlJrougb a small tube containing sulphuric indicate the rate of flow .
It then enters a combustion-tube tightly with turn , and heated to redness in a furnace .
From this tube it passes through a second enters a small gas-holder capable of co1ltaining 8 or 4litres .
tube of nesium will absorb from 7 to 8litres of temperature must be nearly that of the fusion of the current of gas must be carefully regulated , else the heat by the union of the nesium with nitrogen will fuse the Having collected residue from 100 or 150litres of nitrogen , which may to 4 or 5 litres , it is small gas-holder connected with an apparatus , whereby , by a species of a self-acting pump , the gas is caused late through a tube ] filled with copper amd half oxide ; it then traverses a tube half filled with soda-lime with phosphorus pentoxide ; it then passes a reservoir 800 .
capacity , from which , by raising a mercury be expelled into a small gas-holder .
Next it passes containing magnesium turnings heated to bright redness .
Argon , a of the Atmosphere . .
277 from any possible contamination with oxygen , hydrogen , and nitrogen is gradually absorbed .
As the amount in the tubes and reservoir diminishes in volume , it draws supthe gas-holder , and , finally , the circulating system is full in a pure state .
The circulating system of liubes is conwith a mercury pump , so that , in changing the magnesium gas may be lost .
Before ceasing to heat the the system is pumped empty , the collected gas is restored the older ; finally , all the argon is transferred from the merreservoir to the second small gas-holder , which should preferbe filled with water saturated with argon , so as to prevent contamination from oxygen or nibrogen ; or , if preferred , a mercury gas-holder may be employed .
The complete removal nitrogen from argon is very slow towards the end , but circ for a cou ple of days usually effects it .
The principal objection to the oxygen of isolating argoD , hitherto described , is the extreme slowness of the operation .
In the scale we had the great advantage of the advice of Mr. who not long since called attention to the flame terminals , which convey a high tension electric and pointed out its dependencs upon combustion of the and oxygen of the air .
* The plant consists of a De Meritens actuated by a gas , and the currents are tranformed to potential by means of a Ruhmkorff or other suitable induction The highest rate of absorption of the mixed gases yet attained is per hour , about 3000 times that of Cavendish .
It is necessary keep the apparatos cool , and from this and other causes a good many difficulti have been encountered .
In one experiment of this kind , the total air led in after seven days ' amounted to 7925 , and of oxygen ( prepared from of potash ) , 9187 .
On the eighth and ninth days oxygen was added , of which about 500 .
was consumed , while there about 700 .
in the flask .
Hence the proportion in which air and oxygen combined was as 79 : 96 .
The progress of the of the nitrogen was examinod from time to time with the and became ultimately very slow .
At last the disappeared , the contractir ) having apparently stopped for two It is worthy of notice that with the removal of the ogen , arc discharge changes greatly in appearance , becoming narrower blue rather than greenish in colour .
final treatment of the residual 700 c.c. of gas was on the model le already described .
Oxygcn or bs supplied at pleasure from an electrolytic apparatus , but in could the volume be reduced residue * ' Chemical News .
' vol. 65 , p. 301 , lS02 .
Lord Rayleigh and Prof. Ramsay .
refused oxidation , and showed no trace of the yellow line even under favourable ions .
When the gas stood some days over water , the reasserted itself in the spectrum , and many hours ' sparking little oxygen was required again to get rid of it .
IuteIJtional tions of air to gas free from nitrogen showed that about per was clearly , and about 3 per cent. was conspicuously , visible .
the same numbers apply to the isibility of nitrogen in sparked under these conditions , that is , at atmospheric with a jar connected to the secondary terminals .
IX .
Density of Argon prepared by means of Oxygen .
A first estimate of the density of argon by the method was founded upon the data already recorded respecting volume present in air , on the assumption that the accurately densities of atmospheric and of chemical nitrogen differ on of the presence of argon in the former , and that during the meant with oxygen nothing is oxidised except nitrogen .
Thus , density of chemical , , atmospheric nitrogen , argon , proportional volume of argon in atmospheric nitrogen the law of mixtures gives or In this formula are small , but they are with fair accuracy .
From the data already given whence if ( on an arbitrary scale of reckoning ) , we find .
Thus if be 14 , or be 16 , of argon is A direct determination byhing is , -Dut hitherto not been feasible to collect by means sufficient to fill the globe employed for other gases .
A of about 400 .
of wibh pure oxygen , however , gave the weight , 0.1045 cess of the weight of oxygen , .
Thus , if be the of the volume of argon to the whole volume , the number for will be Argon , a new Constituent of the of , being involved only in the excess of weight above oxygen , does not require to be known very accurately .
Sufficoncordant aualyses by two metbods gave ; whence the eight of the gas we get , so that , if , the density the gas would be 1945 .
An allowance for residual nitrogen , still visible in the gas before admixture of oxygen , raises this number to , which may be taken as the of pure argotl resulting from this determination .
X. Densify of Argon prepared by means of Magnesinm .
The density of the original sample of argon prepaxed has already been mentioned .
It was ; and , after sparking with oxygen , it was calculated to be .
The most reliable results of a number of determinations give it as .
The difficulty in accurately determining the density is to make sure that all nitrogen has been removed .
The sample of density showed no spectrum of nitrogen when examined in a vacuum tube .
It is right , however , to remark that the highest density registered was .
But there is some reason here to distrust the of the vacuous XI .
Spectrum of Argon .
The of argon , seen in a vacuum tube of about 3 mm. , consists of a great number of lines , distributed over almost the whole visible field .
Two lines are specially acteristic ; they are less refrangible than the red lines of hydrogen or libhium , and serve well to identify the gas , when examined in this .
Mr. Crookes , who will give a full account of the spectrum in a separate communication , has kindly furnished us with the accurate wavelengtbs of these lines , as well as of some others next t , o be descl.ibed ; respectively and 70564 , mm. Besides these red lines , a bright yellow line , more rangible than the sodium line , occurs at .
A group of five ight grecn lines occurs next , besides a number of .
Of the group of five , the secon , which is perhaps the most brilliant , has the wavelength .
There is next a blue or blue-violet of longth ; and last , in he less easily visible of the there are five strong vioict lines , of the fourth , which is the brilliant , has the -length Unfortunately , the red lines , which are not to be mistaken for of any other substance , are not easily seen wl1en a jar discharge through argon at atmospheric pressure , unless a ] arge jar very powerful rent be employed .
The spectr.um seen hese conditions has been examined by Professor Schuster .
lines are perhaps those in the neighbourhood It is necessary to fmticipitate Mr. Crookes ' communication , state that when the current is passed from the induction coil direction , that end of the capillary tube next the positive pole a redder , and that next the ative pole of a bluer hue .
in effect , two spectra , which Mr. Crookes has succeeded in to a considerable extent .
Mr. E. C. C. Baly , who has noticed a phenomenon , attributes it to the presence of two gases .
He " " hen an electric current is passed thron a mixture of two one is separated from the other and appears in the negative conclusion would follow that what we have termed " " argon\ldquo ; in a of two gases which have as yet not been rated .
This conclusion , if true , is of great importance , and are now in progress to test it by the use of other methods .
The full earing of this possibi ] will appear later .
The presence of a small quantity of nitrogen interferes with the spectrum .
But we have found that in a iuum electrodes , after the discharge has been passed ours , the spectrum of nitrogen disappears , and the argon manifests irself in full purity .
A specially constructed ma , nesium electrodes , which we hoped would yield good moved all traces of nitrogen , it is true ; but hydrogen was from the magnesium , and showed its cbal'acteristic strongly .
However , these are easily identified .
The gas heating nesium in vacuo , as proved by a separate consists entirely of hydrogen .
Mr. Crookes has established the of the chief lines spectrum of gas separated from air-nitrogen by aid of with that remaining after the air-nitrogen with presence of caustic soda soIution .
Professor Schuster also has found the principal lines { he spectra of the two gases , as observed by the jar atmospheric pressure .
* ' Proc. Phys. Soc 1893 , p. 147 .
Argon , a new Constituent of the A tmospher.e .
XII .
Solubility of Argon in Water .
of the solubility in water of argon , prepared by gave volumes per 100 of water at .
The solubiliby prepared by means of magnesium was found to be volumes 100 at .
The gas is therefore about times as soluble as and possesses approximately the same solubility as oxygen .
fact that argon is more soluble than would lead us to it in increased proportion in tbs dissolved gases of rain water .
Experiment has confirmed this anticipation .
" " Nitrogen\ldquo ; prepared from the dissolved gases of water supplied from a rain-water cistern weighed upon two occasions .
The , corresponding to those recorded in S , were and , showing an excess of 24 milligrams above the weight of true nitrogen .
Since the correspondiug excess for " " atmosphe nitrogen \ldquo ; is 11 milligrams , we couclude that the water " " ogen \ldquo ; is relatively more than twice as in argon .
On the other hand , gas evolved from the hot spring at Bath , and collected for us by Dr. A. Richardson , gave a residue after removal and carbonic acid , whose weight was only about midway that of true and atmospheric nitrogen .
XIII .
Behaviour at Low Temperaturcs .
* Preliminary experiments , carried out to liquefy argon at a pressure about 100 atmospheres , and at a temperature of , failed .
of liquefaction could be observed .
Professor ] Olszewski , of Cracow , the well-known authority the constants of liquefied gases at low temperatures , kindly offered make experiments on the liquefaction of argon .
His results are in a separate communication , but it is allowable to that the gas has a lower critical temperature and a boiling point than oxygen , and that he has succeeded solidifying argon to white crystals , meIting at .
The denof the liquid is ] ) of oxygen being of nitrogen .
The sample of gas he experimented with was pure , and had been prepared by help of crnesium .
It no trace of nitrogen when examined in a vacunm tube .
XIV .
iRatio of Specific Heats .
to decide regarding the ary or compound nature experiments were made on the velocity of sound in it .
It remembered that , from the velocity of sound in a gas , the nrrangements for the experiments upon this branch of the subject were in Professor Ramsay.s hands .
282 Lord Rayleigh and Prof. Ramsay .
ratio of specific heat at constant pressure to that at can be deduced by means of the when is the frequency , the wave-length of sound , its the isothermal elasticity , the density , the rection , the specific heat at constant pressure , and that at volume .
In comparin two gases at the same temperature , which obeys Boyle 's law with sufficient approximation , and bhe same sound , many of these factors disappear , and the specific of one gas may be deduced from that of the known , by means of the proportlon where , for example , and refer to air , of which the ratio according 10 observations by Rontgen , Wul]ner , Kayser , and and Richard .
Two completely diflerent series of observations , one in a about 2 mm. diameter , and one in one of 8 mm. , made with different samples of gas , gave , the first , as the ratio , second , xperiments made with the first tube , to test the working , gave for carbon dioxide the ratio , instead of mean of all previous determinations ; and the half sound in hydrogen was found to be , instead of those previously found .
The ratio of the specific heats of found was , instead of can doubt , therefore , that argon gives ratio of specific heats , , proper to a gas in energy is translational .
The only other gas which has behave similarly is mercury gas , at a high temperature .
* XV .
Attempis to Chemical Combinafion .
Many attempts to induce argon to combine will be in the complete paper .
Suffice it to say here , that all snch have as yet proved abortive .
does not combine with presence of alkali under the influence of the ] ectric nor with hydrogen in presence of acid or alkali also when nor with chlorine , dry or moist , when sparked ; nor with at a bright-red heat , nor with sulphur at bri redness .
may be distilled in a current of the gas ; so may sium , their metallic lustre remaining unchanged .
It * Kundt and Warburg , Pogg .
Ann vol. 157 , p. 353(1876 ) .
Argon , a new Constituent of the Atmosphere .
283 by passing it over fused red-hot caustic soda , or soda-lime to bright redness ; it passes unaffected over fused and bright potassium nitrate ; and red-hot sodium peroxide does not comwith it .
Persulphides of sodium and calcium are also without at a red beat .
Platinum black does not absorb it , nor does sponge , and wet and orinating agents , such as nitro-hydrochloric acid , bromine water , bromme and alkali , and hydrochloric acid ttnd auate , are entirely without action .
Experiments with fluorine are in contemplation , but the diffioulty is great ; and an attempt will bo made to produce a cal.bon arc in the .
Mixtures of sodium and silica and of sodium and boracic anhydride are also wit action , hence it appears to attack by nascent silicon and by nascent .
General Condusions .
It remains , finally , to discuss the prob , ) nature of the gas , or mixture of gases , which we have succeeded in separating frolll atmospheric air , and which has been named argon .
The presence of argon in the atmosphere is proved by many ] ines of evidence .
The higher density of " " atmospheric nitrogen and the uniformity in the density of samples of chemical nitrogen prepared from different compou1lds , lead to the conclusion that the cause of the anomaly is the presence of a heav gas in air .
If that gas possess the density 20 compared with hydrogen , " " atnlospheric nitrogem\ldquo ; should contain of it approximately 1 per cent. This is , in fact , found to be the .
Moreover , as nitrogen is removed from air by means of red-hot magnesium , the density of the gas rises proportionabely to the concentration of the heavier con- atituent .
Second .
This gas has been concentrated in the atmospbere by diffusion .
It is true that it cannot be freed from oxygen and by sion , but the process of lsion increases , relatively to , the amount of in that portion which does not pass through the porous walls .
This has been proved by its increase Third .
As the solubility of argon in water is relatively high , it is to be expected that the density of the mixbure of are .
and nitrogen , pumped out of water along with oxygen , should , after the removal of the oxygen , exceed that of " " atmospheric \ldquo ; xperiment has shown that the density is considerably increased .
Nourth .
It is in the highest degree that two processes , erent from each other , should manufacture the same The is simple if be granted these processes merely eliminate nitrogen an .
Moreov .
if , a Lord RayJeigh and Prof. Ramsay .
ppears probable , argon be an element , or a mixture of acture would mean its separation from one of the employed .
The gas which can be removed from red-hot a cuum has been found to be wholly hydrogen .
chemical sources has been practically all absorbed by nlso when sparked in presence of oxygen ; hence argon resulted from the decomposition nitrogen .
That it is not from oxygen is sufficiently borne out by its preparation by agnesinm .
Other arguments could be adduced , but the above are justify the conclusion that argon is present iu the atmosphere .
The identity of the leading lines in the , the similar bility and the similar density , appear to prove the identity argon prepared by both processes .
argon is an element , or a mixture of elements , inferred from the observations of S XIV .
For Clausius has that if be the energy of translatory motion of the , and their whole kinetic energy , then and denoting as usual the specific heat at constant pressure at constant volumo respectively .
HeIlce if , as for mercury for argon ( S XIV ) , the ratio of specific heats be follows that K , or that the whole kinetic energy of the ounted for by the translatory motion of its molecuIes .
In of mercury the absence of interatomic energy is regarded the monatomic character of the vapour , and the conclusion ally good for ) The only alternative is to suppose that if argon molecules or yatomic , the atoms acquire no relative motion , even of a concIusion improbable in itself and one postulating the of such complex groups of atoms .
Now a monatomic gas can be only an element , or a elements ; and hence it follows that argon is not of a compound From Avogadro 's law , the density of a is half its weight ; and as the density of argon is approximately 20 , molecular weight must bo 40 .
But its molecule is identioal atom ; hence its atomic weight , or , if it be a mixture , the atomic weights of that mixture , taken for the proportion in they are present , must be 40 .
There is evidence both for and against the hypothesis is a mixture : , owing to .
Crookes ' observations of character of its spectrum ; against , because of statement that has a definite melting point , a definite Argon , a new Constituent of the Atmosphere .
critical temperature and ; and because on the gas in presence of its liquid , pressure remains sennstant until all gas has condensed to liquid .
The latter are the well-known of a pure substance ; the is not known with certainty to be characteristic of a conclusions which follow are , owever , so startling , that in out experimental work we shall to decide the question by other means .
the present , however , the balance of evidence seems to point to simplicity .
We have therefore to discuss the relations to elements of an element of atomic weight 40 .
We inclined for to the view that argon was possibly one or more than one of the elements which might be expected to follow in the perioclic classification of elements\mdash ; elements which should have an ato1nic weight between 19 , that of , and 23 , that of sodium .
But this view is apparently put out of court by the discovery of the monatomic ture of its molecuIes .
The of elements possessimg atomic weights near 40 are:\mdash ; Chlorine . . . . . . . . . .
Potassium . . . . . . . . .
Calcium . . . . . . . . . . .
Scandium . . . . . . . . . .
There can be no doubt that potassium , calcium , and scandium follow legitimately their predecessors in the vertical columns , lithium , beryllium , and boron , and that they are in almost tain relation with rnbidium , , and ( bub not so certainly ) yttrinm .
If argon be a single element , then there is reason to doubt whether the periodic classification of the elements is complete ; whether , in fact , elements may not exisb which nnot be fitted among those of which it is composed .
On the other hand , if argon be a mixture of two elements , they find place in the eighth group , one chlorine and one after bromine .
( the approximate mean veen the atomic of chlorine and potassium ) to be the atomic weight of the lighter element , and 40 the mean atomic we.ight found , and supposing that the second haa an atomic weight belween those of bromine , 80 , and rubidium , , 82 , the mixture should consist of per cent. of the lighter , cent. of the hcavier elcment .
But it appears improbable such a high percentage as of a heavier bhould have detection during liquefaction .
be supposed that argon belongs to the eighth group , then its would fit fairly well with what might be anticipated .
Fo which contains Si , , and 286 , a new of the A mosphere .
might be expected to end with an element of monatomic of no valency , i.e. , incapable of forming a compound , or if being an octad ; and it would form a possible transition to wibh its monovalence , on the other hand .
Such however , of a speculative nature ; yet they may be perhaps if they in any way lead to expel.iments which tend to throw light on the anomalies of this cnrio lls element .
In conclusion , it need excite no astonishment that argon is diflerent to reagents .
For mercury , although a omiC forms compounds which are by no means stable at a high in the gaReous state ; and altempts to produce compounds of may be likened to atempts to cause combination between gas at and other elements .
As for the physical , that of a gas , we possess no knowledge why carbon , low atomic , should be a solid , while nitrogen is a gas , in so far as we ascribe molecular complexity to the former and molecular simplicity to the latter .
Argon , with its paratively low density and its molecular simplicity , might well expected to rank among the gases .
And its inertness , which suggested its name , sufficiently explains why it has not been discovered as constltuent of compound bodies .
We would suggest for this element , assumiDg provisionally is not a mixture , the symbol A. We have to record onr thanks to Messrs. Gordon , Kellas , thews , who have matet'ially assisted us in the prosecution of oesearch .
Addendum by Professor RAMSAY , March 20 , 1895 .
Further determinations have been made of the density of prepared by means magnesium .
The mean result of six cordant weighings of different samples .
in which every care taken in each case to circulate the argon over magnesium for after all contraction had ceased , gave the density The value of in the gas-equation has beeu determined for argon , at temperatures determined by means thermometer filled with pure hydrogen .
I have found that the of remains practically constant between and ; greatest difference between the extreme values of amounts to per cent. Argon , therefore , behaves as a " " perfect\ldquo ; shows no sign of association on cooling , nor of heating .
The ratio of the specific heat a constant volume to that tant pressure has been reinvestigated ; the mean of four very ant determinations wiIh distinct samples of argon is Mr. W. Crookes .
On the Spectra of Argon .
molecular weight of argon is therefore , and the same xpresses its atomic weight , unless it be a mixture of two or of mono- and diatomic molecules of the same element .
of specific heats might support the last supposition ; but behaviour of the gas lends no support to this view .
IL ' On the Spectra of Argon By LIAlI CROOKES , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received January 26 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
Through the kindness of Lord Rayleigh and Professor Ramsay I have been enabled to examine the spectrum of this in a very accul.ate spectroscope , and also to take photographs of its spectra in a spectrograph fitted with a complete quartz train .
Argon resembles nitrogen in that it gives two distinct spectra according to the strength of the induction current employed .
But while the two spectra of nitrogen are different in character , one showing fluted bands and the other sharp lines , the spectra both consist of sharp lines .
It is , owever , very difficult to get argon so free from nitrogen that ib will not at first show the nibrogen flutings superposed on its own special system of lines .
I have used argon prepared Lord Rayleigh , ssor Ramsay , and myself , and , however free it was supposed to be from nitrogen , I could always detect the nitrogen bands in its spectrum .
however , disappcar when the induction spark is passed through the tube for some , time , varying from a few minutes to a few hours .
The vacuum tubes best adapted for showing the spectra are of the ordinary Plucker form , having a capillary tube in the middle .
For photographing the higher rays which are cut off by glass I have used a similar tube , " " end on a quartz window at one end .
pressure of argon giving the greatest luminosity and most spectrum is 3 mm. the pressure is further reduced , and a Leyden jar intercalated the circuit , the colour of the luminous discharge changes from red steel blue , and the spectrum shows an almost entireiy difset of lines .
I have taken photographs of the two spectra of argon partly superIn this way their dissimilarity is readily seen .
* In the of the blue glow I have counted 1191ines , and in that of glow 80lines , making 199 in all .
Of these 26 appear to be to both spectra .
said that the residual nitrogen is removed by sparking the of the different sp ectra- of argon , and other gaseous ) for projected on the screen .

