165 II .
" A Fourth Memoir upon Quantics .
" By ARTHUR C AYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received February 11 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present memoir is the further development of the theory of binary quantics ; it should therefore have preceded so much of my third memoir , vol. cxlvii .
( 1857 ) , p. 627 , as relates to ternary quadrics and cubics .
The paragraphs are numbered continuously with those of the former memoirs .
The first three paragraphs , Nos. 62 to 64 , relate to quantics of the general form ( jx , y,. .
) , and they are intended to complete the series of definitions and explanations given in Nos. 54 to 61 of my third memoir ; Nos. 68 to 71 , although introduced in reference to binary quantics , relate or may be considered as relating to quantics of the like general form .
But with these exceptions the memoir relates to binary quantics of any order whatever : viz. Nos. 65 to 80 relate to the covariants and invariants of the degrees 2 , 3 , and 4 ; Nos. 81 and 82 ( which are introduced somewhat parenthetically ) contain the explanation of a process for the calculation of the invariant called the discriminant ; Nos. 83 to 85 contain the definitions of the catalecticant , the lambdaic and the canonisant , which are functions occurring in Prof. Sylvester 's theory of the reduction of a binary quantic to its canonical form ; and Nos. 86 to 91 contain the definitions of certain covariants or other derivatives connected with Bezout 's abbreviated method of elimination , due for the most part to Professor Sylvester , and which are called Bezoutiants , Cobezoutiants , &amp;c. I have not in the present memoir in any wise considered the theories to which the catalecticant &amp;c. and the other covariants and derivatives just referred to relate ; the design is to point out and precisely define the different covariants or other derivatives which have hitherto presented themselves in theories relating to binary quantics , and so to complete , as far as may be , the explanation of the terminology of this part of the subject .

