530 The Ionisation of Various Gases by the / 3-Rays of Actinium .
By B. D. KleExMan , D.Sc .
, B.A. , Mackinnon Student of the Boyal Society .
( Communicated by Prof. W. H. Brag , F.R.S. Received February 16 , \#151 ; Read March 10 , 1910 .
) Experiments on the absorption of the / 8-rays from radio-active substances have shown that the rays from actinium are less penetrating than those from uranium or radium .
This is shown by Table I , which contains the coefficients of absorption of different materials obtained with the / 3-rays of actinium and uranium by Godlewski and by Rutherford and Crowther respectively .
It will be seen that the coefficient of absorption obtained in the case of aluminium with the / 3-rays of actinium is approximately double that obtained with the / 3-rays of uranium .
This indicates that the velocity of the actinium rays is on the whole less than that of the uranium rays .
Table I. 1 Absorbing substance .
Values of A. / 3-rays of actinium .
( G-odlewski .
) / 8-rays of uranium .
( Rutherford .
) / 8-rays of uranium .
( Crowther .
) Aluminium 32 -7 14 13 -7 Mica 33 17 -2 \#151 ; Brass 108 .\#151 ; \#151 ; Copper 139 60 60 -7 Tin-foil 154 \#151 ; 68 -9 Lead 163 122 122 -8 It also follows from the table that the coefficients of absorption obtained with the / 3-rays of actinium , do not increase so rapidly with the atomic weight of the absorbing material as the coefficients obtained with the / 3-rays of uranium .
We would expect this on comparing the absorption of the cathode rays produced in a discharge tube with the absorption of the / 3-rays of uranium .
Lenard found that with the cathode rays the ratio of the coefficient of absorption to density is practically the same for all substances , while from the experiments of Rutherford , Crowther , and others it follows that with the / 3-rays of uranium this ratio increases rapidly with the atomic weight of the absorbing material .
Therefore , with rays whose velocity The Ionisation of Various Gases by the of Actinium .
531 lies between that of the cathode rays and the / 3-rays of uranium , the increase will be less rapid than that obtained with uranium rays .
These considerations led the writer to undertake some experiments on the ionisations produced in different gases by the / 3-rays of actinium , and compare them withifjbhose obtained with the / 3-rays of uranium .
Such experiments would bring out the connection , if one exists , between ionisation and absorption .
Fig. 1 is a diagram of the apparatus used in these experiments .
The actinium which was used as source of / 3-radiation was contained in a small Fig. 1 .
metal dish a covered with a thin plate of mica .
The dish was placed near the aluminium window b of the ionisation chamber A , so that a large part of the / 3-radiation from the actinium entered the chamber .
The ionisation chamber was cylindrical in shape , its diameter was 12 cm .
, and its height 17 cm .
It was connected to a potential of 200 volts , and its electrode connected with an electrometer of the Dolezalek type .
B is a glass Hask of about double the capacity of the ionisation chamber A , by the help of which the chamber was obtained full of pure vapour .
The process of filling the chamber A with pure vapour consisted in closing the tap d , and opening the taps e and / , and exhausting the chamber and flask down to a pressure of about 2 mm. of mercury with a Fleuss pump , and then closing the tap f. Some liquid whose vapour was to be investigated was then poured into the funnel g , and by opening the tap d some of it was allowed to run into the glass bulb h. Evaporation of the liquid in li into the chamber A then took place , driving the remnant of air in A into the chamber B. When a convenient pressure of vapour was reached , usually amounting to several centimetres of mercury and indicated by the mercury gauge C , the tap e was closed .
The chambers were emptied of the vapours by drawing air through them for some time with a water pump , and then exhausting down to a pressure Dr. R D. Kleeman .
The Ionisation of [ Feb. 16 , of a few millimetres .
They were then left to stand for some time , after which air was passed again .
Table II gives the ionisation values for a number of gases in terms of air as the standard .
Each value is the mean of at least two readings taken at different pressures , which were so adjusted that the ionisation was proportional to the pressure in each case .
The values obtained previously* by the writer with the / 3-rays of uranium are also placed in the table .
It will be seen that the two sets of values are practically the same .
Table II .
Gras .
Relative ionisations .
\#163 ; -rays of actinium .
/ 3-rays of uranium .
Air 1 -oo 1 -oo h2 0-159 0-165 c4h10o 4-28 4-39 C2H6C1 3-33 3-24 C2H5Br 4-43 4-41 ch3i 5 -34 5-11 When the ionisation in a gas is proportional to the pressure , the total length of path traversed by the / 3-rays is approximately independent of the pressure and nature of the gas .
The scattering and absorption of the rays by the gas is in that case small .
The writerf has pointed out that since the ionisation by / 3-rays in a gas varies as the pressure , it is principally a measure of the number of S-rays produced , that is , of rays which have not sufficient velocity to produce any further ions themselves .
It follows , therefore , from the above result that the relative numbers of S-rays produced per unit length of path in different gases at the same pressure by a / 3-ray of actinium or uranium are the same .
The absolute numbers produced in the same gas are , however , probably very different .
The coefficients of absorption of different materials obtained with the / 3-rays of actinium differ considerably from those obtained with the / 3-rays of uranium , but relatively they are the same up to that of tin inclusive , whose atomic weight lies near that of iodine , the heaviest atom occurring in the gases used .
But this does not hold when the coefficients of absorption of lead are included .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 79 , p. 221 , 1907 .
t ' Proc. Carnb .
Phil. Soc. , ' vol. 15 , Part II , p. 175 , 1909 .
1910 .
] Various Gases by the / 3-Rays of 533 The ionisation per atom is approximately independent of chemical combination , * and this is also true for the absorption as measured in the usual way.f It appears , therefore , that the relative atomic ionisations and relative atomic absorptions for atoms up to tin inclusive are approximately independent of the velocity of the / 3-rays over a certain range .
The results obtained in this paper throw some further light on the nature of the ionisation in a gas by 7-rays .
The writer ( . .
) has shown that the ionisation by 7-rays is principally a measure of the number of 8-rays produced directly by the 7-rays .
A small part of the ionisation is produced by the / 3-rays of high velocity ejected from the molecules of the gas by the 7-rays .
The velocity of these rays in the case of the 7-rays of radium is approximately the same as that of the primary / 3-rays of radium .
There is a good deal of evidence that the velocity of the secondary / 3-rays produced by 7- or X-rays is the same as that of the / 3-rays which produce the 7- or X-rays .
It is very probable , therefore , that the high velocity / 3-rays ejected by the 7-rays of actinium have the same velocity as the primary / 3-rays of actinium .
The coefficient of absorption of the 7-rays of actinium is approximately the same as that of the secondary 7-rays } from zinc on which the 7-rays of radium are allowed to fall , viz. , equal to about 4 .
The high velocity / 3-rays ejected by these secondary 7-rays should therefore have approximately the same velocity as that of the / 3-rays produced by the 7-rays of actinium .
Now , the writerS found that the ionisation in methyl iodide , relative to air by the secondary 7-rays from zinc , is about twice as large as that obtained with the primary 7-rays .
This cannot be caused by the / 3-radiation from the walls of the ionisation chamber , since this would produce approximately the same relative ionisation in both cases .
The ionisation produced by the / 3-radiation of high velocity from the gas is small in comparison with that produced by the / 3-radiation from the walls of the ionisation chamber , for on account of the penetrating power of the rays , the amount of radiation from the walls is much greater than that from the gas .
It follows , therefore , that the larger ionisation in methyl iodide relative to air obtained with the secondary 7-rays than that obtained with primary rays must be due to a relatively larger amount of 8-radiation produced .
I wish to thank Professor Brag for his kind interest in these experiments .
* Kleeman , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 79 , p. 231 , 1907 .
+ Crowtlier , ' Phil. Mag. , ' p. 387 , October , 1906 .
t 'Phil .
Mag. , ' May , p. 652 , 1908 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 82 , p. 368 , 1909 .
2 r VOL. LXXX11I.\#151 ; A.

