368 Ilev .
S. J. Perry Magnetic [ Mar. 9 , of Vibration , " by which I made all my observations on the submarine boat and on armour-plated ships .
In this instrument the needle is 3*2 inches long and 0'17 inch in breadth .
The magnet is suspended on a silk thread and vibrates in a wooden box , on the side of which there are the divisions in degrees to mark the angles formed by the turning-needle ; for each observation I counted 700 vibrations .
I found that for such a voyage this instrument answers the purpose .
The exact drawing of this instrument you will find in my book on the " Submarine Boat , " 1867 , Plate VI .
Drawings 6 and 8 give half the size of the instrument , and drawing 7 the full size of the needle .
I know that General Sabine and the Royal Society are much interested now in the Northern Magnetic Observations , so I hastened to send the results to you , as I know that they cannot be printed soon in Russian .
I remain , your attached friend , John Belavenetz .
Cronstadt , ^ November , 1870 .
March 9 , 1871 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " Results of Seven Years ' Observations of the Dip and Horizontal Force at Stonyhurst College Observatory , from April 1863 to March 1870 .
" By the Rev. S. J. Perry .
Communicated by the President .
Received January 23 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present paper is to bring further evidence to bear upon an important question of terrestrial magnetism .
The existence of a sensible semiannual inequality in the earth 's magnetic elements , dependent on the position of the sun in the ecliptic , was deduced by General Sir Edward Sabine from a discussion in 1863 of a continuous series of the monthly magnetic observations taken at Kew .
A previous reduction of observations made at Hobarton and at loionto ha first suggested the idea , and a new confirmation of the results has lately been obtained by Dr. Balfour Stewart from subjecting a second series of Kew observations to the same tests as before .
The observations , wine form the basis of the present discussion , extend over the period from March 1863 to February 1870 , during which time the same instruments have been in constant use .
These are a Jones unifilar and a dip-circle y Barrow , both tested at Kew , and a Frodsham chronometer .
Sir Edwar Sabine , who made the Stonyhurst Observatory one of his magnetic stations 187 1 .
] Observations at Stonyhurst College .
369 in the English survey in 1858 , greatly encouraged the undertaking of monthly magnetic observations , and the Rev. A. Weld procured in consequence the instruments still in use .
Only occasional observations were made with these instruments for some years , and it was only in 1863 that a continuous series of monthly determinations of the magnetic elements was started by the Rev. W. Sidgreaves .
He observed regularly until September 1868 , when I returned to my former post at the Observatory , and I have continued the same work ever since .
A stone pillar was at first erected for the magnetic instruments in the open garden , and this remained in use from 1858 until the beginning of 1868 , when a most convenient hut of glass and wood was built for the instruments in a retired corner of the College garden .
This alteration was rendered necessary from the placing of iron rails in the vicinity of the old pillar ; and although it introduces into the results a correction for change of station , it has the great advantage of securing immunity from disturbance for the future .
Considering the object in view in drawing up this reduced form of the dip and horizontal-force observations , I have judged it advisable to adhere strictly to the tabular forms in which the matter has been presented in previous discussions of a similar nature .
Each element is the subject matter of these tables .
In the first are the monthly values of the element , the deduced mean value , and its secular variation .
Next in order comes the calculation of the semiannual inequality .
The residual errors , and consequent probable weights of the observations and results , ' compose the third and last Table .
The yearly mean values of the horizontal force are found to vary progressively from 3*5926 to 3*6178 in British units , the mean for Oct. 1st , 1866 , being 3*6034 , with a secular acceleration of 0*0042 .
Calculating from the monthly Tables the mean value of the horizontal force for the six months from April to September , and for the semiannual period from October to March , we find the former to be 0*0005 in excess over the latter , showing that this component of the intensity is greater during the summer than during the winter months .
Treating the dip observations in a precisely similar way , we obtain 69 ' 45 ' 21 " as the mean value of this element for October 1st , 1866 , subject to a secular diminution of l ' 49 , ,*2 ; the extreme yearly means being 69 ' 48 ' 47 " and 69 ' 37 ' 52 " .
The resulting excess of 10 " for the winter months in the computed semiannual means is so small , that the observations tend mainly to show that the effect of the sun 's position is not clearly manifested by any decided variation in the dip .
Deducing the intensity from the above elements , we obtain for the summer months the value 10*4136 , whilst that for the winter months is 10*4128 .
The intensity of the earth 's magnetic force would thus appear to increase with the sun 's distance , but the difference is not large enough to have more than a negative weight in the question under discussion .
This weight , moreover , is lessened by the slight uncer- 370 Production of Olefines from Paraffin .
[ Mar. 95 tainty arising from the probable disturbing causes at the first magnetic station .
It is hoped that a second series of observations at the new station will throw greater light on the fact of the sun 's influence on terrestrial mag-netism , by either confirming the results obtained above , or by adding fresh weight to the conclusions arrived at by the President of the Royal Society .
II .
" Preliminary Notice on the Production of the Olefines from Paraffin by Distillation under Pressure .
" By T. E. Thorpe , Ph. D. , Professor of Chemistry in Anderson 's University , Glasgow , and John Young .
Communicated by Professor Roscoe , P.R.S. Received February 2 , 1871 .
When paraffin is exposed to a high temperature in a closed vessel , it is almost completely resolved , with the evolution of but little gas , into hydrocarbons which remain liquid at the ordinary temperature .
This reaction will undoubtedly afford the most important insight into the constitution of this body .
Accordingly we have repeated this conversion on a large scale , and from about 3^ kilograms of paraffin melting at 44'*5 C. ( prepared from shale ) we have obtained nearly four litres of liquid hydrocarbons .
This mixture of hydrocarbons commences to boil at about 18 ' C. , but the quantity coming over below 100 ' C. is comparatively small ; by far the greater portion boils between 200 ' and 300 ' .
A preliminary separation shows that the four litres are made up of hydrocarbons boiling litres .
Between 200 ' and 300 ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2#7 " 100 ' and 200 ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1 " 0 Below 100 ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0-3 4-0 Up to the present we have principally occupied ourselves with the investigation of the fraction boiling below 100 ' , and have obtained conclusive evidence that it is mainly composed of , the proportion of members of the CnH2n-f-2 series being but small .
By repeated fractionations over sodium we obtained perfectly colourless liquids boiling about 35 ' and Go , which were attacked by bromine in the cold with the greatest energy .
On adding the bromine slowly and in minute drops , and carefully cooling the hydrocarbon by a mixture of snow and salt , scarcely a trace of hydro-bromic acid was produced .
The portipn boiling at 36 ' may be either amylhydride or amylene , or a mixture of both ; the avidity with which the bromine combines with it shows that the latter body must be present in considerable quantity .
As soon as the drops of bromine permanently

