547 Croonian Lecture.\#151 ; Alterations in the Development and Forms of Plants as a Result of Environment* By Prof. G. Klebs , University of Heidelberg .
( Lecture delivered May 26 , \#151 ; MS .
received June 25 , 1910 .
) I have to-day the great honour of delivering an address before the Royal Society , so long renowned as a centre of natural science ; but I do so with a certain hesitation , being aware that I am not sufficiently master of the English language , and have had but little time for preparation .
* In* consideration of this , I shall avoid entering too much into theoretical !
discussion ; I wish rather to lay stress upon the demonstration of the results of my experiments upon the Influence of Environment on Plants .
The problem of the relations of the organism to its surroundings is very old , but it has only recently become an object of active research .
In all branches of biology , as well as in the different fields of history , educational science , and so forth , we meet this fundamental problem and also the most conflicting views on it , some of which suffer from exaggeration of the influence of environment , others from its under-estimation .
We naturalists are guided above all by experience , and we use theoretica opinions to select such questions as can be tested by experiments .
In this way physiology tries to recognise the life-processes in their dependence on external factors .
Nutrition , growth , and all phenomena associated with stimulus and movement have been studied with great success .
On the other hand , the phenomena connected with the production of forms have been neglected , remaining exclusively a branch of the purely descriptive science of morphology .
In modern times , however , physiology claims to penetrate this mysterious region by means of experiment .
One of the most striking features of an organism is its development from a fertilised egg to maturity .
Every species goes through a clearly defined development , and shows from its first genesis a complicated series of successive changes of form , of which each is the necessary outcome of its predecessor .
This exceedingly regular course of development , consisting of successive internal alterations , is preserved under different conditions of life .
We can understand the presumption , considered self-evident in former times , and having its supporters even now , that this development is the expression of the inscrutable inner nature of plants .
According to this , * The Lecture as delivered was illustrated by numerous photographic slides , the publication of which is deferred for the present .
VOL. LXXX1I.\#151 ; B. 2 T 548 Prof. G. Klebs .
Alterations in Development and [ June 25 , external factors only supply material and energy to build up the organism , without influencing the course of its development .
But if this presumption were really true , we should have to give up hope of attaining anything more than pureljr descriptive treatment of form .
Fortunately , however , as modern biology shows , we can prove more and more that development can be altered in a far-reaching degree .
The fact that the internal alterations causing the definite form can be modified by alterations of environment is the key which opens the door to research .
It has been known for a long time that water-plants , when brought into a relatively dry atmosphere , change their form , and numerous other examples of form-modification due to environment are familiar to us .
But now we wish to elucidate the whole phenomenon of development , and to recognise the conditions of every stage .
Our aim is to control the whole life of the plant .
It is obvious , however , that we can only realise that which potentially exists in the internal structure of the species .
This structure , with all its potentialities , forms the basis of our experiments and can never be explained .
But this idea of further potentialities is what guides us in our quest of new discoveries .
The manner of development of a plant under ordinary conditions is only one of its many possibilities .
Nature must be much richer than appears under the influence of ordinary environment .
We seize upon this idea to create new kinds of environment , and thereby to produce new forms not otherwise occurring .
We shall recognise the methods and aims of the physiology of development better by making ourselves acquainted with the , facts than by long discussions .
I will first examine a single specimen of the lower plants\#151 ; the fungus Saprolegnia\#151 ; before we pass on to the higher ones .
A white mould , which belongs to the fungoid genus Saprolegnia , and to the species mixta , appears very frequently upon dead insects in swamps .
The fungus consists of tubelike branched filaments , known as the mycelium , which enter the body of the insect with their basal parts , and then spread out in the water .
For the first few days , vegetative growth rules exclusively , whilst the filaments grow longer and branch .
The second stage , characterised by the formation of asexual reproducing cells , follows the first .
The ends of the filaments swell up a little and are separated by a partition , producing , by division , numerous very minute cells , known as zoospores .
These make their exit through a hole and swim free in the water until they find a new substratum , in the shape of another dead insect , upon which they can settle .
The formation of zoospores takes place again and again on the mycelium for some days .
Finally , a third stage of development follows , namely , the formation o .sexual organs , male and female .
Spherical cells are formed on the filamen , ^ 1910 .
] Forms of Plants as a Result of Environment .
the so-called oogonia , which contain at least two and sometimes many more egg-cells , the oospheres .
Upon other filaments branches arise , which grow into the oogonia and , pressing against them , produce the male antheridia .
By means of a penetrating tube a part of the male fertilises the egg-cells , which turn into spores , germinating after some months of rest .
The fungus itself dies after a few weeks of development .
The question is whether this very regular succession of the different stages , each with its special forms and functions , is really dependent on internal causes .
- If we want to recognise the conditions of this development , we must first know as exactly as possible the conditions of life , especially the manner of nutrition .
The fungus is easy to cultivate either on a solid or in a liquid medium , which must contain principally nitrogenous substances , such as albumen , peptone , extract of peas , etc. In such very favourable solutions only vegetative growth of the mycelium takes place .
When we take care to keep up the good nutrition by putting a piece of the mycelium into fresh food solution from time to time , it continues to grow without interruption , and can never reach any other stage of development , for instance , the asexual or the sexual reproduction .
I devoted six years to carrying out this experiment .
We can just as little imagine that under constant external conditions the fungus reproduces by itself an alteration of its development , as that water becomes ice by itself under constant temperature and pressure .
Therefore , under such constant environment the fungus must be really immortal .
Each stage in its development requires an alteration of the external conditions , and the genesis of its reproduction is the beginning of its death .
The second stage of development , the formation of asexual zoospores , can easily be caused by putting a piece of the fungus from the food solution into pure water .
Innumerable zoospores come into existence during the next few days , till the mycelium finally dies .
The speed of formation depends on the temperature ; at 1 degree it is finished in 48 hours , at 20 degrees in eight hours .
The essential cause of the process is the decrease of nutritive substances in immediate proximity to the ends of the filaments .
To cause the formation of zoospores it suffices , for instance , to put the fungus from a solution containing 0'01 per cent , of peptone into one containing O'OOl per cent. We can effect the continuance of the formation of zoospores for a long time by cultivating the fungus on solid white of egg , and keeping it in water , which must be changed from time to time .
The filaments , being well nourished , grow into the but slightly nutritive water and continue to \#166 ; develop zoospores there as long as the substratum affords the necessary nourishment .
550 Prof. G. Klebs .
Alterations in Development and [ June 25 , The third fundamental stage of development is the formation of sexual organs .
If we want to bring this about , the whole of the growing fungus must be subjected to a slow decrease of its nutrition .
Sexual reproduction takes place much better when the external conditions at the same time prevent the formation of asexual zoospores .
Both stages are , in every case , independent of one another , because they are controlled by different conditions , and it is therefore possible to separate them .
We attain our object by cultivating the mycelium in a solution of leucin or haemoglobin ( haemachrome ) , mixed with inorganic salts .
After the quick growth of the mycelium in the first four or five days , the quantity of nutritive substances is diminished by degrees , and in consequence of this sexual organs appear in great numbers . .
We can replace the sexual stage by the asexual one without difficulty , by putting the mycelium with its oogonia into pure water , in which the ends of the filaments bring the zoospores into existence .
Sexual reproduction , itself a very complicated process , requires the formation of male and female organs .
De Bary long since observed that with some species of Saprolegnia egg-cells can mature without fertilisation by male cells , and therefore represent a simple case of parthenogenesis .
When the solutions of leucin or haemoglobin do not contain inorganic salts , the mycelium produces exclusively female organs , of which the unfertilised egg-cells become ripe spores .
Formation of male organs\#151 ; and therewith fertilisation\#151 ; takes place when salts , especially phosphates , are added .
It follows , from these facts , that the various stages of development can be produced or prevented as we may desire , and also that the succession ( order ) of the stages can be modified at will .
The typical behaviour of the fungus on the dead insect is only one case among many other potentialities , and is easy to understand from its relation to the alterations of environment .
The very strong growth of the jiycelium after settling on the insect , is the effect of highly nutritious food .
The filaments grow into the water , but in so doing they reach into surroundings of poor nutrition , and must thereupon produce zoospores .
The nutritive substances contained in the insect are gradually consumed , and the resulting general decrease of nourishment stimulates the fungus into the formation of sexual organs .
After the complete exhaustion of nourishment the death of the fungus ( with the exception of the resting spores ) takes place .
k .
... Numerous other lower plants , such as fungi or algae , show , in principle , the same relations to environment , provided that they can be well cultivated , n all such cases we observe that the alterations of environment essential to 1910 .
] Forms of Plants as a Result of Environment .
the different stages of development are multifarious .
But a result of general importance is obtained from experimental researches .
The different types of development are produced by quantitative alterations of those factors of nature which are necessary to all life , such as light , temperature , moisture , chemical composition of food , etc. Just as , in the case of the Saprolegnia , the quantitative decrease of nitrogenous substances is essential for the formation of zoospores , so , with the green algae , the same process takes place on a decrease of the intensity of light , of the concentration of inorganic salts , or of the temperature .
In other cases , an increase in regard to each of these factors is required to bring about the same result .
In view of our further discussion , it is important to bear in mind that the sexual reproduction of the green algae also follows this general rule .
The controlling factors are found to be a reduction in the supply of nutritive salts ( especially the nitrogenous ones ) and an increase in the intensity of light , the efficiency of the illumination being responsible for the formation of organic substances , such as carbohydrates .
We shall find that these alterations of environment even play a considerable part with the higher plants .
Whilst with the lower plants the deciding influence of environment is beyond doubt , it looks very much as if , with the higher plants ( and similarly with animals ) , development is independent of it .
In the first case , the external influences operate on the simple cells in a comparatively direct manner and in a short time .
But the higher plants are composed of different members , such as roots , stems , leaves and flowers , which stand in very close relation to one another and affect one another reciprocally .
Each alteration of an external factor has an influence upon all the different organs .
Those parts of the plant which really produce all new formations , such as the young embryo in the seed or the germinating point of the buds , are always enclosed and protected , so that all changes of environment are transmitted to them along exceedingly complex lines .
Further , it must be added that the special internal state of the plant susceptible to any reaction accounted for by environment is the result of conditions of life which existed long ago .
These original influences frequently gave the plant a definite tendency , which it continues to follow even though the external conditions vary considerably .
The development of flowering plants , carried out for innumerable generations under relatively equal conditions of life , is generally far more clearly defined than in the case of the lower plants .
In spite of all these and other difficulties , we must try to grasp the fundamental problem by means of experiments .
Our experience hitherto encourages us to advance , teaching us that the higher plants too are subject , 552 Prof. G. Klebs .
Alterations Development and [ June 25 in principle , to the same dependence on environment as algae and fungi , and , with the object of showing how far it is possible to-day to alter and to control the development of flowering plants , I will now proceed to explain more exactly the experiments which I have carried out during recent years with the plant-genus Sempervivum .
Sempervivum , the well-known house-leek , lives in our countries on walls or rocks , generally in dry places , and prefers high mountains , such as the Alps .
The body of the plant consists of a short thick stem , tightly covered with thick sappy leaves , and is called a rosette .
The plants can be reproduced either from seeds , or , what is more convenient for our experiments , by a vegetative process .
In the spring the rosette develops short small runners which , after growing some time , in turn develop rosettes at their apex .
The young rosette , having taken root in the earth and become separated from the mother-plant , repeats in the next year of its life the same process of reproduction .
It is therefore easy to propagate the plant , and all my material for the experiments with the species Sempervivum Funkiiis derived from a single plant .
According to the external conditions , a rosette can bloom in the third or fourth year of its life .
Then , without any formation of daughter-rosettes , the stem , hitherto quite short , begins to lengthen , and , after attaining a length of from 12 to 16 cm .
, commences to flower at the apex .
Below it from three to five branches bearing flowers shoot out .
After the ripening of the fruit , which takes place poorly with Sempervivum Funkii but freely with other species , the whole plant dies at the end of the summer .
The development of the inflorescence requires a long series of internal alterations of the plant .
Quite in the early spring the preliminary processes make the rosettes different to those producing runners with new rosettes .
This particular state of the plant , destined to bloom later but still without real rudiments , I shall term ripe to flower .
Hitherto it has not been possible to cause a rosette to flower in the second year of its life , but we can do so with great certainty in the third year by cultivating the plants during the first year in very rich soil , and for the second year in small pots with very little nourishment and in a relatively dry condition .
The principal question now is whether such a plant as Sempervivum flowers from innate necessity at a fixed time or , like the lower plants , can be altered at will in its development .
Our experiments prove that a very essential alteration can be attained by various methods .
We cultivate a plant , ripe to flower , during the months of February and March in a special soil-bed .
The bed itself is heated by pipes buried in the earth , is very rich in manure and moisture , and is covered with glass .
Under these 1910 .
] Forms of Plants as a Result of Environment .
553 highly favourable conditions of nutrition , it is impossible for the plants to flower in the summer , in spite of the advanced preparations for it .
The rosettes will be transformed into purely vegetative ones , which grow very luxuriantly and produce daughter-rosettes later on .
Here we have essentially the same behaviour as with the fungi and algae , which , as we know , under corresponding conditions continue to grow without reproduction .
The experiment can be modified without altering the result , when we cultivate a rosette , ripe to flower , from January to March in a hothouse .
An average temperature of 20 ' , taken in connection with the relatively high degree of moisture , also prevents flowering and produces vegetative growth , less , however , than in the warm soil-bed .
In April we are no longer able to alter the development by such experiments , because the internal preparations for flowering are far more advaned .
We must apply other methods , consisting of diminishing the production of organic substances by light .
The simplest way is the culture in complete darkness at a constant temperature of 26 ' .
By putting rosettes , ripe to flower , into the thermostat every day from the beginning of April we can determine the moment at which the transformation takes place .
Experiments , continued during several years , show that about the middle of April ( when no rudiments of flowers exist ) , the rosettes , originally ripe to flower , become vegetative again .
But this result differs from that already explained in an important point .
The rosettes lengthen some centimetres , and , when brought later on into the light , form a terminal rosette in place of the flowers .
A stay of two or three weeks in darkness during the month of April suffices to cause this alteration of the plant .
It is curious that , in spite of the later good culture during the summer , the altered plant does not flower during the same year .
The same result , but with a stronger growth of the axis , is attained by bringing the rosettes , ripe to flower , into a small house of blue glass which according to spectroscopical examination transmits only the more refrangible rays , from green to violet .
In comparison with normal white light , the production of organic substances , such as starch and sugar , is diminished under the influence of blue light , as microchemical and macrochemical tests distinctly show .
In consequence of this diminished assimilation of carbon dioxide the rosettes become purely vegetative , but they grow better than in darkness , and by the end of the summer can attain a length of as much as 20 to 30 centimetres .
During the same time , and under otherwise equal conditions , the plants were cultivated in houses of red glass , which admitted only the red rays .
In this light the carbon assimilation is greater than in the blue light but less 554 Prof. G. Klebs , Alterations in Development and [ June 25 , than in the white .
Indeed , a certain formation of flowers takes place in the red light , but it is less than the normal one .
On the other hand , the lengthening of the stem and of the flowering branches is exceptionally favoured , so that the appearance of the whole plant is sometimes very abnormal .
These experiments prove that the transformation of a plant , ripe to flower , into a vegetative one is possible on the one hand by means of an increase of temperature and manure ( that is to say , of inorganic salts ) , and , on the other hand , by means of a decrease of carbon assimilation .
We find , in this respect , full conformity with the behaviour of the lower green plants .
The whole process of formation of the inflorescence consists of numerous successive stages , of which we will distinguish only three essential ones ; firstly , the lengthening of the axis ; secondly , ramification ; and thirdly , the genesis of flowers .
What we desire to know is whether these stages can be separated from one another as though they were entirely independent .
We have just shown that the lengthening of a plant , ripe to flower , can take place without necessarily bringing on the other stages .
As a rule , the lengthening is a life-process which is connected with the flowering only in the ordinary conditions of life , but it is , in itself , wholly independent of it .
All rosettes , the vegetative ones included , can lengthen in darkness ; however , they do so better in the blue light and best of all in the red light .
According to the nutritive state of the rosettes and the intensity of the red light the plants cultivated therein obtain different forms .
The very young buds springing from the mother plant preserve their character as runners as long as they grow in red light and never develop into rosettes .
After some time in normal light they can produce new rosettes , not only on the apex but also at other places , an occurrence never to be observed in nature .
While on the one hand a lengthening without flowering can be attained , it is possible on the other hand to cause a flowering without lengthening .
When rosettes ripe to flower are cultivated at the end of April in very warm soil and in strong light , the flowers are developed at the top of the old rosette , without the axis lengthening .
Under ordinary conditions , the lengthened axis of the inflorescence produces from three to five flowering branches .
The number of these branches and of the flowers can vary in a high degree , for example when cultivated in a refrigerator all the branches are suppressed and , the inflorescence bears a single flower .
With a very vigorously fed plant we \#166 ; observe the production of numerous branches and flowers .
In this case the ^lowering branches proceeded not only from the axils of the highest leaves aiear the apex but also from those of the middle leaves .
The general 1910 .
] Forms of Plants as a Result 555 -capacity of all leaf-axils to produce new buds is only realised in experiments in which either the flowering rosettes are continuously fed on inorganic salts or when the top of the inflorescence is cut off .
In consequence of this injury , new branches or single flowers are to be found on the whole stem in the axils of all the leaves .
The flowers appear also in the axils of the old leaves of the rosette itself , when we extirpate the terminal bud of a rosette , ripe to flower but not yet lengthened , and cultivate it in strong light .
We have found that the terminal flower can be replaced by a leaf rosette under the influence of darkness or blue light .
From these facts we can draw the conclusion that at all other places suitable for the genesis of flowers rosettes can be caused quite as well .
In all such cases we meet with a .certain difficulty due to the peculiar quality of plants known as polarity from the researches of Vochting .
On the stem of a potato plant we observe that the different places produce different organs , as , for instance , on the basal parts , colourless runners and later on potatoes , while from a higher level of the foliage shoots or flowers arise .
A similar phenomenon can be observed with the stem of Sempervivum , whose basal parts have a tendency to form rosettes , whilst the apical ones tend to form flowers .
In opposition to the ideas of Vochting , who ascribes the polarity to innate hereditary .causes , I assume that the external conditions at the different places of a stem cause internal differences and thereby the formation of different organs .
At the basis near the soil the freer supply of water and nutritive salts favour the formation of rosettes , whereas the apical parts more distant from the soil , in drier air and receiving more light , give birth to the flowers .
These views are verified by the fact that in the experiments rosettes can arise anywhere in place of flowers .
A plant , ripe to flower , but made vegetative by blue light , when brought later on into an intense white light forms rosettes in all leaf axils .
Similar rosettes , continuously and vigorously fed during the formation of the inflorescence , produce new rosettes at the basal parts in the axils of the old leaf , after we have cut off the inflorescence .
But it is also possible to cause the formation of rosettes on the apical branches , and , according to the state of the plant and the variously combined influences , we succeed in obtaining manifold combinations of rosettes and flowers on the same plant .
Under ordinary circumstances the whole plant dies after the flowering \#166 ; and the ripening of fruit .
This natural death is not at all a consequence of an innate necessity , but only follows from the reproduction taken in connection with the limited nutrition .
All the plants which were compelled 556 Prof. G. Klebs .
Alterations in Development and [ June 25 , by environment to form rosettes in place of flowers continue to live during the winter under very careful treatment .
The stem becomes stronger and thicker , the rosettes go on growing , we get peculiar forms ( for instance , a very diminutive tree , which also can live until the following year , and perhaps even longer ) .
Such plants come to flower after two or three years and form a new inflorescence on the old stem .
The flowers , the essential parts of the inflorescence , represent organs with a very complicated structure , which is generally so constant for every species that it can be used as the most important factor in the determination and classification of the plants .
However , this constant behaviour will be observed only under the ordinary conditions of life .
As soon as we apply , at a suitable moment , special combinations of external influences , the flowers are subject to a variability even more intense than that of the vegetative organs themselves .
The production of normal flowers depends , as we know , upon a certain retrenchment of nutritive salts and on an increase of the organic substances conversely , it is prevented by rich manure and moisture or by a decrease of carbon assimilation .
When we produce the conditions so favourable to vegetative growth , either just before or during the first beginnings of flowers , the flowers become altered in every respect and in a high degree .
The best method is to let a well-fed rosette develop into an inflorescence and then to cut off its top at the time of flowering .
We further cultivate such plants in soil rich in manure and moisture , and in combination with a. high temperature or red or blue light .
In the leaf axils of the reduced inflorescence new flowers take birth under strongly altered conditions and then offer a surprising richness of variation .
I have not the time to enter into all the details , but will only deal with some of the more important points .
The flower of Funkii has a very regular structure , consisting of the same number of sepals , petals , and carpels , and of twice the number of stamens .
In the altered flowers the number of all these parts , varying independently of one another , shows strongly marked deviations .
Perhaps the various modifications of form in all the members of a flower are of even greater interest .
We observe the transformation of sepals into petals , of petals into stamens , of stamens into petals , of stamens into carpels , and of carpels into stamens ; in short , we find most of the deviations long known as teratological cases in the garden plants .
But with Sempervivum the majority of the deviations had not previously been seen , neither under natural conditions nor under cultivation .
They were first brought to light through the influence of external factors .
Among such deviations the formation of double flowers by the trails1910 .
] Forms of Plants as a Result of Environment .
55 formation of stamens into petals is particularly striking .
As far as we know , it does not occur in the Sempervivum of nature , while it is very frequent in the altered flowers .
This rapid sketch of my experiments with Sempervivum , of which the results are verified with other species , will show you , as I hope , what a decisive influence environment has on the development and form of a flowering plant .
The forms to be observed in nature correspond to the conditions .
Only by quantitative alterations and new combinations of the common factors can we recognise the inexhaustible richness of the potentialities lying in the specific inner structure of the cells .
Our scientific task consists in determining as exactly as possible the part played by all external factors , and ( what is far more difficult ) in examining the internal alterations , the results of which are the appearance of a definite form .
This physiology of development and form is a new branch of modern biology , investigated by botany and zoology at the same time .
During my explanation you will probably have asked yourselves what connection such results have with the question of the transformation of species .
The immortal work of Charles Darwin has had a far-reaching influence on all branches of biology , and has also given a fruitful impulse to the physiology of development .
But to avoid disappointments and misunderstandings , we must bear in mind that the study of the alterations of plants described by me has nothing to do directly with the question , and is also wholly independent of any theory .
We start from the fact , verified times without number , that every species has a constant innate structure , of which the reactions and variations depend on certain factors .
All the alterations of the Sempervivum take place only under definite conditions , and are replaced by others under different conditions .
A hereditary transmission of these alterations is improbable in the highest degree , and has never been observed .
But the question arises whether it is perhaps possible through particular effects of environment to cause internal changes which are transmissible to the descendants .
From horticultural experience we know of the appearance of some hereditary modifications , called by De Yries " mutations .
" We observe , for instance , among the individuals of a red flowering race ( genus ) , one which shows at once and in all its offspring white flowers .
We can cause the formation of white flowers by high temperature and feeble light as with Sempervivum .
But this alteration is only a simple variation which disappears again under ordinary conditions , while the white flowering plant , created as a mutation , preserves its character everywhere .
How such mutations , so important for horticulture , are produced is wholly 558 Alterations in the Development and Forms of , etc. unknown .
Reflecting that such mutations must be caused as a rule by alteration of the sexual parts , there is every prospect of obtaining seeds from the artificially altered plants .
For such researches , however , Funkii is not suitable , as it produces few ripe seeds .
I used acuminatum , another species , which can be altered in the same way as Funkii .
Highly altered flowers , with stamens transformed into petals , were carefully self-fertilised .
I thus procured a number of seedlings , which were cultivated under ordinary conditions .
In the fourth year of their growth the seedlings came to flower .
Out of 21 plants , four showed very surprising deviations at the inflorescence and in their flowers .
These deviations corresponded to those artificially caused in the mother plant .
With two seedlings particularly , all the flowers were altered in the same manner and showed transformations of stamens into petals .
A third seedling had flowers , all showing deviations in number and arrangement , and a fourth plant was marked by the formation of small rosettes and of curious intermediate forms .
Beyond all doubt these deviating seedlings sprang from artificially altered flowers , and it seems very probable that these alterations , after having influenced the sexual cells , are transmitted to some descendants .
The transmission came to light after four years at the moment of flowering under normal conditions of culture , and without the special methods necessary to the mother-plant having been applied .
Up to the present it is not possible to answer the most important question in the genesis of mutations , namely , whether such alterations can be transmitted to further generations also .
These researches are not yet finished , and I mention them only to emphasise the possibilities of experimental study in this direction .
Certainly it seems at present almost too much to hope that Man will be successful in producing new hereditary races artificially , by experimental methods .
Nevertheless , the hope of controlling Nature in this respect also is just what continually stimulates the naturalist and gives him strength and courage to strive onward in spite of numerous disappointments and failures .

