148 Dr. Hopkinson .
Electrostatic Capacity of Glass .
[ Dec. 9 , wood , which in the arrangement of its vessels and medullary rays resembles so closely the genus Platanus that it most probably i8 P. aceroides , which occurs at Mackenzie River in the leaf beds .
More complete details of my investigation will be found in my paper on the " Fossil Woods of the Arctic Regions , " in the forthcoming volume ( VI ) of the " Flora Fossilis Arctica , " by Professor Heer .
III .
" The Electrostatic Capacity of Glass .
" By J. Hopkinson , M.A. , D.Se .
, F.R.S. Received November 3 , 1880 .
( Abstract , ) In 1877 I had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society* the results of some determinations of specific inductive capacity of glasses , the results being obtained with comparatively low electromotive forces , and with periods of charge and discharge of sensible duration .
In 1878 Mr. Gordonf presented to the Royal Society results of experiments , some of them upon precisely similar glasses , by a quite different method with much greater electromotive forces , and with very short times of charge and discharge .
Mr. Gordon 's results and mine differ to an extent which mere errors of observation cannot account for .
Thus , for double extra dense flint glass I gave 10*1 , Mr. Gordon 3*1 , and subsequently 3*894 These results indicate one of three things , either my method is radically bad , Mr. Gordon 's method is bad , or there are some physical facts not yet investigated which would account for the difference .
Two possible explanations have been suggested : 1st , possibly for glass K is not a constant , but is \amp ; function of the electromotive force .
2nd .
When a glass condenser is discharged for any finite time , a part of the residual discharge will be included with the instantaneous discharge , and the greater the time the greater the error so caused .
To test the first I measured the capacity of thick glass plates with differences of potential ranging from 10 to 500 volts , and also of thin glass flasks between similar limits ; the result is that I cannot say that the capacity is either greater or less where the electromotive force is 5,000 volts per millimetre than where it is volt per millimetre .
The easiest way to test the second hypothesis is to ascertain how nearly a glass flask can be discharged in an exceedingly short time .
A flask of light flint glass was tested ; it was charged for some seconds , discharged for a time not greater than T7^00 second , and the residual charge observed so soon as the * " Phil. Trans. , " 1878 , p. 17 .
f " Phil. Trans. , " 1879 , p. 417 .
+ " Report of British Association , " 1879 .
1880 .
] On the Cochlea of the Ornithorhynchus platypus .
149 electrometer needle came to rest ; the result was that the residual charge under these circumstances did not exceed 3 per cent , of the original charge , also that it mattered not whether the discharge lasted iu0- second or Jg- second .
These experiments suffice to show that : neither of the above suppositions accounts for the facts .
I have repeated my own experiments with the guard ring condenser , hut with a more powerful battery , and with a new key which differs j from the old one inasmuch as immediately after the condensers are connected to the electrometer they are separated from it .
In no case do I obtain results differing much from those I had previously published .
Lastly , a rough model of the five plate induction balance used by Mr. Gordon was constructed , but arranged so that the distances of the plates could be varied within wide limits .
So far as instrumental means at hand admitted , Mr. Gordon 's method was used .
A plate of double extra dense flint and a plate of brass were tried .
In the first , by varying the distances of the five plates , values of K were obtained ranging from 1J to 8^ , with the latter values from to 3 .
It is clear that the five plate induction balance thus arranged cannot give reliable results .
The explanation of the anomaly , then , is that the deviation from uniformity of field in Mr. Gordon 's apparatus causes errors greater than anyone would suspect without actual trial .
It is probable that the supposed change of electrostatic capacity with time may be accounted for in the same way .
IV .
" The Cochlea of the Ornithorhynchus platypus compared with that of ordinary Mammals and of Birds .
" By Urban Pritchard , M.D. , F.R.C.S. , Aural Surgeon of King 's College Hospital .
Received November 9 , 1880 .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. ( Abstract .
) General Form of the Cochlea of the Duckbill or Ornithorhynchus .
This cochlea consists of a somewhat curved tube , about a quarter of an inch ( 6'3 millims. ) in length , and one-twentieth of an inch ( 1'26 millim. ) in diameter , projecting forwards from the cavity of the vestibule and embedded in the substance of the petrous bone .
It is nearly horizontal , and is slightly curved outwards .
In section the tube is first oblong , with its greatest diameter from top to bottom , then somewhat triangular , and finally oval , with its greatest diameter from side to side .
It terminates in a slightly enlarged rounded extremity , flattened from top to bottom .

