On the Physical Relation of Chloroform to Blood .
55 " On the Physical Relation of Chloroform to Blood .
" By A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 5 , \#151 ; Read June 9,1904 .
In connection with the preliminary communication by Moore and Roaf on certain physical and chemical properties of solutions of chloroform in water , saline , serum , and haemoglobin , * it may be of interest to publish the following communication .
The close similarity of the conclusions arrived at independently by different observers is such as to render the two communications mutually corroborative , and although the present communication forms part of a report by A. D. Waller and J. H. Wells , which is technically the property of a Special Chloroform Committee of the British Medical Association , there is obviously no reason why it should be withheld from publication .
It was originally presented as long ago as June 19 , 1903 , and I have since that time extended the experimental data upon which the conclusion rests .
In order , however , to preserve the complete independence of the two contributions I have preferred to communicate it in its original , and perhaps imperfect , form .
The importance of the blood as a chloroform carrier , by reason , presumably , of an easily dissociable compound , is the conclusion of principal importance arrived at in both series of investigations .
The original text of the report is as follows :\#151 ; " Our attempts to recover a known weight of chloroform from blood , by the French method ( extraction in vacuo followed by digestion with alcoholic potash and titration of chlorides ) , led us to make two simple experiments that very strikingly illustrate the fundamental difference between blood and simple salt solution or water as regards their absorptive power towards chloroform vapour .
The first of these experiments shows that equal volumes of blood and of normal saline are capable of absorbing very different volumes of chloroform vapour .
The second shows the converse fact that very different volumes of chloroform vapour are obtainable by evacuating equal volumes of blood and of water , or of normal saline .
In the first experiment the absorption by blood is greater than that by water .
In the second experiment the delivery from blood is less than that from water .
The inference from these two data is that blood possesses greater affinity for chloroform than does water , and that , therefore , in the transfer of chloroform by blood from the pulmonary air to the nervous centres that fluid does not act as a simple solvent , but rather as a temporary retaining and restraining medium , that helps to convert irregular into constant flow .
The blood has thus a controlling effect upon the process of anaesthesia that may be compared to the action of a fly* Communicated by Professor Sherrington , received April 12 , read May 5 , 1904 .
[ Ante , pp. 382\#151 ; 412 .
] 56 Dr. A. D. Waller . .
[ May 5 , wheel , or to that of the arterial elasticity , by which intermittent force effects constant flow .
The blood , acts as a chloroform reservoir ( or as an ether reservoir if ether be the anaesthetic employed ) .
In the first experiment we compared manometrfcally the absorptive power of blood and of water by introducing a known volume of each liquid in the two identical closed flasks connected with two petroleum manometers , and previously filled with chloroform and air of identical percentage .
The figures of a first trial were as follows for 50 c.c. of blood* and of water respectively in flasks of 600 c.c. capacity filled with chloroform vapour at 17 per cent.:\#151 ; Time of absorption .
.Flask A. W ater-absorption pressure .
Flask B. Blood-absorption pressure .
1 min. 186 mm. 243 mm. 20 mins .
191 246 60 192 246 A second trial , with the blood and water transposed , and the flasks charged by chloroform and air at lower CHClg percentages gave:\#151 ; ' CHC13 in flask .
Time of absorption .
Flask A. Blood-absorption Fl^sk B. W ater-absorption pressure .
pressure .
10 per cent. 4 mins .
110 mm. 56 mm. 7 'H ' ' 140 82 12 156 88 16 167 90 21 170 *5 92 6 * 0 35 34 4 62*5 43 9 69 44 13 71 45 17 72 50 60 ' 76 54 * The blood in this experiment was taken from the chloroformed animal , t.e. , contained some chloroform .
Blood fully saturated with chloroform has no further absorptive power .
Blood from an unchloroformed animal has a maximum absorptive power .
We have made preliminary trials to learn whether a rapid method of estimating the degree of saturation of blood with chloroform can be based on this principle , but our .results at present are not sufficiently advanced for report .
The figures given in the text are preliminary approximations , obtained by a first trial of a method which will require much further elaboration as regards its apparatus .
It will be noticed that , the gross difference in favour of blood comes out in spite of the fact that the water value and solvent power of blood are about 0*8 that of water .
Relation of Chloroform tp Blood1904 .
] The first part " of the absorption is lost in each case during introduction of fluid into the bottles .
The first pair of readings are taken at the end of the second minute .
The second readings at the end of the fourth minute , when both bottles are equally shaken for half a minute , after which the third readings are taken .
The fourth and fifth readings are similarly taken at the seventh minute , the bottles being shaken a second time , S2 .
The bottles are left at rest for 7 minutes before the last readings , which show that the absorption has been nearly but not quite completed .
10 min. -o Blood .
Figure showing Absorption Curves of \#166 ; Chloroform " Vapour by Water and by Blood .
The vapour in the two bottles .
was then passed into and through two densimeter bulbs by water displacement .
The increments of weight in the two cases were : in A 0*054 gramme , in B 0*032 gramme , showing that the residual atmosphere in A ( water ) contained more chloroform vapour than that in B ( blood ) .
58 Dr. A. D. Waller .
On Physical [ May 5 , In the second experiment the apparatus consisted of ( 1 ) a distilling flask ( containing the fluid to be evacuated , and a known weight of chloroform in a small glass bulb ) , ( 2 ) a receiver , and ( 3 ) a Geryk air-pump .
The receiver is first evacuated while shut off from the distiller .
It is then shut off from the pump , and placed in connection with the distilling flask , with the result that the liquid in the latter boils and gives up its dissolved gases , which are for the most part drawn over into the receiver .
The evacuation of CHCI3 is completed ( in the case of saline ; it is not completed in the case of blood ) by gentle heat , and by opening the inlet of the distilling flask so that a. rush of air takes place through the distiller to the receiver .
The inlet tube is drawn out to a fine point , and reaches to the bottom of the distilling flask ; the outlet tube is provided with a froth-bulb .
Finally the quantity of CHC18 in the receiver is estimated by Harcourt 's method .
In a first trial of this experiment with water in the distilling flask the result was as follows :\#151 ; Weight of CHCI3 taken ... ... ... ... .
0*082 gramme , " recovered ... ... .
0*065 " Deficit ... ... ... ... ... .
0*017 " or 21 per 100 .
This considerable deficit was attributable to an insufficient capacity of the receiver as compared with that of the distiller and froth-bulb .
That this was the case is shown by the figures of a second trial , in which a larger receiver was taken ( of 1332 c.c. capacity in place of 400 c.c. capacity in the previous trial ) .
In this second trial the figures came out:\#151 ; Weight of CHCI3 taken ... ... ... 0*112*gramme " recovered ... ... 0*109 " Deficit ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*003 " or 3 per 100 .
The similar experiment , with blood in place of water , gave a very different result , the deficit of evacuation being much greater , and clearly signifying that the chloroform is not merely in solution , but held in combination .
In a carefully conducted trial made with 50 c.c. of whipped bullock 's blood , to which 0*108 gramme of CHCI3 had been added , the weight recovered was only 0*014 gramme ; i.e. , the deficit was 0*092 gramme , or 85 per cent. It is evident , therefrom , that the absorption of chloroform by blood does not follow Henry 's law .
1904 .
] Relation of Chloroform to Blood .
This conclusion is in agreement with that arrived at by previous observers , Hermann , Schmiedeberg and others , to the effect that chloroform combines with the lecithin of blood .
It is also in harmony with the modern theory of anaesthesia as presented by recent writers YH .
Mayer , Overton , H. Meyer)* to the effect that the action of anaesthetics upon the several tissues and fluids of the body depends upon a " coefficient of partage , in which the affinity between anaesthetic and fatty matter is the principally effective factor .
" From the foregoing observations ( which should properly have been published by the Special Chloroform Committee in July of last year ) it is clear that the conclusions are substantially identical with that arrived .at by Moore and Roaf , viz. , that the absorption of chloroform vapour is greater by blood than by saline , and that blood acts as chloroform carrier to the tissues just as it acts as oxygen carrier .
It is a minor point of difference between the two independently presented conclusions , that whereas Moore and Roaf find no proof of any special combination between chloroform and " lipoids " as previously urged by \#166 ; German observers , we have in the report of our experiments admitted that the combination which certainly takes place between chloroform .and protoplasm may possibly be accounted for on the lipoid theory .
But the question whether chloroform can combine with all protoplasm indifferently , or with its fatty constituents ( lecithin , cholesterin ) more particularly is a subsidiary issue , in respect of which neither the .observations of Moore and Roaf , nor our own , contain any decisive .evidence .
On the one hand we are in presence of the fact that all protoplasm is subject to the influence of chloroform , on the other with the fact that all protoplasm is associated with fatty constituents of which lecithin is the most universal representative .
Lecithin is widely \#166 ; distributed in vegetable as well as in animal protoplasm ; it is present in blood-serum , which , as shown by Moore and Roaf , has a solvent power towards chloroform not far short of that possessed by blood .
* Schmiedeberg , 1 Grundriss der Fliarmakologie * ; Overton , * Pfliiger 's Archiv * ; H. Meyer , ' Arch. f. exp .
Path .
u. Pharm. , vol. 42 , p. 109 , 1899 ; libber , ' Physikal-ische Cliemie ' ; Gottlieb , 'Ergebnisse der Physiologic , ' " Theory de Narkose , " vol. 2 , p. 666 , 1902 .

