]\gt ; On a New Reflecting Gatvanometer , February 14 , 1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
ffhe Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On a New Reflecting Galvanometer of Great Sensibility , and on New Forms of Astatic Galvanometers By THOMAS GRAY , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. , and ANDREW GRAY , M.A. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Prof. Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , F.R.S. Received Februa , 1884 .
The object of this paper is , first , to describe a galvanometer in mhich a which is , we believe , novel in its application to this 3 ' articular purpose , has been employed to give am instrument of very great sensibility ; and , second , to describe some forms of astatic gal ' Ivanometers which are , we think , improvements on astatic combinaitions as ordinarily made and arranged for use .
Fig. 1 shows in elevation and horizontal section the coils and arrangement of needles adopted in an instrument of very great sensibility which we designed in the summer of 1882 , and which with assistance from the Government Research Fund , we have had constructed for use in our experiments on the Hilectric Resistance of Glass and Allied Substances .
It consists of two pairs of coils , with hollow cores , arranged so that the axes of each pair are parallel , and in a vertical plane .
Each pair is carried by a vertical brass 4 plate , and the two plates are inclined to one another at an angle of .
labout 10 ; and thus the vertical planes containing the axes of the : coils are inclined to one another at an angle of about horseshoe magnets , , made of steel wire of about 1 millim. in ' diameter , are connected together by a very light frame of aluminium , and are at such a distance apart as to hang , when the needle system is in equilibrium , with no current in the coils , freely within and nearly along the axes of the cores of the coils .
The horseshoes are not plane , but are bent round so that they form approximately portions of one vertical cylinder of which the suspension-thread is the axis , and to which the axes of the coils form horizontal tangents near their middle points at the approximate positions of the poles of the .
needles .
This form was given to the needles to lessen the.chance of VOL. XXXYI .
X On a New Reflecting Gatvanometer ; .
289 extremities coming into contact with the sides of the cores , the case of large deflections ; and it was intended to curve the of the coils similarly , to allow of the use of , as short as nut , , working between two fixed projecting pieces raises or lowers bined resistance of 30,220 ohms made up of 5,892 yards of copperwire of No. 50 B.W.G. , laid on in ) turns in all , approximately I$equaUy divided among the four coils .
The distributing plate , described below , admits of ready joining of the coils in such way as lto diminish the sensibility or resistance of the instrument .
When a rrent is sent through the instrument , the poles of one horseshoe are pulled farther into the corresponding coils , and the poles of the other horseshoe are pushed out of the coils .
A couple tending to turn the as nearly as may be round the axis of suspension is thus applied ; and a mirror attached to the upright piece of aluminium , reflects a beam of light to a scale in the usual manner , to give , means of measuring the deflection .
to one rement of the instrument , the magnet , carried in a horizontal position by the brass rod above the needles , is used to give a return coupIe , and to control the zero conveniently can be turned in azimuth by means of the tangent-screw .
The instrument is fitted with three terminals , so that it can be used as described below as a differential galvanometer .
These terminals and the connecting-wires are carefully insnlated by vulcanite .
As thus arranged we can easily give this instrument a sensibility so great as to give a deflection of one division ( -millim .
) on a scale at a distance of rather more than a metre , with one Daniell 's cell and a total resistance of ohms in direct circuit ; a degree of sensibility which , we think , could not be reached with the most sensitive astatic instruments as ordinarily constructed .
With special adjnstments of the needles , we can obtain still greater sensibility , but the period of oscillation of the needles becomes then so great as to be troublesome when results have to be rapidly obtained .
The instrument , however , has a very high sensibility for most purposes to which it can be applied , with at the same time a period of free vibration which is not inconveniently long .
We have found it very convenient in our experiments on the resistance of glass at different temperatures , in the course of which , though not arranged for very high sensibility , it has been used with a battery instrument , the four coils are arranged symmetrically in one and a horizontal curved ( slightly or shaped ) bar or frame aluminium used to carry the vertical horseshoes .
This frame pann through from one side to the other of the plate carrying the coils , 10 that one horseshoe enters its pair of coils from one side , and the horseshoe its pair of coils from the other side .
The eoils are joinod so that when a current is sent through the instrument both are dragged further into their coils , or pushed out at the same time .
The needle system is thus turned round the suspension fibre , the deflection is measured by means of a mirror and scale as before .
This form of the instrument has the advantage of being mom compact and more easily constructed , and of admitting of readiel adjustment of the magnetfi relatively to the hollow cores of bobbins .
The cores are made somewhat " " trumpet-shaped\ldquo ; where the needles enter .
Of course as the instrument which is being made is to be used for ballistic experiments , the cores have not been formed of metal tubes as.in the instrument already described .
The chief advantage of the arrangement of coils and described above is that a great portion of the wire of the coils is placed very near to the poles of the needles , and in a very favoul .
position for exerting the electro-niagnetic action required .
The instrument , particularly the form shown in fig. 2 , is very easily made , and does not cost more than an instrument of the ordinary kind .
Of course a single horseshoe , or or shaped bar , might be placed horizontally , and acted on by a pair of coils , and the principle thua applied to a single needle non-astatic instrument .
In astatic instru , however , of this form it is decidedly preferable , as shown below , to use vertical needles .
It is to be observed that if the line joining the poles or centres of gravity of netic polarity in each horseshoe be vextical , the system is perfectly astatic for a uniform field , for each vertical horseshoe in itself perfectly astatic .
The pair of hOrseshoe needles can thus be adjusted to have as nearly as may be perfect astaticism in a uniform field , and thus made to preserve a nearly constant zero when directive force , a result which it is exceedingly difficult to obtain in the ordinary arrangement of horizontal needles , and which certainly rarely exists when a horizontal magnet or magnets placed above or in an unsymmetrical position relatively to the needles is employed to On a Refleet Galvanometer , the position of the magnet .
According to this latter arrangement , if we suppose the needles to be parallel or nearly so , and I to be the magnetic field intensity at the upper needle , I ' that at the needle in the same direction , the magnetic moment of the upper needle , that of the lower needle , the current flowing , th deflection produced , and a constant , we have\mdash ; Slight changes in or or in both may , therefore , affect the constant of the ordinary instrument very seriously , and as a matter of fact its constant has to be continually redetermined , and instead of preserving a practically constant zero , it is very sensitive to magnetio lces in the neighbourhood .
In the case , however , of needles adjusted to be accurately vertical these disadvantages do not exist .
The needles cannot be affected in the same way by directing magnets and retain their astaticism for uniform field , I , I ' being the horizontal field intensities at the upper and lower extremities of the needles , the current strength , the deftection of the needles , and a constant depending on the coils , we have approximately\mdash ; The sensibility of the instrument can , therefore , be increased to any desired extent by placing the magnet at a greater distance from the needles ( or by counteracting its action by a smaller magnet placed nearer to the needles ) so as to make sufficiently small .
Further , variations of the strength of the horseshoe needles produce no effect unless they consist of changes of magnetic distribution , which may produce a deviation from perfect astaticism .
When the instrument is properly adjusted and the needles are as possible uniformly magnetized , but little disturbance of this kind can be produced by the magnetizing action of the coils , since both poles of each have their magnetism augmented or both diminished at the same time in the arrangement of fig. 2 , or both poles of one are magnetized more intensely in some degree , and both.poles of the other weakened in the arrangement of fig. 1 .
Another possible arrangement of such a system of needles is with like poles turned in similar directions .
The system still be per ectly astatic if properly adjusted ; and to give a return couple towards a zero position a magnet may be used , placed , for example , horizontally in the vertical plans at right angles to the front of the instrument , in a line passing the suspension thread .
If this On a New Reflect Galvanometer , gnet be placed nearer to say the lower ends than the upper ends pf the needles , and the polarity of the end turned towards the needles of the same name as that of the nearer ends of the needles , they have a position of stable equilibrium when no current is flowing , with a horizontal line joining a pole of each needle a , t right angles to 1the direction of the magnet .
The accurate law of variation of deflection with current is , however , in this case more complicated , amd the instrument in some cases might have to be graduated by experiments with known currents of different amounts .
Amy change also of the magnetic distribution of the controlling magnet would affect the indications of the instrument .
We propose in some cases to hang the needle system in a uniform field , and to use a small needle rigidly connected with it , but placed so as not to be psrceptibly affected by the coils , to give directive force to the magnetic system .
This arrangement , of course , would not be astatic , but would give great sensibility on aecount of the leverage of the horseshoe needles as arranged .
Thus if denote the magnetic moment of the small needle , the horizontal component of the earth 's magnetic force , a constant depending on the coils , the strength of pole of each of the horseshoes ( supposed of equal strength ) , and the distance of these poles from the suspension thread , we have , since the deflection is small , for the turning couple exerted by the coils , and for the return couple , and therefore\mdash ; Of course t'nis arrangement is applicable whether like or unlike poles are turned in similar directions .
It has the disadvantage that any change of or or of both would affect the constant of the instrument .
* The sensibility of any of these arrangements might also be increased by bringing out a very light arm , say from the middle of the cross bar connecting the horseshoes , or from any other convenient point , and hanging the mirror by means of a bifilar , one thread of which *Note added lIfarch 20 , 1884.\mdash ; We propose to mount this small needle in such that it can be turned round a horizontal axis at right angles to its length , and also round a vertical axis , so that by means of ffiis needle alone both the sensibility and the zero of the instrument can be adjusted .
When the galvanometer is not intended for ballistic experiments , the frame on which the small needle is mounted may ( onveniently be immersed in a liquid and made to act as a vane for bringing the needle system rest .
It is to be observed that , in consequence of the horseshoe needles placed in these instruments at a considerable distance from the axis of suspension , a very mall value of 1-1 ' is sufficient to give the needle system such a directive force ae to prevent great error due to the rigidity or the the suspending fibre .
greatly multiplied .
This device would , no doubt , render a degree of skill and delicacy of manipulation necessary in operab .
or experimenter , but we think it or some similar plan might in somo cases be adopted , and the construction of these instruments its application to them very easy .
Fig. 3 shows a form of distributing plate which we have devised for use with these instruments , or any other in which coils are joined sometimes in multiple arc and sometimes in series , or partly in both ways .
It consists of a set of ( for those instruments described in this paper , which have four coils ) eight brass pieces arranged as shown round a central piece and within an outer rng all carried by the vulcanite base plate of the instrument .
Eac of these brass pieces , \amp ; c. , can be connected with or , or with either of the two adjacent pieces by means of plugs .
The ring divided as shown on each side of the piece , and each of these divisions can be bridged across by of a plug when necessary ; , and are each provided with a screw terminal , which it is useful to have for some applications of the plate .
The connex ons are as follows :Suppose the coils on one side to be distinguished by the letters , and those on the other side by , and a current to be flowing through all the coils so as to produce a conspiring action each .
Now the terminal of the coil by which the curren On a New Reflecting Galvanometer , .
295 nters , and that by which it leaves , the terminal by which the , nrrent enters , and that by which it leaves , and so on .
Then the piece and are in connexion , similarly and , and so on for ill the pieces and terminals .
The central piece is connected to the biddle terminal of the instrument , the ring to one of the other , and the piece to the remaining terminal .
' The moveable or plug-connexions for joining the coils in series , or in any other desired way , are now evident .
For series , is connected plug to to to to , and to .
The current thus enters by the middle terminal , passes round all the coils in the proper ection and emerges by the terminal connected with , and vice the reverse deflection .
When the instrument is thus joined , the piece is generally connected by a plug with , so that the two side .
terminals of the galvanometer form one common electrode of the linstrument .
A spare terminal-screw is thus available for one electrode a shunt.box , or for any other purpose .
If it is desired to join the pair of coils on one side in multip ] arc , and in the same way and on the other side , and to connect these two pairs in series and are connected together and to by plugs , then :together , and finally and together and to or To join all the coils in multiple arc are joined to by plugs , and similarly to or If it is to use the instrument as a differential galvanometer may be joined to to , and to : again joined to ( the divisions between and being unplugged ) , to , and to current then may be supposed to pass from one side terminal through the coils , tending to turn the needle system in one direction , and at the same time a current from the other side terminal of the instrument through the coils , tending to turn the needle system in the direction , the two currents meeting in the middle terminal .
This distributing plate can be joined so as to effect any other desired arrangement ; and the same general plan of plate is applicable to any galvanometer with multiple coils , or with coils wound in sections .
Lastly , we desire to propose one or two modifications of the instruments described above .
Instead of a set of four coils with hollow cores and horseshoe needles as described , eight coils might be used\mdash ; one set of four arranged in rectangular order in a vertical plane facing a second set of four similar coils in a parallel plane at a small distance from the first .
Two straight needles of thin steel wire connected together as rigidly as possible by very light bars of aluminium , are so chosen as to length and so arranged that they hang from a single silk fibre with their lengths vertical and a magnetic pole as nearly as may be in the line joining the centres of each mutually opposite pair of coils .
A magnet giving a differential field at the We think that for cable-testing instruments of high resistance , for ballistic instruments , an instrument of this form , or of the follow .
ing still simpler form , might be found advantageous .
Astatic galvanometers of Sir William Thomson 's pattern usually made with two coils , one above the other , split into four by narrow vertical space in which the needle system is suspended , and which admits of the ready removal of the needles for We propose to hang in this space , in a plane nearly parallel ( when no Scurrent iunwire skept wheir 1engths aerti 1istance apart ( turned in similar directions old plainly experience a similar electro .
magnetic action to that exerted by the coils on the needles in the ordinary so-called astatic combination .
But two straight } needles would plainly be perfectly astatic in a uniform magnetic field and this astaticism for uniform field would not be liable to disturbance from any arrangement of magnets applied to give directive force to the system , as for exa1nple one or more magnets directing the system by .
means of a more powerful action at one end of the needle system than at the other as shown in Figs. 1 and 2 , or magnets arranged symmetri cally with respect to both ends of the needles .
An instrument with * such a system of needles ought therefore to be subject to but slight , if any , disturbance in ordinary circumstances of sensibility when mass61 } of steel or iron are being moved about at some little distance , and would we think be found useful in such cases , as for example in cable testing rooms .
We may , perhaps , be allowed to state in conclusion that with the instrument described above and shown in Fig. 1 , we have been able to measure the resistance at temperatures of from to C. of small globular flasks ( about 3 inches in diameter ) of good flint glass of considerable thickness .
Some of these flasks have been analysed under the superintendence of Mr. James J. Dobbie , D.Sc .
, Assistant to the Professor of Chemistry in the University of Glasgow .
Dr. Dobbie has joined us in our experiments on the Resistance and Speaeific Inductive Capacity of Glass and Allied Substances ; and have in preparation a joint paper embodying the resuIts of our preliminary experiments , which we hope soon to present to the Royal Society .

