The reading of a paper , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Electricity , " Thirteenth Series , by Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
The author , in this paper , pursues the inquiry into the general differences observable in the luminous phenomena of the electric discharge , according as they proceed from bodies in the positive or the negative states , with a view to discover the cause of those differences .
For the convenience of description he employs the term inductric , to designate those bodies from which the induction originates , and inducteous to denote those whose electric state is dis ?
turbed by this inductive action .
He finds that an electric spark , passing from a small ball , rendered positively inducteous , to another ball of larger diameter , is considerably longer than when the same ball is rendered positively inductric ; and that a similar difference , , though to a less extent , is observable , when the smaller ball is ren ?
dered negative .
The smaller ball , rendered positive , gives also a much longer spark than when it is rendered negative ; in which latter case , however , it affords , at equal distances , a luminous brush of greater size , and gives it much more readily than when positive .
In order to ascertain the relative degrees of charge which the balls acquire before the occurrence of the discharge , the author employed an apparatus attached to the insulated conductor of the electrical machine , and also to the conductor connected with the discharging train , and consequently uninsulated , consisting , on each side , of a rod branching out in the form of a fork , and terminating , at one of its extremities in a large ball , and at the other in a small one ; the position of the forks being capable of adjustment , so that the large ball of each rod might be brought exactly opposite to the small one of the other : and the distances between each pair admitted of being regulated at pleasure , until the discharges through each interval were rendered apparently equal to one another .
From numerous experiments made with this instrument , the author concludes that when two conducting surfaces of small but equal size , are placed in air , and electrified , the one positively and the other negatively , a discharge takes place at a lower tension from the latter than from the former ; but that , when a discharge does occur , a greater quantity of electricity passes at each discharge from the positive , than from the negative surface .
Experiments of a similar nature were made in gases of different kinds , by enclosing them in an apparatus constructed on the same plan as the former one , but capable of acting in a receiver , from which the air could be exhausted , and the particular gas , whose powers in modifying the electric discharges were to be ascertained , could be introduced in its place .
The results of various trials are given in a table , from which it appears that different gases restrain the discharge in very different degrees .
The discharge from the small ball , through nitrogen and hydrogen gases , most readily takes place when the charge is positive ; and through oxygen , carbonic acid , and coal gas , when it is negative .
The author next directs his attention to the peculiar luminous phenomena attending the disruptive electrical discharge , which he terms a glow , and which appears to depend on a quick , and almost instantaneous charge given to the air in the immediate vicinity , and in contact with the charged conductor ; and he enters into a detailed account of the circumstances by which it is influenced , and its production favoured ; such as diminution of the charging surface , increase in the power of the machine , rarefaction of the surrounding air , and the particular species of electricity concerned .
The relations which the glow , the brush , and the spark bear to one another , as well as the steps of transition between each are minutely investigated ; and the conclusion is deduced that the glow is in its nature exactly the same as the luminous part of a brush or ramification , namely , a charge of air ; the only difference being that the glow has a continuous appearance from the constant renewal of the same action in the same place , whereas the ramification is occasioned by a momentary and independent action of the same kind , The disruptive discharge may take place at degrees of tension so low as not to give rise to any luminous appearance ; so that a clark space may intervene in the line of actual discharge , as is frequently observable between the brush on one side , and the glow on the other .
Thus it is inferred that electric light is merely a consequence of the quantity of electricity which , after a discharge has com ?
menced , flows and converges towards the spot where it finds the readiest passage : and these conclusions are further confirmed by the phenomena which take place in .
other gases , besides atmospheric air , and which are specifically detailed by the author .
The last kind of discharge which is here considered is the convective or carrying discharge , namely , that effected by the transla ?
tion of charged particles from one place to another .
The phenomena attending this mode of transference are examined under various aspects as they occur in air , in liquids of various kinds , in flame , and as they are exhibited in the case of particles of dust , which perform the office of carriers of the electricity ; and also in that of solids terminated by liquids .
Thus all these apparcntly isolated phenomena comprised under the heads of the electric currents which characterize electrolyzation , of transference through dielectrics by disruptive discharges of various kinds , or by the actual motion of charged particles , and of conduction through conductors of various degrees of power , are assimilated to one another by their being shown to be essentially the result of actions of contiguous particles of matter assuming particular states of polarization .
The author lastly considers electric currents , not only in their effects on the bodies they traverse , but also in their collateral influences as producing inductive and magnetic phenomena .
The analogies , which connect electrolytic discharge with that by conduction , are pointed out , as tending to show that they are essentially the same in kind , and that when producing different kinds of motion in the particles of matter , their mode of operation may be regarded as identical .
An attempt is made to connect with these views the lateral or transverse actions of currents , which are most distinctly manifested in their magnetic effects ; these effects being produced equally by the disruptive , the conductive , and the electro ?
lytic discharges , and probably depending on the transverse condition of the lines of ordinary induction .
This transverse power has the character of polarity impressed upon it , and , in its simplest form , appears as attractive or repulsive , according as the currents themselves are in the same , or in opposite directions .
In the current and in the magnet it assumes the condition of tangential force ; and in magnets and their particles it produces poles .
The author announces that he intends shortly to develop , in another series of these researches , some further views which he entertains concerning the nature of electric forces and electric excitation in connexion with the theory he has here advanced .

