150 Mr. W. N. Hartley on the [ Apr. 12 , IV .
u On the Constant Vibration of Minute Bubbles .
" By Walter Noel Hartley , F.R.S.E. , King 's College , London .
Commuiiicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received March 3 1877 .
Those who have given great attention to the study of fluid-cavities in minerals have occasionally met with vibrating particles which are apparently bubbles .
I first became acquainted with these at the close of last year , 1875 , when Mr. P. J. Butler was kind enough to show me a ruby containing a cavity partially filled with liquid carbonic acid , the bubble in which , when of small size , was in constant motion .
I was much struck with this , and immediately connected it with the motions caused by heat which have just been described , but which at that time had not been so fully studied .
During this last summer I have had the opportunity of examining a specimen of felstone from Snowdon , for the loan of which and for a section of the same stone I am much indebted to Mr. J. 0 .
Young , F.G-.S .
This contained portions of quartz with many cavities .
The majority of these were water-cavities , but others appeared to be empty ; and in one of them Mr. Young had noticed a moving particle , supposed to be a bubble , which made its appearance only in a cold atmosphere .
By dropping a little ether on the object , the evaporation cooled it sufficiently to condense a liquid in the cavity , and the moving particle was easily seen with a magnifying-power of 400 diameters .
By immersion in iced water , the temperature of which was 3'-5 0 .
, the cavity has the appearance of being two thirds filled with a liquid , the gas-bubble of course occupying the remaining space and having a sort of trembling motion .
The bubble decreased in size , and the motion became more and more " rapid as the size became smaller , until it rushed up and down and across the space in which it was confined .
The cavity and the bubble are represented in fig. 7 ( p. 139 ) by A , and the course of the bubble during rapid motion by C. The thought immediately occurred that this wTas not a gas-bubble , but a liquid in the spheroidal condition\#151 ; in all probability carbon dioxide in a perfectly dry condition , and perhaps mixed with some incondensable gas , so that its critical point was lowered .
A considerable number of experiments was necessary in order to arrive at a judgment as to whether the moving particle was liquid or gaseous ; for if it w^ere the former the particle would diminish " by rise of temperature through evaporation , if the latter through contraction of the bubble consequent on expansion of the surrounding liquid .
Variations in temperature caused the following changes :\#151 ; '877 .
] Constant Vibration of Minute Bubbles .
The particle was moving rapidly at ... ... ... ... ... .13*5 0 .
Well seen at . .
, ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
15*5 C. Moving particle very small , motion very rapid at 17-5 0 .
[ 20-5 C. Particle not visible ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... j 19*5 C. 118-7 0 .
Just visible ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
17*7 0 .
Invisible ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 18*0 0 .
At \#151 ; 14 ' C. the moving particle appeared to occupy nearly half the savity ; its motion was very slight ; had it not been previously seen in rapid motion , it would have been impossible to say with certainty that it moved at all .
At \#151 ; 15 ' C. it was as nearly as possible motionless .
It , vas now necessary to watch the effect of gravitation upon the particle ; for if it be gaseous it will have a tendency towards the upper part of the ?
avity when the liquid condenses , while if it be liquid it will more frequently be observed towards the lower end .
In eight out of ten experiments in which the liquid was condensed from the gaseous state , the particle took up a position at the top of the cavity .
The microscope was placed at an angle of 45 ' , and the stage was rotated partially before each experiment in order to avoid examining the specimen in one position only .
As , therefore , the spherule is not the fluid with greatest density , it is most probably a gas-bubble , and the contents of the cavity are in such a state of compression that the liquid expands so as to entirely fill the cavity at 18 ' 0 .
The liquid is doubtless carbon dioxide .
Several other cavities of the same kind were noted .
This shows that in examining rock-sections it is necessary to cool as well as warm the specimens .
The following test gave indisputable evidence that the moving particle was the bubble .
While in rapid motion the bubble was strongly attracted to the side of the cavity when a body of a slightly higher temperature was made to approach it .
That the liquid which exhibits such motion need not be a condensed gas is shown by the following facts .
A piece of quartz from the summit of Snowdon abounded in water-cavities of different sizes .
Some of these contained a bubble in constant vibratory motion at 18 ' C. The size of the cavities was about -g^1^ x -nnhrcr an inch , and the size of the bubbles 'srujnr of an inch in diameter ( see fig. 7 , A and B ) .
The movements were chiefly vibrations up and down , and gentle alterations in position from right to left .
A platinum spatula was made red-hot and brought near to the object-glass ; the motion instantly ceased , and the bubble was seen clinging to the side nearest the heated spatula .
On changing the position of the spatula the bubble did not immediately move ; it seemed to require some time for a rise of temperature to overbalance that which the stone had previously acquired .
Brora right to left and from top to bottom the bubble was attracted and made to come to rest .
152 Mr. Gustav Bischof on Putrescent [ Apr. 19 When the heating was not excessive the bubbles did not become motionless , but their vibrations had a tendency to one side of the cavity , as ir fig. 7 , D and E. The larger bubbles in other cavities were likewise attracted .
The vibrating bubbles were generally seen at or near the top of the cavities .
Cooled with ether-spray the bubbles ceased vibrating .
The microscope-stage was inclined at an angle of 45 ' throughout the experiments .
About fifty different cavities , none of them exceeding the dimensions already given , all behaved in the same way .
There were several moving bubbles in cavities a little larger than those already noted ; for instance one measured X of an inch .
The motion never extended across the cavity , but was confined to a sort of shuffling up and down , which shifted the bubble from one side to the other ( see fig. 7,1 ) and E ) .
On presenting a warm wire to the cavity the bubble was instantly attracted , and it remained clinging for some time to the side of the cavity .
For an explanation of the cause of vibration I must refer to the fact that I have proved , that gas-bubbles in water as well as in carbonic acid may be attracted by a source of heat giving an extremely slight rise of temperature .
It is impossible to imagine a body which is not gaining or losing , or , at the same time , both gaining and losing heat ; it is therefore impossible to imagine it entirely throughout at a uniform temperature .
It is evident , then , that an easily movable particle which can be set in motion by exceedingly slight rises of temperature will make the transference of heat from one point to another plainly visible .
I have shown that the minute bubbles in fluid-cavities are such particles ; and I believe that the vibratory motions which I have described afford an ocular demonstration of the continual passage of heat through solid substances .
j April 19 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
' .
' _ The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Putrescent Organic Matter in Potable Water/ ' ' By Gustav Bischof .
Communicated by E. Frankland , F.R.S. Received March 17 , 1877 .
It is fortunate that smell and taste are generally extremely sen- \ sitive indicators of putrefaction in articles of food .
This does not , ; however , apply to drinking-water , which may be largely polluted by putrescent organic impurities without causing any suspicion to our

