An Account of two Books .
I. TRACTATUS DUO , prior de RESPIRATIONE ; alter de RACHITIDE , A. JOH .
MAYOW , &amp;c. Oxon.1668 .
in 8~ .
THe Author in the former of these Tracts , having first given an account , how the Air by its Elastick force is inspired , and upon the dilatation of the Chest , caused by the intercostal Muscles , drawn upwards , rushes into the Lungs , which are thereby expanded , being nothing else but a Body made up of very thin little Membranes , in the form of innumerable small bladders ; delivers his thoughts of the Use of Respiration , waving those opinions , that would have Respiration serve either to cool the heart , or to make the Blood pass through the Lungs out of the right ventricle of the heart into the left , or to reduce the thicker venal blood into thinner and finer parts ; and affirming , That there is something in the Air , absolutely necessary to life , which is conveyed into the Blood ; which , whatever it be , being exhausted , the rest of the Air is made useless , and no more fit for Respiration .
Where yet he doth not exclude this Use , That with the expelled Air , the vapors also , steaming out of the Blood , are thrown out together .
And inquiring , what that may be in the Air , so necessary to life , he conjectures , that'tis the more subtle and nitrous particles , the Air abounds with , that are through the Lungs communicated to the Blood : And this Aereal Niter he makes so necessary to all life , that even the Plants themselves do not grow in that Earth , that is deprived thereof , which yet , being exposed to the Air , and afresh impregnated by that fertilizing salt , becomes fit again to nourish those Plants .
And considering futher , what part this Nitrous Air acts , and what operation it performs in the Animal Life , he is of opinion , that this Niter , mixed with the Sulphureous parts of the Blood , causes a due fermentation , which he will have raised , not only in the Heart alone , but immediately in the Pulmonary vessels , and afterwards in the Arteries no less than in the heart .
Examining also the reason , why Death so suddenly ensues upon Respiration suppressed , the Blood being then not yet unfit for motion , he inquires yet after another Use of Respiration , which makes it so very necessary to Life .
And considering with himself , that the Life of Animals consists in the Distribution of the Animal Spirits , for the supply of which is required the Pulsation of the heart , and the Afflux of the Blood to the Brain , it seems to him , that Respiration is highly necessary to the motion of the heart , forasmuch as the heart is one of the Muscles , the motion of every one of which absolutely requires this Aereal Niter , so that without the same , even the beating of the Heart cannot be performed .
But here he declares , that he sees not , how that Explosion , by which the Muscles are so suddenly inflated and contracted , should proceed from the Arterious Blood and the Nervous juice .
He esteems rather , that the nitrous particles proceeding from the inspired Air , do by the Afflux of the Arterious blood everywhere flow between the fibres of the Muscles , and lodge therein , and that the animal spirits , made up of a very volatile salt , and not much differing from the distilled spirit of blood , highly rectifi 'd , do , as often as they are sent from the Nerves for motion , meet with the former nitrous and differing particles ; by which mixture of a kind of Volatile Spirit of blood , and a Salin liquor , united together , is caused that sudden explosion , and consequently the inflation and contraction of the Muscles .
To which Ebullition , he saith , may perhaps something also conduce the Blood , forasmuch as its sulphureous particles , conjoined with the Niter inspired , may render that juice Nitro-sulphureous , and yet more explosive .
And thus he thinks the motion made in the heart , ( a musculous substance ) to be done no otherwise , than that in other Muscles .
Whence he concludes , that upon the suppressing of Respiration , when that darting Niter , , so requisite to all motion , is deficient , the Cardiaque Nerves convey their influx in vain , so that the pulsation of the heart ceasing , and consequently the afflux of the Blood to the Brain , Death must needs follow ; but yet that the Animal may live a while without Respiration , forasmuch as the Blood contained in the vessels of the Lungs , and impregnated with Air enough , may suffice to maintain for some few moments the motion of the heart .
And thus much of the first Tract , the other treating of the Rick ts , examits in the first place , wherein Nutrition consists , and finds , That the Nervous Juice performs not alone the whole office of that operation , in regard that besides it , the Blood diffused through the Arteries , hath no small share in that work , seeing that the nervous liquor mixed with the blood , causes a certain effervescence , whereby the matter , fit for nutrition , is precipitated , and that for want of this nervous liquor , the Blood in this distemper of the Rickets , though it be laudable enough , yet being destitute of its one ferment , is not able to excite Heat in the parts , nor to execute the office of Nutrition .
So that the Rickets , in the opinion of this Author , are a disease , caused by an unequal distribution of the Nervous juice , from whose either defect or superabundance , some parts defrauded of nourishment , are emaciated , others , being surcharged , grow into a disproportionate bigness .
Proceeding to assign the Cause of this inequality in the distribution of the Aliment , he finds it not in the influx of the Brain , but in th obstruction of the spinal Marrow , whence it happens , that , that high way of the passage of the spirits being dammed up , the parts , to be sustained and cherished by that nutritious Juice , must needs languish , and fall into an Atrophy and the highest Consumption .
Having assigned this cause , he endeavours from thence to deduce all the Appearances and Symptoms peculiar to this Disease , and suggests that upon that ground it ought to be the main intention of the Physician , to remove such Obstructions , and to strengthen the Nerves : subjoyning a general method for curing this Infirmity , and specifying the principal remedies , both Internal and External , to be used therein ; among which he chiesly recommends the spirits of Sal Armoniack , Harts-horne , Blood , Urine , Soot , as such , that by the high volatility and subtleness of their parts are able to dislodge those Obstructions , which cause this Disease .
II .
A DISCOURSE concerning PHYSIC , and the many ALUSES thereof by the APOTHECARIES , London , A.1668 .
in 8~ .
IN this Discourse are chiefly performed these Two things .
First , The Interest of the Patient , in reference to Physic and Physicians , is soberly debated .
And here , the Patients being they , who are most highly injured by the unwarrantable practices of those , that are in this Tract accused , the Author represents , that , although many intelligent persons among the People are sufficiently sensible of the Abuses , here manifested , and that it is of absolute necessity , some reformation be made ; yet all are not thus persuaded , since we may daily observe , that many , who are less discerning , being deceived by an Imaginary good , covet unawares their own ruin ; and unless they be given to understand , which is the Evil and which the Good , by persons in whom they have reason to conside , they must necessarily run much hazard .
The Author therefore hath here endeavoured to undeceive them , discovering both the many inconveniences , they are liable to , and the many things , where of most A pothecaries are highly guilty , as Carelessness , Unskilfulness , Unfaithfullness on the one hand , and Intrusion into the Physicians Employment ( the Practise of Physic ) on the other : on all which accounts , he thinks , he hath demonstrated they are exceedingly injurious to the Public .
In order to the Prevention of such intolerable Abuses of the People he makes this Proposal , That Physicians prepare and dispense their own Medicins , and shows at large , that the Advantages of such a Constitution will be many and great : As , that it will much abate the Expense of Physic ; and the Medicins themselves will be more safe and effectual , than now they are , Interest obliging Physicians to have their Physic as good , as they can contrive or prepare ; and that such a state of Physic of all other cannot but be most desirable , wherein No Man having the Interest , can have the Power , nor any having the Power , can have the Interest to prepare Medicins unfaithfully ; wherein bad men shall be made good , and the good never be tempted to become dishonest : So that , if the Sick have regard either to profit or safety , they will address themselves to those Persons , who supply them with the best of Remedies , and at cheapest rates .
Secondly , As to Physicians , the Author tells them , that they must necessarily put their Affairs into some such method , as is here commended , if they have any concern for their Patients , or intend to improve Pharmacy it self Here he considers , that if Physicians depend only upon what they read in Books , they shall never promote this Art beyond its present limits ; and that , if Physicians in former times had not been knowing in Simples , examined their Virtues and Tempers , inquired into their effects , and mixed them with their own hands , there had been no such Science as Physic ; and therefore those things , which gave a being to this noble Faculty , ought to help to make it complete ; towards which as nothing can contribute more than the Improvement of Pharmacy ; so neither can any thing promote that more , than Physicians taking it into their management .
Besides all which , he thinks .
it most fit , that they , who exercise themselves in the Practise of Physic be satisfied , their Medicins are good ; whereby their mind will be free and without any clog : which would add more difficulties and dangers to a thing , by it self hard and dangerous enough .
These and other Considerations , insisted on in this Discourse , will , in the Author 's persuasion , induce all Physicians , who have respect to the Good of their Patients , Honour of their Profession , or own Reputation , to put Pharmacy into other hands , and better methods ( for which he intimates , that a strong resolution is already taken ) than those , wherein now it is ; whereby they , who dishonour it ( meaning the Apothecaries ) will either be reduced to a sense and performance of their Duty , or sufficiently punished .
Besides all this , there are interspersed in this Discourse not a few particulars , both Philosophical and Physical ; such as concern the Improvement of Natural Philosophy by the exercise of Chemistry in the hands of discreet and able Physicians : the Discovery and use of abundance of Generous Remedies , hitherto industriously concealed by their Possessors from the Apothecaries and Common Chymists , upon the consideration , that they would make a preposterous use of them ; such as are the Essences of Plants made by the Union of their Volatile Spirits , Essential Oils , and fixed Salts , Volatile Salt or Spirit of Tartar , Tincture of Corals , Essences of Pearls and Crabs Eyes , Valentinus 's Tincture of Antimony , his Mineral Bezoar , Helmonts Elixir Proprietatis , his Laudanum , the Volatil Spirit of Vitriol , the Anodine Sulphur of Vitriol , its Essential Oil , the Tincture of Gold , &amp;c. All which the Author assures to have seen himself , and declares himself ready to witness , that they have had extraordinary Effects .
And he omits not particularly to insinuate , how much Diet can contribute to the cure or moderation of Distempers ; and he affirms boldly , That there is scarce any Chronical Disease , that is cured by the Shop-medecines , which may not be cured with more certainty , ease and pleasure by Drinks , ( joined with a regular Diet ) as Wine , Ale , Beer , Cider , &amp;c. impregnated in the time of their Fermentation , with the Virtues of Simples , Animal , Vegetable or Mineral , or their Preparations &amp;c. In the SAVO Y , Printed by T.N. for John Martyn , Printer to the Royal Society , and are to be sold at the Bell a little without Temple-Bar , 1668 .

