XI .
" Results of the first year 's performance of the Photographically Self-recording Meteorological Instruments at the Central Observatory of the British System of Meteorological Observations .
" By Lieut.-General EDWARD SABINE , R.A. , President .
Received June 17 , 1869 .
Before the Fellows of the Society disperse for the long vacation , I am desirous to bring under their notice the results of the first year 's performance ( January 1 to December 31 , 1868 ) of the photographically selfrecording meteorological instruments established at Kew , the Central Observatory of the British Meteorological System instituted by the Board of Trade and superintended by a Committee of Fellows of the Royal Society .
The photograms , with tabulations carefully prepared from them , are transmitted monthly by Mr. Stewart , the Superintendent of the Kew Observatory , to Mr. Scott , the Director of the Meteorological Office in London , where the results are computed and embodied in Tables , of the nature of those which are now presented .
The first of these Tables shows the Diurnal Fariation , or the values of the phenomena at each of the 24 hours , on the mean of the year .
It exhibits 1st .
The Temperature .
2nd .
The Elasticity of the Aqueous Vapour .
3rd .
The Barometric Pressure .
4th .
The Pressure of the Dry Air .
5th .
The Humidity .
In meteorology and climatology much instruction may often be derived from tracing the modifying influences of diversities of situation ; and I have thought that these Tables might be made more acceptable and interesting to the Society , and the subject be advantageously illustrated , by the addition of corresponding results for two other stations , which are very nearly in the same geographical latitude as Kew , but are very differently situated in other respects , being in the interior of the European and Asiatic continent-thoroughly continental therefore , and as such contrastedwith our insular British stations .
Nertchinsk and Barnaoul , both in Siberia , are two of the stations of the great Russian system of observatories , established by our late Foreign Member , Mr. A ; T. Kupffer , and ably superintended by him for several years until his decease .
I had been assured by M. Kupffer that I might thoroughly rely on the observations made at these two stations ; and I have since acquired experimentally the fullest confirmation of this assurance in the case of Nertchinsk ( as regards the magnetical , and inferentially therefore also as regards the meteorological observations ) , by the very delicate and sufficient test adverted to in page 238 of Art .
VI .
in the Phil. Trans. for 1864 .
Barnaoul is in lat. 53ยง 20 ' , corresponding with the rough average of the latitudes of our British stations generally , and is 400 feet above the sea .
Nertchinsk differs only 10 ' from the latitude of Kew , but has otherwise a marked feature of diversity in being at an elevation of 2230 feet , whilst Kew is only 34 feet above the sea-level .
At Kew we have only as yet available the records of a single year , necessarily influenced by the natural irregularities which cause one year to differ from another .
These irregularities are lessened , in the case of the Siberian stations , by combining in the present paper the results of two years of observation .
I may now proceed to the Table of the Diurnal Variations , and to a brief notice of the most salient features presented by the comparative view of the phenomena of the three stations as shown in that Table .
In discussing the diurnal variations of the meteorological elements , it is customary to commence with the temperature , regarding it as in a great degree the governing agent in regulating the phenomena of those other elements which are the subjects of the photographical registration .
In the middle latitudes , with which alone we have at present to deal , the diurnal variation of the temperature is recognized as a single progression , having one ascending and one descending branch , the turning-points being a maximum at an early hour in the afternoon , and a minimum at a little before sunrise .
We find this to be the order of the phenomena at the three stations under review , viz. a maximum between 2 and 3 hours , and a minimum between 16 and 17 hours ( 4 and 5 A.M. ) , the range between the extremes presenting , however , very marked differences , being 10 ?
' 7(Fahr .
) at Kew , 14 ?
'0 at Barnaoul , and 17 ?
'0 at Nertchinsk .
It has been the practice for the last thirty years , at the principal European observatories , to regard the elastic force of the aqueous vapour as an important meteorological element , and to employ it in the separation of the barometric pressure into its two constituents , viz. the pressure of the dry air , and the elasticity of the aqueous vapour mingled therein- .
In conformity with this practice , we may take the vapour tension next in the order of succession .
It was remarked by Bessel , in the Astron. Nach .
for 1838 ( No. 356 ) , that " since the invention of Daniell 's hygrometer and August 's psychrometer , we possess the means of ascertaining at all times with ease and sufficient exactness the quantity of aqueous vapour contained in the * In the publications of the British Colonial Observatories ( 1840--1847 ) this method was adopted in the meteorological reductions , being one of its earliest applications .
4 [ June 17 , atmosphere .
" The most convenient mode of photographic investigation and record which presented itself , and was adopted at Kew , was by the employment of wet and dry thermometers ; the difference between the two thermometers admits of exact measurement , and supplies the element which is desired , the accuracy of the record being occasionally tested by comparison with the results obtained by Regnault 's " hygrometre a condensation"* .
The gain of even two years of observation over a single year may be here at once seen by the greater regularity of the two years ' record at the Siberian stations .
Taking these therefore in the first instance , we find that at both stations the elasticity of the vapour presents a single progression , having maxima about noon , and minima at 16 hours ( 4 A.M. ) .
The difference in the amount of vapour at the two stations is due , of course , to the greater altitude of Nertchinsk .
At Kew the progression is not quite so regular as where two years are combined ; the values at 21 , 22 , and 23 hours are high in comparison with the other hours , possibly owing to peculiarities in the weather of the particular year ; in other respects the progression is similar to that at Nertchinsk and Barnaoul , and the time of minimum is identical at the three stations , viz. at 16 hours .
The higher elasticity of the vapour at Kew , in comparison with the two Siberian stations , is , of course , due to the higher temiperature at Kewt .
In the case of the Barometer there are slight indications at each of the three stations of the existence of a double progression ; but in the middle latitudes a longer series of observation is clearly required to determine regular periods ( if such there are ) in a satisfactory manner .
One conclusion is obvious , that in the latitudes of 51 ?
and 53 ?
the striking regularity and magnitude of the double period which prevail in the tropics do not subsist .
The minimum of the dry air coincides at the three stations , as nearly as may be , with the warmest hour of the day ( 2 or 3 hours ) .
There is also , at each of the three stations , an approximate maximum at or near the coldest hour .
At Barnaoul and Nertchinsk the progression between the hours of minimum and maximum is uninterrupted ; at Kew it is obvious that a single year is not sufficient to justify conclusions in this respect .
Regarding the Humidity , the minimum , or dryest hour of the 24 , is in all cases coincident with , or closely following upon , the warmest hour ; and the hour of greatest humidity that of the lowest temperature .
Kew rlhere have been some few occasions in this , the first year at Kew , when the continuity of the trace from the wet thermometer failed , in consequence'of the freezing of the water by which its ball was wetted , or owing to other causes .
Arrangements have now been made to meet these difficulties in continuous registration .
t The Tables employed in the calculation of the values inserted in the columns of " Elastic Force of Vapour " and " Hunidity " have been the well-known Russian Tables , ' Tables Psychrom6triques et Barometriques a l'usage des Observatoires Meteorologiques de l'Empire de Russie .
' Very convenient Tables have.also been published by the Sm:ithsonian Institution , computed by Dr. Guyot .
Two of the three stations of the present paper being Russian , it was deemed advisable to employ the Russian ' Tables Psychromitriques , &amp;c. ' for the reduction of the results in the present paper .
6 [ June 17 , and Barnaoul have , on the mean , almost exactly the same degree of humidity , the greater amount of vapour at Kew being balanced , in its influence on the humidity , by the higher temperature .
Nertchinsk is both the coldest and the driest .
So far as the purposes of the Meteorological Committee can yet be considered as settled , it is their intention to combine the results of every five years of observation into a Table of Diurnal Variations , similar to that which is now presented for Kew for a single year .
A second period of five years will yield a second Table ; and two such combined will form a tenyear Table , more satisfactory than either of its two component parts , but still open to correction by incorporation with subsequent periods of equal duration .
The other six observatories of the system established by the British Government , viz. Aberdeen , Armagh , Falmouth , Glasgow , Stonyhurst , and Valencia* , have received their instruments , which had been prepared and verified at the Central Observatory ( Kew ) , where also those who were to work with them had received personal instruction in their use ; and on the completion of these and all other needful arrangements , the six observatories commenced on July 1 , 1868 , a continuous record corresponding in all respects to that at Kew .
The photograms and the tabulations prepared from them at the several observatories are transmitted monthly to Kew , where they undergo careful examination , and revision if required ; and at the expiration of a second month they are sent , with the records prepared at Kew itself , to the Meteorological Office , where , under the direction of Mr. Scott , they are formed into Tables , and used for all meteorological purposes for which they may be available .
The mode and extent in which the information thus obtained may be most suitably communicated to the public are not yet fully determined , but are receiving careful consideration .
Table II .
( which occupies the next 5 or 6 pages ) exhibits the annual variations at the three stations , analogous to the diurnal variations shown in Table I. It is obvious that such Tables cannot but assist greatly in studying the climatological phenomena in different localities ; but a discussion of them would be premature until a wider observational basis is provided .
It was the purpose of the Committee , approved by the Board of Trade , that there should have been an eighth meteorological station , viz. one in the north of Scotland .
In the first estimate sent to the Treasury by the Board of Trade , the necessary cost of such a station was included ; but on the receipt of a letter from the Treasury to the Board of Trade , June 5 , 1867 , stating that " in the estimates for the current year My Lords are aware that they have proposed a less sum than had been estilmated for , and intend that the arrangements to be made by the Committee should be curtailed accordingly , " the meteorological station in the north of Scotland was in consequence curtailed .
7

