122 Dr. J. Stenkouse on Amido-derivatives of Orcin .
[ Jan. 23 , IY " Account of a Meteor that fell on the ' Seven Stones ' Lightship " in a Letter from the Secretary to the Corporation of the Trinity House , addressed to the President .
Received January 9 , 18/ 3 .
Trinity House , London , E.C. , 9th January , 1873 .
SiE___I am directed to acquaint you that on the 13th of November last , at 2 a.m. , a meteor burst against the ' Seven Stones ' light-vessel belonging to this Corporation , and moored about 9-|- miles E. by N. of the Scffly Islands ; and that it has been reported that the watch were struck senseless for a short period , seeing nothing before the shock , but that , on recovery , balls of fire like large stars were falling in the water like splendid fireworks , and that the decks were covered with cinders , which crushed under the sailors ' feet as they walked .
It appeared , the men said , as if something was passing swiftly and met with the obstruction of the vessel and burst .
The superintendent reports that the men say there was a very decided smell of brimstone , but add that they did not mention that until he asked them .
There is reason to fear that the cinders were all washed off the decks by the rain and sea before daylight ; and it happened also unfortunately that the men did not think to observe the compasses .
The Elder Brethren have great doubts whether any more accurate account of the phenomenon than the foregoing is obtainable ; at the same time they direct me to report the matter to you , conjoined with the assurance that if any important or interesting scientific question is likely to be elucidated by further inquiry , they will have great pleasure in causing special questions to be put to the men , or in affording any member of the Royal Society facilities for investigation .
I am , Sir , Your most humble Servant , Sir G. B. Airy , K.C.B. , Sfc .
Sfc .
Robin Allen , Secretary .
January 23 , 1873 .
T. ARCHER HIRST , Ph. D. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. " Contributions to the History of the Orcins .
No. III .
Amido-derivatives of Orcin"* By John Stenhouse , LL. D. , E.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received November 7 , 1872 .
In a paper published in March 1871+ , I stated that I had made some experiments on the action of reducing agents on trinitro-orcinic acic anc * A preliminary note on this subject appeared in the ' Chemical News , vol. xxiii p. 292 , and Zeits .
Chem. vol. vii .
p. 414 .
f Proe .
Iloy .
So .
vol. xix .
p. 410 .

