276 Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of [ Jan. 26 , it were derived by interpolation from the wave-lengths of the ma^ne smm and iron lines .
The arc of a De Meritens machine taken in a crucible of magnesia gave us , when a current of steam was passed into the crucible , both the water spectrum and the metallic lines on the same plate .
The solar lines are marked in the figure in positions held by the corresponding iron lines .
These photographs were taken with prisms of Iceland Spar .
Hone of our photographs show any more refrangible rays produced by water within the limit of transparency of Iceland spar , i\e .
, below a wave-length of about 2200 .
III .
" An Attempt at af Complete Osteology of fhjpsilophodon Foxii , a British \yealden Dinosaur .
" By J. W. Hulke , F.R.S. Received { January 16 , 1882 .
j ( Abstract .
) The author , after giving a list of papers on remains of this Dinosaur , by Professor Owen , Professor Huxley , and himself , and noticing the great want of a complete osteology which might serve as a type , describes in detail the skull , including the dentition , the vertebral column , shoulder-girdle , \#163 ; |nd hip-girdle with the limbs , and compares their structure with that , of other fossil and extant Sauropsida .
He maintains the generic distinctness of from Iguanodon as typified by I. Afantelli , considering that the very different structure of their hind feet is decisive* of this .
The paper embodies the results of dissections of parts of several skeletons , and it is illustrated by figures of all the bones described^ IV .
" The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) Part Ilj\#151 ; Electrical Conductivity .
The temporary alteration of electrical conductivity which can be produced by longitudinal traction was measured for all the metal wires used in Part I , both in the hard-drawn and annealed condition , and , in addition , for carbon and nickel , by the following method : \#151 ; The wires were suspended in pairs of equal lengths in an air-chamber 4 feet in length and 4 finches inner diameter .
This vessel , which consisted of two concentric cylinders containing a layer of water 1882 .
] Stress and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces .
277 1 inch thick between them , stood upright on a stout table .
The ends of the wire to be tested , and of the other wire , which will be called the comparison-wire , were clamped into three brass blocks which rested upon a support of hard wood placed on the top of the chamber .
One of the blocks was twice the length of each of the other two , and into this was clamped one end of each of the wires ; the other ends were clamped into the other two blocks .
The blocks were provided with terminal screws , and a " Wheatstone 's bridge " was formed , having four branches consisting of the wire under examination , the comparison-wire , and two sets of resistance-coils each of about 100 ohms , but capable of variation by such small amounts as T ohm at a time .
These resistance-coils were connected by caoutchouc-covered copper wire , several feet in length but of small resistance , to two of the brass blocks , and were also united to each other by a platino-iridium wire having a resistance of T ohm , which was stretched along a scale divided into millimetres , and was traversed by a sliding-piece , which , by means of a suitable spring and catch , could be readily clamped to any part of the wire .
By means of the resistance-coils and the platino-iridium wire an alteration of less than one in a million could be measured .
As the change of resistance was in general very small , it was necessary to take every precaution to avoid sudden changes of temperature .
It was necessary also to keep the galvanometer-circuit always closed in order to avoid errors which would otherwise have arisen from thermo-electric currents .
A single Le-clanche cell was employed for the current-motor , and with this it was possible in a large majority of cases to measure with the aid of a delicate reflecting galvanometer an alteration of resistance not exceeding one in a million .
The wire to be strained was provided with a moveable pulley 2 inches in diameter , to which was attached by means of a stout wire passing through a small aperture in the table a scale-pan , and both wires were , before suspension in the air-chamber , surrounded with caoutchouc tubing , silk , or other insulating material .
The electrical resistances of all the substances which were examined , were , with the exception of nickel , increased by temporary longitudinal stress .
With nickel , however , of which metal a wire nearly chemically pure was at length with difficulty procured , * the resistance was found to diminish under longitudinal stress not carried beyond a certain point ; but after this point had been attained further stress began to increase the resistance .
The effect on nickel appears still more remarkable when we reflect that the change of dimensions produced by the stress , namely , increase of length and diminution of section , would increase the resistance .
The specific resistances of all the substances , except nickel and * Through the kindness of Messrs. Johnson , Matthev , and Co. 278 Mr. H. Tomlinson .
Influence of [ Jan. 26 , aluminium , were increased by temporary longitudinal stress .
With aluminium and nickel the specific resistances were diminished by stress not carried beyond a certain limit .
With nickel and carbon it was necessary to introduce slight modifications of the original method of determining the influence of stress on the resistance .
With carbon , though the increase of resistance produced by a given amount of stress was greater than was the case with any of the other substances except tin and lead , this was not so with respect to the specific resistance .
In the next table will be found the mean results of the different experiments made with the various substances in the annealed condition .
Name of substance .
Increase of resistance per unit produced by a stress of 1 grm. per square centim. \#151 ; signifies decrease of resistance .
Increase of resistance per unit , which would be caused by stress sufficing to double the length of the wire .
\#151 ; signifies decrease of resistance .
Increase per unit of specific resistance which would be caused by stress sufficing to double the length cf the wire .
\#151 ; signifies decrease of resistance .
Iron 2111 x 10~12 4-180 2-618 Platinum 2285 3-404 2-252 Zinc 4406 3-379 2 113 Tin 10546 2-920 1-630 Lead 17310 2-885 1 -613 Silver 4272 3-851 1 -531 Copper .
2310 2-713 1 005 Carbon 9248 2-480 0-980 Platinum-silver .
2346 2-464 0 624 Grerman-silver . .
1523 2 -018 0 -226 Aluminium ... .
1896 1-276 -0-262 Nickel* -3216 -6-994 -8-860 The numbers given in the above table are calculated on the assumption that the alteration of resistance is proportional to the stress ; this was found to be nearly , but not quite , the case .
With most metals the resistance increases in a greater proportion than the stress ; but with iron which has been very heavily loaded for some time , the ratio of the increase of resistance to the stress producing it after increasing to a maximum begins to diminish ; and altogether , we may say , that the results here obtained completely confirm those already recorded in * The numbers given opposite this .
metal are calculated from the results obtained for stresses carried up to the above-mentioned limit , and as in the case of the other substances , represent the alterations which would ensue if the changes of resistance were proportional to the stress for any amount of the latter .
1882 .
] Stress and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces .
27$ Part I , which concern the temporary alterations of length prodnced by longitudinal traction .
One of the most remarkable features discernible in the table is the-similarity of the order of the metals , as given in the last column , to that of the table of " rotational coefficients " of metals recently given by Professor Hall ; * indeed , so striking is the relationship in the case of the metals iron , zinc , aluminium , and nickel , that there would appear to be no doubt that a series of experiments made with a view of determining the effects of mechanical stress and strain on the " rotational coefficients " would be of the greatest value .
Another point to be noticed is , that the alteration of the specific resistances of the alloys brass , platinum-silver , and German-silver is much less than that of the several constituents of these alloys , and at first sight there would appear to be some relation between the alteration of resistance caused by change of temperature and that due to mechanical stress ; but it has been proved by these and other experiments that the increase of resistance caused by rise of temperature is in some cases one hundred times that attending the same amount of expansion by mechanical stress ; and , apart from the fact that with nickel and carbon the effects of change of temperature and of longitudinal stress are of an opposite nature , it is evident that the former are to be attributed to other causes than mere expansion .
The influence of permanent extension on the temporary alteration of resistance caused by longitudinal stress was examined , and the results obtained verified the statement made in Part I that " the elasticity of a wire is diminished by permanent extension not exceeding a certain limit , but beyond this limit it is increased .
" The effect of permanent extension on the alteration of resistance which can temporarily be produced in nickel by traction is very remarkable .
Compression was proved to produce on the electrical resistance of carbon a contrary effect to that caused by extension ; this statement applies to the alteration of specific resistance as well as of the total resistance .
Stress , applied in a direction transverse to that of the current , was also found to produce in several metals both temporary and permanent alterations of resistance of a nature opposite to those resulting from longitudinal traction .
The time during which the stress was allowed to act exercised with strips of tin and zinc a large influence on the amount of the temporary alteration of resistance which was produced by the stress .
In the case of the strips of tin and zinc also , the alteration of resistance seemed to be very much greater than when longitudinal stress was applied to these same metals in the form of wires .
* " Nature , " November 10 , 1881 .
Abstract of a note read by Pi'ofessor E. H. Hall at the meeting of the British Association at York .
Mr. H. Tomlinson .
Influence of [ Jan. 26 , Stress applied equally in all directions by means of an hydraulic press was proved to diminish the resistance of copper and iron ; and the experiments showed that the lowering of the temperature of the freezing point of water can be accurately and readily measured by observations of the change of electrical resistance of a wire .
These .experiments also furnished still further proof that the change of resistance of a metal wire caused by rise of temperature is due almost entirely to other causes than mere expansion .
Experiments on the permanent alterations of resistance which can be produced by stress , furnish valuable information respecting the .
" limit of elasticity " of metals .
There are two " critical points " in every metal at which sudden .changes occur in the ratio of the permanent extension due to any load and the load itself. .
The first of these points fixes the position of the true limit of elasticity , and the second that of the " breaking-point .
" With iron there are three , and , perhaps , more " critical points .
" The total resistance of most metals is permanently increased by permanent longitudinal extension , but with nickel the total resistance is permanently decreased , provided the extension does not exceed a .certain limit : beyond this limit further extension causes the resistance to increase .
The rate at which a wire is " running down " under the influence of a load can be very advantageously studied by observing the permanent increase of resistance produced by the load .
If P be the " breakingload of a metal , and p be the load actually on the wire , the decrease per unit of the velocity of the increase of resistance is inversely proportional to P\#151 ; p:so that the breaking-load of a wire can be calculated from observations of the rate of increase of resistance when a loaded wire is " running down .
" The above-mentioned proportion is constant not only for one and the same metal , but for all metals .
The small effects which can be produced by permanent extension , hammering , and torsion on specific electrical resistance were very fully investigated , and are shown in the paper by a series of curves .
All the metals examined , except iron and nickel , have their specific resistances increased by strain caused by the above-mentioned processes , provided the strain does not exceed a certain limit , beyond this limit further strain decreases the specific resistance .
In the case of iron and nickel , on the contrary , the specific resistance is at first decreased and afterwards increased .
The effect on the resistance of annealed steel produced by heating and suddenly cooling was also studied , and it was proved that if the steel be heated to a temperature under " dull red , " sudden cooling decreases the resistance ; whereas if the metal be heated up to or beyond " dull red , " sudden cooling increases the resistance : the strain , therefore , caused by this process , and that resulting from purely mechanical 1882 .
] Stress and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces .
281 treatment , are similar as regards their influence on the electrical In order to make certain small corrections rendered necessary by the changes of density of the metals after they had been subjected to extension , hammering , or torsion , these changes were very carefully measured , and were found to be in every case small .
The amount of recovery of electrical conductivity produced by time in wires , which are in a state of strain , is shown in the paper for several metals by a series of curves , and these exhibit most conclusively the superiority of platinum-silver over German-silver when an accurate copy of a standard resistance has to be kept for a long period of time ; in fact , of all the metals tested , German-silver showed the most marked recovery of conductivity , and platinum-silver the least .
... .
The recovery of electrical conductivity is in all cases attended with recovery of longitudinal elasticity and of torsional rigidity .
A full examination of the influence of permanent strain on the susceptibility to temporary change of resistance from change of temperature showed that metals may be divided into two classes .
In the first of these classes , which includes iron , zinc , and platinum-silver , , the strained wire is most increased in resistance by rise of temperature up to a certain limit of strain , whilst beyond this limit further strain diminishes the first effect .
In the second class , which comprises copper , silver , platinum , and German-silver , the strained wire is least increased in resistance by rise of temperature , but that , here again , after a certain point of strain has been reached , the first effect begins to be diminished .
It will further be shown in Part IV , that there must be some close relationship between the thermo-electrical properties of strained and unstrained metals and their susceptibility to change of resistance from change of temperature , and that strain of any kind , whether produced by purely mechanical means , such as traction , hammering , and torsion , or by the process of tempering , renders a piece of metal thermo-electrically positive or negative to a similar piece of metal unstrained , according as the strained piece is caused to be less or more increased in electrical resistance by rise of temperature .
After some trouble , means were found of measuring with considerable accuracy at 100 ' C. the alteration of electrical resistance due to temporary longitudinal traction , and the experiments led to the belief that the elasticity of iron and steel is not temporarily but 'permanently increased by raising the temperature to 100 ' C. Subsequently direct observations of the elasticity made in the manner described in Part x , but on shorter lengths of wire , placed in an air-chamber , the temperature of which could be maintained constantly at 100 ' C. , proved beyond a doubt that if M. Wertheim , to whom we owe so much of our Mr. H. Tomlinson .
Influence of fJan .
26 knowledge concerning elasticity , had examined the elasticity of iron ando steel after these metals , tested at the higher temperature of 100 ' C. , had again cooled down to the lower one , he would have found that what to him appeared , in the case of these metals* to be a temporary increase of elasticity was a one , and if the wires used had been tested several times , first at the higher and then at the lower temperature , he would have also found , provided sufficient rest after cooling had been allowed , that the elasticity of both iron and steel is temporarily diminished by raising the temperature to 100 ' C. Wot only is a comparatively large and permanent change produced in the elasticity of iron by merely raising the temperature^to 100 ' C. , but in the case of well annealed iron wire there is sometimes an enormous change produced in the ductility ( in one specimen the ductility was diminished 50 per cent. ) by the same process ; and since very appreciable effects have been proved to be brought about in the same manner in the magnetic inductive capacity , the specific resistance , and the thermo-electrical properties of iron and steel , it would appear that researches on these properties might lend valuable aid in investigations on the liability of wrought-iron axles to fracture , which is produced by sudden changes of the temperature of the air .
It was further noted that shortly after the iron or steel has been heated and then cooled , there is less elasticity than when a rest of some hours has been allowed , and in fact we have in the case exactly the same kind of restitution of elasticity as we have seen takes place after a wire has received mechanical extension .
With nickel the increase of elasticity produced by rest after cooling is still more remarkable .
The effects of very slight mechanical strain , and of the strain caused by raising annealed iron or steel to 100 ' C. , and afterwards cool-ing , on the torsional rigidity of these metals were next examined , and it was shown that the torsional rigidity is affected in a precisely similar manner to the longitudinal elasticity , both by raising the temperature to 100 C. , and then cooling , and by the strain resulting from slight mechanical traction .
On the whole it was seen that as regards either purely mechanical strain , or that caused by tempering , there are for iron and steel three critical points : very slight strain increasing , moderate strain diminishing , and excessive strain again increasing both the torsional and longitudinal elasticity .
The temporary alteration of susceptibility to change of resistance from change of stress , which is effected in the case of nickel by laising the temperature to 100 ' C. , is as remarkable as the suscepti-bility itself , and the maximum diminution of resistance which could be produced by stress when the metal was at the temperature of the room was actually more than twice that at 100 ' C. * " Ann. de Chimie et de Phys. , " 3me serie , 1844 , p. 431 .
1882 .
] Stress and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces .
283 The alteration of electrical conductivity , which can be produced by magnetisation was carefully studied , and a full account of the modes of experimenting , of the apparatus employed , and the precautions adopted will be found in the paper .
The substances examined were iron , steel , nickel , cobalt , bismuth , copper , and zinc , and in all cases , except that of copper , it was proved that longitudinal magnetisation increases the electrical resistance , whether the substance is in an annealed or unnannealed condition .
With copper wire no trace of change of resistance could be detected when the wire was under the influence of a powerful electro-magnetic solenoid .
In the case of zinc , which was in the form of foil , no alteration of resistance was discernible until the action of the solenoid was supplemented by that of a stout iron core , which was placed inside the solenoid and round which the foil was wrapped .
In the next table will be found the increase of resistance per unit produced in the different substances by an absolute electro-magnetic unit of magnetising force , when the magnetisation is longitudinal .
Name of metal .
Condition .
Diameter in millimetres .
Increase of resistance per unit produced by unit magnetising force .
Iron ... Annealed 0-94 2335 x10-8 Steel ... ... ... .
Annealed ... ... 0-85 1500 Steel Unannealed ... .
2'33 1137 Steel Very hard 2 33 70 Nickel Annealed 105 8070 Nickel Unannealed ... .
7 00 4343 Cobalt Unannealed ... .
7'50 628 Bismuth ... ... Unannealed ... .
3 30 21 Of all the metals examined , annealed nickel was by far the most affected by a given amount of magnetising force .
The increase of resistance produced by magnetisation can be very accurately represented by the formula 7=a .
a+ 6 .
; where 7 is the increase of resistance , a the magnetising force , ft the induced magnetism , and a , b constants for the same substance when the same amount of current per unit of area flows through the substance .
When different strengths of current are used in measuring the resistance of annealed iron , the alteration of resistance caused by a given magnetising force increases with the amount of current per unit of area which flows through the substance .
The induction current produced by the magnetisation of the iron in a coil surrounding the latter is also greater when a current is flowing through the iron than when it is not .
With annealed nickel , or with unannealed steel , The Influence of Stress and , fyc .
[ Jan. 26 , there is little or no perceptible difference in either the increase of resistance or the induction current due to magnetisation , whether a current is or is not at the time flowing through the metal .
In the paper curves are shown exhibiting the connexions between increase of resistance , magnetisation , and induced magnetism .
From these curves , and from the fact of the above-mentioned formula holding good , it is assumed that the resistance will go on increasing with the magnetising force even when the latter is so great that farther increase of force does not produce perceptible increase of magnetism .
In some remarks made in the paper on the nature of the alteration of resistance which is produced by magnetisation , it is stated , that " had the nature of the change of resistance been the same for longitudinal mechanical stress as for longitudinal magnetisation in the case of all metals , there is nothing in the actual amount of alteration that might not lead us to suppose that the change of resistance from the latter cause is due to mere rotation of the molecules considered simply as molecules without regard to the electric currents , which , according to Ampere 's hypothesis , are constantly circulating round these molecules .
But when we find , that with nickel , longitudinal traction , which must also cause to a certain extent rotation of the molecules , but without magnetic polarity , actually produces decrease of resistance , we are probably right -when we conjecture , that the change of resistance resulting from magnetisation is in a great measure due to the fact that the current used in the ' bridge ' is encountered by a set of molecular currents circulating all more or less in the same direction , and in planes more or less at right angles to the direction of the ' bridge '-current , according as the magnetism induced is greater or less .
" These molecular currents would cause the current passing through the substance to flow spirally , and the effect would be aided by the action of the magnetising force itself , which action would go on increasing with increase of force , even when no appreciable further increase of induced magnetism took place .
Since Professor Hall has proved that such action is possible , and that nickel , iron , and cobalt are very conspicuous in this respect , we have some support for this view .
The " circular " magnetisation which any .
magnetic substance undergoes when a current is conducted through it , seems to have very little or no appreciable effect on the electrical resistance of the substance , so that , if we compare the resistances of iron and platinum , the ratio of the two will be independent of the electromotor employed in the " bridge .
" The effects of temporary stress on the alteration by magnetism of the resistance of .
an iron or nickel wire are of a somewhat similar nature to those caused by the stress on the magnetic inductive capacity of Presents .
1882 .
] these metals , and the same may be said with regard to the effects of the permanent strains due to extension , torsion , \amp ; c. Longitudinal stress which may be made to diminish considerably the susceptibility to alteration of resistance from magnetisation , cannot even when earned to the extent of causing breakage , change the nature of the alteration .
There is apparently a close relationship between the " viscosity " of a metal and its specific electrical resistance , and it seems very probable that a full investigation of the former of these two physical properties by the method of torsional vibrations would afford valuable information respecting the latter .
Presents , January 12 , 1882 .
Transactions .
London:\#151 ; Anthropological Institute .
Journal .
Vol. X. JN o. 4 .
Vol. XI .
Nos. 1 , 2 .
8vo .
London 1881 .
The Institute .
Art Union .
Report , 1881 .
8vo .
London 1881 .
The Union .
British Pharmaceutical Conference .
Year-book of Pharmacy , 1881 .
8vo .
London 1881 .
The Conference .
East India Association .
Journal .
Vol. XIII .
No. 3 .
8vo .
London 1881 .
The Association .
Entomological Society .
Transactions .
1881 .
Part 4 .
8vo .
London .
The Society .
Linnean Society .
Journal .
Zoology .
Vol. XVI .
No. 89-Botany .
Vol. XIX .
Nos. 115-116 .
8vo .
London 1881 .
The Society .
Royal Astronomical Society .
Monthly Notices .
Vol. XLI .
Nos. 8,9 .
Vol. XLII .
No. 1 .
8vo .
London .
The Society .
Newcastle-upon-Tyne:\#151 ; North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers .
An Account of the Strata of Northumberland and Durham .
8vo .
Newcastle-upon-Tyne 1878 .
The Institute .
Paris:\#151 ; l\#163 ; cole des Hautes Etudes .
Bibliotheque .
Sciences Philo-logiques et Historiques .
Fasc .
45\#151 ; 49 .
4to .
and8vo .
Paris 1880\#151 ; gl The School .
j\#163 ; cole Normale Superieure .
Annals .
Tome X. Nos. 8\#151 ; 12 et Supplement .
4to .
Paris 1881 .
The School .
Institut de France .
Academy des Sciences .
Comptes Rendus .
TomeXCII .
Tables .
Tome XCIII .
4to .
Paris 1881 .
The Institute .
Museum d'Histoire Naturelle .
Nouvelles Archives .
Serie 2 .
Tome IV .
4to .
Paris 1881 .
Rapports Annuels .
1879 , -80 .
8vo .
Paris1880-81 .
The Museum .
Soeiete d'Anthropologie .
Memoires .
2e Serie .
Tome II .
Fasc .
VOL. xxiii .
x

