]\gt ; 1879 .
] Researches in quivalence .
have probably found the state where the satellite first existence .
The conditions of bility of a ting mass of fluid very obsctlre , but it seems probable } the stability brokc down the gradually separated into two parts , then the condition imafter scpnration be .
likc the unstable described ve .
In conclusion , I will { few to show that the .
point on surface need not neccss rily move down the steepcst path , but may cvcn depart bottom of a furrow or move along a .
Of this cases will gi The will now be supposed to bc mereIy all cve ticle .
First , ivcn moment of momentum , the cnergy is rentcr w the axis of the planet is oblique to the orbit .
Hencc , if we an surface which one of the -ordinate axes corresponds to obliquity , then there must be a in the surface corresponding to zero obliquity .
To conclude the obliquity of the eclipbic must diminish in consequence of friction would be erroueous .
ln fact , it will appear , in my paper on the " " Precession of a Viscons Spheroid , ' ' that for a of viscosity the position of zero obliqnity is dynamically unstable , if the period of the satellitc is reater than vicc that of the planct 's otation .
Thus tho , though on the encrgy surface , will depart from the bottom of the furrow .
Secondly .
For givcn moment of momcntum ] ) less if the orbit be ccccntric , and an GllGl.gy surfnce may bc constlucted which zero CCCPntl'icity corresponds to a .
Now , I belve that hhall bc able to show , i11 a future upcr , for viscosity of the planet the circular orbit is stable if tccn p be less than cleven periods of the p 's rot tion .
will afford a case of the point down a when , howover , criticnl point is , the point will depart from the and orbit becomc eccentric .
IX .
" " in \ldquo ; J. MtLLS , D.Sc. .
J. J. IrTlI .
of Ilickcl is vicw , more of ; cse metals .
proportions , fact .
or Part II , see \ldquo ; vol. , p. 270 .
Dr. E. J. Mills and J. J. [ June 19 , according to the most valuablo evidence we possess , *appear to be entircly the same .
We , therefore , thought it very advisable to inquire on what terms they might prove to be mutually equivalent : and the equivalence we have mined has been equivalent pre .
Rbility of the sulphates , by sodic hydrate , from an aqueous solution .
I. of the The cobaltous salt was prepared by converting some excellent commercial crystallized into luteochloride , tlJe process employed having been already described by one of us .
The Iuteochloride was purified by precipitation with hydric chloride , and the mixture of oxides it left on ignition was evaporated with redistilled bydric sulphate .
The pure nickelous salt was prepared from a sample of nickelous chloridc which contained copper , lime , and iron , but no cobalt .
The coppcr was ' with hydric sulphide , and the nickel in the filtrate was precipitated by hydric oxalate , in an acid solutio1 ] .
The nickelous oxalate was washed thoroughly with dilute hydric nitrate , ignited , and the oxide so formed heated with pure hydric sulphate , and so converted into sulphate .
II .
dfethod of Neckel from Cobalt .
We had next to select a method for the quantitative separation of nickel from cobalt .
The first to which we had recourse was Liebig 's , } .
which consists in adding ydric cyallide and potash to the mixed saline soIutions , thereby forming nickelopotassic cyanide and potassic cobalticyanide : these new compounds are boiled freshly precipitated mercuric oxide , hich throws down the nickel as oxide and cyatlide .
The cobalt in the filLrate is then precipitated as mercurous cobalticyanide .
On ignition of these precipitates , nickelous oxide and cobaltic oxide are respectively left behind .
We converted the oxides into ates and them as such .
( Throughout the wholc of these expel i the nickel and cobalt were always weighed as We ound , howevcr , thnt aHer the expulsion , by nition , of the mercury the ) recipitates , oxides were left in so and compact a state , with the grcatest difficulty thnt they could be conVCl.tcd into sulphates .
remedy this , quRlltily of pure was added to the liquid beforc precipitaticn ; itntc , becoming mixed with the baric as { hus sprcad over a ) , so that oxide ; obtained in a fincly divided state , easily convcrted into sulphate .
*Russc]l , Joul.nal of the Socictv , ' ' ( 1809 ) , p. 294 .
( 1 ) , xxxv , p. 21o .
Ann. Ch. \ldquo ; , 244 .
in emical quiralence .
In the with this process , the nickel was found too }{ at tirst to be due to might to the oxide ; and , on tcstin o , some potash was actually found the precipitate , which hnd been washod .
To reve this source of , tbc nickelons late , instead of snch , was dissolved in wntcr , cxcess of ammollia added , itnd nickel depoFiited o a platinum crucible , by of two 's cells .
But the nickel method , still found too then tion had not been perfect .
On deposit , a of cobalt 11 as , in fact , follnd i the opcration required to be repeated three times before the tion was comI ) The next process we tried devised by Rose .
* It con sists in with chIorine a very dilute solution of the mixed bnric rbouate in exccss , and allowing to stand from to cighteen hours , occasional .
The cobalt then falls as sesquioxide , the nickel solution .
But the results obtained by this method , was also the wit ] ] 's modification of it ( lvhich consists in for chlorine ) vere very variable .
In the the cobalt was generally found too low , even after over evhteen hours ; the resuIt appearing to depend a good on the liquid up at thar intervals , which cannot be very convenienly done , an entire period of eightecn the lattcr , the ) was generally found too high , nickel with it .
The last method tried , and one adopted , is due ) In this , the ncutral solution of is boiled ] ) nbic peroxidc .
The cob is precipit a oxide , whilc t nickel remains in solution , aloll with ntity of lend .
author of this process docs not accurac for it , but we have found it to be of Llracy .
) The manner in we follows : perfccfly neutral solution of the mixed boiled for with plumbic peroxide , bout 7 .
of the peroxidc to 1 .
of cobidtons sulphate , the volumc of the l about 100 .
ccntims .
liquid wns filtered , ftntl filtr{c ated to { bout 2 .
ccntims .
Sotlc { tquCt ) ] was then the tity of ) filtered off .
The solution of nicl-elous then ) to ncbS in crucible , little cated to very dull redness cobalt , cxccss of ) Ulll idc and some sul*\ldquo ; Sill .
Dr. E. J. Mills and J. J. Smith .
[ June 19 , , was boiled with hydric chloride until dissolved .
Water was then added , and the lead precipitated with hydric sulphate and alcohol .
The filtrate from the plumbic was then ftporated to dryness , eated t the excess of hydric stllphate was driven off , and dissolved ater .
A ] hydric sulphide was then added , to remove a small of lead still present , the filtrate evaporated to dryness , and the altous sphate W plumbic peroxide must , of course , be perfectly pure , because impurity in it its way into bhe cobalt , and consequently makes that result too high .
In an experiment with this process , .
of cobaltous sulpLate , and .
nickelous snlphate were taken , and the quantities found after the separation were cobaltour ; sulpLate , and .
nickelous sulphate .
The estimation of the cobalt is rather a troublesome and tedious process ; but when the mixturc of nickel and cobalt can be weighed , and the nickel in it cstimated , the cobalt being taken by difference , this is an admirabJe method to employ .
following are some results of the estimation of the nickel in a mixture of .
of cobaltous sulphate and .
of nickelous sulphate .
Nickelous .
Found .
( 1 .
) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, . .
2480 ( 2 .
) . . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . .
2505 ( 3 .
) . . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . .
2490 ( 4 .
) . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . .
2495 . . . . . . . . . .
, , . . . . . . . . . .
2480 .
2490 Probable of a singc determination per cent. III .
on Equivalence .
then fixed on the method of separation , 1 per cent. solutions of nickelous and ltous sulphates were epared , and solution of sodic hydrate , of which 10 .
centims. were capable 01 precipitating .
of nickclous or cobaltous sulphate .
This hodic hydrat was made from sodium , and kept in lass bottles coated internally with atlrick of of nine ) } as made , in which the relative nickclous ] present , varied from 1 to ( L ) grm. ; { he total of cobaltous salt , and the volumc of holution } ) , however , the saltle , nnd 100 ccntilns .
experiments conducted follows:\mdash ; The boltlcs tl1c solutions of the sulphttcs and the sodic were iIltlllcrsed in into which a { iow of water to bring them to a nstallt temperature .
The carches in Chemical nivalence .
tities of nickclous and cobaltous solutions rofully llcaslled out , mixed , and the observed .
10 centims. of sodic hydrate were then itddod , the solution ously , the temperature .
observed .
The precipitntc theu ofl ns qnickly as possible ( an tlsL !
d to facilil : the ) , and with cold and wnter .
dnys ' to frco the ecipitato from the composed llickelous and dtous snlts , cobaltous to .
{ is well kllO ctjon for phate , a basic salt .
ftcl .
, the WflScoJlvel.ted iuto sulphnto by treatment Yith h were tl Icll ed in scpnrated 's nlethod , nickclous the cobaltous sulphate ined by .
It ntity of sodic csent i the , the having iled to reluove it , required to bc dedncted .
the ttickclous , after , was in the precipifated with ydrnte .
The rium i the liltrate then removed , and the tiltrate consodic sulph evnporated to dryness and comprised in the .
table .
is tnble the precipitttfcs of of odic hydrate employed been ) elltirc composition ) tot , the { of sodie hate is { irst ntit .
, ; icll is ltouh s carried down with the , is the cobaltous nlly t , it hav.ing no the to .
Under " " ture \ldquo ; wo of Dr. E. J. Mills and J. J. Smith .
[ June 19 , reagcnts before and after mixture .
The weight of precipitated sodic suTphate varies but little throughout the experiments , its mean value being .
In a special determination : we precipitated , with the usual amount of sodic hydrate , .
of nickelous sulphate alone : after three days ' , it was found contain of sodic sulphate .
Hence we infer that when the two sulphates are prescnt cther , nickelous hydrate carries down sodic sulphate , cobaltous hydrate dow cobaltous sulphate .
IV .
DiscussioJt .
In the following discussion , it will be understood that we refer to the bular results already ivcn .
If esent a nickclous sulphate taken , and be the culated to sulphate ) obtained from it through precipitation , tlJen we consider ( in the expression to represent the precipit of nickelous hate : and similarly in represents the precipitability of cobaltous ate .
In the numbers obtained with the nickelous salt , the best expression we could find for was .
We first calculated the values of and from all the eterminations , and by the ethod of least squares , thus It is , however , clear that cannot bc less than moreover , the first of nickelous is somewhat higher than is possible , and we have wcll reject it .
With these amendments finally obtain with a probable error of for a determination , or 00904 for determinations .
Hence we infer that the elous is ) to its Jn the case of cobaltous sulphate , on the other hand , no such law holds good .
After a very mination of the numbers , we could find any ctory evidcrlce of a chaI ) in precipitability with its mass , and consequcntly ropresent as a coustant .
The mean valuc of is in this case , with a probable error of on a determination , or 00931 for nine determinations .
Thus is about cqually well asccrtained in th cases .
two cquations may now be written Tn order to calculate in what proportions the two sulphates are equally precipitable , we have 1879 .
] Reseorches in mical alence .
whence ? .
The two sulphates , , are equally precipitable when the eight taken of is To lculate in what proportions ) two sulphates must be mixed , to give cqual weights of precipitae , we have If we put , and combine these equations , the result is a quad , one of whose solutions is ) .
and consequently ) .
in primitivo cquations , , which we my ftrd as ] A important chelnical relation is disclosed two so conditioned as to equally precipitable .
We have is the case when ) the reciprocal of is , \mdash ; a nulllbcr by only the small amount of ccnt .
from , or Deduced , as these values scries of ents , )uluot hold their connexion to accidental .
lt be thus expressed symbols , \mdash ; ; or may state the relation ) are ) ; the of the one ' the other .
order this function admits of ion to other .
of the slllphates , we doubled the in one of our ions e ( in tho table ) , rmined the chemical cffecb .
Th results vcre corrccted total precipitate . . . . . .
of nickolous sulphate . .
halves of these are . . . . . . . . . .
' , ures n idcntical derived from } ) eriment V. By doul ) ] nass , thus doul ) [ tho chcmical .
It ] is ; and , forc , we infcr tl at the havo noticed to multiplcs of the to , in our ticul case , it appcrtained .
in mind that accordingly write the nction tbus : Prof. Dewar .
On the Formation of [ June 19 , If we some reaction\mdash ; such , for example , as the tion of matter with a tissue\mdash ; influenced in one set of criments b nickelous sulphate , and in an alto , ether set by an equal of cobaltous , we can hardly conceive any ound for the development of a reclprocal function , such as we have xperimentally traced .
On the other hand , it seems lpposc that , when two bodies are simultaneously confronted with , they both contend for its effect .
Thus a chemical between them by virtue merely of their being thence reciprocal function .
So far as we are aware , only other chcmical function of the kind , hitherto investigated , is fonnd in examination of the partial precipitation , mmonic phosphate , of mixed calcic and nesic chlorides .
chemist at the conclusion , for which we consider his c.vidcncc to bc adequate , that " " masses of calcic and nesic lorides have always equal , but oppositely active , coefficients of \ldquo ; On the ormation of Hydrocyanic Acid in the Electric ' By JAIIES DEWAR , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of nistry to the Royal Institution .
Beceived June 5 , 1879 .
A sel.ies of experiments favouring the conclusion that the so-called citrbo1l lines are invariably the formation of acetylene nduced mc to mnkc some experiments to ascertain whether this substance can be from the electric arc , which shows .
spectrum at the positive pole , when it is powerful and mittent .
this purpose the carbons were used in form of tubes , so that a current of air could be drawn by means lrator t eibher pole , and the products thus extracted from , collected in water , alkalies , and absorbents .
Gases may .
through one of the poles , and suction induced the other , bo examlne effecb on the arc .
following experiments record the results obtained by means of the and de machines .
.\mdash ; Drew a current of air by an aspirator throuoh the ative .
carbon , and passed gases , and ioclide of potassium , and starch pasbe ; found no nitribes ; potash conned sulphides .
Hydrogen led in by the positive pole and the gases xtracted as above , gave the well-known acetylene compound with * Ann. Ch. Pharm Supp. As suggested by Plucker , ngstrom , and Thalen .

