]\gt ; 1871 .
] Mr. 1 Galton 's Experiments in angenesis .
ffer each minimum , and concludes by a simple proportion of the remainder .
He finds that the curve ascends more pidly than it descends\mdash ; the ascent taking in the mean years , the descent lasting years .
We hare established these data far more reliably in our last paper ; and our curve years for the ascent , years for the descent ( avelage of the three periods ) .
Proessor Wolf also thinks that although a single period may differ essentially in its chal ncter and form from the mean , stil ] , on the whole , if the descent is retarded , the ascent in the same period is also retarded ; if the former is accelerated , the latter is also accelerated This is ot quite borne out by our curve .
IIe also orerlooks the secondary , which may lead to great conclusions if more investigated together with other matters .
M. Fritz comes to the following conclusions:\mdash ; 1 .
The connexion between sun-spots and aul.oral and magnetic disturbances indicates an external cause , to be sollght in planetary configurations .
2 .
reIative influence of the })lanets must be exerted in the order :Jupiter ( greatest ) , Venus , Mercury , , Saturn .
3 .
This influence cannot entirely depcnd on the time of rotation ; but chauges in the magnetic axes of these planets may the most detereffecC .
4 .
ating the comp rative influcnces of singly and together ( as far as possible ) , at the of nction { quadrature , he finds greatest of maxima of -spots with the time wheu Jupiter and Saturn are in quadrature ; and the greatest coincidence of a when these planets are in conjunction .
5 .
There is also ( a minor ) coincidence of maxima when Jupiter and Venus are in quadrature .
There is also extension of the paper for finding the connexions with auroras , and a statement that every there seems to be a monthly maximum , may probably bc explnined ( nccordin to 'ritz ) tcndency of ] ) solar lneridinn to spot-formations , presence of an Iercurial planet . .
Sir EDIVAIID } , K.C.13 .
, idcnt , in the ing colnmuniction vcre r I. " " incnts in cncsis , ccding from of a pure iety , into circulation blood taken tics had previously been transfused By GALTON , F.II .
S. lleceived ) , 1871 .
Darwi ' theor of Pangcncsis claims our belicf on the gronnd it is only theory hich c ) by a single law , the numcrous Mr. F. Galton 's Experiments in Pangenesis .
[ Mar. phenomena allied to simple reproduction , such as reversion , growth , and repair of injuries .
On the other hand , its postulates are hypothetical and large , so that few naturahsts seem willing to grant them .
To myself , astudent of Heredity , it seemed of pressing importance that these postulates should be tested .
If their truth could be established , the influence of Pangenesis on the study of heredity would be immense ; if otherwise the negative conclusion would still be a positive gain .
It is necessary that I should briefly recapitulate the cardinal points of Mr. Darwin 's theory .
They are 1 ) that each of the myriad cells in every living body is , to a great extent , an independent organism ; 2 ) that it is developed , and in all stages of its development , it throws " " gemmules\ldquo ; into the circuIation , which there and breed , each truly to its kind , by the process of self-division , and that , consequently , they swarm in the blood , in large numbers of each variety , and circulate freely with it : ( 3 ) that the sexual elements consist of organized groups of these gemmules ; ( 4 ) thal development of certain of the gemmules in the offspring depends on their consecutive union , through their natural affinities , each at taching itself to its predecessor in a regular order of growth ; ( 5 ) that gemmules of innumerable 1-rieties may be transmitted for an enormous number of generations without being developed into cells , but always ready to become so , as shown by the almost insuperable tendency to feral reversion .
in domesticated animals .
It follows from this , from the general tenor of Mr. Darwiu 's reasoning and illustrations , that two animals , to outward appearance of same pure variety , one of which has mongrel ancestry and the other has not , differ solely in the stitution of their blood , so far as concerns those points on which outward appearance depends .
The one has none but gemmule/ of the pure variety circuIating in his veins , and will breed true to his kind : the other , alchough only the pure variety of skin-gemmules happens to have been dereloped in his own skin , has abundance of mongrel gemmules in his blood , and will be apt to breed mongrels .
It also follows from this that the stream of heredity must flow in a far smaller volume from the developed parental cells , of which there is only one of each variety , than from the free gemmules circulatiug with the blood , of which there is alarge number of each variety .
If a parental developed cell bred faster than a free gemmule , an intlux of new immigrants would gradually supplant the indigenous gemmules ; under which supposition , a rabbit which , at the age of six months , produced young which reverted to ancestral peculiarities , would , when five years old , breed truly to his individual peculiarities ; but of this there is no evidence whatever .
Under Mr. Darwin 's theory , the gemmuIes in each individual must therefore be looked upon as entozoa of his blood , and , so far as the roblems of heredity are concerned , the body need be looked upon as little more than a case which encloses them , built up through the development of some of their number .
Its influence upon them can be only such as 1871 .
] Mr. F. Galton 's Bxperiments in Pangenesis .
395 would account for the very minute effects of use or disuse of parts , and of acquired mental habits being tritlsmitted hereditarily .
It occurred to me , when considering these theories , that the truth of Pangenesis admitted of a direct and certain test .
I knew that the operation of transfusion of blood had been frequently practised with success on men as well as animaIs , and that it was not a operation\mdash ; that not only had it been used in midwifery practice , but that large quantities of saline water had been injected into the veins of patients suffering under cholera .
I therefore determined to inject alien blood into the circulation of pure vnrieties of animals ( of course , under the influence of anaesthetics ) , and to breed from them , and to whether .
offspring did or did not show signs of elism .
If Pangenesis were true , according to the interpretation which I have put upon it , the results would be startling in their novelty , and of no small practical use ; for it would become possible to modify varieties of animals , by introducing slight dashes of new blood , in ways important to breeders .
Thus , supposing a small infusion of bull-dog blood was wanted in a breed of greyhounds , this , or any more complicated admixture , might be effected ( possibly by operating through the umbilical cord of a newly born animal ) in a single generatio1l .
I have now made experiments of transfusion and cross circulation on a large scale in rabbits , and have arrived at definite results , , in my opinion , beyond all doubt , the truth of the doctrine of Pangenesis .
The course of my experiments was as follows:\mdash ; Towards the end of 1869 , I wrole to Dr. Sclater , the Secretary of the ZoologicaI Society , exwhat I proposed to do , and asking if I might be allowed to keep my rabbits in some ullused part of the Gardens , because I had no accommodation for them in my own house , and I was also anxious to obtain the skilled advice of Mr. Bartlett , the Superintendent of the Gardens , as to their breed and the value of my resuIts .
I further asked to be permitted to avail myself of the services of their then Prosector , Dr. Murie , to make the operations , whose skill and long experience in minute dissection is well known .
I warmly to thank Dr. Sclater for the large assistance he has rendered to me , in all I asked , to the full , and more than to the full ; and I have especi to express my obligations to the laborious and kind aid given to me by Dr. Murie , at real inconvenience to himseIf , for he had little leisure to spare .
The whole of the ) erations of transfusion into thejugular vein were performed by him , with the help of Mr. Oscar Fraser , then Assistant Prosector , and now appointed Osteologist to the Museum at Calcutta , I doing no more than preparing the blood derived from the supply-animal , performing the actual injection , and taking notes .
The final series of opera- tions , con sisting of cross-circulation between the carotid arteries of two varieties of rabbits , took place nfter Dr. Murie had ceased to be Prosector .
They were performed by Mr. Fraser in a most skilful manner , though he and I were still further indebted , on more than one occasion , to Dr. Murie 's advice and assistance .
My part in this series was limited to in .
F. Galton 's Experiments in Pangenesis .
[ Mar. 80 , serting and tying the canulae , to making the cross-connexions , to recording the quality of the pulse through the exposed arteries , and making the other necessary notes .
The breed of rabbits which I endeavoured to mongrelize was the " " Silvergrey I did so by fusing blood into their circulation , which I had previously drawn from other sorts of rabbits , such as I could , from time to time , most readily procure .
I need hardly describe Silver-grey rabbits with minuteness .
They are in appearance , owing to the intimate mixture of black and grey hairs with which they are covered .
They are never blotched , except in the one peculiar way I shall shortly describe ; and they have never lop enrs .
They are born quite black , and their hair begins to turn grey when a few weeks old .
The variations to which the breed is liable , and which might at first be tt1ought due to mongrelism , are white tips to the nose and feet , and a thin white streak down the forehead .
But these variations lead to no uncertainty , especially as the white streak Iessens or disappears , and the white tips become less marked , as the animal grows up .
Another variation is much more peculiar : it is the tendency of some breeds to throw " " Himalayas or white rabbits with black tips .
From first to last I have not been troubled with white Himalayas ; but in one of the two breeds which I have used , and I keep carefully separated from each other , there is a tendency to throw " " sandy\ldquo ; Himalayas .
One of these was born a few days after I received the animals , before any operation had been made upon them , and put me on my guard .
A similar one has been born since au operation .
Bearing these few well-marked exceptions in mind , the Silver-grey rabbit is excellently adapted for breeding- experiments .
If it is crossed with other rabbits , the offspring betray monelism in the highest degree , because blotch of white or of colour , which is not .
Himalayan is almost certainly due to mongrelism ; and so also is any decided change in the shape of the ears .
I shall speak in this memoir of litters ) ected with twenty silvergrey rabbits , of which twelve are does and are bucks ; and eighleen of them have been submitted to one 0 two of three sorts of operations .
These consisted 1 ) Moderate transfusion of partially defibrinized blood .
The silvergrey was bled as much as he could easily bear ; that was to about an ounce , a quantity which bears the same } ) ortion to the weight of his body that .
bears to the eight of the body of a ; and the same amount of partially defibl.inized blood , taken killed alNimal of another variety , was thrown in in its ] ) lace .
The blood obtained from a yellow , common , or black and white rabbit , killed by dividing the throat , and received in a warmed basiu , where it was stirred a split stick to remove part of the fibrine .
Then it was fiItered linen into a measuring-glass , and thence drawn up a sy Illge , graduated into drachms ; and the quantity jected was noted .
( 2 ) The second set of operations COllsisted in alarge lransfusion of 1871 .
] Mr. F. Galton 's Experiments in Pangenesis .
defibriuized blood , which I procured by whipping it up thoroughly with a whisk of ; and , in order to procure sufficient blood , I had on one occasion to kill three rabbits .
I alternately bled the silver-grey and injected , until in some cases a total of more than 3 ounces had been taken out and the same quantity , ] defibrinized , had beeu thrown in .
This proportion corresponds to more than .
of blood in the case of a man .
( 3 ) The third con sisted iu establishing a system of cross-circulation bet veen the carotid artery of a -grey and that of a common rabbit .
It was effected on the same priuciple as that described by Addison and hIorgan ( Essay on Operation of Poisonous Agents upon the Body .
Lougman \amp ; Co. , 1829 ) , but with more delicate apparatus and for a n1uch longer period .
rabbits were placed breast to breast , in each other 's arms , so that their throats could be close ether .
A carotid of each was then exposed ; the circulation in each vessel was temporarily } ) , above and below , by spring holders ; the essels were ided , and short canulae , whose bores were 1 than ] ) bore of the artery in its normal , were pressed iuto the mechanically distended mouths of the arteries ; the cauulae were connected -wise ; the four spring holders were released , and the carotid of either animal poured its blood direct into the other .
The operation } ) licated , owing to the number of instruments employed ; but I suspeuded them from running over notched bars , buttons as coutlterpoiscs , and so avoided enlglement .
These operatious were exceedingly successful ; the pulse bounded thruugh the cannlae with full force : and though , in most cases , it began to fall off after ten ] utes or so , and I was obliged to ) the holders , disconnect the canulae , extract the clot from ioside ) miniature corkscrew , reconnect the canulae , and reestablish the cross-flow three , or more in the course of a single operation , yet ou two occasions the flow ) from to end .
buck rabbit , which I indicate by the letter as minutes in the most free cross-circulation imaginable with his " " blood-mate , , a large yellow rabbit .
There is no the quality of the tion in a tery ; for , when the is perfectly free , the ] ) ulse throbs and bounds betwccn the finger and thumb with a rush , of which the pulse the hunlan wrist , felt in the way , gives an perfect ception .
These , then , are } th sorts of ) erations which I have performed on the rabbits ; it is convenient that I should them ) ylcttcrs .
I will therefore call the operation of simply ] once , then injecting , by the letter of ) eated bleedings and Y } ) eated injections by the letter ; and that of tion by the letter In of these operations did I use any chemical nlls to detcrlnine the degree to which the blood was changed ; for I did ot veutnre compromise my chances of success by so severe a measure ; but I the following method of ctdculation \mdash ; VOL. XIX .
Mr. F. Galton 's in Pangenesis .
[ Mar. 80 , I calculate the change of blood effected by transfusion , or by cross.circulation , upon moderate suppositions as to the three following matters:\mdash ; The quantity of blood in a rabbit of known weight .
The time which elapses before each unit of incoming blood is well mixed with that already in the animal 's body .
( 3 ) The time occupied by the flow , through either carotid , of a volume of blood equal to the whole contents of the circulation .
As regards 1 , the quantity of blood iu au animaJ 's body does not admit , by any known method , of being accurately determined .
I am content to take the model.n rough estimate , that it amounts to one-tenth of its total .
If any should consider this too little , and prefer the largest estimate , .
that in Valentin 's Repertorium , ' vol. ffi .
( 1838 ) , p. 281 , where it is given for a rabbit as one part in every of the entire weight , he find the part of my argument which is based on transfusion to be weakened , but not overthrown , while that which relies on cross-circulation is not sensibly affected .
As regards 2 , the actual conditions are exceedingly complex ; but we may their difficulty by adopting a limiting value .
It is clear that when only a brief interval elapses before each unit of newly infused blood is mixed with that already in circulation , the quality of the blood which , at the moment of infusion into one of the cut ends of the artery or veln , flowing out of the other , will be more alienized than if the interval were longer .
It follows that the blood of the two animals will intermix more slowly when he interval is brief than when it is long .
Now I propose to adopt an extreme supposition , and to consider them to mix instantaneous ly .
The results I shall thereby obtain will necessarily be less favourable to change than the reality , and will protect me from the charge of exaggerating the completeness of intermixture .
As regards 3 , I estimate the flow of blood through either carotid to be such that the volume which passes through it in ten minutes equals the whole volume of blood in the body .
This is a estimate ; but I could afford to make it twice or even as liberal , without prejudice to my conclusions .
Upon the foregoing data the following Table has been constructed .
The formulae the blood in the Silver-grey be called , and let ts volume be , and let the quantity of alien blood be thrown in at each injection , then the quantity of blood remaining in the Silver-grey clrcu tion , after injections , If the successive injections be numerous and small , so as to be equivalent to a continuous flow , then , after of alien blood has passed in , the formula becomes V. 1871 .
] .
F. Galton 's Experiments in Pangenesis .
A comparison of the numerical results from these two formulae shows that no sensible difference is made if(within practicablelimits few and large , or many and small , injections are made , the total quantity injected being the same .
In cross.circulation the general formula is this:\mdash ; If be the volume of blood in the other rabbit , after of alien blood has passed through either canula , the quantity of blood remaining in the Silver-grey exceeds* .
This becomes when ; also , when is infinite , it gives the formula already mentioned for injection by a continuous flow of purely alien blood .
TABLE I. ( Contents of circulation of Silver-grey Rabbit ) I now give a list ( Table If .
) of the abbits to which , .
to whose blood- mates , I shall have to refer .
Every necessary particular will ) found in the Table:\mdash ; the of the rabbits ; the ) of in their veins ; the opcl.ations performed on them , fber ?
, or ; the particulars of those several operations ; the estimitted of alien blood that substituted for their natural blood ; and lastly , the ; size , and breed of their blood-nlates .
* I am indebted to Mr. George tvin for his Mr. F. Galton 's in Pangenesis .
[ Mar. 30 , TABLE II .
ccling :ealls c cctions ; neans cross-ci These rabbits belong to brced to \ldquo ; 1871 .
] .
F. GaIton 's reriments in Pangenesis Litters subsequent to first transfusion .
Both parents Silver-greys .
Aveproportion of alienized blood in either parent ; therefore in young also .
Litters Yent to second transfusion of buck .
Both parents grevs .
Average proportion of alienized blood in young about 41 .
subsequent to cross-circulation of buck only , the does being Both ) arents Silver-greys .
Average proportion of blood between and Litters to cross-circulation of both parents ( Silver-grevs ) .
Average proportion of alienized blood in young fully *These r Io a brced liablo to " " ) " " Ifinalayas .
Mr. F. Galton 's Eaperiments in Pangenesis .
[ Mar. 80 , Litters subsequent to cross-circulation of both parents common rabbits ) .
Average proportion of alienized blood in young a little less than In another list Table III .
I give particulars of all the litters I have obtained from these rabbits , classified according to the operations which the parents had previously unaergone .
I will now summarize the results .
In the first instance I obtaine five does and three bucks which had undergone the operation which I call , and which had in consequence about of their blood alienized .
I bred from these , partly to see if I had produced any effect by the little I had done , and chiefly to obtain a stock of young rabbits which would be born with of alien gemmules in their veins , and which , when operated upon thetnselves , would produce having nearly 1 alienized blood ( the exact proportion is 1\mdash ; 1\mdash ; .
I obtained thirty youllg ones in six litters ; and they were all true silver-greys , except , possibly , in one instance ( out of the doe by the buck ) , lvhere one , of a litter of five , ] a white fore leg , the white extending to the knee-joint .
This white Ieg gave me great hopes that Pangenesis would turn out to be true , it might easily be accounted for by other causes ; for my stock were sickly ( both those on which I had not operated and those ou which I had suffering severely from a skin disease , and it was natural under those circumstances of ill health that more white than usual should appear in the young .
Having , then , had experience in transfusion , and feeling myself capable of managing a more complicated operation without confusion , I began the series which I call .
I left my old lot of does untouched , but obtained one new doe , which had undergone the last operation , and three bucks which had undergone both operations , and .
On endeavouring to breed from them , the result was unexpected , they appeared to have become sterile .
The bucks were as eager possible for the does ; but the latter proving indifferent , I unable to testify to their u11ion having taken place ; so I left them in pairs , iu the same hutch , for periods of three days at a time .
Attempts were made in thiS *These rabbits belong to a breed liable to throw " " Sandv\ldquo ; Himalayas .
I always allowed the bucks to for awhile with waste doss before commonclng the ents , thnt all old reproductive material might be got rid of .
1871 .
] Mr. F. Galton 's Experiments in Pangenesis .
403 way , to breed from them in seven instances ; and five of them were utter failures .
One case was quite successful ; and that , tunately , was of the same pair and which , under the operation , had bred the white-footed young one .
This time .
the offspring ( six in number ) were pure silver-greys .
The last case unfortunate .
The doe ) had been once sterile to its partner ( and she had been put again in the same hutch with him for a short period , bnt was thought not to have taken him .
She was shortly , afterwards submitted to the operation From this she had nearly recovered when she brought forth an aborted litter and died .
I was absent from town at the time ; but Mr. Fraser , who examined them , wrote to say he fully believed that some were pied ; if so , it must have been under the influence of the cross-circulation .
But I have little faith in the tlppearance of the skin of naked , immature rabbits ; for I have noticed that difference of transparency , and the colour of underlying tissues , give fallacious indications .
My results thus far came to this , .
that by injecting defibrinized blood I had produced no other effect than temporary sterility .
If the sterility were due to this cause alone , my results admitted of being interpreted in a sense favourable to Pangenesis , because I had deprived the rabbits of a large part of that very component of the blood on which the restoration of tissues depends , and therefore of that part iu which , according to Pangenesis , the reproductive elements be expected to reside .
I had injected alien corpuscles but not alien gemmules .
The possible success of the white foot , in my first litters , was not contradicted by the absence of any ( hing of the sort in my second set , because the additional blood I had thrown in was completely defibrinized .
It was essential to the solution of the problem , that blood in its state should be injected ; and I thought the most convenient way of doing so was b.v establishing crosscirculation between the carotids .
If the results were affirmative to the truth of Pangenesis , then my first experiments would not be thrown away ; for ( supposing them to be confirmed by larger experience ) they wouId prove that the elements lay the fibrine .
But if crosscirculation gave a negative reply , it would be clear that the white foot an accident of no importance to the theory of Pangenesis , and that the sterility need not be ascribed to the loss of hereditary gemmules , but to abnormal health , due to defibrinization and perhaps to other causes nlso .
My operations of cross-circulation I call x ) put me in } ) ossession of three excellent silver-grey bucks , four excellent silver-grey does , and one doe whose operation was uot successful enough for me to care to couut it .
One of my does ( B ) had already undergone the operation , and 1 had another of my old lot , which I left touched .
There were three common rabbits , bucks , which were blood-mates to silver-greys , and four common rabbits , does , also blood-mates of reys .
this large stock I have eighty-eight rabbils iu teco l , and in no single case has there been amy evidcuce of terntiou of brced .
There Mr. F. Experiments in Pangenesis .
[ MMar .
80 , has been one instance of a sandy Himalaya ; the owner of this breed assures me they liable to them , and , as a malter of fact , as I have already stated , one of the does he sent me , did litter and throw one a few days after she reached me .
The from this large series of experiments is not to be avoided , that the doctnlle of Pangenesis , pure and simple , as I have interpreted it , is incorrect .
us consider what were the aIternatives before us .
It seems a that , if the reproductive elements do not } ) on the bod .
and blood , they must reside either in the solid structure of the gland , lvhence they are set free by an ordinary process of growth , the blood merely affording nutriment to that growth , or else that they reside in the blood itself .
My experiments show that they are not independent residents in the blood , in the way that enesis asserts ; but they prove against the possibility of their being temporary habitants of it .
given off by existing cells , either in a fully developed state or else in one so rudimentary that we could only their existence by inference .
In this latter case , the transfused gemmules would have perished , just like the blood-corpuscles , long before the period had elapsed when the animals had recovered from the operations .
I trust that those who may erify my results will turn their attention to the latter possibility , and will try to get the male rabbits to } ) immediately , and on days , they have been operated on .
This be accomplished if there were does at hand ready to take them ; because it often happens that when the rabbits are released from the operating-table , they are little , if at all , dashed in their spirits ; they sniff about , are ready to fight , and , I have no doubt , to couple .
Whether after their wounds had begun to inflame , they would still take to the does , I cannot say ; but they sometimes rem so brisk , that it is obable that in those citses they would do so .
If this experiment succeeded , it would partly confirm the very doubtful case of the pied young of the doe which died after an operation of cross-circuIation ( which , however , further implies that though the ovum was detached , it was still possible for the mother gemmules to influence it ) , and it would prove that the reproductive elements were drawn from the blood , but that they had only a transient existence in it , and were continually renewed by fresh arrivals derived from the framework of the body .
lt would be exceedingly instructive , supposing the experiment to give affirmative results , to notice the gradually waning powers of producing mongrel offspring .
APPENDIX I. It is important that I should details of the opcrations of cross circulation .
I may mention that , having to deal with manly rbbits , I distiuguished them permanently by tattooing bold Roman in the inside of their ears .
1871 .
] .
F. Galton 's ) eriments in Pangenesis .
I. Experiments of cross-circulation on one buck and two does , pure silvergreys , of a breed obtained from Mr. E. , of Greenhill , Rochdale , the breed as that on which all my and experimenls had been made .
Oct. 19 , buck , , out of doe by , and therefore own brother to the -footed young one , a small rabbit , just six montbs old .
His blood-nlate was a Yellow buck , lop-eared , white throat , probably onevier than the .
I avoided unnecessary , because it frightens the animals , and tends to interfere with the final success .
At I made cross-circulation ; flow was perfect ; 12 , continued perfcct ; , perfect , ellow to silver-grcy perhaps the stronger ; , ditto ; , perfect both wnys : , ditto ; , ditto ; , ditto ; , ditto .
I then stopped tied up .
I tested the flow with a small and delic but very nple pnlse-meter on all these occasions , not liking to interfere overmuch with my .
I , however , used them at the , at at Oct. 20 , .\mdash ; Silver .
, a fine large animal ; her bloodmate was a Common lnrge yrey lop-eared doe , about one-tenth hearier than the -grey .
, cross-circulation established , ) arcntly } ) erfect ; I mean the biug of the canula and artery rear o ious ; , felt and found the flow qnite good ; 1h , common to quite good , vice versu pool ; 1h , ditto ; I disconnected and cleaned and } cIots and nected .
This I repeated eral times ; there still much trouble a proper flow from silver to common grey , but common to silver was always good .
The operation continued till 1h I disconnected ; and as the silver-grey had received too much , I let hcr bleed to 4 drachms .
Oct. 27 , 1870.\mdash ; Silver-grey , moderate size ; her blood-mate was a Common , certainIy more than a tenth than the silver-grey .
There was some tronble with her , as the carotid was abtlormal , and three offshoots from it had to be tied before the canula could be inserted .
cross.circulation established , perfect pnlse , but silver to common the fullest ; , perfect ; , silv er to common perfect , vice versll rather poor ; 1h , ditto ; , commou to stopped ; I disconnected and cleaved and reconnected , and by 1h had reestablished } ) erfect crosscirculation ; at 1h I had stopped silver to common and made common to silver better ; got five minutes good flow , then repeated clennings and got three minutes more .
My estimate at the close of the } ) ttion that the silver-grey gave blood freely for thirtv-five minutes , aod received it freely for about the same time .
II .
Experiments ofcross-circulation on two bucks and two does of grey breed , reputed pure , and looking well-bred imnls , but .
to Mr. F. Galtou 's Experiments in Pangenesis .
[ Mar. 80 , show russet marks .
They were procured of Mr. Vipan , of , Cambridgeshire , and are of the Qame breed as those on which Mr. tlett made his well-known experiments ) the production of ( Proc. .
Soc. .
They are liable to throw " " Sandy Himalayas as I found myself , as Mr. Bartlett also found , and as Mr. Vipan informs me is the case .
I distinguish this breed by asterisks ) .
Oct. 6 , 18 .\mdash ; Silver-grey buck , , moderate size ; his blood-mate was a Common grey buck , with some russet on his back and white on his belly ; he was the larger of the two animals .
, cross-circulation established , perfect ; , ditto , but silver to common , I think , a trifle the stronger ; , ditto ; 1h , common to silver very faint .
I stopped them and cleaned out twice and successively ; 1h , good , but common to was the least good ; 1h , disconnected .
My estimate was that there had been an equivalent to fully twenty-five minutes , and perhaps thirty minutes , of capital flow both ways .
Oct. 7 , 1870.\mdash ; Silver-grey buck , , moderate size ; his blood-mate was a Yellow buck , white belly , large .
, cross-circulation established ; , quite good ; good but not perfect ; good ; both stopped .
Then I made several disconnexions and cleanings , and obtained short periods of success : at I finally stopped .
My estimate was thirty minutes ' good running : the silver-grey received more than his share ; there was a slip in the operation , and five drachms of blood were lost between the rabbits ; so I did not care to let the silver-grey bleed more .
Oct. 6 , -grey doe , , moderate size ; her blood-mate was a Common grey doe , , cross-circulation established ; , excellent ; , excellent ; , excellent ; shortly after , something was twisted or other- wise vent vrong , and both stopped .
I had a good deal of trouble and but little further success .
Ten drachms of blood was lost between the rabbits ( partly by leakage of the canulae ) .
Oct. 7 , -grey , moderate size ; her blood-mate was a Yellow doe , dark about mouth , and also of moderate size .
I afterwards became convinced she was simply a sandy Himalaya .
At established cross-circulation ; , quite good ; , excellent , , excellent ; , ditto ; , ditto ; , ditto , then disconnected .
An accident occurred at the end , by which the silver-grey lost four drachms of blood .
APPENDIX II .
Description of the method of performing the operations .
It is essential to a fair chance of success that the operator should have a large and thriving stock of full-grown rabbits .
They cannot be proat will in the markct ; and young ones are so timid and tcnder thnt 1871 ] Mr. F. Galton 's Experiments in Pangenesis .
they not fit to be operated on .
The next essential point is an table , with ample and proper apparatus for holding the rabbits easily but rigidly .
It is most improper to subject a helpless animal to an operation without taking every precaution for its success , so to minimize the necessity for operating .
The chief hindrances to success are , entanglement of instruments , or the breaking loose of blood-vessels , both owing to an unexpected start ; also an animal will struggle violently , and become terrified if he is loosely held , hoping to get away , whilst if he is firmly secured he lies as though magnetized , without of fear or discomfort , and with his pulse and breathing perfectly Ilormal .
I regret extremely that , although I took pains to inquire , I did not at first hear of Czermak 's recently devised apparatus for holding the head .
I began by the old plan of putting the animals in a bag and holding them , which was very tisfactory .
Then I devised a plan of my own , which was good , but inferior to Czermak 's , and I therefore abstain from describing it .
The latter , with recent modifications , now be obtained at Mr. Hawkesley 's , 4 Blenheim Street , Bond Street , London , to whom , I should say , I have been greatly indebted for the care and thought he gave to successive and very numerous modifications of my instruments ( far more numerous than I care to describe ) .
A drawing of Czermak 's apparatus will be found in the 'Berichte der K. Sachs .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig , ' 1867 , p. 212 .
For injections , I used a five-drachm ebonite syringe , whose stem was boldly graduated to drachms .
The canula ( to be inserted into the veiu ) was sct.ewed into a light stopcock .
This was filled with water , which , so long as the cock was closed , did not run out for want of a vent-hole .
When it was thrust in the vein and the vein was tied round it , I held the syringe full of blood near the open end of the stopcock , drove out all air by allowing a few drops of blood to fall into its mouth , then pushed its nozzle firmly in , opened the cock and began to inject , steadily and slowly , at the rate of about one drachm in twenty seconds .
When the syringe was emptied , I turned the stopcock , withdrew it , rapidly filled it , emptied it and again filled it with warm water , and eturning to the canula with the same precautions as before , I threw in about ( Jrachm , to wash the blood out of the canula and adjacent vein .
I do not think I lost more than three ( or perhaps four ) rabbits by injecting air , although the remorals and replacements of the syringe were very numerous , often ten times in a operation of the kind .
My apparatus consisted of a zinc warm-water bath , represented on the left of the diagram ( p. 408 ) ; the vessels ) to right of it fitted into holes in it indicated by the ters .
A is the basin to catch the } ) blood ; F. Galton 's Experiments in Pangenesis .
[ Mar. 80 , it was whipped up by the whisk ; then poured into , which consists of a shoI t funnel with muslim below , resting in the top of a glass measure : when the blood had strained through , the funnel and muslin were set on the top of , to get them out of the way and , at the same tinle , to keep them warm for future use ; is the thermometer ; is a spill-case full of water to contain the syringe .
In addition to these , [ required alarge slop- pail , ajug of hot , and another of cold The sketch shows my latest outfit of basins and warm water for injecting .
It was not perfected until I nearly finished the experiments .
Scrupulous cleanliness is requisite , and great orderliness ; for the hazard lies , not in the performance of one difficult operation , but in making a mistake in some one of a great many easy operations .
The course of an operation was follows : secure the animal , ( 2 ) remove fur from neck , ( 3 ) anaesthetics , ( 4 ) expose jugular , ( 5 ) cut a slit in it and let the animal bleed as much as he can easily bear , about six drachms , ( 6 ) stop the flow with gentle pressure by spring forceps ; the animal was then left for a minute while 7 ) Dr. Murie and Mr. Fraser divided the throat of the supply-rabbit , I catching the blood in a warmed basin and whipping it up , to defibrinize it , as it fell .
I continued doing this while Dr. Murie was ( 8 ) iuserting the canula ; and when he was nearly ready he called to me , and I ( 9 ) filtered the blood , noting its amount , as a guide tu what I had to dispose of , ( 10 ) drew up a syringe full , ( 11 ) injected a convenient number of drachms or half drachms , indicated by the gradtns on the syringe-handle , ( 12 ) returned the overplus to the glass of supplyblood , 13 ) cleansed syringe and injected water , ( t4 ) let the rabbit bleed three or four drachms , \mdash ; and then recommenced the series .
I have not reinserted in description before and ( 13 ) what I previously described about turning the stopcock \amp ; c. ; nor have I spoken of the continual jott ng of notes in my case-book .
1871 .
] Nlr .
F. Galton 's Experiments in At the end of all , the vein tied .
It was , no doubt , the surest plan to avoid future hemorrhage , especially as the blood was ized ; but the rabbits were apt to sutfer from phlebitis , and I lost some thereby .
Owing to the extreme rapidity and stiffness of the coagulation of 's blood , it is quite easy to estimate the quantity that may have been spilt on the operating-table .
It has simply to be sponged into a measuring-glass .
Cross-ciroulation would be a very easy opel.ation in animals whose carotids were even a trifle larger than those of silver-grey rabbits ; but it difflcutt these , becituse the smallest canula which can be used with propriety only just be forced into the largest of them .
It is no use with small canulae ; in every case , a layer of fibrine is sure to line ; the bore is small this la.ver chokes it , while a layer of equal thickness in a larger tube leaves a free central passage .
I found inch in diameter of bore were worthless ; those I used were * inch .
If I were to operate again , I should not use silver-grey rabbits , on account of their smallness , but " " Belgian hare\ldquo ; rabbits .
When the canulae are brought home together , the wire hooks , in the sketch , secure them ; but I also slipped an India.rubber band over the tips of their handles .
The cut ends of the artery were held open stretched out a pair delicate curved forceps ( a suggestion due to Dr. Murie ) , and the canula was pressed in ( the shape of its mouth was the result of many trials and modifications ) , and a ligature was put on .
In the diagram , represents one pair of canulae , both opened and closed .
shows their position at the time of crossed circulation .
It will be observed that each artery requires four pieces of apparatus , .
two spring forceps to ] ) the blood , and two canulae .
Thus , when the throats were brought close together , to counect the arteries cross-wise , no less thau Dr. J. Stenhouse on Nitro-substitution [ Mar. 80 , separate pieces at work in a deep hoUow , close together , and attached to delicate itrteries , none of which could be permitted to twist or interfere with each other .
I ) a reduced sketch of one of the two vorks over which , as previously described , I suspended these instruments , with attached counterpoises , and so avoided all confusion .
Both pair of canulae and two pair of forceps are here represented ; they might be so arranged ; but it is better to divide the instrumettts , equally , between the two frames .
For removing clogs from the canulae , I tried a great many plans , none with as much success as I could wish .
I have , however , been able to extract clots from the artery itself , .
good quarter of an inch beyond the canulae , with a wire whose end had been cut with a file into a delicate solid corkscrew .
I washed out the canulae , before reconnecting , with a thin stream of water sent through the quill of a small bird , which I had fastened , by help of a short India-rubber tube , to my syringe .
The wounds require careful dressing , just like those of a man .
The rabbits bear the operations wonderfully well , and appear to suffer little or no pain when the influence of the anaesthetics happens to have left them temporarily sensible .
They are often quite frisky when released , and sometimes as though nothing whatever unusual had happened to them , all through the time of their recovery .
II .
Contributions to the History of Orcin.\mdash ; No. I. Nitro-substitution Compouuds of the Orcins\ldquo ; * .
By JOHN LL. D. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received March 1 , 1871 .
The action of nitric acid upon orciu has been studied by several chemists , but with comparatively negative results .
Schunck in this manner obtained a red resinous substance , which by further treatment with the acid was oxidized to oxalic acid ; and in 1864 De Luynes found that orcin dissolved in cooled fuming nitric acid without evolution of nitrous fumes , and that the addition of water precipitated a red colouring-matter ; the long-continued action of the vapour of fuming nitric acid on vdered orcin likewise produced a red dye apparently identical with the above .
These , however , were resinous uncrystallizable substances .
Although under ordinary circumstances only resinous products are obtained by treating orcin with nitnc acid , yet , when colourless orcin in fine Noticc with this title published in the 'Chemical News , ' Augnst 26 , 1870 .
Ann. Chem. .
vol. liv .
p. 270 .
Ibid. vol. cxxx .
p. 34 .

