V. " On the Mode in which Sonorous Undulationis are conducted from the Membrana Tympani to the Labyrinth , in the Human Ear .
" By JOSEPH TOYNBEE , Esq. , FRLS .
&amp;c. Received May 24 , 1859 .
The opinion usually entertained by physiologists is that two channels are requisite for the transmission of sonorous undulations from the membrana tympani to the labyrinth , viz. the air in the tympanic cavity which transmits the undulations to the membrane of the fenestra rotunda and the cochlea ; and secondly , the chain of ossicles which condu-ct them to the vestibule .
This opinion is , however , far from being universally received ; thus , one writer on the Physiology of Hearing contends that " ' the integrity of one fenestra may suffice for the exercise of bearing* ; " another expresses his conviction that " the transmission of sound cannot take place through the ossiculat ; " while Sir John Herschel , in speaking of the ossicles , says " they are so far from being essential to hearing , that when the tympanum is destroyed and the chain in consequence hangs loose , deafiness does not follow $ .
" The object of this paper is to dlecide by experiment how fari the ossicles are requisite for the performance of the function of hearing .
The subject is considered under two heads , viz. 1 .
Whether sonorous undulations from the external meatus can reach the labyrinth without having the ossicles for a mediLmln .
2 .
Whether any peculiarity in the conformation of the chain of ossicles precludes the passage of sonorous undulations through it .
1 .
Can sonorous undulations reach the labyrinth from the external meatus without the aid of the ossieles ?
This question has often been answered in the affirmative , apparently because it has been ascertained that in cases where two bones of the chain of ossicles have been removed by disease , the hearing power is but slightly diminished , In opposition to this view , it must , however , be remenmbered , that the absence of the stapes , or even its fixed condition ( anchylosis ) , is always followed by total or nearly total deafness ; and the following experiments , which demonlstrate the great facility with which sonorous undulationis pass from the air to a solid body , indicate that the stapes , even when isolated from the other bones of the chain , may still be a mediuim for the transmission of sound .
Experiment I.-Both ears having been closed , a piece of wood,.5 inches long and half an inch in diameter , was held between the teeth , and a vibratintg tuning-fork C ' having been broi ght within the eighth of an inch of its free extremity , the sound was heard distinctly , and it continued to be heard between five and six seconds .
Experiment 2.-One end of the piece of wood used in the previous experiment being pressed against the tragus of the onter ear , so as to close the external meatus withouit compressing the air contained withini it , a vibrating tuning-fork C ' placed within a quarter of an inch of its free extremity , was heard very distinctly at first , and it did not cease to be heard for fifteen seconds .
Experiment 3.-Three portions of wood , of the same length and thickness as that used in the previous experiments , were glued together so as to form a triangle somewhat of the shape of the stapes ; the base of this triangle being placed against the outer surface of the tragus , as in the previous experiment , the tuning-fork C ' vibrating within a quiarter of any inch from its apex was heard for twelve seconds .
Considering , as shownby the above experiments , the great facility with which sonorous undulations pass from the air to a solid body , it may , I think , be assumed that the undulations in the tympanic cavity may be conveyed to the stapes even when this bone is isolated from the rest of the chain , and conducted by it to the vestibule ; and when it is also considered that the absence of all the ossicles , or even a fixed condition of the stapes , is productive of deafness , there is strong evidence in favour of the opinion that 8ounds from the external meatus cannot reach the labyrinth without the mediumn of the os8ieles .
2 .
Is there anypeculiarity in the conformation of the chain of ossiles which precludes the _passage of sonorous undulations through it .
This question has also been answered in the affirmative , on accouniit of the various planes existing in the chain ; and secondlv , on account of the joints existing between the several bonies composing this chainw yOL .
Xs The following experiments refer to the influence of the varying plane of the bones forming the chain , and of its articulations , on the progress of sonorous undulations through it:1 .
Experiments illustrative of the influence of the variety of planes in the chain .
Experiment I.-Three pieces of wood , each 5 inches in length and half an inch thick , were glued together thus so as to represent the planes in which the malleus , incus , and stapes are arranged in the chain of ossicles , while three similar portions were glued end to end so as to form a straight rod .
A watch was placed in contact with one end of the straight rod , while the other was pressed gently against the tragus so as to shut the external meatus .
The result was that the watch was heard nearly as distinctly as when in contact with the ear .
When a similar experiment was performed with the angular portion of wood representing the chain of bones , the watch was also heard , but less distinctly than through the straight portion .
Experiment 2.-A tuning-fork C ' , being made to vibrate , was placed in contact with one extremity of the angular piece of wood , the other being placed against the tragus of the ear ; and as soon as the sound ceased to be heard , the straight portion was substituted , when the tuning-fork was againi heard , and it continued to be heard for about three seconds .
Ex !
periment 3.-A vibrating tuning-fork C ' was placed at one extremity of the angular piece of wood , the other extremity being held between the teeth ; the fork was at first heard very distinctly , and when its sound could no longer be distinguished , the straight piece was substituted , and it was again heard for the space of two seconids .
Experiment 4.-Instead of the horizontal portion of wood representing the stapes , three portions of the same size were made into a triangle , and this was glued to the anterior surface of the inferior extremity of the piece representing the incus , thus .
The previouis experiment was then repeated with the substitution of this apparatus for the angular one , and with nearly the same result , viz. the fork was heard through the straight piece about three seconds after it had ceased to be heard by the apparatus representing the chaini of bones .
Experiment 5.-A piece of very thin paper was gummed over the end of a glass tuLbe 6 inches in diameter ; to the outer surface of this paper was glued a model of the chain of ossicles similar to the one used in the previous experiment ; a vibrating tuning-fork C ' being placed in the interior of the tube and within a quarter of an inch of the paper , the sound was heard through the free end of the chain placed between the teeth for ten seconds ; when the sound ceased to be heard , a straight piece of wood was substituted , and the sound was not heard through it .
II .
Experiments illustrative of the influence of the articulations in the chain .
Experiment 1.-Three pieces of wood , each about 5 inches long and half an inch in thickness , were separated from each other by pieces of india-rubber as thick as ordinary writing-paper , and they were then fastened together so as to assume the angular form possessed by the chain of ossicles .
The tuning-fork C ' being placed at the free extremity of the chain , the other extremity being held between the teeth , it was found that the sound was heard as distinctly and for the same length of time , as when it passed through the chain formed of three portions glued together .
Experiment 2.-When eight layers of the india-rubber were placed between each piece of wood , there was still very little difference in the intensity of the sound from that observed when it passed through the portions glued together .
Experiment 3.-One , two , or three fingers having been placed between the first and second pieces of wood , and eight layers of india-rubber between the second and third , a very slight diminution in the intensity and duration of the sound was observed as compared with its passage through similar pieces when glued together .
Experiment 4.-The back of the hand was placed in contact with the teeth , and the end of the vibrating fork C ' was pressed against the palm ; the sound was heard very distinctly for several seconds ; and when it ceased to be heard , a piece of solid wood 3 inches long was substituted , through which the sound of the fork was again heard faintly for four seconds .
The inferenice from the two series of experiments above detailed is that neither the variation of the plane existing in the chaini of ossicles , nor the presence of the articulations , is sufficient to prevent the progress of sonorous undulations through this chain to the vestibule .
The experiments and observations detailed above lead to the following conclusions 1 .
That the commonly received opinion in favour of the sonorou s undulations passing to the vestibule through the chain of ossi les is correct .
2 .
That the stapes , when disconnected from the incus , can still conduct sonorous undulations to the vestibule from the air .
3 .
So far as our present experienee extetnds , it appears that in the human ear sound always travels to the labyrinth through two media , viz. through the air in the tympanic cavity to the cochlea , and through one or more of the ossicles to the vestibule .

