VI .
On a Substance from the Elm Tree , called Ulmin .
By James Smithson , Esq. F. R. S. Read December 1o , 1812 .
i. THE substance now denominated Ulmin was first made known by the celebrated Mr. KLAPROTH , to whom nearly every department of chemistry is under numerous and great obligations.* Ulmin has been ranked by Dr. THoMSON , in his System of Chemistry , as a distinct vegetable principle , on the ground of its possessing qualities totally peculiar and extraordinary .
It is said , that though in its original state easily soluble in water and wholly insoluble in alcohol and ether , it changes , when nitric , or oxymuriatic acid is poured into its solution , into a resinous substance no longer soluble in water , but soluble in alcohol , and this singular alteration is attributed to the union to it of a small portion of oxygen which it has acquired from these acids.* Being possessed of some of this substance which had been sent to me some years ago from Palermo , by the same person from whom Mr. KLAPROTH had received it , I became induced , by the foregoing account , to pay attention to it , and have observed facts which appear to warrant a different etiology of its phenomena , and opinion of its nature , from what has been given of them .
The ulmin made use of in the following experiments , had Dr. THOM-SN 's Syst. of Chem. Vol. IV .
p &lt; 696 .
Fourth edition .
been freed from the fragments of bark by solution in water and filtration , and recovered in a dry state by the evaporation of the solution on a water bath .
2 .
In lumps , ulmin appears black , but in thin pieces it is seen to be transparent , and of a deep red colour .
In a dilute state , solution of ulmin is yellow ; in a concentrated one , dark red , and not unlike blood .
When solution of ulmin dries , either spontaneously or by being heated , the ulmin divides into long narrow strips disposed in rays to the centre , which curl up and detach themselves from the vessel , and the fluid part seems to draw together , and becomes remarkably protuberant .
Solution of ulmin slowly and feebly restores the colour of turnsol paper reddened by an acid .
3 .
Dilute nitric acid being poured into a solution of ulmin , a copious precipitate immediately formed .
The mixture was thrown on a filter .
The matter which has been considered as a resin remained on the paper , and a clear yellow liquor came through .
This yellow solution , on evaporation , produced a number of prismatic crystals looking like nitrate of potash .
They were tinged yellow by some of the resin .
This mixture , heated in a gold dish , deflagrated with violence , and a large quantity of fixed alkali remained .
Dilute muriatic acid caused an exactly similar precipitation in solution of ulmin to nitric acid , and the precipitate was the same resin-like substance .
The filtered liquor afforded a quantity of saline matter , which , after being freed by ignition from a portion of dissolved resin , shot into pure white cubes of muriate of potash , as appeared by decomposing them by nitric acid .
Sulphuric , phosphoric , oxalic , tartaric , and citric acids , occasioned a similar precipitation in solution of ulmin .
Distilled vinegar produced no turbidaess in it ; and the mixture being exhaled to dryness , at a gentle heat , was found to be again wholly soluble in water .
But when the mixture was made to boil , some decomposition took place .
On adding muriatic acid to a mixture of solution of ulmin and distilled vinegar , a precipitate was produced , as in a mere solution in water .
The nitric and muriatic acids received a small quantity of lime and iron from the ulmin , and I believe also a little magnesia ; but these can be considered only as foreign admixtures , .
4 .
To acquire an idea of the quantity of potash in ulmin , 4 grains of ulmin were decomposed by nitric acid .
They afforded 2 4-grains of resin-like matter .
Thie nitrate of potash obtained was heated to deflagration , in small quarntities at a time , in a platina crucible to free it from resin .
The alkali produced was supersaturated with nitric acid , dried , and slightly fused .
It then weighed 1.9 grains , If we admit of nitrate of potash to be alkali , this will denote -s of potash in ulmin .
5 grains of ulmin were decomposed -by muriatic acid .
The resinousmatter weighed 3.3 grains , and the muriate of potash , after being ignited , dissolved away from the charcoal , dried , and again made red hot , weighed l14 grains .
If we suppose 3 of muriate of potash to be alkali , this will indicate I,2e of potash in ulmin .
2 grains of ulmin were made red hot in a gold crucible .
It then weighed only.o5 grain .
The form of the flakes was 66 in no degree altred , but they had acquired the blue and yellow colours of heated steel , of which they had likewise the metallic aspect and lustre , and could difficultly , if at all , have been distinguished bythe eye from heated steel-filings , or fragments of slender watth-springs .
Water immediately destroyed their metallic appearance .
Muriatic acid , poured on , caused a strong effervescence , and formed tmuriate of potash , which , freed from all charcoal , and made red hot , weighed o.6 grain , corresponding to of potash in ulmin .
These experiments assign about for the quantity of potash in ulmin , but as it is impossible to operate , on so small a scale , on such substances without loss , it is probable that it even exceeds this proportion .
5 .
The substance separated from ulmin by acids has the following qualities : It is very glossy , and has a resinous appearance .
In lumps it appears black , but in minute fragIon1ts it is found to be transparent , and of a garnet-red colour .
It burns with flame , and is reduced to white ashes Alcohol dissolves it , but only in very small quantity .
Water likewise dissolves it , but also only in very small quantity .
Acids cause a precipitate in this solution , though this resin-like matter appears neither to contain any alkali , nor to retain any of the acid by means of which it was obtained .
Its solution in water seems to redden turnsol paper .
Neither ammonia , nor carbonate of soda , promote its solution in cold water .
On adding a small quantity of potash to water in which it K,67 lies , it dissolves immediately and abundantly .
This solution has all the qualities of a solution of ulmin , and , on exhalation , leaves a matter precisely like it , which cracks and separates from the glass , and does not grow moist in the air , &amp;c. Hence it appears that ulmin is not a simple vegetable principle of anomalous qualities , but a combination with potash of a red , or more properly a high yellow matter , which , if not of a peculiar genus , seems rather more related to the extractives than to the resins .
English Ulmin .
I collected , from an elm tree in Kensington gardens , a small quantity of a black shining substance which looked like ulmin .
It was readily soluble in water , and the solution was in colour and appearance exactly similar to a solution of ulmin .
This solution , exhaled to a dry state on a water-bath , left a matter exactly like ulmin , and which cracked and divided as ulmin does , when dried in the same manner .
It did not , however , rise up from the watch-glass in long strips , like the Sicilian kind , but this may have been owing partly to its small quantity , which occasioned it to be spread very thin on the watch-glass , and partly to its containing a considerable excess of alkali , for it differed also from the Palermo ulmin by becoming soft in the air , and its solution strongly restored the blue colour of reddened turnsol paper .
Nitric acid , added to a filtered solution of this ulmin , immediately caused a precipitate in it , and the filtered solution , on evaporation , afforded numerous crystals of nitrate of potash .
68 This English ulmin made a considerable effervescence with acetous acid , which the Palermo ulmin had not been observed to do .
This acetous solution , in which the acid was in excess , was exhaled dry , and repeatedly washed with spirit of wine .
No part of the brown matter dissolved .
Water dissolved this brown residuum readily and entirely .
This solution did not sensibly restore the blue colour of reddened turnsol paper .
Exhaled to a dry state , the matter left did not separate from the watch-glass quite as freely as Palermo ulmin , which had been treated with acetous acid ; but it seemed no longer to grow moist in the air .
Redissolved in water , and nitric acid added , the mixture became thick from a copious precipitate .
The spirit of wine contained a quantity of acetate of potash .
The excess of alkali , in this English ulmin , may be owing to the tree from which it was collected having been affected with the disease , which produces the alkaline ulcer to which the elm is subject .
Sap of the Elmt Tree , Thinking that the production of ulmin by the plant might not be the consequence of disease , and that it might exist in the healthy sap , a bit of elm twig , gathered in the beginning of last July , was cut into thin slices and boiled in water .
It afforded a brown solution , like a solution of ulimin .
Exhaled to dryness , this solution left a dark brown substance , in appearance similar to ulmin , but on adding water to this dry mass , a large quantity of brown glutinous matter remained insAluble .
The mixture being thrown on a filter , a clear yellow liquor passed , which may have contained ulmin , but the quantity was too small to admit of satisfactory conclusions .
69 Perhaps older wood , the juice of which was more perfected , would aiford other results , since ulmin appears to be the product of old trees ; but the inquiry , being merely collateral to the object I had originally in view , was not persevered in .

