The reading of a paper , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity , " by Michael Faraday , Esq. F.R.S. was commenced .
December , 15 , 1831 .
JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK , Esq. M.A. , V.P. and Treasurer , in the Chair .
The reading of Mr. Faraday 's paper , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity , " was concluded .
This paper is divided into four parts : the first being on the Induction of Electric Currents ; the second , on the Evolution of Elec ?
tricity from6Magnetism ; the third , on a new Electrical Condition of Matter ; and the fourth , on Arago 's Magnetic Phenomenon .
The author defines electrical induction to be the power which electrical currents possess of inducing any particular state upon matter in their immediate neighbourhood .
A great length of copper wire , 1-:20th of an inch in diameter , was wound round a cylinder of wood so as to compose two helices , the coils of which were intermixed , but prevented from touching each other by interposed threads of twine and calico .
One helix was connected with a voltaic battery , and the other with a galvanometer .
No effect was perceived on the latter , with a battery of 10 plates : a slight effect only with one of 100 plates ; and a distinct deflection of the needle of the galvano ?
meter occurred when the contact was made with a battery of 120 plates .
While the contact was preserved , the needle returned to its natural position , and was unaffected by the electric current passing through the wire connected with the battery ; but on breaking the connexion , the needle of the galvanometer was again deflected , but in a direction contrary to that of its former deflection .
Hence it is inferred that the electric current sent by the battery through one wire , induced a similar current through the other wire , but only at the moment the contact was made ; and a current in the contrary direction when the passage of the electricity was suddenly interrupted .
These transitory currents , resembling waves , were found to be capable of magnetizing needles placed within the helix .
Collateral currents , either in the same or in opposite directions , exert no permanent inductive power on each other .
No other evidence of the electric action of these induced currents could be detected , such as the appearance of a spark , the ignition of fine wires , or of charcoal , impressions on the tongue , contractions in the muscles of frogs , or chemical decompositions .
Yet these induced currents were found to be capable of passing through fluids , when interposed to a small extent in the circuit .
Similar effects were apparently produced by the inductive influence of ordinary electricity directed through the first set of wires .
The second part of this paper contains the account of experiments in which the helix connected with the voltaic battery was wound round one side of an iron ring , welded from soft round bariron ; while another helix connected with agalvanometer was coiled round the opposite side of the ring .
The electrical indications obtained by this apparatus were much more considerable than in the former case , but were equally transitory , and were of opposite kinds on the interruption of the contacts with the battery .
By interposing charcoal points in the circuit of the induced helix , a minute spark was perceived whenever the contacts were made or broken off ; but no ignition of wires or other electric effects could be obtained .
Electric currents were also induced ina helix into which a soft iron cylinder was introduced , whenever that iron was rendered magne ?
tical by induction from magnets applied to its ends .
The sudden introduction or removal of a magnet , in the place of the iron cylin ?
der , produced similar effects on the helix .
In many of these experiments the author employed the large compound magnet constructed by Dr. Gowin Knight , and belonging to the Royal Society .
Similar effects were produced when the iron was surrounded by a piece of copper-plate wrapped once round it with its edges connected with the wires of the galvanometer .
Currents were induced on a wire coiled into a flat spiral , by bringing one of the poles of the powerful magnet of Dr. Knight opposite to its centre .
Even single wires brought near the poJe of this magnet had electric currents induced in them .
But all attempts to obtain chemical effects by these currents of electricity induced by magnetism were unsuccessful .
In the third part of the paper the author regards the condition in which a conducting wire exists while it is subject either to voltaelectric , or magneto-electric induction , as a peculiar one , which he designates by the term Electro-tonic state .
This peculiar condition shows no electrical effects while it continues , nor does it exert any sensible action on matter , or on other electrical currents , either of an attractive or repulsive kind ; nor does it tend either to accele ?
rate or to retard those currents .
In the fourth part of the paper the author reiates a great number of experiments , which concur in proving that when a piece of metal is moved in any particular direction , either in front of a single magnetic pole , or between the opposite poles of a horse-shoe magnet , electrical currents are developed which pass along the substance of the metal in a direction transverse to that of its own motion .
By the application of this principle , the author is enabled to explain the various phenomenon which take place in the experiments of Arago and others , where magnetic action appears to be developed by rotation ; and which have been erroneously attributed to simple magnetic induction , and to the time supposed to be required for the progress of that induction .
The electro-magnetic effect of the electric current induced in a conductor by a magnetic pole , in consequence of their relative motion , is such as tends continually to diminish that relative motion ; that is , to bring the moving bodies into the state of relative rest ; so that if the one be made to revolve by an extraneous force , the other will tend to revolve with it in the same direction , and with the same velocity .

