I. " On the frequent occurrence of Vegetable Parasites in the Hard Structures of Animals .
" By Professor A. K6LLIKER , of Wifrzburg .
Communicated by Dr. SHARFEY , Sec. R. S. Received May 30 , 1859 .
As far as I am aware , Quekett has been the first to point out that vegetable parasites , viz. Conferve , oCcur frequently in the skeleton of Corals ( Lectures on Histology , vol. ii p. 153 .
fig. 78 .
and p. 276 ) ; but although he mentions in the same place that the titbuli described by Carpenter in the shells of Bivalves have also a great resemblance with Conferva ?
, he did not venture any further step , and he adheres to the view of Carpenter , who regards themrl as a typical structure .
Somne years later , Rose ( " 'COn Parasitic Borings in Fossil FishScales , " Transactions of the Microscopical Society of London , vol. x. p. 7 , 1855 ) discovered a peculiar tubular structure in fossil fishscales , which he regarded as being occasioned by parasites , and possibly by Infusoria , but he was not able to give any good proof of this hypothesis .
The same must be said of E. Claparede ( Mull .
Archiv , 1857 , p. 119 ) , who found similar canals in the test of Neritina ft viatilis , and showed that they do not really belong to the shell , without being happier in determnining the nature of the parasite , only suggesting that it might possibly be a sponge .
Such was the state of things , when Prof. Wedl .
of Vienna and I , independently of each other , took uip the question .
The observations of Wedl , which concern only the parasites of the shells of Bivalves and Gasteropods , were communicated to the Vienna Academy on the 14th of October , 1858 , and are therefore previous to my own , which were presented to our Wiirzburg Society on the 14th of May , 1859 ; but I received Wedl 's memoir only on the 16th of May , a id may therefore say that my observations , which are also extended over many more groups of animals , were quite indepenident of those of the Austrian microscopist .
This being the case , it may be regarded as a good proof of the correctness of our observations and the truth of our conclusions , that we agree in the principal facts , there being only this discrepancy between us , that Wedl calls the parasites Conferv , whilst I regard them as Unicellular Fungi .
The botanists will decide this question better than we ; only I beg leave to say , that all the numerous parasites observed by myself were unicellular , and that the sporangia were quite of the same kind as those of unicellular fungi .
I may further add , that the frequent anastoinoses of the parasitic tubes remind one of the anastomoses observed in the mycelium of some unicellular fungi , whereas such connexions have not yet , so far as I know , been observed amongst the Confervee .
I now give a short enumeration of the animals in whose skeleton I observed these vegetable parasites .
1 .
spongice .
Two unidetermined species of sponges , which I got through the kindness of Mr. Bowerbalnk , show a great many parasitical tubes in the horny fibres of their skeleton .
These are most elegant and numerous in one species from Australia , in which the tuLbes form a superficial network in the otterinost parts of the horniy sponge-fibres and more straight canmls ia their iliterior , autd possess a great many round sporangia , which in some cases even showed young outgrowths in form of short ramifying tubes .
2 .
Foraminifera .
In an extensive collection of sections of Foraminifera which I owe to the kindness of my friend Prof. Carpenter , there were many generawhich siowed numerous filaments of furngi in their test itself , viz. Polystomella , Orbitolina , Heterostegina , Amphistegina , Calcarina , Alveolina , and 0 erculina .
The last genus shows best that these parasitic tubes , which sometimes are very large , are quite different from the two kinds of tubes rightly described by Carpenter as belonging to the test itself .
They generally run at right angles to the finer tubuli , and are easily distinguished from both kinds of typical tubuli by their irregular course , and by their frequent branching , and even anastomosing .
They are absent in many specimens of the above-named genera , and could not be found in Cycloclypeus , Nummulina , and Nonionina .
3 .
Corals .
All the genera of Corals which I investigated contained parasitical fungi , viz. Astrcea difusa , Porites clavaria , Tubipora musica , Corallium rubrum , Oculina di/ fusa , Oculina , sp. , Alloporina mirabilis , iladrepora cornuta , Lobalia prolifera , Millepora aleicornis , Fungia , sp. The fungi were most frequent in the genlera Tubipora , Astr a , Porites , and Oculina , the last three of which contained also many sporangia , which in the red coral were very scarce and often wanting .
4 .
Bivalves .
I agree with Wedl that the tubuli described by Carpenter in the shells of Bivalves are all parasites .
Many of them agree in every respect with those found in other hard structures of the Invertebrata , of whose parasitical nature there can be no doubt ; and even possess sporangia , as those of Thracia , Lima , Cleidothaerus , Anomia , Ostrea , Meleagrina .
With respect to those of the genera Lithodomus , Arca , Pectunculus , Nucula , Cardium , it is true that their straight course and more regular distribution speak in favour of their typical occurrence ; but as in some cases true parasites also are very regularly distributed through the shells , there can be no doubt that even these do not really belong to the structure of the shells .
i. Brachiopods .
The test of some Terebratulcve shows , besides the large well-known canals , miniute tubuli ruinning straight through the fibres .
A vertical section of Terebratula australis , which I got from Prof. Carpenter , showed that the minute canals referred to belong to a veoetable parasite of the same kind as those of the Bivalves .
6 .
Gastero ods .
Nearly all examined Gasteropods , viz. Ceritiiumn tu6erculatum , Aporrlais pes-Pelecatni , Turbo rugosus , Murex 6randaris , Miurex trunculus , Ilaliotis , Ve 'metus , Trochus , Littorina littorea , Tere6ra myurucs , Tritonium cretaceuni , contained vegetable parasites in their shells , and in some these were as numerous as in the Bivalves , and showed also sporangia .
Besides these fungi , the shell of Trochus also contained in its most suiperficial layers unicellular pyriform algae with green contents .
7 .
An nelids .
Even in this group the unicellular parasites were found , viz. in the calcareous tubes of two Ser ula , from the Scotch coast .
8 .
Cirrltieds .
The same parasites also occurred very numerously in the shells of a large Balanus .
On the other hand , the genera Diadema and Le as were free from them ; and with regard to the straight tuLbes of PoIlieipes described by Quekett , which also occur in Tubicinella , I am inelined to reckon them amongst the typical structures .
9 , Fishes .
The scales of Beryx ornatus , from the clay , contain very numerous and pretty parasitic structures , which almost totally agree with those figured by Rose in his fig. 5 .
They unidoubtedly also belong to the simplest form of fungi , but are of greater interest , inasmuch as they are fossil and seem to constitute a new genus .
I was not able to find parasites in any other fish-scales , notwithstanding that I examined scales of all living and many fossil species of Ganioids and many Teleostei .
These are the facts which I have been able to gather , up to this time .
I have no douLbt that all will ageee with me in regarding this question as one of great interest for the zoologist as well as for the botanist .
The former will now be obliged to stuidy these parasitical structures as thoroughly as possible , in order to decide which tubular structures of the hard tissues of animals are typical and which are not ; and for the botanist a new field of investigation is opened , which not only draws attentionl by the somewhat strange forms offered for investigation , but is also of great interest in a physiological point of view .
It seems to me probable that the parasites dissolve the carbonate of lime of the hard structures into which they penetrate , by means of exudation of carbonic acid , which secretion would seem to take place only at the growing ends of the fungial tubes , as they never lie in larger cavities , but are always closely surrounded by the calcareous mass .
In some cases , as in the horny fibres of sponges , , it seems probable that the parasites simply bore their canals by mechanical force , as is the case when vegetable parasites make their way through the cell-membranes of Co2Verv &amp; or other plants .
Besides this , it deserves also to be remembered that nearly all the parasites here spoken of occur in marine animals .
In concluding this inotice , I may further mention that these parasites afford an excellent means for demonstrating the doublerefracting power of the shells of the several genera mentioned in this communxication .
I was first struck with this fact in examining a horizontal section of Lima scabra obtained from Dr. Carpenter , and fin-ding that many tubuli appeared double .
In following this matter , it was easy to show that all the tubuli running in a certain direction , and in an oblique way through the section , appeared simple at the upper surface of it , and became double in the inferior layers , so that the distance of the two images increased with the shortening of the focus .
When the preparation was inverted , the reverse was the case .
The same phenomena as in Lima were also observed in Anomia , Ostrea , Mur-ex truncatus , Turbo rugosus , Tritonium c}retaceum , and Balanus , the shells of which animals have therefore all such a structure , that they refract the light in the same way as the well-known double-refracting crystals* .

