]\gt ; On the Perception of the Direction of Sound .
decimals , though little significance can be attached to the last figure .
Lines which are apparently diffuse are characterised by the letter In conclusion , I should like to express my great indebtedness to Sir William Bamsay for allowing me the use of the emanation .
and for purifying it on all occasiona My best thanks are also due to Dr. Gray for assisting in the purification of the emanation and the subsequent manipulation , and to Mr. Cameron for placing at my disposal all his original .
measurements .
On the Perception of the , Direction of Sound .
By LORD RAYLEIGH , O.M. , F.R.S. ( Received July 1 , 1909 .
) The nature of the clue by which we are able to pronounce whether a sound of low pitch reaches us from the right .
or from the left was long a mystery , seeing that in such cases the difference .
of intensibies at the two ears , used singly , is inappreciable .
By some special laboratory experiments conducted about three years ago , was able to show that the discrimination depends upon the phase-difference at the two ears , and that the sound is judged to be on that side where the phase is in advance .
When the pitch is higher ( much above ) no distinct lateral effect accompanies a phasedifference , and the discrimination of right and left in hearing undoubtedly depends upon intensities .
Commenting on these results , I remarked ( p. 224 ) : " " The conclusion , no longer to be resisted , that when a sound of low pitch reaches the two ears with approximately equal intensities , but with a phase-difference of a quarter of a period , we are able so easily to distinguish at which ear the phase is in advance , must have far-reaching consequences in the theory of audition .
It seems no longer possible to hold that the vibratory character of sound terminates at the outer ends of the n.erves along which the communication with the brain is established .
On the contrary , the processes in the nerve must themselves be vibratory , not , of course , in the gross mechanical sense , but with preservation of the period and retaining the characteristic of phase\mdash ; a view advocated by Rutherford , in opposition to Helmholtz , as long ago as 1886 In the ' Proceedings for January , 1908 , Profs .
Myers and Wilson detail ' Journal of Psychology , ' vol. 2 , October , 1908 .

