III .
" Experiments on Food ; its Destination and Uses .
" By WILLIAM S. SAVORY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received May 1 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments which are related in this paper refer to the destination of food and its uses .
Abundant , nay , superfluous evidence has been furnished to prove that no one principle of food will alone suffice for nutrition ; but clear and unequivocal evidence is still wanting to show how far each principle of food is essential to life and health , provided all else save that one be sufficiently supplied .
This is a very different question .
Again , ever since Liebig 's famous classification of food into plastic or nutritive and respiratory or calorifacient , some most important questions in connexion with it have engaged the attention of physiologists .
Amongst them are these : Is any food destined to the production of heat without being concerned in the repair of the tissues-that is , is any portion of the food directly burnt in the blood ?
Is any portion of albuminous food directly calorifacient , that is , burnt in the blood without forming tissue ?
This last question has more recently assumed another form , viz. what is the source of urea ?
Is it derived wholly from the metamorphosis of tissues , or directly to some extent from the blood ?
In other words , does any portion of nitrogenous food undergo a directly retrograde metamorphosis into urea , carbonic acid , and water ?
The experiments were performed upon rats* and a hawk .
The animals were fed upon different diets , and the experiments may be divided into three classes accordingly .
In one class the diet was a non-nitrogenous one , consisting of equal parts by weight of arrowroot , sago , tapioca , lard , and suet ; for this mixture was found upon analysis to yield only *22 per cent. of nitrogen .
In another class the diet was a nitrogenous one .
It consisted of lean veal from which every visible particle of fat had been carefully removed .
This yielded upon analysis only 1 55 per cent. of fat .
In the third class the diet was a mixed one .
It consisted of a combination of the two former diets .
The weight , temperature , and general .
condition of the animals were especially noticed , and in some cases the urine was collected and the amount of nitrogen it contained determined .
From these experiments the following conclusions are drawn : Nitrogenous materials are not only calorifacient , but , at least under some circumstances , sufficiently so to maintain alone the requisite temperature .
It is in the highest degree probable that , under certain circumstances , nitrogenous materials may prove directly calorifacient without forming tissue .
Non-nitrogenous substances are , at least under some circumstances , directly calorifacient without entering into the composition of tissue of any kind .
While non-nitrogenous food only is taken , all the nitrogen which is excreted in the urine , and more , may be accounted for by the disintegration of the original tissues , without assuming that any fraction is assimilated from any other source .
While life cannot be maintained without nitrogenous food , even though every other kind be abundantly supplied , death in this case being due to loss of tissue , life and even health and the normal temperature can be maintained , at least for a long period , upon a diet almost exclusively nitrogenous , with proper inorganic substances in which there exists only a small fraction of non-nitrogenous matter .
Such a minute proportion of fat must be but a poor representative of non-nitrogenous food .
Moreover in these experiments some of the rats sustained a loss of weight considerably above 50 per cent. The difference in this respect between former experiments and mine may be , perhaps , in some measure accounted for by considering the immediate cause of death in the former ones .
Chossat satisfactorily showed that the subjects of his experiments died from cold .
In my experiments , the animals being freely supplied with calorifacient food , this cause of death was for a while averted , so that time was allowed for a further disintegration of tissue .
When their temperature is maintained from external sources , or when they are freely supplied with calorifacient food , warm-blooded animals may die rather from waste than loss of temperature , as perhaps is the case with cold-blooded animals when they are starved .
Lastly , in these experiments the significant fact appeared , that while the weight , strength , and general condition of the animals varied very widely under the different diets to which they were subjected , no considerable fluctuation was observed in their temperature .
Even the slight variation from time to time recorded seemed rather to result from other causes than to depend directly on the food .

