XXVI .
" On the Oxidation and Disoxidation effected by the Alkaline Peroxides .
" By B. C. BRODIE , Esq. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Received June 19 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) A preliminary notice containing an abstract of the greater portion of this paper has already appeared* .
Having shown that the alkaline peroxides are capable of acting either as agents of oxidation or reduction , the author proceeds to connect the double function of this class of peroxides with the peculiar catalytic decompositions which they undergo .
It is shown that the catalytic decomposition may be regarded as a combination of these two actions , an oxidation and a reduction simultaneously occurring .
Thus in an alkaline solution of the peroxide of hydrogen , protoxide of manganese is oxidized to peroxide .
In the acid solution the peroxide of manganese is reduced to protoxide , the results being expressed in the following equations : Mn,20 +10= -1,2 + Mn2 0 , , Mn02 , + I12 2= Mn20+ , 0+ 02 , ; while the result of the catalytic decomposition effected by the peroxide of manganese is given in the equation derived from the above by elimination , 2H1 02=2H12 0+02 , the result being the same as though the peroxide of manganese were alternately reduced and oxidized by the alkaline peroxide .
We are thus enabled to analyse the catalytic action into its constituent decompositions .
That in numerous cases the catalytic change is brought about by the intervention of intermediate compounds , which are alternately formed and destroyed during the action , is shown in various examples .
For instance , the addition of a solution of peroxide of sodium to an excess of a solution of a protosalt of copper causes the formation of a precipitate of a yellow peroxide of copper .
If , on the other hand , a few drops of the salt of copper be added to an excess of the alkaline peroxide , the same yellow body is formed , but the whole of the peroxide is ultimately decomposed ; after the decomposition hydrated protoxide of copper remains .
Similar phenomena occur with an ammoniacal solution of the copper-salt .
If a few drops of this solution be added to an ammoniacal solution of the peroxide of hydrogen , the solution becomes of a yellow colour , and the catalytic action is set up .
This action may continue , in dilute solutions , for several hours ; during the whole of this time the yellow colour is permanent ; but ultimately , when the peroxide is entirely decomposed , the blue colour of the ammoniacal solution of the protoxide reappears .
The ammoniacal solution of the protoxide of copper decomposes the peroxide of hydrogen into water and oxygen , precisely as sulphuric acid decomposes alcohol into ether and water .
But in this case the colour of the solution gives actual evidence of the presence of the intermediate compound by the agency of which the catalytic action is effected , and which is formed , but disappears from the final result .

