December 15 , 1853 .
THOMAS BELL , Esq. , V.P. in the Chair .
The following communications were read:1 .
Extract of a Letter from Dr. Edward Vogel to Colonel Sabine , dated Mourzuk , Oct. 14 , 1853 .
" You will receive through the Foreign Office a packet of Astronomical , Meteorological , and Magnetical Observations , made on the way from Tripoli and since my arrival here .
My instruments are almost all in good conditicn , although their cases have split from the effects of heat and dryness , notwithstanding their double , and in some instances triple , leather protection .
I saw the great comet for the first time on August 23 , but others had seen it three or four days sooner .
Its nucleus was very bright , resembling a star of the first magnitude , with a distinctly defined disc of the apparent diameter of Jupiter .
The tail made an angle of 86 ?
or 87 ?
with the horizon , inclining to the north .
It was a single tail with almost precisely parallel sides .
Its length was 10 ?
on the 25th of August , 12 ?
on the 26th , and 15 ?
on the 27th and 29th of August .
I have seen here repeatedly the apparent fluctuation in the position of stars which is spoken of in the third volume of Cosmos , and have sent the particulars of my observations to Baron von Humboldt .
There is no regular rainy season at Mourzuk , but slight ; showers occur sometimes in the winter and spring , seldom in the autumn .
A heavy rain is considered a great calamity , as it destroys all the hou:es , which are built of mud dried in the sun .
It would likewise kill the date trees , by dissolving the salt which is in large quantities in the soil .
About twelve years ago , there perished above 10,000 date trees in the neighbourhood of Mourzuk , on account of a rain which continued for seven days .
The prevailing winds are south and east , the strongest generally west or north-west .
Twice or three times I have seen whirlwinds pass through the town , a phenomenon which was common in the deserts between Benioleed and Mourzuk .
All the whirlwinds I observed turned in the direction from east by north and west to south .
In December , and the first half of January the thermometer falls at sunrise ( atl Moorzuk ) as low as 42 ?
, and in places exposed to the wind water freezes during the night .
, At Sokna I found no one who could remember having seen snow ; but at Ghadamis snow was seen by Mr , F. Warrington on the 15th of January 1851 .
At Tripoli we had'heavy dews at night ; and I observed the same until we had passed a small chain of mountains fifteen miles north of Sokna ; from thence we had no dew , and it was even often impossible to get the dew-point with Daniell 's hyrometer .
In the desert the thermometer generally rose till 4 P.-M .
, from the sand ( which was sometimes heated to 140 ?
at 1 P.M. ) giving out its heat .
Earthquakes are unknown in Fezzan ; slight shocks are sometimes felt at Benioieed and Sokna , as was the case the end of last May .
Shooting stars were observed in great quantities ( about forty an hour ) on the 7th , 8th , and 31st of July ; very few on the evenings of the 9th , O1th , and 1'th of August , averaging fifteen an hour , mostly coming from Cassiopea and Ursa Minor .
On the 10th , at 8 A.M. , I saw in ten minutes three shooting stars coming from a Cassiopese , and rising right upwards towards the zenith .
About 4-A.M .
on the 11lth , I observed in a quarter of an hour about twenty very bright ones in Pegasus and Aries .
Shooting stars were numerous also on the 1st , 2nd and 3rd of October .
"

