134 The Occlusion of the Residual Gas by the Glass Walls of Vacuum Tubes .
By A. A. Campbell S win ton .
( Communicated by Sir William Crookes , F.R.S. Received February 12 , \#151 ; Read February 28 , 1907 .
) Users of Crookes ' tubes for Rontgen ray purposes have for long been aware that , apparently owing to a change in vacuum , the tubes become " harder " with use , and that it becomes necessary in the case of old tubes to heat the glass in order to get the discharge to pass .
In a paper read before the Royal Society in April , 1899* the present writer pointed out that the vacuum actually increases in cathode ray tubes with use , even if repeated small doses of additional air be let in from time to time .
Yillard has also shown that the residual gas in a vacuum tube is driven into the glass , and that portions of the glass of a tube that has been used show bubbles if heated strongly .
Again , in a paper on the absorption of gas in a Crookes ' tube by Dr. R. S. Willows , f a number of experiments relating to this subject are recorded , including one by Professor J. J. Thomson , in which , after admitting small quantities of air and absorbing the same repeatedly , it was found that the weight of the tube had increased by the weight of the air that had been admitted , although after admission the discharge caused the pressure to fall so much that Rontgen rays were given off by the tube .
The present paper describes certain further investigations on this subject .
The tubes first experimented upon were some of those originally employed by the writer in 1898 and referred to in his above-mentioned paper .
Since that date they have been lying undisturbed and open to atmospheric pressure , so that the gas now found to be imprisoned in the glass must have been there for some nine years .
No note was taken in 1898 as to the amount of time that the tubes were used , but each was in operation for many hours and under extremely severe conditions , the alternating current employed having a volume of some 20 milli-amperes at about 8000 volts pressure .
The condition of the glass walls of these tubes is now found to be as * " On the Luminosity of the Rare Earths when heated in vacuo by means of Cathode ays , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 65 .
t ' Phil. Mag. , ' April , 1901 .
Occlusion of Gas by Glass Walls of Vacuum Tubes .
135 follows : When cleaned by rubbing they are quite transparent to casual inspection , though careful examination with the microscope shows that the inner surface of those portions that had been subjected to cathode ray bombardment are materially roughened .
When these portions of the glass are strongly heated in a blow-pipe flame , they immediately become clouded , the effect beiug due to quantities of minute spherical bubbles in the glass , which may clearly be seen with a microscope .
The bubbles vary to some extent in size , but on the average are about 0-01 mm. in diameter .
They are usually packed closely together in a single layer and are always very near the side of the glass that formed the inner surface of the tube .
On measuring the thickness of the glass with a micrometer gauge , dissolving the inner surface with hydrofluoric acid until the bubbles had just disappeared , and then again measuring the thickness , it w*as found that , after making allowance for the size of the bubbles , the centres of these bubbles were about 0*122 mm. from the inner surface of the glass .
A similar estimate was obtained by grinding the inner surface of the glass until the bubbles just disappeared and making micrometer measurements as before .
It would therefore appear that the particles of gas must have been shot into the glass to about the depth stated .
In a typical piece of glass the number of bubbles per square centimetre of glass was found to be about 625,000 , so that , allowing for the expansion of the gas on heating the glass up to redness , there was occluded about 0*000113 c.c. of gas at atmospheric pressure per square centimetre of glass , and as the amount of glass surface that was bombarded in each tube was about 400 sq .
cm .
, the total amount of gas at atmospheric pressure occluded in each tube is nearly 0*05 c.c. , apart from any further amount that may have escaped from the glass in the heating of the latter .
An interesting question arises as to whether the gas is merely mechanically mixed with the glass or whether there has been any chemical combination between the two .
In the latter case , it seemed unlikely that mere powdering of the glass would cause the gas to come out , while in the former case it seemed probable that powdering the glass would have this effect .
In order to test this , a number of pieces of the glass were placed in a chamber consisting of two slightly dished tinned plates some 15 cm .
in diameter , which were soldered together all round the edges , with a metal tube inserted , so as to be air-tight .
The chamber was connected with a mercury pump and a spectrum tube , and was then pumped until no electric discharge could be got to pass through the spectrum tube .
An anvil was then placed under the chamber and the latter was struck several blows with a hammer so as to powder the glass , when there was an immediate fall 136 Mr. A. A. C. Swinton .
Occlusion of the [ Feb. 12 , of vacuum , and on examination with a spectroscope the gas that had been evolved was found to be mainly hydrogen .
The chamber was then pumped out again , and on further blows being struck so as to powder more glass , similar results were obtained ; in fact , the process was repeated many times , the result being in each case to bring out more hydrogen .
It would appear , therefore , that the gas occluded in soda-glass vacuum tubes exhausted in the ordinary manner from air is almost entirely hydrogen , no doubt due to electrolysis of water vapour condensed on the walls of the tube prior to exhaustion , the oxygen of which is absorbed by oxidation of the aluminium electrodes .
In order , further , to determine whether the occlusion of gas in a vacuum tube is in any way due to chemical combination of the gas with the glass , or whether it is purely a case of the gas being driven into the glass and mechanically held there , a suggestion made to the writer by the Hon. E. J. Strutt was followed , and experiments were tried with helium .
A spherical tube of soda glass about 7 cm .
in diameter , with two electrodes consisting of aluminium plates , was employed .
The tube was first exhausted in the ordinary way from air until the vacuum was so high that the discharge would not pass , and then , by an arrangement of stop-cocks , a small quantity of helium was admitted .
The tube was then sparked and the vacuum was found to increase , showing that the helium was being absorbed .
Further small quantities of helium were admitted at intervals , the process being continued intermittently for 20 days , the total number of hours of sparking being about 90 , or 4| hours per day , and the number of admissions of helium about 700 , until about 1 c.c. of helium at atmospheric pressure had been absorbed .
During the process of sparking the tube gradually blackened , the deposit being afterwards ascertained to be aluminium from the electrodes .
There thus seemed some doubt as to whether the helium was being absorbed entirely by the glass or perhaps partly by the very thin coating of aluminium , which , by the time the cubic centimetre of helium had been absorbed , had become a perceptible mirror .
On breaking up the tube , however , it was found that whether the glass was heated without further treatment , or whether the mirror of aluminium was first dissolved off its surface with dilute nitric acid , a plentiful supply of bubbles was produced in the glass , showing that at any rate some portion of the helium had found its way into the latter .
In appearance the bubbles were very similar to those that had been found in the tubes that had occluded hydrogen , only , as a rule , the bubbles were more numerous and considerably smaller in diameter .
Furthermore , as a rule , they tended to be 1907 .
] Residual Gas by the Glass Walls of Vacuum Tubes .
137 gathered together in groups and were not evenly distributed over the glass as in the case of hydrogen .
Under these circumstances , it was very difficult to estimate the quantity of gas occluded in the glass .
It was certainly much less than in the case of hydrogen , and only a fraction of the 1 c.c. occluded altogether .
The remainder would seem not to have been driven far enough into the glass to form bubbles , but to have escaped from the surface on the glass being heated .
Similar experiments were made with the glass containing helium to those tried with the glass containing hydrogen , in the way of extracting the gas by powdering the glass in a vacuum chamber .
It was found impossible to get rid altogether of the hydrogen spectrum and other faint lines , due , no doubt , to impurities , but , on the glass being powdered , the helium spectrum was found to be clearly superposed .
This was equally the case when glass that was still coated with the aluminium deposit was used as with glass from which this deposit had been dissolved off .
Consequently , the occlusion appears to take place entirely in the glass .
Seeing that helium does not combine with anything at ordinary temperatures , and seeing further that it could be extracted from the glass by the mere mechanical powdering of the latter , it would appear that the occlusion is due to the mechanical driving of the gas into the glass and not to any chemical combination .
The writer is indebted to Mr. J. C. M. Stanton and Mr. K , C. Pierce for their assistance in carrying out the investigations .

