1888 .
] Colour Photometry .
XI .
\#171 ; Colour Photometry .
Part II .
The Measurement of Reflected Colours .
" By Capt. W. de W. Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. , and Major-General Festing , R.E. , F.R.S. Received May 3 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous paper we showed how the luminosity of different spectrum colours might he measured , and in the present paper we give a method of measuring the light of the spectrum reflected from coloured bodies such as pigments in terms of the light of the spectrum reflected from a white surface .
To effect this the first named of us devised a modification of our previous apparatus .
Nearly in contact with the collimating lens was placed a double image prism of Iceland spar , by which means two spectra were thrown on the focussiug screen of the camera ( which was arranged as described in the Bakerian Lecture for 1886 ) , each formed of the light which enters the slit .
The light was thus identical in both spectra .
The two spectra were separated by about of an inch when the adjustments were complete .
A slit cut in a card was passed through this spectrum to isolate any particular portion which might be required .
The rays coming from the uppermost spectrum were reflected by means of a small right-angled pi'ism in a direction nearly at right angles to the original direction on to another right-angled prism .
Both prisms were attached to the card .
From this last prism the rays fell on a lens and formed on a white screen an image of the face of the spectroscope prism in monochromatic light .
The ray of the same wave-length as that reflected from the upper spectrum passed through the lower half of the slit , and falling on another lens formed another image of the face of the prism , superposed over the first image .
A rod placed in front of the screen thus cast two shadows , one illuminated by monochromatic rays from the top spectrum , and the other by those from the bottom spectrum .
The illumination of the two shadows was equalised by means of rotating sectors which could be closed and opened at pleasure during the time of rotation .
The angle to which the sector required to be opened to establish equality of illumination of the two shadows gave the ratio of the brightness of the two spectra .
When proper adjustment , had been made the relative brightness was the same throughout the entire spectrum .
To measure the intensity of any ray reflected from a pigment , a paper was coated with it and placed adjacent to a white surface , and it was so arranged that one shadow of the rod fell on the coloured surface and the other on the white surface .
The illuminations were 238 Colour Photometry .
[ May 31 , then equalised by the sectors and the relative intensities of the two reflected rays calculated .
This was repeated throughout the spectrum .
Vermilion , emerald-green , and French ultramarine were first measured by the above method and then sectors of these colours prepared , which when rotated gave a grey matching a grey obtained by rotation of black and white .
The luminosity curves of these three colours were then calculated and reduced proportionally to the angle that each sector occupied in the disk .
The luminosity curve of the white was then reduced in a similar manner , and it was found that the sum of the luminosities of the three colours almost exactly equalled that of the white .
The same measurements were gone through with pale-yellow chrome and a French blue , which formed a grey on rotation , with like results .
It was further found that the sum of the intensities of vermilion , blue , and green varied at different parts of the spectrum , and the line joining them was not parallel to the straight line which represented white for all colours of the spectrum and which itself was parallel to the base .
Since a straight line parallel to the base indicated degraded white , it followed that if the intensity of the rays of the spectrum were reduced proportionally to the height of the ordinates above a line tangential to the curved line ( which represented the sum of the intensities of the three colours at the different parts of the spectrum ) and were recombined , a grey should result .
A method was devised of trying this , and the experiment proved that such was the case .
The same plan enabled the colour of any pigment to be reproduced from the spectrum on the screen .
The combination of colours to form a grey on rotation by a colourblind person was also tried , and after the curve of luminosity of the colours had been calculated and reduced according to the amount required in the disk , it was found that the sum of the areas of the curves was approximately equal to the white necessary to be added to a black disk to form a grey of equal intensity as perceived by him .
The spectrum intensity of gaslight in comparison with the electric light was also measured , and the amount of the different colours necessary to form a grey in this light was ascertained by experiment .
As before , it was found that the calculated luminosity of the colours was equal to the white which combined with black formed a grey of equal luminosity .
The question of the coloured light reflected from different metals was next considered , and the method of measuring it devised , as was also the method of measuring absorption spectra .
The luminosity curves obtained by the old method were compared with those obtained by the present method , and so close an agreement between them was found to exist , as to give a further confirmation that our former plan was accurate .
A number of pigments that can be used for 1888.1 Evolution of Gases from Homogeneous Liquids .
239 forming greys by rotation were measured , and the results tabulated in percentages of the spectrum of white light and on a wave-length scale .
III .
" The Conditions of the Evolution of Gases from Homogeneous Liquids .
" By V. H. Yeley , M.A. , University College , Oxford .
Communicated by A. Vernon Harcourt , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 5 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is conveniently divided into three parts .
In part ( i ) an account is given of the effect of finely divided particles on the rate of evolution of gases resulting from chemical changes ; in part ( ii ) the phenomenon of initial acceleration , as also the effect of variation of pressure on the evolution of gases , is discussed ; in part ( iii ) the case of the decomposition of formic acid into carbonic oxide and water is investigated under constant conditions , other than those of the mass of reacting substances and of temperature .
Part I.\#151 ; It is found that the addition of finely divided chemically inert particles increases the rate of evolution of gases from liquids in which they are being formed .
The effect of these particles on the following chemical changes is investigated : ( i ) the decomposition of formic acid yielding carbonic oxide ; ( ii ) the decomposition of ammonium nitrite in aqueous solution yielding nitrogen ; ( iii ) the reduction of nitric acid into nitric oxide by means of ferrous sulphate ; ( iv ) the decomposition of ammonium nitrate in a state of fusion producing nitrous oxide ; and ( v ) the decomposition of potassium chlorate in a state of fusion producing oxygen .
The finely divided substances used are pumice , silica , graphite , precipitated barium sulphate and glass-dust .
Part II.\#151 ; It is observed that , conditions of temperature remaining the same , the rate of evolution of a gas from a liquid is at first slow , then gradually increases until it reaches a maximum and for some time constant rate .
From this point the rate decreases proportionally to the diminution of mass .
This is observed in the cases of the decort\-position of formic acid , potassium ferrocyanide , and of oxalic acid by concentrated sulphuric acid , and in that of ammonium nitrate .
It has previously been observed in the case of the decomposition of ammonium - nitrite in aqueous solution .
The same phenomenon repeats itself when the temperature is temporarily lowered and then raised to its former point , and also to a more marked degree when , temperature remaining the same , the superincumbent pressure is suddenly increased .
The reduction of pressure from one to a fraction of an atmosphere

