Of the Antiquity of the Transfusion of Blood from one Animal to another .
THere hath been of late some contest about the Origin of the Transfusion , the English first claiming it as a late Invention of theirs ; the French pretending thereupon , that it had been proposed among them ten years ago : after which , it was affirmed upon further investigation , by some ingenious persons in England , that there it had been known 30 years ago ; whereof the Publisher of these Tracts hath good proof in his hands .
But it seems , that an Italian Philosopher , in a certan Tract , entitled , Relatione dell'Esperience fat in Inghilterra , Francia &amp; Italia intornola Transfusione del Sangue , lately printed in Rome , ( for the notice whereof we are obliged to the Author of the Journal des Scavans ) undertakes to prove , that the Transfusion is yet of greater Antiquity , as having been known to Libavius above 50 .
years since .
For which , that Roman Author alleges a place out of the said Libavius ( in Defensione Syntagmatis Arcanorum Chymicorum contra Heningum Schneumannum , action 2 .
page .
8 .
Edit .
Francos .
A. 1615 .
) where the Transfusion is so plainly described , that one can hardly discourse of it with more cleerness , than there is done , in these words : Adsit ( saith Libavius l. c. ) Juvenis robustus , sanus , sanguine spirituoso plenus : Adstet exhaustus viribus , tenuis , macilentus , vix animam trahens .
Magister artis habeat tubulos argenteos inter se congruentes , aperiat arteriam robusti , &amp; tubulum inserat muniatque ; mox &amp; agroti arteriam sindat , &amp; tubulum faemineum infigat .
Jam duos tubulos sibi mutuo applicet , &amp; ex sano sanguis arterialis , calens &amp; spirituosus saliet in agrotum , unaque vitae fontem afferet omnemque languorem pellet .
This indeed is clear enough , and obliges us to aver a greater antiquity of this operation , than before we were aware of ; though'tis true , Libavius did not propose it but only to mock at it ( which is the common fate of new Inventions , in their Cradle ; ) besides that he contrives it with great danger , both to the Recipient and Emittent , by proposing to open Arteries in both ; which indeed may be practised upon Brutes , but ought by no means upon

