1874 ] On Dredgings and Deep-sea Soundings .
XII .
" On Dredgings and Deep-sea Soundings in the South Atlantic , in a Letter to Admiral Richards , C.B. , F.R.S. " By Prof. Wyville Thomson , LL. D. , P.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Staff on hoard H.M.S. ' Challenger/ Received May 25 , 1874 .
Melbourne , March 17 , 1874 Dear Admiral Richards , \#151 ; 1 have the pleasure of informing you that , during our voyage from the Cape of Good Hope to Australia , all the necessary observations in matters bearing upon my department have been made most successfully at nineteen principal stations , suitably distributed over the track , and including Marion Island , the neighbourhood of the Crozets , Kerguelen Island , and the Heard group .
After leaving the Cape several dredgings were taken a little to the southward , at depths from 100 to 150 fathoms .
Animal life was very abundant ; and the result was remarkable in this respect , that the general character of the fauna was very similar to that of the North Atlantic , many of the species even being identical with those on the coasts of Great Britain and Norway .
The first day 's dredging was in 1900 fathoms , 125 miles to the south-westward of Cape Agulhas ; it was not very successful .
Marion Island was visited for a few hours , and a considerable collection of plants , including nine flowering species , was made by Mr. Moseley .
These , along with collections from Kerguelen Island and from Yong Island , of the Heard group , are sent home with Mr. Moseley s notes , for Dr. Hooker 's information .
A shallow-water dredging near Marion Island gave a large number of species , again representing many of the northern types , but with a mixture of southern forms , such as many of the characteristic southern Bryozoa and the curious genus Serolis among Crustaceans .
Off Prince Edward 's Island , the dredge brought up many large and striking specimens of one or two species of Alcyonarian zoophytes , allied to and Isis .
The trawl was put down in 1375 fathoms on the 29th December , and in 1600 fathoms on the 30th , between Prince Edward 's Island and the Crozets .
The number of species taken in these two hauls was very large ; many of them belonged to especially interesting genera , and many were new* to science .
I may mention that_there occurred , with others , the well-known genera Euplectella , Hyalonem , and ; two entirely new genera of stalked Crinoids belonging to the Apio-crinidse ; Pourtalesia ; several Spatangoids new to science ( allied to the extinct genus Ananchytes ) ; Sdlenia ; several remarkable Crustaceans ; and a few fish .
We were unfortunately unable to land on Possession Island on account VOL. XXII .
2 K Prof. W. Thomson on [ June 18 , of the weather ; but we dredged in 210 fathoms and 550 fathoms , about 18 miles to the S.W. of the island , with a satisfactory result .
We reached Kerguelen Island on the 7th of January , and remained there until the 1st of February .
During that time Dr. v. Willemoes-Suhm was chiefly occupied in working out the land-fauna , Mr. Moseley collected the plants , Mr. Buchanan made observations on the geology of those parts of the island which we visited , and Mr. Murray and I carried on the shallow-water dredging in the steam-pinnace .
Many observations were made , and large collections were stored in the different departments .
We detected at Kerguelen Island some peculiarities in the reproduction of several groups of marine invertebrates , and particularly in the Echino-dermata , which I have briefly described in a separate paper .
Two days before leaving Kerguelen Island , we trawled off the entrance of Christmas Harbour ; and the trawl-net came up , on one occasion , nearly filled with large cup-sponges belonging to the genus of Carter , and probably the species dredged by Sir James Clark Boss near the ice-barrier , Rossella antcirctica .
On the 2nd of February we dredged in 150 fathoms , 140 miles south of Kerguelen , and on the 7th of February off Yong Island , in both cases with success .
We reached Corinthian Bay , in Yong Island , on the evening of the 6th , and had made all arrangements for examining it , as far as possible , on the following day ; but , to our great disappointment , a sudden change of weather obliged us to put to sea .
Fortunately Mr. Moseley and Mr. Buchanan accompanied Captain Nares on shore for an hour or two on the evening of our arrival , and took the opportunity of collecting the plants and minerals within their reach .
A cast of the trawl taken in lat. 60 ' 62 ' .
S. , long .
80 ' 20 ' S. , at 1260 fathoms , was not very productive , only a few of the ordinary deep-sea forms having been procured .
Our most southerly station was on the 14th of February , lat. 65 ' 42 S. , long .
79 ' 49 ' E. The trawl brought up , from a depth of 1675 fathoms , a considerable number of animals , including Sponges , Alcyonarians , Eehinids , Bryozoa , and Crustacea , all much of the usual deep-sea character , although some of the species had not been previously observed .
On February 26th , in 1975 fathoms , Umbellulcirice , Rolothurice , and many examples of several species of the Awere procured ; and we found very much the same group of forms at 1900 fathoms on the 3rd of March .
On the 7th of March , in 1800 fathoms , there were many animal forms , particularly some remarkable starfishes , of a large size , of the genus Hymenaster ; and on the 13th of March , at a depth of 2600 fathoms , with a bottom-temperature of 0o,2 C. , were abundant , there were several starfishes and Actinice , and a very elegant little Brachiopod occurred attached to peculiar concretions of manganese which came up in numbers in the trawl .
1874 .
] Dredgings and Deep-sea .
425 In nine successful dredgings , at depths beyond 1000 fathoms , between the Cape and Australia:\#151 ; Sponges were met with on Anthozoa Octactinia . . . .
7 55 Polyactinia ... .
6 51 Crinoidea ... .
4 51 Asteroidea ... .
8 51 Ophiuridea ... .
9 55 Echinidea Holothuridea 8 55 Bryozoa 6 55 Tunicata 5 55 Sipunculacea ... .
3 55 Nematodes ... .
1 55 Annelida 8 51 ( Mgzostomum ) ... .
2 55 Bcdanoglossus . . . .
1 55 Cirripedia ... .
4 55 Ostracoda .
* 1 55 Isopoda 7 55 Amphipoda 3 55 Schizopoda 5 55 Decapoda Macrura ... .
6 55 Brachyura 2 55 Pycnogonida 2 55 Lamellibranchiata 5 55 Brachiopoda 2 51 Gasteropoda 4 55 Cephalopoda 3 55 Teleostei 6 55 It is of course impossible to determine the species with the books of reference at our command ; but many of them are new to science , and some are of great interest from their relation to groups supposed to be extinct .
This is particularly the case with the Echinodermata , which are here , as in the deep water in the north , a very prominent group .
During the present cruise special attention has been paid to the nature of the bottom , and to any facts which might throw light upon the source of its materials .
This department has been chiefly in the hands of Mr. Murray ; and I have pleasure in referring to the constant industry and care which he has devoted to the preparation , examination , and storing of samples .
I extract from Mr. Murray 's notes:\#151 ; " In the soundings about the Agulhas bank , in 100 to 150 fathoms , the bottom was of a greenish colour , and contained many crystalline park 2 420 Prof. W. Thomson on [ June 18 , tides ( some dark-coloured and some clear ) of Poraminifera , species of Orbulina , Globigerina , and Palvinulina , a pretty species of Planorbulina , Miliolina , Bulimina , and There were very few Diatoms .
" In the deep soundings and dredgings before reaching the Orozets , in 1900 , 1570 , and 1375 fathoms , the bottom was composed entirely of Orbulina , Globigerina , and Pulvinulina , the same species which we get on the surface , but all of a white colour and dead .
Of Foraminifera , which we have not got on the surface , I noticed one and one Polystomella , both dead .
Some Coccoliths and Khabdoliths were also found in the samples from these soundings .
On the whole , these bottoms were , I think , the purest carbonate of lime we have ever obtained .
When the soundings were placed in a bottle and shaken up with water , the whole looked like a quantity of sago .
The Pulvinulince were smaller than in the dredgings in the Atlantic .
We had no soundings between the Cro-zets and Kerguelen .
" The specimens of the bottom about Kerguelen were all from depths from 120 to 20 fathoms , and consisted usually of dark mud , with an offensive sulphurous smell .
Those obtained furthest from land were made up almost entirely of matted sponge-spicules .
In these soundings one species of Rotalina and one other Foraminifer occurred .
" At 150 fathoms , between Kerguelen and Heard Island , the bottom was composed of basaltic pebbles .
The bottom at Heard Island was much the same as at Kerguelen .
" The sample obtained from a depth of 1260 fathoms , south of Heard Island , was quite different from any thing we had previously obtained .
It was one mass of Diatoms , of many species ; and , mixed with these , a few small Globigerince and Kadiolarians , and a very few crystalline particles .
" The soundings and dredgings while we were among the ice in 1675 , 1800,1300 , and 1975 fathoms , gave another totally distinct deposit of yellowish clay , with pebbles and small stones , and a considerable admixture of Diatoms , Kadiolarians , and Globigerina ? .
The clay and pebbles were evidently a sediment from the melting icebegs , and the Diatoms , Kadiolarians , and Foraminifera were from the surface-waters .
" The bottom from 1950 fathoms , on our way to Australia from the Antarctic , was again exactly similar to that obtained in the 1260-fathoms sounding south of Heard Island .
The bottom at 1800 fathoms , a little further to the north ( lat. 50 ' 1 ' S. , long .
123 ' 4 ' E. ) , was again pure ' Globigerina-ooze , ' composed of Orbulinc and " The bottom at 2150 fathoms ( lat. 47 ' 25 ' S. , long .
130 ' 32 ' E. ) was similar to the last , with a reddish tinge ; and that at 2600 fathoms ( lat. 42 ' 42 ' S. , long 134 ' 10 ' E. ) was reddish clay , the same which we got at like depths in the Atlantic , and contained manganese nodules and much decomposed Foraminifera .
" 1874 .
] Dredgings and Deep-sea Soundings .
Mr. Murray has been induced , by the observations which have been made in the Atlantic , to combine the use of the towing-net , at various depths from the surface to 150 fathoms , with the examination of the samples from the soundings .
And this double work has led him to a conclusion ( in which I am now forced entirely to concur , although it is certainly contrary to my former opinion ) that the bulk of the material of the bottom in deep water is , in all cases , derived from the surface .
Mr. Murray has demonstrated the presence of Glohig evince , Pidvinu-linee , and Orbulincethroughout all the upper layers of the sea over the whole of the area where the bottom consists of " ooze " or of the red clay produced by the decomposition of the shells of Foraminifera ; and their appearance when living on the surface is so totally different from that of the shells at the bottom , that it is impossible to doubt that the latter , even although they frequently contain organic matter , are all dead .
I mean this to refer only to the genera mentioned above , which practically form the ooze .
Many other Foraminifera undoubtedly live in comparatively small numbers , along with animals of higher groups , on the bottom .
In the extreme south the conditions were so severe as greatly to interfere with all work .
We had no arrangement for heating the work-rooms ; and at a temperature which averaged for some days 25 ' F. , the instruments became so cold that it was unpleasant to handle them , and the vapour of the breath condensed and froze at once upon glass and brass work .
Dredging at the considerable depths which we found near the Antarctic Circle became a severe and somewhat critical operation , the gear being stiffened and otherwise affected by the cold , and we could not repeat it often .
The evening of the 23rd of February was remarkably fine and calm , and it was arranged to dredge on the following morning .
The weather changed somewhat during the night , and the wind rose .
Captain IN ares was , however , most anxious to carry out our object , and the dredge was put over at 5 am .
We were surrounded by icebergs , the wind continued to rise , and a thick snow-storm came on from the south-east .
After a time of some anxiety the dredge was got in all right ; but , to our great disappointment , it was empty , \#151 ; probably the drift of the ship and the motion had prevented its reaching the bottom .
In the mean time the wind had risen to a whole gale ( force=10 in the squalls ) , the thermometer fell to 21'*5 F. , the snow drove in a dry blinding cloud of exquisite .
star-like crystals , which burned the skin as if they had been red-hot , and we were not sorry to be able to retire from the dredging-bridge .
Careful observations on temperature are already in your hands , reported by Captain Nares .
The specific gravity of the water has been taken daily by Mr. Buchanan ; and , during the trip , Mr. Buchanan has determined the amount of carbonic acid in 24 different samples\#151 ; 15 from the surface , 428 On Dredgings and Deep-Sea Soundings .
[ June 18 , 7 from the bottom , and 2 from intermediate depths .
The smallest amount of carbonic acid was found in surface-water on the 27th January , near Kerguelen ; it amounted to 0-0373 gramme per litre .
The largest amount , 0-0829 gramme per litre , was found in bottom-water on the 14th February , when close to the Artarctic ice .
About the same latitude the amount of carbonic acid in surface-water rose to the unusual amount of 0-0656 gramme per litre ; in all other latitudes it ranged between 0-044 and 0-054 gramme per litre .
From the greater number of these samples the oxygen and nitrogen were extracted , and sealed up in tubes .
The considerations connected with the distribution of temperature and specific gravity in these southern waters are so very complicated , that I prefer postponing any general resume of the results until there has been time for full consideration .
While we were among the ice all possible observations were made on the structure and composition of icebergs .
We only regretted greatly that we had no opportunity of watching their birth , or of observing the continuous ice-barrier from which most of them have the appearance of having been detached .
The berg- and floe-ice was examined with the microscope , and found to contain the usual Diatoms .
Careful drawings of the different forms of icebergs , of the positions which they assume in melting , and of their intimate structure were made by Mr. Wild , and instantaneous photographs of several were taken from the ship .
Upwards of 15,000 observations in meteorology have been recorded during the trip to the south .
Most of these have already been tabulated and reduced to curves , and otherwise arranged for reference in considering the questions of climate on which they bear .
Many specimens in natural history have been stored in about seventy packing-cases and casks , containing , besides dried specimens , upwards of 500 store-bottles and jars of specimens in spirit .
I need only further add that , so far as I am able to judge , the expedition is fulfilling the object for which it was sent out .
The naval and the civilian staff seem actuated by one wish to do the utmost in their power , and certainly a large amount of material is being accumulated .
The experiences of the last three months have of course been somewhat trying to those of us who wrere not accustomed to a sea-life ; but the health of the whole party has been excellent .
There has been so much to do that there has been little time for weariness ; and the arrangements continue to work in a pleasant and satisfactory way .
( .Signed ) Chakles Wyvilee Thomson- .

