1880 .
] Prof. Owen .
On the Ova of Echidna liystrix .
407 the small intestine is independent of the relative frequency either of the glands of Lieberkiihn , or of those of Brunner , but appears to be correlative with the distribution of Peyer 's glands .
( 8 .
) In the transition from colloidal starch to readily diffusible and easily assimilated dextrose , the actions of the pancreas and of the Peyer 's glands are mutually dependent and complementary .
The pancreas readily breaks down the starch to maltose , but is capable only of a very slow conversion of the resulting maltose to dextrose .
The Peyer 's glands on the other hand , whilst almost powerless upon starch itself , take up the work at a point where the pancreatic juice almost ceases to act , and so complete the conversion of starch into dextrose .
Y. " On the Ova of the Echidna kystrive .
" By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 26 .
1880 .
( Abstract .
) The present communication carries forward the subject of mono-trematous generation to a stage beyond those detailed in vols .
124 ( 1834 ) , p. 555 , and 155 ( 1865 ) , p. 671 , of the " Philosophical Transactions , " and relates to the discovery of ova in the right uterus of a female Echidna hystrix , killed 14th September , 1879 , and in the left uterus of one killed 30th August , 1879 , at Towoomba , Queensland .
These , with other specimens , killed between 30th August and 10th October , were transmitted to the author by Geo. Fred .
Bennett , Esq. , Corresponding Member of Zoological Society of London , and were received in February , 1880 .
In the largest ovum the first fission of the germ mass , corresponding to that described by Martin Barry and Bischolf in the rabbit 's ovum , had commenced but was not completed .
In other respects the ova of Echidna closely correspond with those of the Ornithorhynchusdescribed and figured in the volume above cited , p. 555 , Plate XXY , figs. 3-7 .
No further progress in embryonal development was detected ; but the fission-stage strengthens the conclusion , previously arrived at , of the viviparity of the Monotremata .
The functional equality of both uteri in the genus Echidna corresponds with the equal development of the right with left female organs , in which it differs anatomically from the The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , May 27th .

