260 Dr. F. W. Pavy o [ Jan. 16 , in hyaline cartilage , whether the latter existed as a normal structure , Or as a pathological growth .
They further show that , taken alone , carmine or eosin staining should not be held as conclusive evidence of the existence or limits of cellular protoplasm in any animal tissue , j EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE .
( All the figures are drawn by camera lucida 5 magnifying power x 2G0 .
) Hyaline Cartilage .
Figure 11 .
The normal structure of hyaline cartilage .
Purpurine .
Figure 12 .
Isolated cells .
Osmic acid .
Figure 13 .
Isolated nuclei adherent to portions of cartilage substance , simulating branched cells with fibre-processes .
Bichromate of potash ; logwood .
1 Figure 14 .
Stained substance in the cartilage simulating branched cellular protoplasm .
Bichromate of potash ; eosin .
Figure 15 .
Fragments of cartilage substance separated by needles .
Purpurine .
3 III .
" Volumetric Estimation of Sugar by an Ammoniated Cupric Test giving Reduction without Precipitation .
" By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received December 5 , 1878 .
To be able to effect the quantitative determination of a body with accuracy and facility is an important matter looked at in relation to the study of its bearings .
In the case of sugar there are no reliable means of precipitating and weighing it , either alone or in combination , and thus in the chemical estimation of this principle an indirect method has to be resorted to .
The only property upon which dependence can be placed , for the purpose of chemical quantitative analysis , is its reducing action , under the influence of heat , upon certain metallic oxides , and that of copper is the one which general experience shows to answer best .
In the ordinary volumetric application of the copper test , the precipitation and diffusion of the reduced suboxide through the liquid interferes with the clear perception of the precise point of complete decoloration , and thus detracts from its delicacy .
For purposes where minute accuracy is of no moment , a sufficiently approximate result can be obtained , but for physiological investigation , and in other cases where precision is indispensable , the process is quite unfit for employment .
With the view of obtaining increased accuracy , chemists have had recourse to the plan of collecting the precipitate of reduced suboxide and weighing it as such or after reconversion into the oxide .
From the difficulty , however , that exists in procuring the metallic oxide in a pure and uniform state , and from the impossibility of completely freeing the filter paper used from adhering surplus copper solution , some uncertainty is given to the results obtained by this method .
T^B Volumetric Estimation of Sugar .
379 .
] Dviate the difficulty here presented , I suggested , in a communication ablished in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " for June , 1877 , iat the precipitated suboxide should be collected and dissolved , and ie copper subsequently thrown down by the agency of galvanic ction upon a platinum cylinder , as is now frequently done in the ssaying of copper ores .
The process has been found , as shown by the closeness observable in the results of counterpart analyses , to dmit of the greatest precision , and I have turned it to extensive ccount in some recent physiological investigations I have conducted , n its application to such a purpose , it may be held that time and abour should be considered as of no moment , but it frequently lappens that a more ready process of estimation is needed than the gravimetric supplies , and on this account a volumetric method , free rom the objection I have pointed out as belonging to the ordinary \gt ; lan , constitutes a desideratum .
A few years back Bernard introduced , for physiological purposes , a nodification of the ordinary volumetric process , which is attended with reduction and the non-precipitation of the reduced oxide .
The process involves the employment of a large quantity of caustic potash , md the presence in the product to be tested of extraneous organic matter .
Under these circumstances it happens that the reduced suboxide is held in solution instead of being allowed to fall , and thus decoloration without precipitation occurs and enables the point of disappearance of the colour of the test to be ascertained with precision .
Bernard , in his remarks upon the test , simply made mention of the fact that under these conditions , reduction without precipitation took place , but Dr. d'Arsonval* his at the College of France , refers the effect to the solvent influence of the extianeous organic matter in presence of the alkali .
Whilst engaged upon an inquiry into the merits of this test , the conclusion suggested itself to me that the agency preventing the deposition of the suboxide was the development of ammonia .
With an absolutely pure solution of sugar , such as may be obtained by inverting the ordinary crystallized cane sugar ( refined loaf sugar ) no amount of potash will hinder the instantaneous precipitation of the suboxide .
With commercial grape sugar , however , and in a still more marked manner with honey , interference with precipitation is temporarily exerted , and this , I am led to conclude , is due to the action of the potash in producing ammonia from the small quantity of nitrogenous organic matter incidentally piesent .
With this before me , the idea presented itself of resorting to the direct employment of ammonia for attaining the same result .
It is well known to chemists that ammonia is a powerful solvent of the suboxide of copper , leading to the production of a perfectly colourless * " Gazette Hebdomadaire de Medeeine et de Chirurgie , Sept. 14 , 18/ 7 , p. 4o4 .
Dr. F. W. Pavy on [ Jan. 1G ?
liquid ; and this , from the facility with which it absorbs oxygen , quickly assumes a blue colour under exposure to air from the reconversion of the cuprous into the cupric oxide .
If ammonia be added to the ordinary Febling 's solution , a liquid is obtained which is rendered colourless by boiling with a sufficiency of sugar to effect the complete reduction of the cupric oxide present to the state of suboxide .
As the saccharine product is dropped in the blue colour gradually fades , wdthout any occurrence of precipitation to interfere with the perception of the precise moment when the point of complete decoloration is attained .
The ammonia exerts no interference with the process of reduction , but simply dissolves the reduced oxide , leading , when complete decoloration is effected , to the production of a perfectly colourless , limpid liquid .
Enough ammonia must be present to secure that the suboxide is held in solution , and precaution must be taken that whilst the analysis is being performed the reduced oxide does not become reconverted into the oxide by exposure to the air .
To obviate this the operation should be conducted in a flask instead of an open capsule .
The appliance that naturally suggests itself as most suitable for employment is a flask of about 80 cub. centims. capacity , with a cork inserted into the neck , through which a delivery tube from a Mohr 's burette , graduated in tenths of a cub. centim. , passes for dropping in the product to be examined .
Through the cork , also , there must be an exit tube for the escape of air and steam from the flask .
Should it be desired to avoid the impregnation of the surrounding atmosphere with ammonia , the exit tube may be connected by vulcanized tubing with a U-shaped tube containing fragments of pumice stone moistened with water or a weak acid .
The burette being fixed in the stand , the flask is allowed to hang suspended , so that there may be nothing to obstruct the full view of its contents .
The heat is applied by means of the flame of a spirit lamp , and the best position for watching the disappearance of colour is by the light reflected from a white background specially provided for the purpose .
It is convenient to have another burette , graduated in cub. centims. , and of 100 cub. centims. capacity , fixed in the stand for holding and delivering the ammoniated copper solution .
Messrs. Griffin , of Garrick Street , have constructed an arrangement adapted to meet the requirements .
I at first took it for granted that in the action occurring the same relation existed between the amount of oxide of copper reduced and that of sugar oxidised , as under the employment of the copper test in the ordinary way , viz. , that 5 atoms of oxide of copper were reduced by 1 atom of sugar , and the liquid I first employed was prepared by adding to 100 cub. centims. of Fehling 's solution 300 cub , centims. of strong solution of ammonia ( sp. gr. " 880 ) and 600 cub. centims. of distilled water .
The liquid thus made contained one-tenth of 179 .
] Volumetric Estimation of Sugar .
\gt ; Jhling 's solution , and if it comported itself in the same manner as t ?
latter , 10 cub. centims. of it would stand equivalent to '005 grm. ugrape sugar .
In working with this liquid the results obtained ur go accordant in relation to each other that I had no misgiving ; j-out its uniformity of action ; but I felt that before being definitely \gt ; fg3epted they ought to be checked against known amounts of sugar .
'ie accomplishment of this proceeding , however , is not altogether Unattended with difficulty , on account of the uncertainty of obtaining itj ; , ape sugar free from impurity and in a perfectly dried state .
The method I have adopted has been to operate upon weighed !
t\#171 ; I aounts of cane sugar and produce inversion by boiling with an acid .
I first found that the cane sugar , which is sold in coarse colourless Ijystals\#151 ; that which is known as " white crystal , " and used for oJ reetening coffee\#151 ; stood the test on examination for purity with Jaurent 's polarimeter .
A weighed quantity was taken , and , after sing inverted by boiling with hydrochloric acid , the acid neutralised , ad the liquid brought to a known volume , subjected to treatment ith the ammoniated copper liquid .
Repeated trials were made with arying quantities , and it was found that the results stood in har-tonious relation to each other , but that the amount of sugar indicated J as larger than the calculated amount of invert sugar from the eighed quantity of cane sugar taken .
At first I was at a loss for an xplanation of this result , but subsequent observation has revealed bat in the case of the ammoniated liquid , 6 atoms of oxide of copper re appropriated by 1 atom of sugar , instead of 5 , as in that of -1'ehling 's solution used in the ordinary way .
When the reckoning is aade upon this basis the results exactly correspond with the actual .mount of sugar known to be present .
Moreover , with solutions of .rdinary grape sugar and diabetic sugar , examined comparatively with fehling 's solution used in the ordinary way and the ammoniated ..opper liquid , the results exactly accord under the reckoning that 5 ttoms of oxide of copper are appropriate in the one case and 6 atoms n the other by 1 atom of sugar .
To be quite satisfied upon this point , a large number of observations mder varying conditions have been made , and whilst what I have stated holds good for the ammoniated copper liquid prepared from Fehling 's solution , without any further addition of alkali , and with the addition of potash to the extent of 1 grm. to 20 cub. centims. of the ammoniated test , yet a larger quantity of potash alters the action , and with 5 grms. , and anything beyond , the behaviour is brought to the same as that of Fehling 's solution used in the ordinary way , viz. , 5 atoms only of oxide of copper are appropriated by 1 atom of sugar .
With quantities of potash between the 1 and 5 grms. , the results stand between the 5 and 6 atoms of cupric oxide .
I may mention that observation has further shown that whilst On Volumetric Estimation of Sugar .
[ Jan. If glucose prepared from starch behaves like other varieties of grap sugar , there is an intermediate product formed before the completio of the process of conversion , which behaves in a different manne from invert sugar , grape sugar , and sugar of diabetes .
Estimation made with the ammoniated copper liquid coincide with those mad with Eehling 's solution without the presence of ammonia , and th addition of potash to the ammoniated liquid produces no modificatioi of the result .
In order that the ammoniated copper liquid may be brought to th same standard of sugar value as Fehling 's solution , and it is desirahl that this should be the case , the proportion of copper must be in creased so as to give 6 atoms against 5 .
By taking 120 cub. centims of Fehling 's solution , 300 cub. centims. of strong ammonia ( sp. gr '880 ) and making up to a litre with distilled water , the proper pro portion is obtained , and the ammoniated liquid gives results corrobo rated in accuracy by the balance , and coinciding with those obtainec by Fehling 's solution employed in the ordinary way .
As a minor point it may be remarked that the diluted state presented by the ammoniated liquid offers an advantage by diminishing the liability to error arising from any want of absolute precision ir measurement .
Twenty cub. centims. of the ammoniated copper solution , corresponding with '010 grm. sugar , having been run in from the burette containing the test , the flask is adapted to the cork attached to the delivery tube of the other burette containing the saccharine product for examination .
The flame of a spirit lamp is then applied underneath , and the contents of the flask brought to a state of ebullition and allowed to boil for a few minutes in order to get rid of the presence of air .
The saccharine product is now allowed to drop from the burette until the blue colour of the test is just removed , and a perfectly colourless limpid state produced .
On account of the ammoniated copper solution used being only equivalent to 2 cub. centims. of Fehling 's solution , it is necessary that the product to be examined should not be in too concentrated a form .
For delicate observation it is convenient that the dilution should be such as to require the employment of from about 10 to 20 cub. centims. to decolorize the 20 cub. centims. of the ammoniated copper solution .
The ammoniated copper solution enjoys the advantage of possessing a self-preservative power .
It is well known in the case of Fehling 's solution that , in the course of time , not only does the liquid become impaired in stability , but actually reduced in strength , by the spontaneous deposition of a certain amount of suboxide .
Not so , however , with the ammoniated liquid .
Here the conditions are such that under exposure to air the copper cannot fail to remain in solution and Hi | m [ liejs Ns ik feo ; jfl , 579 .
] Dr. Ord .
Structure of the Spinal Cord .
265 be maintained in a fully oxidized state .
A further advantage is ven by the influence of .
the presence of ammonia on the colour of ie test , for , in proportion to the height of colour of a volumetric Is0 is its degree of delicacy as a reagent , and the effect of the Idition of ammonia to the ordinary copper test is to considerably be icrease the blue colour belonging to it .
Seeing that the test here proposed acts with equal efficiency either i the presence or absence of extraneous organic matter , it is alike iapted for employment by the chemist , the physiologist , and the iedical practitioner in relation to diabetes .
V. " On the Effect of Strong Induction-Currents upon the Structure of the Spinal Cord .
" By William Miller Ord , M.D. , F.L.S. , Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians , Physician to St. Thomas 's Hospital .
Communicated by J. Simon , C.B. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received December 17,1878 .
( Abstract .
) I The results of a series of experiments are related .
They were founded upon considerations offered by chorea , tetanus , and similar liseases ; certain clinical facts and post-mortem observations having .
led the author to suppose that the occurrence of protoplasmic convulsion or spasm in the grey matter of the nervous system was consistent with the morbid appearances and with the history of cases .
The present series of observations was made upon adolescent dogs , i The spinal cord was the part selected for experiment .
The dogs were !
'i killed by chloroform , and the cord , rapidly exposed , was galvanized for different periods and in different directions .
In all cases parallel experiments were made with dogs of the same age and size , all points of the operation being carried out in the same way , save for the application of the galvanic currents .
The following effects were observed:\#151 ; 1 .
Broadening of the cord in parts through which currents had been passed longitudinally , narrowing where transverse currents had been applied .
2 .
In the narrowed parts a great diminution in the sectional area of the grey matter with retraction of the posterior horns .
3 .
In the same parts a remarkable dilatation of the central spinal canal , and an infiltration of myelin and leucocytes into the cavity .
4 .
The production of spaces around corpuscles , vessels , and nerve-bundles by the retraction of the protoplasmic matter .
Such spaces " j were often found filled with debris , containing coagula , myelin , and vacuoles .
They corresponded in appearance with the " perivascular erosions " of Dickinson .
1 VOL. XXVIII .
u v

