679 descent ; whilst , in a digester of thick copper , the different parts of the vessel , owing to the high conductivity of the metal , are maintained at so uniform a temperature as to prevent any such circulation of the liquid from taking place .
The body just described being regarded as a mere mixture of zincmethyl and ether , incapable of being separated on account of the close proximity of their boiling points , a more successful result was anticipated by mixing the iodide of methyl with methylic ether instead of vinic ether .
As methylic ether boils at --21 ?
C. , it was thought that no such difficulty of separation could arise ; the bodies employed would then , in fact , be exactly homologous with those so successfully used in the preparation of pure zincethyl on the large scale .
It was found , however , that although a large quantity of zincmethyl was produced , yet it was impossible to obtain it free from methylic ether .
A large portion of the product boiled at 43 ?
, a small residuum only distilling between this temperature and 48 ?
; both portions yielded , on analysis , results approaching the formula 92 13 7 , 2 H3 1^ 2(2 H3 } zn2 ) + C23 } 02 This result is , therefore , homologous with that obtained by the decomposition of iodide of methyl mixed with vinic ether .
In conclusion , the author states , that after an expenditure of many pounds of iodide of methyl , he has been unable to obtain even the smallest quantity of pure zincmethyl by the use of a copper digester , although a much larger product of the ethereal solution is obtained than in the corresponding preparation of zincethyl .
March 10 , 1859 .
Sir BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. Letter from JAMES P. MUIRHEAD , Esq. , to Sir BENJAMIN C. BnROIE , Bart. , Pres. R.S. , dated March 8 , 1859 , relating to the Discovery of the Composition of Water .
Communicated by Sir B. .
C BODY .
I have now , with your permission , to request you to lay before the 680 Royal Society the following brief remarks on the quotation from De Luc 's " Idees sir la Metorologie , " which has been referred to as fresh evidence in the controversy as to the discovery of the Composition of Water .
It is only at first sight , and when taken in an isolated form apart from the rest of De Luc 's narrative , that the passage in question could bear the interpretation now sought to be put upon it ; for Dr. Priestley 's communication of Cavendish 's experiment is said by De Luc to have been made " verse la fin de l'annee 1782 .
" But in the same section of the same volume he distinctly and positively says , that when in September [ 1783 ] he returned to Birmingham , " Nous ignorions , M. Watt et moi , que M. Cavendish eut eu des idees fort semblables aux siennes sir la Cause de ce Phenomene * .
" Now , we may well ask , how could this possibly have been the case with De Luc in 1783 , if Priestley 's communication to him in 1782 had extended to the conclusions , as well as to the experiments , of Cavendish ?
De Luc adds , on the next page of his work , that " Au mois de Juin " ( an evident mistake for Janvier ) , " 1784 , M. Cavendislh remit a la Societe Royale un Mimoire , dans lequel il joignit , au recit de ses Experiences de 1781 , sa theory sir la formation de l'Eaut .
" Here , for the first time in De Luc 's narrative ( with the exception of an allusion to Blagden 's statement at Paris in June 1783 ) , occurs a clear and distinct notice of Cavendish 's theory or conclusions , as distinguished from his experiments .
What M. De Luc 's opinion of the memoir was , in which those conclusions were announced , when he perused it in Aarch 1784 , and sent an analysis of it to Mr. Watt , is well known from his letters already published : .
We are thus enabled to set against the interpretation attempted to be put on the quotation from the " Mekteorologie , " the most conclusive of all testimony ; that , namely , of De Luc himself : for if he had intended to say that in the end of 1782 the conclusions of Cavendish had along with his experiment been communicated by Priestley , he could not possibly have gone on to say , as he has done a few pages later in the same volume , that in September 1783 he was ignorant of Cavendish having entertained any such ideas ; nor " ' Idees sir la Meteorologie , " tome ii .
p. 224 .
t Ibid. p. 225 .
681 would he have felt the astonishment , and entertained the suspicions which he so strongly expresses , on his perusal of Cavendish 's memoir in March 1784 .
De Luc 's account in the " Meteorologie , " it must also be observed , is not a contemporaneous one , published at the time of Priestley 's communication in 1782 , and before the conclusions of Watt were made known ; but is given from memory , at an interval of several years , when such a mistake as that of June for January shows how little it can be relied on .
I am , , &amp;c. JAS .
P. MUIRHEAD .
II .
" New Volatile Organic Acids , from the Berry of the M1ountain Ash .
" By A. W. HOPMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received February 3 , 1859 .
Whoever has been engaged in the preparation of malic acid from the juice of the unripe berries of the Mountain Ash ( Sorbus Aucuparia ) , cannot have failed to perceive the peculiar powerful odour evolved during the evaporation of the liquid partially saturated with lime .
The body to which this odour belongs was hitherto unknown , and only lately , my friend and former pupil , Dr. George Merck of Darmstadt , when preparing malic acid on a large scale , conceived the happy idea of evaporating the liquid in a distilling apparatus .
He thus obtained an acid distillate , from which he succeeded in separating an oily body possessed of acid properties .
To the kindness of Dr. Merck I am indebted for an appreciable quantity of this remarkable body , which has enabled me to examine its properties and establish its composition .
The preparation of the oil from the aqueous acid obtained by distilling the mother liquor of the bimalate of calcium , presents no difficulty .
The liquid is saturated with soda , evaporated and mixed with dilute sulphuric acid , when the oil rises as a brown layer to the surface of the liquid .
It is separated by ether , and after the volatilization of the latter , submitted to distillation .
The first portions of the distillate contain appreciable quantities of water ; the thermometer , however , rapidly rises above 200 ?
C. What now distils is a perfectly pure compound , which , on redistillation , exhibits a con-

