440 On the Toxic Action of Dilute Pure Sodium Chloride Solutions on the Meningococcus .
By Cresswell Shearer , M.D. , D.Se .
, F.R.S. , Military Hospital , Devonport .
( Received October 11 , 1916 .
) ( Report to the Medical Research Committee .
) [ Plate 15 .
] In experimenting during the past season with a large number of freshly isolated strains of the meningococcus , it was noticed that almost all of these were killed , when placed for a short time in dilute pure sodium chloride solutions .
This action of sodium chloride is most toxic to the meningococcus when the concentration of the salt is not below 085 per cent. , and not much above 09 per cent. Nad .
It was found that , freshly isolated meningococci were more vulnerable to-this action of Nad , , than old laboratory cultures .
While old laboratory cultures could sometimes resist the action of a pure 085 per cent. Nad for three or four hours , freshly isolated strains seldom resisted its action for more than 20 minutes .
It seemed remarkable that Nad .
should be toxic for the meningococcus in just that concentration which it is accustomed to in the fluids of the body .
It is strange that this germ should be so sensitive to the toxic action of sodium chloride , while at the same time it is able to resist for many hours the action of distilled water .
To demonstrate the toxic action of a physiological saline solution on the-meningococcus , it is highly important to observe certain conditions in performing the experiment .
It is essential , in the first place , that the NaCl used should be free from any impurity .
In the second place , the meningococci must be added to such a quantity of the saline solution that any traces of salts brought over with them from the culture medium will have no appreciable effect in antagonising the action of the Nad .
Thirdly , it is very important that the saline is not unduly diluted below its proper toxic strength by the addition of too large a quantity of the emulsion containing the germs .
In the fourth place , no agglutination of the germs into masses or clumps in the saline must take place .
The saline is unable to act on the germs in the interior of these clumps , so that all are killed .
Care must be taken to shake up the germs in the saline thoroughly , and avoid all clumping as much as possible .
I have found from a large number of experiments that one or two drops of an emulsion ( of 5000 million meningococci to the cubic centimetre in Action of Sodium Chloride Solutions on the Meningococcus .
441 distilled water ) is the proper quantity of emulsion to be added to 2 c.c. of 0-85 per cent , saline to effectively demonstrate the toxic action of pure NaCI on the meningococcus .
The toxic action of a 0*85 per cent. NaCI solution on the meningococcus can be readily antagonised and rendered harmless by the addition of a very small trace of some bivalent salt , such as CaCl2 , with or without the addition of a small quantity of KC1 .
This is clearly shown by the following experiment , which has been repeated many times .
A twenty-four-hour culture of a recently isolated strain of meningococcus .
" Lake " was emulsified in distilled water ; a fairly thick emulsion being prepared ( about 5000 million cocci to the cubic centimetre ) .
Into four sterile test-tubes , capable of being placed in a centrifuge , the following solutions , with 25 cu .
mm. of the meningococcus emulsion , were placed as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
2 c.c. sterile 0*85 per cent. NaCI .
2 .
2 c.c. " 0-85 " NaCI + 0-004 c.c. M/ 1 CaCl2 .
3 .
2 c.c. " 0-85 " NaCl+0-004 c.c. M/ 1 CaCl2 + 0-01 c.c. M/ 1 KC1 .
4 .
2 c.c. " distilled water .
Each tube was then thoroughly shaken to ensure thorough mixing of the solutions and the emulsion of cocci .
They were put in the incubator at 37 ' C. for an hour and a quarter .
They were then taken out and centrifuged hard for 15 minutes , and the deposit in each tube planted out separately , in sterile fashion , on a chocolate plate.* Fig. f shows the growth obtained on this plate after incubation for 24 hours at 37 ' C. An examination of fig. 1 shows that the meningococcus emulsion placed in the pure 0*85 per cent. NaCI , that is the deposit from the tube 1 , has failed to grow , and that this quarter of the plate ( marked N.S. ) , planted out with this deposit , is quite free of colonies .
The cocci have been killed by the saline .
In the opposite quadrant of the plate to this ( marked II on the margin of the plate ) , which has received a similar quantity of emulsion in 0 85 per cent. NaCI , with the addition of a trace of CaCL , a thick heavy growth of the meningococcus has taken place , covering the entire surface of this quarter of the plate .
The CaCl2 here has completely antagonised the toxic action of the .
NaCI .
In quadrant III , where the saline has received the same quantity of CaCl2 as II , but also a little KC1 , growth is still thicker ( not very well shown in the photograph ) .
In IV , where the germ was simply allowed to stand for an hour and a quarter in distilled water , growth is good , and the colonies cover closely the entire surface of this quarter of the plate .
* Crowe 's " chocolate " or blood-trypagar-glucose medium .
See 'Lancet , ' November 21 , 1915 .
442 Dr. C. Shearer .
On the Toxic Action of Dilute Pure This experiment clearly demonstrates the four following points:\#151 ; 1 .
The toxic action of a pure 0-85 per cent. Nad solution on the meningococcus .
2 .
The antagonistic action of a trace of CaCl2 solution over the toxic action of the Nad .
3 .
The accelerating action of KC1 , when added to Cad2 , in antagonising the toxic action of Nad .
4 .
The relatively harmless action of distilled water on the meningococcus .
So definite is this toxic action of 0'85 per cent. Nad solution on the meningococcus , that it was found possible to make use of it , very successfully , to destroy all meningococci outside or attached to the surface of leucocytes , by simply washing these several times and allowing them to stand for a few hours in a small bulk of pure saline.* There is no doubt that in this toxic action of dilute Nad solution on the meningococcus we are dealing with the poisonous action of the Na cation , so extensively investigated by Loeb , f Wasteneys , t Osterhout , S and others .
It is interesting to find that in the case of the meningococcus , as these investigators have found for other forms of life , this toxic action of Nad is confined to relatively dilute solutions .
In the case of the meningococcus , it is essential that the concentration of the Nad should not be increased much beyond 0*9 per cent. , as after this point its toxic action rapidly decreases .
The use of a 1*5 per\#171 ; cent. Nad solution ( one of the standard strengths of this salt employed in opsonic work ) is without almost any toxic action on the meningococcus , as shown by the following experiment:\#151 ; A fairly thick emulsion of a 24 hours ' culture of meningococcus " Pryor " was made ( about 5000 million cocci to the cubic centimetre ) .
To 4 c.c. of a pure 1*5 per cent. Nad solution , 25 cu .
mm. of this culture , in distilled water , was added , and thoroughly mixed .
To 4 c.c. of 0*85 per cent. Nad solution a similar quantity of the same emulsion was added and mixed .
The two solutions were placed in the incubator at 37 ' C. for an hour .
They were then taken out and centrifuged , and the deposit planted out separately on the surface of a chocolate plate , as shown in fig. 2 .
This figure shows the resulting growth obtained on this plate after 24 hours ' incubation at 37 ' C. The 0*85 per cent. Nad solution ( marked N in the plate ) has killed the meningococcus , while a good growth has been obtained on that half of * See paper by Shearer and Crow , " The Role of the Phagocyte in Cerebro-spinal Meningitis , " * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 89 , p. 422 ( 1916 ) .
+ Loeb , 4 Collected Papers , ' Part II , University of Chicago , 1906 .
f Loeb and Wasteneys , ' Journ. Bio .
Chem. , ' vol. 21 ( 1915 ) .
S Osterhout , ' Zeit .
f. Physkl .
Cheno .
, ' -vol .
70 ( 1910 ) .
Shearer Roy .
Soc. Proc. , , vol. 89 , PI , 1.6 % NaCl Sol .
m FIG. 1 .
0.85 % NaCl Sol .
FIG. 2 .
FIG. 3 .
Sodium Chloride Solutions on the Meningococcus .
443 the plate inoculated with a similar quantity of the same emulsion of the meningococcus , which had been exposed to the action of a 1/ 5 per cent. NaCl solution .
Thus , as Loeb has found , when the concentration of the NaCl solution increases the toxic action diminishes .
I should like to draw attention , finally , to an experiment made to determine the length of time the meningococcus may remain alive in pure distilled water , as compared with the time it can remain alive in a 0*85 per cent. NaCl solution .
Into 4 c.c. of distilled water and 4 c.c. of 0 85 per cent. NaCl solution respectively , 25 cu .
mm. of a meningococcus emulsion was placed .
The two solutions were incubated for 24 hours at 37 ' C. , centrifuged down for an hour , and planted out separately on a chocolate plate .
In fig. 3 is shown the resulting growth on this plate after 24 hours ' incubation at 37 ' C. The saline , as usual , has killed the germs , while a considerable number of those that have been exposed to the action of the distilled water for 24 hours have survived , and have given rise to an extensive growth .
This experiment Clearly demonstrates the power of the meningocoocus to resist the hypotonic action of distilled water for many hours .
This experiment has been repeated with a large number of different strains of the meningococcus , and it was found that considerable difference in this power of withstanding the action of distilled water was possessed by each strain .
It was the exception , however , to find a strain which did not survive the exposure to the action of distilled water at 37 ' C. for three hours .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 15 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Photograph of the growth obtained on a plate of Crowe 's chocolate medium after 24 hours ' incubation at 37 ' C. , showing the toxic action of a pure 0 85 per cent. NaCl solution on the meningococcus and the antagonistic action of a trace of CaCl2 .
I. Portion of plate planted out With emulsion of the meningococcus in 0*85 per cent. NaCl solution .
No growth whatever has taken place , all organisms being killed .
II .
Portion of plate planted out with a similar quantity of emulsion in 0*85 per cent. NaCl + a trace of CaCl2 ; here the CaCl2 has antagonised the toxic action of the NaCl , with a resulting thick growth of the meningococcus .
III .
Portion of plate planted out with a similar quantity of emulsion in 0*85 per cent. NaCl + CaCl2 + KCl , with a resulting thick heavy growth , more than in II .
IV .
Portion of plate planted out with a similar quantity of meningococcus emulsion which had been allowed to stand for 1^ hours in distilled water ; good growth .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Showing the toxic action of 0*85 NaCl solution on the meningococcus , in distinction to the relatively harmless action of a 1*5 per cent , solution of the same salt .
N. Normal saline solution .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Showing the action of distilled water in failing to kill the meningococcus after 24 hours .
D. Distilled water portion .
N.S. Saline portion of the plate ; all germs killed .

