Philos ~ Transact ~ No~ 267~ fig ~2 ~ fig ~1 ~ B EG ~ C C ~ D ~ ~ ~ ~ F C ~ ~ bb ~ A ~ ~B A ~ ~ fig : 3~ G F F F DD C H ~ B aaH HC a aHH GG EE ~ E A C F E I. An Account of an Extraordinary Aneurisma of the Arteria Aorta near to the Basis of the Heart , with the symptoms thereof ; Dissected by Mr Lafage , Surgeon , on the 10th of April , 1700 .
FIfteen years ago , one John Potin , French-man , then Servant to my Lord ~ , got a fall , which caused him a heavy pain in the Breast for a while .
A month after , he being a shooting , a Musquet did burst in his hands , which gave so violent a recoyie against his Right side , that it made him spit blood immediately , and continued for six months .
One year after he began to feel a pulsation on that side , and then ~ spit blood again , which continued ever since , but only in the Spring and the Fall .
He bled likewise by the Nose twice a year , for a month every time .
About four years ago a tumour began to appear under the Right Neeple , which growing by little and little , came at last to an extravagant bigness , and made him so uneasy in his breathing , that he begged to have it opened , which no body being willing to do , he used some emollient ointments upon it ( of his own accord ) which made the skin so thin , that at last it broke ; then he sent for Mr Lafage , in hopes of help , but at the same time the Aneurisma broke suddenly , so that when Mr Lafage came , he found him dead .
Hereupon he desired to open his Body , which being granted , he found first , that two of the Cartilages of the Ribs were worn off , by the continual nual pulsation of the tumour ; part of the Sternum bone was also worn off by the same cause .
The dilatation of the Artery began precisely on its Trunc next to the Heart , before it divides it self into the ascending and descending Truncs ; and tho there is ~~~ place , yet it did dilate it self so excessively , ~ the Bag did fill up the whole cavity of the Thorax on the right side ; and pressed the Lungs so much , that they were thereby much diminished : the Bag by the outside did adhere to the Mediasti~ to the Diaphragma , the Pleura , and to the Sternum in which it had digged two great holes , so strong was the Impulsion .
The inside of that Bag was lined almost all over with bony Laminae , some larger , some lesser , like so many shells .
The heart was mightily relaxed , insomuch that it was twice as large as it ought to be .
One thing that deserves a consideration is , that among the Fibres of the Heart there were some stones , like them which are sometimes found in the Lungs of Scrophulous Bodies .
Mr Lafage keeps all these parts ( taken out of the Body ) in his House , and will show them to those who may desire to see them .
Explanation of the Figure of the Aneurisma .
Fig. 1 .
A The Heart .
B The Aorta next to the Heart , where the Aneurisma began .
CC The same dilated making the the bag of the Aneurisma .
D The descending Aorta .
EE The two axillary Arteries .
FF The two Carotide Arteries .
Fig. 2 .
A The Heart .
bbb The Valvulae Semilunares in the bag .
C The Aorta descendens .
D The Orifice of the Aorta into the bag .
EE The two axillary Arteries .
F The Part of the bag where it broke .
1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , The bony Laminae in the inside of the bag .
Fig. 3 .
a , a , a , a , The Sternum bone .
B Its superior part .
C Its inferior part .
DD Its right side .
EE Its Left side in which the Cartilages of the Ribs GG were wanting .
HH The place of the same Bone worn off by the Aneurisma .

