January 25 , 1844 .
SIR J. W. LUBBOCK , Bart. , V.P. , in the Chair .
" A Description of an extensive Series of the Water Battery ; with an account of some Experiments made in order to test the relation of electrical and chemical action which takes place before and after completion of the Voltaic Circuit .
" By John P. Gassiot , Esq. , F.R.S. In a former paper , which was printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1839 , the author described a series of experiments made with some powerful voltaic batteries , for the purpose of determining the possibility of obtaining a spark before the completion of the circuit .
This anticipated effect was not , however , produced .
A short time after , Mr. Cross stated that he had succeeded in procuring a spark from a battery of 1626 cells of copper and zinc , acted upon by river water .
The author , pursuing his researches , constructed a battery consisting of 3520 pairs of copper and zinc cylinders , each pair being placed in a separate glass vessel , well covered with a coating of lac varnish , and insulated by being placed on slips of glass covered on both sides with a thick coating of lac .
The cells were placed on 44 separate oaken boards , also covered with lac varnish , each board carrying 80 cells , and sliding into a wooden frame , where they are further insulated by resting on pieces of thick plate-glass , similarly varnished .
In describing the effects which this apparatus has produced , the author endeavours to draw a distinction between the static and the dynamic effects of the developed electricity , and treats of each separately .
The conclusions to which he is led from the series of experiments narrated in this paper , are the following-1 .
The elements constituting the voltaic battery assume polar tension before the circuit is completed , even in a single cell ; this polar state being shown to exist by the action exerted on the electroscope being different at each polar extremity of the battery .
2 .
The tension , so produced , when exalted by a succession of series , is such , that a succession of sparks passes between the polar extremities of the battery before their actual contact .
3 .
The static effects precede , and are independent of the completion of the voltaic circuit , as well as of any perceptible development of chemical or dynamic action .
4 .
When the current is established , either by actual contact of the extremities , or merely by their approximation , so as to admit of a succession of sparks , its dynamic effects on the galvanometer are the same in both cases ; each spark producing a constant deflection of the needle .
It is hence inferred that the current , even when the circuit is closed , may be regarded as a series of discharges of electricity of tension , succeeding each other with infinite rapidity .
5 .
In a battery , of which the chemical elements have but a feeble mutual affinity , as is the case with the water battery , the tension rises very slowly .
6 .
In order to produce static effects in the voltaic battery , it is an indispensable requisite that the elements be such as are capable of combining by their chemical affinities : and the higher those affinities are exalted , the smaller is the number of parts composing the series requisite to exhibit the effects of tension .
The static effects elicited from a voltaic series , afford , therefore , direct evidence of the first step towards chemical combination , or dynamic action .
The author observes , in conclusion , that the chemical effects , when obtained in most of the experiments he has described in this paper , are very feeble ; but are precisely the same in character as those exhibited by the more powerful voltaic combinations ; and he thinks

