April 14 , 1853 .
COLONEL SABINE , R.A. , Treas .
&amp; V.P , , in the Chair .
The Right Honourable Viscount Palmerston was admitted into the Society .
A paper was read , entitled 6 ' On certain Functions of the Spinal Chord .
" By J. Lockhart Clark , Esq. Communicated by E. Solly , Esq. , F.R.S. Received March 15 .
These investigations , were undertaken by the author partly with the view of settling the long.agitated question whether all the roots of the spinal nerves terminate in the spinal chord , or whether any part of them ascend within the white or grey columns to the brain .
The preparations employed for this purpose were made according to the new method described in the author 's former communication , Phil. 'Trans .
1851 , Part 2 ; and the animals selected were the Ox , Calf , Cat , Rat , Mouse and Frog .
Of the spinal chord of the Cat , he has succeeded , after much trouble , in rendering transparent ' longitudinal sections - , ith of an inch in thickness , and more than two inches in length , including the roots of four or five pairs of nerves .
The principal results at which the author has arrived are as follows : That the posterior roots of the spinal nerves consist of three kinds ; two of these enter the posterior grey substance at right angles , and the third kind with different degrees of obliquity upwards , a small proportion of the latter taking a longitudinal course and becoming lost in the posterior white columns .
That in no instance were any of the fibres of the anterior roots seen to ascend with the anterior white columns , before they entered the grey substance .
That , besides the transverse bundles that form the anterior roots , a continuous system of exceedingly fine transverse fibres issue from the anterior grey substance and become lost as they proceed towards the su:rface of the chord .
That from the preceding facts , it may be inferred that nearly all , if not the whole of the fibres composing the roots of the spinal nerves proceed at once to the grey substance of the chord ; and that if any of them ascend directly to the brain , it must be those only of the posterior roots which run longitudinally in the posterior white colu mns That the commrn:unication between the sensorium and the spinal nerves is not established by the posterior white columns , but by the antero-lateral columns , especially the lateral .
That many of the fibres which belong respectively to the anterior and posterior roots in different regions of the chord , terminate there by forming with each other a series of loops of various sizes and lengths ; and that it is not improbable that some of them may reach even as far as the brain , as it is well known that the formation of loops is one mode in which nerve-fibres do terminate there .
A portion of the roots however may be connected with the vesicles of the chord , although ' the evidence of any such connection is very unsatisfactory .
That there are reasons for believing that the grey substance of the chord does not transmit impressions to and from the brain ; and that the fine longitudinal fibres described by Stilling have not been fourd by the author .
That there is a great correspondence in the fibrous arrangement between the grey substance of the chord and the chiasma of the optic nerves .
That the fact that the nerve-roots not only diverge both upwards and downwards to a considerable distance beyond their point of entrance , but intermingle also with each other in the most intricate manner , may explain how impressions made at one particular spot .
are communicated in different directions to distant parts of the chord , so as to excite a simultaneous and sympathetic action in classes of muscles which otherwise would appear unconnected .

