IV .
'"Brief sketch of the Anatomy of a new genus of pelagic Gasteropoda , named Jasonilla .
" By JOHN DENIS MACDONALD , Esq. , R.N. Communicated by Sir W. BURNETT , K.C.B. Received March 30 , 1855 .
This communication refers to a remarkable genus of pelagic Gasteropoda , characterized , like Macgillivraya and Cheletropis , by the presence of ciliated cephalic appendages , but having , as in the present instance , a beautifully transparent , cartilaginous and perfectly symmetrical shell .
The author has seen but one species , which was frequently taken between Port Jackson and the Isle of Pines .
The shell resembles that of Argonauta in shape , is less than oneeighth of an inch in diameter , and the little animal , when fully retracted , occupies but a small portion of its cavity .
The margin of the mantle is of considerable thickness , containing loosely-packed cells , similar to those of the middle or operculigerous lobe of many Pteropods .
About eight ciliated arms , identical in character with those of Macgillivraya , &amp;c. , encircle the head , including the mouth , which is furnished with two massive lateral jaws bearing sharp prominent dental processes on the anterior border , and with a pair of simple tentacula having a dark ocellus at the outer side of the base of each .
A well-formed foot arises by a narrow pedicle from the under surface of the body , immediately behind the ciliated collar .
The creeping disc is elongated in form , subquadrate in front , and tapers off gradually towards the posterior extremity .
The latter part , corresponding to the operculigerous lobe of other species , is speckled with little clusters of dark pigment-cells , disposed so much after the manner of those of the ciliated arms as to lead to the impression that it is one of the same series , or whorl of organs , to use botanical phraseology .
A pectinate gill extends beneath the mantle , along the anterior third of the dorsal region , lying , as in most cases , in advance of the heart .
The visceral mass of the body , though elongated , is but slightly curved upon itself , not exceeding half a turn .
The lobules of the liver , distended with large amber-coloured oilglobules , may be distinctly seen through the transparent outer envelope and shell .
Single spherical otolithes are contained in the acoustic sacs , and the lingual ribbon is lengthy and flexuous , presenting a row of uncini on each side , with a series of minute denticulations , pointing backwards on their anterior and posterior borders .
The uncini of opposite sides interlock with one another so closely as to conceal the rudimentary segments of the rachis almost completely .
The shell is cartilaginous , transparent , planorbicular , and perfectly symmetrical , presenting four rows of minute conical tuberculations on its convex or dorsal surface .
The gyri of the involute nucleus are so curved as to leave a central perforation ; the mouth of the tube encroaches considerably on the last whorl , and the outer lip is deeply notched between the two lateral rows of tubercles .
The author has named the species Jasonilla MILeayiana .
The paper is accompanied with illustrative figures .

