XIII .
" Explorations in Spitzbergen , undertaken by the Swedish Expedition in 1861 , with the view of ascertaining the practicability of the measurement of an Arc of the Meridian .
" By Dr. OTTO TORELL , Professor of Zoology in the University of Lund .
Communicated by the President .
Received June 2nd , 1863 .
In the year 1858 I made a voyage to Spitzbergen , in company with two other naturalists , in order to investigate the Natural History of that country .
I was thereby induced to study the history of the various Arctic expeditions that had gone out from England .
In Beechey 's and Barrow 's works I saw mentioned a suggestion which attracted my attention in a high degree .
A letter is there given from Captain Edward Sabine to Mr. Davies Gilbert , in which the writer , on his return from his celebrated Pendulum Expedition , proposes to explore Spitzbergen , with the view of ascertaining whether the measurement of an arc of the meridian could be carried out there* .
An arc from Ross Islet to Hope Island would comprise nearly 4- ?
of latitude-equivalent to an arc of 9 ?
in the mean latitude of France , and of 7 ?
in the mean latitude of Great Britain .
The difficulties opposed by climate and ground were not considered by Captain Sabine to be so great as not to be surmounted ; and he offered , in company with another officer and a sergeant of Artillery , to show either the feasibility or , once for all , the impossibility of the undertaking .
A special advantage is pointed out by Spitzbergen being divided into two nearly equal parts from north to south , thus very materially facilitating communications between the different angular points .
Admiral Beechey says that Captain Sabine 's plan was placed before the Royal Society in 1825 by Sir John Herschel , taken into consideration in the autumn of the same year , and warmly supported by Mr. Davies Gilbert , Sir I-Humphry Davy , the then President , and by other members of the Royal Society .
The reasons why it was not carried out are not mentioned ; but Sir John Herschel leaves us to infer that Captain Sabine was called upon to display his powers in another scientific undertaking of a more arduous though not less important kind .
This explanation appeared to be natural , and thus the whole matter was shelved for many years .
The plan in question seemed to me so simple and practical , and at the same time so useful in a scientific point of view , that I could not help espousing it with a very warm interest .
In the year 1860 , the Swedish government and Diet , as well as Prince Oscar , granted funds for a new scientific expedition to Spitzbergen .
Being placed at the head of this undertaking , in which a rather large number of scientific men were willing to take part , I did not fail to call the attention of the Academy of Sciences to the plan proposed by General Sabine in 1825 .
The Academy were alive to its importance ; and their two astronomical members , Professor Selander and Assessor Lindhagen , who had themselves taken part in the Swedish-Norwegian triangulation , considered that the explorations ought to be carried out , and for that purpose they issued the requisite directions to two of the participators in the expedition , Messrs. Duner and Chydenius .
To them it was confided to investigate whether suitable angular points could be found from the islands north of Spitzbergen to Hope Island in the South , either along the western coast of Spitzbergen or through iHinloopen Strait and Weide Jans Water , which nearly divide Spitzbergen into two from north to south .
One went on board the ship which , according to the plan , was to explore the north of Spitzbergen and Hinloopen Strait , and the other on board the other ship which was to explore the west of Spitzbergen and Weide Jans Water .
At the end of May 186 1 the two vessels reached Amsterdam Island , in nearly 80 ?
latitude ; and at the commencement of June they passed Verlegen Hook , and anchored in Treurenburg Bay , whence Parry , in 1827 , made his celebrated attempt to reach the North Pole .
But the polar ice immediately afterwards pressed against the coast , and imprisoned both vessels more than a month in Treurenburg Bay .
The pack was so close that no boat excursions of any extent could be made .
The explorations for survey were a good deal impeded by this circumstance ; for the investigation of the western coast of Spitzbergen could not be commenced until a much later period than intended .
The survey of Weide Jans Water could not be carried into effect , owing to drift ice , adverse winds , and calms .
Mr. Duner , to whom this undertaking was allotted , as well as the investigation of the practicability of the survey along the western coast of Spitzbergen , came to the conclusion that no impediments existed for carrying out the triangulation from Ross Islet to Amsterdam Island , but that the mountains surrounding Magdalena Bay are so steep and difficult or impossible of access , that the continuation of the survey southwards must be considered , if not absolutely impossible , at least so difficult and entailing such heavy expense , that its execution along that coast will probably never be carried into effect .
Mr. Chydenius , who was to explore the northern portion of the arc , presumed to be measurable from Ross Islet to Hope Island , was more fortunate in his work .
During sundry boat excursions and ascensions of many mountains from the northernmost part of Spitzbergen to the termination of Hinloopen Strait , he succeeded in completely solving the problem as to that part of Spitzbergen , comprising nearly the half of the arc to be measured .
The survey was carried out courageously and energetically under circumstances of frequent difficulty , as well in the drift ice as in crossing the glaciers of the interior .
The accompanying Ymap makes a detailed description unnecessary , and I therefore confine myself to stating that all the lines of the sights in the network marked with continuous lines are , with one single exception , observed , and that Mr. Chydenius has had opportunities of convincing himself that though not all the lines of the sights in the network marked with dotted lines are observed , yet nothing prevents the angular points connected by them from being seen one from the other .
The triangles connected by continuous lines of the sights are nine in number .
Their angles are computed by Mr. Chydenius in an accompanying Table .
All the angular points are selected on moderately high and accessible mountains , situated close to , or not very far from the coasts , and the distances between them are not greater than will admit of the signals being easily seen .
Mr. Chydenius found the ground , as well in Low Island as to the west of Treurenburg , to be favourable for measuring a base .
As the survey , so far as carried out , proves that , for executing the measurement of an arc of the meridian , no impediments exist which may not be overcome by courage and perseverance , there remains the question whether the part not yet explored may be expected to be equally favourable ; the reply to this cannot , of course , be fully given until a similar survey has been made of the still unknown portion ; there are , however , means of partially judging of the prospects of success .
Mr. Chydenius considers himself almost justified in stating with certainty that the mountains marked X and X on the map will be found to be visible from Weide Jans Water .
He is inclined to think that the easiest communication may be made through Lomme Bay .
The distance from I-inloopen Strait to Weide Jans Water cannot be great .
According to statements which , however , we were unable to verify , there is said to be a strait connecting these two sheets of water , and a vessel is reported to have sailed through it .
Mr. Lamont is also of opinion that Weide Jans Water is open to the north .
This , if found to be true , would tend greatly to facilitate the work .
It is also probable that the network can be drawn from the Waigat Islands at the southern embouchure of Hinloopen Strait to the Walter Thymen Bay , through the latter to Weide Jans Water , and further to Hope Island .
There still remains the question as to the facilities that the land on the two sides of Weide Jans Water may afford for the survey .
Those walrus-hunters whom I have interrogated regarding that part of the country , are unanimous in their opinion as to the mountains on the western side being similar to those on the west coast , that is to say , as inaccessible as possible .
But the country to the east of the said Water is described as a tableland , in which accessible mountains may be found in several places .
There are therefore well-founded reasons for thinking that the whole arc will be found measurable if the survey is continued .
Mr. Chydenius has offered to furnish the remaining part of the exploration .
The Swedish Academy of Sciences consider the completion of the survey so important , that they have petitioned Government to supply funds for carrying it into effect during the present or next year .
There is every probability that the money will be granted , and , if the result turn out as expected , that necessary steps will be taken for executing the measurement of the arc itself .
The Swedish Government has , at the instance of the Academy of Sciences , already furnished means for preliminary investigations in reference to another gecdetic enterprise , namely , for the Swedish share of the proposed large middle-European triangulation from Palermo to Trondhjem , and have asked the Estates for money for executing the measurement .
Should , then , the survey in Spitzbergen also be carried out , an important contribution will be made , not only to ascertain the compression of the globe in the vicinity of the North Pole , but also for the much-sought-after knowledge of the real form of the earth on different portions of its surface ; and the undertaking will to a certain degree complete the results both of the projected middle-European triangulation and of the Russo-Scandinavian already effected .
If the triangulation in question be executed , it will not be the only result arising from several years ' scientific labours in Spitzbergen .
It is superfluous here to allude to many investigations of importance which may be made ; it is sufficient to keep in mind the situation of Northern Spitzbergen , distant scarcely 10 ?
of latitude from the North Pole .
There are well-founded reasons for thinking that the execution of the measurement in question may be looked forward to .
And if we seek for the origin of the whole matter , we can trace it in Captain Sabine 's well-planned and lucidly explained project , which he submitted to the examination of the Royal Society in 1825 .

