2 .
&lt; Researches on the distribution of the Blood-vessels , &amp; c in the Lungs .
" By James Newton Heal , M.D. Communicated by J. Hodgson , Esq. , F.R.S. Received May 20 , 1853 .
After referring to the discrepancies in the opinions entertained by anatomical writers both with respect to the distribution and to the functions of the blood-vessels with which the lungs are supplied , the author states the leading features in which the observations made by him differ from those which have hitherto been published .
He finds that:1st .
The pulmonary artery makes no anastomosis whatever with any other artery , nor do its own branches anastomose together ; its branches go direct to the air-cells , and are there distributed , and terminate as arteries ; none of its branches go to any other tissues of the lungs besides the air-cells , except somre few which perforate the sub-pleural cellular tissue , and are distributed to the pleura ; some of these also cross the posterior mediastinum beneath the pleura , and reach the thoracic pleura .
2ndly .
The bronchial ( so called ) arteries have their own special distribution , which will be described further-on ; they do not supply , in the smallest degree , any portion of the bronchial mucous membrane , and they form no sort of communication , either with the pulmonary arteries or veins , except as supplying their cellular sheaths , and therefore in all probability furnishing their vasa vasorum .
3rdly .
The bronchial mucous membrane is very freely supplied with an exceedingly vascular plexus , of a peculiar and very characteristic description , which is found to ramify in every part of the bronchial membrane , and which may be traced even as high as the trachea .
The whole of this plexus is derived from the air-cells , and terminates ultimately by means of minute radicles , which form trunks and join the pulmonary veins .
No trace whatever of any branches of the pulmonary artery , previous to this becoming capillary in the air-cells , is found in any part of the bronchial membrane .
4thly .
The blood being brought to the air-cells by imeans of the pulmonary artery , is wholly returned by the pulmonary veins ; but the trunks of these latter are formed by the junction of two distinct sets of radicles , namely , one set which comprises those which are formed from the perimeters of the air-cells ( i. e. that part of the air-cell which is distant from the bronchial tube to which it is connected ) , and which at once form trunks which are visible on the surface of the lungs , and of all the lobules , and especially of the surfaces which adjoin the interlobular fissures ; the other set consist of those which are derived from the bases of the air-cells , and which supply the bronchial membrane , and then terminate by radicles form " ing trunks , which join the before-mentioned set of pulmonary veins .
; and from these conjoined , the larger venous trunks are derived , which at length accompany the larger bronchi , and the pulmonary arteries , and which finally terminate in the left auricle of the heart ; so that 316the blood brought to the left auricle is formed of that portion which comes direct from the air-cells , and that which , after leaving the air-cells , has undergone the further process of distribution on the bronchial membrane , and has been the source from whence the epithelium and the bronchial mucus have been derived , and may therefore be considered as somewhat altered in character from that which , coming direct from the air-cells , has not been exposed to such changes .
5thly .
It is possible to inject entirely the pulmonary artery and veins , without injecting the bronchial artery or veins ; and it is also possible thoroughly to ' inject the latter without at all injecting the former ; and when that is the case , i. e. the ( so called ) bronchial arteries are injected while the pulmonary vessels are empty , it will be found that the bronchial i membranle is wholly uninjected , however perfectly the ( so called ) bronchial vessels may have been:filled .
6thly .
By injecting the lung through the pulmonary veins , the bronchial membrane becomes thoroughly injected , even before the air-cells are so ; on the contrary , when the pulmonary artery is alone injected , the air-cells become injected long before the liquid reaches the bronchial membrane .
In neither of these cases are the bronchial arteries , i. e. those derived from the aorta or veins which correspond to them , in the slightest degree injected .
7thly .
The bronchial arteries , which are injected by filling the aorta , terminate in veins , which ramify in the subpleural cellular tissue ; the greater part of these , after ramifying on the surface of the lung beneath the pleura , pass along the broad band of pleura , which extends from the peduncle of the lung to the posterior mediastinum , and encloses the root of the lung , and which may be called the mesopleura , and the veins then empty themselves into the oesophageal veins and other .
veins in the posterior mediastinum .
It is probable also that some terminate in the azygos veins , the jugular veins , the diaphragmatic veins , and the venme cave ; in short , wherever they can meet with a systemic vein situated conveniently ; but they form no sort of communication with the pulmonary veins , either in their capillaries or their larger trunks .
8thly .
It is found that the coats of the lymphatic vessels of the lung are supplied by blood-vessels which are derived from the aircells , and which terminate in the pulmonary veins , and the distribution of the blood-vessels on the coata of the lymphatics bears a strong resemblance to those distributed on the bronchial membrane .
The author then describes his apparatus for injection ; the subjects injected ; and the drawings which accompany his communication .
In conclusion he states , that sufficient has been adduced to confute the opinion that there is one set of vessels for the nutrition of the lung in its ordinary acceptance , and another for the respiratory function .
Without doubt the bronchial ( so-called ) vessels and the pulmonary are distinct , both as to their distribution and functions ; the one being for the purposes of breathing , while the other solely supplies the cellular tissue of the organ .

