IV .
" c On the Chemical Constitution of Reichenbach 's Creosote."Preli-minary Notice .
By HuGo ULLEMR , Ph. D. Communicated by WYARREN NDE LA RuE , F.R.S. Received October 1 , 1864 .
This substance , which has beein discovered by Reichenbach amnonigst the products of destructive distillation of wood , has been repeatedly the suibject of chemical invTestigation , but owing to the difficulty attending its purification , the chemical nature of creosote remained doubtful until 1858 , when Jllasiwetz published his elaborate research on this subject .
Up to that time Reichenbach 's creosote was frequently confounded with phenol ( phenylic alcohol , carbolic acid ) ; and , indeed , the latter had very nearlysupplarited the true creosote in its application .
Hlasiwetz first prepared the creosote in a chemically pure state , and ascertained its chenmical formula to be C8 'I1n 02 and showed that this substance , although having some characteristic properties in common with phenol , was a distinct chennical substance , and otherwise in no way related to this body .
At the timie of publicationi of lIlasiwetz 's memoir I was myself engaged with the investigationof creosote prepared from wood-tar ; and such results as I had them arrived at completely coinicided with those obtained by 1-7lasiwetz .
Ilaving a considerable quantity of puLre material at my disposal , I took up this subject again , with the view of obtaining some e insight into the chemical constitution of creosote , and I think I am now able to lay before the Society a few results which may serve as a contribuitioni towards the solution of the quiestions at issue .
I will reserve a fall description of my experiments for a fnture occasion , and confine m-yself in this communication merely to the description of one reaction , which I considler best calculated to illustrate the results I have obtained .
When pure creosote , boiling constantly ( in hydrogenl ) at 21 9'C .
, is brouoht into contact with concentrated hydriodic acid and heated to boiling , it is acted upon , iodinie is set free , and iodide of methyl distils over .
As the free iodine interferes with the result of the reaction , I varied the experiment by substituting iodide of phosphorus for hydriodic acid , in the following manner : the creosote is shakeln up with a small quanltity of water , of which it dissolves a certaini portion , then ordinary phosphorus is inltroduced , and the whole gently warmed .
'he iodine is now added in small quantities at a time , care being taken that there is always an excess of phosphorus after the iodine has been converted into iodide of phosphorus .
If the temperature is now gradually raised to about 95 ?
C. , the reaction makes itself manifest by the evolution of vapour of iodide of methyl , which distils over , and which is conlensed in an ice refrigerator .
As soon as the reaction diminishes , fresh portions of phosphorus and iodine are added , and the experiment so continiued until the substance in the retort becomes gradually thicker and thicker , and viscid if allowed to cool .
The distillate collected in the receiver consists mainly of iodide of methvl mixed with some unaltered creosote , from which it is readily liberated by distillation , and agitation with a solution of caustic alkali .
The residue contained in the retort , on being mixed with water , now readily dissolves , with the exception of a small quantity of a heavy brown oil which contains unaltered creosote .
The aqueous solution is mixed with a large quantity of water and partly saturated with carbonate of barium , the clear liquid filtered off and precipitated with acetate of lead , the white precipitate well washed and decomposed with sulphuretted hydrogen .
The sulphide of lead having been filtered off , the aqueous solution is now carefully evaporated at a low temperature , when a thick heavy liquid is obtained , which in its reactions so closely resembles pyrocatechine or oxyphenic acid , that one would be inclined to consider it identical with this substance if it were not for the apparent iynpossibility of obtaining it in a crystalline form .
I am still engaged with the determination of the composition of the latter substance ; but , from its chemical nature , so far as I have made myself acquainted with it , and from other considerationis , I think it more than probable that this substanice bears the closest analogy to oxypheniic acid ( C , 116 2 ) and iS in all probability its honiologue .
The described decomposition of creosote may be expressed in the following way : C8 10 02+I-I=CH3 I+U 1 1802Creosote .
Iodide of methyl .
According to which creosote may be considered as methylated oxytolylic acid , or oxykressylic acid .
This view gainis in probability if we consider the general properties of creosote , and the fact that a lower homologue of creosote , together with free oxyphenic acid , exists amonigst the products of distillation of wood .
Hlasiwetz has moreover shown that guaiacol is identical with this lower homologue of creosote , which it resembles in every respect .
If the constitution of creosote ( C8 IHl 02 ) turns out to be as stated above , guaiaeol ( C7 118 02 ) may be regarded as methylated oxyphenic acid , and we may therefore expect to obtain by the action of hydriodic acid upon this substance , iodide of methyl and oxyphenic acid .
I am about to carry out the latter experiment .

