Address of the President , Sir J. J. at the Anniversary Meeting , November SO , 1917 .
Fifteen Fellows and three Honorary Members have died since the last Anniversary Meeting . .
The losses on the Home List are:\#151 ; Prof. Oliver .
Mr. Clement Reid .
\#166 ; Mr. W. Ellis .
Prof. A. M. Worthington . .
Prof. J. Purdie .
Sir E. B. Tylor .
Mr , Pickard-Cambridge .
Dr. W. H. Besant .
Prof. McKenny Hughes .
Mr. R. Bell .
Sir W. D. Niven , K.C.B. Prof. Hull .
Lord Cromer .
Lord Allerton .
Mr. W. Duddell .
From the list of Foreign Members we have lost:\#151 ; Prof. Gaston Darboux .
Prof. Chauveau .
Prof , von Baeyer .
By the death of Prof. Gaston Darboux , the Secretary of the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of France , we have lost a great Mathematician and a great Ambassador of Science , who by his own researches , his official position , and his striking personality , had done much to advance the progress of science .
We offer our sympathies to our Sister Academy on the loss of one who for 17 years had guided its policy with conspicuous ability and distinction , and we rejoice that our Society was able to show its appreciation of Prof. Darboux 's work by the award , at our last Anniversary Meeting , of the Sylvester Medal .
Prof. J. B. Chauveau , who died at the age of 90 in January of this year , was a famous and many-sided biologist and one of the makers of Physiology in the latter half of the last century .
Prof , von Baeyer , the successor of Liebig in the Professorship of Chemistry at Munich , was one of the founders of modern Organic Chemistry .
His activities covered a very wide range and included the introduction of new ideas of great theoretical importance as well as some of the most striking and important applications of Organic Chemistry to industrial purposes .
Anniversary Address by Sir J. Thomson .
183 From the Home list we have lost Prof. Oliver , who had been a Fellow of the Society for 53 years and Keeper of the Herbarium at Kew for more than a quarter of a century ; he was the predecessor of his son , our Fellow , in the Professorship of Botany at University College .
He did much to advance Botanical Science , both by his own researches and the unstinted assistance he gave to those of others .
Mr. Clement Reid , a distinguished member of the Geological Survey , had made many notable and widely discussed contributions to our knowledge of fossil plants .
By the death of Mr. William Ellis we have lost a veteran in the service of Meteorology and Astronomy , who had made important contributions to our knowledge of the connection between sunspot frequency and terrestrial magnetic disturbances .
The length of his connection with official Astronomy may be gathered from the fact that he attended for 75 years consecutively the Annual Visitation of Greenwich Observatory .
Prof. A. M. Worthington , when a Master at Clifton College , was a pioneer in the introduction into the teaching of science in schools of a carefully planned scheme of practical work .
His work on the tensile strength of liquids and on splashes has enriched science with results of great beauty and high scientific importance .
Prof. Thomas Pdrdie , for 25 years Professor of Chemistry at the University of St. Andrews , endowed that University with a fully equipped Research Chemical Laboratory .
He possessed , to an exceptional extent , the power of winning the confidence and affection of his pupils .
Sir E. B. Tylor had been a Fellow of the Society for 46 years .
As Keeper of the University Museum , as Reader in and subsequently first Professor of Anthropology at Oxford he exerted a wide influence over the progress of that science .
His great erudition and charming literary style made him " the first and foremost exponent of the comparative method in this country .
" By the death of Prof. McKenny Hughes , the successor of Adam Sedgwick in the Woodwardian Professorship of Geology at Cambridge , we have lost a man of wide interests and activities .
He was the head of a most successful : School of Geology , a collector , an antiquary , and it is to his exertions that the New Geological Museum at Cambridge owes much of its amplitude and i completeness .
The toll of geologists during the past year has been a heavy one ; we have a to mourn the loss , at the age of 69 , of the well-known geologist , Edward !
Hull , the Director of the Geological Survey of Ireland , and of Dr. Robert t Bell , the Director of the Canadian Survey .
Sir W. D. Niven , for many years Director of Naval Education and the 184 Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
editor of Maxwell 's ' Collected Papers ' and of the second edition of Maxwell 's \#171 ; Electricity and Magnetism , ' did much when a lecturer at Trinity College to promote the study of Mathematical Physics at Cambridge .
Though not a fluent lecturer , he possessed the power of exciting the keen interest of his pupils , among whom I am proud to count myself .
He had a genius for friendship , and no one looked to him in vain for assistance and encouragement .
By the death of Dr. Besant , at the age of 89 , we have lost one who in the days when there were Senior Wranglers used to take an active part in their training .
Mr. Pickard-Cambridge belonged to a class which is characteristic of this country , the man of science who does not hold any professorship or official post in connection with science .
A country clergyman , he was the leading authority on one branch of Entomology .
The tragic death , at the age of 45 , of William Duddell has deprived English Applied Science of one who was great both by performance and promise .
His invention of the oscillograph and the singing arc gave us instruments of singular scientific interest and great practical importance .
When war broke out he threw all his energies into developing applications of science to military needs .
He was indefatigable in considering and criticising the numerous proposals made for this purpose , and his wide knowledge , insight , and sound judgment were of the utmost value .
His health broke down under the strain of this work , and by his death we lose one who rendered good service to the country in its time of trial .
In less momentous times it has been the privilege of the President on these occasions to bring before the notice of the Society the results of the work of the Fellows in their efforts to unravel the secrets of Nature .
In these days duties higher even than that of scientific investigation have occupied our attention .
The beneficent work of extending the empire of Man over Nature has been replaced by a struggle to prevent civilisation coming under an empire which , we believe , would deprive it of freedom and justice\#151 ; of what is the soul as it should be the goal of humanity .
The extent to which men of science in this country are engaged on investigations connected with the war is hardly realised , except by those who have to try to find the men for any new piece of work of this kind which may .
have to be put in hand .
It is a matter of the greatest difficulty to find any competent person who is not already engaged on such work .
Professors from our Dominions have come back to help at home , and in some cases have brought their demonstrators and senior students with them .
The importance of having an ample supply of trained scientific workers , and the necessity for Anniversary Address by Sir J. \#171 ; 7* Thomson .
185 this country to increase its supply in the future , could hardly be proved more incisively than by our experience in this connection .
A large amount of work has been done by Committees of the Eoyal Society during the past year in connection with the urgent question of food production and distribution , and the prevention of the destruction of grain by insect and other pests ; you will have learned from the Eeport of the Council that these have been in close touch with the Food Controller .
The functions of the Engineering and Physics Committees which were fprmed at the beginning of the war to develop the application of science to military purposes have to a large extent been undertaken by departments created by the State in connection with the Army and Navy , furnished with large resources and in close touch with the Services ; most of the members of the Physics and Engineering Committees are actively .engaged in connection with these departments .
The work of the National Physical Laboratory , which has greatly extended during the past year , has been almost entirely in connection with the war , and we have the satisfaction of receiving testimony from all sides that the services the Laboratory has rendered to the country have been of vital importance .
The application of science to the purposes of the War , on which so many of our Fellows have been engaged , has involved more than the adaptation of previously known scientific results to this purpose .
The channels along which the main currents of investigation flowed before the war were those which seemed of most importance in connection with the development of the theory of the subject or with its industrial applications ; other parts of the subject formed backwaters , which were often comparatively neglected .
The needs of the Army , the Navy , and the Air Service have created new types of problems ; phenomena which had not hitherto attracted much attention have become of vital importance , and have required further investigation before they could be used to the best advantage .
The question of International Science , bound up as it is with International Scientific Academies and Societies , is profoundly affected by the war .
So much depends upon what happens before Peace is declared that any definite decision as to future action would be premature .
But to ensure unanimity it is important that the men of science in each of the allied nations should know the views held by their colleagues .
Proposals which it is hoped will effect this object have occupied the attention of the Council .
Immediately after our last Anniversary Meeting , Lord Crewe , who was then President of the Council , announced to a deputation of the Conjoint Board of Scientific Societies that a large sum of money had been allotted 186 Anniversary Address by Sir Thomson .
by the Government for the purpose of promoting the application of science to our industries .
It was pointed out by some members of the deputation that for the creation of new industries pure science\#151 ; science undertaken without any definite idea of practical application\#151 ; was in the long run even more important than the application of science to solve definite technical problems .
Lord Crewe , in his speech to the deputation , spoke sympathetically of the claims of pure science ; may we hope that this feeling will influence the action of those who have the administration of the fund ?
I wish to call attention to a point in the discussion which has been continued through the past year on the vital question of the position of Science in Education .
The need for a greater appreciation of the value of science has been brought into such prominence by the war that most of those who have advocated the claims of science in education have not unnaturally laid the greatest stress on the importance of science to the welfare , the power , and even the safety , of the nation .
The supporters of literary studies have , on the other hand , dwelt mainly on the fact that ' literature broadens a man 's horizon , and gives him new interests and pleasures , that it teaches him how to live , if not how to make a living .
The result of this divergence of appeal has made the discussion appear , to those who watch it from outside , almost like a discussion between Spirituality and Materialism , or between a saint and a man of business .
Echoes of this sentiment are to be found in the opinions expressed by some members of the Labour Party ; there is a tendency to regard science teaching with suspicion , as being intended to make the working man more valuable to his employer rather than to increase the brightness and interest of his own life .
I recognise\#151 ; and I know no man of science who does not\#151 ; the necessity of literary studies as a part of the education of every boy and girl , but I must protest against the idea that literature has a monopoly in the mental development of the individual .
The study of science widens the horizon of his intellectual activities , and helps him to appreciate the beauty and mystery which surround him .
It opens up avenues of constant appeal to his intellect , to his imagination , to his spirit of inquiry , to his love for truth .
So far from being entirely utilitarian , it often lends romance and interest to things which to those ignorant of science make no appeal to the intellect or imagination , but are regarded by them from an exclusively utilitarian point of view .
A knowledge of science brightens and widens the intellectual life , and is a constant stimulus to the intellect and imagination .
The question of the position of science in schools is of vital importance ; I think that we ought also to pay attention to the need for sustaining and Anniversary Address by Sir .
J. Thomson , 187 stimulating in after-life the interest in science which we hope will have been aroused at school .
We should encourage and develop efforts to bring to the notice of the public those results of science which are of general interest .
I am not sure that we do all that is possible in this direction , and yet-it seems our duty to the community to give it everything which can add interest to life and stimulate the intelligence ; to do everything in our power to increase appreciation and interest in science among our citizens ; without such appreciation a full utilisation of the resources of science and adequate encouragement for its development is impossible in a democratic country .
There are many results of general interest embodied in papers which could not be read by anyone who was not a specialist in the subject .
I will give one instance , taken from what might seem a somewhat unpromising branch of science , Arithmetic .
If we take the numbers in order 1 , 2 , 3 , * ... we see that there are some , such as 3 , 5 , 7 , 11 , which cannot be divided by any number smaller than themselves ; these are called prime numbers ; the number of such primes which are less than a given number is a matter of very considerable importance , and Gauss , many years ago , gave , without any rigorous proof , a rule about it .
The rule was tested by actual trial for numbers up to a thousand millions , and , as it was found to be true over that immense range , it was accepted as universally correct in spite of the absence of a satisfactory proof .
Quite recently , however ; Mr. Littlewood , one of our Fellows , has shown that , in spite of this apparently overwhelming evidence in its favour , the result is not gefi\amp ; al , .
but the numbers for which it breaks down are so enormous !
th\amp ; t it would be quite beyond the powers of human endurance to detect iti failure by actual trial .
I may say , in passing , that , enormous as these numbers are , they are mere nothings compared with " what we have to deal with in many branches of Physics .
Here , then , we have a result which *has satisfied , and apparently always will satisfy , any direct test that can be applied to it , and yet is not generally true ; there seems to me to be something of a tragedy , perhaps the suspicion of a sermon , in this investigation , which is in a paper of a highly technical character , quite unintelligible to anyone who was not an expert mathematician .
' .
There are many results of this kind , known only to specialists , butwliich would interest a very much wider circle of readers if they could be brought to their notice .
Unfortunately , there does not seem to be at present a*hy recognised method of doing this .
There are excellent periodicals With special circles of readers which might find a place for some of them , but these only reach a minute fraction of the educated public .
There is room , I think , for a periodical which would appeal to a much wider circle , Which 188 Anniversary Address by J. Thomson .
should contain interesting and trustworthy accounts of results of interest , not only in science , but in the other subjects included in a general education .
The desirability of a journal of this kind was recently brought before the notice of the Executive Committee of the Conjoint Board of Scientific Studies .
If it could be established , it would , I believe , do good work by stimulating the intellectual life of the nation and increasing the appreciation of science throughout the country .
J The Copley Medal is awarded to M. Simile Roux . .
M. Emile Roux , Pasteur 's chief collaborator , succeeded him as the Director of the Institut Pasteur , which he has successfully developed and maintained as the foremost school of bacteriology , both for teaching and for research .
From the early eighties , when he was associated with Pasteur and Chamberland in the study of anthrax and production of vaccines against this disease , he has played a leading part in the development of our knowledge of the processes of immunity .
His work with the distinguished veterinarian Nocard upon the contagious pleure-pneumonia of cattle was the first demonstration of the existence of " ultra-microscopic " or , as they are now termed , filterable viruses as disease-producing agencies ; his work with Yersin , the first full study of the bacillus of diphtheria and of its toxins .
He shares with the late Prof. Behring , of Marburg , in the introduction of diphtheria antitoxin as a practical means of prophylaxis and cure , and with him as co-founder of serum therapeutics was awarded the Nobel prize .
All the leading French bacteriologists of our generation have been his pupils .
A Royal Medal is awarded to Dr. John Aitken .
Dr. Aitken is distinguished for his life-long researches on the nuclei of cloudy condensation , embodied in a series of memoirs communicated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh .
The latest of these appeared in the present year .
Dr. Aitken 's discoveries opened up a new field of investigation in physics , and constitute a chapter of knowledge of great importance intrinsically and in their relation to the physics of meteorology .
Dr. Aitken , who has pursued his work as an amateur , has displayed great experimental ingenuity , and his remarkable construction of the " dust-counter " has provided , a permanent scientific appurtenance of precision to the physicist and climatologist .
Among other contributions to science , Dr. Aitken has made important advances jn our knowledge of the formation of dew .
Anniversary Address by Sir J. Thomson .
A Royal Medal is awarded to Dr. Arthur Smith Woodward .
Dr. Smith Woodward has been for many years Keeper of the Department \#166 ; of Geology in the British Museum , and has published a very large number of valuable memoirs on Fossil Vertebrates , especially Fishes .
He has also published an important ' Catalogue of Fossil Fishes in the British Museum/ .and his ' Outlines of Vertebrate Palaeontology/ published in 1898 , is a standard text-book on the subject .
Dr. Smith Woodward 's original memoirs are too numerous to mention , but they have secured for him a world-wide reputation , and he is universally regarded as one of the highest authorities on vertebrate palaeontology .
Dr. Smith Woodward was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1901 , and served on the Council from 1913 to 1915 .
The Davy Medal is awarded to M. Albin Haller .
Professor of Organic Chemistry at the Sorbonne , Paris , Founder and First President of the International Association of Chemical Societies , and at the present time the most representative chemist of France , he is distinguished for his many and important contributions to chemical science during the past forty years .
His investigations have covered a very wide field in the domain of organic chemistry , the most important being those dealing with compounds belonging to the camphor group .
He has maintained over a long period of years the reputation of the Sorbonne School of Chemical Research , created by Dumas and Wurtz , his predecessors in the Chair .
The Buchanan Medal is awarded to Sir Almroth Edward Wright .
Almroth Wright was the first ( 1896 ) to apply laboratory knowledge on typhoid immunity to the protection of human beings against enteric fever .
Against formidable opposition he carried out a long series of observations with the highest scientific acumen and unsurpassed technique , and laid the foundations for the effective elimination of enteric fever from the armies of the world .
Nothing of importance has been added to his work down to the present time .
The Hughes Medal is awarded to Prof. Charles Glover Barkla .
Prof. Barkla 's investigations have mainly dealt with X-rays , and their absorption and secondary emission by solid substances .
He showed that secondary emission of X-rays was of two varieties .
In .one of these the X-rays are scattered , without change of quality .
The scattered rays were shown by examining tertiary emission to be polarised , and this was a 190 Dr. G. N. Watson .
fundamental result for the classification of X-rays with ordinary radiation , at that time doubtful .
Barkla 's other kind of secondary emission is characteristic of the secondary radiator , and is accompanied by selective absorption of the primary rays .
He showed that each chemical element emitted more than one definite kind of secondary fluorescent radiation .
Concentrating attention on , say , the less penetrating kind , it was found to vary in quality by definite steps with the atomic weight of the secondary radiator .
These results have been confirmed and extended by others since the discovery of the diffraction of X-rays ' by crystals .
This , of course , in no way detracts from the merit of the original discoveries made without this powerful assistance .
The Zeros of Bessel Functions .
By G. X. Watson , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Assistant Professor of Pure Mathematics at University College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. Received August 17 , 1917 .
) 1 .
Although many results are known concerning the zeros of Bessel functions , * the greater number of these results are of practical importance only in the case of functions of comparatively low order .
For example , McMahon has given a formulaf for calculating the zeros of the Bessel function .
Jn(x ) , namely that , if h\t k % } kz , ... , are the positive zeros arranged in ascending order of magnitude , then 7 " _ Q 4ft,2\#151 ; 1 4(4n2\#151 ; l)(28ft,2\#151 ; 31 ) * 8/ 3 3 .
( 8/ 3)3 *7 where / 3 = \#163 ; -7r(2ft , + 4s\#151 ; 1 ) .
Now , this formula is derived from Hankel 's well-known asymptotic expansion of J\#187 ; ( # ) , and the expansion is available for numerical calculations only when 8x is large compared with 4ft,2 ; and so McMahon 's formula fails to fulfil its purpose in the case of the smaller zeros of functions of high order , which are frequently of more importance from the physical point of view than the larger zeros of these functions .
It is , however , possible to obtain a number of quite general existence * * See Gray and Mathews , ' Bessel Functions , ' pp. 34-50 , 241 -244 ; Whittaker and Watson , * Modern Analysis , ' Ch. XVII .
+ 'Annals of Math. , ' yol .
9 , pp. 23-30 ( 1894 ) .

