]\gt ; The Theor.of Photographic Processes , Part II : On the Chernical Dynamics of Development , including the Microscopy of the Image .
By S. E. SHEPPABD , B.Sc. , and C. E. K. MEES , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Sir Wmiam Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received March 25 , \mdash ; Read March 30 , 1905 .
) The investigation of development described in a previous communication* was extended by the application of microscopic methods .
The fact that both the silver haloid and the resulting silver are distributed through the film in the form of particles of minute but measurable size , allows us in this to detect finer qualitative differences in , and to draw independent deductions on the processes of exposure and development .
The size of the grain is important , both from the practical point of view and from the theoretical : in the one case as bearing on spectroscopical and astronomical photography , in the other on account of the great importance of the degree of surface-extension for heterogeneous systems .
The method has been used previously by Abney , Abegg , Kaiserling , Ebert , and others , but by far the most systematic and important inquiry is that of K. Schaum and .
Bellach .
S The work subsequently described had been carried out in part before Bellach 's monogra } ) came to our notice .
The investigation was then extended beyond the limits of exposure and development given by Bellach and arranged to compare both with his results and those of our former paper .
As much of the detail is of chiefly photo-technical interest , only the chief results are given heal ; a fuller account will be published in the ' raphic Journal .
' Lxperimpntat .
Beck objective -inch and Reichart No. inch , both dry systems , and for some work Zeiss -inch cedar-oil immersion , kindly lent by Professor 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 74 , pp. 447 to 473 .
Ostwald , ' Lehrbuch , ' vol. 3 ( ' Chem. Kinetik ' ) ; Bredig , ' Arch. .
wiss .
Phot 1900 ; ' Eder 's Jahrbuch , ' 1899 , p. 357 .
H. Ebert , ' Eder 's Jahrbuch , ' 1894 , p. 14 ; Kaiserling , ' Phot .
Mit 1898 ( I and ; Abney , ' Phot .
Journal , ' 1898 ; B Abegg , ' Arch. .
wiss .
Phot 1899 , vol. 1 , p. 109 .
S K. Schaum and V. Bellach , 'Physik .
Zeitschrift , ' 1901\mdash ; 02 , and especially " " Die Struktur der Phot .
Negative by .
Bellach W. Knapp , Halle , 1903 ) .
admirable monograph contains a very complete bibliography on all points .
Except in region of solarisation .
Tests.\mdash ; As the study of ripening was deferred for further work , only the points bearing on the theory of development were considered .
Preparations were made by dissolving a small piece of film in warm water and flattening under a cover-glass , then sealing with Canada balsam .
The grains of a very thin layer thus obtained could be examined separately Long exposure had no apparent effect .
The grain in fast plates varied somewhat in size , there being , e.g. , in an Imperial special rapid , two species ( a ) mm. and mm. The latter were flattened polyhedra , of triangular section ; in the slow plates , the emulsion was practically homogeneous , the size of grain in Wratten ordinary being in mean mm. It could not be ascertained with certainty whether the grain was crystalline or amorphous .
The Physical Nature of Silver Haloid Emulsions.\mdash ; Bellach found that in many cases the mean size of the grain diminished with careful drying .
* Thus , after several days ' desiccation , a contraction from mm.2 to mm.2 was noticed in an Eder emulsion .
This points to the grain itself possessing structure , and agrees with Quinoke 's views as to the nature of silver haloid emulsions .
He considers that the AgBr " " grains\ldquo ; are not pure AgBr , but contain gelatine .
An emulsion in which the colloidal particles have flocked together forms a " " spume Liquid or jellified colloids consist of " " spume\ldquo ; masses with liquid or solid spume-walls , enclosing very minute or invisible chambers .
haloid emulsions there is a stiffjelly containing a totally or partially solidified solution of AgBr in gelatine , in which a phase rich in AgBr has separated from a second phase poorer in AgBr , but richer in gelatine .
In the spume-walls and cells , spheres and crystals of haloid , much smaller than the measured grain , have separated .
The\ldquo ; adsorption\ldquo ; of gelatine to the AgBr agrees with Eder 's researches on the separation of pure AgBr from emulsions by centrifugalising .
S Structure of Developed Negative .
By focussing on the top layer of particles , then down on to the lowest observable particles , the thickness of the reduced silver layer can be measured .
This apparent thickness , recorded by the micrometer head of the fine adjust* Bellach , loc. cit. , p. 34 .
G. Quincke , ' Ann. .
Phys Flge .
, vol. 2 , , 1000 , et seq. Hardy , : Zeit . .
Phys. Chem vol. 30 .
$ Eder and Valenta , ' Beitrage sir Photochemie , ' etc. , sec. 3 , p. 19 .
1905 .
] The .
Theory of Processes .
meant , and multiplied by , these being respectively the refractive indices of the gelatine and objective systems , gives the real thickness .
* With Wratten ordinary emulsion , exposed and developed as described , the negative-layer was somewhat as described by Bellach:\mdash ; ( a ) Surface-area , particles not very numerous .
( b ) Mean-layer , with characteristic forms .
( c ) Lower zone of smaller particles , the lower they llie .
This Bellach attributes to the penetration of developer , but we shall show later that a more potent factor is that the most axposed grains start devdopment first .
On ultimate development these ains reach the same size as the others .
Table Ferrous Oxalate .
mins .
at C. 10 mins .
at C. kness .
Table Ferrous Oxalate .
Time of Development and Thickness .
C.M.S. .
For the thickness , the following facts were ascertained:\mdash ; ( a ) With constant development for a short time the depth of the is independent of the exposure .
* Bellach , .
cit. , p. 56 .
( e ) With long development the depth increases somewhat with the exposure , a limit naturally being fixed by the thickness of the film .
Every measurement is the mean of 10 , each focussing being repeated , and for various portions of the film .
On the Size of the Many discordant observations as to the influence of exposure and development on the size of the grain have been published .
* Our observations agree with Schaum and Bellach 's , for the early stages of development , but on prolongin the development , the conclusions are modified .
They may be expressed as follows:\mdash ; When , the degree of development , is low , the size of grain increases with the exposure .
As the time of development increases , the size of the grain does also , until at , it is independent of the exposure .
In addition to.micrometric measurement of the diameter , the mean size was obtained by drawing the outline of the rains on squared paper by means of a reflecting system , and then measuring the surface-extension .
This method could not be applied to the smallest grains , for which the micrometric measurements are only approximate .
The mean diameter of the " " area\ldquo ; method is the mean between greatest and least , and is given to compare with the micrometric diameter .
The results are the means of 20 observations , and of 10 for the area method .
Influence of Table III.\mdash ; Developed mins .
in .
Ferrous Oxalate at C. * Bellach , .
cit. , p. 72 .
TOid .
, p. 76 .
1905 .
] Theory of Photographic ocesses .
For the exposure an intensity-scale was nsed with constant time .
Similar results were obtained by varying the time with intensity constant .
Influence of Development .
Table \mdash ; Exposure C.M.S. Developed in .
Ferrous Oxalate at C. ( a ) For mean layer .
( b ) For lower zone .
Size of Grain on Infinite Devetopment .
For moderately high exposures and prolonged development measurements could not be made on the plate direct , so preparations were made and the grain measured and photographed .
Table Developed to in Ferrous Oxalate .
Hence , generally , , but at is independent of , the exposure .
Plate figs. Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
Effect of Bromide .
Table These were developed minutes in ferrous oxalate , , no nide , K.Br .
This confirms Bellach 's statement that bromide lowers the size of the grain .
In addition , it should be noticed that the effect is greater the less the exposure .
Also , it was found that the size of the grain diminished as the concentration of the bromide increased .
Bromide at Infinite Development .
Table \mdash ; Developed to in Ferrous Oxalate , On comparing this table with Table , it will be seen that on infinite development the grain attains the same size in a bromided as in a non-bromided developer .
Plate figs. On the Number of Grains and Bxposur.e .
In the Surface \mdash ; For this , photo-micrographs were taken at diameters , and the grains counted in a given area on the negative .
The values are the means of 20 observations .
1905 .
] Theory of Photographic .
Processes .
Table VIII .
Developed 1 mins .
in Ferrous Oxalate .
Hence for moderately long development , the number of grains on the surface is constant .
In the Thickness.\mdash ; These were counted directly under the microscope , with a micrometer in squares .
The values are for 25 to 30 squares , being taken in different portions of the film .
unit volume is a prism of area 1 mm.2 and height equal to thickness of film .
It was found that the number of increased with the vposure , and long development nearly proportional to the density .
As this is contrary to Bellach 's results , several sets of experiments were made , with as wide a as practicable of exposure and development , which fully bore this out .
The conclusion was further tested by making sections through the filnL The best results were obtained by removing the developed film from the plate and rolling it up in gum mucilage .
A small portion was then frozen on an ether spray microtome and sections cut .
These gave a spiral embracing several tones , and it was easily seen that the number of grains increased with the exposure , the depth of the image but slightly .
The appearance reed with Abney 's description : * " " With small exposure the grains are congregated chiefly near the surface .
As the exposure increases , the film behind fills up with particles and they crowd together Table IX.\mdash ; Developed mins .
in Ferrous Oxalate .
Mg C. 1000 .
Abney , ' Phot .
Journal , ' 1898 .
far as the density permitted .
Above to measurements could not be made ; but it can be seen that on extreme development ( Tabls V ) the size of the grain is constant .
Yet the density has increased from to or about sixteen times .
Since no commensurate increase in the size of the grain has occurred , the number must have increased .
Influence of Development .
Table X.\mdash ; Wratten Ordinary Plate Exposed for C.M.S. developed in Ferrous Oxalate at C. Curve I. Time of development The number of grains increases rapidly at first , then more radually till a maximum is attained .
This agrees with Bellach 's results .
Exposure Through tho -side .
Two plates were given identical exposures behind the sector-wheel , and developed for 10 minutes in ferrous oxalate at .
One was exposed through the glass-side , the other from film-side but with a glass plate in front .
On fixing , etc. , although both showed 5 tones , the densities of the glass-side plate were considerably less than that of the other .
This agrees with Abegg*and Bellach .
Thickness of lVegative-Layer .
The depth is much the same for both plates .
According to Abegg , all the grains in back exposed plate appeared equally developed , whereas ] lach describes his preparations as similar to front exposed plates , , uppermost with few and small particles , mean characteristic layer , and lowest with very small particles .
In our plates the appearance agreed with 's description , the increase in size of grain being in the opposite sense to that of a film-side ) osed plate .
The apparent ence in description is probably due to the fact that Bellach used short development , 110 seconds , with a strong developer , while Abegg used stand development , more comparable with the author 's conditions .
The result shows , that other things being equal , the grain receiving most is most reactive and starts first .
Thus , for C.M.S. exposure , Micro-diameter .
Focus .
mm. Film-side plate Glass-side plate. .
Abegg .
Cl. Immerwabr , ' .
Wien .
Akad vol. 114 , , 1900 .
, p. 61 .
Air-side. .
132 Glass-side . .
71 while Abegg and Immerwahr give and Both the densities and the number of grains are reater for the air-side plate .
Abegg attributes this to the prevention of halogen diffusion .
observation on the part played by oxygen in the formation of latent images may also account for it however .
Possibly connected with this is the statement of Wulf , that for the so-called photo-electric effect the sensitiveness to light increases as the potential fall of electrode to surrounding gas increases .
The general results of the microscopic survey are in agreement with the theory of development proposed before .
Each grain develops as a more or less isolated system , only uniting to form " " aggregates\ldquo ; with other grains at high exposures , when the packing is closer .
The thickness of the reactionlayer is from to mm. , a value similar to that found by Brunner for many heterogeneous reactions .
But in this case the solid phase lies in layer .
he diffusion of the developer may be divided into two parts:\mdash ; ( a ) through the total thickness , , ( b ) through the micro-layer , , of the order mm. surrounding the grain .
This is the true reaction-layer , and the reacoion is somewhat like to the catalysis of by colloidal metals , save that there is no convection .
As the diffusion has to take place through gelatine , the structure and state of this may influence the velocity .
This be dealt with later .
The fact that the size of the grain with low time of development\mdash ; or better\mdash ; low development-factor varies with the exposure , indicates that the " " reactivity\ldquo ; of the individual haloid grain is a steady function of the exposure .
Hence at low development-factors departurcs from the law of constant density-ratios are possible , but difficult to confirm .
Such departures will be the more marked whenever the chemicat-vdoaity approaches that of the diffusion process .
The conclusions given here were confirmed for other develol ) , and we hope to publish them later in connection with the general survey of these ; since this work was finished , Messrs. Lumiere and WallaceS have published short studies on the size of the grain .
Their results do not contradict ours , but they do not seem to have considered sufficiently the effect of the degree of , on all observations .
Braun , ' Zeitschrift .
wiss .
Phot vol. 2 , Heft 8 .
Th. Wulf , ' Ann. .
Phys Flge .
, vol. 9 , p. 946 .
Lumiere , ' Zeit .
wiss .
Phot , p. 256 .
S Wallace , ' Astrophysical Journ 1906 .
The Theory of Photographic Processes .
227 The early stages of development.\mdash ; Considerable information concerning the velocity of development can be obtained from the " " time of appearance " " of the image , which is a function of it .
In 1893 Mr. Watkins announced that for any given reducer the time of appearance gave an accurate indication of the speed of , and that any variation iu the alkali , temperature , or strength affected the time necessary to reach a given density or developmentfactor in the same proportion that it affected the time of appearance .
Generally stated , , where is time for density , D. is time of appearance , and is a constant .
This rule has been usefully applied in practice for timing development , but the above statement is too wide , both experiment and theory showing that such a simple relation does not hold for many complex developing solutions .
The following considerations from the theory of the order of reactions*explain both the rule and the deviations from ib. If two analogous reactions continue to equal fractions of the total change , then the times necessary for this are inversely as the velocity-factors .
Of course , it is assumed that the same function of the variables still repre- sents the course of the reaction .
If experiments with different concentrations are carried to the same fraction of these , the following relations hold : For reactious of the first order the factors are directly , the times invel.sely as the concentrations , of the second order as the squares , and so on .
We may apply this to development as follows : density which is first visible , i.e. , first distinction between exposed and unexposed , is a constant and a fixed density , , say ( Schwcllenwerth ) .
Hence for same exposure , i.e. , same final density , always an equal fraction of the total density ; so the time of appearance , i.e. , for density , , is inyersely as the velocitycoefficient , and is similarly modified by concentration , etc. With different final densities and constant developer , the values of are inversely as the final densities , , etc. Here , of course , measures an equal fraction of the total oxidation of reducer .
Let and be any two final densities , and a fixed density , where , and let and be their respective times of appearance , and corresponding times to reach .
Then we have constant W whose numerical measure is proportional to the Watkins multiple , and is independent of concentration and only dependent on velocity function .
* Ostwald , ' Lehrbuch , ' Auflge .
, vol. 2 , p. 236 .
This fact rests on the existence of a " " Schwellenwerth\ldquo ; or " " threshold\ldquo ; value of perception of contrast by the eye .
for " " graded " " catalysed and so forth .
The same limitations hold for develop .
meant , and the occurrence of initial disturbances , varying in the specific developers , probably account for the wide variation of the Watkins multiple for various developel .
S , and also its variation with the same reducer .
for devdopers in which the balance between reduction-potential and diffusivity is within certain limits will be constant , since deviations will easily occur for such a small fraction of the total change , and yet the development-function remain much the same .
The writers have extensively developed the use of the\ldquo ; time of appearance\ldquo ; for investigation of development-kinetics .
The most similar use of such a method of inquiry in chemical dynamics is A. von research on the decomposition of thio-sulphate by acids , in which the " " time of appearance\ldquo ; of the sulphur-cloud was observed .
The limiting conditions for experimental accuracy discussed there hold also for development .
The time must not be so short that the limiting error of measurement seriously affects the result , nor so long as to cause doubt as to the exact moment .
The observations are made in a dark-room , but using as much of a steady reddish as possible , since subsequent fogging is in general immaterial .
The timing was done with a stop-watch marking of a second ; several observations of each time were made , and the mean used , and all measure- ments for comparison made at one period .
The method is accurate within the limits employed to about 2 per cent. Effect of Concentration with Ferrous Oxatate .
XI.\mdash ; Plate , Wratten Ordinary , exposed 8 C.M.M. This shows from to the velocity is directly proportional to the concentration , even at this early stage of development .
'Zeit . .
Phys. Chem vol. 30 ; cf. also H. Landolt , ' Ber vol. 19 , p. 1317 , 1886 .
1905 .
] The Theory of Photographic Processes .
perature and Develo m Experiment showed that the variation of temperature did not influence the density-ratios .
The effect of temperature on the velocity-constant was measured , and also on .
In this case four series of measurements were made , embracing the range C. to C. By interpolation the 1educed results the following table .
Table XII.\mdash ; Developed in Ferrous Oxalate .
C. Hoffs equation the integrated form for A sensibly constant , was found to represent the results very fairly .
Table XIII .
found as Curve calculated from * J. H. Hoff , ' Kgl .
Svenska Vet .
Hdl vol. 21 , No. 17 , 188 VOL. LXXVI.\mdash ; A. Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
Curve II .
Velocity of development .
The temperature-coefficient for from to C. is The validity of these results is shown by measurements of , the mean velocity coefficient .
Table Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , Temperature , found .
00632 0 0870 0 1174 Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
Temperature , found .
calc .
per cent. 00632 0 .
The Temperature-Coefficient .
Bodenstein*and have indicated the value of the temperature- coefficient for as a criterion in heterogeneous reactions .
For chemical reactions in homogeneous solution the value is generally about 2 to Brunner found for rate of solution of benzoic acid in water ; for diffusionprocesses we should expect a value about , and not varying for different bodies very much .
Now we have found that the expression can be used to measure the development velocity for most developers .
A preliminary study of the temperature-coefficient for different emulsions and developers gave the following results:\mdash ; 'Zeit . .
Physik .
Chem. vol. 49 , p. 42 , 1904 . .
Soc. Proc vol. 74 , p. 214 .
Va n't Hoff , ' Vorlesungen , ' vol. 1 , p. 225 .
Table The temperature-coefficient frequently passes the value to be expected from the diffusion-theory .
But in the case of development , we must be cautious in applying the criterion , as the following consiaeration will show : Beside the increase in diffusivity ( mobility of reducing molecule ) , we must also consider ( a ) alteration of resistance to diffusion in gelatine ; ( b ) in complex developing-solutions , alteration of concentration of ion by the chemical equilibrium , especially in alkaline developers .
Under these conditions a high temperature-coefficient in development does not mean that the velocity is that of a chemicat reaction .
In the case of ferrous oxalate , the theoretical formula of Hoff , which is a deduction from the reaction-isochore , was employed .
This is not legitimate in the case of diffusion phenomena , and the best tion would probably be the ordinary parabolic interpolation formula in the form ; a comparison of the constants and for different plates and developers should yield useful information on influences .
Resistance of the Gelatine .
Hardening agents , which raise the melting point of the , are generally supposed to alter the velocity of development by the ivity .
Many emulsions , however , show no such effect .
Thus , ) formalin ( 40-per-cent .
formaldehyde ) in 4-per-cent .
strength and incrensing time of immersion , although the became quite insoluble in water , the development-velocity was not lowered .
The general theory of the action of hardening ents will be discussed later in connection with the destruction of the " " latent Messrs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
Table mins s " " \ldquo ; By the rate of penetration the time for the reducer to pass through the reaction-layer , , is understood .
This was studied as follows:\mdash ; If plates are exposed through the glass-side , the image will lie nearer the glass , and we may expect it to appear\mdash ; ( a ) On front first if the penetration of the developer count most .
( b ) On back first if the greater reactivity of more exposed particles be the predominant factor .
A strip of Ilford ordinary film was exposed , cut up , and developed in ferrous oxalate at C. The values of given are means of four experiments .
Table XVII .
Consequently , with low exposures , the back appears before the front , but as the exposure increases , the developer being the same , the two times become equal , and eventually the image appears on front first .
This was confirmed on plates exposed in the sensitometer .
1905 .
] The Theory of Photographic Processes .
Plates given the same exposure from the front always show the image from the front first , the relative difference in time being somewhat greater , the absolute value of always less .
The above phenomena may be explained by the following considerations drawn from the microscopy of the image:\mdash ; ( a ) The absolute thickness of the layer of developable particles increases but htly with the exposure .
( b ) Reckoning down through the layer from the exposed side , the reactivity of each layer of grains diminishes through the thickness .
The slope of this reactlvi yradient then depends upon the exposure .
( c ) With short time of development the penetration increases rapidly ; further , as the developer reaches the lowest layers , its concentration will be diminished somewhat by and oxidation by developable AgBr .
There will , therefore , be a concentration radiant through the film .
( d ) Then in the case of exposure from air-side , the two gradients will be in the same direction , and will reinforce each other ; for exposure from the back , the gradients will be opposite in sense , and the front layers or back will appear first according as one factor or the other predominates .
This result is in agreement with the microscopic deduction , that other things being equal , the more exposed grains possess the greater reactivity and start developing first .
With regard to the absolute time required for the develope to penetrate the , hickness of the film , an estimate can be obtained as follows :With an Ilford film , the curve of which was known , the least time of appearance at the back for any exposure through the back was about 10 seconds with ferrous oxalate at C. Now , under these conditions , the halfperiod of development , i.e. , for , was minutes .
Hence , the error due to incomplete penetration is not of a very large order , and , moreover , reasons will be given later for assuming a chemical-induction generally greater than any diffusion-induction .
However , for accurate comparison of velocities , in order to avoid an erroneous time-zero , the is the most suitable .
In development the temperature-coefficient has been found an inadequate criterion for distinguishing diffusion from chemical-velocity .
Such a criterion , however , we believe to exist in the action of soluble bromides , and in a discussion of this and the reversibility of development we hope to * Senter , loc. cit. , p. 203 ; see also Ostwald-Luther , ' Physico-chem .
p. 455 .
The Theory of Photographic Processes .
show that the development process probably takes place in general in two phases , in the first period the chemical-velocity being slow compared with diffusion , in the second the contrary holding .
It is the velocity of the second pel'iod which is usually measured .
In conclusion we have much pleasure in expressing our great thanks to Sir William Ramsay , F.R.S. , for his interest in the investigation .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE . .
I to are from preparations as described on p. 217 , etc. Fig. V was photographed directly from the Plate and shows the grains in siiu ; the large " " aggregates\ldquo ; are as much due to superposition of grains as to physical fusion .
and Soc. oc .
, vol. , Flntc ) 4 .
III IV I , Il , I , ditto ditto ditto in Mg .
, See and C.M.S. , de in NflO FeOx at C. Mg .
, C. 900 .

