332 .
] R. Shida .
Magnetic Susceptibility .
285 I \#171 ; Rypenni6iit\#163 ; tl Determinations of MftgnGtic Susceptibility and of Maximum Magnetisation in Absolute Measure .
" By R. Shida , Thomson Experimental Scholar , University Glasgow .
Communicated by Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received October 10 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) I This paper contains the results of a series of experimental determinations of the magnetisation , magnetic susceptibility , \amp ; c. , of afferent specimens of iron and steel , in centimetre gramme second mits , by means of the direct magnetoraetric method shown to me by Sir William Thomson , as founded upon a method originated by Coulomb , nd mathematically discussed by Green .
j A number of thin wires ( from No. 20 to 22 B.W.G. ) of soft iron and steel were tried in the first elaborate series of investigations .
The experiments were varied by varying the strength of the mag-aetising force through a wide range ; and for each magnetising force , md for each wire , the experiment was commenced by subjecting the wire to the application and removal of a longitudinal stress a certain pmmber of times in succession ( that is , " ons and offs ' ) , while the magnetisation and magnetic susceptibility of the wire were determined for each degree of magnetising force , and both while the wire was actually under the influence of a constant pull ( a case to be denoted by " on " ) , and while it was free from a pull ( a case to be denoted by " off " ) .
In the case of soft iron wires , the effects of suddenly reversing the magnetising force , and of " ons and offs " after the reversal of the force , were also investigated .
Some interesting and remarkable results followed from these experiments ; and the evaluations , made from these results , of the intensity of magnetisation and magnetic susceptibility , are carefully tabulated , and also represented graphically , for the sake of comparison , in two sets of curves\#151 ; one , which shows the intensity of magnetisation , that is to say , in which the abscissae are proportional to the magnetising force land the ordinates to the intensity of magnetisation ; and the other , which shows the magnetic susceptibility , that is to say , in which the abscissae and ordinates are respectively proportional to the force and the susceptibility .
The curves of the intensity of magnetisation show that the effects of " ons and offs , " in augmenting the magnetisation of soft iron wires , are astonishingly great for low magnetising forces , and that , as the latter is gradually increased , the wires seem to lose their retentiveness gradually , so much so , in point of fact , that when the i magnetising force exceeds a certain value ( 60 c.g.s. or so ) the operation of " ons and offs " produces no permanent magnetisa- 286 R. Shida .
Determinations [ Nov. 23 tional effect ; whereas , for a magnetising force below that valne , the simple reversal of that force is not so effective as to annul the pey i , manent effects of " ons and offs , " or even to reverse the magnetic polarities of the wires .
But an equally , if not more , remarkable result is found in the fact that the intensity of magnetisation of soft iron wires is greater or less while it is pulled than while it is unpulled according as the magnetising force is below or above a certain critical value\#151 ; a result which confirms that given in Sir William Thomson 's paper on the " Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals , " Part VII .
It is quite evident , however , that this- critical value is different , not only for different kinds of soft iron wire , but for different amounts of the pull to which the wire is subjected .
The singularity of the existence of a critical point in a soft iron wire is only intensified by the fact that , whilst the permanent magnetisational effects of " ons and offs " on a wire of soft iron and of steel ( pianoforte wire at least ) are similar in kind , there is found no such thing as a critical point in the latter , in which the magnetisation is greater in the case of " off " than in the case of " on " for every degree of magnetising force . .
For high magnetising forces the curves of the intensity of magnetisation all become asymptotes parallel to the line of abscissae , proving that there is a limit to the magnetisability of iron and steel , as was first shown by Joule .
In the case of " off , " the maximum intensity of magnetisation is found to be approximately 1420 , both in the soft iron wires and in the steel pianoforte wire , and in the cases of " on , * " it is more or less below that value , the minimum magnetising force corresponding to that magnetisation being in each case roughly 80 units ; while in the glass-hard-tempered steel wire , to which no weight was applied at all , the maximum magnetisation is found to be slightly lower .
The steepness of the commencement of the curves of magnetic susceptibility in the case of the soft iron wires is striking , owing to retentiveness ; indeed , the magnetic susceptibility of these wires varies through a vast range .
Taking , for example , the case of the soft iron wire of No. 22 B.W.G. , in which the weight used for " ons and offs " is 8 kilos .
, the susceptibility for the magnetising force ( about *545 ) of the earth 's vertical component ; is roughly 730 for " on " ( 8 kilos .
) and 330 for " off , " it is about 65 at the critical point ( about 15 ) , while it is only about 17 and 17^ in the cases of " on " and " off " respectively for the minimum magnetising force ( about 80 ) corresponding to the maximum magnetisation .
On the other hand , the susceptibility-curves for the steel wires are neither so steep nor so regular as those for the iron wires , but have a few maxima and minima ; it is , however , all but certain that by using a heavier weight than the one actually used for " ons and offs , " these irregularities in the curves can be got rid of , and at the same time , the magnetic sus287 ' 1882 .
] of Magnetic Susceptibility .
" tibility of the steel wires for low magnetising forces can be greatly ncreased .
Further details regarding these interesting points are aifficult to describe in a few words , but can readily be understood on -eference to the paper itself .
The results of the experiments performed upon the magnetisation \gt ; f somewhat thick bars ( from *9 to '95 square centim. in section ) of malleable iron , hard-tempered steel , and cast-iron , are also recorded Ely in this paper .
The intensity of magnetisation of each bar for various magnetising forces under different circumstances , is shown by .Ueans of curves , of which the " direct-curves " represent the results Obtained by beginning with a low magnetising force , which was Gradually increased to such a high degree of strength as to magnetise lie bar to saturation ; while the " return-curves " represent the results arrived at by coming down from a large magnetising force to smaller and smaller forces , passing through the zero , and gradually Woing up to a large magnetising force on the negative side of the zero .
The direct-curves prove that the intensity of magnetisation of the isteel bar is slightly greater , at least for high magnetising forces , than that of the cast-iron bar , but is vastly smaller than that of the malleable iron bar for all magnetising forces .
The maximum intensity of imagnetisation of the soft iron , steel , and cast-iron bar , is found to be approximately 1,330 , 860 and 770 respectively ; while the smallest magnetising force giving that magnetisation is roughly 190 , 4o0 , and 400 respectively .
The difference in the intensity of magnetisation of these bars is , no doubt , due to the fact that the soft iron bar is far superior in respect to magnetisability to both the hard-tempered steel bar and the cast-iron bar ; although the difference that exists between the soft iron bar and the wires in the intensity of magnetisation for all magnetising forces is probably due mainly to the effects of the dimensions of the bar , as has been mathematically demonstrated by Green .
But the chief point of interest lies in the return-curves ; they show that in the case of each bar the magnetisation does not reverse until the magnetising force exceeds a certain negative value , and that this value is considerable even in the case of the soft iron bar , considerably greater in the case of the cast-iron bar , and still greater \#151 ; enormously greater\#151 ; in the case of the steel bar .
Am illustration of the beauty of this magnetometric method by means of curves showing the change in the distribution of magnetism in a wire corresponding to the change in the magnetising force to which it is subjected , draws the paper to a close .
The curves decidedly show that the magnetisation of the wire for a low magnetising force is far from being solenoidal , being stronger towards the centre , but that as the magnetising force is made higher and higher the distribution of magnetism in the wire tends more and more to uniformity , until it attains nearly , if indeed not quite , a solenoidal state 288 Prof. A. R. Forsyth .
[ Nov. when the magnetising force is so high as to give the wire the maxi* mum magnetisation ; thus confirming beyond all doubt what has been pointed out theoretically by Thomson ( " Electrostatics and Magnetism , " S 667 ) and indicated experimentally by Rowland .
III .
" On Abel 's Theorem and Abelian Functions .
" By A. R. Forsyth , B.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Professor of Mathematics in University College , Liverpool .
Communicated by Professor Cayley , F.R.S. Received October 28 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The present paper is divided into two sections .
The object of Section I is to obtain an expression for an integral more general than , but intimately connected with , that occurring in Abel 's theorem .
The latter , as enunciated by Mr. Row in his memoir in the Phil. Trans. , 1881 , is as follows:\#151 ; If 2/ )=0 be a rational algebraical equation between and y , then an expression .can always be found for " \#166 ; |* T5 j where f(x ) is a function of a ; , only , U is a rational algebraical integral function of x and y , and the upper limits of the series of integrals are the roots of the eliininant with regard to y of x(a ?
, y)\#151 ; 0 and a function 0(x , y ) .
In the case here considered two equations of the degrees m and n respectively between three variables F y\gt ; 2)=0 Fw(aj , y , =0 are given ( these alone being treated , as subsequent generalization to the case of r equations between r\#151 ; 1 dependent variables and one independent is obvious ) ; and an expression is obtained for ^ f TTdaJ VwJ^yf5 ) ' j the upper limits of the integrals being given by the roots of the \#166 ; equation arrived at by the elimination of x and y between Fwl , F ?
t and an arbitrary equation F*(a , y , \lt ; 0=0 ,

