405 1879 .
] Characters of the Pelvis in the Mammalia , Sfc .
term of a series of smaller-brained OrnithodelpIda .
Among the higher Vertebrata , I think that there is strong reason to believe that edentulous animals are always modifications of toothed forms .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 8 .
Figs. 1 to 9 .
The left half of the pubic arch in Salamandra ( fig. 1 ) , Iguana ( fig. 2 ) , Crocodilus ( fig. 3 ) , Ornithorhynchus ( fig. 4 ) , Echidna ( fig. 5 ) , Lepus ( fig. 6 ) , Compsognathus ( fig. 7 ) , Laosaurus ( fig. 8 ) , and Apteryx ( fig. 9 ) .
The letters have the same signification throughout .
II .
ilium , Pb .
pubis , Is .
ischium , epipubis , S. a. sacral axis , ip .
a. ilio-pectineal axis , Ob .
a. obturator axis , II .
a. iliac axis , Sy .
p. } Sy .
I.r indicate the extent to which the pubes and the ischia unite respectively in their ventral symphyses ; p. p. pectineal process , t. p. tuberosity or spine of the pubis , m. p. metischial process or tuberosity of the ischium , Cl. os cloacae in Iguarbfi .
Figs. 10,11 .
Dorsal and ventral views of the ventral half of the pelvis of Salamandra maculosa ( x4 ) .
The letters as before , except JEpp.1 Epp 2 , right and left rami of the epipubis or ypsiloid cartilage , Ob .
n. foramen of the obturator nerve , s. trace of a suture between the ischium and the pubis on the right side , Ac .
acetabulum .
Fig. 12 .
Ventral aspect of the pelvis of a small Crocodilus acutus and the hinder-most abdominal false ribs , of the natural size .
The obturator nerve { Ob .
n. ) perforates the aponeurosis , which fills up the rhomboidal space between the ischia and the pubes , on the inner side of the pubis .
Sy .
p. 1 .
the ligamentous union of the pubes .
Fig. 13 .
Dorsal aspect of the epipubis and the muscles connected with it in Salamandra maculosa .
On the left side , the transversalis and the muscle C. are removed .
Fig. 15 .
The same , all the muscles but the external oblique being removed .
Fig. 14 .
The epipubis and the adjacent muscles in Ornithorhynchus .
R. rectus abdominus , Pie .
pyramidalis , O. e. obliquus externus , Trs .
transversus , l. a. linea alba , f. fascia , extending between the two rami of the epipubis in Salamandra , P.l. the representative of Poupart 's ligament , i. r. inguinal ring , A. JB .
C. muscles of Salamapdra described in the text .
A. and C. together appear to be the pubio-m\amp ; rsupial of Dugfes : -B .
is the hebosteo-glossus of von Siebold .
March 13 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; Lord Rayleigh .
The Influence of [ Mar. 13 , I. " The Influence of Electricity on Colliding Water Drops .
" , By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received February 27 , 1879 .
It has been known for many years that electricity has an extraordinary influence upon the behaviour of fine jets of water ascending in a nearly vertical direction .
In its normal state a jet resolves itself into drops , which even before passing the summit , and still more after passing it , are scattered through a considerable width .
When a feebly electrified body is brought into its neighbourhood , the jet undergoes a remarkable transformation , and appears to become coherent ; but under more powerful electrical action the scattering becomes even greater than at first .
The second effect is readily attributed to the mutual repulsion of the electrified drops , but the action of feeble electricity in producing apparent coherence has been a mystery hitherto .
It has been shown by Beetz that the coherence is apparent only , and that the place where the jet breaks into drops , is not perceptibly shifted by the electricity .
By screening various parts with metallic plates , Beetz further proved that , contrary to the opinion of earlier ; observers , the seat of sensitiveness is not at the root of the jet where ] it leaves the orifice , but at the place of resolution into drops .
As in Sir W. Thomson 's water-dropping apparatus for atmospheric electricity , the drops carry away with them an electric charge , which may be collected by receiving the water in an insulated vessel .
I have lately succeeded in proving that the normal scattering of a nearly vertical jet is due to the rehound of the drops when they come into collision with one another .
Such collisions are inevitable in consequence of the different velocities acquired by the drops under the action of the capillary force , as they break away irregularly from the continuous portion of the jet .
Even when the resolution is regularised by the action of external vibrations of suitable frequency , as in the beautiful experiments of Savart and Plateau , the drops must still come into contact before they reach the summit of their parabolic path .
In the case of a continuous jet the " equation of continuity " shows that as the jet loses velocity in ascending , it must increase in section .
When the stream consists of drops following the same path in single file , no such increase of section is possible , and then the constancy of the total stream requires a gradual approximation of the drops , which in the case of a nearly vertical direction of motion cannot stop short of actual contact .
Regular vibration has , however , the effect of postponing the collisions and consequent scattering of the drops , and in the case of a direction of motion less nearly vertical may prevent them altogether .
Electricity on Colliding Water Drops .
1879 .
] Under moderate electrical influence there is no material change in the resolution into drops , nor in the subsequent motion of the drops up to the moment of collision .
The difference begins here .
Instead of rebounding after collision , as the unelectrified drops of clean water generally or always do , the electrified drops , and thus the jet is no longer scattered about .
When the electrical influence is more powerful , the repulsion between the drops is sufficient to prevent actual contact , and then of course there is no opportunity for amalgamation .
These experiments may be repeated with extreme ease and with hardly any apparatus .
The diameter of the jet may be about inch , and may be obtained either from a hole in a thin plate or from a drawn-out glass tube .
I have generally employed a piece of glass tube fitted at the end with a perforated tin plate , and connected with a tap by india-rubber tubing .
The pressure may be such as to cause the jet to rise 18 or 24 inches , or even more .
A single passage of a rod of gutta-percha , or of sealing-wax , along the sleeve of the coat is sufficient to produce the effect .
The seat of sensitiveness may be investigated by exciting the extreme tip only of a glass rod , which is then held in succession to the root of the jet and to the place of resolution into drops .
An effect is observed in the latter but not in the former position .
Care must be taken to use an electrification so feeble as to require close proximity for its operation , otherwise the discrimination of the positions will not be distinct .
The behaviour of the colliding drops becomes apparent under instantaneous illumination .
I have employed sparks from an induc-torium , whose secondary terminals were connected with the coatings of a Leyden jar .
The jet should be situated between the sparks and the eye , and the observation is facilitated by a piece of ground glass held a little beyond the jet , so as to diffuse the light ; or the shadow of the jet may be received on the ground glass , which is then held as close as possible on the side towards the observer .
If the jet be supplied from an insulated vessel , the coalescence of colliding drops continues for a time after the removal of the influencing body .
This is a consequence of the electrification of the vessel .
If the electrified body be held for a time pretty close to the jet , and be then gradually withdrawn , a point may be found where the rebound of colliding drops is re-established .
A small motion to or from the jet , or a discharge of the vessel by contact of the finger , again induces coalescence .
Although in these experiments the charges on the colliding drops are undoubtedly of the same name , it appeared to me very improbable that the result of contact of two equal drops , situated in the open , could be affected by any strictly equal electrifications .
At the same time an opposite opinion makes the phenomena turn upon the very small Lord Rayleigh .
Influence of [ Mar. 13 , differences of electrification due either to irregularities in the drops or to differences of situation , and is at first difficult of acceptance in view of the efficiency of such very feeble electric forces .
Fortunately I am able to bring forward additional evidence bearing upon this point .
When two horizontal jets issue from neighbouring holes in a thin plate , they come into collision for a reason that I need not now stop to explain , and after contact they frequently rebound from one another without amalgamation .
This observation , which I suppose must have been made before , allowed me to investigate the effect of a passage of electricity across two contiguous water surfaces .
The jets that I employed were of about TXT inch in diameter , and issued under a moderate pressure ( 5 or 6 inches ) from a large stoneware vessel .
Below the place of rebound , but above that of resolution into drops , was placed a piece of insulated tin plate in connexion with a length of gutta-percha-covered wire .
The source of electricity was a very feebly excited electrophorous , whose cover was brought into contact with the free end of the insulated wire .
When both jets played upon the tin plate , the contact of the electrified cover had no effect in determining the union , but when only one jet washed the plate , union instantly followed the communication of electricity , and this notwithstanding that the jets were already in communication through the vessel .
The quantity of electricity required is so small that the cover would act three or even four times without being re-charged , although no precautions were taken to insulate the reservoir .
In subsequent experiments the colliding jets , about inch in diameter , issued horizontally from similar glass ' nozzles , formed by drawing out a piece of glass tubing and dividing it with a file at the narrowest part .
One jet was supplied from the tap , and the other from the stoneware fiottle placed upon an insulating stool .
The sensitiveness to electricity was extraordinary .
A piece of rubbed guttapercha brought near the insulated bottle at once determined the coalescence of the jets .
The influencing body being held still , it was possible to cause the jets again to rebound from one another , and then a small motion of the influencing body to or from the bottle again induced coalescence , but a lateral motion without effect .
If an insulated wire be in connexion with the contents of the bottle , similar effects are produced when the electrified body is moved in the neighbourhood of the free end of the wire .
With care it is possible to bring the electrified body into the neighbourhood of the free end of the wire so slowly that no effect is produced ; a sudden movement of withdrawal will then usually determine the coalescence .
Hitherto statical electricity has been spoken of ; but the electromotive force of even a single Grove cell is sufficient to produce these phenomena , though not with the same certainty .
For this purpose one pole is connected through a contact key with the interior of the 1879 .
] Electricity on Colliding Water Drops .
409 stoneware bottle , the other pole being to earth .
If the fingers be slightly moistened , the body may be thrown into the circnit , apparently without diminution of effect. .
This perhaps ought not to surprise us , as in any case the electricity has to traverse several inches of a fine column of water .
On the other hand , it appeared that most of the electromotive force of the Grove cell was necessary .
Further experiment showed that even the discharge of a condenser charged by a single Grove cell was sufficient to determine coalescence .
Two condensers were used successively ; one belonging to an in-ductorium by Lad , the other made by Elliott Brothers , and marked " Capacity .S .
Farad .
" Sometimes even the " residual charge " sufficed .
It must be understood that coalescence of the jets would sometimes occur in a capricious manner , without the action of electricity or other apparent cause .
I have reason to believe that some , at any rate , of these irregularities depended upon a want of cleanness in the water .
The addition to the water of a very small quantity of soap makes the rebound of the jets impossible .
The last observation led me to examine the behaviour of a fine vertical jet of slightly soapy water ; and I found , as I had expected , that no scattering took place .
Under these circumstances the approach of a moderately electrified body is without effect , but a more powerful influence scatters the drop as usual .
The apparent coherence of a jet of water when the orifice is oiled was observed by Fuchs , and appears to have been always attributed to a diminution of adhesion between the jet and the walls of the orifice .
Some further details on this subject , and other investigations respecting the phenomena of jets , are reserved for another communication , which I hope soon to be able to present to the Royal Society ; but I cannot close without indicating the probable application to meteorology of the facts already mentioned .
It is obvious that the formation of rain must depend very materially upon the consequences of encounters between cloud particles .
If encounters do not lead to contacts , or if contacts result in rebounds , the particles remain of the same size as before ; but , if the issue be coalescence , the bigger drops must rapidly increase in size and be precipitated as rain .
How , from what has appeared above we have every reason to suppose that the results of an encounter will be different according to the electrical condition of the particles , and we may thus anticipate an explanation of the remarkable but hitherto mysterious connexion between rain and electrical manifestations .
VOL. XXVIII .

