]\gt ; Cathode rays produced within a discharge tube were first led out into the open air successfully by Lenard , who observed that after escaping through a thin aluminium window , they were able to penetrate several millimetres of air at ordinary pressures .
Lenard observed the of his rays in air by making use of the fact that their track was luminous ; in the apparatus indicated in fig. 2 , the range of the rays is deduced from the ionisation they FIG. 2 .
produce .
It is assumed that a cathode particle may be regarded as having been reduced to rest when it has lost the power of ionising , an assumption perfectly legitimate for the present purpose .
* This is more the next paper .
The outside of the chamber and A were charged to a potential of 100 volts , while the collecting electrode was connected to earth through the galvanometer .
From a knowledge of the thickness of the window and the velocity of the incident beam , the velocity of the speediest rays entering the ionisation chamber can be calculated from 3 ) .
It is clear that it is this maximum speed which determines in 4 ) .
The apparatus shown in the figure is capable of being used in two distinct ways .
We can either alter the distance between the plates and note when further increase of at constant pressure produces no increase in ionisation , we keep the distance between the plates constant and determine the lowest pressure necessary to yield the greatest possible ionisation .
The latter method was adopted on account of its greater simplicity .
If is this pressure above which the ionisation is independent of the pressure and is the normal atmospheric pressure , then where is the actual distance between the plates .
Unfortunately , it is impossible to construct rqally satisfactory pressureionisation curves ( as Beatty has done , using secondary cathode rays ) from which to determine with accuracy , the reason being that it.is not possible to keep everything steady long enough to go over the whole curve .
The method finally adopted was to start with the pressur high enough to oompletely absorb the rays and then to exhaust the chamber very gradually .
The galvanometer deflection remains constant until the pressure is ?
when it commenoes to diminish .
By taking the mean of a number of

