2 .
" On the Chemical Analysis of the contents of the Thoracic Duct in the Human Subject .
" By George Owen Rees , M.D. , Phy sician to the Northern Dispensary .
Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. The author , availing himself of a favourable opportunity which presented itself of examining the contents of the thoracic duct in a human subject , procured an hour and a quarter after death by hanging , to the amount of six fluid drachms , obtained by analysis the following result : ?
Water , per cent. 90*48 Albumen , with traces of fibrinous matter ... 7*08 Aqueous extractive , or Zomodine .
2*56 Alcoholic extractive , or Osmazome .
0*52 Alkaline chloride , carbonate and sulphate , with traces of phosphate , and oxide of iron .
0*44 Fatty matters .
0*92 100The fatty matters possessed the same general characters as those of the blood , except that they did not contain phosphorus , as appeared from their yielding an alkaline , instead of an acid ash by in ?
cineration .
The aqueous extractive differed from that of the blood by giving a ferruginous ash .
The salts obtained by incineration from the alcoholic extractive yielded a larger proportion of alkaline carbonate than those of the blood .
The author is confirmed , by the experiments he made on the present occasion , in his former views ' concerning the cause of the white colour of the chyle , which he ascribes to the presence of opake white salivary matter as one of its constituents .
The author then gives the results of his microscopical examination of the globules of the chyle , which he finds differ totally from those of the blood .
He points out as being remarkable the large quantity of fatty matter existing in the chyle , and consti ?
tuting an hydrocarbonaceous ingredient , which is constantly being added to the mass of blood , and is very rapidly consumed ; as appears from the small quantity of this matter discoverable in the blood itself .
The proportional quantity of osmazome in the chyle he finds greatly to exceed that contained in the blood .

