K z t. 6 Barometer .
Thermometer .
Rain .
I , St 0* at b &gt; tvs } In the House .
High .
Low .
Mean , Mean .
Inches .
29,56 27 38 43 5S 49 58 47 5 49 34 26 Abroad .
High , Low .
Mean , Lyndon .
Highest .
Lowest .
Inches .
1,91 3 The winter was in general an open one ; about a week 's frost at the beginning of the year , the rains less than tl ey had been , yet at times enough to keep it very clirty .
The latter end of January , and the month of February were mild and fine , and the birds singing , but it was windy at times , and more so ila IQ4arcll , which was a very uncertain month being alternately windy , finey wern and at the etld frosty ; and thet first of April there came a great snow , the only considerable one this willter , and was followed by floods ful : several days ( Ot , ether , and a very backening season .
This great SI1OW and wet conzing after sI good deal of the spring corn was sowns was a damage to the crops S and the three following months being very dryS and just in the long daysn the ground cracked and burnt very much , and 3nany of the spring crops *vere very smalln both for hay , strav , and corn ; the wheat crop was the best , and that was pretty good .
The former part of the surnmer was cool , and sometimes cold , frequent frosty mornings , even into June S but July was hot and burning , and the fortniglat from July to 18 was uncommotlly so ; nine days out of twelve the thermometer was up to or above 803 and one day it was 89 ; this I think I never knew before , either for height or continuance , unless it was so in that hottest of summers 17S ' This hot dry time hindered the sowing or coming up of turnips , which were late and dear this year .
The hay , except on some moist meadows , was very light , but well gotten , as was also all the grain , but very clear , especially the sprilag corn .
This sumnzer was complained of as dry , but it was so only the three naonths May , June , and July S there was only the quantity of one month 's rain in those three months , andsthat being just iz the long daysn in the high StZOlig SUN , and when all the crops should be in their greatest gronvth , they &lt; were much hurt by it , and perhaps the more so for having beerF before oversoaked with snow and wet .
The latter part of ad-e summer was very fine , rain enough to make the grass grow , and fine enougll to get the crops in rvellX great eddislles , and more grass than there had been in any part of the summer before .
And when in September and NoveJnber there came ts -o wet months , the cracks and dryness of the ground underneath carried it all clear off .
The autumn also was remarliably fine , calm , mild , arod almost without frost , so that the grass contirlued green till Christmas , which was very useful to the farmers , as it saved their fodder very much , which was very scarce .

