258 Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. T. M. Lowry .
[ June 11 , " The Phenomena of Luminosity and their possible Correlation with Radio-Activity .
" By Henry E. Armstrong , F.R.S. , and T. Martin Lowry , D.Sc , Received June 11 , \#151 ; Read June 18 1903 .
[ Dynamic isomerism in relation to luminous phenomena .
] The possibility of regarding luminous manifestations generally\#151 ; including radio-activity\#151 ; as the outcome of oscillatory changes in molecular structure has already been pointed out by one of us in a communication made to the Society more than a year ago , * in which the kind of change contemplated was exemplified by reference to the case of nitrocamphor .
As the phenomena of radio-activity are exciting so much interest , it appears desirable to enter somewhat more fully into an explanation of the argument underlying this conception of the origin of luminous appearances .
In the note referred to , it was suggested that tribo-luminescent substances , i.e. , substances which become luminous at the moment of crushing , might conceivably , at the same time , manifest radio-activity .
Sir William Crookes has recently examined saccharin from this point of view , using freshly prepared crystals which one of us had placed at his disposal .
We are much indebted to him for the following account of his observations :\#151 ; " The crystals of saccharin , when broken in the dark , gave off flashes of light .
( 1 ) A sensitive photographic film was covered with a sheet of aluminium foil , 004 mm. thick and some crystals were broken on the foil .
On development no darkening was seen .
( 2 ) A similar experiment , in which black paper was used instead of aluminium foil , also gave negative results .
( 3 ) Some crystals of saccharin were broken close to the sensitive surface of a photographic film .
The flashes of light could be seen through the film .
On development some spots were seen on the film which were caused probably by the light given off .
( 4 ) A crystal was broken near the surface of a barium platino-cyanide screen .
The screen glowed at the moment of the flash from the crystal .
( 5 ) A crystal of saccharin was put on a hard surface and a screen of barium platinoeyanide was laid face upwards on it .
By means of pressure on the screen the crystal beneath was crushed , when a * Henry E. Armstrong : " The Conditions Determinative of Chemical Change and of Electrical Conduction in Gases and on the Phenomena of Luminosity .
' ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1902 , vol. 70 , p. 99 .
1903 .
] Luminosity and its Correlation with Radio-Activity .
259 flash of luminosity was seen to cover the screen over the place where the crystal was broken .
( 6 ) A screen of hexagonal blende was taken and experiments ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) were repeated with it .
The results were negative , except that I fancied there might be a trace of light when the crystal was broken close to the sensitive surface of the screen .
" Although it may be argued from experiment ( 5 ) that saccharin is radio-active when crushed , we have been unable hitherto to detect any effect on the electrometer .
Through the kindness of Dr. Lapwortli we have been able also to examine the menthyl phenylformylacetate recently described by him , a substance capable of existing in isodynamic forms , which is not only intensely triboluminescent but gives out most brilliant flashes of light as it separates from solution , its behaviour in this respect being , if possible , even more striking than that of radium in face of a screen of hexagonal blende to which Sir William Crookes has directed attention .
As a small quantity of this substance was crystallising out from petroleum spirit , no fewer than ninety-two flashes were observed in broad daylight in the course of ten minutes .
Even this substance , however , has not hitherto given positive results when tested by the electrometer .
Triboluminescence .
We have now to consider the nature of the change involved in the production of the luminous flash , in order that it may be clear why , in our opinion , if radio-activity were observed in such a case , it would have been as the concomitant to chemical change .
There is distinct evidence that the phenomena of triboluminescence may be correlated with the occurrence of the form of isomeric change which attends the passage of a compound into the isodynamic* form of lower potential .
Tschugaeft ' , who has examined over 500 inorganic and organic compounds , !
found that about 25 per cent , of the latter gave a more or less intense flash when crushed ; of these a considerable proportion appear to be such as could exist in isodynamic forms .
Only about 5 per cent , of the inorganic substances flashed .
To take the case of saccharin , the two conceivable forms are : '\#171 ; h'\lt ; so2\gt ; nh = c\#171 ; h*\lt ; so'H\gt ; n I his term lias been introduced by one of us as being more appropriate than the term tautomeric to connote substances which are apparently almost equi-potential as they so closely simulate one another in behaviour under ordinary circumstances\#151 ; and are easily interconvertible .
t ' Ber .
Deut .
Chem. Gtes .
, ' 1901 , vol. 34 , p. 1820 .
260 Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. T. M. Lowry .
[ June 11 , Comparable with these are the two isodynamic forms of 7r-and / 3-bromonitrocamphor , for example : C6H , aBr\lt ; 9H-N02 Lu Normal neutral form .
C8H1313r\lt ; ^ Pseudo acid form .
In the solid state , both forms of 7r-bromonitrocamphor are stable : when either form is dissolved in a liquid , isomeric change sets in ; sooner or later , it may be only in the course of a few hours or even days , a state of equilibrium is established , about 6 per cent , of the material being present in the pseudo form and 94 per cent , in the normal form.* The change , however , does not occur spontaneously but is undoubtedly dependent on the presence of a catalyst , as equilibrium is established with great rapidity if a trace of alkali be added ; acids have only a slight , although definite , accelerating effect .
In the case of / 3-bromonitrocamphor , solutions in benzene of the neutral as well as of the acid form which have been kept during several days without undergoing change , when transferred to another vessel , have rapidly passed to a condition of equilibrium\#151 ; doubtless because this vessel had been less successfully cleansed than that first used .
It can , therefore , scarcely be doubted that the change occurs within a complex system\#151 ; one which , it is only reasonable to suppose , constitutes an electrolytic circuit .
The process is reversed when crystallisation sets in ; if the evaporation of the solvent take place sufficiently slowly , the whole of the material is converted into and crystallises out in the less soluble form ; if , however , evaporation take place rapidly , the isomeric change may lag behind the crystallisation and both forms may separate .
In the case of nitrocamphor , the normal form is the one that separates from the solution .
but in the case of 7r-and / 3-bromonitro-eamphor , although the pseudo form is the minor constituent in the solution , being much less soluble than the isomeride , it is one to separate on crystallisation .
The passage of the one form into the other in the case of saccharin , for example , may be pictured as involving the occurrence of changes such as are represented in the equation : c6h4\lt ; ''\gt ; nh , COH \#177 ; NaOH / OH \#177 ; NaOH ^ C6H4/ C \\#153 ; a ^ c6h4\lt ; ' vn Supposing the stable form of lower potential to crystallise out , the crystals , in almost every case , would contain a minute and variable amount of the isodynamic form entangled , as it were , in the mass .
In * Compare Lowry , 1 Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' 1898 , p. 966 ; ' Cliem .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1903 , p. 129 .
1903 .
] Luminosity and its Correlation with Radio-Activity .
261 the solid , reversion to the stable form would take place very slowly .
Presumably , however , sudden crushing of the crystals would afford opportunity for the change to take place and for the sudden liberation of energy\#151 ; hence the momentary flash .
In support of this view we have the fact:\#151 ; 1 .
That the phenomenon of triboluminescence occurs irregularly in the case of saccharin : being sometimes shown by one crop of crystals and not by another , the highly purified substance\#151 ; Professor Pope informs us\#151 ; being inactive .
2 .
That whereas the phenomenon is observed in the cases of three derivatives of camphor which are obviously capable of existing in isodynamic forms , * viz. , P TT T\gt ; P XT GsK^BrC^o C*H"\lt ; 6:NOH 7r-Bromonitrocamphor .
Camplioroxime .
r tt ^C CsHu\lt ; co a-B romocamplior .
it is not seen in the case of camphor derivatives which , although otherwise similar , cannot exist in isodynamic forms , a-chloro-a-bromocamphor : fH \lt ; -( ?
01Br CsHi4\lt ; 6o It is not , at present , necessary to assume that the phenomena are limited to cases of isomeric change ; obviously , changes such as those above considered , may be regarded broadly as dissociative or reversible changes ; and from this point of view , it is sufficient to regard the phenomena as the outcome of a loss of potential consequent on the passage from an unstable to a stable system .
Thus , if Tschugaeff 's statement that a salt such as aniline hydrochloride is triboluminescent be confirmed by observation with the highly purified substance , it will be justifiable to assume that when it is crushed the manifestation of luminosity may be due to the re-formation of salt momentarily dissociated by pressure .
From the point of view here advocated , it would be impossible to construct a condenser from a pure dielectric ; and if the dielectric of a charged condenser were suddenly smashed under suitable conditions , it might exhibit the phenomenon of triboluminosity and perhaps radioactivity .
Fluorescence .
, It was originally suggested by one of us , in discussing the origin of visible colour , that fluorescence is the " beginning of colour .
" Subsequently , Dr. J. T. Hewitt , in a paper on the relation between * Nitrocamphor does not flash when crushed ; perhaps this is because of its texture .
It may be that the effect will be observed at .
lower temperatures .
262 Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr , T. M. Lowry .
[ June 11 , constitution and fluoresence , published early in 1900 , * took the important step of associating the appearance of fluorescence not with the mere occurrence of the quininoid type of structure which one of us has long contended is characteristic of visibly coloured substance , but with the continued development of such a structure\#151 ; in other words , he has regarded it as the outcome of oscillatory changes in the course of which a non-quinonoid compound undergoes conversion into the isodynamic quinonoid compound , !
for example , in the manner represented by the formulae which picture the changes undergone by fluorescein : 'Yyy\|'H x/ X/ XX ^ X/ X/ XX ^ X/ XXX/ o A3 \ c / XH4/ Xo / c6h4.cooh xcck c6h4.cooh According to Hewitt , " all the molecules will be undergoing tautomeric change continuously and frequently , and energy absorbed when the molecules have one configuration will be , to an appreciable extent , emitted when they correspond to the other configuration .
It is practically certain that the vibration frequency of fluorescein is different in the two states , and hence every opportunity is offered for energy of a rapid vibration frequency to be largely transformed into energy of greater wave-length .
" Hewitt obviously does not regard fluorescence as a " flash phenomenon " but as a form of colour , as it were .
While agreeing with Hewitt , that the origin of the effect is to be sought in the occurrence of reversible changes involving the production of dynamic isomerides , we think that fluorescence is to be regarded as something apart from colour , which , more often than not , is superposed upon colour .
Colour appears to be dependent on selective absorption and scarcely to involve any return of the absorbed energy as light .
The character of the colour effect in fluorescence is quite distinctive ; it is not only remarkable on account of its intensity , but there is in it an indefinable qualitative difference which seems to separate it from ordinary colour .
If regarded as a " flash phenomenon " this difficulty disappears .
Hewitt appears to regard fluorescence as the outcome of mere * ' Chem. Soc. Proc. , ' 1900 , vol. 16 , p. 3 ; ' Zeit .
Phys. Chern .
, ' 1900 , vol. 34 , p. 1 .
f In this connection , attention may be called to the following passage which occurs in a note by one of us on fluorescence in quinine salts ( ' Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' 1892 , p. 790 ) :\#151 ; " It is well known that the oxy-salts of quinine are alone fluorescent , salts like the clilorhydride not being so ; it is conceivable that this is due to the inferior stability of the former in solution and that , owing to the occurrence of dissociation , a condition is engendered favouring the passage by dynamic change from the non-fluorescent centric to the fluorescent ethenoid condition .
1903 .
] Luminosity and its Correlation with Radio-Activity .
263 intramolecular wobble .
To us it seems likely that the change is conditioned by a catalyst and that it occurs within a complex electrolytic circuit .
From this point of view the fluorescence of uranium glass is noteworthy , as showing that changes in molecular structure may go on in a solid viscous medium .
It will be desirable to ascertain whether such glass is fluorescent at low temperatures at which it ceases to be viscous .
Phosphorescence .
The phenomena of phosphorescence need to be considered with reference both to cases in which the manifestation attends oxidative or other kinds of chemical change ( the glow of phosphorus , the glowworm , phosphorescent bacteria ) and to those in which it is induced by exposure to light ( luminous sulphides ) .
The former might well almost be regarded as cases of fluorescence , as a continual supply of energy is derived from the continued occurrence of a chemical change involving loss of energy .
With regard to the latter , it would seem that it is not a property of pure substances .
Thus it is known that the production of sulphides which can be rendered luminous by exposure to light is dependent on certain special conditions being fulfilled , that , for example , barium sulphide , which is not sensitive per se , becomes highly so when it is associated with a minute proportion of bismuth.* The phosphorescent medium may be pictured as a complex system capable of undergoing " electrolytic " deformation under the influence of light of high refrangibility : as the changes thus induced are reversed , the energy stored up during insolation becomes liberated and the persistence of the effect is but a consequence of the fact that the change takes place under restraint , in a viscous medium .
Dewar 's remarkable observations on phosphorescence at low temperatures clearly foreshadow the conclusion that the property is to be correlated with structure .
The two most remarkable classes of substances , he states , are the Platinocyanides amongst inorganic compounds and the Ketonic compounds amongst organic .
But these latter are precisely those which are most prone to undergo conversion into isodynamic forms .
It is very noteworthy that , according to Dewar , " water when pure is only feebly phosphorescent but remarkably so when impure .
" * L. E. O. de Visser , * Rec .
Trav .
G'him .
, ' 1901 , vol. 20 , p. 435 ; 1903 , vol. 22 , p. 133 .
In the case of calcium sulphide , the maximum effect is produced when about 1 atom of bismuth is present to 50,000 of calcium .
According to the later paper , bismuth alone does not confer the property , but the presence of a sodium salt in addition makes the mixture sensitive .
264 Luminosity and Radio-Activity .
[ June 11 Radio-Activity .
Pursuing the argument a stage further , it appears to us justifiable to regard the activity of radium tentatively as hut an exaggerated form of fluorescence in which radiations unnoticed by substances generally\#151 ; capable of penetrating substances generally\#151 ; become absorbed and rendered obvious .
Such an explanation , from the chemist 's point of view , is at least as rational as one which assumes that nature has endowed radium alone of all the elements with incurable suicidal monomania , especially as exothermic changes , when once started , have a tendency to occur rapidly , if not explosively .
There seems to be no good reason for assuming that in fluorescent and other ordinary substances we possess screens capable of arresting rays of every conceivable kind ; it may well be that our knowledge of solar radiations is not yet complete ; that radium should be more powerful than other substances is not surprising seeing that of all the elements known to us , it perhaps has the highest atomic weight .
It is also worth noting that radium stands in close relation to the elements which afford luminous sulphides .
With regard to " Thorium and Thorium X , " the facts , as stated by Rutherford and Soddy , do not seem to be incompatible with the view that these are but isodynamic forms of thorium or their equivalent , their behaviour being very similar to that of the isodynamic forms of nitroeamphor , the rate of decay and recovery of activity proceeding according to a simple logarithmic law just as does the conversion of one form into the other in the case of nitrocamphor .
In any case , it appears desirable to approach the problem from this point of view and to investigate the phenomena far more thoroughly on the chemical side .
Finally , it may be pointed out that the properties discussed in this note are common to not a few substances .
Uranium nitrate is not only radio-active but triboluminescent , fluorescent and phosphorescent at low temperatures ; and as Dewar as shown in a recent Royal Institution lecture , it becomes highly electrified when cooled .
Platinocyanides also are triboluminescent , fluorescent and phosphorescent at low temperatures .
That the several manifestations all have their origin in the formation and decay of isodynamic or equivalent systems is therefore by no means improbable .
Whatever the ultimate value of the considerations advanced in this note , they at least serve to show that much may be learnt by further study of the extent to which luminous phenomena generally are to be correlated with structure and structural changes .

