432 Dr. D. Ferrier on the Brain of Monkeys .
[ May 27 3 .
Destruction of the angular gyrus ( pli causes blindness of tht opposite eye , the other senses and voluntary motion remaining unaffected .
This blindness is only of temporary duration , provided thf angular gyrus of the other hemisphere remains intact .
When botl are destroyed , the loss of visual perception is total and permanent .
4 .
The effects of electrical stimulation ?
and the results of destructior of the superior temporo-sphenoidal convolutions , indicate that they are the centres of the sense of hearing .
( The action is crossed .
) 5 .
Destruction of the hippocampus major and hippocampal convolution abolishes the sense of touch on the opposite side of the body .
6 .
The sense of smell ( for each nostril ) has its centre in the subi-culum cornu ammonis , or tip of the uncinate convolution on the same side .
7 .
The sense of taste is localized in a region in close proximity to the centre of smell , and is abolished by destructive lesion of the lower pari of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe .
( The action is crossed .
) 8 .
Destruction of the optic thalamus causes complete anaesthesia of the opposite side of the body . .
9 .
Ablation of the occipital lobes produces no effect on the specia senses or On the powers of voluntary motion , but is followed by a state of depression and refusal of food , not to be accounted for by mere constitutional disturbance consequent on the operation .
The function oi these lobes is regarded as still obscure , but considered to be in some measure related to the systemic sensations .
Their destruction does no !
abolish the sexual appetite .
10 .
After removal both of the frontal and occipital lobes , an animal still retains its faculties of special sense and the powers of voluntary .
motion .
The Society then adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess , to Thursday May 27th .
May27/ 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Mr. I. Lowthian Bell and the Right Hon. Sir James Colvile were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; 1875 .
] On the Liquation of Alloys of Silver and Copper .
433 I. " On the Liquation of Alloys of Silver and Copper .
" In a Letter addressed to the Secretaries of the Royal Society , by Col. J. T. Smith , Madras Engineers , F.R.S. Received April 2 , 1875 .
It has occurred to me that it might be useful , as a guide to future inquiries , if I were to communicate , in reference to Mr , Roberts 's paper " On the Liquation , Fusibility , and Density of certain Alloys of Silver and Copper , " the results of some experiments made by me many years ago , the conclusion to which I was led being that the separation of the constituent parts of an alloy containing 91S per cent , of silver was not so much due to the rapidity or slowness with which the heat of the fluid metal was abstracted , as to the inequality affecting its removal from the different parts of the melted mass in the act of consolidation .
Thus , if a crucible full of the melted alloy were lifted out of the furnace and placed on the floor to cool , the surface of the melted metal within it being well covered with a thick layer of hot ashes , the lower parts of the mass , after it had become solid , would be found to contain less silver in proportion than the upper surface .
If , on the other hand , the crucible were left to cool while imbedded in the furnace , the upper surface only being exposed tt\gt ; the air , except a thin layer to protect it from oxidation , then the lower parts would , after solidification , be found finer than the upper surface .
The variations here referred to are not considerable ; but they sometimes become of practical importance , especially in those cases wherein , as the practice of the Indian Mints used to be , the value of a large mass of coins is calculated by the assay of samples cut from a representative bar , formed by melting together a number of the pieces selected from the mass .
Under certain conditions , different parts of a bar of 50 or 60 lbs. weight , cast horizontally , though composed of metal which , previous to being poured from the crucible , was perfectly homogeneous , might be found to vary as much as 1| or even 2 per cent. A much smaller difference than this might be the cause of considerable loss or gain in he valuation of a large invoice . .
This peculiar action in the cooling of melted silver alloy first attracted lotice by observation of the fact that coinage-ingots , which were about 15 inches high , 2| inches broad , and f inch thick , cast in vertical iron ooulds , were uniformly finer at their upper surface and coarser at their ides and bottom , especially at the comers .
It was at first thought possible that this might be due to the combus-ion of the oil employed to lubricate the moulds causing a sensible efinement of the metal , as the flames were frequently tinged by copper ; \gt ; ut the same increased fineness of the tops of the ingots was found to xist when they had been poured into new iron moulds which had never 2 m 2 434 Col. J. T. Smith on the [ May 27 been lubricated , and also when burnt clay-moulds were used\#151 ; the on ; , case in which the phenomenon did not occur being when clay-mould heated to redness were used , and the melted metal , instead of beinj poured in at the top , was caused to rise from the bottom upwards .
It was also found that , by using artificial means to cool the ingots from their upper surface only , the usual refinement was prevented , and th\lt ; metal might be caused to become as inferior in quality at the top as , ii the ordinary course , it would have been at the bottom .
In short , after many experiments , it was satisfactorily establishec that , whatever form the metal might take , the act of cooling caused i partial separation of the copper towards the surfaces from which the hea was abstracted , those parts of a bar or ingot being the finest which con gealed the last .
The experiments here referred to were part of a series constituting i minute analysis of all the ordinary processes of a mint , with the viev of discovering the unavoidable causes of the loss of precious metal , il any , and measuring their amount .
In the course of the series mort than 3700 assays were made of standard silver under various conditions and the result was a demonstration of the fact that , with the exeeptior of the very inconsiderable proportion left in the sweepings , which mighl be reduced , in silver coinage , to less than the twenty thousandth part no loss whatever ought to occur ; and hence that , if the quantity left in the " sweep " be ascertained and allowed for , every particle of silvei intrusted to the Mint might be accounted for .
This was actually done in 1854\#151 ; 55 by a coinage of more than 24 tons of silver into 3,458,000 pieces , when every ounce was reproduced , even taking into account the " turn of the scale " in assays given in favour of the purchaser .
But this close agreement between the receipts and deliveries of a mint requires not only an exact valuation of the bullion delivered to it , but also an equally exact valuation of the coins produced by it ; and a somewhat curious result followed , as a corollary to the phenomenon above described\#151 ; namely , that as the ingots showed a uniform difference in their various parts , so the laminated straps , formed by reducing the same ingots to one twelfth of their original thickness , show similar varieties , and the coins cut from the straps also .
A minute examination of all the various parts of laminated straps proved that there must be , in all cases , a difference , and in some cases an important one , in the fineness of the several parts of every coin , depending upon the position it occupied in the laminated strap from which it was cut .
On a careful examination of the latter there was found to be , as in the ingots , a systematic variation between the finenesses of the parts rolled out from the top and bottom , and also between the sides and centre .
In like manner , as the centre of an ingot is finer than the sides , so the central line of the strap formed from it is finer than the edges , and this to a degree frequently exceeding the allowed " remedy 1875 .
] Liquation of Alloys of Silver and Copper .
435 of 1 dwt .
in the pound , or the part ; and as the coins were cut in a double row down each strap , from top to bottom , it followed that every coin at one end of a transverse diameter touched the edge of the strap , or the coarser metal , and at the ' other end of the same diameter touched the interior or finer metal .
Thus the different parts of coins composed of standard silver vary essentially in fineness at different points of their circumference .
If we were to call those parts of the coins north and south which , before they were cut , lay in the direction of the length of the strap , and those at right angles thereto east and west , it would give a correct idea of this peculiarity to say that there is no essential difference between the north and south sides of the piece , but a considerable one between the east and west , frequently amounting to f dwt .
in the lb. , and in coins cut from certain portions of each strap to more than 1 dwt .
, or -g^- , sometimes even to 2 dwts .
From this circumstance it is evident that assays taken in the manner formerly used for the pyx examination of coins in some of the Indian Mints , by flattening one edge of a coin and cutting off a part of it for trial , may often lead to its unjust condemnation ; and when the whole work of a mint of many thousands of pounds value is liable to rejection in consequence of an unfavourable report upon individual coins , which more than once occurred in Madras , it is obvious that a more correct method of ascertaining the average fineness of the whole outturn is very desirable .
For this purpose it was suggested that the samples for assay should no taken from the centre of each coin , or by a ring representing the whole circumference .
But the true average fineness of the whole of a arge silver coinage is much more easily and better arrived at by taking \gt ; ut a large number of the coins indiscriminately , and having melted hem together into a perfectly uniform and homogeneous compound , proved according to the following method , which was latterly adopted in India .
While the representative coins are undergoing fusion , a portion is taken )ut in its fluid homogeneous condition and granulated by pouring into ; old water .
A number of the granules are then selected for assay , and dter being carefully dried and weighed , are wholly ( that is , each granule u its integral state ) dissolved in acid .
The silver contained in them is interwards separated as a chloride , and estimated in the usual way , the meness of the mass being calculated by a comparison of the weight of me silver thus ascertained with the original weight of the granules .
When carefully prepared , as above described , there is a near agreement n the finenesses of the single granules , which rarely differ from the mean meness of the metal so much as two thousandths when individually assayed , more than half of them being found within one thousandth , *d the average of a number consequently very close to the truth .

