On the Communication of the Structure of doubly-refracting Crystals to Glass , Muriate of Soda , Fluor Spar , and other Substances , by mechanical Compression and Dilatation .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Lond. and Edin .
In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read February 29 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 156 .
] The subjects here chosen for experiment are such bodies as have in general no power of polarizing or depolarizing light , and the means employed for communicating these properties are purely mechanical .
In the first instance , a piece of plate-glass was taken , and compressed edge-wise between two screws , and was found to polarize light in every part of its breadth , with depolarizing axes , making an angle of 450 withi the edges of the plate .
When a narrow slip of plate-glass is attempted to be bent edgewise , the inner edge becomes compressed sufficiently to produce the effect of depolarization ; and the exterior edge of the curve , by being dilated , also depolarizes : but the characters of the fringes of colour produced in the two cases are different ; since those which arise from compression are such as are produced by calcareous spar and beryl ; but those caused by dilatation of the exterior edge are such as appear from the action of sulphate of lime , quartz , and other bodies of that class .
The author observes , that the tints polarized ascend in Newton 's scale , in proportion as the forces of compression or dilatation are increased .
When two plates under a state of compression are combined transversely , the same phenomena are exhibited as by means of a plate formed of a doubly-refracting crystal .
The effect of two plates of compressed glass , similarly placed , is the same as that of a double llate ; but if they be placed transversely , then the tints are such as are due to the difference of their thick41)0 nesses : but the ' reverse will happen in cacL case if one glass be compressed and the other dilated .
If a compressing force be applied to the centre of a plate of glass , , it will exhibit the black cross and other phenomena to be seen by means of doubly-refracting crystals .
If a plate so compressed be inclined to the polarized ray , the tints of colour will ascend or descend , according to the direction in which it is inclined .
If a plate to which the power of depolarization has been given by heat be compressed , the tints of the interior fringes rise in the scale , and those of the exterior descend , when the axis of pressure is perpendicular to their direction .
The same effects which are thus produced upon glass by compression , are produced in a similar manner upon such crystallized bodies as do not possess these properties in their natural state .
But those bodies which already possess the doubly-refracting structure in a high degree , as calcareous spar , rock crystal , beryl , &amp;c. , suffer no change by any degree of mechanical compression to which the author has subjected them .
Since the tints of colour communicated to polarized light depends on the degree of force applied to glass , through which it is transmitted , Dr. Brewster conceives that a convenient instrument might be constructed for measuring the intensity of forces , which he would call a Chromatic Dynamometer ; and in the same manner might variations of temperature , or humidity of bodies be measured , with the assistance of a little ingenuity , by chromatic thermometers and hygrometers .
In the prosecution of these experiments , the author examined the properties communicated to jelly by variations of its density from drying , and contrived means of giving it permanent power of depolarization , by the constrained position in which it was allowed to harden .
And he found that the polarizing force of distended isinglass far exceeds any which can be given to glass , either by heat or pressure , and is even greater than that of beryl , which owes its power to crystalline texture .
In conclusion , the author expresses his hope that the principles here investigated afford .
a solution of the most important part of the problem of double refraction , by ascertaining the mechanical condition of both classes of doubly-refracting crystals , althoughl the division of incident light into two portions oppositely polarized yet ' remains to be accounted for : and he thinks we must remain satisfied with referring this to the operation of some peculiar fluid , which lie conceives to be the principal agent in producing all the phenomena of crystallization and double refraction .
Dr. Brewster adds , that a recent experiment ( which he does not describe ) upon the polarizing qualities of a body of which the densities vary in regular minute strata , induces him to think more favourably than heretofore of the undulatory system of light .

