13 % Letters from the Naturalists attached to [ D ee .
17 nasal sac .
In Df neither the ethmoidal nor the trabecular cartilages are shown , but the contour of the brain is indicated ; and the manner in which the longitudinal muscles , which represent the anterior myotomes of Amphioxus , are arranged is shown .
The tentacles of Amphioxus are represented by the tentacles of the Ammocwte , the hood-like " upper lip " of the latter obviously answering to the median prolongation of the head of Amphioxus with the two lateral folds of integument which lie outside the bases of the tentacles and are continued back into the ventro-lateral ridges .
The relative shortening of the notochord , and lengthen^ ing of that region of the brain which lies in front of the origins of the optic nerves , in C , as compared with B , is remarkable .
A line is drawn in all the figures through the anterior margin of the nasal sacs ( No-No ) ; another has the same relation to the eyes ( Op-Op ) ; and a third ( Hy-Hy ) passes through the region of the auditory sac and hyoidean arch .
1 , 2 , 3 , hyoidean and first and second branchial clefts of Ammoccetes ; i. , ii .
, in .
, iv .
, \amp ; c. , myotomes of Amphioxus ; My , myelon or spinal cord ; Ch , notochord .
IV .
Letters received from the Naturalists attached to the Transit-of-Venus Expedition at Rodriguez .
Government House , Port Mathurin , Rodriguez , Nov. 2 , 1874 .
Deab Sib , \#151 ; I write to give you a short account of my proceedings and success here so far , in my explorations of the Eodriguez bone-caverns .
I must confess to a more or less degree of disappointment on my first inspection of the caverns ; and you will understand the cause , I think , when I inform you that out of thirteen caves which I found on my arrival , and which I believed till lately to be the only ones , twelve bore evident , and some recent , signs of previous digging .
However , I set to work at once , and , with much diligent search , had found five new caves by the time that we had finished the first thirteen .
Out of these I have reason to believe that , in three of them , no mortal foot has ever been previous to mine ; for the mouths of all were closed up by a falling-in of the rock , and it was by this sign that I guessed at their existence .
We had to work some time at all of them with a big iron mallet before entrance could bo effected .
In one of these caves I believe I found the bones of two Solitaires , without admixture of those of any other individuals .
Of the truth of this I am pretty certain ; for they were clearly the bones of a male and female which had fallen down into a cleft , from which egress to so unwieldy a bird was impossible .
Some of the bones had fallen into dust from exposure to the air , being only partially covered with sand , whilst others had been altogether removed , whether by water or not I could not say , for I found no trace of its action there .
The same cause , decay , which had nearly annihilated 874 .
] the Transit-Expedition at Rodriguez .
133 chers might have entirely removed these .
I found amongst these about birtyr rings of the trachea or tracheae .
Since then I have found a small hook in another cave , to which it was ifficult , from the small size of the entrance , to penetrate .
Into this also slit or cleft from the surface had led , but had since been obliterated , n this I found , I should say , seven " sets " of bones of Solitaire .
These were more or less mixed up together by the action of water ; but hey were still , to a certain extent , in groups , each group being those of in individual .
Amongst these I found a perfect skull , with maxillae attached , and the three parts of the mandible lying close by , four perfect ind several injured furcula , and many rings of tracheae .
I propose soon to try my fortune in a small marsh near here , which looks as if it might originally have been a lakelet or pond .
I am induced to do so by the success that my labours met with in a similar locality in Mauritius .
I have said " near here , " but this is a slip of the pen ; I should have said " near my encampment at the caverns .
" I have found an immense quantity of tortoise-bones , from which I shall only make a selection before leaving .
I have also exhumed a great quantity of bones of smaller birds ; but I rather hesitate before giving a description of their genera .
I am afraid that I cannot send any bones by this mail , as the difficulty of transport is so very great .
I have every week brought back a few bones of Solitaire , but have had hardly any time to put even these in gelatine , without which operation they would not travel with any degree of safety .
I am , dear Sir , Very obediently yours , To Prof. Huxley .
Henby H. Slateb .
[ Rodriguez , Nov. 3 , 1874 .
My deab Sib , \#151 ; A mail being about to leave the island by H.M.S. ' Shearwater/ I now send you some account of my proceedings up to the present time .
I have searched for frogs , more especially tree-frogs , but all the natives of the island tell me that there are none ; and as I have neither heard nor seen them , I conclude that this must be the case .
With regard to lizards , there is a small house-lizard very abundant .
It belongs to the genus Peripia , and is very probably the same as that found in Mauritius .
It is not only found in houses , but also in trees , beneath the bark of which it lays its eggs .
I have been told of a much larger lizard which inhabits a certain part of the island , and have myself searched the spot , but have been unable to find it .
I have also offered a reward for a specimen , but have not yet procured one .
Letters from the Naturalists attached to [ Dec. 17 The same has | ?
even the case with regard to another lizard which lives on Frigate Island , a small island lying off the coast of Rodriguez .
With regard to freshwater fish , there are said to be four kinds viz.:\#151 ; 1 .
A species of perch , commonly called carp here .
2 .
A species of eel , in most points agreeing with Anguilla , but differing in one important point at least .
It undoubtedly enters the streams here , as the specimen which I have was caught about a quarter of a mile above the place whence we get our drinking-water .
3 .
A species of Eleotris , a specimen of which was caught at the same place as the eel .
This fish , however , undoubtedly enters brackish water .
4 .
A species of Mugilus .
I have my doubts as to whether this fish can really be called a freshwater species .
With regard to the Arachnida , I have collected a considerable quantity of spiders , and have got specimens of the small scorpion which is very fairly common on the island .
A large Scolopendra is very common ; but a small species is not so , and I have only succeeded in procuring one specimen .
X have collected a very considerable quantity of insects , more especially of the order Coleoptera .
Perijpatus I have not been able to find , though I have made diligent search for it .
There are two species of land-crab , both of which I have procured .
X have only been able to find one very minute species of freshwater sponge , which seems to be very rare .
I have only found .two small specimens , which , however , came from two streams in widely different parts of the island .
The Vermes are not numerously represented on the island .
There are one or two species of Lumbricus .
There are no leeches in the streams , nor are there planarians either there or on land .
There is , however , a beautiful nemertine , which I have found under stones and wood in damp places .
I have also found a species of Gordius in a stream .
Believe me , Tours truly , The Secretary R.S. GrEOBGE Gttixiveb .
1 P.S. I do not send any specimens home at present , as , being nearly a m spirit , they still want attention , and it is also necessary for me to keep specimens by me , in order to ascertain whether X have already got specimens which X may find .
i74 .
] the Transit-Expedition at .
135 Rodriguez , * ' November 1874 .
gIR)__I send by the * Shearwater ' to-morrow , for transmission by the ail leaving Mauritius on the 12th instant , a packet of seeds of some of e plants of this island ; and , in accordance with my instructions , I ibmit the following short report of my proceedings here up to the resent date .
I have paid special attention to .
the Palms and Pcindani .
Of the former iiere are three species indigenous\#151 ; one of the genus , and two elonging to the genus Areca .
The Pandani present much greater diffi-iilty in their determination ; and I do not yet feel in a position to fix efinitely the number of species , although I rather incline to the idea that here are only two true species .
My collection of the plants of the island ow numbers about 450 species , of which about three fourths are Phseno-ams .
I have made observations with the view of discriminating between he indigenous and introduced vegetation , but there are several plants egarding which I am doubtful .
I have not yet succeeded in finding any narine Phamogams ; hitherto , however , I have not devoted much time - , o the marine flora .
There are no tree ferns on the island ; at least X iave seen none , and , as far as X can learn , none of the inhabitants have seen any .
Perns are represented by about two dozen species ; mosses and freshwater algae are not abundant , but lichens are very numerous , both as species and as individuals .
This flora is by no means so extensive as I had expected ; but the survey of the island just concluded by the officers of the * Shearwater ' shows the island is only about half the size it was previously supposed to be , it being only 11 miles long by 4 miles broad .
The island is a volcanic one , consisting of a succession of lava-flows , radiating from one or more foci in the centre of the island , and now worn away so as to form a series of more or less parallel ridges , separated by deep ravines .
These lava-flows are composed chiefly of a dark compact basalt , not unfrequently becoming porphyritic , and commonly exhibiting a marked columnar structure ; and I have counted as many as twelve such flows , lying one above the other , separated severally , either by beds of conglomerate , or by beds of laterite , or variously coloured clayey beds .
Granite and sandstone do not occur in the island .
At the east and at the west ends of the island occur the only non-volcanic rock in the island , namely coralline limestone , extending in huge sheets over many Acres of land , and also occurring in detached patches on the top of the basalt , often nearly a mile from the sea .
On the northern and southern sides of the island it does not occur ; but on the southern side may be seen some raised beaches , marking upheaval there , as does the coralline limestone at the east and west sides .
Zeolites are common m the basalt in many places , as also several other minerals .
The who e rocks of the island are permeated by iron .
This report is very brief ; Presents .
[ Dec. 10 , but I have abstained from entering into details regarding the botany and geology of the island , leaving that for the full report to be given in on my return .
I trust , however , the above is sufficient to show that I have made some progress towards accomplishing the objects for which I was sent out here .
I am , Sir , Yours faithfully , To the Secretary of Is .
Bayley Baleotjb .
the Royal Society .
The Society then adjourned over the Christmas Becess , to Thursday , January 7 , 1875 .
Presents received , December 10 , 1874 .
Transactions .
BordeauxSociete de Medecine et de Chirurgie .
Memoires et Bulletins , 1874 .
fasc .
1 , 2 .
8vo .
1874 .
The Society .
Boston [ U.S.]:\#151 ; American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
Proceedings .
Yol .
IX .
( New Series , Vol. I. ) .
8vo .
1874 .
Complete Works of Count Bumford .
Vol. III .
8vo .
1874 .
The Academy .
Boston Society of Natural History .
Memoirs .
Yol .
H. Part 2 .
No. 4 ; Part 3 .
No. 1 , 2 .
4to .
1873-74 .
The Society .
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences .
Bulletin .
Yol .
II .
No. 1 .
8vo .
1 The Society.^ London : Institution of Naval Architects .
Transactions .
Yol .
XV .
4to .
18/ 4 .
The Institution .
Physical Society .
Proceedings .
Part 1 .
March 21 to June 20 , 1874 .
8vo .
The Society .
: Milan : Accademia Fisico-Medico-Statistica .
Atti .
Anno 30 .
8vo .
\#166 ; 1874 .
The Academy .
NeuchatelSociete des Sciences Naturelles .
Memoires .
Tome IV .
Party 2 .
4to .
1874 .
Bulletin .
TomeX .
Cahier 1 .
8vo .
1874 . . .
The Society .
a elphia .
American Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Yol . .
No. 92 .
8vo .
1874 .
The Society .
San FranciscoCalifornia Academy of Natural Sciences .
Proceed-'* ings .
Vol. HI .
1867 .
8vo .
1868 .
The Academy.*

