1881 .
] Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
505 Section ii is devoted to the consideration of zonal functions , i.e. , functions suitable when the conditions are symmetrical about an axis .
Section iii deals with the general case , whilst in the last section illustrations of the use of the functions are given by application to several problems , such as the potentials of tores under the action of an electrified ring , or point of electricity , and the velocity potential when a tore moves parallel to itself in a fluid .
Among the results obtained , which may be mentioned here , is the electrical capacity of an anchor ring .
When the section of the ring is not very large compared with the central opening , a very close approximation is given by the formula\#151 ; \/ R2\#151 ; r3 where \amp ; 2==2\#151 ; ----7\#151 ; -----\gt ; R+ v/ S,2_r3 R , r being the radii of the circular axis , and generating circle of the ring respectively .
The approximation is so close that the formula only makes an error of about '3 per cent , when r is so large as ft. If a tangent be drawn from the centre to the anchor ring , and a sphere be described with this for radius , the capacity of the tore measured in terms of that of the sphere is K A-\#151 ; -\#151 ; E +E E ' when R=10r this is *36049 , when R=5r this is *43405 .
YI .
" Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
Preliminary Note on the Beaded Villi of Lepidoptera-Scales as seen with a Power of 3,000 Diameters .
" By Dr. Royston-Pigott , F.R.S. Received January 15 , 1881 .
In carrying out the investigation of the molecular structure of insect scales , under the finest attainable amplification , the discovery has been made that the striated surfaces of these scales , though appearing approximately beaded , are really covered with villi , chenille or velvet pile , terminating in a spherule .
The recognised object of these striae regarded as corrugations is to give strength to a most delicate tissue , which are again supported by across striae .
Upon these transverse striae I have discovered villi erected Mr. W. H. Preece .
Conversion of [ Mar. 10 , , upon them by twos and threes , and summits consisting of a refracting spherule .
This very difficult observation appears to open a new field of research .
The object upon which these beaded villi were first detected is the scale of the Vanessa Atalanta , or Red Admiral .
March 10 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Conversion of Radiant Energy into Sonorous Vibrations .
" By William Henry Preece .
Communicated by the President .
Received February 21 , 1881 .
Messrs. Graham Bell and Sumner Tainter* have shown that , under certain conditions , intense rays of light , if allowed to fall with periodic intermittence upon thin disks of almost every hard substance , will set up disturbances in those disks corresponding to this periodicity which result in sonorous vibrations .
Mr. Bell has subsequently shown that such effects are not confined to hard substances , but that they can be produced by matter in a liquid form .
These discoveries have elicited a considerable amount of interest , and have led to the inquiry whether the sonorous effects are due , as the discoverers themselves surmised , to light , or as the President of the Royal Society , Professor Tyndall , and others have suggested to radiant heat .
Messrs. Bell and Tainter have partially answered this question by showing that the disturbances are not necessarily due to light , for they found that sheets of hard rubber or ebonite\#151 ; a substance opaque to light\#151 ; do not entirely cut off the sounds , but allow certain rays to pass through , which continue the effect .
M. Mercadier , who has studied the subject with great care , f has shown that the effects are confined to the red and ultra-red rays .
Moreover , Professor Tyndall has shownJ that gases , such as sulphuric ether , which he had proved to be highly absorbent of heat rays , while they are transparent to * American Association for the Advancement of Science .
Boston , August 1880 .
t " Comptes Rendus , " tome 91 , p. 929 .
J " Journal of the Society of Telegraph Engineers , " vol. 9 , p. 404 .

