[ Jan. 19 , Prof. J. Dewar .
In a similar way we obtain J dQQ sin 00 ( sin2 \amp ; ) cos2'(233 ) .
January 19 , 1882.\#151 ; From formula ( 226 ) it immediately follows that\#151 ; J dx\lt ; p(x)\ Mb\#187 ; :-+/ 3 p+bi II .
Manometric Observations in the Electric Arc " By Professor Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 1882 .
The experiments recorded in my former paper , entitled " Studies on the ^ Electric Arc , '*together with the numerous observations made conjointly with Professor Living on the spectrum of the arc discharge between carbon electrodes in different gases , led me to ascertain if the interior of the gaseous envelope of the ordinary arc showed any peculiarities of pressure .
Pressure might be caused by the motion of the gas particles , the transit of material from pole to pole , electric action , or indirectly by chemical combinations taking place m the arc .
As any effect due to the above causes must necessarily be very small , a delicate manometer capable of measuring easily the y^th of a millimetre of water pressure had to be employed .
The records of such an instrument in the present series of experiments , are complicated by the indirect action of the hot currents of air passing the poles , and the irregularities in the steadiness of the arc which undoubtedly cause marked variations of pressure ; yet by multiplying and varying the conditions of the experiments , it is possible to eliminate these secondary effects and secure reliable results .
The general appearance of the apparatus used is shown in the diagram .
A and B are two hollow carbons , similar to those I formerly employed in the separation of cyanogen from the arc.i " They must be free from all porosity before they can be used in the experiments to be detailed , and the drilled hole should not be less than 3 millims. in diameter .
In order to fill up minute apertures in the carbons , and render them non-porous , they are placed in a porcelain tube and heated to a white heat in a current of coal-gas saturated with vapour of benzole .
This treatment causes the deposition of a layer of dense metallic carbon over the surface of the tubes which renders them capable of withstanding a considerable interior pressure of air or other gas without \#166 ; exhibiting leakage .
The hollow poles are connected by means of tubing * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 85 .
f " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 29 , p. 188 .
[ 1882 .
Manometric Observations in the Electric Arc. 263 264 Prof. J. Dewar .
[ Jan. 19 , with the two manometers .
Two glass cylinders , ED and GF , 50 millims. in diameter , have each a uniform horizontal tube open at both ends , 2 millims. in diameter , marked GG ' and EE ' , passing through the corks E and G , fitted in side apertures .
When fluid was added to a fixed level , these vessels constituted the manometers .
The tubes leading from the hollow poles have been made of metal or thick india-rubber , and to prevent heating of the tubes and manometer by radiation from the arc , they have been carefully guarded by hollow tin screens ( shown at C ) through which a current of water flowed continuously .
The lengths of tube between the manometers and poles have been varied , and in some cases the tube made into a spiral form has been immersed in water so as to guard against unequal heating .
The little glass stoppers marked D dand Ff were convenient for the alteration of the zero point by the addition or withdrawal of fluid from the vessels ED and GF .
In the experiments water , ether , and alcohol have been used in the manometers , but the largest number of the experiments have been made with ether .
This fluid is most convenient from its mobility , and the only precautions to be taken are to use plain cork stoppers instead of india-rubber , and to have a considerable length of tube between the manometers and the arc .
In the diagram K is a millim. scale divided on glass , and H represents a levelling stand on which the apparatus is placed .
By careful levelling and the use of ether 1 millim. of motion of the fluid in the horizontal tube may be made to correspond to about the 250th of a millim. of water pressure .
In the present investigation as the absolute value of the pressure is not so important as the general variation , I have not thought it advisable to give other than relative records taken with the same instrument at different times ; it is quite possible , however , to get absolute values of very small pressures by means of this instrument , and I have satisfied myself of its accuracy by measuring a series of pressures of soap bubbles of different sizes , which confirm the previous observations of Plateau that the internal pressure varies inversely as the diameter of the bubble .
When the arc passes between two pointed carbon poles it assumes two very different forms ; in one case the envelope of the intensely-heated gaseous materials is well defined , almost spherical in appearance , surrounding the whole of the end of the positive pole , but touching the negative only at a single point , without showing that close adhesion to the pole which is so characteristic of the layer of gas at the positive .
At other times the arc is very unsteady , noisy with apparent blasts of green flame-looking ejections , which generally arise from the positive pole .
These blasts are invariably associated with a great increase of intensity in the hydrocarbon and cyanogen 18821 Manometnc Observations 265 spectrum .
While the arc is in this unstable condition manometric observations are impossible , as the small area of the carbon tube is rarely completely covered by the arc , so that the manometers often record neither positive nor negative pressures during the discharge .
The effect of the hot poles on the registration of the manometers is to produce a small negative pressure when the arc has stopped , due to the passage of currents of hot air .
Many experiments were made to ascertain if a local heating of the carbon tube caused any per-manent pressure .
This was carefully tested by taking the arc at right angles to a carbon tube placed in a block of magnesia so as to raise the middle of the tube to the highest possible temperature .
Under these conditions the manometer connected with the hollow \#166 ; carbon remained perfectly steady , whether the tube was made the positive or negative pole of the battery .
This experiment also showed that repulsion of the enclosed gas in the tubes through an electric charge , had no effect on the manometer .
During the main-tenance of the steady arc , the manometer connected with the positive pole exhibits a fixed increase of pressure , corresponding to a motion of the fluid in the horizontal tube of the manometers employed , of from 50 to 150 millims. , which is equivalent to from 1 to 2 millims. of vertical water pressure , in different experiments and under varied conditions .
The manometer connected with the negative pole shows no increase of pressure , but rather on the average a diminution .
When the arc begins to emit a hissing sound , the pressure on the positive pole instantly diminishes , and when blasts are ejected from the positive in the direction of the negative , the negative manometer which had stood at zero before showed a marked increase of pressure .
If a commutator is placed in the circuit , so as to quickly reverse the direction of the original current , the arc is not broken , but the manometers immediately record a reverse action .
In order to equalise the temperature of the poles to some extent , the arc was taken in the middle of a block of magnesia , but the same results were observed ; the pressure is generally smaller in the hot crucible than it is in air .
When the crucible gets highly heated and filled with metallic vapours , the arc will pass a distance of more than an inch , and in this condition the shorter the arc the greater the pressure .
It was found advisable in these experiments to use a negative pole which had a sharp conical termination , otherwise the form of the arc in the block of magnesia was very irregular , owing to the high conductivity of the hot walls of the crucible .
When the poles are brought into contact in the magnesia crucible , the pressure at the positive instantly falls .
Whether air , carbonic oxide , or nitrogen filled the manometer and carbon tubes the results were invariably the same .
The chief experiments have all been made with the Siemens machine , but a 70-cell Grove 's battery produced the same results .
The use of the horizontal ManometricObservations the Electric Arc. [ Jan. 19 arc is a matter of convenience , as in this condition the manometers are least affected by air currents , bnt the same general action may be observed by the nse of vertical poles .
A thin carbon spatula placed in front of the end of the positive pole at once lowered the positive pressure of the manometer .
This experiment does not prove much , as the carbon diaphragm causes a noisy and unsteady arc until a minute hole is pierced by the current , It is probable that the diminution of pressure may be due to the instability of the arc .
In the same way the action of the magnet on the arc causes an instant reduction of the positive pressure by withdrawing the arc from completely covering the end of the carbon tube , so that this action must be regarded as an indirect one .
A small carbon tube connected with a manometer was inserted into the arc , passing between two solid carbons , so as to take a section at right angles to the passage of the current .
In this condition the arc is apt to be irregular in shape , and to pass rather between three poles than two , but the average records point to an increase of pressure in this position also .
When the negative carbon tube is about 1 millim. in diameter , and the point sharp and the tube short , so as to diminish any air friction , the negative pole manometer seems also to give a positive pressure .
The intermittent Siemens arc shows an increase of pressure at both poles .
It appears from the above experiments that the interior of the gaseous envelope of the electric arc always shows a fixed permanent pressure , amounting to about a millimetre of water above that of the surrounding atmosphere .
This looks as if the well-defined boundary of the heated gases acted as if it had a small surface tension .
This pressure may be due to various causes : motion of the gas particles under the conditions , transit of material from pole to pole , or a succession of disruptive discharges ; and a more elaborate investigation will have to be made before the origin of the excess of pressure can be clearly defined .

