On two Metals , found in the black Powder remaining after the Solution of Platina .
By Smithson Tenant , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 21 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 411 .
] From a few experiments the author made in the course of last summer on this powder , he concluded , that it does not , as was generally believed , consist chiefly of plumbago , but that it contains also some other unknown metallic ingredient .
Since those experiments , two French chemists , Messrs. Descotils and Vauquelin , having likewise examined that substance , found the same new metal ; but neither of them observed that it contains moreover another metal different from any hitherto known .
The black powder used in the process , which is the subject of this paper , was obtained from platina carefully separated from all extraneous particles ; so that the above ingredients , if found , must have been contained in that metal .
The first set of experiments relates to the effects produced by this powder when alloyed with other metals .
It combines readily with lead ; but the compound , even when the lead greatly predominates , is not very fusible .
With bismuth , zinc , and tin , the effects are nearly similar ; but with copper , a strong heat produces a much more intimate union .
The union of this substance with silver and gold produced upon it very little alteration ; but , what is most remarkable , it could not be separated from these metals by the usual processes of refining .
The alloys retain a considerable share of ductility ; and the colour of that which is alloyed with gold is not materially different from that of pure gold .
The next experiments relate to the analysis of the black powder , and the properties of the two metals which enter into its composition .
The method of dissolving the powder was similar to that employed by M. Vauquelin , viz. by the alternate action of caustic alkali and of an acid .
The acid solution was found to contain that particular metal which has been noticed by Descotils .
And of this metal , a considerable number of characters are here described , in addition to those already mentioned by the French chemists .
As to the alkaline solution , which Vauquelin considered as containing a portion of oxide of chrome , it is observed , that though some kinds of platina may contain chrome , and of course exhibit a certain quantity of it in its black powder , yet the precipitate which , upon accurate investigation , is yielded by it affords a very volatile metallic oxide , which evidently has not the characteristic qualities of that metal .
As it is expedient to assign a specific name to every new substance , our author wishes to distinguish this precipitate by the appellation of Osmium , from the strong smell it emits .
After showing in what manner it may be expelled from the alkali by an acid , and obtained by solution with water and distillation , the author mentions many of its relative properties and characteristic qualities .
The most striking test of this oxide , we are told , is the mixture of its solution with an infusion of galls , which presently produces a purple colour , and becomes soon after of a deep vivid blue .
It parts freely with its oxygen to all metals excepting gold and platina .

