]\gt ; 1903 .
] Stress and Strain in the Cross-section of a Bcam .
" " On the Distribution of Stress and Strain in the Cross-section of a Bealn.\ldquo ; By JOHN MORROW , M.Sc .
( yict .
) , Lecturer in ineering .
University College , Bristol .
Communicated by Professor HELE-SHAW , F.R.S. Received October ) Novembe Introducticm .
Our knowledge of the strains produced in materials by different kinds and combinations of stress rests mainly on theoretical con- * siderations .
Much accurate experimental work has been done in the observation of direct tensile strains , but little attention has been given to the lateral strain accompanying a simple tensile or compressive strain , or the lateral strain occurring a bar bending forces .
The latter , indeed , has , perhaps , never before been measured in metal specimens .
For some time past the writer has been making experiments with the object of that instruments can be constructed capable of measuring these lateral strains with accuracy .
The subject is of great interest to the elastician , as it not only provides a method of determining elastic coefficients , but shows the degree of applicability of mathematical results ; and , further , in view of the well-known discrepancies which exist between experiment and theory , the subject is also of no small practical importance .
The work here described is confined mainly to on iron beams , and has had for its objects the following:\mdash ; 1 .
The design of a comparatively simple instrument which can be used for the accurate measurement of the lateral displacements in the section of a beam ; 2 .
The determination of the amount and ibution of this strain in iron beams 3 .
The determination of Poisson 's ratio from the observed lateral displacements .
Description of th App-f } Whilst making some experiments on the lateral constr ction of the- bars , it occurred to the author that , with a modified form of the apparatus then used , measurements of the deformation of the section of a beam might be made .
After trials of several different forms of instrument , and various ways of applying the load , it was decided that a long } ) should be placed in the testin machine , and the readings taken with the mirror apparatus shown in fig. 1 .
The specimen is section * ' Phil. Mag Sixth Series , , No. 34 , p. 417 .
Mr. J. Morrow .
On the Distribution of [ Oct. 27 , in the elevation .
It is gripped by the two AA , each of which is screwed through one of the vertical rods and D. These rods pass respectively through the pieces and , and are rigidly attached to them .
CE and DF thus form a pair of levers pivoted together at .
Any ion of AA , therefore , will be transmitted to extreme ends of and F. Thus if the specimen contract , AA approach one another , and will rise relatively to ; the relative motion of and will be a measure of the contraction of the specimen .
To obtain the amount of this relative motion , two mirrors , and are used .
They are made of specially prepared optically plane glass .
The former is supported on three hard steel needle points , two of which rest on .
, and the third on , as show .
in the plan .
The other 1903 .
] Stress Strain in the Oross-section of a mirror , , is attached to on a vertical spindle , about it can be turned by the fine adjustment screw Wben the instrument is set up , a scale is placed in an upright position in front of the mirrors , and some distance away , and the two images of the scale are brought together in the field of a telescope by means of the screw G. A convenient mark on the image is then taken its an index , and the reading coinciding with it on the other image is noted each time the load on the beam is altered .
From the difference between the readings before and after applying a load , the transverse strain is oalculated across the breadth of the beam .
The instrument may be placed either below the specimen , when the screws AA are used , or above , when BB perform exactly the same functions .
The pressure between the screws and the specimen is maintained by a stiff spring , and the weight of the instrument taken up by attaching thin cord to , which , passing over a light pulley , carries alance weight .
It will be seen that the instrument is free from strains , which vary with the load on the specimen .
The dimension from the axis to the plane of the tilting mirror was 20 cm .
, while that between the centre-line of the set.screws and the axis was 5 cm .
A magnification of four was thus obtained in the instrument itself .
For a long time consistent reading could not be obtained , and it was only after very many trials of the instrument and alterations in its design that the causes of the inconsistenoy were successively eliminated .
The apparatus was very sensivive to vibrations , and it was soon that accurate readings could only be obtained when the machinery in the adjacent laboratories was at rest .
Vibrations caused hy traffic some distance away were quite notioeable .
The most troublesome faotor was probably the small unavoidable tlnount of jerk accompanying the application of the load .
Occasionally this would cause a very slight displacement of the tilting mirror , could not be detected on looking in the telescope , but nevertheless was sufficient to vitiate the acouracy of the eadings .
Under these mstances it was impossible ever to depend on a single observation .
The load was iably applied and removed several times , and if the readings were consistent , and lrned each time to their original value when the load was taken off , they were accepted as correct .
Any impcrfection in the adjustment of the instrument or in the manner of appiying the load was always made evident by the erratic nature of the readings .
Mr. J. Morrow .
the Distribution of [ Oct. 27 , Method of Making the Experim For the first series of expsriments , a long cast-iron bar , cm .
broad and cm .
deep , lvas placed in the " " Wicksteed\ldquo ; testing machine , in the Engineering Laboratory at University College , Bristol .
It was supported on knife edges at each end of a span of cm .
( 36 inches ) , and was loaded in ths oentre in the ordinary way .
At a distance of from about to cm .
from the centre of the span lines were carefully scribed on the sides of the beam , marking the places where the set-screws of the strain-measuring insbrument were to rest .
One of these lines was at the middle of the depth , and the others at distances of , and cm .
, both above and below the mid-point .
The instrument was attached just clear of the ends of these lines , and cm .
from one of the planes of supports .
Thus the section examined was at a distance from the point of application of the load exceeding the depth of the beam , and it was hoped that this would be sufficient to secure immunity from the effects of local strains due to surface loading .
Under these circumstances , each ton applied at the centre would produce a bending couple of 18,694 kilogram-centimetres at the section under observation .
The effective distance between the needle points of the tilting mirror , as given by a reading microscope , was cm .
, and the normal distance of the scale from the mirrors cm .
The total magnification was , therefore , 2632 for the first experiments , but it was , of course , re-determined whenever the position of the scale was altered .
The scale was divided to of an inch , and , with the telescope used , of these divisions could be readily estimated .
The observed numbers are , therefore , given to the nearest of a centimetre .
When taking a series of readings a certain change of load , the instrument was first applied with the points AA at the lowest mark , and a number of readings taken time the load was applied or removed .
The set-screws then moved up to the next , and the readings continued .
When the centre was reached , the instrument was taken off and -applied above the specimen , with the screws BB at the top marks , and observations were continued down to the centre again .
The sheet was kept as follows:\mdash ; 1903 ] .
Stress and Strain in the Cross-section of a Table I.\mdash ; Loads 1 to 15 tons .
Cast-iron Beam No. 1 .
Position of instrument , 2nd line from top .
Index mark , 50 .
Right-hand scale descends when load is increased .
of the The experiments for each load were carried out in the manner described above , and the load at first advanced by ton intervals .
Some difficulty was experienced , however , in obtainin satisfactory results for che first ton , and uItimately the zero readings were rejected and a series taken between ton .
This is mmarised Table II .
Table II.\mdash ; Load to ton.dilferencesMeanscale .
Lateral strainin specimen .
4.68 1.20 The minus sign denotes that the lateral strain was a contraction .
The values , of course , refer to the elastic state of the bar permanent set having been removed far as possible before the readings were commenced , by alternate application and removal of the load .
The experiments were then continued an exactly similar manner , the loads.being increased by tons until 2 tons was reached , and the last set of being taken between 2 and tons .
Fracture took place at .
It showed sound material and occurred about 1 cm .
from the middle of the span . .
LXXIII .
Mr. J. Morrow .
On the Distribution of [ Oct. 27 , III contains the results of these experiments .
At the centre two sets of readings were obtained at each load .
These , in general , differed but slightly , and the mean values are given .
The slight diflerences were probably due to the limits of accuracy having reached .
Table III .
The column headed ' ' Position of the strument \ldquo ; refers to the umber of the mark on the side of the beam in line with which the lment was attached .
A minus sign denotes that the lateral strain was a contraotion .
Distribution oj Strain .
At the lower loads the maximum lateral strain per unit of load added is on the tensile side of the beam , slightly greater thaIl that on the compressive side .
As the load increases , however , the ximum lateral strain per unit of added load in the tensile fibres decreases , whereas that in the compressive fibres consoantly inoreases .
Hence , at fraoture , this strain is very much greater on the compressive side than 011 the tensile .
The curves in fig. 2 are plotted from the second and sixth columns of Table III , and show the increment of lateral strain at different points in the depth of the beam .
The full line refers to loads of :and ton , the broken line 2 to tons .
For the other Ioads the are given in fig. 3 .
They would be intermediate between the two curves of fig. 2 .
Considering the strain curvss for the tensile side of the beam given in figs. 2 and 3 , it will be seen that at the lower loads a straight line is obtained , and that as the load is increased the lines become more and more curved in the direction of decreasing strain in the outer layers .
This curvature is first noticed in Numbers 3 and 4 , but not till the last curve , Number 5 , is it very remarkable .
On the compression side at the Stress in the Cross-section of Beam .
owest load a similar curvature exists ( see fig. 2 ) , and although all the readings were carefully checked , the resuIt was practically the same .
* In Numbers 2 , 3 , and4 , however , the line is straight , tvhilst in Number 5 there is a pronounced curvalure in the opposite direction .
*It has been suggested that this unexpected ture might be accounted for by additional due to the comparative smallness of the distance from the loaded part .
Mr. J. Morrow .
On the Distribution of [ Oct. 27 , The general conclusions to be drawn from these curves are , firstly , chat as the load increases , the increment of lateral strain in the outer tensile layers becomes less , and that this is accompanied by a much increased increment in the less stressed fibres nealer the neutral surface ; and , second , that on the compression side , with higher loads , the increment of lateral strain in the outer fibres increases .
To what extent these actions take place before fracture can only be inferred from the experimental resuIts .
The changes occurred between 2 and tons , that is with a bending moment at the section under observation of not more than four-fifths of that which the beam was capable of resisting before fracture at the middle of the span ; and between these limits the effects noticed become much more remarkable .
The most striking fact brought out is , as will be seen later , that the values of the strains thus obtained are ably lower than would be expected from theoretical considerations .
This fact appeared so important that it was decided to further verify the result by the examination of a second cast-iron beam .
on Cast-iron No. 2 .
The beam used for this further investigation was cm .
deep and cm .
broad .
The span was cm .
as before , and the section examined 37 cm .
from one of the supports .
Readings were taken at the middle points of the depth and 1 2 , 2 4 , and 3 6 cm .
both above and below these points .
The load was varied between and 1 ton only .
In all other respects the procedure of the previous experiments was repeated .
Table IV contains the resuIts in differences of scale readings , the first column showing the distance of the point under observation irom the middle of the depth .
The curve is given in fig. 4 .
It will be shown that these results corroborate those obtained from the beams previously described .
Table Position of instrument .
3 .
6 2 .
4 0 .
2 .
4 3 .
6 Differences of scale readings .
Stress a Strain in the Cross-section of a Beam .
FIG. 4 .
parinoents on a WrouJ-iron Beam .
The following experiments were made on a wrought-iron bar 3 122 cm .
broad and 7 614 cm .
deep .
The span was the same as efore , namely cm .
, and the section under observation was 37 cm .
from one of the supports .
In this case the readings were taken at the middle of the depth and at distances above and below of 1 2 , 2 4 , and 3 4 cm .
The method of procedn1e was exactly the same as that with the -iron beams .
Table from centre 2 22 Mr. J. Morrow .
On the Distribution of [ Oct. 27 , The experiments were carried out with two increments of load , namely from ton and tons .
Table V contains the resuIts both in differences of scale readi11gs and in incremenls of strain per half ton .
The curves are plotted in fig. 5 , and it will be seen that , whilst on the tension side the two curves practically agree , on the compression side the increment of strain is greater for the higher load .
Relations between Stress and Lateral Strain .
In order to appreciate the results of the foregoing experiments , and to compare them with those which would be expected from purely theoretical considerations , it became necessary to investigate the relations which obtain between the lateral strain and the stress producing it , in specimens under direct tensile and compressive forces .
To obtain these relations for the material of the first castiron beam specimens were cut from the less strained portions of the beam itself .
The tensile piece was cm .
diameter , and was of uniform cross-section for a length of about cm .
The ends were screwed , and gripped in the testing machine by the ordinary ball and socket arrangements .
The instrument used very similar in principle to that employed for measuring the lateral strain in the beams .
It has been fully explained and illustrated in a paper published in the 'Philosophical Magazine ' series , October , .
The total magnification lvas , and the load was anced S ton at a time .
The lateral strain per ton of load lvas then calculated by dividing the difference of scale readings by 84540 , and the corresponding stress was kilogrammes per square centimetre .
The results are tabulated and reduced in Table VI ( Appendix ) .
1903 .
] Stress and Strain -section of ) The method of applying the load was similar to that described in the paper quoted above , so that the lateral strains do not include that dne to permanent set .
espec men The ecimen was not tested to fracture .
It will be seen that the elastic lateral strain is proportional to the stress .
The ratio may be expressed Lateral stl.ain per ranlme per square centimetre The compression piece was cylindrical in shape , cm .
in diameter , and about cm .
high .
The measurement ange chan of diameter was made about the middle of the specimen , in order that the effects of an .
suppression of the dilatation at the ends mig ht be avoided .
The load was applied exactly as in the case of the tensile piece .
( Appendix ) contaios the results .
The total magnification was 3002 .
The ratio of stress to strain is not quite independent of the stress .
Near the origin the lateral strain per kilogramme per squate centimetre In conjunction with my colleague , Mr. E. L. .I made a large number of experiments on these stress-strain relations cast-iron .
We hope to publish an account of them shortly .
Some of the specimens used were cast at the same time and from the same ladle as the second beam described in this paper .
In Table VIII ( Appendix ) are embodied the results obtained from two of these , the particular ones chosen giving average and lrly repl'esentative values .
The tension piece was cm .
111 lneter , the compression specimen cm .
diameter and high .
For comparison with the wrought-iron beam the relations n'ere ined from separate specimens of similar material .
In the case of tension the lateral strain has bsen found to be oportional to the stress when within the elastio limit , and the experiments described in a gave , for the material in question , the value for the lateral strain per kilogramme per centimetre .
The wrought-iron compression specimen was similar to those of cast iron , cm .
diameter and cm .
high .
The load was applied by 1 ton up to 2 tons , and then by tons to 4 tons .
The lateral dilatationsz were not quite proportional to the stresses applied .
The results are given in Table IX ( Appendix ) .
The relations stress and lateral strain for all three are shown graphically in the curves of fig. 6 .
The origin of the curve for with Cast-iron Beam No. 2 is to the distance of unit .
* See ' Phil. Mag Sixth , vol. 6 , No 34 , p. 417 .
Mr. J. Morrow .
On the tribution of [ Oct. 27 , Disinbution of in Beams .
Assuming , as in the Coulomb-St .
Venant theory , that the relations which hold between direct stress and lateral strain in tensile and compressive tests are , at the lower loads , the same as those which obtain between the stresses parallel to the axis of a beam and the corresponding strains at right-angles to that direction , the distribution of stress over the cross-section of a beam may be inferred from the observed lateral strains .
FIG. 6 .
Thus , Table III gives the differences of scale readings measuring the lateral displacements in the first cast-iron beam .
In Table X we have the total scale differenoes due to the different loads .
This has been obtained directly from Table III by addition ; and for the zero readings it has been supposed that from ton the displacements would follow the same law as those between 1 and ton .
The actual lateral are then calculated as in Table XI .
They are , given 1903 ] .
Stress and Strain in Cross-scction of a Beam .
by dividing the numbers in Table X by the magnification and the breadth of the beam , and multiplying the result by the scale unit .
By comparin these strains with Tables and , or with the curve in fig. 6 , we can find the direct stresses which must have accompanied them .
These are given in Table XII for loads up to Proceeding in a similar way for Cast-iron Beam No. 2 and for the wrought-iro1l beam , we obtain the second column Table XIII and the last two columns of Table for the actual strains .
per ton , and comparing these with fig. 6 , we get the stresses glven in the Appendix in the third column of Table XIII for the cast-iron beam , and in Table for the wrought-iron beam .
The degree in which these stresses agree with those obtained by the ordinary theory of the bending , as given by Coulomb generalised by Saint Venant , may be taken as a measure of the applicability of that theory .
Thus Table contains the theoretica values of the stresses calculated for the wrought-iron beam , and it be seen that the agreement with the experimental results is not very good at the higher stresses .
The theoretical stresses for the cast-iron beams are given in Tables and XIII ( Appendix ) .
Discussion of !
snlts for Iron .
The theoretical stresses are not calculated for loads higher than tons , as above that point some of the values obtained would be greater than the actual tensile strength of the material .
At the lower loads the lateral strains , and the stresses inferred them , are generally lower than those obtained theoretically .
The amount of this discrepancy can best be seen by compal.ing Tables XII and It is also noteworthy that as the load is increased the results show a distinct shifting of the position of the neutral axis from the tensile towards the compressive side of the beam .
For loads over tons not only is the theoretically calculated maximum stress greater than the ultimate stress the matel'ial will stand before fracture , but the values obtained by measuring the strains are also considerably greater than the maximum lateral strain which occurs in a tensile specimen .
The strain at fracture of a tensile specimen is about .
This is nearly equalled by the lateral strain noted at tons load on the beam , whilst the maximum lateral strain at fracture would be greatly in excess of this value .
Saint assumes that , sinoe all erials are capable of a small * See Saint Venant 's ' Navier ' ( Paris , 1864 ) , p. 178 .
26 Mr. J. Morrow .
On the Distribution of [ Oct. 27 , amount of flow when nearing the point of rupture , the curve of distril)ution of stress over the cross-section of the beam becomes parallel to the plane of the section when rupture commences .
This suggests that the higher lateral strains may be due to the amount of plasticity of the material just before fracture .
In a tensile test no such plasticity can be observed .
This , however , does not invalidate the assumption , as it would be necessary to check the plastic elongation , in ordsr to measure it before complete rupture oocurred .
One efl'ect of the permanent set in the direct strains may be to produce a more or less profound change in the distribution of stress over the section .
This might give rise to the ence of lateral strains , which , though perhaps elastic in their nature , would not ) included in the observed values of the experiments .
It has been pointed out that , when the load on an overstrained beam is reduced , initial stresses may result .
The strain in the outer layer might then be reduced by an amount greater than the real elastio strain due to the load removed .
It appears , however , to be far more probable that the departures from theory which have been noticed are due to the inapplicability of the theory employed ; that is , mainly to the facts that ( 1 ) the Saint Venant solution implies different conditions of loading and end-fixing , and ( 3 ) it is based on an assumption of the absolute proportionality of stress to rain .
In this connection it should be remarked that a different distribution of stress and strain over the section would not necessarily alter the deflection or curvature of the centre line of a beam due to a given bending couple .
The author hopes to deal more fully with these and other questions in a futnre paper .
' Determination of Poisson 's Benling The instrtlment described in his paper provides a method not hitherto ilable for the determinatio1l of the values of the " " stretchsqueeze\ldquo ; for different materials .
The method appears at present only suitable for those materials and stresses to which the ordinary theory of bending may be applied .
It depends on the relation between the lateral strain at any section , and the deflection of the centre line produced by the applied bending couple .
Consider a beam , of uniform rectangular section , supported at the Encycl .
Brit vol. 22 , arbicle " " Strength of \ldquo ; See paper by L. N. G. Filon , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 201 , See Wiedemann 's ' Annalen der Physik und Chemie , ' vol. 52 , 1894 , paper by W. Voigt , p. 536 .
1903 .
] Stress and Strain in the Cross-section of ends , and subjected to bending by applying transverse force the centre of its span .
Let the origin be at one end and let be taken in the direction of the length , the distancs from the neutral surface , the stress at , the load applied at the centre , the deflection of the Qentre line at Young 's modulus for the material , Poisson 's ratio , the length , breadth , and depth of the beam .
If any section , ] , the change produced in the breadth of the beam be measured when the load is applied , and , at the same the deflection of the centre line of the beam at that point be observed , then the angle turned through by the side of the beam and the deflection , 8 , is given by Combining these we obtain an expression from which can be once determined , namely , angle turned through by side of beam .
The left-hand side of this equation is obtained from the mean straight line through the points representing the lateral strain in the beam .
In conolusion the author must express his thanks to Messrs. F. C. tioe and C. M. Rushton for assistance rendered at variotls times during the preparation of this paper .
APPENDIX .
Table ( see fig. 6).\mdash ; Tension and Lateral Contraction of Test Piece cut from Cast-iron Beam No. 1 .
Table VII ( see fig. 6).\mdash ; Lateral Dilatation of Compression Specimen cut from Cast-iron Beam No. 1 .
ents oedivisions)astic o 1903 .
] Stress in the Cross-s(jction of a Beam .
29 Table VIII ( ses fig. 6).\mdash ; Stress and Lateral Straitl in Cast on for comparison with Beam No. 2 .
Table IX ( see fig. 6).\mdash ; Stress and Lateral Strain in Wrought Iron under Compression .
Table X.\mdash ; Cast-iron Beam No. 1 .
fcrent 1 Mr. J. Morrow .
On ) Distribution of [ Oct. 27 , .
Table XI.\mdash ; Cast-iron Beam No. 1 .
Table XII ( Table XI converted to Stresses ) .
esses i indicates compressive stress .
XIII.\mdash ; Comparison of Theoretical Distribution of Stress with that obtained from the Lateral Strains in Cast-iron Beam No. 2 .
1903 .
] and in the of a Table \mdash ; Comparison of Theoretical Distribution of Stress with that )tained from the Lateral Strains in the -iron Beam .
Table -caltulated Stresses Cast-iron Beam

