]\gt ; Dr. W. J. M. Rankine on the [ Rocess , " " On the Mathematical Theory of Combined Streams By W. J. ItANKINE , C.E. LL. D. , F.R. .
Lond. and Edin .
Rcceived Sept. 1870 .
1 .
of this Investigation.\mdash ; The principles of the action of combined streams were to a certain extent investigated by Venturi , and stated his essay 'Sur la Communication Mouvement dans les Fluides ' .
The principle of the onservation of momentum , so far as I know , first explicitly applied to combined streams by William roude , F.R.S. , in a on Giffard 's Injcctor , read to the British Association at Oxford , in 1860 , and published in the Transactions of the Sections , p. 211 .
arious other treated the same problem by different methods , based virtually on the same principle .
A very complete and precise investigation of the theory of combined streams , in every case in which two streams only are , is contained in Professor Zeuner 's treatise ' Das Locomotivenblasrohr\ldquo ; ( Ziirich , 1863 ) , The theoretical conclusions are tested by comparison with experiment , and applied to practical questions , especially those relating to the aratus from hich the treatise takes its name .
The object of the present investigation is to apply principles to the combination of any 1lumber of streams ; and the demonstration of the fundament dynamic tion differs from th en by Zeuner in method , though not in principie , being effected at one operation by the direct cupplicntion of the prinof the equality of impulse and momcntum , instead of by the tion of the loss of energy that takes ) uring the combin tion of the streams .
2 .
and otation ?
, and Suppositions ma de.\mdash ; The sevcrnl streams which are combined will be called before their } component stream formed by their combinntion } be the .
The passagcs which the component and streams flow 11 ill bc } ) cctively the supp/ the .
The } ation of the eams will be to take lace in a lindrical chamber , 1 ) ith its axis ) to the direction of , nhich lvill be called the At otlC cnd of the rc the outlcts of the supply-tubes , which tvill be cnlled the ?
; at the other inlet of the dis- ch -tube , whichnill be called the th .
It be , furthcr , the ) -tubcs so to clircct the coml ) cnt the llozzlcs , so ) they all scusibly ) to cnch other ) to the tnnt strcam .
The ) symbols used as follolvs : for any one of the nponent s:\mdash ; , nrcn of nozzle ; \ldquo ; clocity of flow at nozzle ; , or reciprocal of density at uozzlc .
crnl ) lCllt bc from } olher , wheu , by ffixcs ; as 1 , 2 , 3 , \amp ; c. 1870 .
] JIathematical Theory of Streams . .
the resultant : , area of ; elocity of flow at ; , bulkiness , or reciprocnl of density nt Iuteusities of , in ) on un it ) : the nozzle clld of juuction-ch nbcr ; , at the throat .
be into its on the 11 , by .
The of each strcam is supposed to be stcady .
The fluids may be citllcr liquid , apol o , gnseous , or mixed .
3 .
quation of .\mdash ; The of fluid thnt ters the junctionchamber through a giren nozzle in of tinle is The mass in the snme time at the throat is .
The being steady , following tion m every insttlnt ) fulfilled : . . . . .
( 1 ) and the s of the city of strc of of ] . . . . . .
If the fluids are liquids , of ibly iariable biness , we olume of flow of the resultant stream is cqu to the of the volumes of flow of the component streams ; but if any or all of the stre gaseous , the lues of will depend upon thnt of , and the of upon that of , and ] the chnnges of bulkiness of fluids may take ) in the junction-chamber , of tcmpcrature , .
of condition , or chemic action .
any c my be arded as a cf of the mntunl proportions uf crnl lucs of ; in other vords , of the ingredicnts in strcam .
4 .
amiral of the mass of fluid the the nozzles io a unit of .
The momcn tum of the the tion-chambel ' the ) in the snme is The impulse exerted unit of ) ) the of fluid in the by the pressure at norzlc cnd of the chambcr is A. The backw excrted in the time ou the same mass by the ) ressurc at the -cnd of the chnmbcr is A. By the Dr. W. J. M. Rankine on the second law of motion , the difference between those impulses is equal to the change of momcntum produced ; that is to say , ; ( 2 ) both cs . . . .
( 2A ) this is eneral lamical equatio ) of tkc lbinatio , of any number of of any fluids .
If the preceding cquation , as ) plied to combir]ation of two streams o1lly , be compared with the cquation not umbcre which mediately precedes equation 60 in ZcutGl.'S treatise , it will bc seen that they are virtually idcntical , different in form , 111 ( demonstrated by reut methods .
5 .
Loss of at .\mdash ; If given mnss of any fluid the bulkinees pressure is colltained in a reservoi ) .
, which it is capable of being ) elJed by inwal .
motion of a piston loaded with an cxtcl .
force to the pressure , it is known that the potential cnergy of the of fluid and of the piston relatively to a point at the of the ccntre of of the is expressed by iplyi the mass , the relation vccu s and hich is adiabatic ; that is to say , such that no hent is recelved or g1vcn by the fluid .
IIeuce the loss of energy in the junction-chambcr in each unit of time is givcn by the cxpression:\mdash ; of the , or term , deuotcs the Yregnte energy , actual potenti , of the componcut } as they entcr ; and tlJe secoud , or , expresscs the tot cnergy , actual , of the resultaut it le mbcr .
That lost takcs the form of ible eddies and ) of invisible lnolccular \mdash ; that is , of heat .
The expressing the gregate p of the ] ) onent may be put the following form:\mdash ; . . . .
lf no of total bulkiness the mixture of the ] ) oueut strcams , the pied by a -sen mass of the thxturc is ) the sum of the volumes of its ingrcdients ; so that we ' . . . . . .
1870 .
] Mathematical Theory of Combined Streams .
and the expression the loss of energy becomes . . . .
lVheIl the fluids are all liquids , whose compressibility may be neglected , ; and substituting for the difference of pressures i value , according to equation ( 2 ) , the following expression is found for the loss of encrgy at the junction , . . .
that is to say , in the case of liquids all the energy due to the several velocities of the component streams to the resultant stream is lost .
When the expression is reduced to a single term , it becomes the well-known value of the loss of energy of a single stream of liq , lid at a sudden } largcment in a tube .
6 .
Efficiency of Combined Streams.\mdash ; The of a set of combined streams mriy be defined as the fraction ) the ratio borne the total energy of the resultnnt stream after the combil ] ation to the energy of the component streams before the combination .
It is expressed as follows : \mdash ; ( 4 ) 7 .
General Problem of Streams.\mdash ; In most cases the problem of combined streams takes one or other of the two following forms .
In each of the two forms the areas of the nozzIes , \amp ; c. are given , and also the area of the throat , A. First Form.\mdash ; The quantities ) , besides the before-mentioned areas , are the ) ressure at the nozzles , , and velocities of the component streams , , \amp ; c. The given are those of , 1 , , 2 , \amp ; c. , iu terms of , and of in terms of , a , , \amp ; c. Those functional valucs are to be substituted in the equations ( 1 ) and ; and the soIution of these tions will give the numerical values of of .
In the case of of sensil ) constant bulkiness , \amp ; c. , and are quantitics sensibly independcnt of and P ; and then cquations ( 1 ) and 2 ) bc aratelv solved without ) ectivelyYan( ] Second orm.\mdash ; Lach of the onent streams flows througl ] a hose factor of resistance , , is given , from rate r in which the pressure and the elevation of the above the junctionchamber are given .
The resultant stream flows a passage whose VOL. XIX .
On the Mathematical Theory of Combined Streams .
[ Nov. 17 , factor of resistance , , is given , into a reservoir in which the pressure and the elevation of the surface above the junction-chamber are given .
These , together with the areas , \amp ; c. , are the quantities given .
The functional values given are those of the bulkiness , , 1 , \amp ; c. , and as before ; also the following values of the velocities , according to wellknown principles in hydrodynamics ; for any component stream , ; ( 5 ) and for the resultant slream , ; . . .
( 6 ) The functional values given are to be substituted in equations ( 1 ) ( 2 ) , tvhose solution lvill then give the numerical values of and ; and from these and the other data the numerical values of \amp ; c. and of may be calculated .
November 17 , 1870 .
General .
EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
Boileau , Mr. Busk , Mr. David Forbes , Sir John Lubbock , and .
Mivart , having been nominated by the President , were elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurer 's accounts on the part of the Society .
Mr. Andrew Noble , Capt. Sherard Osborn , and Mr. George Frederic Verdon were admitted into Society .
Anders Jons ngstrom , of Upsala , and Joseph Antoine Ferdinand Plateau , of Ghent , were proposed for election as Foreign Members , and notice was given from the Chair that these gentlemen would be ballotted for at the next Meeting .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following communications were read : \mdash ; I. ' Rcscarches into the Chemical Constitution of the Opium Bases .
\mdash ; Part .
On the Action of Chloride of Zinc on Codeia By AUGUSTUS MATTHIESSEN , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry at St. 3artholomew 's Hospital , and W. BultNsIDE , of Christ 's Hospital .
Rcceived June 23 , 1870 .
( Sce page 71 .
)

