On Magnetic Circuits Electric VI " On Magnetic Circuits in Dynamo- and .
Magneto-Electric Machines .
No. 2 .
" By Lord Elphinstone and Charles W. Vincent , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. , F.I.C. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received March 10 , 1880 .
A large amount of magnetism is retained by the soft iron cores of electro-magnets , when arranged so as to form a complete magnetic circuit : and sparks and other indications of the passage of an electric current can be obtained at the ends of the helix wires surrounding those soft iron cores , each time the masses of iron are separated and the closed magnetic circuit opened .
In order to procure a spark the breaking of the circuit must be effected suddenly , either by a jerk , tilt , or sliding movement .
In the case of the 58 lb. magnet described in our former note , the current that is capable of causing a spark , although only momentary in duration , is found to be sufficient in quantity and intensity to magnetize a small electro-magnet , weighing with its coils between 5 and 6 lbs. , enabling it to sustain its own weight for any indefinite time when suspended by its armature .
When the armature of the small magnet is placed at the distance of | of an inch from its poles , in such a manner as to be free to move , the instant the armature of the large magnet is suddenly tilted or slid off it darts to them , the completion of the circuit of the small magnet being signalled by a smart click .
The rupture of one closed magnetic circuit is thus caused to produce another closed magnetic circuit .
But when the interval between armature and magnet , whose circuit it was intended to close , exceeded 4 of an inch , the former was not attracted with sufficient force to overcome the friction of the table upon which it was resting .
The mode of removing the armature from the large magnet appeared to be of no moment , but the time occupied by the removal had much influence upon the amount of magnetic force manifested in the smaller circuit .
This was particularly the case if there were an interval , no matter how small , between the armature and the poles of the magnet round which the electric current was sent .
For example , if with an interval- of -pg- of an inch between the armature and the poles of the small magnet , the armature of the large magnet was slowly slid off , the magnetization of the small magnet never rose to a sufficient intensity to draw its keeper to itself , whereas , when the sliding took place rapidly , the small armature was strongly attracted as above mentioned .
The largest amount of magnetization was bestowed upon the small Lord Elphinstone and C. W. Vincent .
[ Mar. 18 , electro-magnet by the interaction , when it was held upright , its poles being completely covered by a closely fitting armature .
And it was also found that when thus set up in preparation for the formation of a closed magnetic circuit , the magnetization was produced by a much slower motion of the large armature than when the small magnet had its circuit partly open .
When the circuit was completely closed if the large armature were twisted off by a slow equable motion , in such a manner that both poles were uncovered at the same time , then the small magnet could be made to sustain not only its own weight ( between 5 and 6 lbs. ) but an additional 3 lbs. also .
Daring the passage of the electric current , obtained by the forcing open of the closed circuit , the fall of magnetism in the large magnet itself is checked , the direction of the magnetic polarity remaining unchanged , the current checking or opposing the fall being in the same direction as that from the battery which caused the primary magnetization .
If the ends of the helix wires are not connected together this effect is not obtained .
Electric currents , though of less intensity and quantity , can be produced in the helices of electro-magnets , without altogether breaking up the closed magnetic circuits .
For instance , with the 58 lb. electro-magnet , the circuit being completely closed by its armature , and the helices being connected with a galvanometer , a very slight pull applied to the armature produces a current of electricity giving a considerable deflection of the needle in the same direction as the battery current ; and the stronger the pull the greater the deflection of the galvanometer needle , up to the point at which the magnet is lifted from the ground , after which no further motion of the needle is produced , unless the magnet is subjected to additional strain .
Thus , hanging a 4 lb. weight upon the uplifted magnet , produced deflections in the same direction as the pull on the armature , and on removal of the weight produced reverse deflections .
Trying the same set of experiments with a very small electromagnet , so that we might proceed to absolute rupture of the closed magnetic circuit without danger to the galvanometer , we found that the addition of successive weights to the magnet while hanging suspended by its armature , produced successive deflections of the galvanometer , the needle coming to rest at zero after each addition , as in the case of the large magnet .
When the maximum weight which the magnet was capable of sustaining was reached , and a real movement of the armature commenced , the induced current in the helix of the electro-magnet was very greatly increased by the addition of even the smallest weight .
From these experiments it may be inferred that in like manner as the passage of an electric current round a bar of iron produces elongation of the bar , so the elongation of the bar produces in its 1880 .
] On Magnetic Circuits in Electric turn an electric current in the helix , which tends to strengthen the magnetization ; and also that a magnet is absolutely stronger under tension than when at rest .
On the other hand , pressure on the armature , either continuous or sudden and momentary ( a blow for example ) , causes an electric current in the helices in the opposite direction to original magnetization , or in other words , against magnetization ; tending thereby to weaken the power of the magnet .
The 58 lb. magnet in closed circuit was hung by its armature , and on afterwards connecting its helices with the galvanometer no current could be detected , but on lowering it until it rested with its whole weight on the ground a current in the direction of demagnetization was'produced , giving a deflection of 15 ' .
In the same way a current in the direction of magnetization was obtained , giving a deflection of 15 ' , by the application of sufficient strain to lift the magnet off the ground , and this result was invariable .
The degree of swing , however , depended upon the rapidity with which the magnet was either raised or lowered .
It may be remarked that whereas any very slight application of force by pulling on the armature was sufficient to cause a current in the helices giving a deflection of 5 ' to 10 ' of the galvanometer needle , a great amount of pressure is necessary to produce a similar deflection .
A slight pull with the finger and thumb in the one case was equal to the pressure of a hundredweight in the other .
By the momentary removal of the armature , the closed magnetic circuit is broken , and though by its immediate restoration a new closed circuit is formed , nevertheless the tension on the molecules of iron by the magnetic stress is very greatly reduced .
Under these conditions a very slight pressure upon the armature produces a great swing of the needle , whilst a pull produces scarcely any effect at all until actual movement of the armature takes place .
If the pressure on the armature is great and continuous , a point is soon reached at which a slight pressure is no longer effective .
The effects produced are somewhat different if pressure is applied unequally .
For instance :\#151 ; A weight of 7 lbs. placed on the armature over the north pole of the 581b .
magnet caused a current in the helices giving a deflection of 20 ' at the galvanometer .
The same weight on the south pole gave the same deflection in the opposite direction , Pressure with the hand produced -like swings of the needy proportionate to the force used , and the amount of swing can be easily controlled , and the needle brought to rest by judicious pressure on either pole of the magnet .
If a lateral pressure be applied to one side of the armature between the poles , and the needle swings say 5 ' : on removal of the pressure , a current is produced in the opposite direction , and the reverse swing 290 Lord Elphinstone and C. W. Vincent .
[ Mar. 1\gt ; in place of being 5 ' will be 8 ' , and so on in proportion to the amount \lt ; j force made use of .
None of the above-mentioned effects could be shown with the sma a magnets under pressure : and it was not found possible to produce recognisable current without actual movement of the armatures .
Under certain circumstances the attractive force of electro-magnet in closed magnetic circuit is found to increase with lapse of time .
Eo ' : example : A small ( J-shaped electro-magnet with limbs 6 inched long , having a qoreof f-inch iron , and helices consisting of four layer-of No. 16 covered copper wire , when excited by four Bunsen cells supported as an armature a similar ( J-shaped iron bar , but without ; helix upon it , this latter remained firmly attached after the voltaic current had ceased , but the hanging on to it of an additional weigh !
of 3 lb. 6 oz. instantly wrenched it away from the electro-magnet and broke the closed magnetic circuit .
The magnet was then re-excited , the armature being fixed to the electro-magnet by being held in contact with the poles whilst an electric current , of a few seconds ' duration , passed through the circulating wire .
In place of immediately attempting to add any additional weight , the two iron ( J 's were left hanging face to face , in the form of the link of a chain , for twenty-four hours , at the end of which time the weight of 3 lbs. 6 oz. was hung on and sustained .
Forty-eight hours later , an additional weight of 3 lbs. 10 oz. was carefully added , making in all 7 lbs. sustained .
Twelve hours afterwards 1 lb. more was added , bringing up the entire weight to 8 lbs. beyond that of the armature ; this was suffered to remain for five days , when the system was taken to pieces .
On a subsequent occasion the same magnet sustained an entire weight of 10 lbs. beyond that of the ( J -shaped armature , the weight sustained being reached by beginning with an amount well within the sustaining power of the electro-magnet wire in closed circuit , and increasing it by small additions made with intervening intervals of time varying from twelve hours to several days .
Another and smaller [ J magnet was likewise experimented on ; this weighed with its coils 3 lbs. 6 oz. Its armature was a strip of soft iron completely covering the poles , and having a hook in the centre , to which weights could be easily attached .
This electro-magnet was excited by the passage , for a few seconds , of the current from two one-pint bichromate cells .
On breaking battery contact , the armature failed to sustain 4 lbs. The electric current was again sent round the electro-magnet , and the armature was pressed against the poles , being carefully adjusted so as to cover them completely , and at the same time to place the hook precisely in the centre , so that the pull should be fair and equal when a weight was hung upon it .
By this careful manipulation , on breaking con- ' 1880 .
] On Magnetic Circuits in Electric Machines .
291 , aCfc with the bichromate cells , the closed magnetic circuit was found Capable of sustaining the 4 lb. weight .
By successive additions of 2 oz. weights , made at intervals of a few minutes , the weight hanging to the armature was raised to 5 lbs. , after which the attempted addition of 2 oz. caused the disruption of the system .
The experiment was repeated under similar conditions , but with slightly extended intervals of time between the additions of the 2 oz. weights .
The magnet in closed circuit was made to hold 4 lbs. , 41 lbs. , 41 lbs. , 4 lbs. 14 oz. , 5 lbs. 2 oz. , the time taken in all , for the successive additions , being ten minutes .
The system was then left for twelve hours , when by additions of 4 oz. at intervals of a few minutes the weight sustained was increased to 6 lbs. 4 oz. Eleven hours later , this was further increased to 7 lbs. 6 oz. , and two hours afterwards to 8 lbs. 2 oz. A still smaller electro-magnet , weighing with its coils 5 oz. , and having an armature consisting of a very thin slip of soft iron , when excited by one of the bichromate cells , could not be made when in closed circuit to sustain 1^ lbs. at the moment of breaking the voltaic circuit .
It , however , sustained 1 lb. with ease .
The latter weight was therefore suspended , and the cell wires removed after the closed magnetic circuit was completed .
By successive additions of 2 oz. weights at short intervals of time ( five minutes to ten minutes each ) , this small magnet could be made to sustain 2 lbs. 2 oz. , but the addition of 1 oz. beyond this weight at once separated the armature and magnet .
It was thought that a longer interval of time should , as in the former instances , enable the magnet to sustain a still greater weight .
It was therefore brought into closed circuit , as before , and made to sustain 2 lbs. 2 oz. in the manner just related , and was thus left for twelve hours .
Successive additions of 2 oz. were then made to the hanging weight until it reached 2 lbs. 14 oz. Twenty-four hours afterwards , 4 oz. more were added , bringing the entire weight suspended to 50 oz. This small , soft iron magnet which , at the instant the voltaic current was withdrawn , was totally unable to sustain five times its own weight , was thus , by gradual growth of its magnetic force , enabled to hold ten times its own weight .
In the course of these experiments it was remarked that the longer the period the soft iron remained in closed magnetic circuit the more magnetically ductile did its molecules appear to become .
An electromagnet , which had been for a few days in closed circuit , could after rupture of the circuit be made to sustain weights in a fresh closed circuit at much shorter intervals of time than if it was magnetized , after being for some time with its poles uncovered .
The direction of the battery current with reference to the residual magnetism of the electro-magnets appeared to be of no moment .
A magnet which had On Magnetic Circuits Electric Machines .
[ Mar. 18 , been left for some time with its poles uncovered had less residual magnetism after a momentary current had passed through its helices than another magnet which had been in active closed circuit , even if the battery current had , in the latter case , to overcome a considerable amount of residual magnetism .
We found , moreover , that soft iron magnets retain their residual magnetism longer , and are capable of acquiring increased magnetization much more rapidly after having been bearing weights ( thereby-keeping the iron in a state of strain ) , than if they have been left in their normal condition and without bearing any weight at all .
The conditions under which the closed magnetic circuit retains its force are not yet clearly established .
With the 581b .
magnet a succession of gentle taps struck vertically !
with a wooden mallet upon the centre of the armature , while resting on the magnet in closed circuit , in a very few moments completely dis- !
sipated the magnetic force so far as the sustaining power of the magnet was concerned .
Removal of any portion of the weight suspended to the armature of a magnet hung up in closed circuit likewise tends to dissipate the force of the circuit .
For example :\#151 ; Half an hour after the removal of a weight of 10 lbs. , which had been suspended to the armature of a JJ magnet for twenty-one days , the armature fell off on receiving a slight touch .
In another experiment , a JJ magnet , which was capable of sustaining 7lbs .
, and which had actually been suspending 4 lbs. , was left for two months with the armature on only , the weight having been removed ; at the end of that time a very slight shake was sufficient to cause the armature to fall off .
Many other examples might be quoted to show that release from strain diminishes the magnetic force of the circuit .
In these experiments , in which the closed magnetic circuits had given way , the soft iron had been in a state of strain from which it had been released by the removal of the suspended weights .
But when no weights were hung upon the armature , and the iron had never been in a state of magnetic tension , the closed magnetic circuit , so far from diminishing , increased in force .
The 581b .
magnet was excited with a voltaic current so feeble , that although the magnet could be lifted by the armature in closed circuit , yet great care was necessary that the lift should be exactly vertical ; and very little force was required to slide the armature off the poles .
After the lapse of a month the armature was so firmly held that the utmost exertion of manual force could not stir it by a sliding movement , and the whole magnet could be raised from the ground even if tilted as much as 15 from the perpendicular .
The magnetism of the closed circuit of the 58 lb. magnet disappears after repeated up ar.d down movements of either one or both of its i 880 .
] Influence of Electric Light upon Vegetation .
lelices , provided the ends of the helix wires are connected together .ither singly in two separate circuits , or together in one continuous ircuit .
Every up or down movement of either of the helices produces urrents in the wires either for or against magnetization , which \#166 ; urrents apparently so disturb the molecules of the iron that the ixity of their original magnetic direction is lost .
In like manner as the movements of the armature , or the increased jr diminished tension of the iron , produce currents of electricity in the helix wires surrounding the magnets : so the movements of the helices produce currents of electricity which may either magnetize or demagnetize the iron .
With the 58 lb. magnet in closed circuit , the two ends of one of the helices being connected to the galvanometer , and the two ends of the other helix being connected with each other , the latter helix is moved towards the armature , a current is produced in the galvanometer helix which shows a fall of magnetization .
On moving the same helix away from the armature , a current is produced in the direction of magnetization .
In another experiment 30 yards of No. 16 covered copper wire , with its ends connected together , and so coiled that it could be moved freely from pole to pole over the armature , was placed on one limb of the 58 lb. magnet and the closed circuit established .
Both helices were then brought into continuous circuit through the galvanometer .
On movement of the coil of wire from south limb to the north limb of the magnet , a current was produced showing an increase of magnetization .
On moving the coil in the opposite direction , over the north limb pole , and on to the south one , the current is reversed , and is in a direction which would cause demagnetization .
It appears , therefore , that any interference with the lines of force about a magnetic circuit , means an interference with the magnetic circuit itself , and points to the possibility of building up magnetic force of magnets by the mere movement of wires in these lines of force , though the coils moved need not of necessity be connected with the helices surrounding the magnets .
VII .
" Some further Observations on the Influence of Electric Light upon Vegetation .
" By C. William Siemens , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received March 18 , 1880 .
When upon the 4th of March , I presented to the Royal Society a paper on the above-named subject , I was able to show by the result of experiment the effect of radiation from the electric arc in promoting the formation of chlorophyll within the leaf-cell of plants , and in favouring vigorous and continuous growth .
I ventured to express an opinion that the ripening of fruit would von xxx .

