90 Rev. S. J. Perry on a Simultaneous Disturbance [ May 18 , " Note on a Simultaneous Disturbance of the Barometer and of the Magnetic Needle .
" By the Rev. S. J. Perry , F.R.S. Received April 27 , 1876 .
As any question of the connexion between the different phenomena of nature may be of interest , I will venture to call attention to an observation made , in February last , in China , which tends to establish a fresh link between terrestrial magnetism and meteorology .
From the curves that accompany this note ( p. 91 ) , it would seem that the same cause may be capable of producing a simultaneous perturbation of the barometer and of the suspended magnets .
At the newly established observatory of Zi-Ka-Wei , near Shanghai , no very considerable disturbances of the magnetic elements have been observed in 1874 and 1875 ; but on February 20,1876 , the director , the Rev. M. Dechevrens , S.J. , had the good fortune to notice the first irregularities of any great extent that had ever been observed in China ; and these movements were found afterwards to be almost identical in all their inflexions with those traced by the mercury in the barometric curve .
The first observations on the morning of the 20th showed an increase of westerly declination and of dip , with a diminution of the horizontal component of the intensity , the observed value of H.F. being the least ever recorded at this station .
From 10h 32m a.m. Mr. Dechevrens was able to give his whole attention to the declination-magnet , which was then moving westward with a rising barometer .
The barometer attained a maximum about 10h 48m a.m. , followed by two westerly maxima of declination at 11 a.m. and 11.40 .
From 10h 48m until shortly after 4 p.m. the barometer fell rapidly , the magnet in the mean time moving almost constantly in an easterly direction , attaining its least declination of 1 ' 55'*07 W , at 4P 24m p.m. The amplitude of the declination disturbance was 10'*33 , a large amount if we consider that the mean diurnal range scarcely exceeds 3'"5 in the winter months .
On the previous evening the passing clouds appeared to be lit up on their borders , possibly by an aurora .
A N.E. wind blew very constantly throughout the day , and the rain fell from 3 P.M. until the following morning .
The dotted line represents the range of the declination-magnet on February 21 .
S. J. Perry .
Stonyhurst Observatory , April 26 , 1876 .
Comparison of movements of the Declination-magnet and of the Barometer , February 20 , 1876 , at Zi-Ka-Wei , near Shanghai .
The dotted line represents the normal variation of the magnet as observed the next day , February 21 .
1876 .
] of the Barometer and of the Mi

