On the Preparation of Large Quantities of Tellurium .
161 by such a change in the potential of the support was much too small to be detected .
The experiments with this apparatus were carried out at Peebles .
The mean rate- of leak when the apparatus was in an ordinary room amounted to 6*6 divisions of the micrometer scale per hour .
An experiment made in the Caledonian Railway tunnel near Peebles ( at night after the traffic had ceased ) gave a leakage of 7 0 divisions per hour , the fall of potential amounting to 14 scale divisions in the two hours for which the experiment lasted .
The difference is well within the range of experimental errors .
There is thus no evidence of any falling off of the rate of production of ions in the vessel , although there were many feet of solid rock overhead .
It is unlikely , therefore , that the ionisation is due to radiation which has traversed our atmosphere ; it seems to be , as Geitel concludes , a property of the air itself .
The experiments described in this paper were carried out with ordinary atmospheric air , which had in most cases been filtered through a tightly fitting plug of wool .
The air was not dried , and no experiments have yet been made to determine whether the ionisation depends on the amount of moisture in the air .
It can hardly be doubted that the very few nuclei which can always be detected in moist air by the expansion method , provided the expansion be great enough to catch ions , are themselves ions merely made visible by the expansion , not , as some former experiments seemed to suggest , produced by it .
The negative results then obtained , in attempts to remove the nuclei by a strong electric field , may perhaps be explained if we consider that all ions set free in the interval during which the supersaturation exceeds the value necessary to make water condense upon them , are necessarily caught , so that complete absence of drops is not to be expected even with the strongest fields .
The principal results arrived at in this investigation are ( 1 ) that ions are continually being produced in atmospheric air ( as is proved also by Geitel 's experiments ) , and ( 2 ) that the number of each kind ( positively and negatively charged ) produced per second in each cubic centimetre amounts to about twenty .
" On Preparation of Large Quantities of Tellurium .
" By Edward Matthey , A.R.S.M. Communicated by Sir George Stokes , Bart. , h.R.S. Received February 19 , \#151 ; Read March 14 , 1901 .
For several years I have worked upon bismuth ores of varying richness for the extraction of the bismuth they contain , and I have 162 On the Preparation of Large Quantities of Tellurium .
already communicated the results to the Royal Society.* Many , if not most of these ores , contained traces of tellurium .
Tellurium has a marked tendency to associate itself with bismuth , as silver may be said to do with lead , or phosphorus with iron , and accordingly the crude bismuth extracted from these ores invariably contained small quantities of tellurium , which was reduced together with the bismuth , and was found to exist in it in a greater proportion than in the ores .
The presence of even minute traces of tellurium in bismuth being sufficient to render this metal unsaleable , it is necessary to remove every portion of the tellurium whilst refining the crude bismuth .
The alkalies containing the tellurium resulting from the refining of the crude bismuth were thrown aside , and were left for future investigation .
I have now been able to treat these alkaline residues , and have extracted from them a substantial amount of metallic tellurium , weighing 26 kilos .
This amount of tellurium was produced from 321 tons of mineral containing an average amount of 22*50 per cent , of bismuth .
The amount of metallic tellurium obtained corresponds to an average of 0*007 per cent , of the original mineral .
The 26 kilos , of metallic tellurium was obtained by soaking the telluride alkalies , resulting from refining the telluric bismuth , in hot water\#151 ; acidifying these solutions with hydrochloric acid , and precipitating the tellurium with sodium sulphite .
A crude mixture of bismuth and tellurium was thus obtained , the tellurium forming about 47*5 per cent , of the crude metal .
This was dissolved in nitric acid , and again treated in the same way , and yielded the amount of tellurium represented by the 26 kilos .
This shows on analysis :\#151 ; Tellurium ... ... ... ... ... 97*00 Bismuth ... ... ... ... ... . .
2*15 Copper ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*65 Iron ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0*10 Loss ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0*10 100*00 The appearance of the metal when broken shows a crystalline fracture , of needle-like structure , and of bright metallic lustre .
It does not readily tarnish in the air at the ordinary temperature .
If slowly cooled , a crystalline form very much resembling that of bismuth is obtained .
, . .
Its specific gravity is 6*27 , as against 6*23 the density of uncompressed tellurium found by Spring .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' to !
42 , 1887 , P- 89 ; vol. 49 , 1890 , p. 78 ; and yoI .
52 , 1893 , p. 467 .
Transmission of the Trypanosoma Evansi by Horse Flies .
163 The temperature of solidification was determined by means of the Le Chatelier pyrometer , and proved to be 450 ' C. , or 5 ' lower than that given by Carnelly and Williams.* Some tellurium prepared from this 26 kilos , to chemical purity also gave 450 ' C. as the solidifying point .
Commercial tellurium obtained from Germany proved to have the same melting point and specific gravity as my own tellurium .
I found the electrical resistance to be about 800 times that of copper .
The resistance , however , appears to be very greatly dependent on the crystalline conditions .
A rod cast and cooled quickly has a lower resistance than one that has been cooled slowly .
A current of a few amperes will quickly raise the temperature of a rod 0-2 inch in diameter .
In casting small rods of tellurium , of say ^ inch diameter , there is much contraction , and partial separation takes place even after some hours .
The thermo-electric power of tellurium appears to be great .
It has been a source of great satisfaction to me , as a metallurgist , to produce so large an amount of tellurium from a mineral in which it existed only in minute traces .
The amount of 57|- lb. ( 26 kilos .
) of tellurium was derived from 187,019 lbs. of crude bismuth , which resulted from the treatment of 831,168 lbs. of mineral .
The Transmission of the Trypanosoma by Horse Elies , and other Experiments pointing to the Probable Identity of Surra of India and Xagana or Tsetse-fly Disease of Africa .
" By Leonard Rogers , M.D. , M.E.C.P. , Indian Medical Service .
Communicated by Major I ) .
Bruce , E.A.M.C. , F.E.S. Received January 28 , \#151 ; Read February 14 , 190.1 .
( Communicated to the Tsetse-fly Committee of the Royal Society .
) The close resemblance between surra of India and tsetse-fly disease of Africa has long been known , while Koch , after having seen the living Trypanosoma Evansi at Muktesar in India , and soon after studied the parallel disease in German East Africa , pronounces them to be the same , and in his 1 Reiseberichte ' calls the disease seen in the latter place " Surrakrankheit .
" The appearance of the report made to the Tsetse-fly Committee of the Royal Society by Ivanthack , Durham , and Blandford on their experimental investigation of the latter disease , suggested to me to repeat some of their experiments in the case of * ' Cliem .
Soc. Jo urn .
, ' vol. 37 , p. 123 .

