} ) .
] On the Action of the Crotalus-poison .
261 Table III .
, from 20,000 to 30,000 , the following corrigenda are fired:\#151 ; Opposite 20071 " 20143 \gt ; \#187 ; *'353 \#187 ; *0359 \#187 ; 40939 " 21277 " 21821 \#187 ; \#187 ; *3599 " 25667 \#187 ; *5759 \#187 ; 27427 \#187 ; *7739 " 28663 " 28687 \#187 ; *8751 \#187 ; **843 \#187 ; *9443 " 29527 Pro leg 6690 10071 20352 20358 20938 1x81 10910 ... ... . .
874 437 25666 *5758 27426 13869 *7738 4777 *4343 1150 575 1442i 759 29442 .
777 Between 22003 and 22027 insert 22013 , and opposite to it 5503 .
" 22961 " 22973 " 22963 , " " 11481 .
\#187 ; *8933 \#187 ; 28961 " 28949 , " " 28948 .
\#187 ; \#187 ; *9383 \gt ; \#187 ; 29389 \#187 ; *9387\gt ; i\gt ; \#187 ; \gt ; 2099 .
hte.\#151 ; I have been kindly and ably assisted by the Rev. Prof. Salmon , i.S. , in revising the Table from 20,000 to 30,000 , also in calculating ii revising the Table from 30,000 to 40,000.\#151 ; W. S. The Table from 30,000 to 40,000 is preserved for reference in the whives of the Society , by order of the Committee of Papers.\#151 ; M. S. ] u On the Nature and Physiological Action of the poison as compared with that of Naja and other Indian Venomous Snakes ; also Investigations into the Nature of the Influence of Naja- and Oofo/ ws-poison on Ciliary and Amoeboid Action and on Vallisneria , and on the Influence of Inspiration of pure Oxygen on Poisoned Animals .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , Sc. D. , M.R.C.P. , and J. Fairer , C.S.I. , M.D. , F.R.C.P. Lond. , F.R.S.E. , President of the Medical Board at the India Office .
Received January 7 , 1875 .
tn our former papers we described the general phenomena accompany the physiological action of cobra- and Da\amp ; oia-poisons on warm-boded animals , reptiles , Ashes , and invertebrata .
We propose in this 262 Drs. Brunton and Fairer on Physiological [ Feb. 1 ?
paper to compare with these the action of the CW\#171 ; Zws-virus in its generi effects on life , on the functions , organs , and tissues , and especially as affects the blood and vessels as regards a marked influence in causin haemorrhages and extravasations of blood generally and locally ; am further , to examine the action of snake-poison generally on ciliary an amoeboid movements\#151 ; or that which represents its action on contract lity , apart from that which is caused through the medium of the tferv centres and nerve-distribution .
It appears that there is little difference between the physiologic effects of the crotaline or viperine and the colubrine virus .
The mot in which death is brought about is essentially the same in all ; thou\#163 ; there are evidences , even when allowing for individual peculiarities , ths the action is marked by some points of difference sufficiently characterist to require notice in detail ; We have already expressed our belief that death is caused by tl cobra- , Daboia- , and Hydrophis-poison , 1st , through its action on tl cerebro-spinal nerve-centres , especially on the medulla , inducing paralys of respiration ; or 2nd , in some cases ( where the poison has entered tl circulation in large quantities and has been conveyed more directly to tl heart ) by arrest , tetanically in systole , of cardiac action , probably owir to some action on the cardiac ganglia ; 3rd , by a combination of the tv previous causes ; 4th , by a septic condition of a secondary nature , aa which , being more essentially pathological in its bearings , the details we : not considered suitable for discussion here .
There is reason to believe that death is caused in the same way by tl Crotcilus-poison also ; and it appears , from the experiments recently pe formed in Calcutta , by Dr. Ewart and the members of the Commits appointed by Government , upon P or the bla\lt ; snake , and Hoplocephalus curtus , or the tiger-snake of Australia , th their virus causes death in the same manner .
These reptiles had bet sent from Melbourne to Calcutta for the purpose of investigation ai comparison .
( Vide Committee 's Report , p. 58 et seq. , Appendix .
) But though the actual cause of death is essentially the same , the ph\lt ; nomena which precede and accompany it differ in some degree accordii to the nature of the poison , the quantity and site of the inoculation and the individual peculiarities of the creature inoculated , as may 1 seen in the experiments herewith recorded .
The condition of an animal poisoned by the rattlesnake-venom , the essentially resembles that of one subjected to the influence of tl colubrine or viperine poison of Indian snakes :\#151 ; Depression , hurried respiration , exhaustion , lethargy , unconsciousnee nausea , retching , and vomiting ( vide experiment on cat , Exp. IX .
) .
' Muscular twitchings , ataxy , paralysis , and convulsions ( the latter pr bably chiefly , though not entirely , due to circulation of imperfectly ox ) genated blood , the result of impeded respiration ) , and , finally , death .
If 5 .
] Action of the Crotalus-poison , fyc .
263 laemorrhages or haemorrhagic extravasations and effusions , both local a l general , occur in all varieties of snake-poisoning .
But we observe ( and in this our observations are in accord with those o'Weir Mitchell ) that there is a greater tendency to both local and oieral haemorrhage and extravasation of blood and of the colouring-ntter of the blood , especially as observed in the peritoneum , intestines , ad mesentery , and also probably to a more direct action on the cord ( ie Experiments I. , III .
, V. , VI .
, VII .
, IX .
, XI .
, XIV .
, XV .
) , than in jisoning by either cobra or viper ( vid Experiments IV .
, VII .
, XIII .
, XL , XVII .
, XX .
) .
The viscera and other tissues , after death , are found congested and phymosed , and in some cases to a great extent , seeming to show that her a preternatural fluidity of blood or some important change in the Hsels , favouring its exudation , has occurred .
But with regard to the blood itself we have observed that it does form t'oagulum after death , generally , if not invariably ; as we have noted to i the case , though not to the same extent , in the blood of animals that he succumbed to the Daboia-Yirus* .
With reference to the coagulation or non-coagulation of the blood in nes of snake-poisoning , we observe that the following conclusions have len arrived at by Mr. Richards and the Calcutta Committee ( vide p. 45 \lt ; their Report ) .
" We now propose to deal with the physical changes produced by ; ake-poisoning on the blood .
Erom observations which have been made Mr. Richards and ourselves , we have arrived at the following con-tsions .
" The blood appears to remain fluid after death under the circumstances ted below ; \#151 ; " 1st .
When a large quantity of the cobra-poison has been directly in-jted into the circulation , as , for example , into an artery or a veinf .
" 2nd .
In cases where animals or men have been poisoned by the bite vipers , such as the Russell 's viper .
" 3rd .
In all cases of snake-bite , whether from the poisonous colubrine viperine genera , in the human subject \#163 ; .
" The blood undergoes either partial or complete coagulation under the Mowing conditions:\#151 ; " 1st .
When a small quantity only of the cobra-poison has been jected into a vein or an artery .
" 2nd .
In cases where the lower animals have been bitten by the .bra .
" Why the admixture of a large and quickly fatal injection of the )bra-virus into the circulation of animals should produce comparatively * la Dr. Fayrer 's Indian experiments the blood of animals dead from -Zteiowi-poison mrly always remained fluid after death .
t This is not always so.\#151 ; J. Fairer .
J Not always so.\#151 ; J. Fairer .
264 Drs. Brunton and Fairer on the Physiological [ Feb. 18 permanent fluidity of the blood or interfere with its ordinary coagulability soon after removal from the body or after death , and why the injection of a smaller and more slowly fatal quantity should interpose no obstacle to its speedy coagulation , are questions extremely difficult to account for or explain .
We can only state the fact that , in the one case , coagulation occurs speedily , and in the other this coagulation is retarded or altogether prevented by some cause at present unknown .
" The following experiments were made on the physiological action of the virus of the rattlesnake , with the view of comparison with that of the cobra and Ddboia .
We are indebted to Dr. Weir Mitchell , of Philadelphia , for a supply of the virus .
He was good enough to send about six grains of the dried poison of Crotalus\#151 ; the species not named , but it is believed to be of Crotalus durissus .
The dried poison supplied is said to be about 6| years old , and was dried in July or August at the natural temperature , and has since then been preserved in a phial .
It was tried by Dr. Mitchell and found active three years ago .
It has the appearance of fractured fragments of dried gum-arabic , of rather a darker yellow colour , but otherwise resembling the dried cobra-virus sent from Bengal .
Experiment I. June 9th , 1874.\#151 ; *015 gramme of the dried poison diluted with 1 cub. centim. of distilled water was hypodermically injected into the thigh of a full-grown guineapig at 11.30 a.m. Restlessness and muscular twitchings of the body generally soon commenced ; these passed away , but the animal became sluggish , in which condition it remained all night , and died at about 9 a.m. the next morning .
The injected limb became much swollen , infiltrated , and discoloured with sanguineo-serous effusion .
The intestines were not ecchymosed ; there was much sanguinolent fluid and also blood effused into the abdominal areolar tissue .
No convulsions were observed ; but as the animal was not seen during a short time previous to death , they cannot be said positively not to have occurred ; nor is it known if the heart ceased to beat at the moment when apparent death took place .
Experiment II .
A few drops of watery solution of poison , of same strength* were injected under the skin of a guineapig 's thigh at 12.16 , noon .
12.17 .
Marked twitchings of head and hind legs , very similar to those produced in some of the cases of cobra-poisoning .
12.18 .
Hind leg ( poisoned one ) weak .
1175 .
] Action of the Crotalus-poisony fyc .
265 12.20 .
Twitchings much increased , now mainly in head and neck , not .
s much in hind legs .
12.28 .
G-uineapig quiet , but with occasional twitchings ; sluggish and ( ?
inclined to move .
* 1.30 .
Sluggish in moving ; can still move about , though disinclined to , C ' so .
The punctured thigh is very blue .
The rest of the notes of this experiment were lost .
The animal died .
Experiment TIT .
June 10 th,1874.\#151 ; ] of a grain of Crotalus- and | of a grain of cobra-]ison were carefully weighed and diluted , each with ten drops of disced water .
Two full-grown guineapigs of equal weight were then } fleeted .
The solution of Crotalus-poison was injected into the peritoneal cavity n guineapig No. 1 at 1.52 p.m. 1.55 .
Muscular twitchings of head and neck . .
2 p.m. Startings and twitchings continue .
It gives faint squeaks occasionally , as though the sudden startings * aich occur at intervals of 5 or 6 seconds cause pain . .
2.5 .
Twitchings continue .
' 2.8 .
Very restless ; twitchings going on , but no paralysis yet .
2.17 .
The same .
2.25 .
Restless and weaker ; but still moves freely on being roused .
2.42 .
Sluggish ; drags the hind legs .
I 2.58 .
Weaker ; rolls partially over on one side , but can run when S 'used .
| 3.3 .
Lying on side , but can be roused ; is partially paralyzed in * nd legs .
Respiration abdominal and hurried . .
3.5 .
Nearly quite paralyzed ; is roused with difficulty .
3.7 .
Can still be roused .
Abdomen distended and painful ; cries out 1 hen it is touched , as though peritonitis were setting in .
3.12 .
Can be roused with difficulty ; respiration hurried ; convulsive ovements of fore legs and neck .
Can still stagger for a few paces ; but ?
ordination of muscular power much diminished. .
3.30 .
In violent convulsions . . ?
* 3.38 .
Convulsions continue .
v 3.45 .
Quiet .
Paralyzed ; but reflex action still continues . .
3.55 .
Dead in 2 hours and 3 minutes .
\#166 ; 3.56 .
Electrodes in cord cause twitching of muscles of the back , and ' ery slightly in those of the legs : the cord was evidently all but para-\gt ; rzed .
Muscular fibre contracts freely to direct stimulus of current .
The itestines were ecchymosed and congested .
There were effusions of red terum into the peritoneal cavity , and much ecchymosis of peritoneum ad subperitoneal and intra-muscular areolar tissue .
Peristaltic action * ontinued faintly .
266 Drs. Brunton and Fairer on Physiological [ Feb. 18 4 p.m. The heart has ceased to contract 4 minutes after apparent death it continued to contract , especially the auricles , for part ( not the whole of the time .
The blood removed from the heart-cavities and vena cava rapid !
formed a firm coagulum in a glass receiver .
The electrodes applied to the sciatic showed that the nerve-trunk , a well as the spinal cord , was paralyzed .
Experiment IV .
Guineapig No. 2 , an albino , had the |-grain cobra-virus solution injecte into its peritoneal cavity at 1.56 p.m. It immediately became much excited .
1.57 .
Is now quite tranquil .
2 .
Sluggish .
Does not twitch as guineapig No. 1 did .
2.4 .
Started and squeaked slightly , as though in pain , but no twitching 2.5 .
Slight twitching generally .
Paralysis and ataxy commencing drags its legs with difficulty .
2.9 .
Sharp twitehings of head and neck .
2.12 .
Subsided on to the belly ; head fallen over j crawls with diff culty ; is very feeble , almost paralyzed .
The albino eyes have a heav dull look ; lost their bright pink .
2.14 .
Convulsed .
2.15 .
Reflex action ceased .
Apparently dead , but heart can still b felt beating .
Occasional convulsive twitchings of lower lip .
2.16 .
Dead in 21 minutes. .
2.17 .
All movements have ceased .
Heart had ceased to contrac except slight flickering movements of auricles .
2.20 .
Electrodes in cord .
Spinal cord and nerves paralyzed ; musck contract freely to direct stimulus of current .
Heart distended wit blood .
Blood , when removed , formed rapidly.a firm coagulum .
Intes times , peritoneum , and subperitoneal areolar tissue congested and ecchj mosed .
Sanguinolent effusions into peritoneum , but not so well marke as in the CVofaZtts-poisoning .
Peristaltic action of bowels cease rapidly .
The results of these two experiments show , so far , that the action \lt ; the cobra-poison is more energetic than that of the rattlesnake .
W* were watery solutions of exactly the same quantity of the dried virus but it is to be borne in mind that that of the rattlesnake was 6| y\#174 ; K old , while that of the cobra was only one year old .
The guineapigs were both full-grown and of the same size ; yet on succumbed in 20 minutes to the cobra-poison , while the other surVw\#174 ; the inoculation of the rattlesnake-poison for 2 hours and 3 minutes .
; There were no very marked differences in the action of the poison 1 1 \#163 ; 5 .
] Action of the Crotalufyc .
267 t n8 two cases , except in the energy with which the cobra exceeded the CHal/ us .
Crotalus .
iStchings ; restless ; squeaks ; uggish ; ataxy j paralysis .
Lurried respiration .
Peritoni-s .
Convulsions .
Death in hours 3 minutes .
Coagulated ood .
Ecchymosis and extraction of serous effusion well tarked .
Cord paralyzed .
Muses retain irritability .
Experiment V. un 10th.\#151 ; A grain of CVotaZws-poison diluted with water was iiicted into the peritoneum of a full-grown guineapig at 2.40 P.M. r.tchings began almost immediately .
.3 .
Eestless ; startings ; staggers on hind legs .
.20 .
Yery weak , especially in hind quarters .
General paralysis \lt ; ing in .
Abdomen distended and very tender .
i.30 .
In convulsions .
Still feels when the abdomen is touched .
.37 .
Paralyzed ; but feels the touch .
Keflex well marked .
1.45 .
Apparently dead in 65 minutes .
1.48 .
Cavities opened .
Auricles flickering .
Blood from heart and vat vessels coagulated firmly .
Abdominal cavity and areolar tissue and " peritoneal tissue infiltrated with bloody serum .
Much ecchymosis of riitoneum and intestines , but not of lungs .
Cord and nerves paralyzed , mscles contract vigorously to induced current .
Action of Crotalus-y\gt ; owon on Babbit .
Experiment VI .
| of a grain ( *015 gramme ) of the same dissolved in iub .
centim. of water .
The jugular vein of a large white rabbit was exposed , and the above ' ution was injected into it at 1.50 p.m. At 1.51 violent convulsions , with opisthotonos .
At 1.53 apparently quite dead .
Artificial respiration commenced im-idiately .
Heart acting still , though feebly and with irregular flickering .ntractions .
Spinal cord exposed .
Electrodes applied ; no reaction .
2.12 .
Heart still contracting feebly .
_ 2.15 .
Paint contractions of heart still observable .
Ventricles puncture , !
d blood withdrawn .
Peristaltic action has ceased .
2.20 .
Feeble cardiac movements continue .
^ .
2.21 , Heart has now ceased .
Muscles react to direct current .
ea Cobra .
Twitchings ; excitement ; squeaks ; sluggish ; ataxy ; weakness ; paralysis .
Convulsions .
Death in 20 minutes .
Spinal cord and nerves paralyzed .
Muscles irritable .
Heart distended .
Blood congested .
Ecchymosis .
Congestion less than in Crotalus .
208 Drs. Brunton and Fairer on the Physiological [ Feb. 18 , caused by rapid paralysis of medulla and cord .
The blood taken from the heart and great vessels did not coagulate .
At 4 p.m. it was still fluid , though very florid in colour .
Examined under the microscope nearly 2 hours after apparent death , the white corpuscles appeared natural ; the red corpuscles not in rouleaux , and very much crenated , though a few retained their natural contour .
The blood was natural to test-paper .
Experiment VII .
June Ylth.\#151 ; | of a grain ( *015 gramme ) of dried cobra-poison , dissolved in 1 cub. centim. of water , was injected into the jugular vein of a large white rabbit , of the same size as in the previous experiment , at 2.55 p.m. The rabbit passed at once into violent convulsions , and was apparently dead before it could be removed from the board , within one minute .
The cord was immediately exposed , artificial respiration having also been begun .
Electrodes applied , with strong current ; no reaction ; the cord was perfectly paralyzed .
Thorax examined at 2.59 .
Heart had ceased to contract .
Ventricles moderately contracted .
Auricles distended with blood .
Phrenic irritated , quite paralyzed .
Diaphragm , when directly irritated by current , contracts very faintly , whilst the neighbouring muscles contract vigorously .
Peristaltic action goes on .
Electrodes applied to vagus appear to accelerate peristaltic action ; applied to splanchnic , they diminish it .
3.7 .
Ventricles of heart have now contracted firmly .
3.15 .
Blood taken from heart and great vessels has coagulated , but not firmly .
The clot is small , and the serum very red .
3.15 .
Electrodes to sciatic ; no reaction .
Blood examined under microscope ; no aggregation in rouleaux , no crenation of corpuscles .
Blood neutral to test-paper .
We have in former papers remarked that when the cobra-poison was injected into the jugular vein directly and caused almost immediate death , that the fatal result was due to cessation of the heart 's action by arrest in systole , and such was partially the case in the last experiment ( VII .
) , made for the purpose of comparison with but in experiment VI .
death was not so caused , for the heart continued to contract for about 28 minutes after apparent death , which was probably due to the sudden and total annihilation of the functions of the medulla and cord , no reaction to a strong current occurring when the electrodes were applied immediately after apparent death .
In this instance of CVotaZns-poisoning it is also to be remarked that the coagulability of the blood was destroyed , whilst in that by cobra-virus it was only partially so .
It appears from the results of this experiment that the direct inoculation of large doses of the virus , whether viperine or colubrine , into the 375 .
] Action of the Crotalfyc .
269 reulation have the power in some cases of annihilating almost instanta-eously the irritability of the cord and medulla , as in others they have of .'resting the heart 's action .
Experiment VIII .
June 17th.\#151 ; Ten drops of the blood of the rabbit described in the last xperiment , poisoned by Croton-virus , were injected into a guineapig 's ligh at 3.40 p.m. The guineapig was not apparently affected constitutionally by the oisoned blood .
It was alive the next morning ; but the leg was swollen ud discoloured .
It ultimately recovered .
Experiment IX .
June 2,4th , 1874.\#151 ; A full-grown cat was chloralized at 1.20 p.m. | of grain of Croton-poison , diluted with 1 cub. centim. of water , was in-deted into the jugular vein .
The respirations were immediately quickened .
1.21 .
Twitching of muscles generally .
1.22 .
Efforts to vomit .
Eorcible extension of limbs .
1.24 .
Hurried respiration and retching .
Keflex action perfect .
1.30 .
Muscular twitching and tetanic stretching of limbs .
Efforts to omit continue .
Micturition .
Kolls over on the ground .
1.34 .
Ataxy .
Staggers when walking , which it can only do for a few \gt ; aces .
Peculiar twitching of diaphragm ; not synchronous with respira-ory movements .
Soils over on its side .
2 p.m. In the same state .
2.8 .
Injected ^ of a grain more of the poison into the same jugular 'em .
The animal immediately got up and walked , comparatively steadily , 'or several paces , as though it had been stimulated , and then rolled over .
2.16 .
Twitching of diaphragm continues at the rate of 150 per minute .
2.18 .
Again got up and walked for a few paces ; but it is gradually becoming more paralyzed .
2.44 .
Violent tetanic spasms of limbs .
Keflex action diminished .
2.46 .
Keflex action gone from eyes .
Deep sighing respiration .
2.47 .
Convulsions .
Death .
Body opened immediately .
Lungs deeply congested and much ecchymosed .
Deep red 'gelatinous effusion all about the roots of the lungs .
Heart contracting .
Electrodes applied to phrenic caused vigorous contraction of diaphragm .
2.50 .
Heart ceased to contract 3 minutes after respiration had ceased .
2.52 .
Electrodes in cord ; do not cause contraction of limbs .
2.54 .
The sciatic nerve , when irritated , conveys impressions ; muscles of tags contract .
Blood from the heart and great vessels did not form a coagulum , and remained permanently fluid .
Ked corpuscles of blood were much crenated .
Death in this case appeared to be caused through the medulla .
270 Drs. Brunton and Fairer on the Physiological [ Feb. 18 Experiment X. June 15th , 1874.\#151 ; Action of CVotaZws-poison on the frog .
A frog 's hind leg was ligatured excluding the sciatic nerve .
A solution of OotaZws-poison was injected into the lymph-sac at 12.3$ P.M. 2.30 .
Sluggish , but not otherwise affected .
3.15 .
In the same condition .
June 1 6th.\#151 ; 12.3 , noon .
Sluggish , but can still move .
June 17 th.\#151 ; Found dead this morning early ; pupils contracted .
Electrodes applied ; no reaction in either cord or nerves on either sidt to the strongest current .
The frog may have been dead some hours .
Experiment XI .
June 15th.\#151 ; rAt 3 p.m. same day a solution of nom wai injected into the dorsal lymph-sac of a frog , the aorta having been pre viously ligatured , so as to prevent the poison from affecting the trunk or peripheral extremities of the sciatic nerves .
3.40 .
The frog seems quite unaffected .
June 16th.\#151 ; 12.30 , noon .
Frog dead ; not rigid ; mouth open .
Irritation of cord with strongest current does not cause contraction o legs .
Irritation of sciatic with coil at 24 causes twitchings of gastro cnemius .
Neither of these two experiments give any definite results , as th* period intervening between death and examination of the condition of th\lt ; nerve-centres was not determined exactly .
The results of the following experiments show that the local as well a the general effect of the cobra- and CVotaZws-poisons , i. e. colubrine an\lt ; viperine , is to cause haemorrhage , ecchymosis , and sanguinolent effusion .
' into the areolar tissue , not only at the seat of inoculation and its neigh bourhood , but also in the mucous membranes and other vascular parts It is obvious also that the CVotaZws-poison acts more energetically u this respect than the cobra-poison , and that this is perhaps one of th\lt ; most marked distinctions between them .
Experiment XII .
August 6th , 1874.\#151 ; A cat was chloralized , and part of the mesenter placed under the microscope on the warm stage .
Crotalus-'poison , dilu ted with water , was then applied to the mesentery , and its effects watched The white corpuscles were observed to cling in quantities to the walls o the vessels , and as the current of blood hurried through them , some masse of pale matter , like aggregation of white corpuscles , were observed to pas with the Btream ; very soon , marked extravasation of red corpuscles tool { 75 .
] Action of the Crotalufyc , 271 ice , and to the naked eye the mesentery became discoloured by patches i ecchymosis in the course of the small blood-vessels , like the foliage on ie branches of a tree .
There could be no doubt that the local action of the poison had a marked , :ect in producing extravasation of blood .
Experiment XIII .
A similar experiment was repeated on another part of the mesentery i the same cat with cobra-poison , exactly as the C'rofaZtts-poison had en applied in the previous experiment .
This was carefully watched , it no extravasation took place ; there was a marked difference in the suit of the application of the two poisons , at all events as far as these ro experiments were concerned .
Experiment XIV .
August 12 th,1874.\#151 ; A cat was chloralized at 2.30 pIm .
Mesentery posed and placed under microscope on warm stage .
OotaZus-poison applied to mesentery ; circulation soon diminished in one vessels but continued vigorously in others .
Isolated extravasated itches soon made their appearance of a triangular form , others followed id coalesced with these until a network was formed in the course of the ; ssels all over the field .
The extravasation soon became general , the cir-ilation still continuing slowly .
Experiment XV .
A fresh portion of mesentery of same cat exposed .
Intestines be-tming cold and circulation now very languid .
Cobra-poison applied .
No apparent effect produced ; but the circulation is very languid , ideed has almost ceased , so that the results of this experiment are not inclusive .
Experiment XIV .
August 14 th,1874.\#151 ; A cat was chloralized , part of mesentery with-rawn , and placed under microscope on warm stage .
Dried cobra-poison dissolved in a salt solution , *75 per cent. , applied to he#mesentery at 4.10 p.m. 4.14 .
Circulation is languid , almost ceased in some vessels .
4.18 .
Slight extravasation taking place where the poison has been in ontact .
4.20 .
Extravasation rather more obvious .
4.35 .
Exposed another part of the mesentery ; examined the state of he circulation before applying the poison .
Blood flowing languidly .
Poison applied at 4.37 ; at first it seemed rather to accelerate the movement of the blood .
272 Drs. Brunton and Fairer on the Physiological [ Feb. 18 4.38 .
Circulation continues at same rate .
4.42 .
Same rate .
, 4.45 .
It becomes more languid .
4.48 .
Circulation has ceased , but yet there is no marked extravasation .
Experiment XVII .
Another portion of the same mesentery had cobra-poison applied , but after half an hour there was no sign of extravasation .
Experiment XVIII .
A fresh piece of mesentery exposed of same cat , and diluted poison applied at 4.52 p.m. The circulation was rather languid at the time , and apparently became more languid .
At 4.58 no extravasation had taken place , the blood flowing very languidly .
5.15 .
Circulation still going on , but very slowly ; no extravasation ; ii soon after ceased .
Experiment XIX .
At 5.20 p.m. a fresh portion of the mesentery was exposed , * to one part cobra- and to the other Crotalus-poison was applied , and the effect was watched with the naked eye .
5.45 .
No extravasation visible .
At 6.15 p.m. slight extravasation equally visible on both .
Experiment XX .
August 25th , 1874.\#151 ; At 2 p.m. a young cat was chloralized .
The mesentery was drawn out and a part treated with cobra-poison , another pari with Crotalus-poison .
At 5 p.m. On examination , that under the influence of the poison was found deeply congested and reddened with blood , extravasatec in the course of the small vessels , forming a well-marked redness to th\lt ; naked eye .
Under the microscope the red corpuscles were seen in number outside the vessels .
Circulation still going on vigorously .
That par treated with cobra-poison was barely altered , but , on close examination slight patches of extravasation were seen in the course of the vessels .
The difference was well marked between the two\#151 ; the extravasation produced by Crotalus-\\amp ; non\ being well marked , that by cobra-venon scarcely perceptible .
In both cases the microscope showed red corpusdef outside the vessels .
These experiments show that Crotalpoison causes haemorrhage anc haemorrhagic effusions more than the cobra-poison does .
The following experiments were made , at the suggestion of Mr. Darwin 175 .
] Action of the Crortalfyc .
273 v ; h the object of testing the influence of snake-poison on ciliary action , piecially in reference to its comparative action on vegetable protoplasm , a will be seen by his remarks .
4 Experiment XXI .
Influence of Cobra-poison on Ciliary Action .
Tune 29 th,1874.\#151 ; Ciliated epithelium from the frog 's mouth was treated ith a solution of cobra-poison and examined under the microscope .
At 1.35 p.m. , when examined , the action of the cilia was vigorous .
At 1.45 it was much diminished .
At 1.55'it had entirely ceased .
Experiment XXII .
Ciliated epithelium placed under microscope ; one part was treated with iter , the other with the poisoned solution .
At 2.10 p.m. ciliary motion vigorous in both , perhaps more so in that bjected to the poisoned solution .
2.18 .
Non-poisoned cilia active .
Poisoned cilia very feeble .
2.20 .
Non-poisoned cilia still active .
Poisoned cilia very feeble .
2.24 .
Non-poisoned cilia active .
Poisoned cilia very languid .
2.30 .
Non-poisoned cilia still active .
Poisoned cilia have entirely ased to act .
It is evident from this that the poison first stimulates and then destroys e activity of the ciliary action .
Experiment XXIII .
August 14 th.\#151 ; Prog 's blood placed in salt solution , *75 per cent. , at 1.25 m. on warm stage , and then subjected to the action of cobra-poison .
At first the amoeboid movements of white corpuscles went on vigo-\gt ; usly .
At 2 p.m. they had ceased , or very nearly so , in all that appeared i the field , 2.30 .
All movement had entirely ceased .
The red corpuscles seemed lore flattened , the nucleus more visible , and the edges better defined , ssuming a pointed and more oval form than usilal .
Experiment XXIV .
August 25th , 1874.\#151 ; Newts ' blood examined under ^ object-glass on ot stage , white corpuscles moving slowly .
Cobra-poison applied , but no \gt ; erceptible change observed .
The following communications were received from Mr. C. Darwin on he action of some of the same cobra-poison on vegetable protoplasm : " You will perhaps like to hear how it acted on I made a nlution of \#163 ; gr. to 5ij of water .
A minute drop on a small pin 's head 274 Drs. Brunton and Fairer on the Physiological [ Feb if acted powerfully on several glands , more powerfully than the fresh poiso from an adder 's fang .
" I also immersed three leaves in 90 minims of the solution ; the tei tacles soon became inflated and the glands quite white , as if they ha been placed in boiling water .
I felt sure that the leaves were killed ; bi after 8 hours ' immersion they were placed in water , and after about 4 hours reexpanded , showing that they were by no means killed .
Tb most surprising circumstance is , that , after an immersion of 48 hours , tb protoplasm in the cells was in unusually active movement .
Now , can yo inform me whether this poison , if diluted , arrests the movement \lt ; vibratile cilia ?
" " I dissolved | gr. [ of cobra-poison ] in 3j of water , so that I was ab !
to immerse two leaves .
It acted as before , but more energetically ; an I observed more clearly , this time , that the solution makes the secretio round the glands cloudy , which I have never before observed .
But hei comes the remarkable point ; after an immersion of 48 hours , the prot( plasm within the cells incessantly changes form , and I never saw it o any other occasion so active .
Hence I cannot doubt that this poison i a stimulant to the protoplasm ; and I shall be very curious to find out i your papers whether you have tried its action on the cilia and on th colourless corpuscles of the blood .
If the poison does arrest their move meant , it will show that there is a profound difference between the pro toplasm of animals and of this plant .
Therefore if you try any furthe experiments I hope that you wall be so kind as to inform me of the results I may add that I tried at first 1 gr. to the Sj , as that is my standard strength for all substances .
" It is certainly very remarkable that the poison should act so differ ently on the cilia and on the protoplasm of Drosera .
After the 48 hours immersion , I placed the two leaves in water and they partially reexpanded I thought that the whitened glands were perhaps killed ; but those o one leaf which I tried with carbonate of ammonia absorbed it , and th protoplasm was affected in the usual manner .
I am very much surprised a the action of the poison on the viscid secretion from the glands , which i coagulates into threads and bits of membrane , with much granular matter Have you observed whether the poison affects in any marked manne mucus or other such secretions ?
" Experiment XXV .
Action of Cobra-poison on .
June 29th , 1874.-\#151 ; A standard solution of cobra-poison , *03 grama1 { to 4*6 cubic centims. of water , was prepared .
:|H| 1.25 p.m. The gastrocnemius of a frog was separated and immersed k this solution in a watch-glass ; it immediately contracted considerably1.30 .
The muscle contracts with current at 11 .
1/ 5.3 Action of the Crotalus275 .45 .
The muscle has lost its irritability ; does not respond to the \#166 ; a shngest current .
Experiment XXVI .
It the same time ( 1.25 P.M. ) the gastrocnemius from the other leg of tf same frog immersed in water .
Did not immediately contract like \gt ; * fit placed in the poisoned solution .
L.30 .
Contracts strongly to current at 15 c. m. of Du Bois Reymond 's * cl , more than the poisoned muscle at 11 , at the same moment .
L.45 .
Contracts distinctly at 11 , whilst the poisoned muscle has lost a irritability .
Prom this it is evident that the poison first stimulates the muscular fre to contract , but rapidly afterwards destroys its irritability .
Experiment XXVII .
The gastrocnemii of a frog were again treated in the same way as in previous experiment , with precisely the same results .
June 28 th.\#151 ; Made several experiments with cobra-poison on ciliated dthelium of frog 's mouth , and found that it at first accelerated , then istroyed , the action of the cilia .
Experiment XXVIII .
To test the effects of Cobra-poison/ when swallowed , on the Frog .
June 24:th , 1874.\#151 ; At 2.25 p.m. about ^ of a gr. of dried cobra-poison is passed down a frog 's throat .
2.30 .
Prog making violent efforts to vomit .
Gaping .
Head thrown .ck tetanically .
2.34 .
Bloody mucus vomited with violent efforts 2.50 .
Moves with difficulty ; is becoming paralyzed .
Efforts to vomit ntinue .
3 .
Much the same .
3.5 .
Very weak ; still tries to vomit .
3.10 .
Reflex action still well-marked .
3.15 .
Motor nerves apparently quite paralyzed .
3.20 .
Apparent death .
Artificial Respiration with pure Oxygen .
43 life had been prolonged for many hours in snake-poisoning by arti-cial respiration with atmospheric air , it was thought expedient to as-ertain if the more complete oxygenation by the undiluted gas would be lore efficacious , as it seemed might be possible ; accordingly the following xperiment was made on the 24th April , 1874 .
* This experiment is especially interesting , as showing that frogs do occasionally omit , a fact which has been denied by some physiologists .
276 Drs. Brunton and Fairer on Physiological [ Feb. 18 Experiment XXIX .
| of a grain of dried cobra-poison dissolved in distilled water was injected into a rabbit with the hypodermic syringe .
Symptoms of poisoning were rapidly manifested .
A tube had been previously introduced into the trachea , and respiration was commenced as soon as poisoning was manifest .
Artificial respiration , with oxygen contained in a large bag , was steadily continued for two hours , but with no better effect than in other similar cases where atmospheric air was used for the same purpose ; At the expiration of two hours , apparent death had occurred ; the heart continued to beat for about two minutes after the respiration ceased .
Beyond a very florid condition of the blood , there was no obvious difference between the effect of oxygen and that of common air .
It did not indeed appear that , as far as the effects produced by the poison were concerned , it differed in its action from common air .
Experiment XXX ! .
November 1874.\#151 ; A little cobra-poison , dissolved in water , was added to water containing some cells scraped from the mantle of a freshwater mussel .
Among these was a large ciliated cell , which , before the addition of the poison , had been been moving slowly , although its cilia were moving actively .
Immediately after the addition of the poison the cell began to spin round on its own axis with extraordinary rapidity .
In about three or four minutes its motions began to be languid , the ciliary motion ceased , the cell itself elongated , contracted , and then , slowly resumed its former shape and became perfectly motionless .
Experiment XXXI .
Water from the interior of a freshwater mussel , and containing two specimens of Paramcecium in active motion , was examined .
They were rotating with great rapidity .
A little cobra-poison diluted with water was added .
Three minutes after the addition one was discovered with both the cilia and cell-body perfectly still .
* The cilia of the other were still , but the cell-body was contracted .
In about half a minute more it expanded to its normal size and then remained perfectly still .
Experiment XXXII .
A piece taken from the mantle of a freshwater mussel was placed on the slide and examined at the end of about half an hour .
Active ciliary motion could be observed both in the fringe of the mantle itself and m several specimens of Paramcecium .
A little dilute poison was added .
At first the ciliary motion seemed increased , but in about two minutes it became slower , and in six had become very languid , and in ten minutes stopped altogether in the specimens of Paramcecium , but still continued in some of the cilia of the mantle .
j'5.1 Action of the Crotalus-poison , fyc .
Experiment XXXIII .
L little dilute cobra-poison was added to a piece of the mantle of a fresh-\#171 ; ;er mussel .
The cilia began immediately to move much more rapidly , i s was watched for some time .
Ciliary motion not affected , or at all outs not arrested , after more than half an hour .
Experiment XXXIV .
December 10 th,1874.\#151 ; A piece of the gills of a freshwater mussel peed under the microscope and a little cobra-poison added at 10.40 p.m. 3b cilia were extremely active , it 10.55 still active .
LI.5 .
Several ciliated amoeboid masses are now quiet instead of rolling o:r and over as they did , but the cilia on their surface are still moving .
L1.15 .
The cilia on these Infusoria have now nearly all stopped .
A i\gt ; are moving slowly , whilst those on the gills are but little affected .
L1.55 .
Cilia on the gills are still quite active .
Those on the ciliated Hies still moving , rather more actively than before .
1.30 .
Cilia on gills have become much more sharply outlined .
Many a standing still , though many still move briskly .
Experiment XXXV .
To another specimen a strong solution of cobra-poison was added at :.50 .
1.30 .
Cilia still moving .
Experiment XXXVI .
A third specimen was laid in an almost syrupy solution of dried cobra-\#187 ; ison at 11.28 .
At 11.40 no effect observable .
1.30 .
Some have stopped , but numbers are still moving quite briskly .
In this case the poison seemed noti to have any action on the ciliary otion .
Experiment XXXVII .
January 6th , 1875.\#151 ; At 3.40 some diluted cobra-poison added to Val-meria .
Circulation going on vigorously .
About grain in three .ops of water .
3.58 .
The movements are unchanged .
5 p.m. Movements going on as before .
Experiment XXXVIII .
Added some solution of cobra-poison at 4 p.m. to another specimen of allisneria .
4.10 .
No change .
4.45 .
Circulation goes on vigorously .
4.55 .
Perhaps rather less brisk in their movements .
Letter from Mr. R. Mallet .
[ Feb. 25 The results of these experiments show that cobra-virus must be regar ded as , to a certain extent , a poison to protoplasm , seeing that it arrest \lt ; with rapidity the movements in Infusoria* { vide Experiments XXXI .
, and following ) .
Still it cannot be regarded certainly as a ver powerful one , for the cilia of the freshwater mussel continued to mov ' for many hours in a strong solution of cobra-poison ; though in othe experiments the action was apparently arrested even in weaker solu tions of the poison .
In the case of cilia from the frog 's mouth , th results were more definite , but action was not invariably destroyed .
Th results of the action of the poison on the amoeboid movements of th blood-corpuscles are not very definite .
In the case of th circulation in the cells went on with undiminished vigour after th application of the poison for two hours .
February 25,1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered fo them .
The following Communication from Mr. Robert Mallet , P.R.S. , wa read:\#151 ; Offices , 7 Westminster Chambers , Yictoria Street , London , S.W. , 6th February , 1875 .
G. G. Stokes , Esq. , Secretary , Royal Society .
Dear Sib , \#151 ; The large Mercator Chart of the World , which accom panies this communication , is that upon which , in time past , I and m ; eldest son , Dr. J. W. Mallet , laid down the distribution over the surfac of our globe of earthquake occurrence , based upon the great Earthquak Catalogue of the British Association compiled by us .
The method upon which the map was prepared , which includes bot frequency and intensity , has been fully described in my Reports upon th Pacts and Theory of Earthquakes , published in successive volumes of th Reports of the British Association .
The map itself is more particular ) referred to and described in the fourth of these Reports , published i 1856 .
This map has remained in my possession up to the present time-a reduced copy , very far from perfect and printed in chromo-lithograpl having alone been published by the British Association .
As this map , therefore , is unique , was the result of very great laboui and , from the system upon which it was prepared , may hereafter pr'v * Is this accounted for by the existence of a rudimentary nervous system dmuee throughout these two forms of life , and on which the poison could act ?
On the Integration of Algebraical .
aportant record for reference in the future progress of seismology , i Iv thought it desirable that it should be presented to the Royal \gt ; vK tie , with a view to it being preserved in the Archives of the Society ; uic !
' would beg to be informed whether the Council may think fit to iceit the deposit .
I remain , dear Sir , Truly yours , Robert Mallet .
he thanks of the Society were given to Mr. Mallet for his valuable [ 'rent .
ae following Paper was read:\#151 ; .
u the Integration of Algebraical Functions , with Illustrations in Mechanics .
" By W. H , L. Russell , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) le profound researches of Weierstrass , of Riemann , of Clebsch , and l\gt ; lan on the higher integrals have of late attracted the attention and o\lt ; the admiration of mathematicians .
There is , however , this differ- ?
n between these researches and the corresponding investigations in ai tic functions\#151 ; in the latter we investigate the properties of the inte-erw themselves ; in the former we investigate the properties , of certain firential equations , involving these integrals , and with more than one .uble .
How the values of the integrals themselves are to be found irei these equations is difficult to see , and at all events must be a subject ot lormous complexity .
Accordingly it becomes desirable to ascertain , !
\gt ; ssible , a more simple method of evaluating the integrals themselves .
' * is what I have attempted in the first section of this paper .
I express to values of irrational algebraic quantities by means of linear differential ; cations with rational coefficients , and then express their integrals by : \#187 ; us of converging series .
l the second section I consider , to a certain extent , the inverse pro-da\#151 ; namely , to ascertain under what circumstances linear differential cations of the second order are satisfied by irrational functions .
This " dem I have already considered , although in an incomplete manner , in ^Proceedings of the Royal Society .
i the third section I illustrate the principles enunciated in the il section by the solution of dynamical problems .
I show that 1 b principle of vis viva enables us to resolve these problems to a gi'eat \lt ; 0 , nt by means of hyperelliptic functions and the higher transcendents .
altogether I venture to hope that the memoir which I have the n , our to lay before the Society will be read with interest by mathema-\#166 ; Hns .

