233 1896 .
] Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
meter , a , of the sensitive surface was about ^ in .
, while A was 2 ft. , so that a/ A = 1/ 480 ; hence we have ( qp.)\#151 ; I Ji = 516 x 102\ that is , Procyon is equivalent to about 516 billions of billions of standard candles .
We cannot help being struck by the enormous power of Betelgeuse as indicated in the table .
The deflection observed was the mean of five , all very fairly close .
Now the only parallax recorded for this star , so far as I can ascertain , is a negative one !
The star is , therefore , immeasurably distant , and yet the E.M.F. of its light is very great ; lienee it must be possessed of tremendous energy .
We hope that our next observations will be taken with still better appliances , as Mr. Wilson has suggested a great improvement in the cell-carrying apparatus , which will enable us to see simply and with certainty when the light of the star is falling exactly on the sensitive selenium surface .
III .
" Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. VII .
Phylloporphyrin and Hsematoporphyrin : a Comparison .
' ' By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. , and Leon Marchlewski , Ph. D. Received January 23 , 1896 .
In the memoir on the Chemistry of Chlorophyll immediately preceding this one , we described a derivative of chlorophyll , the analysis of which , confirmed by that of its zinc salt , led to the formula C32H34N4O2 .
This substance being probably in the main identical with the phylloporphyrin of previous observers , we saw no reason to give it another name .
Recent investigations of the colouring matter of blood , more especially that of Nencki and Sieber , have shown that to the anhydride cf hfematoporphyrin , a derivative of haemoglobin , the formula C3.H34N4O5 is to be ascribed .
This formula differs from that of phylloporphyrin simply by three atoms more of 0 .
But the resemblance between the two substances is not confined to the approximation of their formulae ; it extends also to several of their physical properties , such as the colour of their solutions , but more especially the appearance of these solutions before the spectroscope , which is so nearly alike , so far as the absorption spectra are concerned , that not knowing their wide difference in other respects we might be inclined to consider them as identical .
That the two series of derivatives , that of chlorophyll and that of haemoglobin , each playing an important part in the vegetable and animal organism respectively , should so nearly touch at one point is certainly a remarkable circumstance .
In VOL. lix .
K 234 Messrs. E. Schunck and L. Marchlewski .
[ Jan. 30 , another respect the two series seem to be related .
It is well known that the colouring matter of blood is a derivative of pyrrol .
This appears to be the case with chlorophyll also , as the following experiment tends to show .
When phyllotaonin or one of its ethers is heated with zinc dust , a small quantity of distillate is obtained which smells strongly of pyrrol , and which , on treatment with hydrochloric acid , yields a colouring matter having the properties of pyrrol-red .
furthermore , when dry pliyllotaonin is heated , and the vapour given off is passed over a fir-wood splinter moistened with hydrochloric acid , the latter acquires an intense carmine colour , a reaction peculiar to pyrrol .
The hsematoporphyrin employed by us was obtained according to the method described by Nencki and Sieber.* Hcemin derived from blood was converted into hsematoporphyrin by solution in glacial acetic acid and treatment with hydrobromic acid ; it was purified by means of its crystallised chlorhydrate .
On comparing the properties of the hsematoporphyrin so obtained with those of phylloporphyrin , it was found that the two substances bore a strong resemblance to one another in some respects , and differed in others .
The solutions of hsematoporphyrin in neutral solvents such as alcohol and ether show the same colour and fluorescence as those of phylloporphyrin .
On the addition of acids they turn crimson , but with alkalis they lose their brilliant colour and become brownish-red .
As regards their behaviour to alkalis , the two substances differ considerably , phylloporphyrin being almost insoluble in aqueous alkalis , while haematoporphyrin dissolves easily therein .
The zinc salt of phylloporphyrin crystallises in brilliant red needles , while that of hsematoporphyrin cannot be made to crystallise .
Again , while an ethereal solution of phylloporphyrin yields crystals on evaporation , that of hsematoporphyrin gives only an amorphous mass .
As regards the formulae of the two substances , it may be stated , in addition to what has been said above , that if that of phylloporphyrin be halved and one H be added , we get Ci6H18K20 , which differs from that of haematoporphyrin , CisH^NaOs , by 20 less .
The formula CieETjsNaO requires numbers not differing very widely from those found by analysis .
The absorption spectra of the two substances exhibit a remarkable resemblance ; one may almost say they are identical .
The absorption spectrum of an ethereal solution of phylloporphyrin was shown in the preceding memoir , and need not therefore be again described .
That of hsematoporphyrin in neutral solutions is precisely the same , so far as regards the number and relative intensity of the bands , but the latter are slightly nearer the red end than in the case of pbyllo-porphyrin .
The spectrum of hsematoporphyrin in acid solutions has * ' Arcliiv f. experimecntelle Pathologie u. Pharmakologie , ' vol. 24 .
1896.1 Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
235 been variously described .
On examining a concentrated solution of hwmatoporpbyrin in dilute hydrochloric acid , two very dark bands are seen separated by an extremely narrow space , the one nearest the blue end having one edge shaded off .
On gradual dilution , the two bands become narrower , and between them there then appears a third band which , with a narrow slit , remains visible even on great dilution .
The same phenomena are seen in the case of phylloporphyrin .
Lastly , the zinc salt of heematoporphyrin in solution shows two absorption bauds , just as does that of phylloporphyrin .
The facts just described point , notwithstanding the differences observed , to some hear relationship between the two bodies .
They suggest the possibility of our being able to convert one into the other , or at least of obtaining by appropriate treatment some derivative common to both , such as the product described by Nencki and Sieber , due to the action of nitric acid on hsematoporphyrin .
The difficulty found in obtaining sufficiently large quantities of the two substances in a state of purity constitutes a formidable obstacle to the success of any such attempts .
We beg , in conclusion , to thank Professor Nencki for a specimen of hsematoporphyrin hydrochloride which he kindly presented to us .
EXPLANATION OP FIG-URE .
Absorption Spectra of Phylloporphyrin , Hsematoporphyrin , and several of their compounds .
1 .
Pliylloporphyrin in ether .
2 .
Heernatoporphyrin in ether .
3 .
Phylloporphyrin in hydrochloric acid .
4 .
Heematoporphyrin in hydrochloric acid .
5 .
Phylloporphyrin-zinc in alcohol .
6 .
Heematoporphyrin-ziuc in alcohol .

