198 Note on the Spectrum of the Nebula of Orion .
the universe , altogether distinct and of another order from the group of cosmical bodies to which our Sun and the fixed stars belong ; " * and that : " We have in these objects to do no longer with a special modification only of .our own type of Suns , but fin(j ourselves in the presence of objects possessing a peculiar and distinct plan of structure."f I shall take a subsequent opportunity of showing how untenable is the view he now communicates , that , although the nebulae represent early evolutionary forms , they are at a high tern- .
perature and that the constituents of the mass are arranged in the order of their vapour densities .
I refrain from discussing these points \ on the present occasion ; but I may remark that if such a view were \#166 ; true , and we further accept the statements that the nebula line was , seen in the comets of 1866-67 and that Nova Cygni probably exists as a planetary nebula of small angular diameter , we are driven to the .
conclusion that comets reduce their temperature as they approach the Sun , and that " new stars " get hotter as their luminosity diminishes , ' I " Note on the Spectrum of the Nebula of Orion .
" By J. Norman ' Lockyer , F.R.S. Received and read February 13 , 1890 .
\#166 ; In a former communication I gave in detail observations made by means of a siderosfcat , which seemed to put beyond all reasonable doubt the question of the origin and true wave-length of the chief ) nebula line .
Although , as I stated in the communication referred to , I regard this question as one of secondary importance , I have commenced another series of investigations with a view of eliminating all possible instrumental errors .
The new method has not been -completely carried out , but a sufficient approximation to it has been \#187 ; reached to render the results obtained of some interest .
Using the siderostat , object-glass , and collimator as before described , the method in question consists in using a vacuum tube , giving the lines both of hydrogen and nitrogen in front of the slit of the collimator .
The tube made for this purpose was found to have leaked when there was an opportunity of using it , so that the obser- j vations of hydrogen and nitrogen , in comparison with the nebula \lt ; lines , have not been made in the same field of view at the same time .
The hydrogen tube and an air spark with iron poles ( iron poles 1 being chosen in order to check the position of the nebula line near X 495 ) were , however , placed alternately in front of the slit of the J collimator , and this enabled the observations to be made with almost \gt ; equal accuracy .
I give the following extract from the Observatory * ' Row Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 14 , p. 42 .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1864 , p. 442 .
On Photographs of the Spectrum of the Nebula in Orion .
199 note-book .
The observations were made by Mr. Fowler ( who was assisted by Mr. Coppen ) on February 5 \#171 ; ]^[ade further observations of the nebula of Orion with 4-prism Steinheil spectroscope .
First compared nebula spectrum with spectrum of spark between iron poles close to slit , the secondary collimator not being used at all .
" Results.\#151 ; 495 nebula line exactty coincident with iron line 4956 8 .
At the same time , the 500 nebula line was certainly less refrangible than the nitrogen lines .
" Next adjusted collimator and put hydrogen tube and iron spark successively in front of slit .
" Results.\#151 ; 3rd nebula line coincident with F line of hydrogen .
" 495 line coincident with iron 4956 ; 8 .
" 500 line less refrangible than nitrogen lines .
" 500 line exactly coincident with magnesium fluting , whether the magnesium was burned behind the slit of collimator or at the centre of siderostat mirror .
" It will be seen that these observations entirely confirm those which I have already communicated to the Society , and also carry the work a step further in the determination of the actual wave-length of the nebula line near A , 495 by the siderostat and collimator method .
" Preliminary Note on Photographs of the Spectrum of the Nebula in Orion .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received and read February 13 , 1890 . .
In other communications to the Society , I have shown that the chief nebula line coincides absolutely in position with the remnant of the fluting seen in the flame of burning magnesium near A 500 , with the highest dispersion we could command at South Kensington .
Attempts have recently been made , therefore , with the 30-inch reflector at Westgate-on-Sea , to obtain photographs of the spectrum j the nebula , using magnesium as the term of comparison .
The L objects sought were , primarily , to determine whether there was a Hue in the nebula corresponding with one of the lines of the magne-sium triplet about A 373 , and to obtain as complete a photographic record as possible of , the spectrum between this triplet and A 500 .
ith this view , Mawson 's instantaneous plates were used , these ving been found to be fairly sensitive to the green .
The exposures ve been carried up to four hours , and five photographs have already even taken , some of them with shorter exposures than that named , in consequence of the sky becoming clouded or irregularities in the living clock , which is not yet completely finished .
One plate only Was exposed for four hours , on February 11 , but , unfortunately , in VOL. XLVIIi .
P

