]\gt ; Major P. A. " " Memoir on the Theory of the Partitions of Numbers .
Part II By Major P. A. MAcMAHON , , D.Sc .
, F.RS .
November 21 , \mdash ; Read November 24 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) Introduction .
The subject of the partition of numbers , for its proper development , requires treatment in a new and more comprehensive manner .
The subject matter of the theory needs enlargement .
This will be found to be a necessary consequence of the new method of regarding a partition that is here brought into prominence .
Let an integer be broken up.into any number of integers and we ascribe the conditions the succession is what is known as a partition of ?
There are conditions to which we may add if the integers be all of them positive ( or zero ) .
For the present all the integers are restricted to the positive or zero by hypothesis , so that this last-written condition will not be further attended to .
If , on the other hand , the conditions be no order of magnitude is supposed to exist between the successive parts , we obtain what has been termed a " " composition\ldquo ; of the integer Various other systems of partitions into parts may be brought mder view , because between two consecutive parts we may place either of the seven symbols We thus obtain different sets of conditions that may be assigned ; these are not all essentially different , and in many cases they overlap .
Memoir on the theory of the of Numbers .
For the moment I concentrate attention upon the symbol and remark that the conditions which involve this symbol , set forth bovo , co1lstitute one set of a larger class of sets which involve the symbol .
We may have the single condition wherein are integers , zero , or - , of which at least one must be positive , or we may have the set of conditions as the definition of the partitions considered .
If the ) instead of solution of the equations falls the of linear Diophantine analysis .
The problem before us may } ) regarded as bein one of linear partition analysis .
There is much in commoll between the two theories ; the problems ) treated by somewhat similar methods , and lead to results of the same general haracter .
The partition analysis of degree higher than the first , like the , is of a more recondits nature , and is left for the present out of I trcat the tition conditions by the method of generatin functions .
I seek the summation every set of ( integers ) conditions .
It th there , in every case , a finite nnmber of ground or solutions of the conditions , .
:\mdash ; Memoir on the Theory of the Partition of such that every solution is such that being positive integers .
This arises from the fact that every term of the summation is found to be expressible as a product Denoting this product by the generating function assumes the form wherein the denominator indicates the ground solutions and the numerator the simple and compound syzygies which unite them .
The terms denote first syzygies , , second , , , , third The reader lvill note the striking analogy with the generating functions of the theory of invariants .
Similar results are obtained as solutions of linear Diophantine equations .
Boiling Point of Liquid Hydrogen under Reduced Pressure .
227 The generating functions under view are real in the sense of Cayley and Sylvester Entlmerating generating functions of various kinds are obtained ) assigning squalities between the suffixed capitals Pntting , we the fimction which enumerates by the coefficient of , in the ascending ( ixpansion , the numbers of solutions for which be gathered the note of the following investigation is the tion of the idea that the solution of any system of equations of the form ( all the involved being integers ) is a problem of partition dvsis , and that the theory proceeds pnri with that of the Diophantine analysis .
On Boiling Poinb of Liquid under educed Pressurc By JAMES , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received and December 15 , 1898 .
The June number of the 'Proceedings of the Chemical Society ' by the author on " " The Boiling Point and Density of Liquid Hydrogon A resistance thermometer made of fine wire , No. 7 Thermometer , was used in the investigation .
It had refully cdibrated , and gave the following resistances at tures : Besist Telnpcr : ur .
Ohms . .
6.859 6.388 5.338 3.687 1.398 The of tho thermometer in tinum degrees J. 1 ) .
ellow of Pcterhouse , who contril ) paper to the ' Phil. ' for June , 1898 , on " " The lction

