354 On the Sexuality and Development of the Ascocarp op Humaria granulata Quel .
By Vernon H. Blackman , M.A. , Assistant , Department of Botany , British Museum ; Late Bellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge ; and Helen C. I. Fraser , B.Sc. , Assistant Lecturer , Boyal Holloway College .
( Communicated by Professor Marshall Ward , F.R.S. Received October 31 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1905 .
) [ Plates 13\#151 ; 15 .
] The observations of Harper ( 15 , 16 , 17 ) on , Erysiphe and Pyronema , have clearly shown that some at least of the Ascomycetes exhibit an ordinary sexual process .
It is true that attempts have been made by Dangeard ( 10 ) to refute Harper 's observations , and doubt has been cast on his work by Lindau ( 22 ) , Holtermann ( 18 ) , and others ; but the recent very convincing work of Claussen(SA ) on together with the strong circumstantial evidence obtained by Barker ( 1 and 2 ) in and Ryparobius , by Miss Dale ( 9 ) in Gymnoascus , and by Baur(3 , 4 ) , and Darbishire ( 10a ) in lichens , and , also , the confirmation by ourselves ( 7 ) of Harper 's work on Sphcerotheca , leave no doubt that the sexuality of the Ascomycetes is founded on a firm basis .
The earlier non-cytological observations of a number of forms , however , have shown clearly that the existence of a normal sexual process can hardly be expected in all the Ascomycetes .
For example , in parasitica Kihlmann ( 20 ) observed the development of the archicarp into the perithecium without the intervention of an antheridium ; in Chcetomium , Oltmanns ( 24 ) found that the antheridium was usually absent ; in the earlier observations of Woronin ( 25 ) and Janczewski ( 10 ) , and the later observations of Harper ( 16 ) , brought to light no definite antheridium .
Again , among the lichens , according to the observations of Fiinfstuck ( 13 ) , in Peltigera and Peltidea the ascogonia are without trichogynes ; and Solorina saccata , according to Baur 's ( 4 ) researches , seems clearly to develop without any ordinary fertilisation .
It is obviously , then , very desirable that the cytology of some member of the Ascomycetes , the ascocarp of which develops without fertilisation by an antheridium , should be carefully investigated .
The form here studied is of this type and hence is of peculiar interest .
Humaria granulata Qu^l ( = Peziza granulata Bull ) , a common Dis* The form investigated by Claussen would seem to be more correctly placed in the genus Ascodesmis(vide Fr. Cavara , ' Ami ales Mycologici , ' vol. 3 , 1905 , p. 363 ) .
Sexuality , etc. , of the Ascocarp o/ *Humaria granulata .
355 comycete about 5 mm. in diameter , and of a yellow , orange or reddish tint , is found growing on the dung of various animals , especially of cow , and is most abundant during autumn and winter .
The spores , apparently , normally germinate only after they have passed through the alimentary canal of the animal , for artificial cultures could not be obtained .
A preliminary peptic or tryptic digestion or a combination of both seemed to have no effect on germination .
Only a small number of experiments were made in this direction , for by bringing the material into the laboratory , natural cultures can sometimes be obtained , in which the fungus occurs in such abundance in appropriate stages that the necessity for artificial cultures is completely obviated .
The material was chiefly fixed in Fleming 's weak fluid , which was allowed to act either for 24 hours or for one hour , fixation being completed in the latter case with Merkel 's fluid .
Either safranin , gentian violet and orange , or Benda 's iron-lisematoxylin were used for staining .
The very youngest stages of the apothecia are of course quite invisible , even with a powerful hand-lens , but sections of them were secured by removing and fixing the superficial layers of the substratum on which young apothecia were just visible .
The behaviour of the closely-packed nuclei of the ascogonium was best followed in sections 4 pin thickness .
Vegetative mycelium.\#151 ; The vegetative mycelium consists of cells which show numerous nuclei , but these , unlike those of the ascogonium , are not at all well marked , but appear generally as slightly staining homogeneous or granular bodies which sometimes show a minute nucleolar dot ( Plate 13 , fig. 1 ) .
The cells of the whole vegetative mycelium and of the apothecium contain a number of fairly large spherical granules , which stain deep red with the safranin of the triple stain .
In all the hyphse of the vegetative mycelium and many of those of the ascocarp , these granules are found collected in groups on opposite sides of the transverse walls ( figs. 1 and 4 ) .
These groups of granules were observed by Woronin ( 25 ) in this form and in Ascobolus , and by Harper ( 17 ) in Pyronema , but their function is unknown : Harper has suggested that they may have something to do with the passage of material from cell to cell through the wall .
Ho reproductive organs other than the apothecia were observed in connection with this form .
Development of Apothecium .
As long ago as 1866 , " Woronin ( 25 ) showed that the apothecium began by the development of an archicarp as a side branch of an ordinary hypha of the mycelium .
He observed that the apical cell of this branch was round and very much swollen , and that , later , side branches grew up from the cells 356 Mr. Blackman and Miss Fraser .
Sexuality and [ Oct. 31 , of ' the stalk and completely invested the apical cell .
The large cell he considered to be of the nature of an egg , while one of the branches growing up from below he thought was probably of the nature of an antheridium ; he was unable , however , to follow any further details of development .
Actual Observations.\#151 ; As Woronin observed , the first beginning of the archicarp consists of a branch with a variable number of somewhat short cells ( figs. 2a , 2b , 3 ) .
The apical cell of this row is the ascogonium* which soon increases in size and becomes spherical , and exhibits beautiful vacuolate structure ( figs. 2a , 2b ) .
The lower cells also increase in size and both they and the ascogonium become closely filled with food-material , so that the whole archicarp has a dense and opaque appearance ( figs. 4 , 5 ) .
Before the ascogonium has attained its full size a number of narrow branches begin to grow out from the cells of the stalk immediately below ( fig. 4 ) .
These are the first beginnings of the investing hyphse which soon grow up and completely cover in with layers of plectenchyma the ascogonium and upper few cells of the stalk ( figs. 5 , 9 ) .
In cleared preparations , however , the cells of the ascogonium and of the stalk , owing to their greater density , can , for a time , be distinctly seen through the investing sheath ( fig. 5 ) .
The number of cells in the stalk is variable ; there may be.only a few , as is apparently the case in fig. 3 , but usually a large number are to be observed , as in fig. 5 .
From one of the cells about the middle of the stalk a small side branch was sometimes seen which grew down into the substratum and apparently aided the stalk in absorbing nourishment .
None of the hyphae which grow up from the stalk act in the way Woronin suggested ; they are all mere vegetative investing hyphse , no antheridium being developed .
The ascogonium shows a vacuolate protoplasm with a number of nuclei which are better defined than those of the vegetative cells ; with the growth of this organ these nuclei become much more distinct , exhibiting a nuclear membrane and a single deeply-staining nucleolus ( figs. 6 , 7 ) , but no chromatin is to be observed in the nuclear cavity .
As development proceeds the nuclei increase only slightly in size but enormously in number ; and the small vacuoles are replaced by one or more large ones ( figs. 8 , 10 ) .
At about the stage when the vegetative hyphse completely surround the ascogonium , the wall of the latter becomes thickened and shows a distinct differentiation into two layers , the outer , thin and deeply staining , the inner , thicker and lightly staining ( figs. 10 , 11 ) .
The wall between the ascogonium and the uppermost stalk cell exhibits at a young stage the usual apposed groups of granules , but at a later stage the * For a discussion of this use of the terms archicarp and ascogonium , vide infra .
1905 .
] Development of the Ascocarp Humaria granulata .
357 granules apparently fuse together , for when the ascogonium has reached its full size this wall shows two large and deeply-staining masses placed opposite one another on either side of the wall ( fig. 13 ) .
The masses sometimes show a central deeply-staining portion , and an outer , irregular , less dense portion ( fig. 13 ) .
When the ascogonium and stalk cells become emptied these masses disappear .
Besides the special accumulation on the walls a number of large granules are usually to be found scattered in the cytoplasm of the ascogonium and stalk cells ( fig. 9 ) .
When the ascogonium has become covered in with several layers of vegetative hyphse the ascogenous hyphse appear as narrow , thin-walled outgrowths from the thick-walled ascogonium , and make their way through the close mass of investing hyphse ( figs. 10 , 11 ) .
Into the ascogenous hyphse there pass nuclei and cytoplasm from the ascogonium , which becomes more and more vacuolate in appearance and is finally almost completely depleted .
It is clear that the ascogonium which produces the ascogenous hyphae has undergone no process of fertilization by male nuclei , so the development at first sight appeared to be a truly parthenogenetic one .
When , however , such a case as the development of the accidium of Phragmidium violaceum ( Blackman , 5 ) was considered\#151 ; where , in the absence of the male cell , there is a peculiar process of fertilization by the union of a vegetative cell with the female cell\#151 ; it seemed conceivable that a reduced process of a somewhat similar nature might be found in H. granulata also .
If this were so , two possibilities presented themselves ; either the ascogonium might be fertilised by the entrance of the contents of the uppermost stalk cell or of some other vegetative cell , or a fusion in pairs of the nuclei of the ascogonium might take place .
As no evidence of the first possibility could be obtained , the ascogonial contents were very closely examined at various stages of development , with the result that the second hypothesis was found to be correct , and the female nuclei were observed fusing in pairs in the ascogonium .
These fusions are to be observed in ascogonia of various ages , sometimes when the investment of the ascogonium has only just begun , but usually at some stage between investment and the emptying of the ascogonium .
There thus appears to be no definite stage of fusion for all the nuclei corresponding to that of Pyronema , but a gradual fusion in pairs takes place as development of the ascogenous hyphse proceeds .
The majority of fusions were observed when the ascogonium was partly emptied of its contents , as the nuclei are then not so deeply crowded-as in earlier stages , and the cytoplasm does not stain so deeply .
The nuclei in most stages are so close together that it is usually impossible to distinguish from mere accidental contact the contact of nuclei which is a 358 Mr. Blackman and Miss Fraser .
Sexuality and [ Oct. 31 , preliminary to fusion .
In a number of cases , however , nuclei were found in pairs more or less isolated from their fellows , which were probably to be considered as on the point of fusion .
The actual fusion of nuclei seems to take place very quickly , for such a stage as that of fig. 14 is rarely seen , but the nucleoli apparently remain for some time separate , for the nucleus with two nucleoli ( figs. 15 , 16 , 17 ) is found more frequently .
Apart from the stages of contact , which must necessarily be impossible to distinguish with certainty , more than 11 cases of actual fusion were observed , so there can be no doubt that the fusion of the ascogonial nuclei in pairs is a regular process .
The size of the nuclei is not of much help in deciding whether a given nucleus is or is not the result of fusion , as three or four different sizes of nuclei may be observed in a single ascogonium ( fig. 18 ) .
The nuclei apparently undergo a fairly rapid growth in size , those at the centre of the ascogonium being usually smaller , at least in the later stages , than those at the periphery .
The number of nuclei in the ascogonium varies apparently with the size of that structure , but in order to gain some idea of the number in an average ascogonium the nuclei were counted in two cases in a series of sections of an ascogonium .
In the young ascogonium , of which a section is shown in fig. 7 , the number 336 was determined , while the older one of fig. 10 gave 824 .
These countings are , of course , only approximate , as the nuclei are very .crowded , and lie sometimes one above the other ; also in the older ascogonium , a small number of the nuclei had already migrated , and some of those still remaining had , no doubt , already fused .
The number produced by the division of the original nuclei of the ascogonium might therefore be taken as about 1000 .
No data were obtained as to the number of nuclei in the ascogonium at its first inception , but judging from the size of the organ at that stage and from the relatively small number of nuclei in the vegetative cells , very numerous divisions must take place .
It is curious that such divisions were never observed in the ascogonium ; it is probable that they are intermittent in occurrence ; possibly they take place only at night .
When the nuclei pass out into the ascogenous hyphse they show a very distinct nucleolus and are easily defined structures ( fig. 11 ) ; thus the distinction of the ascogenous from the vegetative hyphse ( fig. 19 ) among which they ramify is rendered possible .
The ascogonium becomes finally emptied of its contents , though sometimes a few nuclei and a little cytoplasm remain behind at the periphery .
Soon after the ascogonium becomes empty , the connection of the ascogenous hyphse with it becomes obliterated , and these hyphse appear as independent structures .
This result is no doubt brought about by the pressure of the 1905 .
] Development 0/ the Ascocarp o/ 'Humaria granulata .
359 surrounding cells which leads to a slight collapse of the wall , and so to the obliteration of the cavity of the ascogenous hyphse at their point of origin .
Ultimately the whole ascogonium becomes obliterated , though it remains conspicuous as a large empty vesicle up to the time when the ascocarp first opens ( fig. 31 ) .
The stalk cells also become emptied ( fig. 30 ) , and are obliterated somewhat earlier , so that after the early stages of opening no trace at all of the archicarp can be observed .
It may be mentioned here that the nuclei of the uppermost stalk cell are generally more distinct than those of the ordinary vegetative hyphse , being intermediate in structure between those and the ascogonial nuclei ( figs. 11 and 12 ) .
In the earlier stages of development the whole of the nourishment for the growth of the apothecium is supplied by the archicarp from its reserve of material , the cells of the stalk supplying the branches which arise upon them , while the ascogonium supplies the ascogenous hyphse .
In the later stages , however , a " secondary mycelium " is formed consisting of vegetative hyphse which grow down into the substratum and absorb nourishment which is supplied to the vegetative hyphse of the ascocarp , and so indirectly to the .ascogenous hyphse which , after the emptying of the ascogonium , are practically parasitic on the vegetative hyphse .
The first asci are formed very early before the outer peridium is burst through ( fig. 30 ) ; they arise on the ends of the ascogenous hyphse by the peculiar process of the bending over of the apex and the fusion of the nuclei in the sub-terminal cell ( figs. 20 to 25 ) , such as has been described by Harper , Dangeard , Guillermond , and Claussen .
In two cases the ascus was observed in a terminal position as described by Maire(23 ) and by Guillermond ( 14 ) for Galactinia succosa .
When the two nuclei have fused in the ascus , the fusion nucleus begins to increase in size and to show a definite chromatin substance between nucleolus and wall .
The division of the nucleus does not call for any particular comment , as it is not very favourable for investigation ; the spindles are at first intranuclear and show well-marked centrosomes with radiations , but the chromosomes are too small to allow of an estimation of their number ( figs. 26 to 28 ) .
The method of spore formation in the ascus appears to be of the well-known type first described by Harper , but owing to the density of the contents of the ascus and the somewhat small size of the spores the object is not a favourable one for the study of the details of the process ( fig. 29 ) .
The paraphyses at their first appearance form a wedge-shaped mass , which appears to play a part in bursting open the peridium , as described by Harper in Ascobolus .
VOL. LXXVII.\#151 ; B. 360 Mr. Blackman and Miss Fraser .
Sexuality and [ Oct. 31 , The structure of the mature apothecium is of the ordinary type ; there is a definite parenchymatous peridium , a well-marked hypothecium consisting of large cells ; and the paraphyses are large and club-shaped and filled with orange granules ( fig. 31 ) .
General Considerations .
It is clear that the process of fusion in pairs of the female nuclei in the ascogonium of Humaria granulata must be considered as a reduced sexual process which , in the absence of the antheridium , replaces the normal fertilisation by male nuclei such as we find in , Pyronema , and Boudiera .
It renders even more untenable the most recent view of Dangeard* ( 10 ) that in the Ascomycetes as a whole there is no fertilisation in the ascogonium , but the sexual process has been shifted from that structure to the asci ; for in H. granulata we find that even in the absence of the antheridium the process of nuclear fusion is not confined to the asci , but there is an earlier fusion in the ascogonium , which must itself be considered as the sexual process , although of a reduced type .
As stated earlier , the question of the occurrence of an ordinary sexual process in some at least of the Ascomycetes must now be considered as completely settled .
Future work must decide how far the members of the group exhibit ordinary sexuality or the reduced process described above ; it is possible also that some forms are truly parthenogenetic , f while there appears to be no doubt that others , as the Exoascacece , are still further reduced , the asci having a direct vegetative origin .
It can hardly be denied that the process of fusion of the female nuclei in pairs is derived by reduction from the ordinary sexual process such as we find in Pyronema ; therefore it seems best to class such a process as a " reduced sexual process " ( Blackman(5 ) ) , in which the male gamete has been replaced by another female cell ( nucleus ) , the secidium , just as in violaceum ( 5 ) the male cell is replaced by a vegetative cell .
* Kuyper ( 21 ) in a recent paper , published since these observations were complete , lias : come to a conclusion somewhat similar to that of Dangeard .
He has investigated Monascm and finds there only a single nuclear fusion , and that in the ascogonium , but without relation to the male nuclei .
He considers Afonascus a primitive form and that in the other Ascomycetes the fusion has been shifted to the ascus .
Different results have been obtained by other workers on Monascus , and Kuyper 's figures are not very convincing ; but if there is only a single fusion , such a fusion is obviously comparable to the first fusion in Humaria granulata and not to the second .
+ That is with potential female gametes developing without any process of cell or nuclear fusion .
If there be a true alternation of cytologically distinct generations in the Ascomycetes this is not likely to occur , as true and complete parthenogenesis is unknown in plants possessing such an alternation .
1905 .
] Development of the Ascocarp of Humaria granulata .
361 Davis ( 12 ) has criticised such a terminology in the case of Phragmidium , and objects to the use of the terms fertilization or sexual process being applied to any union in which the fusion is not between the regular male and female cells .
He would class these irregular processes under the head of asexual fusions .
It is true that a fusion in which the special sexual cells do not both take part cannot , from a purely morphological point of view , be a sexual process .
When , however , it is considered that in some of these irregular fusions one of the sexual cells actually takes part , and also that they are of very special nature , being directly related in the phylogeny of the group to the ordinary sexual process , in fact , replacing that process in the life history , they can hardly be satisfactorily relegated to a class of asexual unions , where they are herded with processes most of which have not been shown to have any connection with true sexual fusions.* If on strict morphological grounds these fusions are separated from true sexual processes they should obviously be made a class apart , quite distinct from the asexual unions.j* It is doubtful , however , whether a purely morphological test of a sexual process ( syngamy ) is desirable when we consider that the process is essentially a physiological one and that primitively it occurs between vegetative cells ( e.g. , Spirogyra , some Protozoa ) .
Further , these irregular processes show no characters for which a parallel cannot be found in other accepted sexual processes ; for in the simplest cases the fusing cells are not differentiated , and in other cases of sexuality the blood-relationship between the fusing cells ( e.g. , lateral conjugation in Spirogyra , sexuality in and many Phycomycetes ) is apparently as close as in the process under discussion .
Since , then , these special processes in themselves have no characters which remove them from the class of sexual unions , and since they take place * Such as the fusion of nuclei in endosperm cells , and in cells which have been placed under abnormal conditions , the fusion of nuclei in the ascus , the " vegetative " cell fusions in the Floridese , etc. t In the present state of our knowledge the cell and nuclear unions among plants would seem to be best divided into four classes :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Cell-unions of an ordinary sexual nature : ( 2 ) Reduced sexual processes as described above : ( 3 ) Nuclear unions , such as are found in the teleutospore , basidium , and perhaps those of the spores of the Ustilaginese ; these ( at least in the case of some Uredineae and probably in the other cases ) are the direct result of sexual , or reduced sexual , processes which exhibit nuclear association without nuclear fusion : ( 4 ) Asexual cell and nuclear unions , which are of doubtful or purely vegetative nature .
The third class is of very special nature , and it is not satisfactory to class them , as does Davis , with the asexual unions .
362 Mr. Blackman and Miss Fraser .
Sexuality and [ Oct. 31 , at a definite point in the life-cycle , and replace in phytogeny the ordinary sexual process , it seems proper that their relations should be exhibited in the terminology , and they should be classed as sexual processes or fertilizations , with the addition of the term " reduced , " which indicates that one , or both , of the regular sexual cells has been replaced by some other cell .
In the case of Phragmidium violaceum* and the " apogamous " prothallia , we may consider that there has been a sudden return in part , or as a whole , to the primitive condition where every vegetative ( gametophytic ) cell is a gamete .
It appears , then , from the study of H. granulata that the female ccenogamete possesses a very striking property\#151 ; the capacity to fertilize itself .
It may be that in this capacity lies the explanation of the development without male sexual organs which seems normal for a large number of Ascomycetes ; future research can alone settle this point .
Although the sexual process to be observed in H. granulata is , of course , morphologically reduced in relation to the normal sexual process , yet physiologically there can be little to choose between the fusion of ascogonial nuclei , which may be separated in descent by many divisions , and the ordinary sexual fusion in which , as is often the case , the antheridum and ascogonium are intimately related in origin .
In fact the kinship of the fusing nuclei may very likely be closer in where sexual organs are borne in pairs on the same hypha and contain a small number of nuclei , than in Humaria , where the number of nuclei in the ascogonium is very great.f As has been suggested elsewhere ( Blackman ( 6 ) ) , the majority of the ( morphologically ) normal sexual fusions in the Fungi , exhibiting as they do close-related sexual organs , are already physiologically reduced in relation to the typical ( and probably primitive ) exogamic sexual process .
The morphological reduction found in the special fusions is thus only a small step which does not affect the physiological nature .
In other words , instead of the fusion of the gametes from two gametangia borne close together and in intimate relation on the same plant , we have the abortion of the one and the fusion in pairs of the gametes of the other ; put in this * The case- of the secidium of another species , P. in which neighbouring cells fuse in pairs , described by Christman ( 8 ) , and considered by him as a simple process of conjugation of undifferentiated gametes , would seem to be much better interpreted as a reduced sexual process , in which , in the absence of the male cells ( spermatia ) , the female gametes fuse in pairs , as in H. granulata ( vide 7a ) .
t It is not asserted that the close kinship or otherwise of the fusing nuclei necessarily makes any physiological difference , but that judged by this standard the processes are essentially similar ; and it is not clear that there are any other physiological factors which would differentiate the two processes .
1905 .
] Development of the Ascocarp of Humaria granulata .
363 way it is clear that there is a morphological difference , but a physiological difference is not easily conceivable .
When one considers the apparent physiological equivalence of the ordinary and the reduced sexual processes , the ease with which " self-fertilization " can be carried on in the ccenogamete , the small number of forms in which an ordinary sexual process has been observed , and the fairly large number which appear to have no antheridium , it seems not improbable that the reduced sexual process will prove to be the more common type of fertilization in the Ascomycetes .
It is obvious that the occurrence of fusions among the nuclei of the female coenogamete itself renders still more difficult the investigation of the sexual cell of this type .
The mere presence of a male organ and the observations of nuclear fusions in the female cell is now not sufficient to prove a normal fertilization ; nor even is continuity between male and female organs , for the male nuclei may degenerate situ , and a reduced fertilization of the H. granulata type may take place .
To prove the existence of ordinary fertilization , evidence must be obtained for an actual migration of male elements to the female organ .
It might perhaps be suggested by some that the nuclear fusion observed by Harper in Pyronema were really fusions between female nuclei like those in H. granulata .
Harper 's observations on the passage of the male nuclei into the oogonium seem , however , sufficiently satisfactory to allow of this supposition being put on one side .
Dangeard 's observations on Pyronema are very probably to be explained by the supposition that he was working on a form with a functionless antheridium .
He worked with artificial cultures , while Harper used natural ones , and it has been shown by Van Tieghem ( 26 ) , in a paper which seems to have been overlooked in the discussion , that Pyronema is very susceptible to artificial conditions .
In his cultures Van Tieghem observed forms which were normal , forms which showed the ascogonium and antheridium reduced in size , and lastly forms in which the antheridium was absent , but the ascogonium developed normally .
Dangeard was probably investigating a form in which the antheridium , though still present , had already become functionless ; in the light of the series of forms observed by Van Tieghem , one cannot conclude with Dangeard that the antheridium is always functionless .
In such a case as Pyronema with a functionless antheridium a " reduced fertilization " similar to H.granulata is to be expected ; such a process would almost certainly be overlooked unless attention was specially directed to it .
The other forms lately investigated by Dangeard ( 10 ) , in which either the antheridium was absent or the male nuclei degenerated , may , perhaps , 364 Mr. Blackman and Miss Fraser .
Sexuality and [ Oct. 31 , also be explained by the fact that a reduced fertilization in the ascogonium was overlooked .
Exact data as to the nuclear behaviour of Ascobolus furfuraceus in its early stages of ascocarp development will be of special interest .
It would seem likely that the nuclei fuse in pairs when they meet , as described by Harper ( 16 ) , in the large ascogonial cell which gives origin to the ascogenous hyphse .
One of Harper 's figures shows these nuclei in very close contact .
It is possible , also , that the parthenogenesis in other forms , in which a ccenogamete develops without the intervention of a male organ ( e.g. , the Mucorini and Saprolegniacese ) , may be explained in the same way , by a fusion , in pairs , of the female nuclei , * and so not be a true parthenogenesis .
The fusion in the ascus still remains a most puzzling process , for which , at present , no explanation is forthcoming .
That it is not a substitute for the ordinary sexual process , nor a nuclear fusion which has been shifted , in descent , from the ascogonium to the ascus , as Dangeard and Kuyper believe , is clearly shown ( apart from such forms as Boudiera , etc. ) by H. granulata , where , even in the absence of the antheridium , the fusion in the ascus is preceded by a fusion in the ascogonium .
On the other hand , the curious simultaneous division of the two nuclei at the time of ascus formation\#151 ; whether .the ascogenous hypha bends over at the apex or whether it remains straight , as in Galactinia succosa\#151 ; seems only to be explained as a method of ensuring that the fusing nuclei are separated in descent by at least one division .
How , such a separation , in descent , of the fusing nuclei is , as far as we know , an attribute of sexual fusions alone ( though in many fusions which are accepted as sexual , the degree of relationship is very close ) .
We have thus two closely related fusions , one of which is obviously a sexual fusion , while the other , in one character at least , partakes of a sexual nature* A satisfactory solution of the difficulty of the dual fusions can hardly be expected till we know the number of chromosomes throughout the life-history of some ascomycete .
That there is a definite alternation of generations in the life-history of Ascomycetes which possess an ascogonium seems very probable .
The ordinary vegetative mycelium would appear to be the gametophyte , which bears the ascogonium , and antheridium if present , while the products of fertilization , the ascogenous hyphse ( which are parasitic on the gametophyte ) and the asci , represent the sporophyte .
The countings of chromosomes are , however , too few and too unsatisfactory to allow of * Kuyper ( 21 ) has independently made a similar suggestion in the case of the Saprolegniacese , and has even suggested that the figures of Davis ( 11 ) on egg development in Saprolegnia support the view of a nuclear fusion .
1905 .
] Development of the Ascocarp o/ 'Humaria granulata .
365 a decision as to the cytological distinction of the two generations .
It would seem , also , that there must be two reductions , as there are two fusions .
The three divisions in the ascus might be expected to show at least one reduction , but Harper ( 17 ) is of the opinion that the number of chromosomes remains unaltered during these divisions .
Of course , it is possible that the second fusion is of a peculiar nature and does not lead to a doubling of the chromosomes .
What is obviously necessary is the discovery of a sexual ascomycete with a small number of distinct chromosomes in its nucleus , so that the number can be observed throughout the life-history.* De Bary uses the term archicarp as practically synonymous with ascogonium .
It seems [ much more satisfactory to use the term archicarp for the whole fertile branch , apart from the antheridium , and to confine the term ascogonium to that part of the archicarp the contents of which take part in the formation of ascogenous hyphse , i.e. , the reproductive cell or cells which contain the female nuclei .
It is in this sense that the terms have been used in the body of the paper .
Used in this sense the term ascogonium is not necessarily confined to the cell or cells actually giving origin to the ascogenous hyphse .
In Ascobolus for example , the whole curved fertile branch , or scolecite , is the archicarp ; the central part would be the ascogonium , which is divided into a number of cells by a series of perforate septa , as Harper ( 16 ) has shown ; only one of the cells of the ascogonium , however , actually gives origin to the ascogenous hyphse , though the contents of all the ascogonial cells pass into this special cell and so into the ascogenous hyphse .
In jparasitica , from the observations of Kihlmann , the ascogonium is represented by one or two cells of the archicarp , though the cytological details are not known .
In Pyronema , Humaria , Sphserotheca , and Erysiphe the ascogonium is a single cell , and naturally gives origin to one or more ascogenous hyphse .
In Gollema the archicarp consists of a few small sterile cells at the base , then comes the ascogonium , which is multicellular , and above is the multicellular trichogyne ; all the cells of the ascogonium appear to give origin to ascogenous hyphse .
* The view that there are two reduction processes is also put forward by Harper in a very important paper ( " Sexual Reproduction and the Organization of the Nucleus in certain Mildews , " ) received while the present paper was passing through the press .
366 Mr. Blackman and Miss Fraser .
Sexuality and [ Oct. 31 , LIST OF PAPERS .
1 .
Barker , B. T. P. " The Morphology and Development of the Ascocarp in Monascus , " ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 17 , 1903 , p. 167 .
2 .
Barker , B. T. P. " Further Observations on the Ascocarp of Ryparobius , " Leaflet , Brit. Assoc. Meeting , 1904 .
3 .
Baur , E. " Die Anlage und Entwickelung einiger Flechtenapothecien , " ' Flora , ' vol. 88 , 1901 , p. 319 .
4 .
Baur , E. " Untersuchungen uber die Entwickelungsgeschichte der Flechtenapothecien , " ' Bot. Zeit .
, " vol. 62 , 1904 , p. 21 .
5 .
Blackman , V. H. " On the Fertilization , Alternation of Generations and General Cytology of the Uredinese , " 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 18 , 1904 , p. 323 .
6 .
Blackman , V. JEL " On the Relation between Fertilization , 'Apogamy ' and 'Parthenogenesis , ' " 'New Phytologist , ' vol. 3 , 1904 , p. 149 .
7 .
Blackman , V. H. , and Fraser , H. C. I. " Fertilization in Sphserotheca , " ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 19 , 1905 , p. 567 .
7a .
Blackman , V. H. , and Fraser , H. C. I. " Further Studies on the Sexuality of the Uredineae " ( ibid. , vol. 20 , 1906 , pt .
1 ) .
8 .
Christman , A. H. " Sexual Reproduction in the Rusts , " ' Botan. Gazette , ' vol. 39 , 1905 , p. 267 .
8a .
Claussen , P. " Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Ascomyceten .
Boudiera , " ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' vol. 63 , 1905 , p. 1 .
9 .
Dale , E. " Observations on the Gymnoascaceae , " 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 17 , 1903 , p. 571 .
10 .
Dangeard , P. A. " Recherches sur le D6veloppement du P6rithece chez les Ascomycetes , " ' Le Botaniste , ' 9e s6rie , 1904 , p. 59 .
10a .
Darbishire , O. " V. " Die Apotbecienentwickelung von Physcia , " ' Jahrb .
f. wiss .
Botanik , ' vol. 34 , 1903 , p. 329 .
11 .
Davis , B. M. " Oogenesis in Saprolegnia , " 'Botan .
Gazette , ' vol. 35 , 1903 , p. 233 .
12 .
Davis , B. M. " Studies on the Plant Cell , " ' The American Naturalist , ' vol. 35 , 1905 , p. 217 .
13 .
Fiinfstuck , M. " Beitrage zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Lichenen , " 'Jahrb .
d. K. Botan. Gart .
zu Berlin , ' vol. 3 , 1884 , p. 155 .
14 .
Guilliermond , A. ' Contrib. ft l'6tude de la Formation des Asques , " 'Rev .
G6n .
de Botanique , ' vol. 16 , 1904 , pp. 49 and 129 .
15 .
Harper , R. A. " Die Entwickelung des Peritheciums bei Sphcerotheca Castagnei " 'Ber .
d. d. Bot. Geo. , ' vol. 13 , 1895 , p. 475 .
16 .
Harper , R. A. " Ueber das " Verhalten der ELerne bei der Fruchtentwickelung einiger Ascomyceten , " ' Jahrb .
f. wiss .
Botanik , ' vol. 29 , 1896 , p. 655 .
17 .
Harper , R. A. " Sexual Reproduction in Pyronema etc. , " 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 14 , 1900 , p. 321 .
18 .
Holtermann , C. " Mykologische Untersuchungen aus den Tropen , " Berlin , 1898 .
19 .
Janczewski , E. " Morphologie des Ascobolus 'Botan .
Zeit .
, ' vol. 29 1871 , p. 257 .
20 .
Kihlm\amp ; nn , O. " Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Ascomyceten , " ' Acta Soc. Sc. Fennicse , ' vol. 14 , 1885 , p. 309 .
21 .
Kuyper , H. P. " Die Perithecien-Entwicklung von Went .
usw .
, " ' Annales Mycologici , ' vol. 3 , 1905 , p. 32 .
22 .
Lindau , G. " Die naturlichen Pflanzenfamilien , " Teil 1 , Abt .
1 , 1897 , p. 323 .
23 .
Maire , R. " Recherches cytologiques sur les Ascomycetes , " ' Annales Mycologici , vol. 3 , 1905 , p. 123 .
1905 .
] Development of the Ascocarp o/ 'Humaria granulata .
367 24 .
Oltmanns , F. " Ueber die Entwickelung der Perithecien in der Gattung Chaetomium , " * Bot. Zeit./ vol. 45 , 1887 , p. 192 .
25 .
Woronin , M. " Sir Entwicklungsgeschichte des Ascobolus , Cr .
usw./ ' ' Beitr .
sir Morphol .
u. Physiol , der Pilze , Zweite Beihe/ 1866 , p. 1 .
26 .
Van Tieghem , Ph. " Culture et d6veloppement du Pyronema confluens " ' Bull , de la Soc. Bot. de France/ voL 31 , 1884 , p. 35 .
EXPLANATION OF PLATES .
Plate 13 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Portion of mycelial hypha showing the nuclei , and deeply-staining granules on the transverse wall , x 1900 .
Figs. 2a and 2b.\#151 ; Two young archicarps growing up from the general mycelium : fresh preparations , x 430 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Slightly older archicarp in section , x 430 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Archicarp showing the vegetative hyphse beginning to grow out from the cells beneath the ascogonium .
The granules on the wall are clearly visible , x 620 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Young ascocarp in which the ascogonium and the sub-terminal cells of the archicarp are covered in by the vegetative hyphse .
x 430 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Section of young ascogonium showing ascogonial nuclei , x 1050 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Section of slightly older ascogonium .
x 1050 .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Section of ascogonium and basal cell of archicarp which have just become covered in by the vegetative hyphse .
The vegetative as well as ascogonial nuclei are clearly visible , x 1050 .
Plate 14 .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Section of ascocarp of about the age shown in fig. 5 .
The granules in the ascogonium and the partial emptying of the stalk cells are to be clearly seen , x 430 .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Section of upper part of young ascocarp showing ascogonium partly filled with nuclei and " basal cell " below .
Three ascogenous hyphse can be traced throughout their whole length , while portions of others are visible among the vegetative plectenchyma .
Nuclei are to be faintly distinguished in the " basal cell " and some of the vegetative cells , x 1050 .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; Section of somewhat older ascocarp showing the ascogonium and three stalk cells .
The majority of the nuclei have already migrated from the ascogonium .
x 620 .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; Section showing the nuclei in the basal cell and the cells immediately surrounding , x 1050 .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; Section through the lower part of the ascogonium and the upper part of the basal cell showing the curious granular masses on the transverse wall , x 1010 .
Fig. 14.\#151 ; Two female nuclei of the ascogonium in the process of fusion , x 2700 .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; A group of ascogonial nuclei with a fusion-nucleus showing nucleoli in act of fusion , x 2700 .
Fig. 16.\#151 ; A group of nuclei of ascogonium with a large-fusion nucleus with two nucleoli , x 2700 .
368 Sexuality , etc. , of the Asco of Humaria granulata .
Plate 15 .
Fig. 17.\#151 ; A group of nuclei from an ascogonium showing one fusion-nucleus with two nucleoli , another with nucleoli which are just fusing , x 2700 .
Fig. 18.\#151 ; Group of ascogonial nuclei of different sizes , x 2700 .
Fig. 19.\#151 ; Ascogenous hyphse and vegetative hyphse showing the distinction of the nuclei , x 1900 .
Figs. 20\#151 ; 25.\#151 ; Stages in the development of the ascus at ends of the ascogenous hyphse .
Figs. 26\#151 ; 28.\#151 ; Three stages of the first nuclear division in the ascus .
x 1900 .
Fig. 29.\#151 ; Spore formation in the ascus .
x 1900 .
Fig. 30.\#151 ; Section of young ascocarp showing the wedge of paraphyses bursting through the peridium .
The nearly empty ascogonium and stalk cells are visible , x 175 .
Fig. 31.\#151 ; Section through slightly older ascocarp when the peridium has been burst through completely , the hymenial layer definitely arranged , and a certain number of spores formed .
The empty ascogonium is still visible , but the rest of the archicarp has disappeared , x 60 .
fiUckmaro \amp ; Eraser .
Soc. Proc. B. 77 .
yicickiruwy Foy .
Soc. Proc. B. vol. 77 .
PI .
14 .
iftshley , del.etlith .
Highley , imp .
Slobckrrbarb \amp ; Fraser .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B. ^.\#166 ; Highley , del .
eb 11th .
Highley.imp .

