]\gt ; The Theory of the Compositions of Numbers .
\mdash ; Part II .
By Major P. A. MacMahon , F.R.S. , etc. ( Received August 23 , \mdash ; Read December 6 , 1906 .
) ( Abstract .
) This investigation was recently suggested to the author by Professor Simon Newcomb .
A pack of cards is shuffled and then dealt out in succession , the cards being placed in one heap or pack so long as the numbers of pips on them are in ascending order ( equality in the numbers of pips as ascending order ) ; when there is a break in ascending order , a fresh heap or pack is commenced , and so on .
In this way a set of packs will be formed containing cards respectively .
If the total number of cards be , it is clear that the succession of numbers constitutes \ldquo ; composition\ldquo ; of the number into parts .
Denote by the number of arrangements of the cards which yields the composition and by the number of ements which yields compositions into parts .
The investigation is primarily concerned with the properties of the numbers ( 1 ) When no two cards in the complete pack have the same num'oer of pips ; ( 2 ) When the cards are numbered in any manner whatever .
This investigation is essentially a contribution to the Theory of the Compositions of Numbers .
The method employed is " " the powerful calculus of symmetric functions The associated differential operators are freely used , and a complete solution of the main problems of the paper is presented .
Incidentally some useful and novel ideas in the pure theory of synumetric functions are reached and developed .
The Theory of the Compositions of Numbers .
In regard to the roots of the equation a new symmetric function is defined by impressing a multiplication theorem upon the elementary functions ; viz. , I write and generally ; and in regard to the homogeneous product-sums similarly , The main question concerning the numbers is solved by means of the symmetl.ic function ; and I obtain the important theorem where ) , are conjugate compositions of The composite conjugate to a given one is readily obtained from the nodal graph of a composition given for the first time in this paper .
As an illustration , the graph of the composition is given by each row of nodes commencing vertically beneath the right-hand node of the previous row .
The conjugate is thence obtained by reading the columns from left to right , viz.:\mdash ; ( 12111112 ) .

