]\gt ; Tlnj of the Double Grmima Function .
bxplained by the fact that lvhen the monkeys received a banana or apple every day , they would be less likely to eat as much of the meat as they would otherwise do , and would thus daily receive a smaller dose of ptomaine .
In spite of this fact , in no less than four cases out of the five did we get bloody motions , and in of the cases spongy gums .
In these cases tainted meat alonc seems to have produced scorbutic symptoms .
' although the animals in this group took longer to deveJop the symptoms , and seemed not to suffer in such a severe form .
Looking at the results of our experiments on monkeys , as a whole , we venture to think that they afford important confirmation of the conclusion derived from Arctic experience , as referred to in the part of this paper , that the absence or presence of fresh vegetables or lime iuice is not alone sufficient for the ention or the cure of scurvy , and that we must regard the dition of the food in generaL and especially the state of preservation of the meat , as the essential factor in the etiology of the disease .
We have to express our thanks to Dr. Francis .
for his untiring assistance in the numerous observations that had to be made during the eighteen months the research was continued .
" " The Theory of the Double Gamma Function E. BAP .
, Fellow of Trinity , Cambridge .
Comnunicated by Professor A. B. SITH , Sc. D. , ceived February 26 , \mdash ; Read March 15 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir deals with a metion which is substantially of the function of Weierstrass , just as the ordinary ( simple ) function is substantially one-half of the infinite sine product .
The analogy between the two functions determines the nomenclature .
In any development of the simple gamma function from the functiontheory point of , it is necessary to use 's theorem to obtain the product given by ' a solution of the diflereltce equation ) imilarly for the theory of the doul ) gamma Mr. .
W. Barnes .
investigated in Part II of the memoir , two forms , and are considered which arise substantially as finite terms in the approximations for and where , when ?
is large .
These approximations shown to involve logarithms of , and ; and the relative distribution of the points in the Argand diagram representing these quantities causes the introduction of two numbers and of fundamental in the theory .
The double gamma function given is shown to satisfy the two difference relations , The functions and are called the first and second donble gamma modular forms respectively .
The double gamma function can be expressed in two ways as an infinite produot of simple gamma functions ; it can be connected with unsymmetrical function first considered by Alexeiewsky ; and in terms of it , Weierstrass ' elliptic functions can be expressed .
By means of the values of the numbers and the well-known relation can be , as well as the mdamental formulae of the function .
Fumdamental in the theory of double gamma functions is the double Riemann function , ) , which is considered in Part III , and is the simplest solution of the difference equation where have any complex values such that is not and 1Iegative , altd a has its valne with respect to the axis of This function is expressible as a contour-integral by means of the relation Theory of Double Gcmuna Function .
and the determination of the axis of the contour and the number depends upon the distribution of the points , and .
By means of this function we obtain asymptotic approximations for summations of the type when is a very large number and has any complex value .
We can also obtain an asymptotic approximation for the product Since Stirling 's theorem gives the asymptotic evaluation of !
, we obtain , on putting , an extension of Stirling 's theorem to two parometers .
We find , as the absolute term , the double Stirling function , which is the analogue of the simple Stirling form All the double asymptotic expansions involve as their coefficients double Bernoullian functions and numbers .
The double Bernoullian function is an algebraic polynomial which satisfies the two difference equations and possesses properties exactly analogous to the corresponding simple forms .
The theory of this function forms Part I of the memoir .
From the contour-integral expression for the double Riemann function it is possible to obtain similar expressions for the logarithm of the double gamma function and its derivatives , for the first and second double gamma modular forms , and for the logarithm of the double Stirling function .
Under certain restrictions these contour-integrals can be transformed into line-integraIs .
The double gamma function admits of transformation and multiplijation theories developed in Part .
By means of the latter theory we may express the double Stirling as a product of double gamma functions of arguments , and respectively .
There is also a transformation theory for the double gamma modular and the ) Stirling function .
The extension of Raabe 's formula for the simple gamma function leads to certain ' integral formulae The integral VOL. occedings and List of Papers read .
can be expressed in terms of double gamma functions of equal para .
meters , and the two integrals can be substantially expressed in terms of the double Stirling function of and It is shown in Part that it is possible to obtain an asymptotic approximation when is very large , for , which is valid over that part of the region at infinity in which tbere are no zeros of .
The coefficients in this expansion are double Bernoullian functions of Finallyit is proved that the double gamma function does not satisfy any differential equation whose coefficients are not substantially that funotion or its derivatives .
There exist -ple gamma functions whose properties can be obtained by an easy generalisation of the previous theory . .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Croonian Lecture\mdash ; " " On Immunity , with Special Reference to Cell Life\ldquo ; \mdash ; was delivered by Professor PAUL EHRLICH , of Frankforton the-Main . .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :

