296 Dr. G. Gore .
Electric Currents [ Jan 6 consisting of either mutual attraction or repulsion of the two liquids and that the to and fro movement is a secondary circumstance arising from this in consequence of the greater adhesion of the solution than of the mercury to the tube .
The relations of the phenomena to heat and temperature are discussed , and the inference drawn that these influences perform only an unimportant part in the actions .
With regard to the electric conditions , it is observed that the phenomena are inseparably connected with electric transfer , and may be attended or not by electrolysis ; the latter , when present , being only a coincidence .
Various experiments were made with electricity derived from an electrophorus , and the effects obtained are described in different parts of the paper ; and the sensitiveness of the instrument to electric influence is illustrated .
From the various results obtained by the author and other investigators , a conclusion is drawn that the phenomenon is essentially one of electric convection ; that the primary mechanical movement at the two liquid surfaces is due to a more or less charged electric state of those surfaces , which under the conditions of unequal adhesion of the two liquids to the tube produces the to and fro movement .
The movements were independent of chemical action .
VII .
" Electric Currents caused by Liquid Diffusion and Osmose .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 9 , 1880 .
The following experiments arose out of a research on " The Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
" As the converse phenomena of electric diffusion and electric osmose of liquids would be the production of electric currents by liquid diffusion and osmose , I made various attempts to obtain them .
Other investigators have already obtained electric currents by means of the contact of two liquids.* Nobili appears to have been the first .
In his arrangement , each element consisted of a series of four glass cups , each containing an electrolyte , the liquids in the two terminal vessels being precisely alike , and containing platinum electrodes , and a second and third kind of liquid being in the two intermediate cups respectively .
Liquids of suitable specific gravity were selected , such as not to spontaneously mix .
The solutions were connected by means of liquids ( similar to those in the cups ) contained # Nobili , " Ann. de Chem. et Phys. , " vol. xxxviii , 1828 , p. 239 ; " Pogg .
Ann. , " vol. xiv , 1828 , p. 169 ; Fechner , " Pogg .
Ann. , " rol .
xlviii , 1839 , pp. 1 to 225 ; Wild , " Pogg .
Ann. , " vol. ciii , 1858 , p. 353 ; Schmidt , " Pogg .
Ann- , " vol. cix , 1860 , p. 106 ; Wiillner , " Pogg .
Ann. , " vol. cvi , 1859 , p. 454 , vol. cix , 1860 , p. 94 .
1881.1 caused by Liquid Diffusion and Osmose .
297 in giass siphons having turned-up capillary ends .
As , in his arrangement , acid and alkaline liquids were in contact with each other , chemical action occurred .
Fechner employed a similar apparatus , and in some of the combinations of liquids employed by him , chemical laction took place from a similar cause .
In Wild s research , each 1 element consisted of an open cup having two long and vertical wide j glass tubes projecting downwards from its lower surface and termi-i nated at their lower ends by electrodes .
Three kinds of liquid , in four portions , of suitable specific gravities , were carefully placed upon each other in a series of distinct layers , without intervening solid diaphragms , the two portions in contact with the electrodes being precisely similar .
Liquids which did not chemically act upon each other were in nearly all cases employed ; but as the electrodes were electro-coppered metallic capsules , and any electric current produced by liquid diffusion has extremely feeble electromotive force , it is probable that chemical action interfered .
L. Schmidt ( of Halle ) employed a perfectly similar apparatus and arrangement of liquids .
In Wiillner 's arrangement , the liquids were in a wide cylinder formed of several horizontal segments , the liquids being in distinct layers , separated by disks of animal membrane , and the electrodes were circular sheets of brass or copper.^ In each and all of these apparatuses and arrangements , three distinct liquids were employed , and the phenomena were not reduced to their simplest form by the use of two liquids only .
In my earliest experiments , I employed several different arrangements of apparatus , in which a very limited number of layers of liquid of different degrees of concentration were separated from each other by horizontal diaphragms of parchment paper , the terminal layers having small platinum wire electrodes connected with a Thomson 's reflecting galvanometer .
No signs of an electric current were however obtained .
As electromotive force may be of all degrees of strength , from that which only causes two liquids to feebly mix to that by which the most fixed compounds are decomposed ; and as the energy of mechanical diffusion and osmose is extremely feeble in comparison with that of chemical union , I concluded that any electric current arising from those causes would probably have very feeble electromotive power , and I therefore made other trials with a larger number of elements .
In order to try more effectually whether a difference of facility of diffusion , caused by the action of gravity upon two portions of solution of different degrees of concentration and of specific gravity , would produce an electric current , I made the following experiments :\#151 ; Experiment 1.\#151 ; I took a series of twenty-five small glass tumblers , as * See also Kamtz , " Schweigg .
Jnl .
, " 1829 , vol. lv , p. 1 ; Lagarve , " Gl-ilb .
Ann. .
" vol. xiv , 1803 , p. 230 ; KoMrausch , " Pogg .
Ann. , " vol. lxxix , 1850 , p. 200 ; Worm Miiller , " Pogg .
Ami .
, " vol. cxl .
z 2 298 Dr. G. Gore .
Electric Currents [ Jan. fi Fio .
l. town in fig. 1 , each alternate one containing a liquid of a different degree of concentration .
Two liquids were employed , viz. , one composed of a half saturated solution of potassic nitrate , and the other one volume of a saturated solution of the same salt , mixed with 320 volumes of water .
Each alternate vessel contained respectively 3 ounces by measure of the weaker , and 2^ oz. of the stronger solution .
The two terminal vessels contained the stronger liquid , * and were provided with small platinum wire electrodes inserted through holes near the bottoms of the vessels .
The liquids in the vessels were connected in single series by means of inverted bent tubes of glass , of half-an-inch diameter , the alternate tubes being filled with the respective solutions .
The end of each of the tubes at which the two liquids came into contact , was previously covered with a wet septum of parchment paper tightly secured by means of string .
On connecting the series with the galvanometer , a feeble electric current was obtained , which by interchanging the two terminal vessels was proved not to arise from any differences of the electrodes .
' The direction of the current was downwards through the septums and surfaces of contact of the two liquids .
As according to statements in text books on physics a solution of potassic nitrate is one in which diffusion is not increased and which is not decomposed by a diaphragm , I conclude from the above results that the electric current obtained was probably due to greater rapidity of diffusion at the alternate septums where the heavier liquid was above than at the others .
Experiment 2.\#151 ; In order to ascertain whether an electric current would be similarly produced by a different kind of liquid , I took a series of thirty-five such elements .
The liquids consisted of a strong aqueous solution of cupric sulphate freely acidulated with sulphuric acid , and a mixture of 1^ drachm of the same solution with 65 oz. of water .
A somewhat stronger electric current , similar in direction , was obtained , and probably arose from a similar cause to that in the previous experiment .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; In order to determine whether an alternation of osmose and diffusion of the two liquids obtained by the presence of a 11881 .
] caused by Liquid Diffusion and Osmose .
diaphragm and no diaphragm would also give rise to an electric current , I charged the whole of the thirty-five glass cups with the acidulated strong solution of cupric sulphate employed in the last Experiment , and filled all the connecting tubes with the weaker solution used in that experiment , taking care to alternate the ends of the tubes which were open with those which were closed by a septum , as fin the annexed sketch ( fig. 2 ) .
I also employed as electrodes , moveable platinum wire of much larger surface , cut from contiguous portions of the same piece of wire and insulated at their upper parts from the liquid by means of glass tubing .
By this arrangement a much stronger electric current was produced than in the previous experiments ; but in a reverse direction , viz. , from the strong solution upwards through the diaphragm into the weak one , and from the weak one down through the meniscus into the strong one .
Experiment 4.\#151 ; A similar experiment to No. 3 was now made with a nearly saturated solution of potassic nitrate and a mixture of half a drachm of that solution with 34 oz. of water .
The current was the same in direction as in the last experiment , but more feeble ; and was strongest at the first contact .
Experiments 5 and 6.\#151 ; These experiments were similar to No. 4 , except that ( with the hope of obtaining a stronger effect ) the whole of the bent tubes were filled with the solution previous to placing their ends in the vessels ; * the strengths of the solution of saltpetre were also somewhat different .
The currents obtained were the same in direction and magnitude as in Experiment No. 4 .
Remarks.\#151 ; In all these four last experiments , the electric currents produced by the difference of osmose caused by a porous partition , were upwards through the diaphragms and opposite in direction to those produced in Experiments Nos. 1 and 2 by difference of diffusion .
I have since obtained very much stronger currents , sufficient to readily send the image off the scale , by means of even a single diffusio-electric element .
* Henceforth the whole of the tubes were always filled previous to immersion .

