1903 .
] The Differential Invariants of a Surf ace , etc. 331 is 410 c.c. If the necessary corrections and estimations be made from this gross cubic capacity , the weight of the brain in the Archaeoceti must have been considerably less than 400 grammes , and perhaps nearer 300 , as against that of the recent Cetacea , which ranges from 455 grammes in Kogia ( Haswell ) to 4,700 grammes in Bakenoptera ( Guldberg ) .
" The Differential Invariants of a Surface , and their Geometric Significance .
" By Professor A. B. Forsyth , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received February 14 , \#151 ; Read March 5 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The present memoir is devoted to the consideration of the differential invariants of a surface ; and these are defined as the functions of the fundamental magnitudes of the surface and of quantities connected with curves upon the surface which remain unchanged in value through all changes of the variables of position on it .
They belong to the general class of Lie 's differential invariants ; and some sections of them were obtained about ten years ago by Professor Zorawski , who , for this purpose , developed a method originally outlined by Lie .
Earlier , they had formed the subject of investigations by a number of geometers , among whom Beltrami and Darboux should be mentioned .
Professor Zorawski 's method is used in this memoir .
In applying it , a considerable simplification proves to be possible ; for it appears that , at a certain stage in the solution of the partial differential equations characteristic of the invariance , the equations which then remain .unsolved can be transformed so that they become the partial differential equations of the system of concomitants of a set of simultaneous binary forms .
The known results of the latter theory can then be used to complete the solution .
The memoir consists of two parts .
In the first part , the algebraic expressions of the invariants up to a certain order are explicitly .obtained ; in the second , their geometric significance is investigated .
An invariant , which involves the fundamental quantities of a surface E , F , G , L , M , N ( these determine the surface save as to position and orientation in space ) and their ' derivatives up to order n , as well as the derivatives of functions \lt ; \#163 ; , 4 , 'f position on the surface up to order n+ 1 , may itself be said to be of order n. The invariants up to the second order inclusive are obtained .
It appears that , if two functions \lt ; /\gt ; and ip occur , all the invariants that occur up to the second order can be expressed algebraically in terms of VOL. LXXI .
2 B 332 Mr. W. C. D. Whetham .
Electric Conductivity of [ Feb. 14r 29 algebraically independent invariants ; while , if only a single function \lt ; $\gt ; occurs , all the invariants that occur up to the second order can be expressed in terms of 20 algebraically independent invariants .
The significance of these respective aggregates of 29 and of 20 invariants is obtained in connection with curves = 0 , t = 0 , drawn upon the surface .
The investigation reveals new relations among the intrinsic geometric properties of a curve upon a surface .
In particular , up to the second order , four such relations exist for a single curve ; and their explicit expressions have been , constructed .
" The Electrical Conductivity of Solutions at the Freezing-point of Water .
" By W. C. I ) .
Whetham , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received February 14 , \#151 ; Read March 5 , .
1903 .
The following paper contains an account of experiments which bring to greater concentrations the series of measurements on the conductivities of dilute solutions at the freezing point , communicated to the Royal Society in February , 1900.* The work has been carried on at intervals during the last two years , and was made possible by the kindness of Professor Ewing , who placed a room at the Cambridge Engineering Laboratory at the disposal of the writer and his wife .
The earlier experiments were originally planned in connection with the observations undertaken by Dr. E. H. Griffiths on the freezing points of corresponding solutions ; they were therefore conducted in a platinum cell of design similar to that used by Griffiths , with the object of eliminating any solvent action of glass .
Any such action would be quite inappreciable at the concentrations used in the experiments now to be described ; resistance cells of glass were consequently used , and the labour of observation was much reduced .
The structure of the cells is shown in figs. 1 and 2 ; that illustrated in fig. 1 was made of Jena glass , and reserved for the more dilute solutions .
Each cell is so arranged that by applying a slight exhaustion , the whole of the contents can be drawn up into a bulb ; by this means , when water or stock solution is added , complete mixture can be easily secured .
The method of preparing the solutions was usually the same as that formerly employed ; the pure solvent was placed in the cell , and its weight and resistance determined ; weighed quantities * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 191 ( 190 ) ) , p. 321 .

