On the Variable Stars of the 8 Class .
101 would readily burn in the air , and , while exhibiting the silicon bands it would also display the lines of hydrogen , particularly the C , F , and H lines , the red C being the most conspicuous .
Further observations on this spectrum are desirable , and the hydrogen lines should be particularly looked for ; but on the whole I am inclined to believe that Mr Lundstrom 's deduction as to the origin of the " blue flame being caused by silicon is substantially correct , if it be understood that the silicon is in combination with hydrogen .
Many of the lines and bands in the Ulfshytte spectrum , which have not been identified , have been observed in the Crewe spectra ; but their origin still remaius a mystery .
" On the Variable Stars of the 8 Cephei Class .
" By J. Norman Looker , C.B. , F.R.S. Received November 9 , \#151 ; Read November 21 , 1895 .
Introductory .
Professor E. C. Pickering , in his classification of the variable stars , which is based on a study of the light curves , * recognises two classes of variables having short periods .
His Class IV includes those variables , exemplified by 8 Cepbei and / 3 Lyrse , in which the light changes are not of very great range , and continue throughout the period .
Class V comprises those like Algol in which there is a\gt ; temporary reduction of light at .
minimum , produced by the eclipse of the bright star by a relatively dark companion ; this explanation has since been established by spectroscopic investigations , which have shown that there is no change in the spectrum at minimum , and that there is an orbital movement of corresponding period .
Both these classes are sharply distinguished from the variables of the IVlira type , which form Pickering 's Class II .
In this class of variables , as in Class IV , the light changes go on throughout , the period , but the range of variation is generally much greater , and the periods are reckoned by months instead of days .
The variability is associated in this case with a fluted spectrum ( Group II ) , and in a former communication I have shown that the phenomena can be explained on the supposition that there is one swarm ( or more ) of meteorites revolving in an elliptic orbit round a central swarm , an increase of light at maximum occurring at periastron when the number of collisions is greatest.f It is probable that the variables of Class IV will require further subdivision , when their spectra have been more fully investigated .
* ' Amer .
Acad. Proc. , ' vol. 16 , p. 17 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 154 , 1887 .
102 Mr. J. Norman Lockyer .
Tims , although , in regard to the general character of the light changes , / 3 Lyrse must be included in this class , it stands apart from the other members which have so far been spectroscopically observed in having a spectrum which includes a number of bright lines ; a detailed study of the spectrum has also shown* that the lines are periodically doubled , and that part of the variability is due to eclipsing , although the minima are not sharply marked like those of Algol .
Again , in the great majority of the variables of Class IV there is , as a rule , a rapid rise to maximum , followed by a slower descent to minimum , as in the variables of Class II .
Excluding / 3 Lyrse , which , as I shall show , is spectroscopically very different from the other 's so far examined , it will be convenient to refer to the remaining variables of Pickering 's Class IV as those of the 8 Cephei class , and it is with some of these that the present paper is concerned .
The Kensington Photographs .
On attempting to continue the investigations of variability to which reference has been made , I found that the available spectroscopic data with regard to the 8 Cephei class were very meagre , and I therefore determined to investigate the spectra photographically , so far as the means at my disposal would permit .
The work was accordingly commenced at Kensington in the early part of 1894 , and as some interesting facts have been already brought to light , I have decided , although the research is not yet completed , to communicate them to the Society , more especially as my instrumental means only permit the study of a small number of the stars .
The instruments employed in the inquiry were those named A and B in a previous communication on the " Photographic Spectra of some of the Brighter Stars ; " f the former consists of a prism of ' , placed in front of a 6-inch photographic object-glass , and the latter of a prism of .45 ' used in conjunction with the same telescope .
The spectra of most of the variables of this class are too faint to be photographed with the great dispersion of B , so that , in some cases , A has of necessity been solely employed .
Brief particulars as to the variability of the five stars , the spectra of which have been already photographed , and a statement of the number of photographs taken in each case , are given below .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 56 , p. 280 , 1894 .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1893 , rol .
184 , A , p. 678 .
On the Variable Stars of the 5 Cephei Class .
Name .
Magnitude .
Period .
Internal from minimum to maximum .
Photographed with Photographed with Max. Min .
instrument A. instrument B. rj A^quilae 3-5 4-7 d. h. 7 4 d. h. 2 9 5 i Greminorum.\#171 ; 3-7 4-5 10 3 5 0 . .
5 S Cephei 3-7 49 5 9 1 15 3 4 T Vulpecuhe . .
5-5 6'5 4 10 1 7 2 S Sagittae _ 5-6 6*4 8 9 3 10 1 The spectra generally extend from near F to K. Results of the Preliminary Discussion .
A careful examination of the negatives has been made by Messrs. Fowler and Shackleton , and five very definite results have been arrived at :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The spectra of the five variables of this class which have been photographed are practically identical .
All the spectra are seen to belong to Group III/ 3 of my classification of the heavenly bodies.* It seems , therefore , that as our knowledge of the spectra of variable stars advances , the association of a particular kind of spectrum with a particular kind of variability becomes more and more evident .
This is only what we should expect , since I have adduced evidence to show that the possibility of each particular kind of variability must depend upon the state of condensation of the bodies involved .
( 2 .
) The five variables in question are stars of increasing temperature .
The spectra are seen to very closely resemble the spectrum of 7 Cygni , and I have already stated the evidence which shows that this star , unlike the sun , is increasing in temperature.f We have thus revealed to us the fact that these variables , like the other class which I have previously discussed , J occupy places on the ascending arm of the temperature curve .
A portion of the spectrum of S Cephei , at the time of maximum , is shown on p. 105 , where it is compai'ed with the spectra of 7 Cygni and Arcturus .
These have been enlarged about ten times from the original negatives taken at Kensington .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1893 , vol. 184 , A , p. 725 .
t ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1893 , vol. 184 , A , p. 718 .
x 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 46 , p. 401 , 1889 .
Mr. J. Norman Lockyer .
Taking Arcturus as a representative star of tke solar type , * it will be seen that although the spectra of 7 Cygni and Cephei resemble it in showing a large number of dark lines , they differ considerably from it in point of detail .
I shall return to the subject of these differences in a future paper .
On the meteoritic hypothesis , then , the variables of this class are to be regarded as meteor-swarms not yet completely condensed , and this fact may prove of great importance in connexion with explanations of the variability .
( 3 .
) There is a general weakening of the continuous spectrum as the light of the star decreases .
This is shown by the fact that longer exposures are required to photograph the spectra when the variables are near the minima .
With equal exposures , the negatives taken near minima are very much less dense than those taken at maximum , and even with the longest practicable exposures , when the highest dispersion is employed , the photographs obtained nearer minimum are relatively feeble .
This has been especially noted in the case of 8 Cephei , one photograph of which was taken exactly at maximum and another only a short time after minimum .
( 4 .
) There are no indications of bright-line radiation at the positions occupied , by the lines of hydrogen or helium at any part of the period in the case of these variables .
The lines of hydrogen are dark in all cases , and no changes of intensity such as might be brought about by an increased radiation at any time have been found in the photographs .
A special search has also been made for bright lines in the positions of the lines of helium and the associated gases , but none have been traced .
Since all of these lines occur in the spectra of such stars as Bellatrix , this part of the inquiry was easy\#151 ; it was only necessary to make direct comparison of the negatives .
( 5 .
) There is no visible doubling of the lines in any of the photographs .
Unlike ft Lyra ?
, the variables now under consideration show no doubling of any of the lines at any part of the period , so far as the Kensington photographs give any information on the point .
The photograph of 8 Cephei ( see fig. ) , taken exactly at maximum , shows that there is no doubling at the time when such appearances might be expected to be most marked .
Hence , the conditions appear to be entirely different from those which exist in the case of ft Lyr\#174 ; , and on the meteoritic hypothesis the stars are less condensed .
* ' Phil. Trans. .
' 1893 , vol. 184 , A , p. 699 .
1.\amp ; CEPHEI 2 .
YCYCNI 3 .
ARCTURUS 106 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30r Since the greater part of the foregoing was written , the results of a photographic study of the spectrum of h Cephei , with special reference to its movement in the line of sight , have been published by Belopolsky.* Belopolsky differs from me in classing the star as a solar one , although he draws attention to numerous differences between the spectrum of the star and that of the sun .
He also finds , as I have found , that there is probably no change of spectrum corresponding to the light changes , except a general change of intensity .
The photographs discussed in the present paper were taken by Messrs. Baxandall , Shackleton , Butler , and Wardale , between February and June , 1894 .
November 30 , 1895 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Report of the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts , on the part of the Society , was presented as follows :\#151 ; " The total receipts on the General Account during the past year , including balances carried from the preceding ' year , amount to \#163 ; 9,356 19s .
6d .
, and the total receipts on account of Trust Funds , , including balances from the preceding year , and the proceeds of the sale of stock , amounted to \#163 ; 5,526 10s .
The total expenditure for the same period , including investments , amounted to \#163 ; 8,404 9s .
6d .
on the General Account , and \#163 ; 3,373 17s .
5 on account of Trust Funds , leaving a balance on the General Account of \#163 ; 904 6s .
10d .
at the bankers ( which includes \#163 ; 100 Catalogue Account and \#163 ; 259 Water Research Account ) , and in the hands of the Treasurer a balance of \#163 ; 48 3s .
2d .
; leaving also at the bankers a balance on account of Trust Funds of \#163 ; 2,147 10s .
0d " The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
The Secretary then read the following Lists : l * 'Imp .
Acad. Sc. , St. Petersburg , Bull .
, ' Nor .
, 1894 .

