1 1883 .
] On the Circumpolar Expedition to Fort Rae .
173 Table IV gives the complete results of the mechanical , chemical , j in(j physical tests upon a series of wires furnished by Messrs. Fre-nS lerick Smith and Co. , of Halifax .
The tensile strength and electric conductivity are those furnished 11 me by Messrs. Smith and Co. The chemical analyses by Mr. Henry M :g4 Bell , of Sheffield , the magnetic capacity of the bright hard drawn , annealed , and tempered wires , were determined by myself by the aid .
iof the magnetic balance .
In the above Table IV there is a complete relation between electric : conductivity and magnetic capacity , both progressing in a similar ratio and agreeing in a most remarkable manner .
We see here that the electric conductivity and magnetic capacity have a complete relation to each other , but while in every wire .
measured I have found this true , it is only so when the wire has been completely annealed and free from mechanical strain , and a feeble ; i magnetic force employed , thus the relation exists only in the limited sphere of elastic rotation already mentioned .
I believe the relation here shown between electric conductivity and s : magnetic capacity to be of theoretical importance and of practical utility , as we at once find not only the electric conductivity of iron and steel from a simple reading of their magnetic capacity , but also the iron most suitable for the cores of electro-magnets .
II .
" Report on the Circumpolar Expedition to Fort Rae .
" By Captain H. P. Dawson , R.A. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received December 12 , 1883 .
On the 14th April , 1882 , I was informed that I was appointed to the command of the Circumpolar Expedition .
I at once proceeded to London , and was occupied until the day of sailing in practice with the magnetic instruments at the Kew Observatory , and the purchase of stores , \amp ; c. , for the expedition .
On the 1st May , Sergeant F. W. Cooksley , Royal Horse Artillery , and Gunner C. S. Wedenby , Royal Artillery , and on the 6th May Sergeant Instructor of Gunnery J. English , R.H.A. , reported themselves to me , and commenced attendance at Kew for instruction .
Journey to Fort Rae .
We sailed from Liverpool on the 11th May , and arrived at Quebec on the 23rd .
Here I spent some days finding that the steamer for the north did not leave Winnipeg till the 10th June , and my party was 174 Capt. H. P. Dawson .
[ Dec. 20 ' j \#166 ; very kindly afforded quarters in the citadel by Lieutenant-Colone \gt ; 1 Cotton , commanding the Canadian Artillery at that place .
Having obtained a free pass for our baggage on the Grand TrunI ' Railway , I started at once for Winnipeg , proceeding by the lakes that being the cheaper route , and the one which on the whole exposed i the instruments to the least knocking about .
We reached Winnipeg on the 9th June , and left on the following i day by the Saskatchewan steamer .
On the 26th June we reached 'Carlton , where it was necessary to engage carts to take our baggage ; i to G-reen Lake , a distance of 140 miles .
On the 29th the carts were taken across the river , and on the 30th we started for Green Lake , which we reached on the 9th July , r having been delayed by the extreme badness of the road .
The heat of the weather rendered a long halt necessary in the middle ofi the day , and the flies also prevented our animals from feeding pro- j perly , incapacitating them for long marches or fast work , and on j one occasion forcing us to halt for a whole day , the oxen being so I worried by them as to be unable to march .
At Green Lake we entered upon the system of water communication that forms the only roadway in the north , and by way of Portage la Loche and the Clearwater and Athabasca rivers we reached Fort Chipewyan on the 30th July .
Here we had to await the Mackenzie River boats , there being no other means of reaching Fort Rae , and it was not until the 17th August that we were able to start on this last stage of our journey .
We reached Great Slave Lake on the 22nd , on the evening of which day a gale arose which stove in and sunk our boat , damaging most of our provisions .
Fortunately we were able to repair the boat , but it was .
not until the 25th that the weather allowed us to proceed , and on the 27th we were again detained by a fresh storm , so that it was not until 10 p.m. on the 30th August , that we arrived at Fort Rae .
Fort Fae .
Fort Rae is situated in lat. 62 ' 38 ' 52 " N. , and long .
115 ' 43 ' 50 " W. , at the south-west extremity of a peninsula that juts out from the north-east shore of a long gulf extending in a north-westerly direction more than 100 miles from the northern shore of the Great Slave Lake .
It is almost entirely surrounded by water , as shown in the annexed plan.* The formation is limestone .
The land rises to a height of some 200 feet , and is covered in part with moss , in part with pines and scanty brushwood .
A few vegetables are grown in the summer in * [ It has not been thought necessary to publish the plans accompanying this \#166 ; Report , as they would seem to find a more fitting place in the detailed account of the observations.\#151 ; Gh GK S. , Sec. R.S.J 1883.1 On the Circumpolar Expedition to Fort 175 the garden attached to the Roman Catholic Mission , but for food the inhabitants chiefly depend upon the produce of the nets , and on deer , which are brought in by the Indian hunters attached to the post .
, On arrival it was found that the magnetic instruments required a i good deal of setting to rights , their boxes being tilled with water and the fittings loosened , so that not a single instrument was quite in working order .
There was , moreover , no building ready for their reception , so that it was not possible to keep the 31st August\#151 ; 1st September as a term day , but we succeeded in getting the meteorological instruments into position so as to commence observations with them at midnight on the 31st .
We were fortunate in finding a building that admitted of conversion into a magnetic observatory , it only requiring a floor , fireplace , door and windows to be habitable .
This work was at once commenced , and on the 3rd September the declinometer , on the 4th the bifilar , and on the 6th the vertical force magnetometer were mounted in their places .
This observatory was finished on the 10th September , and another one commenced for astronomical and absolute magnetic observations , the continual wind rendering out-door observations unsatisfactory .
The men of my party were accommodated in the house of one of the sub-officers of the fort , and I had a room in the house of the Hudson 's Bay Company 's officer in charge .
The instruments , on the whole , suffered but little from the journey .
One barometer and one thermometer were broken , and the object glasses of the telescopes of most of the magnetic instruments were nearly opaque , the cement joining the two lenses having from some cause or other melted on the journey .
Our provisions were more damaged , 190 lbs. sugar , 30 lbs. of tea , all our rice , and most of our baking powder having been destroyed .
The observations were then carried on without interruption until the 31st August , 1883 .
Magnetic Obs. The balance magnetometer was the only magnetic instrument whose performance was not satisfactory , as not only did it frequently get out of adjustment , but in times of magnetic disturbance it often vibrated through so large an arc that exact reading was impossible .
The other instruments were remarkably free from vibration , and there was never any difficulty in reading them , but it was found necessary to extend the scale of the bifilar on the side of decreasing force , owing to the great movements of this instrument .
The greatest magnetic disturbance was on the 17th , 18th , and 19th November , 1882 , when all the instruments moved at times beyond the 176 Capt , H. P. Dawson .
[ Dec. 20 la limits of their scales .
On the first of these days the difference fjj between the extreme easterly and westerly positions of the declino- a meter magnet exceeded 10 ' .
Aurora .
Aurora was observed on almost every clear night , and was usually jl attended by more or less magnetic disturbance .
It did not appear to me , however , that the two phenomena stood in the relation of cause s and effect , but rather that they were both due to a common cause .
; \gt ; i The most marked instance of connexion between the two phenomena consisted in a rapid decrease in both vertical and horizontal magnetic |i forces which attended a sudden outburst of aurora in the zenith .
This I !
was observed on several occasions , The bifilar almost always showed 1\gt ; a reduction of horizontal force during a display of aurora .
I also J think that the declinometer piagnet tended to point towards the 1 brightest part of the aurora , but I have not yet had time to make j that careful comparison of the auroral and magnetic observations which will be required to decide this point .
It was found impossible \ to obtain photographs either of the aurora or of its spectrum\#151 ; the I latter invariably presented the characteristic yellowish-green line , and occasionally but rarely several other bright lines were visible for a few moments towards the violet end of the spectrum , and once a bright band was seen in the red .
I was also unsuccessful in my attempts to measure the height of the aurora , chiefly from the want of a well-defined point to measure to , also from the fact that some hours were required to prepare for this observation , whereas the appearance of a suitable aurora could not be predicted , and was , in fact , not of frequent occurrence , and then often only lasting a few seconds .
For this observation two stations some miles apart should be connected by telegraph and occupied for many days , or even weeks in succession .
Although I paid attention to the point , I never heard any sound from the aurora , save on the occasion mentioned in a former memorandum , but I made many inquiries on the subject from residents in the country , both English and French , and their statements agree so well , both with one another and with what I myself heard , that I am forced to conclude that the aurora is at times audible , and that on these occasions it appears to be , and probably is , very near the earth .
Meteorological Observations .
With regard to the meteorological observations , the station was somewhat unfavourably placed for observations of wind , on account of the hill to the north-east , but as winds from this quarter were rare the effect on the results will not be great , especially as one of the 1883 .
] On the Circumpolar Expedition to Fort Rae .
177 anemometers was on an island in the lake , in an entirely open situation .
The anemometers did not work quite satisfactorily , being at times choked by ice ; but I hope by the comparison of the two satisfactory results may be attained .
The wind was usually either South-east or North-west ; and even when it blew from the former quarter , the motion of the upper clouds often showed the existence of a North-westerly current .
The hair hygrometers were found to be useless out of doors in cold weather , on account of the formation of ice on the hair .
The earth thermometers were read every alternate day : the observations were interrupted by a carcajou , or other animal , which extracted the thermometers from their tube for the sake of the fur in which it had been found necessary to envelope them , and broke them all ; other thermometers were , however , substituted , and the observations continued .
It was found impossible to obtain the temperature of the soil at a greater depth than four feet on account of the rocky nature of the ground .
A series Of observations of terrestrial radiation was made by means of a thermometer placed on the surface of the snow , but the almost continual wind detracts much from the value of these readings .
I was told by the residents of the country that the year was an unusually dry one , and certainly the rainfall is remarkably small ; they also said that the winter was particularly mild and free from storms , which , from all accounts , and from the journals kept at the fort , seem to be both frequent and severe ; as it was , we only experienced one , in February .
A plan is annexed , showing the position of the meteorological instruments , and their relative heights .
Astronomical .
My first determination of the longitude was made by means of lunar distances , and time was found by the method of equal altitudes , but after the observatory was finished both these points were determined by transits , and the first value of the longitude found to be more than a minute in error .
The latitude was determined by transit observations in the prime vertical , and is probably within a few seconds of the truth .
The longitude may be ten seconds in error .
The time was generally correct to within three or four seconds .
A more solidly constructed transit instrument would have been desirable , as it was found that in the cold weather it required so much force to move the telescope of the transit theodolite on its axis , that there was great risk of disturbing the adjustments of this instrument , composed as it is of so many parts .
Capt. H. P. Dawson .
[ Dec. 20 , Food , Our supply of provisions proved quite sufficient .
I had brought enough flour to admit of my issuing the usual ration of ^ lb. per diem , and tobacco 1 lb. per month to each man .
We also had a supply of Chollet 's preserved vegetables , and a reserve stock of bacon , j besides tea and sugar .
Of the latter we were somewhat short , owing to the loss sustained on the journey up .
We usually had fresh meat throughout the winter ; in the summer we were occasionally reduced to dried meat .
During the journey there and back we chiefly lived on pemmican .
The Rev. Pere Roure , of the Roman Catholic Mission , most kindly furnished us with fresh vegetables and potatoes throughout the summer .
The conduct of the men under my command was everything that could be desired .
They took great interest in the observations , and did their best to carry them out with accuracy and punctuality , and were always contented and cheerful , in spite of the inevitable discomforts of their winter quarters and the occasional hardships of the journey .
Return Journey .
We were running great risk of being overtaken by the winter , and therefore lost no time in our departure .
The last hourly observation was made at midnight on the1 31st August , 1883 , after which the instrumeuts were dismounted and packed , their cases having been previously arranged in readiness outside the observatory .
The remainder of the baggage was already in the boat , so that by 2.30 a.m. on the 1st September we were en route , and reached Fort Chipewyan on the 17th September , and Portage la Loche on the 4th October , having experienced some delay in surmounting the rapids of the Clearwater , the hard frosts having frozen all the small tributary streams , thus considerably lowering the water in the river .
The boat awaiting us on the south side of the portage was frozen in , but fortunately the wind changed and the ice broke up before our arrival .
Had it been otherwise we must have waited until the rivers were thoroughly frozen , and travelling with dog trains possible .
In that case we should have been compelled to abandon our instruments and baggage .
On the 21st we reached Carlton on the Saskatchewan , where we were detained a day , the man engaged to transport our baggage across the prairie having refused to proceed .
Another man was engaged , and on the 31st October we reached the railway a\gt ; t Qu'Appelle , arriving at Winnipeg the following day .
We were fortunate in crossing the prairie with so little difficulty , as at the same time last year it was covered with three feet of snow .
1883 .
] On the Circumpolar Expedition to Fort .
179 At Winnipeg I remained a couple of days to adjust accounts with he Hudson 's Bay Company , and on the 4th November we started for Quebec , going by rail via Chicago .
We reached Quebec on the 8tb , md Liverpool on the 20th November .
In conclusion , I have to acknowledge the assistance received from ihe officers of the Hudson 's Bay Company , who spared no trouble in parrying out my wishes , especially Chief Commissioner Grahame at Winnipeg , Chief Factors MacFarlane and Camsell , in charge of the Athabasca and Mackenzie B-iver Districts respectively , and Mr. King in charge at Fort Rae .
To their hearty co-operation the success of the expedition is in great part due .
Results of Expedition .
The following is a list of the observations taken at Fort Rae , the result of our year 's work there , which I have now the honour to lay before the Royal Society:\#151 ; Magnetic , Sourly\#151 ; Declination from , 3rd September , 1882 , to 31st August , 1883 .
Hor. Force " 4th " " , , " Vert. Force " 6th , , " " " Term Day\#151 ; In accordance with programme laid down by St. Petersburg Conference , from 15th September , 1882 , to 15th August , 1883 .
Occasional\#151 ; Absolute observations of Hor. Force Dip and Declination .
Meteorological .
Sourly\#151 ; Barometer .
From 1st Sept. , 1882 , to 31st Oct. , 1883 .
Dry and wet bulb thermometers , , , , " Anemometer " " " Wind , clouds , and weather " , , " Aurora ( when visible ) , , , , " Hair Hygrometer ( when in working order ) .
Terrestrial Radn .
( occasionally in clear weather ) .
Daily\#151 ; Max. and Min .
Solar and Terrest .
Radn .
Thermos , Rain gauge .
Earth Thermometers every two days .

