]\gt ; On the Shapes of the under Ranges in Districts .
By CHAILES H. LEES , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Physics in the East London College , Uniyersity of January Read Febrnary The importance attached by ists to the distribution of temperature within the earth 's crust as a factor in the production of movements of the crust , and in particular in the formation of mountain has made it necessary to considel if it is possible to determine distribution of temperature under and in the neighbourhood of a mountain , by a method more rigid and accurate than that used Fisher , and more closely following the physical condition of the problem than that used by Thoma .
In what follows it will be shown that an accurate solution can be obtained in certain simple cases , even when the soil is radio-active .
The problem as presented in nature is too complicated to admit of mathe- matical treatment , and to render it more eable the simplifications are introduced : .
The curvature of the surface of the earth is neglected .
2 .
The mountain is assumed to be of uniform height and shape , and to have a great in comparison with its and width .
3 .
The section of the is taken to be one of a few simple and typical forms .
4 .
The material of the range and that of the earth 's crust in the neighbourhood are taken to have the same radio-actiyity and the same conductivity for heat .
S 5 .
The isothermal surfaces eotherms ) where there are no mountains are assumed to be planes parallel to the surface of the earth .
Taking the axis of horizontal and at oles to the axis of the mountain range , and the axis of vertically downwards from the surface of the plain at the foot of the , we have the equations which must be satisfied by the tenlperature at the point the crust , ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) * See , e.g. , Prof. ] 's ' Iiadio activity and ' chap .
6 , p. 101 .
Fisher , ' Physich of the Earth 's Crust , ' p. 222 , 2nd Thoma , ' Dissertation , ' Freiburg , inter , ' vol. 31 , p. 850 , 1907 .
Sandstone , slate , limestone , ) and granite all conductivities about ) .
Basalt has a , syenite and lower conductivities .
active processes ; is measured inward along the normal to the is the temperature of the air in contact with the surface at the and is the external conductivity or emissivity of the surface .
The complete integral of equation ( 1 ) consists of the complementary function , i.e. the solution of and a particular integral of the original equation , which in this case is : obviously The variation of the temperature of the free air with altitude may be taken as uniform throughout the , lower portion of the atmosphere , and of the order C. per 100 metres of ascent , and it may be shown that for surfaces of which the angle of slope is not great the temperature of the surface will vary in the same simple way .
Actual observations of temperature on mountain slopes confirm this deduction , and show that there is a decrease of temperature of between and C. per 100 metres of ascent .
* For the present purpose it will therefore be sufficient to substitute for equation ( 2 ) the following , at the rface of the mountain , where is a constant .
For a given contour of section of the mountain range , the above equations provide sufficient data for the solution of the problem , but there are still difficulties of a mathematical nature in obtaining the solution .
Ihese difficulties are obviated if , instead of determining the temperature for a given shape of section , we write down the expressions for the temperature which : ( a ) satisfy equation ( 1 ) , ( b ) are synlmeCrical about the axis of have maximum values at , ( d ) become zero at infinity , ( e ) have singularities within the region considel.ed , and determine the shape of section for which these expressions or any combination of them form the accurate solution .
The expressions which satisfy these conditions are where is an integer , and constants .
To these must be added the further solution , where is a constant , and the particular integral .
Hann , 'Handbuch der Meteorologie , ' pp. 101\mdash ; 104 .
1910 .
] Isogeotherms under Mountain Ranges , etc. Hence the temperature throughout the section is given by , ( 3 ) where is the temperature of the surface of the plain at the foot of the range .
The temperature of the surface of the mountain at different levels is found by integrating equation ( 2 ) , and is iven by the equation .
( 4 ) Since at the surface of the mountain both equations ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) hold , equation to the contour of the range is obtained by from the two equations .
We thus obtain ( 5 ) as the equation to the contour of the section of the range .
By a proper choice of the constants of the types and , any contour symmetrical about the axis of , and not having singular points , may be represented by equation ( 5 ) , then equation gives the distribution of temperature throughout the section .
The determination of these constants for a particular form of contoul is , however , not a very easy problem , and it is doubtful whether it is worth the trouble of lepresenting the contour very accurately when the material of the section deviates so much from the eneous medium assumed in 4 , p. 339 .
A considerable amount of useful information may , ever , be obtained from the theory iven , by taking so simple a form of contour that the series of differentiated terms reduces to a single term .
The term which boives a contour most closely resembling that of a mountain is the one for which , which gives as the equation of the contour\mdash ; ( 5 ) and for the ( 3 ) * For a series of parallel ranges with peaks at , etc. , the equations become and then becomes .
( 6 ) At let , and let be numerically the smallest value of for which this is possible ; that is , let be the of the range .
Then Further , let when lies between and H. Then .
( 7 ) : Hence Let .
( 8 ) The equation becomes which gives , ( 9 ) the yative value of the radical discarded , as it would give a singular point within the contour .
, we have .
( 10 ) Hence the equation to the contour may be written down if we know the height of the range and the half breadth at a height , nearly half that of the range .
If we write for the distance from the summit of the section of the range to the point on the surface whose height above the plain is determined by equation ( 8 ) , then and we get .
( 11 ) ' Hencc , if a long mountain range of uniform height and the plains at its base be composed of material of heat conductivity and of radioactivity snch that gramme-degrees of heat are generated in each cubic centimetre per second , and if be the increase of temperature per centimetre of descent into the material of the plain , and the decrease of tempel.ature per centimetre of vertical ascent up the sides of the range , that if be written for then , and the if the height of a point on the surface of the be determined so 1910 .
] Isogeotherms under , etc. 343 length of the line joining this point to the summit of the section be , the equation to the contour of the section may be written and the equation to the isogeotherms H Subject to the conditions that be not less than and that be not taken greater than being measured downward from the surface of the plain , and measured from the centre of the section of the range .
The temperature within a horizontal tunnel through the at a above the plain is given by the equation H. ( 12 ) The excess of temperature at a point at the centre of the section over that at a point on the surface at the same height is When the point is level with the plain this excess becomes The rate of increase of temperature vertically downwards at the point in a vertical line through the summit is riVen by the equation , ( 14 ) which at the summit itself becomes .
( 14 ) The r , ock constants which enter into these equations will have diffel.ent values in different districts , but it is worth while out in detail ideal case in which they havo values approximately the meall of the found experimentally , in order to realise the relative nitndes of the terms of the final equations .
The mean rate of increase of temperature from a level surface may be taken as 1o C. in lnehes , T which boives * This is ) condition that is the least root of equation .
'Brit .
Assoc. Rep 1882 , p. 88 ; estwich , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. 1 , 1886 ; Joly , ' Radio-activity , etc p. 71 .
ascent , *hence may be taken as degree per centimetre , and as degree per centimetre .
The heat conductiyiGy of rock may be taken as on the average The estimates of the mean radium content of rocks differ considerably from each other .
Strutt , Eve and McIntosh , S and more recently Far and Florance give figures of the order gramme of rock , while gives of the rocks investigated as , we have gramme of radium ramme oadium issociated eements , degreegenerated pecond icubic centimetre oTaki fcsent tstimate , king tensityramme o ?
is equal to , and for ranges of 4 kilometres in height will have the value .
Thus may be determined with sufficient accuracy for not excessively high if equation ( S ) be written , .
From this we see that is per cent. greater than half the height of the range for each kilometre of height of the range , and that the factor in the equations and only differs from 1 by per cent. for each kilometre of height of the range .
a small amount of radio-active matter in the rocks does not seriously modify the shapes of the isogeotherms under ranges of moderate height , and in the following graphical representations of them in a few typical cases it will be neglected .
In , 2 , and 3 the values adopted for the constants are : degree per centimetre , degree per centimetre , temperature of the plain C. , kilometres , , and respectively , which correspond to , and 2 respectively .
According to equation ( 7 ) , is the least value can have .
For that value the slope of the surface of the is at the summit and decreases * Hann , ' Handbuch der Meteorology , ) pp. 101\mdash ; 104 .
Joly , ' Radio-activity , etc p. 74 .
Strutt , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 77 , p. 472 , and , vol. 78 , p. 160 , 1906 .
S Eve and McIntosh , ' Phil. vol. 14 , p. 231 , 1907 .
: and Florance , ' Phil. Mag vol. 18 , p. 812 , 1909 .
: $ Jolv , ' BIit .
Assoc. Rep 1908 , p. 683 .
Quoted by Joly , ' Radio-activity , etc p. 11 .
I have to thank Mr. G. D. West , one of my senior students at the East London College , for drawing these curves from the equations .
1910 .
] Isogeotherms under Ranges , etc. work .
Geikie , ' Text-book of ' vol. 1 , p. 52 , 1903 .
Evelett , ' Brit. Assoc. Rep , p. Fisher , ' } sics of the 's Crust , ' pp. 222\mdash ; 229 , 2nd edit .
, 1889 .
@

