A Solution , Given by Mr. John Collins of a Chorographical Problem , proposed by Richard Townley Esq. who doubtless hath solved the same otherwise .
Problem .
The Distances of three Objects in the same Plain being given , as A , B , C ; The Angles made at a fourth Place in the same Plain as at S , are observed : The Distances from the Place of Observation to the respective Objects , are required .
The Problem hath six Cases .
See Tab. 1 .
IF the Station be taken without the Triangle made by the Objects , but in one of the fides thereof produced , as at S in the first figure : find the Angle AC B ; then in the Triangle ACS all the Angles and the Side AC are known , whence either or both the Distances SA or SC may be found .
Case I. Fig. I. Case 2 .
If the Station be in one of the Sides of the Triangle , as in the Second figure at S , then having the three sides A C , C B , B A , given , find the angle CA B ; then again in the Triangle SAB all the Angles , and the side AB are known , whence may be found either AS or S B , Geometrically , if you make the angle CAD equal to the observed angle CS B , and draw BS parallel to D A , you determine the Point of Station S. Fig 2 .
Case 3 .
If the three Objects lie in a right Line as ACB ( Suppose it done , ) &amp; that a Circle passes through the Station S , and the two exterious Objects A B:then is the Angle ABD equal to the observed angle ASC ( by 21 of the 3d .
book of Euclid , ) as insisting on the same Arch A D : And the Angle BAD in like manner equal to the observed Angle CSB : By this means the point D is determined .
Join D C , and produce the same , then a Circle passing through the Points AB D , intersects D C , droduced at S , the place of Station .
Fig. 3 .
Calculation .
In the Triangle ABD all the Angles and the side AB are known , whence may be found the side A D. Then in the Triangle CA D , the two Sides CA and AD are known , and their contained angle CAD is known ; whence may be found the Angles CDA and AC D , the complement whereof to a Semicircle is the angle SC A : in which Triangle the Angles are now all known and the side A C : whence may be found either of the Distances , SC or S A. Case 4 .
If the Station be without the Triangle , made by the Objects , the sum of the Angles observed is less than four right Angles .
The Construction is the same as in the last Case , and the Calculation likewise ; saving that you must make one Operation more , having the three Sides A C , C B , B B , thereby find the angle CA B , which add to the Angle EAD then you have the two sides , viz. A C , being one of the Distances , and A D , ( found as in the former Case ) with their contained Angle CAD given to find the angles CDA and AC D , the Complement whereof to a Semicircle is the angle SC A : Now in the Triangle SC A , the Angle at C being found , and at S observed , and given by Supposition , the other at A is likewise known , as being the complement of the two former to a Semicircle , and the side AC given ; hence the distances CS or AS may be found .
Case 5 .
If the place of Station be at some Point within the Plain of the Triangle , made by the three Objects , the Construction and Calculation is the same as in the last , saving only that instead of the observed Angle AS C , the Angle ABD is equal to the Complement thereof to a Semicircle , to wit , it is equal to the Angle AS D ; both of them insisting on the same Arch A D : And in like manner the Angle BAD is equal to the Angle DS B , which is the Complement of the observed CS B ; and in this Cafe the sum of the three Angles observed , is equal to four right Angles .
Fig.5 .
In these three latter Cases no use is made of the Angle observed between the two Objects , as A and B , that are made the Base-line of the Construction ; Yet the same is of ready use for finding the third distance or last side sought , as in the fourth Scheme , in the Triangle SA B , there is given the distance A B , its opposite Angle equal to the sum of the two observed Angles , and the Angle SAB attained , as in the fourth Case : Hence the third side or last distance SB may be found .
And here it may be noted , that the three Angles CA S , AS B , SB C , are together equal to the Angle AC B ; for , the two Angles CSB and CBS are equal to EC B , as being the Complement of SCB to two right Angles ; and the like in the Triangle on the other side .
Ergo , &amp;c. Case 6 .
If the three Objects be A , B , C. and the Station at S , as before , it may happen , according to the former Constructions , that the Points C and D may fall close together ; and so a right Line , joining them , shall be produced with uncertainty ; in such case the Circle may be conceived to to pass through the place of Station at S , and any two of the Objects(as in the sixth Scheme)through B and C , wherein making the Angle DBC equal to the observed Angle AS C , and BCD equal to the Complement to 180 degrees of both the observed Angles in DS B ; thereby the point D is determined , through which , and the points C , B , the Circle is to be described , and joining D A , ( produced , when need requires , ) where it intersects the Circle , as at S , is the place of Station sought .
This Problem may be of good Use for the due Scituation Of Sands or Rocks , that are within sight of three Places upon Land , whose distances are well known ; or for Chorographical Uses , &amp;c. Especially now there is a Method of observing Angles nicely accurate by aid of the Telescope ; and was therefore thought sit to be now published , though it be a competent time since it was delivered in in writing .
Tab. 1 .
Trans. No. 69 SS C CS 123 ABABCB A D D SC 4 CSS AEBAB E 56 DDB

