]\gt ; On the Diffnsion of Metals .
Frederick the Gl.eat .
Politische Correspondenz .
Bd .
XXII .
K. Preussische Akademie , Berlin .
McIntosh ( W. F.R.S. The St. Andrews Marine Laboratory under the Fishery Board for Scotland . .
Taris 1895 .
' The Author .
Plucker ( J. ) .
mmelte Wissenschaftliche Abhandlungen .
Bd .
II .
Svo .
1896 .
K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften , Gottingen .
mbaut ( A. A On the of Encke 's Comet as deduced from raphs taken by Mr. W. E. Wilson .
The Author .
Startin ( J. ) .
A Pharmacopoeia for Disea , scs of the Skin .
Bristol 1896 .
The .
Sir LISTER , Bart. , sident , in the Chair .
A List of Presents reccived was laid on the table , and ordered for them .
The was delivcred as follows:\mdash ; LECTURHi the Diffusion of , By .
C. ROBERTS-AUSTLN , , F.R.S. , ofessor of Metallurgy , Colege Scicnce .
eceived Febrllary .
( Abstract .
) of Molten Metal In the first part of the paper the author alludes to some earliel experiments he made in 1883 on the diffusion of gold , silver , and platinum in molten lead .
He points out that the action of osmotic pressure in vering the freezing point of metals has been carefully , very little attention lJas been devoted to the surcmcllt , or cvcn to the consideration , of moleculal movements which cnable or more metals to form a truly homogcneoui { luid mass .
Tho absence of direct experiments on the diffusion of molten is probably by the want of a stlfficiently accurate method .
Ostwald stated , moreover , with } to the diffusion of salts , that " " to make accurate experiments in sion is one of the most difficult problems in practica ] sics , \ldquo ; VOL. The continuation of the research was mainly due to the interest Lord Kelvin had always taken in these experiments .
The want of a ready method for the measurement of comparatively high tures , which led to the abandonmenb of the earlier work , was overcome whem the author arranged his pyrometer , and the use of thermo-junctions in connection with this instrument rendered it possible to measure and record the temperature at which diffusion occurred .
Thermo-junctions were placed in three or more positions in either a bath of fluid metal or an oven carefully kept hotter at the top thau at the bottom .
In the bath or oven , tubes filled with lead were placed , and in this lead , gold , or a rich alloy of gold , or of the metal under examination , was allowed to diffnse upwards against gravity .
The amount of metal diffusing in a given time was ascertained by allowing the lead in the tubes to solidify ; the solid metal was then cut into sections , and the amount of metal in the respective sections determined by analysis .
The movement in linear diffusion is expressed , in accordance with Fick 's law , by the diiferential equation In this equation represents distance in the direction in which 1iifusion takes place , is the degree of concentration of the diffnsing uJetal , and is the time ; is the diffusion constant , that is , the number which expresses the quantity of the metal in grams diifusing through unit area in unit time ( one day ) when unit difference of concentration ( in grams per ) is maintained between the two sides of a Iayer 1 cm .
thick .
The author 's experiments have shown that metals diffuse in one another just as salts do in water , and the results were ultimately calculated by the aid of tables prepared by Stefau for the calculation of Graham 's experiments on diffusion of saIts .
The necessary precautions to be observed and the corrections to be made are described at length , and the values of the diffusivity of various metals in lead are then given .
The values for , the diffusivity , given in sq .
cm .
per , are as follows :\mdash ; 1896 .
] On the Diffusion of Metals .
Gold in lead . . . . . . . .
] at bismuth . . . .
tin . . . . . . . .
, Silver in tin . . . . . . .
Lead in tin . . . . . . . .
Rhodium in lead . . . .
Platinum in lead . . . .
at 49 Gold in lead . . . . . . . .
Gold in mercury . . . .
at In order to afford a term of comparison , iv may be stated that th diffusivity of chloride of sodium in is The.author at p resent----- ains from drawing any conclusion as to Page , in the ' read solids , and the practice in conducting important industrial rations supports this view .
In this connection the author cites two truly venerable " " cementation\ldquo ; .
The object in the first of these is the removal of silver from a solid gold-silver alloy , while the second is employed in steel-making by the carburisation of solid iron .
In both of these processes , however , a gas may intervene , though the carburisation of iron by the diamond , tvhich had been effected in by the author , suggests that if a gas does intervene in the lattel case , its quantity must be very minute .
In connexion with mobility various eloments in the work of Colson , of Osmond , and of Moissan speci ] ] y.eferred to .
authol points out ill Faraday and Stodart showed that )tintlm will ] steel at a temperature at hich e the steel is not molted , and they express their interest in the formation of alloys by cementatiou , that is by the union of solid metals .
The emarkable view expressed by Graham , in , that the " " three conditions of atter ( liquid , solid , and gaseous ) always exist in cvery liquid or solid substance , but that edomi284 On Diffusion of Metats .
[ Feb. nates the other is shown to have ground for the anticipation that metals would diffuse each other at temperatures .
far below heir melting points .
ence is then made to the important work by Spring in 1886 on the lead-tiu alloys , which retained a certain amount of molecular activity afber they had become solid , and special importance is attached to the proof afforded by Spring , that .
may be formed either by the strong compression of the divided constituent at the ordinary temperature ( 1882 ) or ( 1894 ) by the union of solid masses of metal compressed together at temperatures which varied from in the case of Iead and , to in the case of copper an zinc ; tin melting at 22 and zinc evidence as to the volatilisation of solid metals is then traceciand allusion is made to the expression of Bobert Boyle 's that even such solid bodies as glass and gold might respectively " " have their ]ittle atmospheres , and might in time lose their weight .
Merget 's experiment on the evaporation of frozen mercury is quoted in relation to Gay-Lussac 's well-known discovery that the vapours tted by ice and water both at , are of exactly Demarcay 's experiments on the volatilisation of metaIs in vacuo at comparatively low temperatures is connected with the evidence fforded by Spring ( 1894 ) , that the interpenetration of two metals temperature below the melbing point of the more fusible of the is preceded by volatilisation .
The author then points that , interesting as the results of earlier experiments are , as affording evidence of molecular interpenetration , they do not , for the purpose of diffusivity , .
come within the prevailing conditions in the ordinary diffusion of liquids , in which the diffusing substance is usually in the presence of large excess of the solvent , a which has been fully maintained in the experiments on the diffusion of liquid metals described in the first part of the paper .
Hoff has made it highly probble that the osmotic pressure of nces existing in a sohd solulion is analogous to that in liquid solutions , and obeys the same laws : it is probable that the behaviour of .
solid , like that of liquid mixture , would be greatly simplified if the solid soIntior .
very dilute .
The author proceeds to cribe his own experiments on the sion of solid metals .
They are of the same natme as in the case fluid metals , except that the gold , which is the metal chosen for examinatio1l , was placed at the bottom of a solid cylinder of instead of a fluid one .
In ffie first series of experiments , cylinders of Iead , 70 mm. long .
with eibher gold , or a rich alloy of gold and lead at their base , were 1896 .
] Presents .
maintained at a temperature of ( which is below the melting point of lead ) for thirty-one days .
At the end of this period the solid lead was cut into sections , and the amount of gold which had diflnsed into each of them was determined in the usual way .
Other experiments follow , in which the lead was maintained at , and at val.ious lower temperatures down to that of the atory .
The following are the resuIts:\mdash ; Diffnsivity of gold in fluid lead at solid , , .
0.004 , , The experiments at the ordinary temperature are still in progress , but there is evidence that slow diffusion of gold in lead occurs at bhe ordinary temperature .
The author out that if clean surfaces of lead and gold are held together in at a temperature of only for days , they will unite firmly , and can only be separated by the application of a load equal to one-third of the breaking strain of lead itself . .
thinks it will be considered remarkable that gold placed at the bottom of a cylinder of lead , 70 mm. long ( which is to all appearance solid ) , will have diffused to the top in notable quantities at the end of three .
He points out that at 10 the diffusivity of gold in solid lead can readily be measured , though its diffusivity is only 1/ 100,000 of that fluid lead at a temperature of .
He also states that experiments which still progress show that the diffusivity of solid gold in solid silver , or copper , at is of the same order as that of gold in solid lead at He concludes by varmly thanking .
A. Stansfield , B.Sc. , who assisted him in all but the earlier portion of the work , and by exthe hope that the experimonts described in the paper will that the diffusion can readily be measured in solid metals , and that they will carry one step further the work of Graham . .
Transactious .
Brighton :Brighton and Sussex Natural Histoly and Philosophical Society .
Abstracts of Papers together ith Annual Report .
1895 . .
Brighton ; of Books in Library . .
Brighton 1895 .
Society Liege:\mdash ; Societc Geologique de Belgique .
Annals .
Tome XVIII Livr 1 . .
Liege 1891 .
The Society

