\#166 ; 376 .
] On the Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal .
241 / jpearances presented by the parenchymatous cells , the author concludes ; lat they originate external to the vesicles by exerting pressure on the nthelial wall of the vesicles ; they then produce a flattening and *n ssorption of the same , and finally make their way through it into the i i iterior of the vesicle .
f The author in conclusion points to the morphological identity existing t dtween the contents of the lymphatics and those of the vesicles\#151 ; the mtents , namely , of both appear during life to be a viscid substance \gt ; hich , in sections of hardened specimens , present a like morphological spect , and stain in a similar manner with reagents .
This identity , if roven in other respects , will go far to show that one , possibly the hdef , function of the thyroid gland is the formation in the vesicles of a laterial which is carried by the lymphatics into the general circulation .
1 This paper is accompanied by nineteen drawings illustrative of the pmphatics and parenchyma of the glands .
V. " Research on the Minute Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal .
" By Herbert Watney , M.A. , Demonstrator of Microscopical Anatomy at St. George 's Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. Klein , F.R.S. , Assistant Professor in the Brown Institution .
Received December 16 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) This research was commenced and carried on for the first fifteen nonths under the direction of Dr. Klein ; during the last year it was continued independently .
Chapter I. describes the minute anatomy , of the mucous membrane of she small intestine and the method of fat-absorption .
The author commences the Chapter by giving a history of the researches \gt ; f previous observers , and the methods he employed for hardening and staining the tissue .
He then gives a description of the minute structure of the mucosa .
The following are the results obtained .
1 .
The { epithelium.\#151 ; Lymph-corpuscles are constantly found among the epithelial cells of the intestine .
Further it is found that the epithelium contains a reticulum continuous with the reticulum of the mucosa ; this reticulum appears in horizontal sections of the epithelium as small branched cells , which sometimes show a nucleus .
In vertical sections the reticulum is seen as a dark line at the base of the epithelium , and from this dark line fine processes run among the epithelial cells .
The reticulum is stained very deeply by chloride of gold or by hsematoxylin .
In teased preparations , if the epithelial cells are isolated , shreds of the reticulum are seen to be attached to the separate cells .
The epithelial cells are described as being closed at their free extremities .
Mr. H. Watney the Minute [ Jan. 27 Groups of young cells are found .
These groups ( " epithelial buds " ) are due to germination .
2 .
The membrana propria covering the villi is composed of large cells .
In vertical sections the cells are seen to be round or oval , and lie close below the above-mentioned dark line .
When the membrane is separated from the rest of the tissue , it is seen to be composed of these cells arranged as an endothelium .
The membrana has holes or gaps in it ; and in teased preparations the superficial capillaries are always attached to it , as the large cells partially surround the vessels .
Villi which are denuded of their epithelium are bordered by these large cells , and not by the dark line , as the reticulum ( which forms the dark line ) breaks off with the epithelial cells .
In oblique sections of the villi the reticulum is seen to surround the cells forming the membrana .
3 .
The membrana of Lieberkiihn 's crypts , when isolated from the surrounding structures and viewed from above , is found to be a homogeneous membrane with nuclei imbedded in it .
In oblique sections of the membrane in situ it is seen to be composed of cells , and the reticulum is found to surround the cells composing it .
4 .
The muscle-endings in the mucosa.\#151 ; In cross sections of the muscle-fibres of the muscularis mucosae , a reticulum is seen to surround the individual muscle-fibre3 ; this reticulum is continuous with that of the mucosa .
The author next describes the manner in which the muscle-fibres terminate in the rabbit 's colon .
The individual fibres are attached to the large cells forming the membrana propria by means of the reticulum .
This reticulum must therefore be regarded not only as a network of threads , but as forming in places membranous investments .
5 .
The muscle-fibres in the villi have an adventitia formed by the reticulum of the villus ; if the muscle-fibres end near the membrana , the adventitia may be attached to the endothelial cells forming the membrane .
6 .
The blood-vessels are found to have an adventitia formed by the reticulum .
In the veins the reticulum surrounds the endothelial cells and even passes betiveen them .
In the arteries the reticulum surrounds the muscle-fibres ; and where the latter are few and scattered , the reticulum forms a very definite adventitia to the vessel .
7 .
The chyle-vessels are also found to have an adventitia formed by the reticulum ; i. e. in longitudinal sections of the vessel threads are seen attaching the vessel to the reticulum .
The reticulum can be seen to penetrate between the endothelial cells in the same manner as in the veins .
8 .
The tissue of the mucosa is shown to be composed everywhere of a reticulum and of cells held in its meshes .
The author finds that while there is no difference , or only slight differences , between the reticulum i ,176 .
] Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal .
243 9e the villus and that of the lymphatic follicles , there are considerable j'cJerences between the cells of a lymphatic follicle and those of the villi ; i u the villi the cells are polygonal , with oval nuclei and faintly granular iqotoplasm ; the cells are arranged as an endothelium , and can hardly be Distinguished from the endothelial cells of the membrana propria , of the .I ood-vessels , and of the lymphatics .
A gradual transition is found i om the spherical lymph-corpuscles of the lymphatic follicles to the g \gt ; lygonal cells ( connective-tissue corpuscles ) of the upper part of the 4 Hi .
It is found that there are more lymph-corpuscles in the villi of some ii umals than in those of others .
s The author concludes that " the mucous membrane of the intestine is jrvaded everywhere by a reticulum , similar to and continuous with that i und in the lymphatic follicles of Peyer 's patches .
This reticulum is c tuated among all the other elements which are contained in its meshes , r his is true of the epithelial cells , the muscle-fibres , the cells of the irenchyma , the endothelial plates of the membrana propria , of the blood-tdssels , and of the lymphatics .
" .
9 .
Fat-absorption by the reticulum\#151 ; ( a ) by the reticulum between ie epithelial cells.\#151 ; The fat is seen to be arranged in lines between the idividual cells on viewing the epithelium from above .
The separate a ells in teased preparations appear to contain fat ; but it is considered I bat this appearance is due to the fat-particles in the attached threads of i eticulum .
] The paper then relates the different situations in which this reticulum ias been seen ( as in the salivary glands , rete Malpighii of the skin , oerous membranes , epithelium of the respiratory tract , \amp ; c. ) , with the \#166 ; !
lifferent views which various authors have held concerning it .
( 6 ) Fat-absorption by the reticulum of the villus.\#151 ; During absorption fat 1 3 found to travel by the reticulum .
Chapter II .
gives an account of the minute anatomy of the pyloric end \gt ; f the stomach .
This chapter commences by a short history of previous researches , then follows a description of the minute structure .
The 'ollowing are the results obtained :\#151 ; .
1 .
The surface is seen to present somewhat parallel folds the domach-tubes opening on the summits of these folds are longer than \lt ; those which open in the depressions between the folds .
2 .
The epithelium is described as being closed during inanition , but j open at its free extremity during secretion .
3 .
The germination of the epithelium is next described .
The con- ' elusions arrived at are:\#151 ; that the epithelial cells divide ; that the small !
rounded cells ( other than the lymph-corpuscles ) are the products of their division ; that these small cells , increasing in size , rise up among the older cells , push them to one side and become short broad cells ; that the 244 Presents .
[ Jan. g short broad cells divide longitudinally , and form groups of two or three , or even more cells , which the author calls " epithelial buds .
" 4 .
A reticulum among the epithelial cells is described : it is found to be very delicate , and does not extend to the surface .
5 .
The membrana propria is found to be composed of large cells .
6 .
The muscle-endings in the plicse villosae are similar to those in the colon of the rabbit , already described .
7 .
Perivascular spaces are found in the upper part of the plica villosse ; these spaces are bordered by endothelial cells : the membrana propria forms the upper wall of the space .
8 .
The proper gland-tubes.\#151 ; A fine reticulum , is described as occurring among the epithelium of these glands .
The nuclei are found usually as flattened disks lying at the base of the cells .
The nuclei are , however , during digestion occasionally found to be spherical in form .
A third kind of nucleus was also found , which was possibly intermediate between the two other forms .
Chapter III .
describes the mucous membrane at the point of transition between the stomach and intestine : after giving a short history of the subject , it is shown that in many animals Brunner 's glands are only the continuation of the proper glands of the stomach .
Part of the proper gland-tubes break through the muscularis mucosae , and then the glands are situated in the mucosa and submucosa ; finally they are only found in the submucosa .
The mucosa at the point of transition was found to contain lymphoid follicles in very varying amount , the mucosa being in some animals almost free from them , and in others composed in a great measure of lymphatic tissue .
This latter condition was found to be the case in dogs which were kept on a very reduced diet .
Presents received , January 6 , 1876 .
Transactions .
Batavia :\#151 ; Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en " Wetenschappen .
Verhandelingen .
Deel XXXVII .
, XXXVIII .
roy .
8vo .
1875 .
Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal- , Land- , en Volkenkunde .
Peel XXI .
Afl .
5 , 6 ; Deel XXII .
Ail .
4-6 ; Deel .
XXIII .
Afl .
1 .
1874-75 .
Notulen van de Algemeene en Bestuurs-Vergaderingen .
Deel XII .
No. 4 ; Deel .
XIII .
No. 1 , 2 .
8vo .
1875 .
The Society .
Copenhagen :\#151 ; Academy Iloyale .
Memoires .
Class des Sciences .
5me Serie .
Vol. X. No. 7,8 , 9 ; Vol. XI .
No. 1 ; Vol. XII .
No. L 4to .
1875 .
Bulletin pour 1874 .
No. 3 ; 1875 .
No. 1 ( Oversigt ) .
8vo .
The Academy-

