]\gt ; December 10 , 1891 .
Sir WILLIAII THOMSON , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents\mdash ; The Treasurer .
Professor G. C. Foster .
Professor Living .
Sir G. G. Stokes .
The President read the following Letter from Professor Dewar:\mdash ; Institution , 10th December , 1891 .
DEAR SIR WILLIAM THOMSON , The following observation , which I have just made , may the members of the Royal Society , and if you think it of sufficient tance you may announce it at this day 's meeting .
At 3 .
this afternoon I placed a quantity of liquid oxygen in the state of rapid ebullition in air ( and therefore at a temperature of C. between the poles of the historic Faraday magnet , in a cup-shaped piece of rock salt ( which I have found is not moistened by liquid oxygen , and therefore keeps it in the spheroidal state ) , and to my surprise I have witnessed the liquid oxygen , as soon as the magnet was stimulated , suddenly leap up to the poles and remain there manently attached until it .
To see liquid oxygen suddenly atbracted by the magnet is a very beautiful confirmation of our knowledge of the properties of gaseous oxygen .
Yours faithfully , JAMES DEWAR .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I ' : On a Compensated Air Thermometer By H. L. CALLENDAR , 11.A .
, Fellow of Trimity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prot'essor J. J. THOMSON , F.R.S. Received Octuber 29 , 1891 .
In a paper which I had the nour present to the Royal Societ .
jour years ago ' On the Practical Measurement of Temperameters of this type , but modified them by the introduction of ulphuric acid gauge of small bore between the thermometric the mercnry manometer .
I was tbus enabled to reduce the bo be applied for the small volume of air which was not xposed to the mperature to be measured , and at the same time to observe small variations of temperature with greater accuracy .
The constant-volume bype of air thermometer , however , hue sevcral disadvantages .
The degree of accuracy attainable depends primarily on the exact measurement of pressure by means of a mercury manometel ' .
The observations involved are slow and laborious , and it is difficult , unless the temperature is absolutely steady , to secure an accuracy of the order of a tenth of a degree C. At high temperatures this method has the further disadvantage the bulb is exposed to variations of pressure , the effect of which in altering its volume cannot be accurately estimated .
For these and other I soon abaudoned the air thermometer in favour of the constant-pressure type .
The may thus be entirely freed from stress at high temperatures , and mercury manometer may be dispensed with .
The xiliary reservok containing mercury into which the air is allowed to dilate may kept permanently in melting ice , and the volume representing the isplaced Tbservation meisure , dmit : very considerable accul.acy .
With the form of lment described in the previous paper , $ was still necessary to read the barometer .
These found to be by fa the greatest of uncertaiuty .
I was so impressed with this in the course of some experiments on the boilin } point of sulphur that Idetermined to construct an instrump which should be together independeut of the measurement { mercury columns .
If the pressure of the air encJosed , instead of being adjusted 1 equality with that of the atmosphere , be adjusted always to the * ' Phil. Trans , 1887 .
' Phil. Trans. , ' , 1891 , p. 130 .
On a Compei ; sated Air lr ermometer .
249 sbdard constant pressure , the ouble of reading the barometer will be saved , and the calculations will be considerably simplified .
The simplest , and at the time the most accurate , method of securing a standard constant pressure is to connect the outer limb of the sulphuric acid gauge to a glass bulb filled with air of suitable density , and kept melting ice , preferably in bhe same receptacle as the mercury bulb in which the dilatation of the air is measured .
pressure iu the thermometric bulb can easily be adjusted to uality with the standard pressure to within 1 or 2 mm. of sulphuric acid , and the small outstanding difference of pressure can ) read quickly and accurately by means of a kathetometer microscope .
I set up an experimental instrumsnt of this kind in October , 1890 , and satisfied myself that it was quite possible to read its indications to the thousandth part of a degree C. at ordinary temperatures .
This , I believe , to be a very much higher order of accuracy than has hitherto been thought attainable with an air thermometer .
My only remaining difficulty was the slight uncertainIiy as to the meau temperature of the connecting tubes .
By the use of the sulphuric acid gauge it is possible to make this correction comparatively small , but it still remains uncertain , and varies slightly with the extent of immersion of the sbem of the ffiermometer .
It is also a rather oublesome c rection to apply , and complicates all the caIcuIations very ] It has since occurred to me that this troublesome and uncertain correction may be entirely eliminated , both from the observations and from the calculations , with this particular form of instrument , by making the standard pre , ssure bulb communicate with a set of connecting tubes equal in volume and situated to those of the thermometric bulb itself .
The method of determining the correction to be applied for that part of the stem of which the temperature is variable , by means of a similar compensating placed in close proximity to it , has occasionally been applied by previous obscrverbt .
It was first ployed by Deville and Troost in 1864 , in their experiments on the exPansion of porcelain at high temperatures .
They connected the oompensating tube to a sepal.ate manometer , and by observing ] prefe re or the amount of the air it contained were enabled to eliminate term representing the effect of the connecting tubes from their tions .
Other observers have used a similar device , but , so far as I am aware , no one hitherto noticed that , in the case of the diiferential thermometer , the compensation can be rendered automatic , so that of tempcrature of the connecting tubes have no effect on the readings , and need not be taken into account calculations .
The under which the compensation is perfect with the 25 Mr. H. L. CalLndar .
[ Dec. form of instrument above described are very simple .
They are , that the two sets of connecting tubes should be of equal volume at the same mean temperature ; ( 2 ) that the mass of air enclosed the standard pressure bulb should be equal to thab in the thermo .
metric and mercury bulbs ; ( 3 ) that the pressures should be to equality .
Let be the mass of air in the standal.d pressure bulb and connecting tubes , and let be its pressure .
Let ) the volumo of the bulb , and its temperature measured on the scale of tho air ibhermometer .
Let !
be the volume of the connecting tubes , and their mean temperature ; then lve have where is a constant .
Let be the mass of air in the thermometric and mercury bulbs and their connecting tubes , and let be its pressure .
Let be the volumes of the air in these bulbs respectively at the tures and ; then we have as before If now we make , and , we have the equation The term disappears from the equation , and if we also by keeping both the mercnry and standard pressure bulbs melting ice , the of is accurately given by the very simplw expression .
It is convement , and at the same time more symmetrical , to the volume of the standard pressure bulb adjustable with mercury .
It is then possible to take observations with the same thermometer at different pressures .
By this means , as explained in a previous paper , $ we can investigate with some accuracy the behaviour of gases athigh temperatures , and thus reduce the dications of the air thermometer to the true scale of absolute temperature .
The form of instrument above described is designed for the most accurate work .
For rough purposes , and especially for small of temperature , very much ] instruments may be on similar ) rinciples .
It is evident , from an inspection of the equations already that the compensation is still sufficiently accurate for rough work , provided that the difference of pressure is small , and that the volumo * ' Phil. Trans , 1887 , p. 223 .
1691 .
] On a Compensated Air Thermometer .
251 of the connecting tubes is Ilot too large compared with that of the bulb .
It is often a mabber of great convenienre to have the thermometric bulb at some distance from the indicating apparatus , and not rigidly connected to it .
Since the connecting tubes are compensated , they may be made of considerable length and of flexible material , such as compo .
or even rubber tubing , without much loss of accuracy .
For moderate anges of temperature , an auxiliary bulb for measuring the dilatation of the air and adjusting the pressures to equality may be dispensed with .
The sulphuric acid gauge itseIf may be graduated to in ( licate the difference of temperature between the two bulbs .
In ordiuary work , ] ] owever , it would be enient either to keep the standard bulb always the same tomperature , or to take its temperature and do an addition sum at each observation .
The simplest way of avoiding this is to adjust the volums of the sulphuric acid in the essure gauge so that expansion may compensate for the ation of the air in the standard pressure bulb .
This compensatiou readily be made sufficiently accurate over small range of temperature of the air of a workshop or laboratory .
Whell the instrument is thus compensated for anges of temperature in the standard bulb , one tubc of the pressure gauge can be adtlated directly in to indicate the temperature of the bulb .
The indications are then as easy to read as those of a mercury thel.mometel. .
They are not affected by changes of temperature in the air or by variations in the height of the rometer , and they are independent of the length of stem immersed .
The covered by a single ument may be C. or more , and may be made to correspond to any part of the scaLe by suitably the volumes of the air bulbs and tubes of the pressure gauge .
I have found such mometel S exceedingly convenient and tisfactory f. rough work at temperatures beyond the of mercury ters .
They can be made to read easily to the tenth of a degree at C. , and if properly compensat ) their indications are very reliable .
Such a degree of accuracy is amply sufficient for } purposes , and the absence of all necessity for calculation correction of the readings is a great Perhaps I ought to mention that this direct-reading form of instrument boen patented , owing to its many commercial applications .
It is made by Mr. J. J. , of Hatton Garden ,

