150 Messrs. Gr .
C. and P. F. Frankland .
[ Mar. 3 , possible on the application of the stimuli afforded by particular surroundings ; secondly , that some larvoe , in the absence of these stimuli , but in conditions otherwise favourable , are highly variable .
thirdly , that the variations produced by a given change in the environment may be of an uniform and definite character ; and lastly that these changes may result , not in the modification of ancestral organs but in the hypertrophy of those which are purely larval .
The last of these considerations leads to the hope that a further investigation of similar cases may afford a criterion by which to interpret larval histories in general .
EXPLANATION OP THE FIGURES .
Pig .
1.\#151 ; Lateral longitudinal section ( nearly median ) through a young Bernini larva , just before the appearance of the collar-fold .
Pig .
2.\#151 ; Transverse section through the trunk of a Bernini larva , at the time of the greatest development of the gill-pouches .
ig .
3.\#151 ; Nearly median longitudinal section through a degenerate Bernini larva .
he arrangement of the tentaculiferous grooves is indicated by shading within the dotted lines .
Reference Letters\#151 ; An. , anus ; Bl , blastocoel ; branchial pouch ; " noto-c lord of Bateson ; Ci .
, cilia ; Gl .
, proboscis gland ; M. , mouth ; Me .
, mesenchym " of proboscis cavity ; P. , proboscis pore ; PI . ?
, cells of blastocoel , possibly phagocytes ; " scheitelplatte " ; I , II , III , body cavities of proboscis , collar , and trunk respectively .
II .
" Studies of some New'- Micro-organisms obtained from Air .
" By Gr .
C. Frankland , and Percy F. Frankland , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , F.C.S. , F.I.C. Communicated by E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Zoology , University College , London .
Received February 15 .
1887 .
( Abstract .
) In pievious communications to the Royal Society by one of the authors , * details have been given of a number of experiments on the presence of micro-organisms in the atmosphere .
In these investigations a solid culture medium was employed , which not only greatly facilitated their enumeration , but also presented them in an isolated condition .
In this manner the authors have met with a number of * 1 .
The Distribution of Micro-organisms in Air , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 40 , p. 509 ; 2 .
" A New Method for the Quantitative Estimation of the Microorganisms present in the Atmosphere , " ibidvol .
41 , p. 443 ; 3 .
" Further Experiments on the Distribution of Micro-organisms in Air by Hesse 's method , " ibid. , 1887 .
] New Micro-Organisms obtained from Air .
different varieties of aerial micro-organisms , which have hitherto remained either unknown or undescribed .
They have therefore undertaken the characterisation of a number of these organisms by growing them in various cultivating media and observing the different appearances which they subsequently exhibit , by studying them microscopically in stained and unstained preparations , and by cultivating them on gelatine-plates , and describing the colonies to which they give rise .
They have likewise made a number of drawings to illustrate the appearances which they present under the various examinations to which they have submitted them .
To further facilitate their identification the authors have provisionally given them names , by which they have endeavoured to represent some of their most striking individualities .
The authors venture to hope that by thus characterising some of the organisms most prevalent in the atmosphere , they may prove of assistance in those investigations which have for their object the study of the particular physiological changes which are brought about by specific micro-organisms .
The following is a list of the micro-organisms described :\#151 ; Micrococcus carnicolor .
" albus .
" gigas .
" chryseus .
" candicans .
Streptococcus liquefaciens .
Sarcina liquefaciens .
Bacillus aurescens siccus .
" aureus .
" citreus .
Bacillus plicatus .
" chlorinus .
" polymorphus .
" profusus .
" pestifer vermicularis .
" subtilis minor .
" subtilis cereus .
Saccharomyces rosaceus .
" liquefaciens .
Mycelium fuscum .
In addition to these varieties a description has been given for the \#171 ; ake of comparison of some aerial micro-organisms which were obtained by one of the authors from Dr. Koch 's laboratory in Berlin .
These are\#151 ; Micrococcus rosaceus .
Sarcina lutea .
, , aurantiaca .
Bacillus subtilis .
" ( Micrococcus ) prodi-giosus .

