467 1693 .
] On the Metallurgy of Bismuth , action of small doses of strophanthin on the cardiac nervous mechanism of that animal .
The lengthening out of the systole in veratrine poisoning corresponds to the same well-known lengthening of the systole in the frog 's heart under veratrine .
The reversing of rhythm observed in morphine poisoning is similar to that mentioned by Ludwig* as occurring in the mammalian ventricle when under the influence of opium , for then the auricular beats follow instead of precede the ventricular beats , the rhythm being reversed .
The same occurs in amyl nitrite poisoning .
Krukenbergf has stated that neither atropine nor muscarine affects the heart of Aseidians .
My observations on the action of atropine and muscai'ine , which have been made- on a large number of embryos , show that in the absence of a nervous mechanism they do not influence the heart .
This will probably modify the current views on the action of these drugs , and my results show that the method I have adopted is a valuable one for differentiating the functions of cardiac muscle from those of the nerves which supply it .
II .
" Further Researches in Connexion with the Metallurgy of Bismuth .
" By Edward Matthey , F.S.A. , F.C.S. , Assoc. Roy .
Sch .
Mines .
Communicated by Sir G. G. Stokes , Bart. , F.R.S. Received November 21 , 1892 .
In 1886-87 and in 1890 I submitted papers to the Royal Society bringing under notice facts which had come to my knowledge whilst engaged upon the practical extraction of this beautiful metal from its ores , and in its separation from impurities which are always associated with it when in a crude or unrefined state .
TV .
Bismuth , its Separation from Arsenic .
In a paper dated February 10 , 1887 , allusion is made to the fact that arsenic is often one of these impurities , and at the same time a method is given by which the separation of this metal from bismuth wa3 then successfully effected .
The process adopted when that paper was read , and for a considerable period subsequently , when working upon bismuth containing arsenic , consisted in removing the arsenic by fusing the arsenical * Ludwig , ' Lehrbuch der Physiol , des Menschen , ' Bd .
2 ( 1861 ) , p. 38 .
Krukenberg , quoted in Brunton 's ' Text-Book of Pharmacology , \amp ; c. ( 3rd edition , p. 114 ) .
I ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 49 .
VOL. LII .
* I 468 Mr. E. Matthey .
[ Jan. 26y bismuth in contact with metallic iron at a dull-red heat and under flux .
A compound of iron and arsenic was thus formed and could be removed as a scum ; the disadvantages of this process being , 1st , loss of bismuth by volatilisation , and , 2ndly , much loss of time in the manipulation of any large quantity to be treated .
Having occasion , a few months ago , to melt together a large quantity of arsenical bismuth , some 700 or 800 kilos .
, that is , more than three quarters of a ton , in order to obtain a homogeneous alloy upon which to woyk subsequently by the process above alluded to , it became evident that when the temperature was raised above the melting point of bismuth , the surface of the metal being exposed to the atmosphere , arsenical fumes appeared , and that these increased as the temperature of the metal became more elevated , the result being that the arsenic came off in dense white fumes ( As20$ ) .
The observation of this fact led to further experiments , and it was found that if the surface of the bath of fused arsenical bismuth was freely exposed to the air at a temperature rather higher than its own melting point , and if the molten metal was constantly stirred , it was possible to eliminate the whole of the arsenic alloyed with the bismuth by this simple process of fusion with stirring .
As it is a matter of considerable interest for metallurgists to know , , not only that this elimination does take place , but also at what temperature it occurs , a series of experiments have been conducted with a view of determining this accurately .
The work of Roberts-Austen has shown that a thermo-junction is practically the only form of pyrometer that can be used for delicate thermal investigations of this kind , but the question arose which particular thermo-junction should be adopted .
Was it well to use the platinum-iridium one as advocated by Barus , or the platinum-rhodium one suggested by H. Le Chatelier ?
My previous work on the alloys of platinum and rhodium , lately published in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' settled the question in favour of the rhodium-platinum thermo-junction , for I was satisfied that the alloy of platinum with 10 per cent , of rhodium is as homogeneous as any known alloy could well be , and is therefore admirably adapted for use as a thermojunction , pure platinum being the opposing metal .
The diagram shows the results obtained by calibrating the thermojunction by the aid of certain known melting points .
The temperature at which arsenic is eliminated is also shown on the diagram .
Analysis proved that the alloy operated upon in these experiments contained 0*65 per cent , of metallic arsenic .
' Prom the diagram it will be seen that the melting point of this alloy of bismuth is 278 ' C. By raising the temperature of the alloy to 395 ' C. the arsenic freely sublimates from the bismuth alloy , and at a temperature of 513 ' C. the whole of the arsenic is eliminated .
893 .
] On the Metallurgy of Bismuth .
A point of much interest in relation to molecular physics became evident in the course of the investigation .
Arsenic , as is well known , volatilises at the comparatively low temperature of 180 ' C. , without passing through the molten state .
Arsenic is not , however , 2 i 2 470 Mr. E. Matthey .
[ Jan. 26 , given off freely from the arsenical bismuth until a temperature of 395 ' is reached .
So that the temperature of disassociation of this alloy , containing 0'65 per cent , of arsenic , is 114 ' C. higher than the melting point of the mass .
It was interesting to determine at what temperature the arsenic would be evolved if the alloy were heated vacuo .
A portion of the bismuth alloy containing 0'65 per cent , of arsenic was introduced into a hard glass tube , slightly depressed to its centre , and connected at one end with a Sprengel pump , by which it could be rendered vacuous .
The pyrometric wires were in contact with the metallic alloy and passed to the galvanometer through the opposite sealed end of the glass tube .
Heat being applied , the first indication of the volatilisation of the arsenic , shown by the condensation of a film on the cool part of the tube , occurred at 275 ' C. When the alloy was quite melted the tern- , perature indicated was 316 ' C. ; arsenic came off freely when the temperature rose to 569 ' C. , condensing in a black mirror .
The metal was then allowed to cool , and its setting point was found to be 268 ' C. , which corresponds with that of the melting point of bismuth .
The bulk of the arsenic does not appear to be evolved in vacuo at a lower temperature than in air .
As regards the industrial application of the process , some ten to twelve tons of arsenical bismuth have already been treated in this very simple way , and it has been satisfactorily ascertained that there is no loss of bismuth by volatilisation with the arsenic .
Part V.\#151 ; The Separation of Bismuth from Antimony .
The process hitherto adopted in practice for the separation of antimony from bismuth has usually consisted in a simple fusion at a dull-red heat with bismuth oxide or bismuth " litharge " \#151 ; an operation successful enough as to its results , but one requiring no small amount of skill in manipulation ; it is also one by which only small quantities can be treated readily at one time\#151 ; and moreover , the temperature which is necessary to effect the separation of the antimony involves appreciable loss on account of the volatilisation of the bismuth at a red heat , notwithstaiiding many tens of tons of bismuth have , however , been treated under my direction by this process .
In an operation lately conducted , involving the melting of a quantity of bismuth containing about one per cent , of antimony , it was found that a peculiar oily film was noticeable rising to the surface of the melted alloy ; this film did not form all over the surface of the 1893.1 On the Metallurgy of Bismuth .
metal , but appeared to rise as from a boiling centre , and this although the metal was at a temperature very little above its melting point .
A portion of the film or layer was removed and tested in order to ascertain its nature , and it was found to contain a very appreciable proportion of antimony .
I , therefore , caused the operation to be continued , stirring the metal from time to time with a dried wood stirrer .
In the course of three or four hours , removing the film from time to time , the surface of the melted metal assumed a much brighter appearance , and on carefully testing it at this point , the metal was found to be absolutely free from antimony .
To confirm this and to ascertain more exactly the conditions under which this separation takes place , a further quantity of impure bismuth was operated upon in a similar manner .
This second quantity contained other impurities besides antimony , its analysis being as follows : Bismuth , by difference ... ... . .
96*20 Antimony ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*80 Tellurium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*40 Lead ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2*10 Copper ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0*50 Arsenic ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
traces The same simple process of fusion and stirring was again adopted \#151 ; the quantity being about 350 kilogrammes\#151 ; and when the same oily film commenced to rise to the surface the temperature of the molten mass of the alloy.was taken by means of the Le Chatelier pyrometer .
A portion of the film removed showed , on being tested , a percentage of over 30 per cent , of antimony .
A slightly perceptible fume of arsenic was apparent as volatilising , so proving what I found to be the case in the separation of arsenic by simple fusion .
( See ante .
) The point at which this separation of antimony occurs was found to be 350 ' C. , and at this temperature the metal was maintained for about five hours .
The evidence of an oxidising action became now much less , and , although a very small amount of antimony was present , there was still a little remaining in thefalloy ; the temperature , therefore , was slightly raised and maintained at 458 ' C. , as shown by the pyrometer , for about four hours , at the end of which time the bismuth became absolutely free from antimony .
The form in which the antimony separated was peculiar\#151 ; a transparent glass , consisting of antimony oxide\#151 ; containing about 10 per cent , of bismuth , but of course in the removal of the antimony oxide a small proportion of the bismuth was mechanically carried with it , Mr. W Brennand .
[ Jan. 26 , resulting in the production of several very interesting and very beautiful metallurgical specimens .
The great advantage of this process is , like that of the foregoing separation from arsenic , its extreme simplicity , the low temperature which renders it possible to work upon very large quantities at one time , and the very small amount of time necessary for this separation in comparison with the process hitherto adopted , and the absence of loss in the bismuth operated upon by volatilisation .
It is obvious that where metals can be so easily treated in large quantities , the labour and skill hitherto necessary is very considerably reduced , and there is the additional advantage that the loss attending large operations is minimised .
In this and in my previous papers upon this beautiful metal bismuth , I have been able to point to simple dry processes for its separation from gold , lead , copper , arsenic , and .antimony , and all these processes are available for treating with care large quantities at one time .
When it is remembered what is involved in having to dissolve any quantity of bismuth in acids , and its subsequent precipitation from solution , it surely will be admitted that much of the difficulty in purifying crude bismuth has been effectively removed , as the methods given have been found possible in practice , and advantageous .
I have introduced upon the diagram the points at which arsenic is volatilised , and also the point at which antimony separates from bismuth under the conditions described in this paper .
III .
On the Three-Bar Motion of Watt .
" By William Brennand .
Communicated by C. B. Clarke , F.R.S. Received January 2 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The figure represents a simple form of " Watt 's Parallel Motion .
" OA = O'B \#151 ; rare the arms that can turn freely about 0,0 ' , fixed centres , in one plane .
The link AB is pivoted at A and B. As the arms move , P the middle of the link , traces out a portion of the curve , viz. , from Q to Q ' , backwards and forwards , nearly in a right line .
* , 00 = O'O = d.\#151 ; Of the three parameters d , r , l , any one can be taken as unit ( in this paper l is taken 10 units ) ; then d and r are independent parameters .
The problem Watt had to solve was to discover numerical values of d and r that should give the tracing point P the smallest deviation from a right line .
Watt gave a series of values for d and r which are employed by engineers , with small thumb-rule ameliorations , to this day .
They are

