II .
" Contribution towards the History of Thialdine .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 30 , 1857 .
Researches into the behaviour of several organic bases with bisulphide of carbon , which I intend to lay before the Society at a later period , have led to some experiments with thialdine , the results of which I may be allowed briefly to state , since they are but loosely connected with the principal object of the inquiry .
It appeared of interest to gain some insight into the constitution of thialdine , which is the prototype of an important class of alkaloids containing sulphur .
To what group of bases does this body belong ?
Is it a primary , a secondary , or a tertiary base ?
The favourite method of questioning bases by means of iodide of methyl promised to furnish some elucidation of this subject .
Thialdine , dissolved in iodide of methyl , to which conveniently its own bulk of ether has been added , furnishes after twelve hours a solid crystalline mass , which may be readily freed from adhering thialdine by washing with ether and recrystallizing from alcohol .
The crystalline compound produced in this manner is the iodide of a methylated base , generated , as proved by analysis , by the union of equal equivalents of the two constituents .
C12 H13 NS4 + C2 3=I C14 116 NS4 I Thialdine .
Iodide of Iodide of methyl .
methylthialdine .
The deportment of the new iodide resembles that of iodide of tetramethylammonium , and the analogous iodides , which I have described some years ago .
Insoluble in ether , soluble in alcohol , and precipitated from this solution by ether in the crystalline state , soluble in water with an acid reaction , and separated from it again , unchanged by potassa in the cold , this substance exhibits in general all the characters which distinguish the iodides of the so-called ammonium-bases .
The great mobility of the elements in thialdine , and especially the large amount of sulphur which it contains , afforded but little hope of successfully submitting the new iodide to the experiment with oxide of silver , which is so characteristic for the ammoniumbases .
On adding oxide of silver to the aqueous solution of this body , which , as has been remarked already , possesses an acid reaction , iodide of silver is formed , and the liquid assumes at once a marked alkaline reaction ; but since the almost simultaneous formation of sulphide of silver , and a powerful evolution of aldehyde , sufficiently indicate the perfect destruction of the compound , and since experiment denotes the presence of ammonia in the liquid , it is impossible to decide whether the alkaline reaction observed after decomposition is due to the liberation of an ephemeral ammonium-base , or to its product of decomposition .
My experiments appear nevertheless to establish that thialdine belongs to the tertiary bases , -that it is a nitrile-base .
Ammonia N{HH Thialdine N{ C12 113 S4 .
To the complex molecule , C12 1113 S4 , we must ascribe the faculty of replacing the 3 equivalents of hydrogen in the ammonia .
In what manner , however , the elements are grouped in this complex molecule , whether we have here to assume a very unstable tribasic radical , or whether special molecules are inserted for each of the hydrogen-equivalents in the ammonia ; to decide these points further experiments are required .
Liebig and Wohler , in their memoir on thialdine , state that the whole of the nitrogen of this base is eliminated in the form of ammonia , if the compound be decomposed by nitrate of silver .
This deportment appeared to furnish an easy mode of controlling the formula of methylthialdine ; after the decomposition of this body by nitrate of silver , I expected to find the whole of the nitrogen in the residuary liquid in the form of methylamine .
On performing the experiment , it was found that the liquid contained considerable quantities of ammonia , but together with the latter alkali a fixed base .
This unexpected deportment reminded me of experiments published several years ago * , on the action of oxide of silver on thialdine , which is said to be thus converted into Leucine .
The question presented itself , were the phenomena observed in the present case of an analogous character ?
had the above experiment given rise to the formation of methylated Leucine ?
Experiment proved that the decomposition of iodide of methylthialdine by oxide of silver gives rise to the formation of ammonia and of the oxide of tetramethylammonium C2 113 C2 NO , HO , C2 H3 C2 Hi N0 , H0 which was satisfactorily identified by the analysis of the goldand platinum-compound .
The following equation represents this change:4C4H I16 NS4 I+ 20AgO+2HO=4AgI+ 16AgS+ 12C4H402 Iodide of methylAldehyde .
thialdine .
+313N +C H12NO HO Hydrate of the oxide of tetramethylammonium .
The absence of any leucine-like compound among the products of decomposition of iodide of methylthialdine induced me to repeat the experiment on the action of oxide of silver upon thialdine itself .
The transformation of thialdine into leucine , announced several years ago , and apparently very intelligible by the analogy of the formulae of the two bodies Thialdine ... .
C1H13 NS4 Leucine ... ... C12 3 N04 , has not failed to rivet the attention of chemists .
I wonder how such an error could have crept into science ; for I have convinced myself , by a series of careful experiments , that this assertion is without the slightest foundation .
Thialdine , when treated with oxide of silver , as might have been expected , undergoes the same decomposition which Liebig and Wohler had effected by means of nitrate of silver .
It furnishes in this process aldehyde , acetic acid , and ammonia , but no leucine .
In conclusion , a remark which refers to a question connected with this alleged formation of leucine:-Soon after the statement regarding this subject had been made , Wagner* observed that the action of bisulphide of carbon upon amylamine gives rise to the formation of a crystalline compound .
This compound was not analysed , but Wagner suggested that possibly it might be thialdine , CIo H3 N+ 2CS2= C12 H13 NS4 , Amylamine Thialdine and that in case this assumption proved to be correct , the action of bisulphide of carbon upon the homologues of ammonia might lead to the artificial formation , not only of leucine , but of glycocine , alanine , &amp;c. During my experiments on the deportment of bisulphide of carbon with organic bases , I have also had occasion to study the compound of amylamine with bisulphide of carbon .
It is only necessary superficially to compare this substance with thialdine , in order to perceive at once that they are two absolutely different compounds ; and if there is still a chance of producing leucine from amylamine , it is because the action of bisulphide of carbon does not give rise to the formation of thialdine .

