]\gt ; Advancing Front of lIitted b " " The Advancing Front of the Train of Waves emitted by a Hertzian Oscillator By A. E. H. LovE , F.R.S. , Sedleian Professor of Philosophy in the University of Oxford .
Received May June 2 , 1904 .
The waves emitted by Hertz 's oscillator have been identified with those due to a vibrating electric doublet , that is to say , to a singular point ( of a certain type ) of the electromagnetic equation In air or in free aether these equations may be written in the forms curl ] ( 1 ) , curl in which is the velocity of radiation , denotes the electric force measured in electrostatic units , denotes the magnetic force measured in electromagnetic units .
These equations are nearly identical with those which have been used by Hertz .
They differ from the latter in that is here written for the quantity whioh Hertz wrote , and they differ also the signs of the right-hand } The reason for the latter difference is that Hertz used a left-handed system of axes of ; but it is on many grounds more oonvenient to use a right-handed system , as will be done here .
The field due to a variable doublet at the origin , with its axis parallel to of is expressed by equations of the form ( 2 ) , in which denotes the distance of any point from the igin , and is the moment of the doublet at time .
In Hertz 's work the function is taken to be a simple harmonic metiolt of its argument , and vritten in a form equivalent to El .
This supposition would be adequate if the vibrations were maintained , * " " Die Kriifte , 'oeh Ielr ) der Theory ' Ann. Phys. Chem. ' ( Wiedemann ) , vol. 36 ( 1888 ) .
Reprinted in Itertz , Untersuchungen breitung d elektrischell raft Leipzig , , p. 147 , and 'Electric Waves ' ( English edition ) , p. 137 .
The detailed eferences in the text are to the pages of the English edition .
74 Prof. A. ] .
H. Love .
The of the [ May 9 , or if the damping due to radiation were very slight .
The actual damping of Hertz 's oscillator has been investigated experimentally by Bierkne and shown to be very considerable .
Accordingly , we ought to take for a funotion of the form ( 3 ) , where is the wave-length , A a constant depending upon the amplitude of the vibrations , a constant expressing the phase , and a constant expressing the damping .
to the experiments of Bierknes already cited , may be taken to be about when the wave-length is about 10 .
The effect of the introduction of the exponential factor into the expression for has been investigated in an elaborate memoir by K. Pearson and A. Lee .
In that memoir it is supposed that the fixed epoch from which time is measured is the instant at which the vibrations begin , so that , at any instant , the field expressed by ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) is confined to the region within the sphere .
In the expression for the phase-constant is omitted by these authors .
They haYe thus tacitly assumed that vanishes at the front of the advancing wave .
This front is a moving surface which is a surface of ontinuity in regard to the electric and magnetic forces .
Within the surface these forces are expressed by the formulae already written down ; outside the surface they must be expressed ) some other formulae .
The waves , in fact , advance either through a pre-established electrostatic or electromagnetic field of some kind , or possibly through a region of space in which there is no electric or magnetic force .
Whatever view may be taken of the nature of the field outside the wave-front , definite conditions must be satisfied at this surface .
These conditions are known , but they have not been applied to the problem in hand .
It seems worth while to make this application , and , in particular , to ascertain the effect of these conditions in modifying the results obtained by Pearson and Lee .
Let denote in general moving surface which rates two electromagnetic fields .
Then it is known that moves normally to itself with the velocity .
Let and denote the electric and magnetio forces on that side of towards which advances , let denote the direction cosines of the normal drawn towards this side , and let and denotc the electric and magnetic forces on the other side .
Then point it is known that the following six equations must be satisfied:\mdash ; * ' Ann. Phys. Chem. ' ( Wiedemann ) , vol. 44 ( 1891 ) .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 193 , 1900 .
1904 .
] of ( jmitted Oscitlator .
, , ( 4 ) .
These tions may be expressed in ords in the statements that the components of electric and magnetio force along the normal to are continuous , and that the discontintlities of the tangential components of the electric and magnetic forces are equal in magnitude and are directed along lines at right angles to each other in such a way that the discontinuity of electric force , the of magnetic force , and the normal to the sul.face , in order , are parallel to the axes of ) system .
The in which there is no electric or magnetic force on the side of }ards which it advances is derl by and equal to zero , and the case in which the fieId on this side of the is electrostatic is inclnded by putting equal to zero .
The conditions ( 4 ) been established a rather troublesome process which may be replaced by the simpler argument:\mdash ; The ordinary equations ( 1 ) of the field fail at the surface of discontinuity through the infinity of some of the differential coefficients , Consider the axis of to be parallel to the normal at a point P. Then as passes over the state of the medium at changes from that expressed by to that expressed by ( X , , , . .
Suppose the change to take place in a very short time , and multiply both sides of the equations ( 1 ) by cSt .
Then in the left-hand members we must write for , and similarly for the other quantities of the same kind .
Again , we may put where is the distance over which the small part of near to moves in the interval ; and then the limit of or is the difference of the values of just before and just behind the surface , or it is .
The limits of such quantities as , in hich the differentiation is performed with respect to any co-ordinate other than .
, are zero .
From the six equations ( 1 ) we deduce in this the six equations , , * These results were tivoly in a paper by the author in 'Pro London Mat Soc. ' ( Ser. 2 ) , vol. 1 , p. 37 ( 1908 ) .
Equivalent conditions appear to been employed by O. Heaviside , Electrical ' vol. 2 , pp. 405 et seq. 76 Prof. A. E. H. Love .
The Advancing of the [ May 9 , These equations express the same relations between the forces and the directio1l of the ormal to as are expressed by ( 4 ) .
In the application of conditions ( 4 ) to the problem of the Hertzian oscillator , the sxternal field , is that which is blished at the instant when the vibrations begin .
At this instant the brass balls of the oscillator are so highly charged that the electric strength of the air between them gives way .
The initial field is that due to the charges at this instant , so that it can most appropriately be represented as the electrostatic field of a fixed doublet .
If denotes the moment of this , the field in question is expressed by the equations ( 5 ) .
Now write down the complete expressions for X , , and in accordance with equations ( 2 ) .
Denoting differential coefficients of the function with respect to its argument by accents , these expressions are X , .
In like manner .
complete expressions for , as given by ( 5 ) , are , ( 7 ) .
Let be the instant when the vibrations begin .
Then is the equation of the surface separating at time the field expressed by from that expressed by ( 7 ) , and the direction cosines of the normal to this surface are .
When these values of X are substituted in ( 4 ) it will be that disappsars , and that the equations ( 4 ) give which must hold when , when the rgument of is zero .
Hence we must have Now take to have the form ( 3 ) .
We find A ( 8 ) .
1904 .
] of Waves emitted by : 77 The second of these equations determines the first mirtes A in terms of B. It appears that ( the moment of the initial doublet ) is the maximum moment of the It has now been that the waves expressed by ( 2 ) in hich is given by ( 3 ) can advance through the field expressed by ( 5 ) , the , are connected by the eqnations ( 8 ) .
it has been shoWll that the waves expressed by ( 3 ) in which is given by ( 3 ) ca1lnot advance through a l.egion in which there is no electric or magIletic force , and that 1ihe phase oonstant cannot nish .
fact , the instead of vanishing at the front of the has there its greatest value .
Expl.essions may be formed for the transverse nlponen t of the electric force and for the magnetic force .
The of electric force lie in planes th ough the axis of the donblet , and the lines of magnetic circles about that axis .
The radial mponent 1 of the electric force is given by the equation -e ( 9 ) , when , but when we have A ( 10 ) , being the angle which a line drawn from the origin to a point at distancs makes with the axis of the doublet .
The transverse component of the electric force is given by the equation ( 11 ) , when , but when we have A .
* The result that the maximum moment of the vibrating doublet ought to be the same as the moment of the doublet existing at the instant when the vibrations begin is noted by M. Brillouin , 'Propagation de , Histoire et Theory ( Paris , 1904 ) , p. 313 .
78 Prof. A. E. H. Love .
The Front of the [ May 9 The magnetic force is given by the equation - ( 13 ) , when , but when it vanisbes .
The radial electric foroe is continuous at the front of the wave , i.e. , at the surface .
The discontinuity of the transverse component of the electric force at the front the wave is . .
( 14 ) , and this is equal , as it should be , to the magnetic force at the front of the wave .
The lines of electric force are the intersections of the planes through the axis of the doublet with a certain family of surfaces const If we denote by the distance of a poinl from the axis , so that , the quantity is , and the components of electric force parallel to the axis and at right angles to it are respectively and .
The flux of electric force throngh any circle with its centre on the axis of the doublet be expressed as .
The form of is given by the equations ( 15 ) , when , and A ( 16 ) , when .
At the separating surface is continuou just as the radial component of electric force is continuous , and in fact we have ( 17 ) , throughout the field .
The particular case where there is no damping by radiation is included in the foregoing by putting ; and then we have A , A. * The use of the function in these problems was initiated by Hertz , loc. 1904 .
] Train of Waves eJnitted by a Hertzicm Oscillator .
79 This is the case discussed by Hertz , but his discussion has no definite reference to the front of the waves .
The field due to the initialIy existing doublet is the well-kllown electrostatic field of a doublet , the lines of electric force being identical with the lines of letic force due to a magrlet or to an uniformly magnetised sphere , or with the lines of flow of incompressible fluid through which a sphere is moving .
These lines have been traced often , a few of them are traced in fig. A. A. ' . . . .
Hertz has figured the lines of force within a distance of of the oscillator at a number of illstants d the progress of a ) tion .
it would be easy to the modifications that ought to be made in his figures of the existenoe of a front to the wave-train and of the existence outside that front of electrostatic field .
The moment of the doublet hich gives rise to this field is the maximum moment of the vibrating doublet .
At the vibration the fletic field of the will be established within a distance from the doublet equal to the which light would travel in the time that psed since the commencement of the vibrations .
After one-eighth of ) eriod , instance , this field will be confined to the of radius , and outside this sphere the field is the ) ove-descl.ibed electrostatic field .
It follows that , to the lines of rce during the first ) rters of a period , a circle of should be * See , J. J. Thomson , of llagnetisn p. 223 , Lamb , ' HydrodyIlamics , ' p. 137 .
Electric ' pp. 144 , fig eprod uced by rillouin , , pp. ; and by A. Gray , ' lIaglletisln:nd London , , pp. VOL. LXXIV .
80 Prof. A. E. H. Love .
The Front of the [ May 9 , described round the centre of one of Hertz 's figures , and the parts of his lines of force which lie outside that circle should be suppressed and their places taken by curves of the family traced in fig. A. The result that at the beginning of the vibration the moment of the doublet is a maximum would be expressed by taking his figures in the order 29 , 30 , 27 , 28 .
After the electromagnetic field has become established , these figures represent the field near the vibrator at instants which are the beginning of a period , of a period later , of a period later , of a period later .
If the arrow heads in his figures are reversed , they represent the same order the field after 3 period , of a period , of a of a period from the beginning of a particular vibration , which is not the first vibration .
To trace the oourse of the first vibration we should proceed as follows : the lnstant when the begin the field is that shown in fig. A. After of a period draw on Hertz 's figure 30 a oircle of radius suppress the part of the figure outside this circle and replace it the part of fig. A which is outside the same circle .
To obtain the fields after period and period , similar work should be done upon Hertz 's figures 27 and 28 with circles of radii .
After a period , reverse the arrow heads in Hertz 's figure 29 , draw on this figure a circle of radius , suppress the part of the figure which is outside this circle and replace it by the part of fig. A which is outside the same circle .
To obtain the fields after period , period , period , similar work should be done upon the figures 30 , 27 , 28 with circles of radii .
These modified figures have not been drawn here because a similar procedure will be adapted presently to the figures of Pearson and Lee in which account is taken of the damping by radiation .
The notation of this paper can be identified with tha6 of Pearson and Lee by means of the equations , El ( 18 ) , in which the quantities El , are used by these authors , and is the quantity which they denote by .
They have traced the lines of electric force , given by constant , for certain chosen values of , for a region of space between the spheres and , and for fifty-six values of .
: .
The chosen values of are suoh that .
The curves thus formed are shown in their Plates 1\mdash ; 7 , each plate containing eight figures .
The chosen value of is * In Hertz 's notation it would be .
Hertz has used the letter to denote the half wave-length .
is the period .
A number of these figures have been reproduced by M. Brmouin in plates the end of his treatise already cited .
1904 .
] of by Hertzian cillator .
81 The lines of force drawn in some of hese figures need some modification on account of the existence of a front of the wave-train .
At any instant the electromagnetic field thali is propagated with the waves will have reached a distance from the oscillator , and therefore those parts only of the curves which lie within circles of radii are lines of force in the actual vibrations .
Outside spheres hav1ng these radii the actual field is the electrostatic field due to the fixed doublet , .
: it is the field expressed by ( 5 ) and figured in fig. A. In the notation of ( 18 ) the lines of force in this field are given by the equation The continuations of the lines of force outside the wave-fronts at the various times in question are obtained by equating this expression to the values .
The heavy dotted , heavy continuous , fine dotted and fine continuous curves in fig. A have been drawn to correspond with these four pairs of values , being represented by 1 inch cm The value of being , the following values are found for the various quantities:\mdash ; The circles outside which the lines of force drawn in the figures of Pearson and Lee have to be replaced by other lines are given by the equation ( 19 ) , in which has the values , .
In fig. 1 of Plate 1 , would be negative ; this figure , in fact , relates to an epoch before the vibrations begin , and no part of it represents lines of force that are formed .
In fig. 2 of their Plate 1 , would be about of a wave-length , so that the circle is too small to be drawn .
fig. 3 of their Plate 1 , of a wave length , so that the front of the waves can ot be ished clearly from the innsr circular boundary of the figure .
Those parts only of the lines this figure lie between the i1mer circular boundary and a circle of radius are actual lines of force at the instant in quest Figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 of should , therefore , be omitted .
In the remaining figures of Plate 1 , and in figs. 9 , 10 and 11 of Plate 2 , parts only of the lines of force that are drawn are actual lines of force at the corl.esponding instants during 82 Prof. A. E. H. Love .
The )ancing Front of the [ May 9 , the vibrations .
These parts lie within the circles obtained from ( 19 ) by giving to the values , , and the corresponding instants are period ) .
The corresponding lines of force outside these circles are given by the equation in which has the .
These are the curves drawn in fig. A above .
remaining figures ( 12\mdash ; 56 ) of PIates 2--7 are unafl.ected by the conditions that hold at the front of the waves .
The figures by which Pearson and Lee 's figs. 4\mdash ; 11 of their Plates 1 and 2 should be replaced are the fignres nnmbered 4\mdash ; 11 on Plates accompanying this paper .
In these figures the fine oontin uous circle represents the wave-front at the time .
The discontinuity of the field at the wave-front is shown by the change of direction of the lines of force at this circle .
Those lines of force which are determined by putting equal to , and , are shown by the heavy dotted , heavy co1ltinuo/ ls , fine dotted , and fine continuous lines pectively .
The dotted circles that lie within the fine continuous circle are curves at which vanishes , or the electric force has no radial componeno .
A surface travels outwards at a varying rate so as to lie within the wave-front and to tend to overtake it as increases .
This is shown by the inner dotted circles in figs. 5\mdash ; 8 , and by the outer dotted circles which in figs. 9\mdash ; 11 lie within the fine continuous circle .
It appears that no spherical surface of the set given by is the front of the advancing wave-train , but that one of these surfaces tends to coincidence with this front as the wave-train advances .
The discontinuity of the electromagnetic field may also be shown in a manner by tracing curves to represeIlt at particular instants the values of the transverse component of the electric force , which correspond with all values of / ; the distance of a point from the oscillator .
Considel points in the equatorial plane of the oscillator , for which .
The form of function of is determined by the equations when , and ' FIG. 5 .
/ / / / FIG. 6 .
' / / / / , Love .
FIG. 1 Front of waves after two periods . .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 74 , FIG. 2 .
ront of waves after three periods .
of waves after thirteen periods .
1904 .
] Train of Waves Oscillator .
when : Figs. 1\mdash ; 3 of Plate 6 , esent ptrts of the curves , of which is ordinate .
is abscissa , at illstants which are the ends of the second , third , and thirteenbh pel'iods from the beginning of the vibrations .
The of the curves in figs. 1 , which are very oscillator , are omitted , , iu the curves , the which lie beyonld the ncing wave-frotlts are from the clXiS of abscissae .
In figs. 1 and 2 , drawn , A given the value , , the the previous discussion .
In fig. 3 A given the .
The curve in fig. 3 has ) for of between .
In each the tel.minal point of the curve towards the right represents the value of at the , -front the instant in questio1l .
the the m values of as the of them from the oscillator increases , as is shown in figs. 1 and This is duc to the ponderance of the factor when is small .
VheIl the front of the train of waves has travelled over as few as three Wttve-lengths , this tendency is already checked by the tendency of the ctor c to increase with , as is seen in fig. 2 , where the last imnm is ( dmost ctly equal to the previous ximum .
When the front of the train of waves has travelled over number of , the maxima and minima near the from exceed those behind the front , as is shown in fig. 3 , where there is it increase in the maxima and valnes the front of the of waves is approached .
A compaliso1l of figs. 1 with each other shows the diminution of the the places as time goes on .
This is due to the mping of the tionS by radiation .
The same coml ) arison shows also the minima near the front of the train of do not sufl.er diminutio1l to the same exte1lt , the hing is shown by fig. 3 with these , vance being made for the diliolclcs of fact , the the front of the suffers dinlinntion throngh divergence o1lly , for the factor the value unity at the of the , when , the value of the front is very 1letll'ly equal to - so that it is nearly proportional to * In the work is isil e for curves in sotue of the alithmetical v ork of paper , I the good tune to secure collaboration of Mr. J. W. SlIarpc , erlV 1 of ville t aius College , Cambridge , who made the no essary ctiollS .
is much more omplete t it would have been ithout his

