II .
" On Clinant Geometry , as a means of expressing the General Relations of Points in a Plane , realizing Imaginaries , reconciling Ordinary Algebra with Plane Geometry , and extending the Theories of Anharmonic Ratios .
" By ALEXANDER J. ELLIS , B.A. , F.C.P.S. Communicated by ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. Received January 28 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) The serious difficulties presented by " imaginaries " in plane geometry arise from treating the " principle of signs " as a matter of convention , and not as a particular case of a general operation , here termed a clinant , which consists in altering the length of a line in a given ratio , and rotating it through a given angle .
As the calculus of clinants furnishes a geometrical representation for every algebraical result , imaginaries disappear , and there is no longer any apparent disagreement between analysis and geometry .
Many theories , as , for example , those of anharmonic ratios , hitherto only established for points on a straight line , are also easily extended by means of clinants to embrace any points upon a plane .
The object of the present paper is to establish and illustrate these facts .
For this purpose it is divided into three distinct but closely connected parts .
Part I. shows that clinants obey the same laws of calculation as ordinary algebraical expressions , and explains their notation and geometrical construction .
This is illustrated by the solution of the problem of the determinate section generalized , and by a geometrical explanation of " imaginary " trigonometrical functions , applied to the discovery of the " imaginary " double rays in an homography .
Part II .
establishes the theory of stigmatics .
An index point , supposed to move from any origin into every point on a plane , is accompanied by one or more satellite points , termed stigmata , the relative position of the stigmata and index at any time being dependent on the relative position of the index and origin , according to some assigned law .
The locus of the stigmata , corresponding to each path of the index , forms a stigmatic curve .
The aggregate of these curves constitutes a stigmatic , which therefore consists of points conjugated with each other according to a characteristic law , ulti mately expressible by an equation between the clinant of the line connecting the index with the origin and the clinant of the line connecting the stigma and the index .
By elimination between two such equations , the common stigmata ( systigmata ) of two stigmatics , and by the condition of equal roots their coalescent systigmata , or homostigmata , may be determined .
These systigmata and homostigmata include , as particular cases , the points of " real " and " imaginary " intersection and contact of algebraical curves .
These generalities are illustrated by a consideration of the general stigmatic straight line and the central stigmatic circle .
The stigmatic straight line consists of stigmatic curves similar to the paths of the index , and their systigmata are the " double points " of similar figures .
The stigmata of a stigmatic circle are always harmonically conjugated with the extremities of its axis ( with which they always lie either on the same straight line , or the circumference of the same circle ) , and hence form an " involution " of points on a plane .
The construction of the systigmata and homostigmata of a stigmatic straight line , and stigmatic circle , furnishes a complete geometrical explanation and realization of the " imaginary intersections " of straight lines , with " real " and " imaginary " circles , " imaginary tangents " to such circles , and their polars and radical axes and common chords .
Part III .
contains an extension of the theories of anharmonic ratios from points on straight lines to any points in a plane , and explains and constructs the homography and involution of.such systems of points , with their double points , &amp;c. Constant reference is made throughout this part to M. Chasles 's 'Geometrie Superieure , ' to show how his fundamental theories may be interpreted as conclusions in clinant geometry , to explain all cases of " imaginaries , " and to establish the fact that " real " and " imaginary " points are only two very particular cases of the general theory of conjugated points .
The whole memoir forms an introduction to a new and practical geometrical calculus , including and interpreting all analytical investigations on plane geometry .

