414 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
characters of the condition .
The details of the results will be given in a fuller paper dealing with the subject .
I was prevented from inquiring thoroughly into the phenomenon when it was first met with ; but in the course of the present summer and autumn the investigation has been systematically undertaken .
I will conclude this preliminary note by adding that throughout the observations the animal 's respiration remains apparently unaffected by the stimuli effective to produce the various reflexes and inhibitions such as above described .
The respiration is tranquil , rather deep , regular , and often somewhat frequent .
The animal in all my experiments has been completely blind , but a sharp conjunctival reflex exists .
The knee jerks are elicitable but are not exaggerated .
The tonus of the sphincters appears about normal .
The pulse is full , regular , and fairly frequent .
I have not at present succeeded in evoking the cataleptoid reflex by simply placing the limb in the desired posture .
In applying the term cataleptoid to these reflexes , I do so because the reflexes recall , in some respects , strikingly certain phases of hypnotic condition , by some writers distinguished as cataleptic , and because the strict significance of the prefix implies a steady maintenance of possession subsequent to seizure , and is therefore peculiarly applicable here , whether these reflexes be or be not allied to hypnotic catalepsy .
" On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
Third Note .
" By 0 .
S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Holt Professor of Physiology , University College , Liverpool .
Received December 29 , 1896 , \#151 ; Read January 21 , 1897 .
In a former number* of these ' Proceedings ' attention was drawn to a particular form of correlation existing between the activity of antagonistic muscles .
In it , one muscle of an antagonistic couple is , it was shown , relaxed in accompaniment with active contraction of its mechanical opponent .
The instance then cited was afforded by certain of the extrinsic muscles of the eyeball , but I had previously noted indications of a like arrangement in studying the reflex actions affecting the muscles at the ankle-joint of the frog,4 and it seemed probable that the kind of co-operative co-ordination demonstrated for the ocular muscles might be of extended application and occurrence in various motile regions of the body .
The observations to be mentioned below do actually extend this kind of reciprocal innervation * Vol. 52 .
April , 1893 .
Sherrington , f Foster 's * Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 13 , 1892 .
On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic 415 to the muscles of antagonistic position acting about certain joints of the limbs .
If transection of the neural axis be carried out at the level of the crura cerebri in , e.g. , the cat , there usually ensues after a somewhat variable interval of time a tonic rigidity in certain groups of skeletal muscles , especially in those of the dorsal aspect of the neck and tail and of the extensor surfaces of the limbs .
The details of this condition , although of some interest , it is unnecessary to describe here and now , except in so far as the extensors of the elbow and the knee are concerned .
These latter affect the present subject .
The extensors of the elbow and the knee are generally in strong contraction , but altogether without tremor and with no marked relaxations or exacerbations .
On taking hold of the limbs and attempting to forcibly flex the elbow or knee a very considerable degree indeed of resistance is experienced , the triceps brachii and quadriceps extensor cruris become , under the stretch which the more or less effectual flexion puts upon them , still tenser than before , and on releasing the limb the joints spring back forthwith to their previous attitude of full extension .
Despite , however , this powerful extensor rigidity , flexion of the elbow may be at once obtained with perfect facility by simply stimulating the toes or pad of the fore foot .
When this is done the triceps enters into relaxation and the biceps passes into contraction .
If , when the reflex is evolved , the condition of the triceps muscle is carefully examined , its contraction is found to undergo inhibition , and its tenseness to be broken down synchronously with and indeed very often accurately at the very moment of onset of reflex contraction in the opponent prehrachial muscles .
The guidance of the flexion movement of the forearm may therefore be likened to that used in driving a pair of horses under harness .
The reaction can be initiated in more ways than one , electrical excitation of a digital nerve or mechanical excitation of the sensory root of any of the upper cervical nerves may be employed ; I have seen on one occasion a rubbing of the skin of the cheek of the same side effective .
Similarly in the case of the hind limb .
The extensor muscles of the knee exhibit strong steady non-tremulent contraction under the appropriate conditions of experiment .
Passive flexion of the knee can only be performed with use of very considerable force , the quadriceps becoming tight as a stretched string .
The application of hot water to the hind foot then elicits , nevertheless , an immediate flexion at knee and hip , during which not only are the flexors of those joints thrown into contraction , but the extensors of the knee joint are simultaneously relaxed .
Electric excitation of a digital nerve or of the internal saphenous nerve anywhere along its course will also initiate the reflex .
The same relaxation of existing contraction in the extensors can 416 On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
be obtained by electrical excitation of the tract in the crura cerebri , when , as sometimes happens , that excitation evokes flexion at elbow or at knee .
This and the previous fact which evidences that the result is obtainable after complete removal of the whole cerebrum bear out the view arrived at in my former paper that for this reciprocal and , as I believe , elementary co-ordination , it is not essential that " high level " centres ( Hughlings Jackson ) be employed .
I incline to think , however , that this kind of co-ordination at elbow and knee is probably largely made use of in movements initiated via the cerebral hemispheres as well as in the lower reflexes , on the observation of which the present Note is based .
This conclusion is indicated by its occurring in response to excitation of the pyramidal fibres in the crura .
In the case of the reciprocal innervation of antagonistic ocular muscles I was able to prove that it took place even in " willed movements .
" It seems , in view of what has been shown above , legitimate to extend that result to the additional examples afforded by elbo.w-joint and knee .
Regarding the innervation of the triceps and quadriceps extensor cruris , it is interesting to note that these muscles , which are of all among the limb muscles particularly difficult to provoke to action by local spinal reflexes , are the very ones which , when the level of the transection is pontial or prepontial , exhibit tonic contraction the most markedly .
The well-known and oft-corroborated Sanders-Ezn phenomenon of inaccessibility of the extensors of the knee to spinal reflex action has , as I have recently shown , certain limitations , but at the same time so long as the transection is spinal\#151 ; even when carried out so as to isolate not merely a portion of , but the whole , spinal cord entire from bulb to filum terminale\#151 ; does apply very strictly to excitations arising in its own local region proper .
And the spinal reflex relations of the triceps brachii in this respect , as pointed out elsewhere , somewhat resemble those of the distal portion of the quadriceps extensor of the leg .
Alteration of the site of transection from infrabulbar to suprabulbar levels works a curious change in this .
The Sanders-Ezn phenomenon then becomes subject to striking contravention .
I have , after the higher transection , several times seen excitation of the hind foot itself provoke unilateral ideolateral extension of knee , a result incompatible with the Sanders-Ezn rule even under the limitations of ideolaterality , \amp ; c. , which I consider must be attached to it .
And similarly with the triceps at the elbow .
The difference between the accessibility of the quadriceps to reflex action after infrabulbar and after suprabulbar transection may , however , be less abrupt than it appears at first sight , and a superficial rather than a fundamental distinction .
When extensor rigidity has ensued at elbow and knee after suprabulbar transection , the reflex excitability of triceps brachii and quadriceps cruris seems in a man- On Cheirostrobus , a new Type of Fossil Cone .
417 ner as difficult as in the presence of exclusively spinal mechanisms .
The reflex inhibitions the subject of this Note show , however , that the accessibility is not really greatly or even at all altered ; the nexus is maintained , but the conduction across it is signalised by a different sign , minus instead of plus .
The former , to find expression , must predicate an already existent quantity of contraction\#151 ; , to take effect upon .
It seems likely enough that even when the transection is infrabulbar and merely spinal mechanisms remain in force , the same nexus obtains , but that then that background of tonic contraction is lacking , and that lacking the play of inhibitions remains invisible , never coming within the field of any ordinary method of observation .
Under the conditions adopted in my experiments , various other reflex actions , that seem probably examples of this same kind of coordination , can be studied , for instance , a sudden depression and curving downward of the stiffly elevated and tonically up-curved tail which can be elicited by a touch upon the perineum .
But with these and also with other details regarding the reflexes at elbow and knee I hope to deal more fully in a paper to which the experiments recorded here are contributory .
" On Clieirostrobus , a new Type of Fossil Cone from the Calci-ferous Sandstone .
" By D. H. Scott , M.A. , Pli .
D. , F.R.S. , Hon. Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received December 29 , 1896\#151 ; Bead January 21 , 1897 .
The Peduncle .
The first indication of the existence of the remarkable type of fructification about to be described , was afforded by the study of a specimen in the Williamson collection , from the well-known fossili-ferous deposit at Pettycur , near Burntisland , belonging to the Calci-ferous Sandstone Series at the base of the Carboniferous formation .
This specimen is a fragment of stem , of which seven sections are preserved in the collection.* Its discoverer thought it might possibly belong to the Lepidostrobus found in the same bed .
" If so , " he adds , " it has been part of the axis of a somewhat larger strobilus than those described .
" f A detailed examination of the structure of this specimen convinced me that it is essentially different from any Lepidodendroid axis , and is , certainly , a new type of stem .
J * The cabinet-numbers are 539\#151 ; 545 .
+ Williamson , " Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
" Part III .
* Phil. Trans./ L872 , p. 297 .
t A short account of this specimen was given by me before the Botanical Section of the British Association at the Liverpool meeting , 1896 .

