XXI .
Eclises of the Satellites of yJpiter , observed by John Goldingham , Esq. F. R. S. and under his Superintendence , at 2iadras , in the East Indies .
Read June 3o , 18o08 THE following eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter , were observed with achromatic telescopes , by DOLLON : D , of three and half feet focal length , and magnifying power between 70 and 80 ; having been constructed more immediately for this purpose , for which they were exceedingly well calculated in all respects .
An astronomical clock , with gridiron pendulum , and dea beat , regulated by transits of the sun and stars , was used for the time ; which was deduced from the transit of the sun nearest the eclipse , and verified by the one immediately preceding or following .
The circumstances under which the eclipses were observed are noted ; from these may be inferred , how far the results are to be depended upon : those observed with the " air clear and the planet high , " are the most satisfactory and valuable , nothing to the contrary being afterwards expressed .
The longitude of the place , by numerous observations of various descriptions , is 511 : e ' : 1 or 80 ?
: 18 ' : o " east of Greenwich : by comparing this with the numbers in the last column , the difference of the tables will be obtained .
11 U14Q i2 , - , _j ZI c The greater number of these eclipses were not visible at Greenwich , but have been found very useful , when correspondent observations have been taken in India .
Persons .
not much in the habit of observing these eclipses , but desirous of obtaining as much correct information from their observations as possible , may find the following general remarks of use .
A correct difference of longitude , it would appear , is not to be expected , by comparing the time of observation with that in the tables ; it therefore becomes necessary to have a correspondent observation to compare with , or some satisfactory observations taken under a known meridian , about the time ; from ' which the errors of the tables may be found .
Correspondent observations , should , however , be obtained if possible : but it must not be supposed , that even these will give a correct difference of longitude , unless observed at both places , under the like favourable circumstances , and with telescopes of the same powers .
The air being clear ; the planet so high as to be out of the thick atmosphere , and to make the position easy ; the telescope sheltered from the wind , and steady ; neither moonlight nor twilight , and the .
satellite not near the body of the planet : An eclipse observed under such circumstances , will , I apprehend , be as perfect as it well can be ; and a correspondent observation taken under the like circumstances , will give a correct difference of longitude of the two places , provided the eclipse be observed with telescopes of the same powers .
Taking the eclipses in the following tables , observed under these favourable circumstances as the standard , and comparing their results as given in the last column , with those Tt , or the O:thers , it W'il bedf:rund ; how much the , latter .
are affected , by the eclipses having been Iobserved when the atnlos pl ere : Was hazy y , 'or the'planet very .
lox , during twilight , or wh}i.n the mooL was near thepllaet ; or the satellite not far fromhithe body of Jupiter ; and that even if correspondent obs$ervations had been taken , under favourable circlmstances , at a known meridian , the difference of longitude given by the ci6mparison would have been far from correct : the same eclipse observed at two places , under similar unfavourable circumrstances , would possibly give a result near the truth ; as the observations at both places would be affected in the same way , but probably not in an equal degree , as it is not likely there would be exactly the same degree of haze , the same strength of twilight , &amp;c. &amp;c. at both places ; and therefore those observations taken lunder the same favourable circumstances can only be relied upon with certainty .
It may not be an easy matter to have telescopes at both places of precisely the same powers for these observations : at Madras we had two telescopes in use , constructed at the same time , in appearance precisely alike , and intended by DOLLOND to have been so in all respects ; yet on repeated trials , one was found to have a decided advantage of several seconds over the other , showing the emersions sooner , and the immersions later by that quantity .
In order to do away the errorarising from a difference in the powers of telescopes , immersions and emersions should be observed at both places ; the difference of longitude will be as much greater than it ought to be by one series as less by the other , but the medium will be the correct difference of longitude of the places : it is possible also there may be some difference in the eyes of s^sobservers , any error which may arise -from this source will also be done away by this method .
Hence it would appear , that in order to obtain a correct difference of longitude of two places from correspondent eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter , the circumstances at both places should be similar and favourable ; and that the telescopes should have equal powers , or that both immersions and emersions should be observed , which indeed ought always to be done , where time will admit : also , that the circumstances being favourable at one place and not so at the other , a result very different from the truth will be obtained ,

