II .
" On a Property of Curves which fillfil the condition d2 + 0 .
" By W. J. MACQUORN RANKINE , C.E. , LL. D. , F.R.SS .
L. &amp; E. Received April 9 , 1867 .
1 .
In a paper " On Stream-Lines , " published in the Philosophical Magazine for October 1864 , I stated , and , in a Supplement to the same paper , published in the Philosophical Magazine for January 1865 , I proved the proposition that " all waves in which molecular rotation is null begin to break when the two slopes of the crest meet at right angles .
" 2 .
I have now to state the purely geometrical proposition of which that mechanical proposition is a consequence .
If a plane curve which fulfils the condition d+ =0 cuts itself in a double point , it does so at dx2 dy2 rizht angles .
3 .
The following is the demonstration .
It is well known that the inclination of any plane curve to the axes at an ordinary point is given by the equation d dx +d dy=0 ; dx die also that at a double point §§ and d both vanish , so that the inclinations dx die of the two branches to the axes are given by the two roots of the quadratic equation d. d2 +2 da .
dx die + Jr dy2 = ; dx2 dx die die whence it follows that the product of the two values of die , which are the d2 two values of the tangent of the inclination to the axis of x , is = dx .
In d2 dy2 a curve which fulfils the before-mentioned condition , the value of that product is -1 ; and when such is the case with the product of the tangents of two angles , the difference of those angles is a right angle ; therefore the two branches cut each other at right angles .
Q.E.D. 4 .
The proposition just demonstrated is so simple and so obvious , that pials , corresponds homologically with that which , as a general rule , is most persistent in ; the typical diphyodonts , including Man , viz. the posterior milk-molar , replaced by the posterior permanent premolar .
I was at first disposed to think it must have been known and published previously ; and had I not been assured by several eminent mathematicians that it had not been previously published to their knowledge , I should not have ventured to put it forth as new .
Supplement to the preceding Paper .
Received April 23 , 1867 .
Professor Stokes , D.C.L. , has pointed out to me an extension of the preceding theorem , viz. that at every multiple point in a plane curve which fulfils the condition d2 ' + d=0 , the branches make equal angles with dx2 die ' each other ; so that , for example , if n branches cut each other at a multiple point , they make with each other 2n equal angles of - .
n The following appears to me to be the simplest demonstration of the extended theorem .
At a point where n branches cut each other the following equation is fulfilled by all curves : ( dx + die ) 9O .
Let 0 be the angle made by any branch with the axis of x ; then cos 0 d-+ sin 0d = O. ( dx die But in a curve which fulfils the equation d2+ d =0 , we have dx2 dy ' d , _l d die dx whence it follows that in such a curve the equation of a multiple point of n branches is { ( cos 0+ - .
sin 0 ) =0 .
Choose for the axis of xa tangent to one of the branches at the multiple point .
Then it is evident that the preceding equation is satisfied by the 2n values of 0 corresponding to the 2nth roots of unity , that is to say , by =0 , 7r 27r &amp;c. , ( 2n1)7 .
0= 0 , *nnn therefore the n branches make with each other 2n equal angles of - .
Q.E.D. n 469

