40 Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , This commonalty furnishes a strong argument in favour of the ; suggestion that the aurora line is the remnant of the manganese , fluting , for it is practically certain that the fluting seen in the spectra of meteor-swarms is due to manganese .
Further , in the aurora the line which I have ascribed to the manganese fluting is associated with other lines and flutings , and it is also associated with the same lines and flutings in the spectra of meteor-swarms .
These again , it is important to note , are exactly the lines and flutings which are brightest in the spectra of meteorites in the laboratory at the temperature at which the manganese fluting is best visible .
These shortly are the reasons why I suggested that further enquiry was necessary on this point , and the importance of Dr. Huggins 's observation is therefore very great .
] IY .
" The Accurate Determination of Carbonic Acid and Moisture in Air .
" By J. S. Haldane , M.A. , M.B. , and M. S. Pembrey , Pell Exhibitioner of Christ Church , Oxford .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , Oxford .
) Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received April 8 , 1889 .
V. " On the Spectrum , Visible and Photographic , of the Great Nebula in Orion .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received April 11 , 1889 .
[ Plate 1 .
] I have added the name of Mrs. Huggins to the title of the paper , because she has not only assisted generally in the work , but has repeated independently the delicate observations made by eye .
In the year 1882 I had the honour to lay before the Royal Society a note on the photographic spectrum of this nebula , in which I described a new bright line in the ultra-violet , to which I gave a wave-length of about 3730 .
In addition to this new line , the lines of hydrogen , H/ 3 and Hy , which I had discovered by eye in my early observations on the visible spectrum , were to be seen upon the plate .
On account of the faintness of the object the slit had been made rather wide , and for this reason the character of the line and its position , as I stated in the paper , could not be ascertained with the accuracy which I desired .
On the 5th February , 1888 , a photograph of the spectrum of this 1889 .
] On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion .
41 nebula was obtained with a narrow slit ; the same apparatus , so far as the essential parts , which were described in my paper on the " Photographic Spectra of the Stars , " * being employed .
In this photograph , in addition to the strong line about X 3730 , a pair of less conspicuous lines is seen on the less refrangible side of the strong line .
The continuous spectra due to the two of the four bright stars of the Trapezium which fell upon the slit are present .
Across these continuous spectra at least four groups of bright lines can be seen , of which the greater number cau be traced into the nebula for some little distance from the stellar spectra .
It is scarcely necessary to state the importance of this observation as showing that these stars of the Trapezium are not merely optically connected with the nebula , but are physically bound up with it , and are very probably condensed out of the gaseous matter of the nebula .
This observation would seem also to show that the nebula , as a whole , may not be at a distance from us greater than that which we should attribute to such stars , if they occurred alone in the heavens .
The first group , of six lines , occurs between X 4116 and 4167 .
The lines of this group do not extend far from the continuous star spectra , with the exception of two lines .
These can be seen faintly in another photograph taken in 1889 .
Beyond there is a fainter group , probably of four lines a little beyond h. I am pretty sure that these lines extend into the nebula .
The third group from X 3896 to 3825 , of which I have endeavoured to measure ten lines , is faint , but here there is no doubt that the same lines are present in the adjoining nebular matter .
There are two lines a little more refrangible than the strong line seen in 1882 , at about X 3709 and X 3699 .
I have a suspicion , of a faint group about this place , and also of another group on the less refrangible side of G. I shall discuss further on the probable chemical significance of these lines .
The lines of this photograph are shown in Spectrum No. 1 of the folding Plate .
During the time that Orion was favourably situated for observation in the season of 1888 and in that of the present year , the unusual continuance of bad weather has made it impossible for me to give so complete an account of the spectrum of the nebula in the photographic region as a few really fine nights would have enabled me to do .
However , on February 28th of the present year I obtained another photograph , the slit being very narrow , which gives some more new information of the nature of its spectrum .
I was astonished on looking at the photograph not to see the strong line about X 3730 , which was by far the most conspicuous feature of the photograph taken in 1888 .
The pair of lines near it on the less refrangible side , * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1880 , p. 672 .
Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , which I found for the first time in 1888 , are present ; and on a further scrutiny of the plate I discovered two other pairs of lines , most probably rhythmically connected with them , in the still more refrangible region , the last pair , accompanied by a third line , being near the ultra-violet limit of ex-terrestrial light.* I was also able to see faintly two of the bright lines which I have described as present across the continuous spectra of the brighter stars of the Trapezium in my photograph of 1888 .
It is not quite certain whether these very faint and short lines are really due to the matter of the nebula proper , or have come upon the plate in consequence of the stars of the Trapezium having fallen accidentally upon the slit for a time too short to impress the continuous part of their spectra .
Ho trace of a continuous spectrum can be seen upon the plate , but these lines in the plate of 1888 do extend beyond the continuous spectra of the stars of the Trapezium .
In the diagram which follows I have indicated the positions of the slit upon the nebula relatively to the Trapezium and the well-known three stars near it , for the photographs of 1882,1888 , and 1889 .
I regret extremely that bad weather has made it impossible for me to work out the circumstances on which depended the disappearance of the strong line about A , 3730 .
Both the photographs which show this line include two stars of the Trapezium , and it may possibly be that this strong line is associated with the groups near it in the spectra of the stars , and may therefore come out in those parts of the nebula only which are more condensed .
A few photographs with the slit differently placed upon the nebula would doubtless have thrown light upon this point .
The suggestion presents itself strongly that the mottled and broken-up character of the nebular matter , shown in Lord Rosse 's drawing from eye observations , and much more strikingly brought out in the recent photographs of Mr. Common and Mr. Roberts , may be connected with differences of spectrum in the photographic region , though in the visible region there is no known alteration of the spectrum of the four bright lines , except , it may be , some small differences of relative brilliancy of the lines .
Until next winter we cannot go beyond the new information which these photographs give to us .
On the plate of the photograph of 1889 two pairs of spectra for comparison were taken:\#151 ; two spectra , one above and one below the nebular spectrum , of burning magnesium ; and two spectra , similarly placed , of the light of the sky .
From the photographs of 1888 taken with a narrow slit , the position which I gave in 1882 to this line is shown to be , as I expected from the wide slit then used , approximate only .
I find from the later photograph that the wide slit had caused the strong * " On the Limit of Solar and Stellar Light in the Ultra-violet Part of the Spectrum .
" .
Infra , p. 133 .
On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula Orion .
Photograph of 1882 .
Phohograph oj 1888 .
Photograph o_f 1889 . . .
line to unite with a line near it , and that in 1882 I measured the middle of the broad band produced by the union of the wide images of two lines .
Its position is about six tenth-metres more refrangible .
It does not therefore agree , as I then suggested , with the hydrogen line \#163 ; in my spectra of white stars .
A statement of the position of this line relatively to the magnesium-flame triplet will be given further on , when I come to discuss the comparison of this spectrum with that of the nebula .
Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , The position of the pair of lines a little less refrangible than this strong line , seen with it in the photograph of 1888 , and present without the strong line in the photograph of 1889 , and the positions of the two other more refrangible pairs , presumably connected with the first pair , are given in the following table :\#151 ; 1st pair about . .
f X 3752-0 \ 37410 2nd pair about .
f 3285-0 1 3275-0 Line at about ... 3060-0 3rd pair about .
f 3053-0 [ 3047-0 These three pairs of lines are shown in Spectrum No. 3 of the Plate .
In both photographs I suspect the indications of other lines , which are too faint to permit any certain conclusion to be formed about them , whether they are true lines , or imperfections only of the film .
[ The continuous spectra of the stars of the Trapezium can he seen on the plate from about F to X 3574 ; but they are very faint beyond X 3660.\#151 ; May 7 .
] ' The Visible Spectrum .
a. Brightest line.\#151 ; In 1872 , * I stated as the result of numerous direct comparisons of this line with the brightest line in the spectrum of nitrogen that the nebular line was " sensibly coincident with the middle of the less refrangible line of the double line of nitrogen .
" To avoid repetition I will call this line Nj .
Except where it is otherwise stated , I use this line of nitrogen simply as a fiducial point in the spectrum , without any reference to its chemical significance .
In a still more critical examination of the position of the nebular line for the purpose of determining whether there was any indication of relative motions of the gaseous nebul\#174 ; in the line of sight , I found some experimental difficulty from the circumstance that the nebular line is narrow and defined while Nx is nebulous .
I was fortunate to find a more suitable fiducial line of comparison in a narrow line of lead which falls almost upon the middle of Nj.f In December , 1872 , I compared this line directly with Nl5 and found it sufficiently near in position to serve as a fiducial line of comparison .
Six other gaseous nebulas were also examined , each on several * " On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion , \amp ; c. , " * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 20 , 1872 , p. 383 .
t " On the Motions of some of the Nebulae towards or from the Earth , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , '- vol ; 22,1874 , p. 252 .
1889 .
] On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula Orion .
nights , with the result that " in no instance was any change of relative position of the nebular line and the lead line detected."* In the simultaneous observation of the nebular line and the lead line it was found if the lead line was made rather less bright than the line of the nebula , the small excess of apparent breadth of this latter line appeared to overlap the lead line to a very small amount on its less refrangible side , so that the more refrangible sides of the two lines appeared to be in a straight line across the spectrum .
4 he closeness of position of the two lines was shown by the observation that when the line of the nebula passed across the field of the spectroscope , and the lead line was thrown in , the lead line was not seen , but only an increase in brightness of the nebular line .
By comparing the end of the nebular line near the Trapezium where it is refined to a point , I estimated that the difference of position of the middle of the lead line and that of the nebular line might be possibly from X 0000-2 to X 0000-3.t Some recent measures of the position of the lead line with the middle of show that the lead line is about X 0000T2 more refrangible .
These direct comparisons of the nebular line with the lead line confirmed , therefore , my former conclusion , that the brightest line in the gaseous nebulae is very near IS ] , when seen under a dispersion equal to nearly eight prisms of 60 , namely , 36 ' 25 from A to H. This result is based on direct comparisons , on twenty-four different nights , writh N ] or with the line of lead .
The wave-length of N ] has been determined by Kirchhoff , Tlialen , and by myself .
Watts ' reduction of my measure to wave-lengths is clearly not accordant with my measures of air lines immediately preceding and following this line .
I have therefore reduced my original measure to wave-lengths and find for N ] the value X 5004'5 .
Kirchhoff ... ... ... ... 5004'6 Thalen ... ... ... ... ... 5005 ' !
Thalen 's value is clearly too high , as Thalen gives for the lead line coincident nearly with Nj X 5004'6 , and N ] is seen on the more refrangible side of the solar iron line given by Angstrom as X 5004'9 .
In Angstrom 's map N ] is laid down on the more refrangible side of the iron line 5004-9 , at about 5004'5 .
The same position is given to N ] in Kirchhoff 's map .
I have made a new determination of the position of H ] , using the second spectrum of a grating 17,300 to the inch , relatively to the solar iron line at 5004"9 according to Angstrom .
The value came out X 5004"6 , which agi*ees with Kirchhoff 's value , * " On the Motions of some of the Nebulse towards or from the Earth , " ' Rov .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 22 , 1874 , p. 253 .
f Ibid. , p. 252 .
46 Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , and with Tbalen 's measure of the lead line which falls upon it , and also with the maps of Angstrom and of Kirchhoff .
The wave-length of the brightest nebular line may therefore be taken at from A 5004*6 to A 5004*8 ... ... ... ... ... .(1 ) .
The micrometric measures of this line , given by D'Arrest , Vogel , and Copeland , agree closely with this value .
D'Arrest's* mean value ... ... ... .
5004 Vogel 's " ... ... ... .
5004 Copeland'sf " ... ... ... .
5004 b.Second line.\#151 ; In 1872 , J I stated that I had found this line , by comparison with a line of barium and subsequently with an iron line , to have A wave-length of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... A 4957'0 ... .
( 2 ) .
D'Arrest 's mean value from micrometric measures A 4956'6 Copeland 's " " " .
4958'0 c. Third line.\#151 ; In my original paperS " On the Spectra of some of the Nebulae , " in 1864 , I showed , by direct comparison with hydrogen , that this line is undoubtedly the line of that gas at F of the solar spectrum .
This observation was afterwards repeated , j| and has been confirmed by the photographs of 1882 and 1888 .
The wave-length of this line is therefore A4860-7 ... ( 3 ) .
D'Arrest 's value from measures ... ... . .
4860'6 Copeland 's , , , , ... ... .
486D0 d. Fourth line.\#151 ; In 1872 , I stated that I had satisfied myself of the coincidence of this line with H7 , but , on account of its faintness , it is very satisfactory to find this observation of coincidence confirmed by the photographs taken in 1888 and 1889 .
There can be no doubt that this is a line of hydrogen , and that The wave-length therefore is ... ... ... ... ... .
4340'1 ... ... ... ... . .
( 4 ) .
Copeland 's mean value ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
4342-0 Dr. Copeland gives the measures of two still fainter lines which he has seen in this nebula , namely , one at A 5874 , possibly coincident * ' Undersogelser over de nebulose Stjerner .
' Copenhagen , 1872 , p. 23 .
.j- ' Monthly Notices , R.A.S. , ' vol. 48 , p. 361 .
$ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 20 , 1872 , p. 385 .
S ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1864 , p. 437 .
|| ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1868 , p. 545 .
T ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 20 , 1872 , p. 385 .
1889 .
] On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula Orion .
47 with D3 , and a line at A 4476 .
( See also Mr. Taylor , ' Monthly Notices , R.A.S. , ' vol. 49 , p. 125 .
) I defer the consideration of these and other faint lines which I have often suspected in the faint continuous spectrum of the nebula , as in consequence of the great strain upon the eyes from my recent direct comparison of the spectrum of the nebula with the spectrum of burning magnesium , I was not able during the very few fine nights when Orion was favourably situated to undertake an examination for these very faint lines .
Comparisons with the Magnesium-flame Spectrum .
In 1882 , Dr. Copeland in his paper on Schmidt 's Nova Cygni , * remarked in a footnote , " that it is worthy of note that this line ( A 5006*5 of burning magnesium ) almost absolutely coincides with the brightest line in the planetary nebulas .
" This line , namely , the bright edge of the first band in the magnesium-flame spectrum , is very near in position to the brightest nebular line .
We have seen that the wave-length of this line in the nebulae ( 1 ) is 5004*6 to 5004*8 ; now the wave-length of the end of the magnesium-flame band is 5006*5 , consequently it does not coincide with the nebular line but falls on the less refrangible side at a distance of A 0002 nearly from that line .
The wave-length of the termination of the magnesium-flame band is , as determined by\#151 ; Lecoq de Boisbaudran ... ... ... ... ... .
5006*0 Watts ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
5006*5 Living and Dewarf ... ... ... ... ... ... 5006*4 I have recently redetermined the position of the end of the band , by direct comparison with the solar iron line given by Angstrom at A 5006*58 .
My result places the magnesium-flame band line at A 5006*5 . . .
( 5 ) .
In a paper read before the Royal Society in 1887 , J Mr. Lockyer says :\#151 ; " Only seven lines in all have been recorded up to the present in the spectra of nebulae , three of which coincide with lines in the spectrum of hydrogen and three correspond to lines in magnesium .
The magnesium lines represented are the ultra-violet low-temperature line at 373 , the line at 470 and the remnant of the magnesium fluting at 500 , the brightest part of the spectrum at the temperature of the * * Copernicus , ' toI .
1 , p. 109 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , 1888 , p. 245 .
X " Researches on the Spectra of Meteorites : a Report to the Solar Physics Committee ; communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Committee , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 118 .
Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , bunsen burner .
" At page 137 ( loc.cit .
) Mr. Lockyer says :\#151 ; " In the nebulae we deal chiefly with lines seen in the spectrum of magnesium at the lowest temperature .
" In a later paper in 1888* Mr. Lockyer states :\#151 ; " In a paper communicated to the Royal Society on November 15th , 1887 , I showed that the nebulae are composed of sparse meteorites , the collisions of which bring about a rise of temperature sufficient to render luminous one of their chief constituents\#151 ; magnesium .
This conclusion was arrived at from the facts that the chief nebular lines are coincident in position with the fluting and lines visible in the bunsen burner when magnesium is introduced , and that the fluting is far brighter at that temperature than almost any other spectral line or fluting of any element whatever .
" Although the number of direct comparisons which I had made of the brightest line in the nebulae with Nj and with the lead line , not to speak of the accordant results of the micrometric measures of other observers , left great doubt in my mind whether this line could be coincident with " the remnant of the magnesium fluting at 500 , " really at 5006'5 , yet I thought it desirable to undertake the laborious task of comparing , with the necessary care and precautions , the nebular line directly , in the spectroscope attached to the telescope , with the spectrum of burning magnesium .
Arrangements were made by which the light from burning magnesium was thrown into the telescope from the side and then reflected down , under conditions similar with the light from the nebula , upon the slit of the spectroscope .
By this arrangement any flexure in the tube connecting the spectroscope with the telescope would affect both spectra alike .
The coincidence in position of the spectrum from burning magnesium with that of a heavenly body to which the telescope was so directed that its light fell upon the slit of the spectroscope , was tested with great care on several occasions by comparing the three bright lines of magnesium with the corresponding lines , \amp ; g , in the spectrum of the moon .
Indeed , to prevent any possible error in the observation of apparent want of coincidence of the nebular line , if the light from the burning magnesium should by an accident so come upon the slit as to bring its spectrum in a very minute degree on the less refrangible side of its true position relatively to the nebular line to be observed with it , the arrangement was purposely made that the lines of magnesium were seen to fall upon the corresponding dark lines at b in the moon , a very little on the more refrangible side of the middle of those lines .
This state of things would diminish a little the interval which should be seen between the nebular line and the edge of the * " Suggestions on the Classification of the various Species of Heavenly Bodies .
" * Eoy .
Sqc .
J ?
roc .
, ' vol. 44 , p. 21 .
1889 .
] On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion .
* magnesium-flame band , and so make the determination more difficult ; but if under such circumstances , the nebular line was seen on the more refrangible side of that of magnesium the observation would be much more trustworthy , for in the case of coincidence with magnesium the line would have appeared towards the opposite and less refrangible side of the magnesium line , broadening the magnesium line on this side .
I considered that the comparison could be made most satisfactorily by the complete superposition of the two spectra , that from burning magnesium being gradually reduced in brightness by the interposition of coloured glass screens , uutil the ground of the spectrum between the successive bright lines of the band of the magnesium-flame spectrum was sufficiently subdued to allow of the nebular line being seen upon it .
Under these circumstances , if the nebular line had the position which my direct comparisons and the micrometric observations of other observers assign to it , it would be seen as a bright line at a very small interval within the line ending the band , and to the observer the band would appear to commence with a double line .
This direct comparison was first successfully made on March 6 , 1889 .
The observations were made with the 15 " refractor belonging to the Royal Society .
The spectroscope used has two compound Grubb prisms , each with 5 square inches of base , and giving nearly twice the dispersion of a single prism of 60 ' , namely , 9 ' 20 ' from A to H ; and collimator and telescope of T25-inch aperture .
An eyepiece magnifying eighteen times was employed .
The nebular line was brought upon the cross-wires , and when carefully focussed and clearly seen , the light from burning magnesium was thrown in .
This observation is one of great difficulty , especially as the interval to be observed had been purposely reduced by causing the magnesium to fall , for the sake of the greater trustworthiness of the observations , on the more refrangible side of its true position .
Although I consider the results to be satisfactory , I prefer to say that I , and Mrs. Huggins independently , believed fully at the time that we saw the appeai'ance which all former observations of this line led me to expect , namely , the nebular line to fall within the termination of the magnesium band , and to form with the band-boundary a double line .
The relative positions of the two spectra are represented in the diagram across the page .
The line at the end of the magnesium band was then brought upon the cross-wires , without any attention being given to the nebular line ; when the burning magnesium went out , the nebular line was seen to be at a measurable distance to the left of the intersection of the wires , namely , on the more refrangible side .
When the object-glass of the telescope was covered , the magnesium band presented its usual appearance , namely , terminating in a single VOL. xlvi .
E Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , 1889 .
] On the Spectnim of the Great Nebula in Orion .
51 line .
These comparisons were repeated and confirmed generally on March 9 , March 11 , and March 16 .
On March 9 , a single successful comparison was made with a more powerful spectroscope , giving a dispersion equal to nearly eight prisms of 60 ' .
[ Comparisons have been made since with the planetary nebula in Hydra .
The short line of the nebula was found to fall within the termination of the magnesium band at about the small distance which corresponds to the known position of the two lines.\#151 ; April 26 .
] On all these nights the comparisons were repeated independently and fully confirmed by Mrs. Huggins .
These comparisons can be successfully imitated in the laboratory by directing a spectroscope of sufficient power to the line of lead which the nebular line is sufficiently near , the slit being narrow and the electrodes of lead near each other ; and then causing , with the necessary precautions , the light of burning magnesium to fall also upon the slit .
The lead line will be seen to fall within the end of the band , and to form with it a double line .
It may be mentioned in this place that this line of lead , and the iron line at 4957 at the position of the second nebular line , can be conveniently used in the laboratory in any chemical research on the nature of the nebulae .
Ho terrestrial line which does not fall almost exactly at these positions in the spectrum can have any claim to further consideration .
It might be suggested that the want of coincidence observed between the nebular line and the magnesium band , amounting to \ 0001 '9 nearly , might be due to a motion of translation of the nebula towards the earth .
The motion required to produce this shift of position is about sixty-seven miles in a second .
[ The earth 's motion at the time of comparison with the magnesium-flame band may be taken at about 17 miles in a second of recession from the nebula .
This motion would bring the nebular line nearer the red , and diminish the apparent interval between that line and the termination of the band .
If the nebula has a motion of approach , the earth 's recession would bring the line back again , to an extent corresponding to about 17 miles in a second , towards its true place.\#151 ; May 13 .
] I showed in my paper on this subject in 1874 , * that in the case of the Orion nebula and six other gaseous nebulae , namely , 4234 , 4373 , 4390 , 4447 , 4510 , 4964 , of Sir J. Herschel 's General Catalogue of Nebulae , ' " in no instance was any change of relative position of the nebular line and the lead line detected .
" We should have to resort , therefore , to the overwhelmingly improbable supposition that all * * Roy .
So .
Proc. , ' vol. 22 , p. 253 .
E 2 52 Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 .
seven nebulaa were approaching the earth with velocities such that , having respect to the earth 's motion at the different times of observation , they all gave a sensible shift corresponding to 67\#177 ; 15 miles in a second .
There is little doubt in my mind , therefore , from these comparisons , which , considering the strong evidence we possessed before of the relative positions of the nebular line and of the magnesium line , are strictly speaking supplementary and confirmatory evidence only , that this line of the gaseous nebulae is not produced by " the remnant of the magnesium fluting."* In the diagram on page 134 ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 ) , Mr. Lockyer represents this nebular line followed by fine lines , which gives it the appearance of a fluting similar to that of the magnesium band placed above .
I am unable to find in the paper any authority for this representation of the line .
In another placef Mr. Lockyer says : " On one / occasion , at Greenwich , it was recorded as a fluting in the spectrum of the nebula in Orion .
" Mr. Maunder 's words are :J " None of the * [ The following observations were made at Greenwich in 1884 on the motion of the nebula in the line of sight:\#151 ; " February 15 .
Mean of four observations , 31 miles of approach .
" Remarks : Measures purely tentative .
" February 18 .
Mean of four observations , 51 miles of approach .
" Remarks : The F line in the spectrum of the nebula was faint , very much fainter than the line at X 5005 .
The measures , therefore , are not trustworthy .
" March 10 .
With neither one nor two prism trains , after very careful direct comparison ( the light from the comparison tube being weakened until it could be compared directly with the light from the nebula ) , could any displacement be detected ; the coincidence of two spectra was evidently very close .
" March 12 .
Spectrum too faint for measures .
The hydrogen spectrum was brought down to almost exactly the same intensity as the light from the nebula , and direct comparison showed coincidence as complete as could be detected considering the faintness of the two spectra . . .
No part of the nebula which was sufficiently bright to show the pointer well on the 5005 line showed any marked displacement , but at a point a little preceding the Trapezium it was thought that the pointer did not seem perfectly central on the line but a little ( perhaps - , -\j .
certainly not more ) towards the red " ( ' Greenwich Spectroscopic and Photographic Results , ' 1884 ) .
Also in 1887 , six determinations on the same night .
" Oct. 25 .
Measured 37 *8 miles of approach .
8'3 " 7-1 " 38 -4 " 24-5 " 10 '8 " recession .
approach .
recession .
Estimated 24 miles of approach .
" 9 *3 " recession .
55 9 *3 \#187 ; 55 " 24-0 , , approach .
" 24*0 " " 9*3 " recession .
Remarks : Lines in nebula very faint and bisections very rough .
( ' Greenwich Spectroscopic and Photographic Results , 1887 ) .
May 13 .
] f Programme lloyal Society Soiree , May 9 , 1888 , p. 12 .
X 4 Greenv\icli Spectroscopic Results , ' 1884 , p. 5 .
1889 .
] On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula Orion .
lines " ( with two-prism train ) " are very sharp .
X 5005 showed a faint fringe mainly on the side nearer the blue .
" Mr. Maunder has recently sent a note to the Royal Astronomical Society , in which he explains that the observation was made with a second half-prism added to the half-prism spectroscope .
He says : " The three principal lines of the nebular spectrum were seen as very narrow bright lines , but none of them were perfectly sharp , each showed a slight raggedness at both edges ; but in the case of the line near X 5005 it was clear that this fringe , or raggedness , was more developed towards the blue than towards the red .
In the case of the other two lines , they were not bright enough for it to be possible to ascertain whether the fringes were symmetrical or not .
But X 5005 was clearly a single line .
There was no trace of any bright line , or series of bright lines , close to it on either side ; no trace of a fluting , properly so called .
The entire line , fringes and all , was only a fraction of a tenth metre in total breadth."* [ It should be noticed that the instrumental conditions under which Mr. Maunder observed showed the second and third line " not perfectly sharp , but with a slight raggedness at both edges."\#151 ; May 13 .
] My own observations of this line , since my discovery of it in 1864 , with different spectroscopes up to a dispersion equal to eight prisms of 60 ' , show the line to become narrow as the slit is made narrow , and to be sharply and perfectly defined at both edges .
As some importance attaches to the precise character of this line , I wrote to Professor H. C. Vogel for permission to quote the result of his experience , which has been nearly as long as my own , of the character of this line .
He says in his reply , dated 20th March , 1889 : " Beeile icli mich Ihnen mitzutheilen , dass meine langjahrigen Beobachtungen fiber die Spectra der Gas-Nebel mit den Ihrigen darin fibereinstimmen , dass die Nebellinie X 5004 schmal , scharf und nicht verwaschen ist .
Auch D'Arrest hat in seiner Unter-suchung fiber die Nebel-Spectra ( Kopenhagen , 1872 ) nicht erwahnt dass die hellste Nebellinie unscharf sei .
" Dr. Copeland permits me to quote the following sentences of a letter dated March 19 , 1889 :\#151 ; " Respecting the appearance of the line X 5004 in the spectrum of the Orion nebula , I may say that I have always drawn and seen it quite sharp and well defined on both edges .
About nine years ago I made a special effort to divide it , if joossible , with a large spectroscope in which the viewing telescope was 3 inches in aperture .
The lines were then seen as sketched .
" ( The diagram shows the nebular lines with sharply ruled lines for edges .
) " They were drawn by holding the note-book 10 inches from * ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' vol. 49 , 1889 , p. 308 .
Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , the left eye , in such a position that the image seen in the instrument with , the right eye was apparently projected on the paper .
If I had noticed any peculiarity about A , 5004 , it would certainly have been noted/ '* In an early observation of the dumb-bell nebula Professor Yogel , indeed ( ' Beobachtungen zu Bothkamp , ' p. 59 , 1872 ) , describes this line as less defined towards the violet side .
In a letter ( April 3 , 1889 ) Professor Yogel says this appearance of the line was probably due to a slit not sufficiently narrow .
He says that he re-examined this line in his observations with the great Yienna refractor , and that it did not then appear otherwise than defined and narrow .
The other line in the spectrum of the nebulae upon which Mr. Lockyer mainly relies for the presence of magnesium is the line shown in my photographic spectrum of 1882 , f and to which I assigned the wave-length of about 3730 .
Mr. Lockyer says of this line 4 " In the Bunsen as ordinarily employed the fluting at 500 far eclipses the other parts of the spectrum in brilliancy , and at this temperature , as already observed by Messrs. Liveing and Dewar , the ultra-violet line visible is that at 373 .
" Passing by a minor point , which Liveing and Dewar have already pointed out , S namely , that their observation was made at the higher temperature of burning magnesium , this statement is insufficiently complete , for what occurs at this part of the spectrum , and is characteristic of the magnesium-flame spectrum , is a triplet , of which the line given by Liveing and Dewar at about 3730 is the least refrangible member .
In the accompanying Diagram I give a representation of this triplet at the wave-lengths given by Liveing and Dewar , namely A 3730 , 3724 and 3720 .
In the photograph of 1888 , in which the strong line can be seen distinct from the lines near it , the line is found to be very near the middle line of the triplet .
I have therefore assigned to this line the position of about A 3724 .
This line appears pretty strong , and therefore if it were really one of the lines of the triplet , the other two members of the triplet should have appeared on the plate .
On one side of the star-spectra this line is a little broader than on the other * Mr. Taylor , late of the South Kensington Laboratories , observing at Sir Henry Thompson 's observatory in November , 1888 , says : " The 5001 line is by far the brightest in the spectrum .
It is never seen sharp , but with the narrowest slit always has a fluffy appearance , this being much more marked on the blue than on the red edge .
This line was most carefully examined for evidence of structure , but was always found to be single , and no decided evidence of fluting structure could be made out .
It may be that greater dispersion may show structure , but with the dispersion used here no structure could be seen .
" ' Monthly Notices B.A.S.* yol .
49 , p. 125 .
t * Hoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 33 , p. 425 .
J * Koy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43,1887 , p. 122 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44,1888 , p. 244 .
J 188\#171 ; \gt ; .
] On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion .
3740 3730 3720 3710 Nebula Line side , but as a similar appearance is presented by G , and the stronger of the lines of the group , it may arise from some optical or photographic cause .
The line at 8724 impresses me strongly as a single line , and there is certainly no trace of the first line of the triplet at 3730 .
The line appears to me stronger where it is upon the star-spectra .
As therefore there seems to be little doubt that the " remnant of the fluting at 500 " is not coincident with the brightest nebular line , and the next most characteristic group of this spectrum , the triplet at 3720 , 3724 , and 3730 , according to Living and Dewar , does not appear to be present in the photographs , we may conclude that the remarkable spectrum of the gaseous nebulse has not been produced by burning magnesium.* I should mention that Mr. Lockyer attributes one other line occasionally seen in the gaseous nebulae to the flame spectrum of magnesium , namely , a very faint line at about \ 4700 .
Now , according to my experience , it is only in the spark and arc that a line of magnesium appears at this place , a condition of the spectrum when the lines at b are very conspicuous , and the band at \ 5006'5 is usually absent .
When , however , the spark is taken in magnesium chloride , the band is present under some conditions , but the triplet at h is always bright .
I therefore consulted Professor Living , who * On the narrower basis of the magnesium spectrum only , Professors Living and Dewar point out that : " the appearance of a line in the position of the first band without any trace of the second band , which is nearly as bright as the first , and without any trace of the b group , is quite sufficient to create a suspicion of mistaken identity when Mr. Lockyer ascribes the sharp green line in the spectrum of nebula ) to this band of magnesia .
This suspicion will be strengthened when it is noticed that the line in question is usually in nebulse associated with the F line of hydrogen , if it be borne in mind that the spark of magnesium in hydrogen does not give the bands , and that the oxyhydrogen flame hardly produces them from magnesia when the hydrogen is in excess .
" ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , p. 245 .
) Mr. Taylor records a brightening of the continuous spectrum of the nebula at A. 5200 , which he suggests may be magnesium .
But this position is twenty-five units from that of the middle of the magnesium triplet at " 5 .
" ( ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' vol. 49 , p. 125 .
) Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , says : " I have never seen the line at A. 4703 in the spectrum of the magnesium flame .
As it is a conspicuous line in the arc and spark , we looked for it in the flame , but did not find it .
" With reference to the second nebular line at A 4957 , Mr. Lockyer says :* " The lines at 500 and 495 have been seen in the glow of the Dhurmsala meteorite when heated , but the origin of 495 has not yet been determined .
" And further ( at p. 135 ) : " I should add that the line at 495 makes its appearance much more rarely than the one at 500 in meteorite glows .
" In the diagram on the same page this line is represented as coincident with the nebular line .
The circumstance of a line appearing at 495 can scarcely be regarded , considering the very great number of spectral lines , as amounting to a presumption that the material to which it is due in the meteorite is the same as that present in the nebulae which gives the line at 4957 .
If it should be shown that the unknown substance in the meteorite gives rise to a line at the position of the nebular line , namely , A 4957 , in that case the observation would have sufficient importance to make it desirable to compare the spectrum of the meteorite directly with that of the nebula .
Lines Observed and Photographed the Spectrum of the Nebida .
Line measured by Dr. Copeland , probably D3 A 5874*0 Brightest line ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Second line ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Third line , H/ 3 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Fourth line , H7 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Line measured by Dr. Copeland ... ... ... . .
Strong line in photographs 1882 and 1888 about 3724*0 " 3709*0 " 3699*0 3752*0 3741*0 5004*6 to 5004*8 4957*0 4860*7 4340*1 4476*0 Line in photographs 1888 about Photograph 1889 .
, , f about 1st pair. .
\lt ; 2nd pair. .
^ Line at. .
3rd pair . .
^ r Photograph 1888 ... ... ... ... .
Lines across star spectra , 1st group ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
3285*0 3275*0 3060*0 3053*0 3047*0 4116*0 4123*0 4130*0 4142*0 4154*0 4167*0 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 133 .
1889 .
] On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula Orion .
57 Y " 3854-0 ( " approximate X 3998-0 J " 3988-0 ] " 39750 L " 3959-0 r .
, 3896-0 " 3887-0 3878-0 3870-0 " 3859-0 " 3848-0 " 3842-0 " 3832-0 " -3825-0 Chemical Significance of the Lines .
Until I can obtain more photographs taken on different parts of the nebula , I wish to be understood to speak on this point with much hesitation , and provisionally only .
We know certainly that two of the lines are produced by hydrogen .
The fineness of these lines points to a high temperature and condition of great tenuity of the hydrogen from which the light was emitted .
This condition of the hydrogen may give us a clue as to the probable interpretation of the other lines .
These may come from substances of very low vapour-density , and under molecular conditions which are consistent with a high temperature .
It is in accordance with this view that the recent measures of Dr. Copeland , since confirmed by Mr. Taylor ( cit.fi show with great probability that the line known as D3 , which has been supposed to indicate some substance of low vapour-density , which shows itself only at the hottest region of the sun , is present in the nebular spectrum .
The great simplicity of the three pairs of lines seen in the photograph of 1889 suggests a substance of a similar chemical nature .
If hydrogen can exist at half its usual vapour-density , with a molecule of one atom only , we might possibly expect to find it in some of these bodies , but at present we do not know what its spectrum would be in such a condition .
It may be possibly that it is in molecular states of our elements other than those we are acquainted with that we may have to look for an interpretation of some of the lines of these bodies .
[ With respect , to the groups of lines which cross the star spectra , any statements must also be provisional only .
These lines are distinct and fairly strong in the star spectra , and extend , some farther than others , into the adjoining nebular Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , matter .
Whether they are peculiar to these particular stars and the matter close about them , or whether they will be found everywhere in the nebula , or in certain parts of greater condensation only , can be known only from future photographs .
The first group shows some general agreements with a strong iron group , but there are also formidable discrepancies .
The position of the third group suggested the well known cyanogen group , especially as this group , beginning at X. 3883 , is the first to appear under the chemical conditions which might have been conceived to exist under circumstances of condensation.* Under these conditions this group appears alone in a photograph , without the less refrangible group , as was probably the case in the photograph I took of Comet II , 1881 .
I therefore took a photograph of an oxy-coal-gas flame , the coal-gas having passed through ammonia , and a magnesium-flame spectrum on the same plate for comparison .
On comparing this photograph with that of the nebula it was seen by eye , and afterwards confirmed by measurement , that the nebula group begins sooner by one strong line than the cyanogen group , and presents besides in the relative strength and grouping of the lines a distinctly different character .
The evidence appears to me to be against attributing these lines to cyanogen .
I took great pains to ascertain if the group of lines which accompanies the triplet of the magnesium-flame spectrum could be made to agree with the much longer group of lines in the nebula at this part of the spectrum .
Again , as in the case of the cyanogen group , the whole aspect of the grouping of lines is quite different .
The groups begin and end differently , and the relative strength of different parts of the group is not the same .
The great increase of strength which is seen in the middle of the magnesium group is not present at the corresponding part of the nebula group .
I do not think therefore there should be much weight given to the near positions of several individual lines of the two groups , which in the case of so close a grouping might well be accidental , especially as the wave-lengths can be but approximate only .
[ The strongest lines of the magnesium-flame group are those forming the triplet which appears also in the spark and the arc spectrum .
A nebular line is near the middle line of the triplet , but there are no lines corresponding to the other two lines of the triplet .
The other lines of the flame group are too faint to be expected to appear , unless the triplet at 3720\#151 ; 8730 were strong upon the plate .
\#151 ; May 13 .
] The three pairs of lines in the photograph of 1889 , which are * See Living and Dewar , ' Roy .
So .
Proc. , ' vol. 34 , 1883 , p. 128 .
1889 .
] On the Spectrum of the Great Nebula Orion .
doubtless rhythmically connected , appear to me to possess great interest , especially if it should come to be found from future photographs that these groups are characteristic of the most tenuous part of the nebula .
At present , I am not able to make any suggestion as to their chemical origin , but the suggestion presents itself that we may have to do with some molecule of low vapour-density .
The pair of lines on the more refrangible side of the line at \3724 , may possibly be connected with the state of the nebula as it exists in the neighbourhood of the stars.\#151 ; April 26 .
] General Conclusions .
It seems to me premature until we can learn more of the significance of the new groups of lines , and especially of their connexion with the nebular matter generally , or with certain condensed parts only , to express more than provisional suggestions as to the nature of these nebulae .
It may be that they represent an early stage in the evolutionary changes of the heavenly bodies .
As some physical importance , in the relation of these nebulae to each other , has been given to my inability , in consequence of insufficient optical means in my original observations in 1864 , to see all three of the bright lines in some faint nebulae , I may mention that in the case of one object , the Ring Nebula in Lyra , in which at that time the light appeared monochromatic , as only the brightest line could be certainly seen , as soon as lai'ger means were placed at my disposal by the loan of the Royal Society telescope in 1870 , I had no difficulty in seeing all three lines on any night of sufficient clearness .
There is little doubt that the same cause prevented me from seeing more than the brightest line in Nebula 4572 of Herschel 's ' General Catalogue .
' Yogel saw two lines.* These bodies may stand at or near the beginning of the evolutionai'y cycle , so far as we can know it .
They consist probably of gas at a high temperature and very tenuous , where chemical dissociation exists , and the constituents of the mass , doubtless , are arranged in the order of vapour-density .
As to the conditions which may have been anterior to this state of things , the spectroscope is silent .
We are free , so far as the spectroscope can inform us , to adopt the hypothesis which other considerations may make most probable .
On Dr. Croll'st form of the impact theory of stellar evolution , which begins by assuming the existence of stellar masses in motion , and considers all subsequent evolutional stages to follow from the energy of this motion converted into heat by the collision of two such bodies , these nebulae would represent the second stage in which these existing * ' Beobaclit.ungen zu Botlikamp , ' 1872 , p. 59 .
t 1 Stellar Evolution , ' 1889 .
On the Spectra of the Great Nebula Orion .
[ May 2 , solid bodies had been converted into a gas of a very liigb temperature .
They would take the same place , if we assume with Sir William Thomson* the coming together of two or more cool solid masses by the velocity due to their mutual gravitation alone .
I pointed out in 1864f that the gaseous nature of these bodies would afford an explanation of the appearance of flat disks without condensation which many of them present .
The light emitted by the portions of the gas further from us would be in part or wholly absorbed by the gas through which it would have to pass , in this way giving to us the appearance of a luminous surface only .
In some of these bodies there is also a very faint continuous spectrum , which if we had more light might be found to consist , in great part at least , of closely adjacent bright lines .
Such is probably the nature , in part , of the apparently continuous spectrum of the nebula with which this paper deals chiefly , the Great Nebula in Orion .
In other gaseous nebulae strong condensations are seen , and a stronger " continuous " spectrum .
When we come to nebulae of which the nebula in Andromeda may be taken as representative , the strong bright line spectrum is absent , and we have what for convenience I called in my original observations of these bodies a 11 continuous " spectrum , though I was careful to point out that it was probably " crossed by bright or dark lines .
" Out of about sixty nebulae and close clusters observed by me up to 1866 , I found a proportion of about one-third , namely , nineteen , to present the spectrum of bright lines .
J The stage of evolution which the nebula in Andromeda represents is no longer a matter of hypothesis .
The splendid photograph recently taken by Mr. Roberts S of this nebula shows a planetary system at a somewhat advanced stage of evolution ; already several planets have been thrown off , and the central gaseous mass has condensed to a moderate size as compared with the dimensions it must have possessed before any planets had been formed .
[ Mr. Maunder permits me to add that he does not consider the measures and estimations of the motions of the nebula taken in 1884 and 1887 of any weight , but he attaches great importance to the direct comparisons of March , 1884 , which show that the nebula has but very little , if any , sensible motion in the line of sight .
May 16 .
] * 'Boy .
Instit .
Proc. , ' vol. 12 , pp. 15 , 16 .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1864 , p. 442 .
$ ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1866 , p. 383 .
S ' Monthly Notices B.A.S. , ' vol. 65 , p. 49 .
[ The diagrams have been made with care , but the positions of the lines must be taken from the tables of wave-lengths.\#151 ; May 13 .
] Huggins .
SPECTRUM OF GREAT NEBULA IN ORION .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. Vol.46 1 .
Photograph of 1888 .
mmm - \amp ; . .
\amp ; \#187 ; aon* , v \#171 ; Visible Spectrum .
West , Newman \amp ; 0 ?
11th .

