PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
May 1 , 1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Professor Luigi Cremona , of Eome , Foreign Member , was admitted into the Society .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Allman , Professor George Johnston , LL. D. Balfour , Prof. Isaac Bailey , D.Sc .
Baxendell , Joseph , F.R.A.S. Bell , James , F.I.C. Hartley , Professor " Walter Noel , F.R.S.E. Herschel , Professor Alexander Stewart , M.A. Hudleston , Wilfrid H. , M.A. Lamb , Professor Horace , M.A. McKendrick , Prof. John G. , M.D. Ransom , Arthur , M.D. Roy , Prof. Charles Smart , M.D. Rucker , Professor Arthur William , M.A. Thomson , Joseph John , M.A. Warren , Colonel Sir Charles , C.M.G. Watson , Professor Morrison , M.D. The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Cortical Connexions of the Optic Nerves .
" By D. J. Hamilton , M.B. , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Pathological Anatomy ( Sir Erasmus Wilson Chair ) in Aberdeen University .
Communicated by Professor J. S. Burdon SANDERSON , F.R.S. Received April 17 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The original statement made by Gratiolet that the optic tract is directly connected with every part of the cerebral hemisphere in man , from the frontal to the occipital region , is almost literally true .
^ VOL. XXXVII .
B On the Cortical Connexions of the Optic Nerves .
[ May 1 , 2 .
The origins of the optics may he divided into two sets\#151 ; ganglionic and cortical .
3 .
The fibres in the ganglionic set are derived from the corpora geniculata , pulvinar and corpora quadrigemina , probably also directly from the substance of the thalamus .
4 .
The cortical set 'join the chiasma and tract .
5 .
The junction of the chiasma with the cerebral cortex is brought about by means , of " Meynert 's commissure .
" The latter arises from the lenticular-nucleus-loop ( Linsen-kern-schlinge ) , decussates in the lamina cinerea , and passes with the optic nerve of the opposite side .
This commissure is connected to the cortex in the frontal region by the following means :\#151 ; It arises directly from the lenticular-nucleus-loop ; the lenticular-nucleus-loop is formed by the junction , below the lenticular nucleus , of the striae medullares ; the striae medullares form part of the fibres of the inner capsule , and the inner capsule is composed of the fibres descending from the cortex .
I should think it very probable that the fibres constituting the striae medullares come from the cortex of the same side .
6 .
The other cortical connexions of the optic join the tract as it winds round the pedunculus cerebri .
They are the following :\#151 ; ( a. ) A large mass of fibres derived from the motor areas of the opposite cerebral hemisphere , crossing in the corporus callosum , entering the outer capsule , and joining the tract directly .
( 6 .
) A great number of fibres uniting it to the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the same side , and especially the first and second temporal convolutions .
( c. ) A bundle of fibres , which spreads out into the gyrus hippocampi of the same side .
( d. ) A large leash of fibres , which connects it directly with the tip of the occipital lobe forming part of the " optic radiation .
" 7 .
The tract is in all probability further connected to the cerebral cortex indirectly , that is to say , by the intervention of the ganglionic masses , in the following manner :\#151 ; To the occipital lobe of the same side , through its connexion with the corpora geniculata and pulvinar , and the continuation of1 fibres from these backwards .
8 .
It is extremely doubtful whether the anterior corpus quadri-geminum is connected to the occipital lobe of the opposite side by a continuous band .
9 .
The " optic radiation " of Gratiolet going to the occipital lobe is composed of the following constituents :\#151 ; ( a. ) A branch to the optic tract directly .
( \amp ; .
) , , , , corpus geniculatum internum .
( c. ) " " " " externum .
( d. ) " " pulvinar .
1884 .
] The Himalaya Snowfall and Dry Winds in India .
( e. ) A branch to the substance of the thalmns .
( f.)The direct sensitive band joining the posterior third of the posterior limb of the inner capsule .
( g. ) A large mass of fibres which runs between the Island of Reil and the tip of the occipital lobe .
10 .
In the evolution of the brain it seems very probable that the functions of the thalamus and corpora quadrigemina as optic centres are transferred in man and certain mammals in great part to the cerebral cortex .
11 .
The cortical fibres which I have described are probably not all connected with visual centres , but are one means by which motor and other centres of the cortex are educated , and their function elicited in response to visual stimuli .
II .
" On the Connexion of the Himalaya Snowfall with Dry %/ % , Winds and Seasons of Drought in India .
" By Henry F. Blanford , F.R.S. Received April 14 , 1884 .
The present paper , as regards its subject-matter though not in form , is part of a general investigation of the rainfall of India , which has occupied much of my spare time for some years past , and the results of which are already partly embodied in a memoir which I hope , in the course of a few months , to issue as an official publication of the Indian Meteorological Office .
The idea that the snowfall of the Himalaya exercises a direct and important influence on the dry land winds of North-Western India is not now put forward for the first time .
It has been the subject of frequent reference in the annual reports on the meteorology of India since 1876 , as well as elsewhere ; and in a report on the administration of the India Meteorological Department lately issued , I summarised very briefly those points in the experience of the previous five years which have seemed to justify its provisional adoption as a basis for forecasting the probable character of the monsoon rains .
Relying on this experience , in the month of June last , I put forward in the Government Gazette , a note giving warning of the probability of a prolonged period of drought in the approaching monsoon season , and the result , if not in exact accordance with the terms of the forecast , has been so far confirmatory of the general idea , as to induce me to put the facts of past experience formally on record , and thereby challenge attention to the subject .
If I am right in the inference that the varying extent and thickness of the Himalayan snows exercise a great and prolonged influence on the climatic conditions and weather of the plains of North-Western India , \#163 ; 2

