14 Dr. A. Downs .
On the [ Jan ; 14 , About this region there is a system of arched commissural fibres , the fibres arcuatee .
They seem to be connected with the crura cere-belli and medullam .
They occur not only through the external part of the ventral surface , but also through the central portions .
The acusticus and glossopharyngeal arise from the grey substance on the floor of the fourth ventricle .
The vagus arises from a series of rounded tuberosities situated on the side of the floor of the fourth ventricle ; each root arises from a separate tuberosity .
The spinal nerves arise by dorsal and ventral roots ; the latter from the ventral horn of grey substance .
The former pass obliquely into the interior of the cord and there divide into two bundles ; one bundle from the anterior part of the root is directed backward , the other bundle from the posterior part of the root is directed forward .
They pass over the next nerve both in front and behind , and join the lateral columns of the cord .
This arrangement was first described by Stieda.* January 14,1886 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Action of Sunlight on Micro-organisms , \amp ; c. , with a Demonstration of the Influence of Diffused Light .
" By Arthur Downes , M.D. Communicated by Professor Marshall , F.R.S. Received December 9 , 1885 .
Eight years ago , conjointly with my friend Mr. Blunt , I communicated to the Royal Society an account of an experimental inquiry into the action of sunlight on the micro-organisms of putrefaction and decay.f We adduced evidence , conclusive in our opinion , that the solar rays were very hostile to these lowly forms of life ; so much so that under favourable conditions bright sunlight , sufficiently prolonged , would altogether prevent their appearance in fluids which , under * " Zeitsch .
f. Wiss .
Zoologie , " Bd .
23 , 1873 .
f " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 26 , p. 488 , and rol .
28 , p. 199 .
1886 .
] Action of Sunlight on Micro-organisms , fyc .
similar conditions of temperature and the like , but screened from light , swarmed in a very few days with countless saprophytes .
By means of suitable absorptive media , we learned that the most active rays were those of the more refrangible end of the spectrum .
Seeking an explanation of the facts thus observed , we proceeded in the first instance by analogy .
We found that light had an oxidising action on many organic substances of comparatively simple composition , and we demonstrated that , in the presence of free oxygen , the molecule of oxalic acid might be speedily and entirely resolved into water and carbonic acid by the action of light , more especially by those rays to which I have already referred .
Proceeding to more complex substances , we applied the same method to one of those singular bodies , the so-called soluble or indirect ferments .
In less than a month the properties , and , inferentially , the substance , of the invertive diastase of yeast were destroyed by light .
Once more we found that we had to deal with an oxidation .
Finally , our inference that the action of sunlight on the organisms of our cultures would likewise prove to be an oxidation was confirmed by direct experiments , in which the effect varied in proportion to the amount of free oxygen present .
As yet no one has repeated these investigations in their entirety , but sufficient confirmatory evidence has accumulated to justify me , I think , in briefly placing the case before the Society as it now stands , with one or two additional observations of my own , and to afford me an opportunity of replying to one or two points of criticism .
The earliest corroboration of our work came out on the reading of our first memoir on this subject .
Mr. Warington had that same evening , in a paper to the Chemical Society , notified , but was unable to explain , the inhibitory action of light on the process of nitrification .
Our experiments at once suggested to Dr. Gilbert the interpretation , since confirmed by several observers , * that light was inimical to the nitrifying ferment .
Gladstone and Tribe ( " Journ. Chem. Soc. , " August , 1883 ) found that light was detrimental to the development of fungoid growths in solutions of cane-sugar exposed to atmospheric air.f Tyndall re* Soyka , in " Zeit .
f. Biol. , " 1878 j Schloesing and Muntz , " Joum .
of Chem. Soc. " ( Abstr .
) , April , 1880 .
+ It is right to state that van Tieghem in his investigations on the organisms appearing in olive oil ( " Bull .
Soc. Bot. , " xxviii , p. 186 ) , found that Penicillium , glaucumdeveloped in oil at the most illuminated spots .
I have not been able to see the original paper , and am therefore not acquainted with the conditions of the experiment , especially as regards the nature of the illumination , and the access of free oxygen .
Dr. A. Downs .
On the [ Jan. 14 , ported to the British Association in 1881 the results which he had obtained in exposing flasks of animal and vegetable infusions to the influence of an Alpine sun .
Corresponding flasks shaded from the light became turbid in twenty-four hours , " while thrice this time left the exposed ones without sensible damage to their transparency .
" He satisfied himself that this was not due to differences of temperature .
The amount of insolation was insufficient , however , to permanently sterilise the cultures after removal to a warm kitchen .
Confirmatory evidence also , invested with a special value by the author 's great experience of saprophytic life , has more recently been adduced by Professor E. Duclaux.* With the usual precautions he introduced into a flat-bottomed Pasteur flask a drop of pure culture of the organism to be studied , and dried it under a desiccator .
After the desired period of exposure to the sun , the flask was charged with sterilised nutrient liquid , of a hind specially suitable to the development of the particular organism .
, and placed at a favourable temperature in an incubator .
Corresponding flasks were kept in the dark .
He finds that the general rule , that the spores of these organisms resist adverse influences better than their vegetative forms , holds good in regard to the effects of light .
This accords with our own observations on the insolation of germs in water.f M. Duclaux , however , reserves for a future memoir his conclusions on the insolation of the micrococci\#151 ; among which the formation of spores is not certainly known .
The very hardy spores of the Bacillus , to which he has given the name of Tyrothrix filiformis , % were destroyed by thirty-five days ' exposure to an autumnal sun .
T. geniculatus was more resistant , but showed signs of commencing enfeeblement .
T. scaber was only retarded in development by insolation during the month of August , 1884 , but a further exposure to the end of September\#151 ; a not very fine month\#151 ; sterilised two flasks out of four .
Similar spores had survived for three years in the dark .
Like Professor Tyndall , he was satisfied that these results were not effects of temperature ; his insolated flasks scarcely reached any point higher than their fellows kept in darkness in an incubator .
He concluded , also , from further experiments , that the injurious influence of light here manifested was probably an affair of oxidation .
M. Duclaux very rightly insists on the importance of careful adaptation of the nutrient liquids to the organisms operated upon , observing that , otherwise , spores might be regarded as dead which had only , perhaps , been enfeebled .
" C'est la l'objectiony " he continues , * 44 Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys. " 6e ser. , t. v , Mai , 1885 .
t 44 Proc. Boy .
Soc. , " vol. 28 , pp. 203-4 .
X " Etudes sur la lait , " 44 Ann. de Tlnstit .
Agronomique , " 1879-80 .
1886 .
] Action of Sunlight on , fyc .
i\gt ; qu'on peut adresser aux experiences tres bien conduits , du rest , et tres interessantes de M. A. Downs .
" ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 26 , p. 488 , 1877 .
) As regards the earlier of our memoirs , to which M. Duclaux refers , this criticism is just .
At that date knowledge of revivification of germs in different media was neither so generally diffused nor so precise as it now is .
This advance we owe not least to Professor Duclaux himself .
Accordingly , in our first experiments we regarded non-appearance of life in our insolaied tubes of Pasteur solution , or of urine , as proof of destruction of the organisms which they had originally contained .
In our second and more complete memoir , however , we reserved our opinion on this point .
But it was an essential principle of the method on which we worked , and the key to our success , that our nutrient fluids should be sufficiently resistant to bacterial growth to hinder the development of organisms , through the night , or during cloudy days , from outrunning the inhibitory effects of insolation .
It would probably , for example , not often be possible to secure in England the results which Tyndall obtained on the Alps with apparently considerable bulks of very putrescible materials .
Pasteur solution and the like are at their best but limited media of nutrition ; * yet under special circumstances , as , for example , in the demonstration of the action of diffused daylight given below , it is necessary to largely increase their resistance to decomposition .
Moreover , the question whether the germs in our solutions were or were not actually dead , does not affect the truth of our induction .
I cannot put this more pithily than has Professor Duclaux himself , in a very courteous communication with which he has favoured me .
" You have clearly shown , " he says , " that an insolated germ is a sick , sometimes very sick , germ ; death is but a step further .
" j* It was an a \#166 ; prioriprobability that micro-organisms should vary considerably in their powers of resistance to the oxidising influences of light .
In our previous papers , indeed , we gave examples of this in the frequent survival over Bacteria of some less sensitive form of Saccharomijces or Mucedo .
I have lately met with an instance which may be worth recording , as it enabled me to isolate a Bacterium of whi'ch I can find no previous description .
In each of a number of thickish glass tubes I had sealed up 3 c.c. of distilled water , together with a small bulb containing an * For prolonged insolation I have for another reason quite abandoned their use .
They are liable to take on a brown coloration in sunshine , and I have had , in con-sequence , to abandon a laborious series of experiments .
t M. Duclaux tells me that he has also confirmed our observation that the diastases are destroyed by sunlight .
He operated on the diastase presure , the .coagulating principle of rennet .
YOL .
XL .
C Dr. A. Downs .
On [ Jan. 14 , equal quantity of carefully sterilised peptone solution ( double strength ) .
Some of these tubes were insolated on an outside shelf facing south ; others were incased in laminated lead alongside .
After the desired period of insolation , the bulbs were broken by a jerk , and the tubes , now containing 6 c.c. of peptone solution of ordinary strength ( 2 per cent. ) , were removed to a warm cupboard kept at about 20 ' C. By a week 's exposure , May 29\#151 ; June 5 , bacterial development was already retarded ( sixty hours as compared with twenty-four ) .
After insolation for nearly four weeks , May 29\#151 ; June 24 , ordinary bacterial development appeared in two incased tubes in thirty-six hours .
In two insolated tubes , at the same date , nothing was seen till the fourth day , when small flakes began to form , and by August 3 had settled into a dirty-white collection , leaving the supernatant liquid clear , presenting a notable contrast to the uniform turbidity of the incased .
These flakes were found to consist of compact spherical or cylindrical nodulated masses of zoogloea .
They closely resembled in general appearance the Ascococcus Billrothii or Ascobacteria of v. Tieghem , but I was utterly unable to demonstrate the gelatinous envelopment from which those organisms take their name .
On teasing out a portion the colony was found to consist of closely felted small rods , motile when freed from the mass , about 0'6/ x diameter , and 2'0\#151 ; 3'0/ tt long .
On September 28 , after four months ' exposure , the remaining tubes , three insolated and one incased , were taken in .
Nine days elapsed before the latter became hazy with Bacteria .
In eleven days one of the insolated contained flakes , such as I have above described .
In a day or two later similar flakes formed in another of these tubes .
The third insolated tube subsequently broke down with a scanty development of Bacteria , not distinguishable from the kinds found in the incased.* It is evident that the zoogloea-lump-forming Bacterium was especially resistant to sunlight , and so became isolated in almost pure cultures in four-fifths of the tubes insolated for a month and upwards , I wish now to direct attention to the fact that the tubes of the experiment which I have just described , were exposed repeatedly to considerable elevations of temperature .
The meteorology of Greenwich may be taken as sufficiently identical with that of Chelmsford , * This experiment\#151 ; an insolation of germs in water only\#151 ; might be regarded , and possibly rightly so , as confirmatory of what we have previously written on the resistance of germinal matter in a fluid devoid of nutrient material .
But it should be remembered that the supply of free oxygen was necessarily limited in these sealed tubes , being rather less than 5 c.c. in each , and I am unable at present to say whether this amount would be sufficient to oxidise the germs ordinarily present in 3 c.c. of distilled water .
1886.1 Action of Sunlight on , Sfc .
where the investigation was made.* At the Royal Observatory the means of the maxima in the sun 's rays were :\#151 ; June ... ... ... 126-1 ' F. ( 52*3 ' C. ) .
July ... ... ... 143*0 F. ( 61-6 C. ) .
August ... ... .
129*2 F. ( 54*0 C. ) .
It cannot be doubted that these tubes were often exposed to a temperature of 140 ' F. ( 60 ' C. ) , and on at least one occasion ( July 27 ) to 160 ' F. ( 71 ' C. ) .
The encased tubes had for radiant heat a somewhat greater absorptive power than the bare glass of the insolated .
For temperatures below 100 ' F. ( 38 ' C. ) this difference was comparatively slight ; at 100 ' F. it was 4*5 ' F. ( 2*5 ' C. ) .
It is certain , therefore , that any deleterious influence of heat should tell more on the encased than on the insolated .
Yet at the end of four months Bacteria appeared , retarded in development , it is true , but still morphologically identical with the forms originally found in similar solutions .
I lay stress on these facts , because an Australian observer has declared !
that we , and Professor Tyndall with us , have mistaken effects of heat for supposed effects of actinism .
J But Dr. Jamieson 's paper in abstract has gone the usual round of German year-books and periscopic notes of English journals , until an impression has arisen that there is no satisfactory evidence of injurious influence of light on micro-organisms .
I trust , therefore , to be permitted a few words in reply .
Dr. Jamieson insolated Cohn 's solution in phials , and found that in a short space of time bacterial development might thereby be entirely prevented .
But in some of his experiments he thought that he succeeded better in hot weather than in cool , and he failed to produce any effect in diffused light .
He asked himself , therefore , whether the results he had noted might not have been , after all , due to heat .
This was a very legitimate question , but , instead of solving it by direct observation , he unfortunately recalled to mind experimentsS in which B. termo had apparently been killed by seven days ' exposure to 45 ' C. ( 113 ' F. ) , by fourteen hours at 47 ' C. ( 116*6 ' F. ) , by three or * Greenwich ... ... ... \#187 ; Lat. 51*28 N. .
0*00 .
Chelmsford ... ... ... " 51*44 N. " 0*28 E. + Boyal Society of Victoria .
June , 1882 .
J We cannot dispense with some word such as this to connote energy not necessarily coincident with effects either of solar heat or luminosity .
In using it above , I go a little further than Professor Tyndall , who has not , I believe , yet given any opinion as to the form of radiant energy , except that it is not , which he found to hinder bacterial development .
S " Eidam .
Beit , sir Biol , der Pfl .
, " Heft iii , p. 208 .
c 2 Dr. A. Downs .
On the [ Jan. 14 , four hours at 50\#151 ; 52 ' C. ( 122\#151 ; 125*6 ' F. ) , and by one hour at 60 ' C. ( 140 ' F. ) .
He argued that some of these temperatures were commonly attained in the sun 's rays in Australia , and even in England ; he thought that 125\#174 ; F. ( 51*6 ' C. ) would occasionally be experienced for a few hours , and he concluded that his , our own , and Tyndall 's results were all effects of temperature .
The argument is fallacious .
It is true that some organisms in certain stages of their development may be destroyed by lower degrees of heat than is commonly supposed .
Duclaux has given an instance in which forty-eight hours at 38 ' C. ( 100*4 ' F. ) was fatal to some very old yeast globules .
But even of these it is true only in their vegetative forms ; their spores ( and the spore-form is doubtless that in which the microorganisms originally existed in our nutrient liquids ) resist elevations of heat far surpassing anything noted above .
Were it otherwise bacterial life would probably soon cease to be .
It is obviously incorrect to argue that , because some organisms in some phase of their existence are destroyed by moderate heat , all organisms , in all phases and under all conditions , are so too , and any inference drawn from such reasoning must be rejected .
Moreover , I have already shown that the laminated lead used in our experiments absorbed radiant heat in greater degree than the bare glass , and consequently that our encased tubes would be more affected by solar heat than our insolated .
And I need only refer to our previous demonstration , that the greatest effect on micro-organisms is produced by those rays which occupy the cooler portion of the spectrum .
Dr. Jamieson failed with diffused light .
His failure was due to his method of experimenting.* I have already said that an essential element of success is to apportion the natural resistance of the cultivation liquids to the amount of light available .
Bacterial development once started usually outruns even direct sunlight , both by increasing the opacity of the fluid , and by quickly reducing the amount of oxygen .
Naturally diffused light would be far slower in action than the direct solar ray , and we must select either very cool weather for the experiment , or must choose solutions of considerable resistance .
Keeping this principle in view , I have found it easy to show that diffused light possesses properties differing only in degree from those which we have demonstrated in regard to direct sunlight .
I have made a number of experiments in which ordinary thin test-tubes plugged with cotton-wool were placed in a box ( 20*5 cm .
cube ) lined * Moreover , he seems to have placed his bottles inside a window .
The absorptive power of glass has always prevented me from succeeding in such circumstances .
1886 .
] Action of Sunlight on Micro-organisms , 8fc .
with white paper , having one side open , and tilted at such an angle as to receive diffused light straight from the white clouds of the northern sky .
By no possibility could direct sunlight find an entrance .
In the box were placed maximum and minimum thermometers , each pair with bulbs respectively encased or left bare .
In September , 1883 , using Cohn 's solution five times the ordinary strength , in five days , four out of six encased tubes were noted as " turbid , " and the other two as " hazy , " with bacteria .
The exposed tubes were recorded " beautifully clear .
" At the end of two days more the latter were still clear , but in each were specks of mycelium .
The survival of mycelial growth over bacterial has already been alluded to in the present paper , and is seen in Dr. Jamieson 's own experiments .
But mycelial growth itself may be hindered by diffused light .
In March , 1884 , a slightly acid Cohn 's solution , two and a half times ordinary strength , being specially selected , I found that at the end of ten days \#166 ; \#163 ; of the encased tubes contained mycelial specks , the six exposed tubes being perfectly free .
At the end of fifteen days my notes were :\#151 ; " Disks of mycelium plug f- of encased , of exposed ; small tufts of mycelium in the remaining encased tube , and in one of the exposed , three remaining exposed quite clear .
The difference in appearance of the two sets is remarkable .
" The means of the thermometrical readings during two periods were:\#151 ; Encased .
Exposed .
S t 1883 / Max. 63-5 ' F. ( 17*5 ' C. ) 64-0 ' F. ( 17*8 ' C. ) .
P LMim .
44-7 F. ( 7*0 C. ) 45-0 F. ( 72 C. ) .
0 .
/ Max. 56-0 F. ( 13-3 C. ) 57'8 F. ( 14*3 C. ) .
" Min .
35-6 F. ( 2-0 C. ) 36-8 F. ( 2'6 C. ) .
As the encased tubes were the better absorbers , so are they now seen to be the better radiators , and conditions of temperature were accord , ingly slightly more adverse to development of organisms in them as compared with the exposed .
I now conclude this paper with a reference to the researches of Herr Pringsheim on chlorophyll.* I refer to them with especial gratification , as evidence of the truth of a generalisation which I had ventured to draw from our experiments .
The micro-organisms of our solutions may be regarded as examples of protoplasm in its simplest forms , but there are no grounds for supposing that this " life-stuff " should be subject to hyperoxidation by light only when it exists in a Bacterium , or a mycelial thread .
On the contrary we have probably to deal with a general law , and , without protective developments of cell wall , or of colouring matter which * " M. B. Akad .
Wiss .
, " Berlin , 1879 .
22 Prof. F. Elgar .
On the [ Jan. 14 , should filter out injurious rays , \amp ; c. , living organisms could hardly endure the solar light .
Pringsheim operated on chlorophyll tissues .
By means of a lens and a heliostat he concentrated upon them sunlight , from which by suitable media he had sifted out the heat rays .
In a few minutes the green colouring matter was destroyed , the protoplasmic circulation arrested , the protoplasm disorganised , and the cell flaccid and inert .
He found , as we had found , that the more refrangible rays were the most powerful , and he , too , concluded that he was dealing with an oxidation , for in an atmosphere of hydrogen or of carbonic acid these destructive results no longer ensued .
The experiments of Siemens* and Deherainf also demonstrate both the destructive influence of the electric light on vegetation and the protective effect of a glass screen .
[ Note.\#151 ; According to an abstract in " Journal of Science , " 3rd ser. , vol. vii , p. 594 , M. Duclaux has since published the results of his observations on six species of micr , apparently of pathogenic kind .
J Forty days of insolation ( May 4\#151 ; June 13 ) proved sufficient to kill and less to attenuate these germs in the moist state .
In a desiccated condition eight days ( May 26\#151 ; June 3 ) proved fatal ; in July none resisted three days ' exposure at a south window which received the sun only from nine to one o'clock each day , and where the temperature did not exceed 102 ' F. ( 39 ' C. ) .
Fifteen days of July sun destroyed the micrococci in the moist state .
He had not in these experiments eliminated any partial influence of temperature .
January 4 , 1886 \#151 ; A. H. D. ] II .
" Notes upon the Straining of Ships caused by Rolling .
" By Francis Elgar , LL. D. , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Sir E. J. Reed , F.R.S. Received December 28 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) It does not appear that any serious attempt has yet been made to investigate the amounts , or even the nature , of the principal straining * " Rep. Brit. Assoc. , " 1881 .
t " Journ. Chem. Soc , " ( Absfc .
) , Jan. , 1883 .
Considerations of time and space prevent me from noticing jnany other observations of interest in connexion with this subject ; e.g. , of Engelmann on Pelomyxa ( " Arch. f. Phys. , " xix , 1879 ) and on P. photometricum ( " J. Roy .
Micr .
Soc. , " Abst .
, 1882-2 ) , or of Stahl , " On the Arrangement of Chlorophyll Bodies in Plant-Cells " ( " Bot. Zeit .
, " 1880 ) .
J " Comptes rendus , " 1885 .

