]\gt ; Man 's Efficiency in Work and the Cost of the Movements Involved Treated rately ) .
By J. S. MACDONALD , Professor of , Liverpool .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received May 6 , 1914 , \mdash ; received in revised form September 6 , 1916 .
) Many of the data contained in this paper have been already published* and submitted to a preliminary process of analysis .
From the arrangement then made it was seen that the exercised two separate , and ' influences on the heat production associated with muscular work .
A certain steady rate of movement was maintained throughout a long series of experiments , and this was complicated to a different degree , in different groups of experiments , with the performance of different , increasing , amounts of mechanical work .
When the heat production was comparatively smffi , in the case of minimal performance , it was observed to vary directly with the body-weights of the individual subjects .
On the other hand , when larger , this variation was less noticeable , and at a certain stage of increase in the performance of work it was found to have disappeared completely .
The fact was very definite , so that in four different groups of experiments arranged in order of reference to risin values of mechanical work the total heat productions measured varied in Group A directly with , in Group with , in Group with , and in Group with ( loc. cit. , p. 111 ) .
No attempt was made at the time , other than contained in a statement of suggestions requiring consideration , to explain this phenomenon , for which course , indeed , an excuse might be found in the labour involved in collecting the information , and the even greater labour of dealing similarly with the very extensive series of measurements underlying the published data .
To this problem , then , attention is once more directed in the present paper .
In the meantime , these original data have been eIaborately and excellently examined by Glazebrook and in a manner meriting very considerable interest .
Before once more encountering these facts , an explanation of the chief terms utilised may be of advantage , since the mode of experiment and the actual measurements have of necessity to be kept out of sight , and no opportunities arise therefore for an observation of the way in which the measurements are summed to form the total data displayed .
, for " " Studies in the Heat-production Associated with Muscular Work.\mdash ; Preliminary Communication ' Boy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 87 , p. 96 et seq. ( 1913 ) .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 87 , p. 311 et seq. ( 1914 ) .
Man 's Mechanical Efficiency in Work Performance .
example , the main data , throughout termed " " heat productions include frequently a larger quantity of heat than that dissipated from the experimental subject as such , since they include an allowance made for any additional heat stored in his body ( an allowance assessed with reference to the rectal temperature ) , and also include the heat dissipated from the experimental machine ( cycle ) whenever , and to the same extent as , work is performed upon it by the subject .
It is clear that only such sums of the total transformation of energy by the subject are of major physiological interest , as alone equivalent to data obtained from examinations of the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the concomitant process of respiration , and to data obtained in any other fashion as to the oxidation of material in the body .
Then , fain , it is necessary to define the usage of the term " " efficienc since although at the outset of these experiments that usage was as far as possible defined by the very nature of the experiments , occasion has since arisen to utilise the term in an unanticipated way .
Thus , they were arranged to provide a determination of " " efficiency\ldquo ; by the comparison of increments in work performance with associated increments of heat production , and that arrangement is very definitely continued in the data under discussion , since the process of experiment was narrowed down to au examination of numbers of individual subjects in two groups of experiments ( A and C ) , differing only from one another by an increment of work and its consequences .
Owing to an accident these roups were interrupted , and , after a complete overhauling of the calorimeter and its apparatus , under improved conditions tloe same process was renewed , but the results of this later series have been ciassified under Groups and D. In either case it was intended to deal finally with the question of efficiency by a comparison of increments observed under similar experimental conditions and it is to be dealt with ) by making that comparison where those conditions were at their best , that is , in the later pair of groups ( and D ) .
Utilised in reference to such a comparison , there is not much chance that any misunderstanding can arise as to the of " " efficiency When later the usage of the term .
is expanded , as first when the efficiency prevalent in the performance of the whole of the vork is considered ( as distinguished from the incl.elIlent ) in each of the experiments of Group and of Group 1 ) , even at that stage the term will probably not be misunderstood , since it will be clear that the work done is then compared to Ilat fraction of the heat production which includes it , and which is associated ith its performance and with nothing else , not even 'Brit .
Assoc. Reports , ' p. 289 ( 1912 ) .
Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
with the accomplishment of the movement in the course of which it is performed .
So far the use is simple , and may be expressed in symbols as follows : Let equal the work done , and the heat production , the incremental efficiency is the ratio When the total efficiency of work performance is dealt with , then must be considered as split up into fractions , where is equal to , and where is everything else\ldquo ; that has no relation to , in this case the ratio is .
When later " " everything else\ldquo ; is dealt with , some simplification ensues , since for the purposes of this paper\mdash ; for reasons better explained in the conclusion , when the results obtained by such a method of procedure have been examined and found in order\mdash ; " " everything else\ldquo ; which is left of the heat production when has been subtracted is considered in its entirety as the " " cost of movement no attempt whatever being made to treat it as if again analysable into fractions such as are required by the conventional view that a part of it is " " metabolism and only the remainder associated with movement .
However , it is in this latter case , in reference to movement , most difficult to estimate the prevalent efficiency , because of the impossibility of directly measuring the work done in movement , but it will be seen that there is promise that an analysis of the " " cost of movement\ldquo ; Data of Groups and reprinted in Abbreviated Form from the Communication .
* Group B.\mdash ; Standard rate of movement 60 revs .
per minute , associated work 19 kals .
per hour .
IIIIVIvII { mmKempRae Group D.\mdash ; Standard rate 60 revs .
per , associated , work 56 kals .
per hour .
IYII February 1 'Boy .
Soc. Proc , pp. 108 , 109 .
Man 's Efficiency in Work Performance .
may somewhat unexpectedly disintegrate that quantity into terms of work done and price paid .
Turning then to the data of the two more recent groups of experiments , and ( loc. cit. , pp. 108 , 109 ) , it will be seen that four names , and not more than four , are to be found in both groups , and so provide four individual opportunities .
a determination of efficiency by reference to increments of work and heat production .
Always speaking of these subjects , Kemp , , Bennett , Armstrong , in the same order , they may be thought of as differing from one another in several ways which se , emed to have so little influence on the data that they were } mentioned in the process of preliminary analysis .
Thus their heights are different , respectively , 1718 , , and cm .
Their " " figures\ldquo ; are different , as may be deduced from a comparison of these heights with the cube roots of their " " stripped weights their respective heights in these terms being , , and ; from which it may be inferred that Bennett was slender , whereas Kemp was sturdy , and the other two were of intermediate types .
The clothes worn weighed respectively , , and .
; the lighter clothes being the " " athletic exercise\ldquo ; garb of two medical students , the heayier the ordinary clothes of two junior laboratory assistants .
As a matter of fact , it is difficult lio control clothing and the attempt made was limited to the supervision , and proyision where necessary , of shoes .
Then the mean rectal temperatures during that part of the experiments ( second hour ) covered by the data were respectively , , and C. ; the mean surface temperatures , , and C. More of less importance , could also be mentioned in telms of age , diet , and habit .
First , taking the data from the Tables without correction , that is to say , dealing with all four subjects as if they had each performed exactly the standard amount of work required , equivalent to 56 kalories in , to 19 kalories in , and therefore providing an increment of 37 kalories : this increment is then compared with the measured increments of heat production , which differ in the individual cases .
Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
It will be seen that the respective ratios of the number 37 to the numbers 132 , 135 , 142 and 169 are the individual values of the efficiency , and realised that the individual values of ( the reciprocal of the " " efficiency in work performance are contained in the last column in the factors , 384 , and .
The values of these factors expressed in terms of the " " stripped weights\ldquo ; of the different subjects ( 1 ) Kemp ( 2 ) Rae ( 3 ) Bennett . .
( 4 ) Armstrong .
It is of advantage to display these figures in this way prior to making the necessary corrections , since the method of correction is dependent on the accuracy of separate experiments in which measurements were made of the power absorbed by a motor ( 1 ) when driving the cycle against the particular brake used in the experiments , and ( 2 ) , always in the same series of observations , against rope-brakes arranged to entail the same power-absorption .
In these experiments it was accurately ascertained that in the neighbourhood of the experimental rate , the power-absorption , and therefore the work done , in the cycling experiments varied with the square of the rate .
Aberrations from the standard rate therefore must be regarded as seriously affecting the amount of work done .
the aberrations in rate shown in the tabulated data ( Groups and , loc. cit it is found that , with the exception of Bennett , the subjects deviated sensibly and in much the same proportion from this rate in Group , but maintained it steadily in Group B. The explanation is simple : conducted by the same rhythmical light signal , they were dependent on the clock from which the signal was worked ( electrical contact ) , except Bennett , who preferred to be guided by the tick of a clock inside the calorimeter .
These aberrations have been corrected for , in every single datum in the tabulated data , on the precise basis of variation with the square of the rate , and the average correction so obtained entails the following alterations in the statement of work-performance:\mdash ; 's Mechanical Efficiency in Work .
399 As a consequence the values of formerly given must be altered from ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , to ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , and the efficiencies prevalent in the four different cases are : ( 1 ) , , ( 2 ) ( 3 ) , and ( 4 ) per cent. respectively .
Expressed in terms of the " " stripped \ldquo ; of the different subjects the observed values of are as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Kemp ( 2 ) Rae ( 3 ) Bennett ( 4 ) Armstrong It is therefore clear that efficiency in work-performance is dominated by the value of the body-weight , that it is greater with the greater weight , and therefore that on this account greater weight is an advantage , heat production .
In the particular case just examined it is found , in fact , that However , it is essential , when making this statement , that some indication should be inserted of my opinion that this expression cove only a particular problem and refers , in unmodified , only to work upon a particular machine .
I shall , therefore , venture to insert in the statement a particular function of the body weight , ( see p. 407 ) , which is of the value of in these particular subjects , and has a definitely particular average value in this particular case .
Modified by its insertio1 ] , the efficiency statement is , therefore , as follows:\mdash ; .
NOTE.\mdash ; It is of interest that there is some slight evidence in these data of the influence of factors of secondary importance .
Thus the data of Group ( ' .
Soc. Proc .
cit. , p. 109 ) five separate expel.iments are recorded on Bennett in which his rates of cycling were respectively , 600 , , and .
Notwithstanding these differences in rate of movement , and the still larger consequences which ensue in the rate of work performance on the brake ( see above ) , the respective heat-productions are recorded as 338 , 332 , 336 , 333 , and 338 .
Thus , more especially attending to the fourth of these experiments , in which ths rate of cycling fell to an annoying deg1ee , Bennett 's temperature may explain the fact that the heat production did not similarly fall .
At the time he maintained that the cycle-counter wns at fault , and that as a fact the rate was prope1ly continued , but his lecord differs on that day from every othel day in the following important points : ( 1 ) initial ) erature 3 C. , replacing average C. : ( 2 ) rectal temperature during experiment C. instead of .
; ( 3 ) surface temperature .
instead of C. , and consequently ( d ) difference of level between rectal and surface teml)eraturcs 3 C. instead of 6 .
In short\mdash ; and not as an explanation\mdash ; on that occasion Bennett suffered from , and complained of , heavy cold .
Somewhat similar interest is to be attached to the meant on Sharrard in the same group .
Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
Up to the present nothing but the increments have been examined , and it is of interest now to observe what order can be obtained on the assumption that this efficiency prevailed similarly in the total performance of external work .
then the quantity from the experiments in Group .
and from those in Group , in both cases utilising the now observed individual values of and the corrected values of and K2 , the following residues are obtained .
Residues or Costs of Movement .
Although the htly greater rate of movement ( 603/ 600 ) in Group have been expected to produce somewhat larger consequences , to which Bennett should have proved an exception , yet the figures are very satisfactory evidence of the comparability of the two groups of experiments .
In view of this evidence these .ta are accepted as entities separable from the total heat production , and as representing the cost of the underlying movement .
Before dealing with them more precisely certain additional data are introduced .
Additional Data ( Briscoe ) .
Doubtless some of the accuracy of the experiments just quoted is to be assigned to the monotonous repetitions of similar experiments , every experiment ' drill\ldquo ; in handling the very complicated apparatus required , in precisely the most convenient way .
The series of experiments now quoted from were of a difl'erent type , since large variations in heat production were measured in successive experiments .
No doubt they suffer to some degree from that fact .
Then they were not all of precisely the same durat , ion , some longer and some shorter than those of the " " efficiency groups\ldquo ; ; and in addition the calibration of the work done on the cycle was not so satisfactory , nor had it the same direct relation to the actual experimental rates of movement , since in several experiments the subject initiated and maintained his own rate .
Once that is said , however , in other points they were similar .
The rate of cycling was maintained the same , however much it was varied in different experiments , throughout the whole time of each single experimenb .
The sets of observations were made at the end of each five-minute period , and none are reckoned in the data that were Man 's Efficiency Work taken in the first hour .
The\ldquo ; accountancy\ldquo ; of measurements has followed exactly the same plan , and the data now published have been carefully scrutinised again on exactly similar lines .
The subject 's efficiency , as calculated from his own results , and in agreement with those already considered , is such that the subtraction necessary to remove the moiety of heat production associated with external work performance is K. Removing these fractions the " " cost of movement\ldquo ; is left , and in this case it represents that cost at definitely different rates of movement .
* Data in British Association Report , 1912 , p. 289 , numbered there as 2 , , 4 , 5 .
The query by the side of the revolution rate will be understood to refer to the difficulty of maintaining these fast ates in a perfectly uniform way , there always being a tendency for groups of faster to succeed groups of slower movements .
These Briscoe data have been iven in the same as all the data up to the present , and may be compared at once with them , but for the purposes of the later part of this paper they are now changed in form .
Kalories per hour are now changed into small calories per second , revolutions per llinute into " " per second and doubli1lg this revolution rate , so taking account of the two complete leg-movements associated with each revolution of the cycle pedals , they are presented as " " strides per second Another may also be noticed from this point onwards , namely , the large number of apparently significant figures in which the rates of movement are expressed ( thus , per but this method has proved of value , in so far as these figures are submitted to speculative ement always in the same definite form in which they are given .
Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
Table I.\mdash ; Briscoe .
strides per second .
residue " " cost of movement Qvoogg V Further Additional Data ( Douglas ) .
To complete the of data essential to a full consideration of the " " cost of movement I have , of necessity , had to consult the data given by other investigators , and have chosen as most suitable for my purpose equivalent data published by Douglas and Haldane , *which are in their original form ineasurements of the oxygen absorbed and the carbon dioxide produced by when walking on the grass at Oxford at rates varied from 2 to 5 miles per hour .
These data have been converted into calories per second , following the Zuntz and method in exact detail .
The method may be readily ascertained from Benedict and Cathcart 's description .
This done , I have converted miles per hour\ldquo ; into " " strides per second\ldquo ; in an arbitrary fashion , since the stride-length of Douglas is not given .
For this purpose I have credited him with a length of stride of metre ( 33 inches ) , thus allowing stride per sec. as the equivalent of 1 mile per hour .
In dealing with these data no subtraction whatever has been made .
The view is taken that the process of ' walking on the grass at Oxford\ldquo ; is not associated with any other than a negligible amount of external work performance .
The whole heat production is thus in this case treated as " " cost of movement and is dealt with as if caused by phenomena completely resembling those underlying the residue of heat production in Briscoe 's case , completely , that is to say in everything but magnitude .
Table II.\mdash ; Douglas Walking on .
the Grass at Oxford .
strides per second .
heat production in calories per second .
Man 's Efficiency in Work Performance .
40$ THE COST OF MOVEMENT .
Formulation of the Cost .
It is a matter of common flat the cost of movement\ldquo ; increases .
with increasing body weight .
It is therefore different from the cost of work performance , for which heavier individuals are chosen for the continued performance of heavy work .
That the fact is a very definite one may be seen at once from the residues of my four cycling subjects on p. 401 .
Forbrevity those residues ( Group B ) are at once expressed in terms of the individual ' ' stripped weights\ldquo ; of the four subjects subsequent to from kalories per hour into small calories per second ( division by ) .
( 1 ) Kemp ( 2 ) Rae ( 3 ) Bennett ( 4 ) Armstrong .
and at the same rate of movement ( see Table I , 2 strides per second ) , ( 5 ) Briscoe the average of the first four , obtained under the same experimental : conditions , it may be said that at this rate of movement ( one cycle revolution , or two strides per second ) , .
( ) And now turning to the influence of the rate of movement on this cost , .
it is also certainly very definite , even if complex .
Thus the whole of the Douglas data ( Table II ) may reasonably be considered as expressible in the following formula:\mdash ; , ( ) as is shown by a comparison of the data , ( 1 ) 210 , 164 , 131 , , 63 , with the values deduced from the formula , ( 2 ) , 166 , 133 , S8 , 63 .
As a matter of fact , it is possible to make a choice between this formula and others of a somewhat similar type , equally , if not satisfactory for this purpose , but this formula has been deliberately chosen as of a certain greater rigidity of type which is of value when co1nparisious are made with attempts to formulate the cost of other movements .
Thus , for example , the whole of the Briscoe data can be reasonably held to be expressible in an exactly similar , and similarly rigid , formula as follows:\mdash ; Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
as is shown by a comparison of the data ( 1 ) 22 , 32 , 42 , 44 , 49 , 70 , 76 with the values deduced from the formula ( 2 ) 22 , 32 , 41 , 42 , 48 , 70 , 73 .
The agreement is certainly least where the experimental data are necessarily fallible .
In reference to the influence of " " rate\ldquo ; upon the cost of movement , and in exact explanation of the nature of the formulae , it may be said at once that the point of greatest importance lies in the fact that the cost per stride is least at a certain intermediate rate of movement , and therefore also the cost of progression is least at the same intermediate rate .
In both of these formulae that fact is placed in unusual prominence by the direct insertion of this economical in a definite position of importance in the formulae .
The cost per stride in ' case , that is to say , the value of is least when has the value , and in Briscoe 's case the value Speaking of lihe particular value of as in each case , then the two formuIae have the resemblance shown below:\mdash ; ( ) ( c ) Briscoe Nor is this the end of the resemblance , as may be seen from the considerations stated below .
Digressing a moment , but as briefly as possible , it may be stated as an axiom that , with regard every formula of the general type , the value of at which is minimal is determined by the relation In this particular case and therefore therefore ( d ) That is to say that , in this particular rigid formula , is also a function of and may be represented by ; and this is exactly true in the two formula given : in the one case 0.380 has this relation to 1.475 , and in the other to .
The present resemblance between the two formulae is therefore seen in the fact they may be both wntten as follows:\mdash ; ( b ) Douglas ( c ) Briscoe . .
If it could be shown , then , that 52.37 in the one case , or , as it may be termed , in formula ( b ) , is also a function of 1.475 , and the same ] Man 's Mechanical Efficiency in Work Performance .
function as is 1645 , the in formula , of , then would be a function of also a function of , and the functions would be identical in character .
This actually seems to be the case , as is shown incidentally in the following method of dealing with the two formulae , which is of use later in assessing values of in additional individual cases ( see ( l ) , p. 407 ) .
( b ) Douglas therefore therefore It will be seen that this new form of statement is permissible , inasmuch as is approximately equal to , and because .
( c ) Briscoe therefore therefore This statement , similar to that given in the case of Douglas , is again also permissible because is approximately equal to , and because .
Now when ( e ) is compared with ( f ) , with an appreciation of the fact that the quantities of heat dealt with in the two cases are in the ratio of 210/ 49 at the same common value for V , , also of the ease with which it would be possible to adjust the small difference thus revealed without modifying the formulae probably in any other way than to make them still more applicable to the data than they are at present , it will be granted that ( e ) and ( f ) reveal as the same identical function of P. may then be written as P It follows that the formulae are completely identical in form , and may either be written as follows:\mdash ; or .
The only difference , then , between the cost of walking , on the one hand , and the cost of cycling on the other , is to be sought in the different magnitude of in the two cases , and in either case the cost of movement at every other rate , including that at the ' economical rate where this cost is least , may apparently be anticipated after an examination of the cost at any one definitely maintained rate .
Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
It is now useful to define in terms of , and a possible procedure is as follows:\mdash ; Let , therefore ( Douglas ) , ( Briscoe ) Let and therefore therefore ( Douglas ) , ( 1 ) ( Briscoe ) .
( 2 ) From these equations , and therefore also therefore and .
( g ) Introducing this expression for in the general equation therefore .
( h ) The suggestion implied in the form ( h ) is obvious , and may be briefly expressed by saying that the expression , ( ) would represent a rational formula , in which was the reciprocal of the efficiency in movement , also that there is some promise shown in ( h ) of a final statement in this rational form .
Undex the impression that this promise is sufficient to permit immediate examination of the formula from such a point of view , I shall venture to speak of part of the formula as the possible " " \ldquo ; factor .
The " " \ldquo ; Factor .
An attempt to ascertain the relation between and the mass , .and at the same lime to express in terms of , may be made very simply by utilising the relation found in the case of the four cycling subjects , .
It will be remembered that for both Douglas and Briscoe , and therefore inferentially the cycling subjects , .
It is true there was a slight difference in Douglas ' case , but it was even then of minimal value , and there can be little hesitation in applying the exact form of Briscoe 's statement to the subjects examined umder similar conditions .
In their case , since , the latter expression becomes f ) Q. Man 's Efficiency in Work therefore therefore .
( k ) But therefore .
( l ) Therefore the factor and have both been expressed in terms of the " " stripped weight However , since the mass in motion includes the clothes , it seems essen tial at this point to introduce the " " clothed weight\ldquo ; ; and an interesting way of doing so is to determine the values of for Kemp and Armstrong , from the general expression ( l ) given above ; and then convert the values so found into terms of the clothed .
Substituting and for in ) , it follows that in Kemp 's case , and in Armstrong 's case .
Now their clothed weights ( for weight of clothes , see p. 397 ) were and kgrm .
respectively ; this , in both cases the given values of may be expressed as ; substituting this new value for in the " " \ldquo ; factor , therefore now with some certainty the fact that this is indeed a " " mass factor even if qualified by something in the nature of , it is safe to conclude that either or is a unit of length .
The conclusion may be said to follow at once from the general cubical nature of the factor , which may , indeed , be described as qualified by a correction for clothing difference between and ) and a correction for density ( difference between and ) .
arrived at this conclusion , however , it is reasonable to be prepared for several different relationships to the whole mass of the body resulting from temporary alterations in this individual unit of length , not only in reference to the individual mass , but also to the of shortening or extension of the body mass associated with individual movements .
In short , it is reasonable to infer that the comparison between the value of found for Briscoe and that found for Douglas is not assignable merely to different body , but also to an essential distinction between and , the ' cycling\ldquo ; and ' ' values of respectively .
Taking this view , I have considered it not unwise to assume that whereas is related denotes the " " cycling value " " of P. 408 Prof. J. S. Macdonald .
to as shown , it is extremely likely that in the fully extended dimension of the body utilised in walking , will be found rather related to that function of the which is of so reat comparative value in connection with the linear dimensions of the body , namely , the cube root of the weight .
Considering the mass factor , , with this possibility in mind , it would seem as if under such circumstances the whole factor would become .
This view may be tested immediately , since it should be to calculate Douglas ' weight on the assumption that in his case Thus ( Douglas ) , therefore and therefore kgrm .
But since his weight is given in as 65 kgrm .
, the assumption would seem to be reasonably justified .
It is probable then that , whereas , so that in Douglas ' case the observed value of in the case of walking movement would probably correspond with a value of in reference to cycling movement .
The Velocity Factor In the case of " " Douglas walking it is possible to compare with some interest the square root of the velocity factor on the one hand with the actual horizontal velocity or rate of progression on the other , and perhaps this is best done at first in reference to the most important " " economical rate\ldquo ; , when the cost of stride is least .
At the rate per second , since , therefore .
Again , since the length of a stride is metre , the horizontal velocity at the rate is , and is therefore metres per second .
For brevity , using the term in place of , it is seen that there is no great difference at this rate between and In general , the relation between and is such that the line intersects the curve at two points , where and where ; that is to say that , at rates not very different from and respectively , is equal to At intermediate values of the horizontal velocity is slightly the greater quantity , the maximal difference of metre per second being found at the rate 1.52 , that is to say , at a rate not very different from .
Beyond these points on either side of and the curve rapidly falls away from the line , so that becomes much greater than In short , although is not a tangent to , yet is such a tangent at the point where Vourn P ' There d. not seem , under these Man 's Efficiency in Work .
409 circumstances , any reason to hesitate before the possibility that , or , may finally be shown to have some definite relation to the acceleration or sum of accelerations lesponsible for the quasi-pendular movenlenOs from which the horizontal velocity is derived .
As a summary to the sections dealing , and } the velocity factor , it may be stated , then , as not improbable that the empirical formula , may finally be in rational form in some such manner as 0 .
Attention is to the fact that there appear , to definite order in the heat productions dealt with as " " cost of movement\ldquo ; no allowance is made for synchronous ' cost of rest The order developed dealing with the facts in this way is significant , in my opinion , of the influence of that control the central nervous system in the phenomena of a moment to correspond with the of that moment .
In my view " " rest\ldquo ; is an entit and not devoid of a dynamic fiaction , movement\ldquo ; is an entity of a different type , in which fraction is in the forefro1lt , and on vie everything occurring during moyement is related to eluent .
In short , the held that there is no rest\ldquo ; in movement , and some justification .
It is also held , and apparently has indeed been , that the cost of movement is identically the same whether the work performed by means is or small .
Att , ention also drawn to the importance of an economical rate\ldquo ; in movement as the phenomenon of major interest , and as decided by relationhips to bodily dimensions of an exact kind .
There is no sign , indeed , that other circumstances need be considered than ma and length in thi , connection .
Then , as to the efficiency\ldquo ; prevalent in the performance of movement , old seem to with the mass in motion , but the fact that this is the suggests at once the conception that thi .
; efficiency as it can be examined ) is not a genuine efficiency , is due to the complication of a ) erhaps , an absolute efficiency ( 100 per cent by unknown internal tance directly proportional to the engaged in accomplishing visible external work again proportional to , so that the cost varies with the square of the mass .
A similar point is even still more evident with regard to the efficiency of work performance In this as a different mechanical problem , VOL LXXXIX.\mdash ; B. 2 Mr. H. J. Watt .
erhaps as contrasted with quasi-pendular movement , exhibits an efficiency with the weight or mass in such a way that the cost is diminished by increase of mass , as if the different mechanical considerations involved in this separable process arranged the mass in the other pan of the scales of cost .
The Form of , Cochlea and its By HENIty J. WATT .
Communicated by Prof. D. Noel Paton , F.R.S. Received October 3 , 1916 .
) The work of this paper is based upon the photographic and descriptive material presented by Dr. A. A. Gray in his two volumes on The Labyrinth of Animals , ' published by J. and A. Churchill , London , in 1907 and I have succeeded in extracting from that impressive mass of material definite results that seem to be of some importance .
The dimensions of the cochlea measured by Dr. Gray are : ( 1 ) the diameter of the lowest whorl and ( 2 ) of the second whorl taken in a plane which passes vertically through the apex of the cochlea and the anterior margin of the round window ; ( 3 ) the diameter of the tube of the cochlea in front of the round window ; ( 4 ) the major axis of the oval window : ( 5 ) the slant height of the cochlea the distance from the upper margin of the round window to the apex of the organ ; and ( 6 ) the number of turns of the cochlea .
I found it desirable to add to these a measurement of the total length of the basilar membrane .
That must surely represent more closely directly than anything else the pitch-range of hearing .
Fortunately , close study of Gray 's wonderful photographs showed that an approximate measurement of the length of the basilar membrane ( as of the outside edge of the cochlear tube ) could be got from them .
The symmetrical shape of the cochlea makes it possible to measure the diameters of the successive whorls , no matter from what angle the raph was taken .
( The reader must consult Gray 's pictures .
) With the help of Gray 's measurements of the diameters of the first and second whorls , by close attention to the consistency of these with the dimensions visible in the .
photograph , and by a )

