Experiments for ascertaining how far Telescopes will enable us to determine very small Angles , and to distinguish the real from the spurious Diameters of celestial and terrestrial Objects : with an Application of the Result of these Experiments to a Series of Observations on the Nature and Magnitude of Mr. Harding 's lately discovered Star .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read December 6 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 31 .
] Dr. Herschel commences his paper by stating , that , being desirous of ascertaining the magnitude of the moving celestial body lately discovered by Mr. Harding , and intending , for that purpose , to make use of a ten-feet reflector , it appeared to him a desideratum highly worthy of investigation , to determine how small a diameter of an object might be seen with that instrument .
He had , he says , in April 1774 , determined a similar question relating to the natural eye ; and found that a square area could not be distinguished from an equal circular one till the diameter of the latter came to subtend an angle of 2 ' 17 " ; but , as he did not think it right to apply the same conclusions to a telescopic view of an object , he , in order to determine the first-mentioned question , made a series of experiments , of which the following is a summary account .
Dr. Herschel 's first experiment was made upon the heads of pins , the size of the largest of which was 1*375 , and that of the smallest '0425 of an inch .
These pins were placed at the distance of 2407 85 inches from the centre of the object-mirror of the author 's ten-feet telescope ; the focal length of the mirror of which , on Arcturus , is 119*64 inches , but on the objects above mentioned 125-9 .
Dr. Herschel soon found that none but the smallest of those objects could , at the distance at which they were placed , be of any use ; and that an object of that size , namely , *0425 of an inch , may be easily seen , in his telescope , to be a round body when the magnified angle under which it appears is 2 ' 18 " 9 , and that with a high power a part of it , subtending an angle of 0"`364 , may be conveniently perceived .
In the second experiment , Dr. Herschel made use of globules of sealing-wax .
These globules were of different sizes , from '0466 to '00763 : and the result of the experiment was , that , with a globule so small as -00763 of an inch of a substance not reflecting much light , the magnified angle must be between 4 and 5 minutes before we can perceive it to be round .
But it also appears that a telescope , with a sufficient power , will show the disc of a faint object when the angle it subtends , at the naked eye , is no more than 0'653 .
The third experiment was made with globules of silver , formed by running the ends of very fine silver wires into the flame of a candle .
The size of these globules was from *03956 to *00556 , and the distance of these objects from the mirror of the telescope was increased to 2370'5 inches .
By this experiment it was found that the telescope acted very well with a high power , and would show an object , subtending only 0"-484 , so large , that it might be divided into quarters of its diameter .
The fourth experiment was made with globules of pitch , bees ' wax , and brimstone .
From the two first-mentioned substanrces , no satisfactory inference could be drawn ; but when four globules of brimstone , the sizes of which were -00962 , -009125 , -00475 , -002375 , were viewed with a power of 522-7 , the three first appeared round the fourth was invisible till a dark blue paper was placed a few inches behind it .
The angle it subtended was 0"'207 .
The fifth experiment consisted in observing the globules of sealingwax and those of silver at a distance still greater , namely , 9620 4 inches , with a power of 502 : the smallest globules of the former substance were invisible at that distance ; but all the silver globules except the smallest ( which , having met with an accident , could not be examined , ) appeared round .
The sixth experiment was made by fixing some of the silver globules on a post , and illuminating them , by holding a lantern against them : with a power of 522 7 they were all seen perfectly well , but the light thrown on them was not sufficient to allow of making angular experiments upon them .
Dr. Herschel then , in order to investigate the causes of the spurious diameters of celestial objects , relates some observations made upon several of the fixed stars , from which he deduces the following inferences : 1 .
That the spurious diameters of the stars are larger than the 'real ones , which are too small to be seen .
2 .
That the spurious diameters are of different sizes ; but that , under the same circumstances , their dimensions are of a permanent nature .
3 .
That the spurious diameters are differently coloured , and that these colours are permanent when circumstances are the same .
4 .
That these diameters are proportionally lessened by increasing the magnifying power , and increase when the power is lowered .
5 .
That the above-mentioned increase and decrease is not inversely as the increase and decrease of the magnifying power , but in a much less ratio .
6 .
That the magnifying power acts unequally on spurious diameters of different magnitudes ; less on the large diameters , and more on the small ones .
7 .
That when the aperture of the telescope is lessened , it occasions an increase of the spurious diameters ; and when increased , reduces them .
8 .
That this increase and decrease is not proportional to the diameters of the stars , but that an alteration in the aperture of the telescope acts more upon small spurious diameters and less upon large ones .
9 .
That stars which are extremely small lose their spurious diameters , and become nebulous .
10 .
That many causes will influence the apparent diameter of the spurious discs of the stars ; but that , with a proper regard to those causes , the conclusion already drawn , that under the same circumstances their dimensions are permanent , still remains good .
A number of experiments then succeed on the spurious diameters of terrestrial objects .
The first series of these were made by means of the silver globules already mentioned .
The inferences drawn from them are similar to those drawn from the observations of celestial objects , except that the spurious discs of terrestrial objects , contrary to what happens with celestial ones , are smaller than the real discs , and that they are apt to be lost for want of proper illumination , but do not on that account change their magnitude .
Similar experiments were made with drops of quicksilver , the results of which differed so little from those of the experiments with globules of silver , as not to require any further description of them .
After two preparatory experiments , one with black and white circles , which showed that no material deception can take place in estimating by such circles , on account of their colour , and another , which showed that no difference in the apparent size of the globules was produced by a different mode of illuminating them in the microscope , Dr. Herschel proceeded to measure the spurious disc of one of the globules .
For this purpose , he viewed it with apertures of different dimensions and of different kinds .
Some of them being of the usual annular opening or outside rim , from 6-5 to 8'8 inches , which reflected less than half the light of the mirror , produced a spurious disc less than *18 in diameter ; while the whole light of the mirror gave a disc of *31 : he thinks it fair to conclude , that it is not the quantity of light , but the part of the mirror from which it is reflected , that we are to look upon as the cause of the magnitude of the spurious discs of objects ; and this , he says , points out an improved method of putting any terrestrial disc , that we suspect to be spurious , to the test : for the inside rays of a mirror will increase the diameter of those discs ; but the outside rays alone will have a greater effect in reducing it , than when the inside rays are left to join with them .
Dr. Herschel then placed two other globules at a small distance from each other , without having previously measured either their size or the distance between them .
Upon viewing them with a power of 522-7 , they appeared in the shape of half-moons ; he estimated the vacancy between the cusps to be one fourth the diameter of the largest ; and found afterwards , on measuring the diameters and distance , that his estimation did not differ oth of an inch from the truth .
In a second experiment the difference between the real and the estimated distance was still less .
In order to ascertain whether these half-moons were real or spurious , Dr. Herschel viewed them first with the inside rays of the mirror , then with the outside rays , and lastly , with the whole mirror open , but no alteration in the distance of the lunes could be perceived .
He then divided the aperture of the mirror into two parts , one from 0 to 4*4 inches , the other from 4*4 to 8-8 ; and found , on measuring the spurious diameter of a globule , that with the inside rays it was -40 ; with the whole mirror open it was *31 ; and with the outside rays it was *22 .
From this , he says , we may conclude , that the diameters given by the inside rays , by all the mirror open , and by the outside rays , are in an arithmetical progression ; and that the inside rays will nearly double the diameter given by the outside .
a Lyrae being then examined in the same manner , its spurious disc was found to be small with the outside rays ; with the whole mirror open it was larger ; and with the inside rays it was largest .
The double star a Geminorum was then viewed with a power of 410'5 ; with the outside rays they appeared unequal , and 1 diameter of the largest asunder ; with the whole mirror open they were more unequal , and 1I diameter of the largest asunder ; with the inside rays they were very unequal , and 1Z of the largest asunder .
The foregoing experiments show , the author says , that if it had not been known that the apparent discs of the stais were spurious , the application of the improved criterion of the aperture would have discovered them to be so ; and that , consequently , the same improvement is perfectly applicable to celestial objects .
Dr. Herschel , having made these preliminary experiments , proceeds to apply them to investigate the nature and magnitude of the star lately discovered by Mr. Harding .
A regular series of observations on this star are detailed , beginning on the 29th of September , and ending on the 11th of October .
Of these we must necessarily confine ourselves to mention merely the general result with the conclusions deduced by the author from the whole of the investigation .
These conclusions are as follows:1 .
A ten-feet reflector will show the spurious or real discs of celestial and terrestrial objects , when their diameter is one fourth of a second ; and in favourable circumstances that diameter may be divided , by estimation , into two or three parts .
2 .
A disc of the above diameter , whether spurious or real , to be seen as a round well-defined body , requires a magnifying power of 500 or 600 , and must be sufficiently bright to bear that power .
3 .
A real disc of half a second in diameter will be so magnified by the above-mentioned power , that it may be easily distinguished from a spurious one of equal size , the latter not being affected by magnifying power in the same proportion as the former .
4 .
The different properties of the inside and outside rays of a mirror , with regard to the appearance of a disc , will show whether it is real or spurious , provided its diameter is more than one-fourth of a second .
5 .
When discs , either spurious or real , are less than one fourth of a second in diameter , they cannot be distinguished from each other , because the magnifying power is not sufficient to make them appear round and well defined .
6 .
The same kind of experiments are applicable to telescopes of different sorts and sizes , but will give a different result for the quantity here stated at one fourth of a second , being more when the instrument is less perfect , and less when it is more so .
The general results of Dr. Herschel 's observations on Mr. Harding 's newly discovered celestial body , to which the name of Juno has been given , are,1 .
That it is in every respect similar to those discovered by Mr. Piazzi and Dr. Olbers , so that Ceres , Pallas , and Juno , are certainly three individuals of the same species .
2 .
That these bodies ( the last of which appears to be the smallest , ).are incomparably smaller than any of the planets ; for a telescope that will show a diameter of one fourth of a second , will not determine whether their discs are real or spurious , although a power of more than 600 has been applied to each of them .
3 .
That the criterion of the apertures of the mirror has , on account of the smallness of the object , been equally unsuccessful ; every method that has been tried only proving their resemblance to small stars .
4 .
That the definition of the term asteroid , formerly given by Dr. Herschel , will equally express the nature of Juno , which , on account of its similar situation between Mars and Jupiter , and its departure from the general condition of planets , by the smallness of its disc , and the great inclination and eccentricity of its orbit , may also be considered as a true asteroid .
Dr. Herschel concludes by observing , that the specific difference between planets and asteroids appears now , by the addition of a third individual of the latter species , to be more fully established ; and that circumstance , he thinks , has added more to the ornamrent of our system , than the discovery of another planet could have done .

