On a " Rennet " Ferment .
1883 .
] become negative in the metal and liquid ones ( viz. , only 73 out of 286 in weak solutions , and 48 out of the same number in strong ones ) , we may conclude that the metals more frequently than the liquids have the greatest thermo-electric influence , and also that the relative largeness of the number of instances of thermo-electro-positive metals in the series of metals and liquids , as in the series of metals only , is partly a consequence of the circumstance , that rise of temperature usually makes substances , metals in particular , electro-positive .
These statements are also consistent with the view that the elementary substances lose a portion of their molecular activity when they unite to form acids or salts , and that electrolytes therefore have usually a less degree of molecular motion than the metals of which they are composed .
The current from a thermo-couple of metal and liquid , therefore , may be viewed as a united result of difference of molecular motion , first of the two junctions , and second of the two heated ( or cooled ) substances ; and in all cases , both , of thermo- and chemico-electric action , the immediate true cause of the current is the original molecular vibrations of the substances , whilst contact is only a static permitting condition .
Also , that whilst in the case of thermo-electric action , the sustaining cause is molecular motion supplied by an external source of heat , in the case of chemico-electric action it is the motion lost by the metal and liquid , when chemically uniting together .
The direction of the current in thermo-electric cases appears to depend upon which of the two substances composing a junction increases in molecular activity the fastest by rise of temperature , or decreases the most rapidly by cooling .
In a separate paper " On some Relations of Chemical Corrosion to Voltaic Currents , " the author has investigated the amounts of external voltaic current produced by the corrosion of known weights of various metals at atmospheric temperature .
V. " On a 'Rennet ' Ferment contained in the Seeds of Withania coagnlans .
" By Sheridan Lea , M.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge ; Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received November 20 , 1883 .
The Report of the Royal Gardens at Kew for 1881 contains abstracts of correspondence , in which it was pointed out that , in order to introduce a cheese-making industry in India , some vegetable substitute must be found for the ordinary animal rennet , since cheese made with the latter is unsaleable among the natives .
In response to the above \#166 ; " Surgeon-Major Aitchison brought to the notice of the autho56 Mr. S. Lea .
[ Nov. 22 , rities at Kew that the fruit of Punee coagulans , a shrub common ia Afghanistan and Northern India , possesses the properties of coagulating milkand experiments showed that an aqueous extract of the seed-capsules of the above plant does somewhat rapidly coagulate milk .
I was recently requested to make some experiments on the seeds of Withania to determine whether they contain a definite ferment with the properties of ordinary rennet , and the applicability of such a ferment to cheese-making purposes .
The material supplied to me consisted of an agglomerated dry mass of seed-capsules and fragments of the stalks of the plant .
When crushed in a mortar the whole crumbled down into a coarse powder , in which the seeds were for the most part liberated from the capsules .
I picked out the larger pieces of stalk , sifted out the finer particles , chiefly earth and fragments of the capsules , and then by a further sifting I separated the seeds from the other larger particles .
The seeds appeared to be each enveloped in a coating of resinous material , presumably the dried juice of the capsules in which they had ripened .
Taking equal weights of the seeds , I extracted them for twenty-four hours with equal volumes of ( i ) water , ( ii ) 5 per cent , sodic chloride , ( iii ) 2 per cent , hydrochloric acid , ( iv ) 3 per cent , sodic carbonate .
Equal volumes of each of the above were added in an acid , alkaline , and neutral condition , to equal volumes of milk , and heated in a water-bath at 38 ' C. The milk was rapidly coagulated by the salt and sodic carbonate extracts , much less rapidly by the other two ; of the four , the salt extract was far the most rapid in its action .
All subsequent experiments have shown that a 5 per cent , solution of sodic chloride is the most efficient in the extraction of the active principle from the seeds .
There is no ddubt that the substance which possesses the coagulating power is a ferment closely resembling animal rennet .
I. A portion of the 5 per cent , sodic chloride extract loses its activity if boiled for a minute or two .
II .
The active principle is soluble in glycerine , and can be extracted from the seeds by this means ; the extract possesses strong coagulating powers even in small amounts .
III .
Alcohol precipitates the ferment body from its solutions ; and the precipitate , after washing with alcohol , may be dissolved up again without having lost its coagulating powers .
IV .
The active principle of the seeds will cause the .
coagulation of milk when present in very small quantities , the addition of more of the ferment simply increasing the rapidity of the change .
* The genus Puneeria is now reduced by botanists to Withania .
On a " Rennet " Ferment .
1883 .
] V. The coagulation is not due to the formation of acid by the ferment .
If some of the active extract be made neutral or alkaline and added to neutral milk , a normal clot is formed , and the reaction of the clot remains neutral or faintly alkaline .
VI .
The clot formed by the action of the ferment is a true clot , resembling in appearance and properties that formed by animal rennet , and is not a mere precipitate .
Having thus determined the presence of a rennet ferment in the seeds , I endeavoured to prepare an active extract , which should be applicable for cheese-making purposes .
All the extracts of the seeds e , re of a deep brown colour , and it appeared , therefore , in the first place , desirable to obtain less highly coloured , if not colourless , solutions , which should still be active .
In this I have so far failed .
The precipitate caused by alcohol carries down the chief part of the colouring-matter also , so that on being subsequently redissolved the solution is nearly as highly coloured as before the precipitation , The .colour can be removed by using animal charcoal , but the ferment is at the same time destroyed .
If all excess of charcoal is avoided and the solution is filtered at once , the filtrate is largely decolorised , but \#166 ; contains only traces of the ferment .
Animal rennet is similarly removed by filtration through charcoal .
The colour can be removed by the addition of very finely-powdered kaolin in a dry state , but , as before , the ferment activity is thereby destroyed .
The same holds good of animal rennet .
The colouring-matter is scarcely soluble in either ether or alcohol , so that no advantage is gained by a preliminary treatment with these before extraction with the salt solution .
I have also endeavoured to get rid of the colour by treating the seeds as rapidly as possible with successive quantities of water before making the final extract .
By using a centrifugal machine I was able to wash the seeds six or seven times with large volumes of water without their being exposed for any considerable time to the action of the water .
Each portion of water was highly coloured and the seeds were thus freed from adherent colouring-matter .
But , apart from the fact that some , though not much , ferment is thus lost , no special advantage is obtained , since the seeds are themselves coloured , and \#166 ; even after prolonged treatment with water the final extract is always of a dark brown colour .
In order to obviate the disadvantages of this colouring-matter , if disadvantage it is , I have found it best to prepare very concentrated active extracts of the purified seeds , so that it should only be necessary to add a very small quantity of the extract in order to coagulate the milk and obtain a colourless curd .
This I have done by grinding the dry seeds very finely in a mill and extracting them for twenty-four hours with such a volume of 5 per cent , sodic chloride solution that the mass is still fluid after the absorption of water by the fragments On a " Rennet " Ferment .
[ Nov. 22 , of the seeds as they swell up .
From this mass the fluid part may be readily separated by using a centrifugal machine ( such as is used in sugar refining ) , and it can then be easily filtered through filter-paper ; without the centrifugal machine the separation of the fluid from the residue of the seeds is tedious and imperfect , 40 grms. of the seeds treated as above with 150 cub. centims. of 5 per cent , 'sodic chloride solution gave an extract of which 0*25 cub. centim. clotted 20 cub. centims. of milk in twenty-five minutes , and 0*1 cub. centim. clotted a similar portion of milk in one hour .
When added in these proportions the curd formed is quite white .
The presence of the colouring-matter is , howeyer , perhaps on the whole unimportant , since even if a larger quantity of the ferment extract is added in order to obtain a very rapid coagulation the colouring-matter is obtained chiefly in the whey , the curd being white.* The question of preparing an extract which should be capable of being kept for a considerable time is perhaps of importance .
Ordinary commercial rennet usually contains a large amount of sodic chloride and some alcohol .
One specimen I analysed contained 19 per cent , of common salt , and 4 per cent , of alcohol .
I have , therefore , added to the 5 per cent , chloride extract mentioned above , , enough salt to raise the percentage of this to 15 per cent. , and also alcohol up to 4 per cent. The activity of the extract is not appreciably altered by this , and such a preparation corresponds very closely in activity with a commercial solution of animal rennet with which I compared it .
The possibility of making extracts which may be expected to keep is thus indicated , but of course time alone will show whether the activity of the ferment is impaired to any important extent by such keeping .
I may add in conclusion that I have coagulated a considerable volume of milk with an extract such as I have described , and prepared a cheese from the curds .
I have also given a portion of the extract to a professional cheese-maker who has used it as a substitute for animal rennet in the preparation of a cheese .
The product thus obtained , and the statements of the person who has made the experiment for me , lead me to suppose that extracts of the seeds of Withania can be used as an adequate and successful substitute for animal rennet .
* It is extremely probable that some stage in the growth or " ripening of the seeds of Withania might be found at which the development of colouring-matter is slight , while at the same time the ferment is present in considerable quantity .

