252 Mr. W. Bosenhain .
[ May 1 The authors hope that these experiments may prove of use in afford ing an indication of the comparative behaviour of this " apio-To-KpaMa " or noblest metal platinum , with the behaviour of the constructive metals , copper , nickel , iron and steel , when under the influence of stress ; and the experiments have also shown that the microscopic in fluences of stress in the heavy metal platinum are analogous to thos* which have been observed in metals of lower specific gravity .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Fig- 1 .
-Microscopic Effects of Compression Stress on Platinum , showing Crystal* line Slip , as seen in Section .
Magnification 120 diameters .
Vertical illumination .
Metal compressed 10 per cent. Arrow indicates direo-tion of compressive force .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Microscopic Effects of Compression Stress on Platinum , showing Crystal* line Slip , as seen in Section .
Magnification 120 diameters .
Vertical illumination .
Metal compressed 10 per cent. Arrow indicates direc* tion of compressive force .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Same as fig. 2 , but magnified 250 diameters .
" A Note on the Eecrystallisation of Platinum .
" By Walter Eosenhain , B.A. ( Cantab .
) , B.C.E. ( Melbourne ) .
Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.E.S. Eeceived May 1 , \#151 ; Bead .
May 15 , 1902 .
In a recent paper* Professor Ewing and the present author have described phenomena of recrystallisation in a number of metals , such as lead , tin , zinc , and cadmium , at temperatures well below the melting points of those metals .
I have recently observed phenomena which appear to me to be of a very similar nature in the case of platinum .
It is a well-known fact that a prolonged exposure to a high temperature renders platinum brittle , and that the surface of such platinum , , when it has been exposed to flame , shows markings " resembling the-appearance of galvanised iron .
" f This phenomenon has generally been ascribed to the action of carbon , and by one author specifically to the action of acetylene . !
Having studied the phenomena closely with the-aid of the microscope , I do not find this view entirely confirmed .
In the first place , on examining the surface of the " changed " ' platinum with the microscope , it is seen to show a pattern which is .
* " , On the Crystalline Structure of Metals , " second paper , * Phil. Trans. , ' A , .
1900 , vol. 195 , pp. 279\#151 ; 301 .
t " The Action of the Acetylene Flame on Platinum , " J. J. Redwood , ' Soc* Cliem .
Industry Journ. , ' vol. 17 , p. 1107 j also 'Zeitschrift fur Analyt .
Chem. , ' 1901 , heft 6 , p. 411 .
1902 .
] J_ Note on the Recrystallisation of Platinum .
253 characteristic of the etched surface of a crystalline metal .
The micrographic appearance under oblique light is shown , magnifiedl 30 diameters , in the photograph ( fig. 1 ) .
This was taken from the surface FlG .
1 .
Surface of a Platinum Crucible after prolonged heating .
Oblique light .
Magnification , 30 diameters .
of a platinum crucible which has been in continuous use and is frequently exposed for hours together to an ordinary blowpipe flame .
A closer examination revealed a multitude of geometrical pits ( Aetzfi-guren ) , clearly demonstrating that the appearance is due to genuine metallic crystals which have been on the surface by some chemical agent .
Two other experimental facts confirm this idea .
The first is that if a piece of platinum showing the " changed " surface be exposed to the action of aqua-regia , the appearance is intensified and brightened .
If , as has been suggested , the appearance were due to a superficial layer of a platinum-carbon compound from which the carbon had been driven off , leaving mere pseudomorphs of platinum , the etching action of the aqua-regia would have dimmed the appearance instead of brightening it .
Another objection to the carbonisation theory is to be found in the fact that I have produced the effect on a new platinum crucible by prolonged heating in an oxygen injector furnace , where an oxidising atmosphere was being maintained .
The " changed " platinum is , moreover , very weak and brittle when hot , and on one occasion a crucible was torn whilst still red hot , but after being removed from the flame .
The fracture was as crystalline 254 Capt. H. B. Jackson .
Phenomena [ May f as that of " brittle " zinc , and the lines of fracture ran across the crystals revealed on the changed surface in such a way as to show that these crystals seen on the surface are not a thin superficial layer , but genuinely represent the entire structure of the metal .
I am therefore led to the conclusion that the action is simply one of recrystallisation .
The metal in the state in which it reaches us in ion or crucibles , \amp ; c. , is in a condition of severe strain , having been bent drawn , rolled , \amp ; c. , either in the cold or at temperatures far below its " annealing " temperature .
This is supported by the fact that the platinum in its " unchanged " state shows a very minute structure characteristic of severely strained metals .
The natural effect of exposure to a high temperature of metal in such a condition is to allow it to recrystallise , and this I conceive to be what occurs in the case of platinum .
The brittleness of the " annealed " metal is not at all surprising , as the same phenomenon occurs with zinc and cadmium ( see paper cited above ) .
In the case of platinum " annealed " in a gas flame there is , however , a further action * simple annealing or recrystallisation , although it will completely alter the interior structure of a piece of metal , will not of itself alter the appearance of the surface even in microscopic detail .
To develop a surface pattern corresponding to the changed internal structure the surface must be etched after the recrystallisation has taken place .
The etching action is in this case undoubtedly due to the gases of the flame , and the temporary formation of a carbide may play a part in this process .
" On some Phenomena affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves over the Surface of the Sea and Earth .
" By Captain H. B. Jackson , R.N. , E.R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read May 15 , 1902 .
In 1895 , systematic experiments were commenced by me with a view of utilising the effect of Hertzian waves on imperfect electrical contacts , for naval signalling purposes .
I soon observed that some unexpected phenomena were deterrent ; factors in obtaining the necessary accuracy at all times , and with the most modern and improved instruments that we now possess , this is equally noticeable .
The results of some of the phenomena are described in this paper , with the conclusions that I have drawn as to their cause .
Some of the experiments described were specially conducted with the object of elucidating definite results on the subject .
Other experi-\#151 ; ments carried out with a different object , and also ordinary practical signalling at various times , also gave the results described , without in

