The reading of Mr. Ilarris 's paper was resumed in continuation .
April 24 , 1834 .
DAVIES GILBERT , Esq. , D.C.L. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The reading of Mr. Ilarris 's paper was concluded .
For the purpose of determining several questions relative to the forces exerted by bodies in different states of electricity , the author contrived an electroscope of peculiar construction , and also an electrometer , both of which he minutely describes ; and in order to obtain a unit of measure , in estimating the quantity of electrical accumu ?
lation , instead of transmitting the electricity evolved by the machine immediately from its conductor to the battery to be charged , he interposes between them a coated jar , furnished with a discharging electrometer , so that the quantity of charges that have passed through it may be estimated by the number of explosions occurring in the process of accumulation .
By increasing or diminishing the distance between the discharging balls , the value of the unit may at pleasure be rendered great or small .
A series of experiments is described , showing that when a given quantity of electricity is divided among any number of perfectly similar conductors , the attractive force , as measured by the electrometer , is inversely as the square of that number ; and if different quantities of electricity be communicated to the same conductor , their attractive forces are directly as the squares of those quantities .
The author observes that the electrical force exerted by one body on another is always diminished by the vicinity of a neutral body ; an effect which is analogous to the operation of screens in diminish ?
ing the force of a revolving magnet on metallic disks , as noticed by him in a former paper , published in the Philosophical Transactions .
It appears , thus , that there is , in all these cases , a portion of electricity , which is inasked , and not apprcciable by the electrometer .
x The author proposes to distinguish the terms tension and intensity , as applied to electricity ; expressing by the first , the actual elastic force of a given quantity , accumulated in a given space ; and by the second , the action of that part which is in a state of freedom , and which is in ?
dicated by its effects on the electrometer .
Experiments are next related , which were made for the purpose of showing the incorrectness of the explanation of the above fact proposed by Mr. Singer , namely , that it depends on the electrical action of the atmosphere .
In the transmission of electricity between conductors placed at a distance , the quantity required to produce a dis ?
charge is directly as the distance ; and conversely , the distance is directly as the quantity .
This distance will , therefore , be a measure of the tension ; whereas the attractive force , as indicated by the elec ?
trometer , is a measure of intensity only .
Another conclusion deduced from this train of reasoning is , that the resistance of the atmosphere to the passage of electricity is not really greater through any one discharging distance than through another , and is in no case greater than the existing atmospheric pressure ; and it was found by direct experiment , that the distance through which a given accumulation of electricity could be discharged , is inversely as the density of the in ?
terposed air .
When this air preserved its density unaltered , the ele ?
vation of its temperature produced no difference in its power of controlling the escape of electricity ; hence it is concluded that heated air is no otherwise a conductor of electricity , than in as much as it has thereby become rarefied ; but heat applied to solid conductors was found to diminish their conducting powers .
The electrical capacities of conducting bodies of different shapes was the subject of inquiry .
In plates having the form of parallelograms , the relative capacities , when the areas are constant , are in ?
versely as the sum of the length and breadth ; and when this latter sum is constant , the capacity is inversely as the area .
The capacity of a plane circle differs but little from that of a square having the same area ; nor does it make any difference if the plates be turned into cylinders , or prisms with any number of sides ; and the capacity of a sphere or cylinder is the same as that of a plane equal to it in superficial extent .
The author proceeds to investigate some laws relating to the action of electricity , when resulting from induction ; and particularly that of the relation between electrical attraction and distance ; adducing experiments in confirmation of the former being in the inverse duplicate ratio of the latter .
The attraction actually exhibited between two equal spheres , he considers as composed of a system of parallel forces , operating in right lines between the homologous points of the opposed hemisphere .
The author concludes by various observations on the transmission of electricity to bodies in vacuo , from which he infers the fallacy of all explanations of the phenomena of electrical repulsion , founded on the supposed action of the atmosphere .

