]\gt ; The of Ships : Study of Certain Series of Model Experiments .
By T. H. HAVELOCK , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Armstrong College , Newcastle-on-Tyne .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir Joseph Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received June 7 , \mdash ; Read June 23 , 1910 .
) 1 .
In a previous communication*I proposed a formula for the wavemaking resistance of ships , and showed that it expressed certain genel'al qualities of experimental results ; further , notwithstanding the limitations of theory and the difficulty of interpretation of experimental data , a good numerical reement was found in several cases with the published results of tank experiments on models when suitable numerical values were given to the coefficients in the formula .
This paper records the results of a more systematic study of the numerical values of some of the coefficients , the data being taken from certain recent series of experiments ; for the present the discussion is limited to those types of model whose resistance-speed curves show clearly the humps and hollows which are attributed to interference of wave-systems at the bow and stern .
It has been remarked that although the mode of disturbance is different , the action of the bows of a ship may be roughly compared to that of a travelling pressure-point , and further , that the stern may be regarded in the same way as a negative pressure-point .
This point of view originated in the well-known paper of W. on the effect of the length of parallel middle body , and the theory was developed in a later paper by B. E. FroudeS ; from an inspection of experimental results it was seen that the variations in magnitude and position of the oscillations were in directions which agreed the above interpretation .
On account of the lack of an adequate formula , the available data have not yet been examine ed numerically in any detail ; the present investigation aims at supplying this in some measure .
Section 2 is theoretical , with some necessary repetition of previous work ; Sections 3 and 4 contain a numerical analysis of some available experimental curves .
In Section 5 an attempt is made to estimate the effective horse-power of the " " Turbinia in order to illustrate certain points ; while in Section 6 the limitations of the interference theory , in the ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1909 , , vol. 82 , p. 276 .
H. Lamb , ' Hydrodynamics , ' 3rd edition , p. 414 . .
Froude , ' Trans. Inst. Nav .
Arch 1877 , vol. 17 .
S R. E. Froude , ' Trans. Inst. Nav .
Arch 1881 , vol. 22 .
VOL. LXXXIV .
1910 .
] The Resistance of Ships .
properties of a ship in terms of the coefficients of a simple equivalent pressure distribution of the type specified .
Another point which must be noted is that the previous expression is obtained by considering two-dimensional motion only ; but the bow and stern of a ship act more like point disturbances than as transverse line systems , hence there are diverging , as well as transverse , waves .
In default of a fuller analysis , I have suggested for certain reasons the addition to of a term it is retained for the present , because it indicates the necessity for some expression of the ying waves and it agrees with certain general properties of them , and also in several cases it allows us to obtain better numerical agreement at lower speeds .
We suppose that is expressed in pounds per ton displacement of the ship , also is the speed in knots , the of the ship on the water line in feet , and is equal to ; then we have lbs. per ton , ( 2 ) where and In the examples attention is directed chiefly to the variations of and , and incidentally to those of and .
The length cannot be taken directly as the length of the entrance or run of the ship , for it will depend also on the lines of the model ; but one may expect the ratio to decrease as the slope of the model at the bow is increased , and conversely ; similarly the number will vary in a direction which may be predicted .
In the previous paper sufficient agreement was found when and were fixed values ; in many cases the mean curve of residuary resistance appeared to have a point of inflection near , and for this we had ; further , the humps and hollows reed with for the angle in radians , or for the angle in degrees .
With none of the coefficients fixed beforehand , it is necessary to adopt some method of approximation .
Drawing the experimental curve of residuary resistance on a suitable scale , a fair mean curve was sketched in and an equation was found , generally by graphical methods , to fit this as closely as possible ; in fact it was the original intention to limit the study to the two leading coefficients A and so determined .
The value of is now fixed , and from the intersections of the mean curve with the actual oscillating curve one could a value to with sufficient accuracy .
Finally the three remaining quantities were found from three points on the actual curve , for example , at , if the curve extended so far .
In practice the lowest point determines , for the term in is negligible there ; for the same reason the values of and are more satisfactory when fairly high values of are available .
In all cases the 1910 .
] The Wave-making of Ships .
The index of the exponential increases htly with the displacement , that is , with increasing beam and drafC ; this variation is in the direction one might anticipate , as it indicates a greater diffusion of the pressure .
In regard to the coefficients specifying the interference between 1910 .
] The Wave-making Ships .
203 Table II contains the results for a set of four models of .
displace- meant , together with other data ; the corresponding curves are shown in fig. 2 in the same manner as before .
From the curyes in fig. 2 , it will be seen that the calculated curves express the general variations in the manner anticipated above .
The numerical agreement is best throughout the range for Model , while for the other curves the agreement at lower values of is not so good ; this appears to be 1910 .
] The Wave-making Resistance of Ships .
5 .
The curves in the previous sections have been examined chiefly from a theoretical point of view , that is , with the object of testing in these cases the general adequacy of a certain type of simple equivalent pressure distribution .
One might try also to classify the coefficients of the formula , so as to obtain empirical expressions for them in relation to the form of cases , should be nearly 3 ; as we shall calculate quantities for the exponential only varies slowly with , so that , with cient approximation .
Under the same conditions we take and , also .
Calculating from formula 2 ) with these values , we obtain an estimate of 410 for the effective horse-power of the ship at 31 knots due to wave-making , with the possibility of this being slightly in defect ; any of the usual approximate formulae , with simple powers of the speed , when extended to this high value of give possibly twice this estimate , a result which is much too high .
If we take the area of wetted surface ( S ) as 970 square feet and the frictional coefficient as , we may calculate the frictional effective horse-power from the expression ; it is 470 at 31 knots .
We obtain thus an approximate estimate of 880 for the total effective horse-power of the ship at 31 knots .
It is stated in the record referred to above that the total effective horse-power at 31 knots is 946 , C. A. Parsons , ' Trans. Inst. Nav .
Arch 1897 , , p. 232 .
etails oalculation aiven Although tstimate above inlyobtained broude , ethod fxperiments omodel o approximate , another possible factor should be noted ; this is the influence of the finite depth of the tank .
It has been staved that , from recorded experimental data , this effect becomes appreciable when the length of the waves FS exceeds twice the depth ; this means approximately when being : the depth of water and bhe lengbh of the model .
This appears to with the of fig. 11 of my previous paper , which were obtained from theoretical considerations .
The effect of shallow water is an excessive increase in the resistance for a considerable range , but if the speed is made high enough the resistance may become even less than in deep water at the same speed .
It seems possible that the tank experiments quoted above come within the range of excess of transverse wave-making resistance .
It is stated that , assuming a propulsive coefficient of 60 per cent. , the value of 946 means a corresponding indicated horse-power of ; it may be noted that the estimate of 880 corresponds to the same indicated horse-power with an efficiency of about 56 per cent. In this connection the following remark may be quoted from a recent discussion : " " Is it possible that this is one contributing cause to the propulsive coefficients obtained by torpedo craft compared with those obtained in full-sized vessels , , that the tank effective horse-power of torpedo craft models is over-rated , because of excessive transverse wave- making resistance in the ' shoal water ' of the tank\ldquo ; 6 .
It must be noted that all the preceding calculations refer to rather fullended models , that is , with a cylindrical coefficient of about and upwards .
It was upon such a type that the original experiments of Froude were performed , and it seems that the characteristic interference effects occur specially in such vessels , the latter are associated with the idea of two fairly distinct of pressure disturbance at bow and stern respectively .
Now if the ends are made finer it is reasonable to imagine the two systems coalescing into what could be more accurately interpreted as one pressure system .
This would be more diffused over the length of the ship , so the equivalent index should be larger ; further , since for constant displacement finer ends mean larger beam and draft , the limiting coefficient should be larger .
Consequently , for decreasing cylindrical coefficient , at constant displacement , the curves of residuary resistance should be intersecting curves , lower at low speeds and then ultimately .
This is illustrated in the curves in fig. 4 , which have been superposed to show the point in question .
The curves are taken from a series of 1000-1b .
models by D. W. Taylor , of * E. Wilding , ' Trans. Inst. Nav .
Arch 1909 , vol. 51 , p. 160 .
The Wave-making Resistance of Ships .
constant midship-section coefficient , and with the ratio of beam to draft ; the cylindrical coefficients are , and The curve with a coefficient of is represent quite well by formula ( 2 ) with ; the circles represent calculated points .
The typical oscillations are clearly visible in this curve , but they appear to be absent altogether from the other two curves ; the general character of the latter curves is in accordance with the remarks made above .
One may even obtain some numerical agreement with zero and larger values of and , but it is unsatisfactory without a further examination of intermediate stages and their equivalent pressure distributions ; another point is that with a larger value of the first term in the formula , which represents the diverging waves , becomes more important , and adds another reason for deferring the study of finer-ended models .

