A paper was read , entitled , " On the Tides .
" By John William Lubbock , Esq. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. &amp;c. Since the author presented his last paper on the tides to the Society , his attention has been directed to ascertain the three following points : namely , 1st , Whether , from the discussion of the Liverpool observations with reference to a previous transit , these observations present the same kind of agreement with Bernouilli 's theory as those of Lon ?
don : 2ndly , Whether , by taking into account a greater number of observations , the results given in his last paper remain sensibly un ?
altered : and 3rdly , Whether the establishment of the Port of London varies sensibly in different years ; and whether the removal of the old London bridge has occasioned any difference .
In order to elucidate these points , he procured the assistance of Mr. Jones and Mr. Russell to compute numerous tables ; employing for that purpose a further sum of money placed at his disposal with this view by the British Association for the Advancement of Science .
The results contained in the tables here presented , are all laid down in diagrams , on the same plan as those contained in his last paper , by which means they are much more readily understood .
The author finds that the semi ?
menstrual correction for the interval at Liverpool presents the same agreement with observation as had been before noticed ; while the form or law of the semi-menstrual correction for the height is also the same as that indicated by the observations ; but in order to render the agreement complete it would be necessary to change the epoch , or to make a slight movement of the theory-curve in the diagrams .
This remarkable difference also obtains in the London semi-menstrual cor ?
rection for the height .
The calendar month inequality at Liverpool , considered as result ?
ing implicitly from the corrections due to changes in the declinations of the luminaries , and in the sun 's parallax , agrees generally with Bernouilli 's theory , and with the results deduced from the London observations given in the author 's last paper .
The author finds that the Establishment of the Port of London has been subject to changes even since the beginning of the present century , and he notices the difficulty of predicting the time of high water with accuracy unless these changes can be accounted for .
He also cites a very ancient Tide Table , from which it would appear that formerly the time of high water at London was an hour later than it is at present .

