Some Inquiries and Suggestions concerning Salt for Domestic Uses ; and concerning Sheep , to preserve them , and to Improve the Race of Sheep for hardiness , and for the finest Drapery .
In a Letter from Doctor John Beal to the Publisher .
1 .
SALT gives the savour and gust to all our Diet ; and would be the best and surest Prevention against the Rot of Sheep , if it could be had at Easy Rates upon the Downs ; for which England is generally most concerned : For , Sheep do support our great Staple-trade , as is implied in the Proverb , That London-bridge hath Wool for the Foundation , and that our Senators in Parliament do sit on Wool-sacks .
Therefore I here annex and intermingle the Consideration of Salt and Sheep , as most necessary commodities , and not out of the Road of your Useful Philosophy ; nor by you omitted in your Ph. Transactions .
Against the Rot in Sheep Spanish Salt is recommended Numb. 100 : and the means to get Salt is described or suggested Numb. 51 , 53 , 54 , 66 , 102 .
2 .
From the last of which I will begin to solicit these further Inquiries : At what places about Lemington in Hampshire Salt is made ?
What Quantity is made there ?
Whether any Salt is made in the Isle of Wight , or in the Isles of Jersey or Guernsey , or any Isles or Coasts belonging to England , Scotland , or Ireland ?
And what is the peculiar accommodation in Lemington , which occurs not on other Coasts ?
What kind of Salt , white or bay , &amp; c ?
And , if it might be obtained from a trusty friend , to know , what is the gain by each Copper at Lemington ; the Proportion of the Copper ; how many workmen for one or more Coppers ; what their Wages , and what other Charges ?
To the purpose , that where the Wages or other Charges are less , and the Accommodation not wanting , the supply for the Neighbourhood , or as the Seas and Rivers may convey the Salt , may be encouraged .
Note , that the Brine at Nantwich , contains a Third , or Fourth , or when least , a Sixth Part of Salt .
3 .
Mr. Winthorp by Letter told you , that he had the Way of making good Salt in New-England in great abundance and at easy rates .
They complain , that great wages are required there ; which does much retard their Building of Ships and their Iron-works ; which would otherwise do them great Service , and do a necessary Kindness to this Kingdom at present , if applied to save our Timber , which begins to be scarce .
And Salt is requisite for their great Advantages by Fishery , if they have learnt to cure their Cod and Sturgeon , of which they have abundance on their Coasts and Isles ; and they have the nearest approach to secure the English Interest on Newfoundland , and for the Fishery on the Bank .
Under one you may inquire , what Accommodations they have , or what Helps for Salt about New-York , or other Places in that Continent , or in any Isles of the English Colonies .
If a sufficient Sunshine and Industry be not wanting in Ireland , I cannot guess what should hinder them to have abundance of Salt for themselves , and their Fishery , and for others , since they cannot want Workmen , and their Wages ( as I am informed ) not great , if compared with the usual Demands in South-England .
4 .
In Varro 's Days it was the Reproach of our Transalpines ( who dwelt much farther towards the South than we do ) that on the Rhine there were then neither Vines , nor Olives , nor Apples , nor Sea-Salt , nor Fossil-Salt , but were driven to the poor Shift of using Burnt-wood for their Salt : Ubi nec Vitis , nec Olea , nec Poma nascerentur ; ubi Salem nec fossilem nec maritimum haberent , sed ex quibusdam lignis combustis , carbonibus salsis pro eo uterentur .
Varro de re Rust .
l. 1 .
c. 7 .
The World is , as to those Things , much amended ( since those Days ) on this side the Alps : And the English may yet be minded to proceed , as far as they can , to remove the Reproach ; at least for Fruit , Wine , and Salt .
Cato c.88 .
teaches diligently , how to make vulgar Salt ( popularem Salem ) purely white .
Columella l. 12 .
c. 53 .
shows , How to order our Bacon and our Salt ( cocto Sale , nec nimium minuto , sed suspensa mola infracto , diligenter salito , ) for our delicate Gammons , &amp;c. and there instructs , How to boil Salt , and how to season the several Parts of Bacon .
And l. 6 .
c. 1 .
for Application to sore Eyes ( a curious Point ) he prefers Salem-Montanum , Hispanum , vel Ammoniacum , vel etiam Cappadocum , minute tritum , &amp; immistum melli .
All our good Housewives do find a great Difference between our common Bay-Salt , and the several other Salts , which are in ordinary Use amongst us .
We find some white Salt very faint ; and the Price imports a Difference between Spanish , French , and Portugal Salt .
5 .
The Illustrious Palladius , who wrote about the Year 350 , and had his ample Manors or Territories in Italy , Naples and Sardinia , and thereby had great Experience in Sheep , seems to give sure Rules , How to preserve the Flocks sound ; November .
Tit .
13 .
Sect. 2 .
Among his Adviso 's he saith , Salis tamen crebra conspersio , vel pascuis mista , vel canalibus frequenter oblata , debet pecoris levare fastidium .
All these Three , Palladius , Varro , and Columella , do give insallible Instructions for the Preservation of our Flocks ; but the Rules cannot be observed by those that have the greatest Flocks : To change Pastures often , to be supplied in rainy Seasons with dry Fodder , to lick salted Troughs , to have some turns in Salt-Marshes : The Words of Palladius l. cit. are , Pascua ovillo generi utilia sunt , quae vel in novalibus , vel in pratis siccioribus excitantur , palustria vero noxia sunt .
And Gabr .
Prat .
from his own , and his Ancestors Experience of 80 Years , bids us take heed of the pregnant Verdure , when much Rain falls in the vernal Months of April , and May : And all Sheep-masters are afraid of rainy Autumns .
But whence shall the Relief be had ?
The Charge will be heavy , if the same Fodder be provided for every Year , and the destroying Years do surprise us .
I hear , that about Salisbury some do plough up a few Acres , and sow a Kind of Pulse , which they there call Tilth .
And now we have in England so many Kinds of French Seeds , and French Grass , that one Kind or other is like to prosper in most Places ; and Fodder well ordered in Stacks will hold out for many Years , perhaps for Sheep the older the better .
And hereabout they hold such friendly Correspondence , that in Autumn I see the Shepherds drive the Flocks out of Somersetshire into Dorsetshire , and those of Dorsetshire into Somersetshire , for the Benefit on both sides by change of Soil .
Note , That crude Antimony cures Sheep and other Cattle , and fattens them also .
I omit many Particulars commonly known and observed by careful Shepherds , as in Showers , and soon after a shower to drive the flocks gently , that they may beat off the Dew with their Feet , before they be suffered to feed on the wet Grass , especially in cold Mornings , when dewy Cobwebs lie upon the Pastures ; and to let the Sheep blood under the Eye , as soon as they can discern them Rank of Blood .
I must refer to Mr. John Smith 's Englands Improvement , l. 5 .
p. 170 , 171 .
hoping that he will bestow a few Sheets more to direct punctually the best Way of ordering Sheep , and the most effectual Remedies against the several Kinds of Rots , and their other Diseases , as a Matter of no small Concernment to England , and in which he seems to have much Experience .
6 .
To return for more Salt , and to know the Shifts that are made , and lately were made for it in England .
At Wirewater in Lancashire Salt is gathered out of Heaps of Sand along the Sea-side in many Places : Upon which Sand ( saith Speed ) the People pour Water until it gets a saltish Humour , which they afterwards boil with Turfs , till it become white Salt .
Cambden in Britann .
fol. p. 753 .
describes it thus , In ora hac maritima mult is in locis sabuli cumulos videas , quibus aquam subinde infundunt , donec salsuginem contraxerit , quam postea subditis globis in candidum salem excoquunt .
And Speed saith , There are certain Stones lying in the River Were at Butterbec near Durham , from whose Sides , at the ebb and low Water in Summer , issues a certain Salt reddish Water , which with the Sun waxes white , and growing into a thick Substance becomes a necessary Salt for the By-dwellers .
Cambden p. 744 .
describes it thus , Inde Vedra decurrit , crebro eminentibus saxis interpolatus , quibus si aqua infundatur , parumque misceatur , salsam imbuit qualitatem .
Sir , you took Notice of two or three saline Springs in this Neighbourhood of Somersetshire : One examined by Dr. Highmore , in your Num. 56 .
p. 1130 ; another Num. 57 .
p. 1162 .
And doubtless there are many more such in England , if well observed : And tho ' the Proportion of Salt be small , yet they may serve for some domestic Uses .
The Water in Summer-time , when the Brine is strongest , being cast in any Place where it may be soon dried by the Sun , and where we would have Pigeons resort , does please them well .
So will any refuse Brine being boiled up to a Consistence .
But I know not whether such Brine taken from powdered Flesh will be kind for Sheep .
Possibly such saline Springs may indicate fossil Salt for future Industry .
And N. 56 .
p. 1135 .
you recite from worthy Mr. Evelyn a good Hint to encourage some Attempts for the Multiplying of Salt , in Sylva secund .
Edit .
c. 3 .
p. 26 .
Sect. 17 .
Sir Hugh Plat hath said and collected enough of the Virtues and Uses of Salt ( and how it may be obtained ) for the Fertilizing of Land , in his Jewel-house , c. 104 .
7 .
Now to improve the Race of our Sheep for Hardiness , or for Largeness of the Size , and Abundance of Wool ; we hear , that many wealthy Sheep-masters on the Downs do offer very high Rates for the largest Sheep , Rams especially , that they can procure ; and sometimes they buy from foregin Parts very large and lusty Rams , and find the Benefit by the Largeness of the descending Race .
And since , in several Parts of England , they seriously set on for the finest Drapery , it is to be wished that our Merchants would bring us from those Parts of Spain , Italy , and Greece , ( which boast of the finest Wool ) both Rams and Ewes that bear the finest Wool , that we may try them at Lembstersore in Herefordshire , where they are skilled , and generally practised in ordering such delicate and tender Sheep , and to try them in other Parts , where they pretend to the finest Wool in England .
Our Merchants say much , and require good pay for the Spanish Wool ; some for the Wool of Segovia .
Of old the Sheep of Tarentum had in Italy the highest Esteem .
These Tarentin Sheep were brought into Italy from Greece , and were so tender , and did require such curious and costly Attendance in Varro 's Days , being all covered with Leather Pelts ( pellibus integuntur ) to guard them from Heat or Cold , and to preserve their Purple Fleeces from all Pollution ; Varro l. 2 .
c. 2 .
and after , in Columella 's Time , required such exact Skill to preserve them , Colum .
l. 7 .
c. 2 .
that I know not how to recommend them for our English Climate , and our ordinary Shepherds .
Pallad saith , l. cit. Graecas oves , sicut Asianas , vel Tarentinas , moris est potius stabulo nutrire quam campo .
I must refer to better Advice for such a Race as is likely to live amongst us , and then if Gentlemen wou 'd make the Trial to amend the Race of Sheep ( as they have often attempted to amend our Race of Horses by the best of Barbary , and as with more Hope the Gentry in Ireland may assay to mend their mettalsome Hobbies with Spanish Genets , or Bards from Tangier , ) under one , by the same or like diligence , and by the same adventure , they may chance to oblige their Country both ways , both with Sheep bearing finer Wool , and with better Horses than the Irish Hobbies ; I dare not say , than the right British .
For I was told by a great master of horses , who had many years experience of Stallion barbs , the best he could buy , that the bastard barbs , descending from the best English mares he could obtain , were constantly better shaped , and better for the saddle and other stronger service , than their Syres .
But I turned here aside to name Ireland , because the rot of sheep is not so ordinary in Ireland as in England , and they are nearer Spain and Tangier than we are : And they are highly to be commended for their late industry , both in the linen and Woollen manufactures ; which may nobly provoke our emulation .
And whilst England and Ireland strive to excel each other in good things , we draw closer to a perfect union , and to give strength and assistance to each other mutually .
Sir , you having been long accustomed to bear the burden of useful Inquiries , and to promote the common good , you 'll pardon this freedom in , &amp;c.

