Jo. Martyn M. D. to the President , concerning the same .
SIR , Chelsea , Feb. 14 , 1749-50 .
SOME time ago I troubled you with some Account of an Aurora Australis ~ , which I hope you received : I now take the Liberty to mention the Earthquake , which happened on Thursday last , of which you have without doubt had many and better Accounts from other Places .
It was felt here at 40 ' after Noon .
All the Houses were violently shaken , especially those which are nearest to the River .
I was sitting in my Study , which fronts the SW up one Pair of Stairs .
I imagined that something heavy had fallen down in the Room below me .
The Servants , who happened to be dispersed in several Rooms , each of them thought one of the others had thrown down some heavy Chest or Cabinet .
A Maid-Servant , who happened to be passing from one of the under Offices to another , felt the Ground shake under her .
As the Place on which her Feet were was full 6 Feet below the Iiii Surface , ~ See these Transactions , N. 494 , p 319 .
Read Feb. 15 Surface , I immediately concluded , that such a Motion must be occasioned only by an Earthquake .
However , as most of the Neighbours were confident that the Shock was occasioned by the blowing up of the Powder-Mills at Hounslow , I dispatched a Messenger thither on Horseback , who brought me Word , that the Shock was not felt either there or at Brentford ; and that he could not learn that it had been felt farther Westward than KensingtonTurnpike .
I have also since been informed , that it was felt at Fulham ; but a Friend , who lives a little beyond Richmond , has sent me Word , that they did not feel it there .
Of those who were in the Street , or upon the River , some felt it , and others not .
I am credibly informed , that Letters from Calais and Boulogne mention its having been felt on that Coast .
It seems therefore to have extended itself far to the East ; but to have terminated in the West , about two Miles beyond this Place .
I am , Sir , with the greatest Respect , Your most humble Servant , J. Martyn .

