Prof. 0 .
Lodge .
Radiation Frequency .
The Influence of a Magnetic Field on Radiation Frequency .
" Communication from Professor Oliver Lodge , F.R.S. Received and read February 11 , 1897 .
I ask permission to bring before the notice of the Fellows a notable discovery recently made at Leyden by Dr. P. Zeeman , who is now elected Professor of Physics in the University of Amsterdam .
To put myself in order , I will state that I have set up apparatus suitable-for showing the effect , and have verified its primary feature , viz. , that both lines in the ordinary spectrum of sodium are broadened when a magnetic field is concentrated upon the flame emitting the light .
Zeeman has observed it likewise with lithium , and with absorption as well as with emission spectra ; taking precautions against deception by spurious effects due to changes of density or of temperature .
It is thus probably not a chemical fact , dependent on the nature of a substance , but a physical fact , dependent on the nature of radiation and absorption , 7.e .
, a fact connected with the interchange of eneigy between ether and matter .
Faraday appears to have looked for some such phenomenon in the course of his latest magneto-optic researches in 1862 , but he had not a Rowland concave grating at his disposal , and the effect is small .
I saw it with a 1-inch flat reflection grating containing 14,600 lines , and with an oxy-coal gas flame playing on pipe clay supporting carbonate of soda between pointed poles .
I tried to see it by widening the slit till the D lines almost encroached on each other ; thinking thereby to see the residual dark space obliterated by the magnetic action .
A luminous haze seemed to spread over the dark chink when the magnet was excited , but the chink itself did not disappear ; and the effect is more conspicuous and easier to observe when the narrowest slit possible is used , and when a micrometer spider-line is set down the middle of one of the D lines , of the second order spectrum , well defined in a field of considerable magnifying power .
The broadening is then unmistakable , and is symmetrical on each side ; but I judge that the edges are not so bright as the central portion .
The line appears brightened as well as broadened , the previous borders of the line are brightened , and there are also gradated extensions .
If the focussing is sharp enough to show a narrow , dark reversal line down the middle of either sodium line , that dark line completely disappears when the magnet is excited .
With the help of Professor H. A. Lorentz , the discoverer has initiated a simple theory ' of the effect , by considering the effect of VOL. lx .
2 Q Dr. J. Larmor .
Influence of a magnetic force on the motions of oscillating and revolving electrified particles possessing inertia ( ions or electrons ) in a magnetic field ; and it is thus shown that the broadened edges of the line ought , on Lorentz 's view , to be emitting polarised light , viz. , plane polarised in directions normal to the lines of force , and circularly polarised in a direction along those lines .
This prediction has been experimentally verified by Zeeman , and has likewise been confirmed by myself .
The flame being looked at from a direction perpendicular to the magnetic field , the light which will be dispersed by the grating to form the extended borders of a line is plane polarised , with its electric oscillations normal to the field 's lines of force .
I hope to have the pleasure of communicating an English version of Professor Zeeman 's complete paper to the March number of the ' Philosophical Magazine .
' The Influence of a Magnetic Field on Radiation Frequency .
" Communication from Dr. J. Larmor , F.R.S. Received and read February 11 , 1897 .
In the course of the development of a dynamical hypothesis* I have been led to express the interaction between matter and ether as wholly arising from the permanent electrons associated with the matter ; and reference was made to von Helmholtz ( 1893 ) and Lorentz ( 1895 ) as having followed up similar views .
A footnote in Dr. Zeeman 's paper has drawn my attention to an earlier memoir of Lorentz ( 1892 ) , in which it was definitely laid down that the electric and optical influences of matter must be formulated by a modified Weberian theory , in which the moving electrons affect each other , not directly by action at a distance but mediately by transmission across the ether in accordance with the Earaday-Maxwell scheme of electric relations .
The development of a physical scheme in which such action can be pictured as possible and real , not merely taken as an unavoidable assumption which must be accepted in spite of the paralogisms which it apparently involves , t was a main topic in the papers above mentioned .
The experiments of Dr. Zeeman verify deductions drawn by Lorentz from this view .
It might , however , be argued that inasmuch as a magnetic field alters the index of refraction of* circularly polarised light , which depends on the free periods of the material molecules , it must therefore , quite independently of special theory , * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1894 , A , pp. 719\#151 ; 822 ; 1895 , A , pp. 695\#151 ; 743 .
f H. A. Lorentz , " La Thoovie Electromagnetique cle Maxwell , et ses Applications aux Corps Mouvants , " 'Archives Neerlandaises , ' 1892 .
Cf .
especially S 91 .

