468 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C. A. Raisin .
d'arbres innombrables , les cellules pyramidales , qui , grace a un culturo intelligente , peuvent multiplier leurs branches , enfoncer plus loin leurs racines , et produire des fleurs et des fruits chaque fois plus varies et exquis .
Du rest nous sommes tres loin de croire qae l'hypothese que nous venous d'esquisser puisse a elle seule expliquer les grandes differences quantitatives et qualitatives que present le travail cerebral chez les divers animaux et dans la meme espece animale .
La morphologie de la cellule pyramidale n'est qu'une des conditions anatomiques de la pensee .
Or cette morphologie speciale no suffira jamais a nous expliquer les enormes differences qui existent au point de vue fonc-tionnel entre la cellule pyramidale d'un lapin et celle d'un Lomrne , ainsi qu'entre la cellule pyramidale de l'ecorce cerebrale et le cor-puscule etoile de la moelle ou du grand sympathique .
Aussi a notre avis est-il tres probable qu'en outre de la complexity de leurs rapports les cellules pyramidales possedent encore un structure intraprotoplasmique tout speciale , et meme perfectionnee dans les intelligences d'elite , structure qui n'existerait pas dans les corpuscules de la moelle ou des ganglions .
" On Rocks and Minerals collected by Mr. W. M. Conway in the Karakoram Himalayas .
" By Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , and Miss C. A. Raisin , B.Sc. Received February 15 , \#151 ; Read April 19 , 1894 .
During his journey in the Karakoram Himalayas , Mr. W. M. Conway collected more than 300 specimens of rocks and minerals , which , however , were generally rather small .
These were sent to us for examination at University College , London .
Thin slices have been prepared of the specimens which promised to be the more interesting .
Of the rest , the mineral composition was verified in cases of doubt by examining pulverised fragments under the microscope .
Since the detailed results of our examination , which practically form an annotated catalogue of the specimens , will be printed as an appendix to Mr. Conway 's forthcoming volume , * we restrict ourselves in this pap'er to a summary of our work , and to a notice of a few specimens which appear to be of more than local interest .
( 1 .
) General Description .
Commencing with the crystalline rocks , and with the most basic of these , we find one specimen of a dark green serpentine , containing * Since this paper was read , the first or descriptive part of the work has been published ( ' Climbing and Exploration in the Karakoram-Himalayas ' ) , which gives the positions of the localities mentioned herein .
On Rocks and Minerals from Karakoram Himalayas .
469 small glittering crystals of bastite , brought from debris at foot of a slope at the village of Mapnun on the Burzil Pass .
The rock has been evidently affected by pressure , and is practically identical with a type of serpentine rather common in the Alps .
Many varieties of diorite have been collected .
Of these , some are almost hornblendites ( see below ) , others are normal diorites varying from coarse to fine grained , others , again , are really hornblende-schists .
In some of the last it is likely that the foliation ( as we believe to be generally the case with the hornblende-schists of the Lizard and of Sark)# is the result of fluxional movements anterior to consolidation , while in others this structure is more probably due to pressure , and to consequent mineral changes subsequent to the first solidification of the rock .
Granites are rather numerous .
Some are of a normal type , moderately coarse grained , the mica ( variable in quantity ) being generally biotite .
Certain of these are slightly gneissoid in structure .
More definitely foliated , almost certainly as a result of pressure , are some rather micaceous ( biotite ) granites .
Yet more distinctly gneissic rocks occur , with a mineral banding as well as a foliation , in which pressure modification is generally to be noted .
One group of these has a rather markedly ' different character ; they are fine grained gneisses , modified by pressure ( to which , however , the texture does not appear to be due ) , not rich in quartz , consisting mainly of felspar ( orthoclase or microcline and plagioclase ) and biotite , with a more or less definitely banded structure .
They present a considerable resemblance to certain rocks found in the district about Blair Athol ( Scotland ) , which Dr. H. Hicks , in consequence of their rather peculiar aspect , has named the " pepper and salt " gneisses .
We find also a coarse granite , rather porphyritic in structure , and rendered gneissoid by pressure , which contains large red impure garnets , up to about S in .
in diameter .
Similar garnets , but of smaller size , also occur in several varieties of granite and gneiss ; one of these might almost be called a kinzigite , others are granulites ( leptynites ) .
The compact acid igneous rocks are not numerous ; but a rather remarkable series from the neighbourhood of the Golden Throne calls for a little notice .
Some come from the moraine proceeding from the west foot of the mountain .
These are compact , but show a schistose structure with slightly micaceous or talcose aspect , indicative of crashing .
They are parti-coloured ; a grey , varying from slightly to markedly greenish , being streaked , spotted , and blotched with a dull Indian red , small white specks showing in some of the patches .
The texture of the lighter part under the microscope is * T. G- .
Bonney and General C. A. McMahon , ' Quart .
Jl .
G-eol .
Soc. , ' vol. 47 ( 1891 ) , p. 497 ; E. Hill and T. G. Bonney , ' Quart .
Jl .
Geol .
Soc. , ' vol. 48 ( 1892 ) * p. 145 .
470 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss 0 .
A. Haisin .
speckled , or somewhat fibrous , with indications of minute aggregate polarisation , this being most conspicuous when it makes an angle of 45 ' with the vibration planes of the crossed nicols .
The fibrous mineral very closely resembles the so-called sericite of some porphv-roids .
Here and there are grains of quartz , decomposed and sometimes broken felspar crystals , and some dark reddish , flaky patches .
The dark microscopic spots contain corroded grains of quartz , decomposed or partly corroded felspar crystals , and the same dark red flaky minerals in a crypto- to micro-crystalline matrix .
In one rounded lump , at first sight very like a pebble , some grains of crystalline calcite are enclosed .
The smaller patches , though varying in detail , present a general resemblance , and there can be little doubt that they are fragments of a devitrified acid igneous rock .
In the absence of definite characters , it is difficult to speak positively as to the nature of the matrix , but most probably it was once a volcanic glass , which has since undergone micro-mineralogical change , mainly in consequence of pressure.* Though the red patches occasionally look very like pebbles , it is more probable that they are due to a flow brecciation .
If we are right in our inferences , these rocks of the Golden Throne indicate an outpouring of acid lavas prior to the mountain making .
Other specimens from the same district are generally similar to the above-described , but present varietal differences , and a small specimen of an Indian red colour from debris on the Baltoro glacier is very probably a tuff , though the amount of crushing makes it difficult to be sure .
The crystalline schists include epidote- , Piedmontite- , and various mica-schists .
The first of these very probably occurs as a band in a hornblende-schist , and a rock very similar to it may be found at more than one locality on the Lizard peninsula , in Cornwall .
The second schist will be described more fully below .
The third group contains several varieties , one of which will receive a separate notice .
Of the rest , it may suffice to say that with one exception they are ordinary types ; this , however , though a well known one , has sufficient interest to warrant a slightly fuller description .
The rock , which comes from the Hunza Valley , between Gulmet and Tashot , f is a dark lead-coloured schist containing garnets .
The latter , on microscopic examination , are found to be a pale reddish colour , sometimes fairly regular in outer form , cracked , granular in structure , and often containing a fair amount of dusky enclosures .
These have a somewhat dendritic grouping ; the angles which the tufts make one with another are such as to suggest relations with the process * As has happened in many porphyroids ( T. Gf .
Bonney , ' Proc. Gfeol .
Assoc./ vol. 9 , 1885 , pp. 250\#151 ; 258 ) .
f Many fragments of this rock were lying along the bottom and slopes of the valley .
Multitudes of garnets were found a little higher up the valley .
W. M. 0 .
On Rocks and Minerals from the Karakoram .
471 of crystal building .
Also tubes or fibrous cracks are present , arranged generally at right angles to the faces of the garnet .
Rather irregular crystalline grains of yellowish staurolite with many enclosures occur ; also irregular grains of magnetite , and numerous little patchy flakes of brown mica .
These are all set in a crystalline matrix , consisting of white mica and ( apparently ) granular quartz , with usually a considerable quantity of opacite ( probably graphite ) , a few small tourmalines ( strongly dichroic , changing from a light to a brownish or dull greenish tint ) , and some small rutiles .
A similar schist comes from near Askole , and one without garnets , but in other respects like these , from the south flank of Crystal Peak .
The chief interest of these garnet-bearing mica schists is their very close resemblance to schists in the Lepontine Alps , * as described by one of us , where the rock is a local variety of a dark micaceous schist , and it occurs , to his knowledge , at intervals for a distance of over 30 miles in a straight line along the chain .
With the mica schists we may mention , under the general name of sericite schists , several very much crushed rocks from Kamar nala , Mir , and the Dar Talley , Bagrot , and then pass on to a group of more or less calcareous schists , such as are developed in the Alps , and are there associated with quartz schists , green schists , and the aforesaid black garnet schists .
In that chain they not unfrequently pass into crystalline limestones or dolomites , and rocks of this character also occur in Mr. Conway 's collection .
One or two contain malacolite , and some show distinct signs of having been affected by pressure.f Passing on to the ordinary sedimentary rocks , we find a number of limestones , more or less impure , some containing fragments of other rocks , writh schistose calcareous grits , besides argillites and slates , one or two of the latter resembling the slates of Llanberis ( North Wales ) .
A few of the specimens contain much crystalline material , so that it is difficult to decide whether they are very crushed dark schists , or slightly altered slates largely composed of detrital crystalline material .
Rocks may be found in the Alps which present similar difhcul ties .
Sandstones , grits , and conglomerates occur ; some of the gritty rocks show a cleavage , and certain near the Golden Throne probably contain volcanic materials .
A conglomerate from Mapnun , in the Burzil Talley , contains a fragment of a quartz diorite , which obviously had been already modified by pressure when it was made into a pebble , indicating that in this mountain region , as in the Alps , earth move* T. G. Bonney , ' Quart .
Jl .
Geol .
Soc. , ' vol. 49 ( 1893 ) , p. 105 , \amp ; c. We are informed by Mr. G. Barrow , F.G.S. , that a similar schist occurs in the Central Highlands of Scotland.\#151 ; T. Gr .
B. f T. G. Bonney , ' Geol .
Mag. , ' 1889 , p. 483 , and 1890 , p. 536 .
472 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C. A. Raisin .
ments must have occurred long anterior to those which have produced the existing chain .
Lastly , two partially altered sedimentary rocks are of some interest .
The first , from a fallen fragment halfway between Samaiyar village and Strawberry Camp , on the left bank of the valley , is a blackish , compact , slightly-cleaved rock , not distinctly crystalline , in which are scattered several crystalline grains , the largest slightly more than one-eighth of an inch in diameter .
This has one fairly well-marked cleavage , with a sub-vitreous , slightly oily lustre , and a second more imperfect , meeting it at an obtuse angle .
The hardness seems to be slightly less than 5 .
Under the microscope the ground-mass is seen to consist of minute films of a sericitic mica mixed with a minute colourless mineral and granules of opacite and ferrite .
In this are scattered larger irregular grains and plates of a black mineral , with raggedly outlined flakes of biotite , containing much of the ground-mass , some prisms ( probably rutile ) , and two or three specimens of a larger mineral ( probably the same species as that already mentioned ) .
The best defined has two cleavages , one more strongly developed than the other , meeting at an angle of about 76 ' , and extinction takes place at an angle of 30 ' , or a little less , with the former .
The crystals exhibit a rather irregularly outlined prismatic form , the sides being roughly parallel with these cleavages , and are crowded with minute materials , apparently identical with the ground-mass .
This presents a slight resemblance to that of the ottrelite rock of the Forges de la Commune , Ardennes , and of one or two schistose rocks from the Alps , which do ' not belong to the most ancient group .
Both.the biotite and the above-named mineral appear to have been formed situ at a time when molecular movements were not easy .
We are unable to identify the latter with any mineral known to us , but it somewhat recalls to mind the " knoten and prismen " from certain Jurassic rocks in the Lepontine Alps , * and even the couseranite from Yicdessos ( Pyrenees ) .
It does not seem to be tetragonal .
We venture to suggest that it is a hydrous alumina-lime-silicate allied to the scapolite group .
The matrix around the crystals is slightly coarser than elsewhere .
Possibly the peculiarities in this rock may be the result of contact metamorphism .
The other rock from near Trough Camp , on the right side of the never , obviously contains rather angular fragments of white marble imbedded in a hard matrix , grey , speckied with dark green , in colour .
The larger marble fragments are stained externally with limonite ; many of the smaller are altogether brown .
Microscopic examination shows these to consist alike of crystalline calcite , fairly coarse in the whiter parts , fine-grained in the iron-stained .
Both structures are sometimes present in the same fragment , and their relations suggest that the fine-grained one comes from a * T. ft. Bonney , ' Quart .
Jl .
Geol , Soc. , ' 1390 , vol. 46 , pp. 213\#151 ; 221 , 232\#151 ; 236 .
On Bocks and Minerals from the Karakoram Himalayas .
473 crushing of the coarser .
The matrix has a sub-crystalline aspect , and is variable in character .
In one part sub-angular grains appear to be , as it were , set in a matrix composed of small scales of mica ( mostly white , but some green ) , and of a chalcedonic material .
This condition closely resembles that described in some Huronian conglomerates , and probably results from the alteration of a felspathic grit .
In other parts a large grain of quartz is occasionally seen , commonly fairly well rounded , and the ground-mass consists of a mixture , resembling that already described , of minute mica with felspathic-loolcing granules , enclosing larger crystals of green and brown mica and crystals of a second mineral .
These are fairly developed , rather elongated prisms ( varying from about 1 : 4 to 1 : 8 ) up to 0'04 in .
in length , rather full of microlithic enclosures , very pale yellowish-green with transmitted light , with dichroism almost imperceptible , and moderately bright-coloured with crossed nicols .
The mineral shows a rather irregular transverse cleavage with occasional hints of one parallel to the sides of the prism , and extinguishes straight or nearly so with the latter .
Though it has a general resemblance to epidote , the cleavage parallel with the above-named sides is not so marked as usual .
It is , however , more like this mineral than andalusite , with specimens of which we have compared it .
The mica , which occurs in flakes , is dichroic , changing generally from a light straw colour to a brownish-green .
It has formed after the epidote , and as it frequently borders the fragments of marble it may possibly be a lime-mica .
It produces the impression that it is slowly eating up the ground-mass .
Of other minerals present in parts of the slice , rutile , sometimes in geniculate twins , is rather abundant , and is included in both the epidote and the mica .
From its mode of occurrence a derivative origin seems probable .
A few granules of iron oxide , apparently limonite , occur , also a rounded grain of zircon , and one small crystal of brownish tourmaline , secondary in origin .
( 2 .
) Remarks on Certain Specimens of Interest .
We proceed next to describe more particularly those rocks already mentioned which are more specially interesting .
First of these are some rocks consisting almost wholly of hornblende .
Hornblendites.\#151 ; One of them from a fallen block on the west side of the Astor Valley above Dashkin is a dark green , rather friable rock , which consists chiefly of hornblende , mostly in porphyritic crystals about f inch long .
More than one variety of this mineral appears on microscopic examination : one is blue-green ( for rays along the c axis ) , and a yellower green ( for direction at right angles ) ; the other , in larger crystals , is strongly dichroic ( a straw colour , b dark bi*onze-green , c 474 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C , A. Kaisin .
similar but slightly darker ) .
In the latter , enclosures , probably haematite , are rather frequent , which apparently lie in the pinacoidal planes.* " Vie find also some plagioclase felspar , a little pseudobrookite , rutile , and pyrite .
The rock has suffered from pressure , which has caused locally the formation of a chlorite , and possibly of some secondary felspar .
Another specimen from the same locality seems to be a schistose form of a similar rock .
It consists mainly of a blackish , glittering , fibrous hornblende , and thus is very dark green in colour .
Its surfaces are somewhat slickensided and are covered with films of green copper ore .
A few elongated grains of clear felspar or quartz appear on microscopic examination , but the slice consists almost entirely of hornblende in rather elongated prisms , with a very definite orientation .
This is markedly dichroic , changing through bluish-green ( c axis ) to grass-green ( fi axis ) , or almost colourless ( a axis ) ; it contains occasionally small crystals of rutile , rather impure , arranged along the cleavage planes .
A system of parallel planes extends continuously across the crystals of the slice whatever their orientation , roughly making angles of 70 ' and 110 ' with the foliation .
Even in a grain of ( ?
) quartz lines of enclosures seem to continue the direction of these planes .
The rock is now a hornblende schist , but it was probably produced by pressure from one closely allied to a pyroxenite .
Piedmontite Schist.\#151 ; We come next to specimens of Piedmontite schist , all from near the Gargo glacier .
One from the left bank or moraine shows in a rich purple compact matrix a number of dull white spots , rather fragmental in aspect .
These exhibit a slight orientation , and traces of divisional surfaces are pei-ceptible , cutting this at an angle of rather more than 35 ' .
Quartz , white mica , and piedmontite , the first being the most , the second the least , abundant , and some felspar , are the principal minerals shown in the slice .
The quartz contains enclosures , generally minute but variable in size , occasionally with bubbles .
The piedmontite occurs in more or less clustered grains or irregular short prisms .
With ordinary transmitted light the mineral exhibits a great variety of tints , from rather dull pale orange or straw colour to a rich purplish-pink or strong orange-red , inclining sometimes to a burnt sienna , sometimes to a more purple hue .
On testing for dichroism , we find in sections parallel to the orthodiagonal the colour changes from pale pink ( parallel to b axis ) to rich pink ( c axis , as stated by Levy ) , and in sections more or less transverse from pale yellow to burnt sienna , and in some sections from deep amber ( a axis)f to a rich pink or slightly orange-purple .
* These might be similar to the enclosures in schillerised pyroxenes described by Professor Judd , which , however , consist of mixtures of limonite and other oxides .
See 'Quart .
Jl .
Geol .
Soc. , ' 1885 , vol. 41 , pp. 379 , 381 , 384 , \amp ; e. t ' Les Mineraux des Roches , ' p. 184 .
On Rocks and Minerals from the Karakoram Himalayas .
475 The grains are apt to be irregular in external form , and seldom exhibit a perfect crystal outline ; besides this they have generally a rather dusty look , as if they contained numerous small enclosures .
We find also one or two grains of a mineral rather irregular in outline , -which has twro cleavages crossing at a large angle , and exhibits not very high polarisation tints .
It is probably monoclinic or triclinic , and a secondary product .
In parts of the slide crystalline granules of iron oxide ( ?
hosmatite ) are fairly abundant , and exhibit a somewhat streaky arrangement .
Under the microscope the white spots of the rock consist almost wholly of crystalline quartz , and have a somewhat brecciated aspect .
This suggests that the specimen may be from a vein , but the rest of the rock in structure more resembles a schist .
There seem to be some slight indications of mechanical disturbance , but if this has occurred it has been followed by very considerable recrystallisation .
The next specimen ( fig. 1 ) comes from a small boulder on the south bank of the stream flowing from the east through the " maidan " of Gargo .
This appears to be a rather compact and hard schist , which FlO .
1.\#151 ; Piedmontite Schist , near Gargo Glacier .
evidently contains a fair amount of white mica in very small scales , and is rather rich in piedmontite .
At the first glance the slice exhibits a large number of crystals of piedmontite , similar to those already described , together with small garnets and two micas , one 476 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C. A. Raisin .
colourless , the other brown , in little films , all scattered in a fairly glass-clear ground-mass ; one or two grains of iron oxide and possibly of rutile occur .
The crystals generally have a foliated arrangement , and are somewhat irregularly grouped , comparatively free lacunae occurring here and there .
The garnets are clear , and contain a few enclosures ( P cavities ) ; they usually occur in well-formed dodecahedra , and are about 0-002 inch in diameter .
This is seldom and very slightly exceeded , but much smaller specimens are not rare .
The white mica is less abundant where the garnets are common , and has a tendency to occur in larger crystals and group itself round the lacunae .
With crossed nicols the greater part of the ground-mass exhibits a rather minute mosaic structure , and is probably , at least to a considerable extent , secondary felspar .
The larger interspaces prove to be in some cases aggregated granules of quartz , in others an almost water-clear felspar , cleavage planes and occasional twinning being perceptible The outline of the felspar is very irregular , and it is associated sometimes with granules like those above mentioned , as though it had been partly replaced by them .
There can be no doubt that the pied-montite , the garnet , and possibly some of the white mica are of secondary origin .
It is even doubtful whether all the larger grains of felspar and quartz are intact , for some contain more microliths than might have been anticipated .
Calcite occurs locally in patches ; in one place also a slightly granular mineral , giving bright tints with crossed nicols .
The rock is now a piedmontite schist , but it is difficult to suggest what its original condition may have been , not improbably a fairly coarse-grained gneissoid or granitoid rock .
Another specimen from the left half of the Gargo glacier bears some resemblance to the preceding , but is less micaceous and paler in colour ; also it contains a vein of quartz with some minute calcite .
Even on microscopic examination the distinctions for the most part are only varietal , but broken felspars of considerable size are rather more conspicuous in the specimen , and the rock generally affords very marked indications of fracture and reconstitution .
There is another specimen from the left side or moraine of the Gargo glacier ( below the icefall ) , which has a general resemblance to the last but one , but has a slightly more slabby character .
These rocks have been compared with a specimen of the piedmontite schist of Japan , presented to one of us by the kindness of Professor Koto .
This contains the characteristic mineral about as abundantly arid as well developed as the Gargo ' specimens , but has more iron-glance ( P ) , and more white mica , which sometimes seems to be slightly tinted by the manganese .
The rock also is more definitely foliated .
Schist with Conspicuous Secondary From Dasskaram Needle comes a pale grey , closely laminated silvery schist , markedly calOn Rocks and Minerals from the Karakoram Himalayas .
careous ( effervescing with HC1 ) , including minute dark grains .
It contains numerous crystals of dark mica , as much as a quarter of an inch across , their outline being clearly defined and sometimes hexagonal .
These commonly traverse the foliation planes at a high angle , and are unusually thick .
Thus the edges , which project from a weathered silvery surface , have the form of oblong prisms , and somewhat resemble , as the colour varies from a very dark green to almost black , crystals of hornblende .
Under the microscope the ground mass exhibits a foliated and slightly banded structure , and apparentlv consists in part of small grains ; some seemingly calcite , while others \#151 ; rather irregularly formed , partly free from enclosures , of a water-clear mineral , giving somewhat low polarisation tints and with a kind of zoned structure\#151 ; are probably secondary felspars , which may retain traces of an original nucleus .
The ground-mass contains also mica with , peidiaps , a little chlorite .
The larger crystals of mica exhibit a curious and interesting structure .
They are generally a light brown in colour , but they assume a greener tint near to the outside .
The former part is fairly dichroic , varying from a light , slightly greenish-brown to a fairly rich warm brown ; but the greener parts are paler and not dichroic .
The crystals are usually somewhat irregular in outline , but the cleavage is fairly good .
In parts of the slide the mica appears in numerous small patches , mixed up with the ground-mass .
These in some places seem to coalesce by 478 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C. A. Raisin .
a gradual replacement of portions of the ground-mass , so as to form ultimately a kind of setting for the grains which remain .
In other parts , however , though a considerable portion of the ground-mass persists , the characteristic cleavage of the mica can be readily detected , * its pleochroism being wanting , while a straight extinction is quite discernible .
In these cases we have , as it were , the ghost of the mica , but commonly , as the mineral becomes more and more characteristic and pleochroic , the constituents of the ground-mass correspondingly disappear , until at last only few of them remain ( fig. 2 ) .
In these , however , the original orientation is still preserved .
Towards the edge of some of the grains the white mica , chlorite , \amp ; c. , of the ground-mass seem , as it were , to pierce the brown mica .
It is quite clear that this mineral has been formed after the production of the cleavage-foliation in the rock.f The manner of its occurrence suggests very strongly that its composition differs but slightly ( except for the absence of C02 ) from that of an average sample of the ground-mass .
We are indebted to Mr. P. Williams for the following analysis of this mica , made in Professor Ramsay 's laboratory at University College .
As only a very small amount of the mineral could be spared for the purpose , he was placed under considerable difficulties , and found it necessaiy to compute the alkalies as potash .
It must be also remembered that the crystals are rarely quite free from particles of ground-mass:\#151 ; Si02 ... 30-3 A1203 ... 24-7 Fe203 . .
* ... . .
77 CaO ... 7-3 MgO 8-6 K20 ... 14-0 H20 ... 9-6 102-2 The analysis corresponds generally with that of a hydrous mica , but has more potash ( or alkalies ) than is usual .
It differs from biotite , which the mineral most resembles , in the higher percentage of alumina ( in which it comes nearer to muscovite ) , and in the large amount of lime .
So far as the mineral can be classified it appears to be a hydrous biotite , with a considerable part of the magnesia re* The cleavage locally is so strongly marked that at first sight one almost anticipates a twinning .
The cleavage seems to be present , if one might say it , almost in advance of the mica .
t See T. a. Bonney , ' Quart .
Jl .
Geol .
Soc. , ' 1893 , vol. 49 , pp. 104\#151 ; 113 , fig. 1 , p. 107 .
On Rocks and Minerals from the Karakoram Himalayas .
479 placed by lime .
It is roughly intermediate between a lime-margarite and a meroxene described by Dr. Grubenmann.* ( 3 .
) Mineral or Vein Specimens .
A considerable number of the specimens brought by Mr. Conway are vein-stones , or representative of minerals rather than of rocks .
Quartz , of course , is common ; calcite , dolomite , and chalybite not unfrequent .
Besides these are found the following:\#151 ; Anhydrite , actinolite , idocrase , noble serpentine , copiapite ( probably from decomposition of pyrite ) , and almandine .
There are numerous examples of common garnet , many of epidote and of tourmaline ; also of pyrite , with chalcopyrite and other copper ores , usually in small amount .
We have looked carefully for gold in the pyritiferous quartzose veins and other specimens , but have not detected any traces .
One specimen alone seems to call for special notice\#151 ; a pseudojade\#151 ; and this perhaps is , more strictly speaking , a rock rather than a mineral , but we place it here since it was a fragment on a moraine ( left half of the Baltoro Glacier ) , and nothing is known as to its origin .
Its form is angular , being partly limited by joints ; it is of a variably greenish colour , - irregularly mottled by a pale yellowish tint .
The hardness is about 6'5 , the sp. gr. 3*26 , and the general appearance suggests a jade , but it differs in microscopic character from the few specimens of that i*ock which we have examined.f A slice exhibits , in ordinary transmitted light , a ground mass of a very pale yellowish colour , containing irregular , dusty looking patches and lines , variable in their distribution .
The parts freer from these enclosures are almost inert on polarised light , but contain at places a fibrous flaky mineral , extinguishing straight , and very faintly polarising* with dull , olive-brown colours .
This we find to correspond generally with the greener parts of the specimen .
The more dusty intervals ( those corresponding with the paler parts ) , exhibit , with crossed nicols , distinctly marked aggregates of very minute granules , and also a fibrous prismatic mineral , rather more brightly polarising , extinguishing at a fairly high angle , and having a somewhat matted arrangement : not improbably a pyroxene .
There are some rather clustered granules and grains of a translucent brown mineral , seemingly isotropic , possibly a variety of garnet .
We have to thank Mr. P. Williams , of University College , for the following analysis , made in Professor Ramsay 's laboratory .
* Quoted in ' Quart .
Jl .
G-eol .
Soc.,7 vol. 46 ( 1890 ) , p. 227 .
t General C. A. McMahon has been good enough to examine the slide and to give us the benefit of his experience of Indian rocks , determining at the same time the specific gravity of the specimen and making a qualitative analysis .
480 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C. A. Raisin .
Si02 38-22 A1203 13-83 Fe203 7-81 CaO 25*55 MgO 3-73 k20 7-07 Ha20 2*46 Loss at red heat 1*89 100*56 Microscopic examination , no less than chemical analysis , shows that this specimen cannot be referred to nephrite , and consists almost certainly of more than one mineral .
But it is very difficult to ascertain what these may be .
The microscope does not give much help , for it indicates an aggregate of ill-defined constituents , which sometimes recall the structures seeu in examining the material named saussurite .
The chemical analysis is remarkable for its richness in lime and alkalies ( especially potash ) and comparatively " low percentages of silica and alumina .
The general character of the rock suggests the possibility of jadeite being an important , if not the main constituent .
But , according to Krenner , * the normal analysis of this mineral is Si02 = 50*23 , A1203 = 25*37 , Na20 = 15'40 , and , though the actual analyses of specimens ( doubtless being mixtures ) have generally rather more silica , and less alumina and soda , with a little lime and protoxide of iron , still they do not correspond with the present one .
Apart from the difficulty of the presence of so much potash , we should find , if we supposed the alkalies to be contained in jadeite , hardly- any- silica or alumina left to go with the lime and other protoxide constituents .
Saussurite would account for some of the alkalies and of the lime , but it has nearly the same silica percentage as jadeite , and a rather higher one of alumina .
Zoisite ( proper ) epidote , the scapo-lite group , and elseolite present , in each case , important differences .
Certain of the constituents agree fairly well with one of the lime garnets.f The rock in which this occurs is said to be homogeneous , tough , with a rather waxy lustre , and a yellowish-white colour\#151 ; hardness = 7 , and sp. gr. = 3*33 \#151 ; 3'64 .
It gave , on analysis , Si02 = 44-85 ; A1203 = 10-76 ; Fe203 = 3-20 ; CaO = 34-38 ; MgO = 5"24 ; loss by ignition , 1*10 .
Total , 99*53 ; and of this Dr. Hunt takes , for the garnet , Si02 = 22"69 ; A1203 = 10*76 ; Fe2O3 = 3*20 ; CaO = 21*07 .
Total , 57*72 .
Such a mineral as this , if present in considerable quantity , would leave in the Karakoram rock a fair amount of silica for the alkalies and remaining protoxide bases .
A * ' Neues Jahrb .
f. Min .
, ' 1883 , ii , p. 173 .
f T. S. Hunt , 'Amer .
Jour .
Sci. , ' vol. 27 ( 1859 ) , p. 342 .
On Rocks and Minerals from Karakoram Himalayas .
481 mineral resembling a pyroxene seems to be present .
On the whole , after consulting many analyses of rocks and minerals , we venture to suggest that this rock may be composed of a lime garnet , * a potash jadeite , a mineral of the scapolite group , and a little pyroxene ( or , possibly , even wollastonite or pectolite ) .
It is more probably a vein product , for the low percentage of alumina seems to exclude the possibility of a felspathie euphotide .
( 4 .
) Geographical Distribution of the Rocks .
Mr. Conway 's collection commences with some specimens from the Jhelam Valley below Barramula .
These are a limestone and slates , not unlike some which occur in the Secondary series of the Alps .
The next specimens are from Grurai , in the side valley north of the Tragbal Pass .
These ( fallen blocks ) are granite and diorite .
Advancing thence up the valley of the Kishanganga and the Burzil Valley , fphyllites , t a fconglomerate and then a fgranite were collected , and fallen blocks , near Mapnun , furnished a slate and a serpentine .
Descending from the Burzil pass towards the Astor Valley , fhornblende diorite and tchlorite schist were found ; in fallen blocks diorites and a micaceous gneiss ; and one water-rolled specimen of argillite , Near Astor , two varieties of gneiss were obtained from boulders .
Below Astor , a fdiorite on the west of the river , and apparently also on the east , and fallen blocks of horn-blendite on the west , a fgarnetiferous gneiss ( near Parri ) , common as big boulders down the valley ; and then fgranulite and ffine-grained gneiss ( these two abundant by the roadside ) .
The strikes and dips recorded by Mr. Conway in some cases may be planes of jointing rather than of bedding , and in crystalline masses they are most probably to be reckoned as results of pressure .
Down to this part of the Astor Valley , the strikes vary from 15 ' W. of N. to 10 ' E. of N. , the dips varying from 30 ' eastward to vertical .
From the lower part of the valley , and from below Hatu Pir come fmicaceous gneisses , and fdiorite at Ramghat .
In the valley the strikes vary from NMST .
E. to nearly N.E. , the dips being on the south-eastern side from 30 ' to 45 ' , while below Hatu Pir the strike varies between 10 ' N. or S. of E. , the dips being 33 ' on the southern side .
The first specimens brought by Mr. Conway from the valley of the Indus come from the neighbourhood of Bunji .
They are f granite , hornblendite , decomposed diabase , and micaceous gneiss .
The next specimens are representatives of the Bagrot Valley ; its stream entei'S * The constituents of the greater part of the rock are so feebly double-refracting that a fair quantity of an isotropic mineral , if disseminated in granules , might easily elude discovery .
f Specimens marked thus f were obtained in situ .
482 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C. A. Raisin .
Gilgit ( a tributary of the Indus ) , carring the drainage of a line of lofty peaks and their southern spurs , which curve round from Raki-pushi on the west to Emerald Peak on the east .
From below Sinakar , in the lower part of the Bagrot Valley , comes a fhornblende schist ( the general strike being nearly E.N.E. , dip 55 ' northerly ) and a f diorite .
Hence to a fork in the valley near the foot of the Bagrot glacier , the specimens represent apparently fcrushed gneiss , and diorites of more than one kind .
One of these is said to extend far along the valley ; others are common in the debris .
Some strikes are recorded to easterly or east-north-easterly points , but the dips vary .
The Bagrot glacier issues from a loop of peaks , and Mr. Conway remarks that the mountains on the western side of the glacier as far as Rakipushi consist of hornblende rocks , like those of the Bagrot Valley .
From the ridge he collected a fcrushed gneiss , and from the Kamar nala beyond a crushed fquartzose mica schist .
On the eastern side of the glacier were collected a calcareous fsillimanite schist and a f hornblende schist , the latter being pretty certainly a crushed doleritic rock , and not .
unlike some of the " gruner scbiefer " of the Alps .
From the glacier come a diorite , common in the left moraine , and a crushed mica schist .
Passing up the eastern fork , Mr. Conway collected a fhornblende schist ( or pressure-modified diorite ) , a fmica diorite , and some fsericite schists , before reaching the foot of the Burchi glacier which , descending from the north , joins the yet larger Gargo glacier .
The specimens from near the former represent a crushed fcalc-mica schist ( in situ on the spur between the two glaciers ) and ( from the left moraine ) a diorite , an impure limestone , and a phyllite , so that there must be here an enfold of comparatively unaltered rock .
From the other glacier a crushed f actinolitic schist occurs on the left bank of the valley beyond Gargo ; yet further up on this side comes a fgneiss ( crushed ) .
The glacier was now crossed again to the slopes beneath Emerald Peak , on the ascent of which fsericite schist and fchlorite schist were obtained .
The right moraine of the Gargo glacier furnishes sericite schists , the left moraine or left side , piedmonite schists , chlorite schist , diorite , hornblende schist or schistose diorite , calc-mica schist , and phyllite ; from the more disturbed material is another diorite .
Piedmontite schist also comes from a boulder farther down the valley on the left side .
The exact locality where this interesting rock occurs in situ is not determined , but it is clearly somewhere in the buttresses of the Gargo Peaks .
These are part of a huge spur which extends from the Emerald Peak to Dubanni .
The strikes along the Gargo Valley from the fork are generally between 5 ' S. of E. to 7 ' S. of E.S.E. , the dips on the south side of the valley and on a peak east of Gargo , are northward ( from 40 ' to 80 ' ) or vertical ; on the north side of the valley they are southward 60 ' .
On the hill above the icefall , howOn Rocks and Minerals from the Karakoram Himalayas .
483 ever ( left side ) , and on Emerald Peak , the strike is If .
of E.H.E. , the dip southerly 30 ' to 75 ' .
The next set are from the valley leading to the Gil git river from Chalt .
The geology of this region was investigated by Surgeon Captain Giles .
Here Mr. Conway took hut few specimens ( fdiorite and fhornblendite ) , and remarks that the rocks are similar to those of the Bagrot Valley .
Approaching and passing Chalt , fcrystalline limestone in situ and a fchloritic rock occur ; the strike of these varies from 8 ' E. of S.E. to 13 ' S. of E. , the dips being northerly from 50 ' to 85 ' .
It is noted that much nearer Gilgit the strike of the rocks was E. , with a varying dip , and that on going northward it bends round to be a little more nearly in the direction of the valley .
The next set of specimens represent the rocks between Gulmet and Shaiyar ; they are fschisf086 calcareous grit , ffine-grained gneiss ( both sides of the river ) , a fgranulite , a fcrystalline limestone , a fmicaceous gneiss ( at Shaiyar ) , and as loose specimens , garnets , common near the crystalline limestone , a felstone ( Gulmet ) , and black garnet-schist ( abundant ) .
It is highly probable that we have in this region , as in parts of the Lepontine Alps , a series of gneissic rocks overlain by a group of crystalline schists , probably metamorphosed sediments , over which comes a newer series of comparatively unaltered strata .
The strikes at this part are stated to be " parallel with the valley near Gulmet , the dip being 30 ' in a southerly direction " ; above this they vary apparently from E.N.E. to E.S.E. , the dips being generally on the southern side , from 20 ' to vertical .
In the Samaiyar Valley , below the glacier , are a time-grained gneiss , fgranite ( left side , west of camp ) , and , from fallen fragments on the same side , a schistose ( ?
) dipyr rock , crystalline limestone , a mica schist ( with some secondary mica ) , and a schistose grit ( brought down abundantly by avalanches ) .
The character of these rocks suggests the possibility that the granite is intrusive in the sedi-mentaries .
The strikes in this part of the valley vary from 5 ' N. of N.E. to 7 ' S. of S.E. , the dips being very high , generally from 85 ' to vertical .
Along the Samaiyar glacier , on the left bank , is a fsome-what micaceous gneiss .
On the right , near Trough Camp , is a fmica-eeous conglomerate , which recalls some rocks of Huronian age in Canada .
On the same side , near the east end of " Trough Saddle , " is a ^fine-grained gneiss ( common down the left moraine of the glacier ) .
The strikes below Trough Camp are between E.S.E. and 10 ' S. of S.E. , dip southerly 55 ' to 80 ' , but at the east end of " Trough Saddle " the strike is nearly N.N.E. , the dip vertical .
After returning to the Nagyr Valley and ascending to ITopar , thei'e come , beyond it , a ffine-grained gneiss , a fmica-diorite .
and as loose specimens along the left side of the Nagyr Valley , and of the Bualtar glacier ( apparently from the Crown of Dirran ) , diorites ; from the medial VOL. lv .
- L 484 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C. A. Raisin .
moraine of the glacier a granite , and from the right one a " number of rocks similar to those of the Bagrot Valley .
" Thus it would seem as if dioritic or dolerifcic rock or some modified form of either , extends over a large area along and east of the Nomal Valley north of the Gilgit River .
The strike below Nagyr is 10 ' E. of S.E. , dip northerly 75 ' , but south of Hopar the strikes vary from 5 ' S. of S.E. , dip southerly 30 ' ( recorded at more than one place ) , to 7 ' S. of E.S.E. , dip southerly 50 ' .
Along the Shallihuru glacier , at and above Mir Camp , come a ffine-grained gneiss , a fcrushed mica schist , a fcalcareous mica schist , a f limestone breccia ( left bank ) , and from the Dasskaram Needle a ffine-grained gneiss , and a fmica schist with secondary mica ( two varieties ) .
A fine-grained gneiss is recorded as common in the Mir Moraine , and said by Mr , Conway to correspond with that on the " Trough Saddle .
" The strikes along the valley and on Dasskaram Needle vary from 5 ' S. of S.S.E. to 15 ' E. of S.E. , the dips being south-westerly from 75 ' to 85 ' .
From the Samaiyar Bar glacier come a crushed mica schist ( left side ) , and a crushed calc schist ( right moraine ) .
The Rash ridge on the right bank of the Barpu glacier was climbed in more than one place .
The eastern part consists of a fgarnetiferous gneiss , fcrystalline limestone , and a fmica diorite forming all the upper part of the ridge ; the more western part of fgarnetiferous gneiss and ( P ) fkinzigite , f micaceous gneiss , fbanded gneiss , and a fdiorite ( " forming a thin vein at the top of the ridge " ) .
The ridge must thus consist very largely of gneissic rocks , which , however , are pressure-modified igneous rocks .
The strike is recorded as from 10 ' to 25 ' S. of S.E. , the dips varying , those above Barpu Camp being southerly 30 ' to 60 ' .
In ascending by the long Hispar glacier to the pass of the same name the following rocks were collected : on Shukurri , near the foot of the glacier , a ffine-grained gneiss , also abundant in the moraine , and a f micaceous gneiss ( left bank ) ; and on the right ( nearly three-fifths of the way up ) a fgranite , which , according to Mr. Conway , is common down the right moraine , and considerably higher up ( camp by Hispar Snowfield ) a f micaceous gneiss .
The strikes vary from 2 ' E. of E.S.E. to 10 ' S. of E.S.E. ; the dips recorded from the lower part of the glacier , on the left bank , are vertical and 75 ' southerly , from the upper part , right bank , vertical and 60 ' northerly .
The loose specimens are ( in fallen blocks ) from the right bank below Shukurri a micaceous gneiss , from the left , on Haigutum slopes , a banded gneiss ( common ) : also a sandstone characteristic of the moraine of the Kero Lumba glacier , and from the right moraine a fine-grained gneiss ( common ) .
Evidently the rocks on either side of this huge Hispar glacier are crystalline , but an enfolded mass of comparatively unaltered sedimentaries must exist somewhere among the peaks to the south .
On Rocks and Minerals from the Karakoram Himalayas .
485 In the descent from this pass over the Biafo glacier , a fgneissoid granite was found on the right side at Snow Lake Camp ( the first halting place ) , the structure striking 10 ' N. of E. , dipping 60 ' northerly , then at " Ogre 's Camp " ( on the same side ) , and again at Nambla Camp , near the lower end of the glacier , a fmicaceous gneiss \#151 ; in the former place striking 5 ' E. of S.E. , dipping 80 ' on the southern side .
From the left bank , at the foot of Latok glacier ( eastern angle ) , comes a fgranite , which , according to Mr. Conway , forms the bulk of the debris .
Moraine specimens are : granite ( the rock which " appears to form the needles " ) , fine-grained gneiss , and two specimens of crystallised actinolite ( these , however , may be only vein products ) ( right side ) , and a slate ( obtained a few yards from Ogre 's Camp ) .
Thus the crystalline rocks along both the Hispar and the Biafo glaciers appear to be generally granite or gneiss .
The strikes recorded , both in these districts and further west along the Hunza , the Samaiyar , and the Nagyr valleys , seem to have a general tendency towards a point between S.E. and E. , roughly corresponding with the direction of this part of the main chain .
From the valley of the Biaho , rather west of the entrance of that from the Biafo glacier , comes ( near Askole ) a fmica diorite , and as loose fragments , garnetiferous ( P ) quartzite , two varieties of garnet schist , one ( water-worn ) the black kind already mentioned , the other containing chlorite and green mica , and a fine-grained sandstone .
The ascent to Skoro La pass ( roughly south of Askole ) gave a f micaceous gneiss .
The specimens indicate that the rocks enclosing the Biafo glacier correspond generally with those on the west side of the Hispar Pass , and that the belt of sedimentaries , already noted as occurring somewhere among the mountains on the left bank of the Hispar glacier , possibly is prolonged into those on the right bank of the Biafo glacier .
A rather large valley descends into the Biaho Valley , carrying the drainage of the Punmah glacier , and separated from the one occupied by the Biafo glacier by a spur-like range of lofty mountains .
The western side of the extremity of this contains fcrystalline dolomite and a ffine-grained gneiss , the eastern side a fcrystalline limestone , a fhornblende schist , a ffine-grained gneiss , and a f garnetiferous mica schist .
The strike of the dolomite on the one side , and of the limestone on the other , is 11 ' S. of S.E. , the dip being 40 ' towards the south-west .
Ascending the Biaho Valley above the junction with that bringing the water from the Punmah glacier , Mr. Conway obtained , just at the angle between them , a ffine-grained gneiss , striking 5 ' E. of S.E. , and dipping 70 ' on the south-westerly side .
Hear the foot of the Baltoro glacier , above the camp , comes a fgranite and a sandstone from the blocks in the bed of the river .
By this glacier on the north side were fgranite , a ffine-grained gneiss 486 Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss 0 .
A. Raisin .
( into which apparently the granite is intrusive ) , a fcrystalline limestone , the second striking 7 ' S. of S.S.E. , dipping 10 ' on the western side , the third striking 10 ' N. of E. , dipping 85 ' southerly , but with many contortions .
On the south side are + granites , of which , according to Mr. Conway , the mountains rising on this side of the lower part of the glacier consist .
The moraine on the right bank furnished an ordinary limestone , a black argillite , and a crystalline limestone ; the medial one a fine-grained gneiss , a sandstone , a slaty ( ?
felsitic ) tuff , a limestone , a pseudo-jade ( marked as rare ) , and three other specimens ( of which the bulk of the moraine is said to consist ) , viz. , a crushed gneiss , a sandstone , and a slate .
About this point a marked change takes place in the scenery .
Prom the higher part of the Biafo glacier the mountains are characterised by needle-like forms ; further to the east , though lofty , they are more rounded in outline .
In this part Crystal Peak rises on the right bank of the Baltoro glacier .
From its southern slope come ( order uncertain ) ffine-grained gneiss , a fcalcitic quartz schist , a tdark mica schist , fdolomite , and flimestone ( both crystalline ) , a ffine-grained gneiss , and another gneiss ( crumpled ) .
A specimen from the summit of Crystal Peak unfortunately consists mainly of crystallised quartz , but to this a little brecciated rock adheres , some fragments in which effervesce slightly and may be limestone .
The mass of practically unaltered sedimentary rocks , of which the moraine has already given ample evidence , may therefore include the Crystal Peak .
On the ascent to White Pan Pass , south-east of the same peak , were collected a tmica syenite , and a crystalline but finegrained fwliite dolomite .
A greyish fcrystalline limestone occurs , it is said , apparently belonging to a mass of green rock , in which are thin seams of fnoble serpentine .
Halfway up to this pass the strike is recorded as S.E. , the dip being 75 ' to the south-west .
A diorite comes from the Angle Peak , i.e. , that which rises from the above-named mass west of the Godwin-Austen glacier .
' The moraines from Gusherbrum give a sandstone and earthy limestones .
The right bank of the Throne glacier fphyllite , fargillite , flimestone ( these three being associated ) , fslate , and a + limestone breccia ( this , however , might be a fault product ) .
Prom the left bank of the same glacier ( whether situ is uncertain ) a finegrained gneiss , a granite , and a dolomite ( the last is said also to occur on the Golden Throne ) .
The strike in the mountains by the glacier is said to be 7 ' S. of E.S.E. ( dip about vertical ) and this continues all along the valley .
The moraine starting from the western foot of Golden Throne affords sandstone , grits , and calcareous grits ( both schistose ) , limestones , and dolomite , and the peculiar felstone described above .
Mr. Conway states that the last-named rock occurs on the mountain , and appears to form bands in the On Bocks and Minerals from the Karakoram Himalayas .
487 schistose grits .
On the Pioneer Peak the first point reached on the arete yielded schistose grits , one of which ( a purple specimen with small pebbles ) occurred again at the second peak , striking 5 ' E. of S. , and dipping 35 ' to the east .
It is evident that a considerable mass of sedimentary rock must be enfolded in the range from Gusherbrum to Golden Throne .
The valley of the Indus from Parkutta to Tolti ( roughly S.W. of the district last described ) lies among alternating diorites and granites .
Higher up , from Himis to the turn for Lama-yuru , or on either side of Leh , it is among fargillite and fslate ( just like the redder slate of Llanberis ) ; these are said by Mr. Conway to be " sandwiched " with granite .
Again and again throughout this district of the Himalayas , rocks bear evidence of severe pressure , the result of earth movements .
Putting aside those which are either certainly or probably of igneous origin , we find three rather well-marked groups .
One , fine-grained , speckled gneisses , very similar to those which occur on the south side of the Central Highlands of Scotland ( e.g. , about Blair Athol ) ; secondly , crystalline schists , limestones , and dolomites , doubtless metamorphosed sedimentaries , several of which are practically identical with specimens described by one of us from the Lepontine and Pennine Alps* ; and , thirdly , a group of sedimentary rocks ( not more than mechanically altered ) , which sometimes are very like the Mesozoic rocks of the Alps , though occasionally some have a rather more ancient aspect .
liVith these the peculiar felstones of the Golden Throne appear to be associated , and in one or two places the presence of somewhat altered fragmental rocks is suggested .
In ail probability the history of the Karakoram-Himalaya region is very similar to that of the Alps .
First , is a great floor of crystalline rock , partly igneous , partly metamorphic ( in the more strict sense of the word ) .
On that was laid down ( possibly with interruptions and marked intervening disturbances and denudations ) a series of sedimentary rocks .
This ended , all were affected by a process of folding on a gigantic scale and upreared into a mountain mass , which has been carved , by the usual agents of denudation , into peaks and valleys far surpassing in wildness and grandeur even those of the Alps.f # Q- .
Bonney , ' Quart .
Jl .
Greol .
Soc. , ' 1890 , vol. 46 , p. 187 ; and 1893 , vol. 49 , p. 89 .
f The following altitudes are taken from Mr. Conway 's volume : Dasskaram Needle , 17,660 feet ; Rash Ridge , 15,930 feet ; Hispar Pass , 17,650 feet ; Crystal Peak , 19,400 feet ; White Fan Saddle , 18,750 feet ; Pioneer Peak ( near Golden Throne ) , about 23,000 feet ( at least 22,600 feet ) .

