L 83 ] III .
On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks.\#151 ; II .
On Spencerites , a new genus of Lycopodiaceous Cones from the Coal Measures , founded on the Lepidodendron Spenceri of Williamson .
By D. H. Scott , M.A. , Pli .
D. , F.R.S. , Honorary Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received November 2 , \#151 ; Read November 18,1897 .
[ Plates 12-15 .
] Introduction .
The ffossils which form the subject of the present paper are Cryptogamic strobili showing evident Lycopodiaceous affinities , but differing in important points from other fructifications of that family , so that it appears necessary to establish a new genus for their reception .
The specimens are derived from the Coal-measures of Lancashire and Yorkshire , and are calcified , the internal structure being thus preserved in considerable perfection .
As our present knowledge of the forms in question is entirely due to the researches of the late Professor W. C. Williamson , it will be necessary to gi ve a short historical summary of the results which he attained , before going on to my own observations .
The first specimen described by Williamson^ was a strobilus , of which he received sections from Mr. Spencer and Mr. Binns , of Halifax .
From this material he gained a general idea of the structure of the axis , and showed that the sporangiophores are spirally arranged , and of peltate form , each bearing a single sporangium on its upper surface .
He pointed out the peculiarities of the sporangial wall , in which this fossil differs from typical Lepidostrobi , and described in great detail the form and structure of the remarkable winged spores , as to the true nature of which he was in much doubt .
It is unnecessary to follow his arguments in detail , but it may be mentioned that he had at that time already detected the minute sporelike bodies which sometimes occur inside the large spores , and that he interpreted the wings of the latter as consisting of their barren sister-cells , a view which no longer appears to be tenable.t * " Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal Measures , " Part IX .
, ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1878 .
Read in 1877 .
t Loc .
cit.pp .
340-344 , Plate 22 , figs. 38-47 and 52-57 .
M 2 8.3.98 At that time Williamson called the cone merely a without giving it any specific name , though he quite recognised its peculiar characters .
In his next memoir , * the author described a second specimen of the strobilus , of which he had received two transverse sections , also from Mr. Spencer .
He was thus enabled to give a fuller account of the anatomy than before , and to show that it possessed a " generally Lycopodiaceous aspect .
" He points out , however , that we do not see in this cone " any traces of transverse sections of " the leaf-trace bundles " grouped around the vascular axis , such as constitute so striking a feature of true Lepidostrobi .
" He emphasizes the " very distinctive individuality " of the strobilus , and names it Lepidostrobus insignis .
This name , therefore , has priority , as the first given to the species.t Ten years later , in 1889 , Williamson , in his 16th Memoir , described specimens from Mr. Spencer , of a supposed vegetative stem , to which he gave the name of Lepidodendron Spenceri.\The anatomical features are described and figured , and attention is especially called to the occurrence of partially-developed tracheae in the middle of the woody axis , thus proving its centripetal development .
The author overlooked the remains of foliar organs , the bases of which are often visible in these specimens , and was under the mistaken impression that the outermost cortex had perished , which is certainly not the case .
At that time he made no suggestion of any relation between LepidodendronSpenceri and the strobilus previously described . !
In the last Memoir of the series , however , || Williamson established the connection between the two .
He says ( p. 24 ) : " Since the last of the above Memoirs ( Part XVI .
) was published , I have obtained specimens highly suggestive of the probability that the strobilus of Memoir IX .
, and the twigs named L. , belonged to the same plant .
This probability is now converted into a certainty by a specimen received from Mr. Lomax , and now represented by fig. 41 , Plate 7 .
It is an obliquely transverse section through a branch of L. Spenceri ( C.N. , 624e , X 10 ) , but at its upper extremity A , it bears a portion of the strobilus of Memoir IX .
" There is no doubt that the conclusion at which Williamson thus arrived is correct ; as we shall see , the so-called vegetative specimens of Lepidodendron Spenceri are nothing but the peduncles of cones .
Unfortunately , the true vegetative organs , to which the fructifications belonged , are still unknown or unidentified .
In this Memoir , the author maintained his former opinion that the annular wing surrounding each spore , consists of its three sterile sister-cells .
A very important addition to our knowdedge is the description in Memoir XIX .
, of a fine longitudinal section of a strobilus ; from this , Williamson rightly ( though with some reserve ) * * * S * " Organization , " Ac .
, Part X. , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1880 , p. 501 .
Read , in 1879 .
t Loc .
cit. pp. 501-2 , Plate 15 , figs. 1.1 and 12 .
+ \#171 ; Organization , " Ac .
, Paid XVI .
, ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1889 .
S Loc .
cit. , p. 199 , Plates 7 and 8 , figs. 19-22 .
|| " Organization , " Ac .
, Part XIX .
, read 1892 , published 1893 .
OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
determined the mode of attachment of the sporangia to the sporophylls , a point which , as we shall see , is of the greatest importance in fixing the taxonomic position of the species .
In his 19th Memoir , Williamson points out that " the marked individuality of this rare type , " " seems to justify its recognition as a distinct species .
" In his " General Index , " however ( Part II .
, p. 24 , 1893 ) , he goes further , and speaks of Spenceri , as " a small and rare Lepidodendroid form , which presents so many peculiarities in its fructification , that it may possibly be necessary sometime , to make it the type of a new genus .
" In the " Index " the author gives an account of the variations met with in the structure of the central cylinder , and gives a fuller description of the cortex than before .
The only other account of the fossil known to me , is a short statement in Count Solms-Laubach 's ' Fossil Botany/ in which the structure of the spores is described , and the resemblance of the axis to that of Lepidodendron pointed out.# The chief object of the present paper is to show , by means of a connected account of the whole structure , based on a comparative examination of the fairly numerous preparations now available , that Williamson 's suspicion of the generic distinctness of this fossil is fully justified , and that it thus represents a new type of Lyco-podiaceous cone .
A second species of the same genus will also be described .
A word as to nomenclature is necessary at the beginning , in order that the same name may be used throughout the paper .
As mentioned above , the specific name Spenc , must be dropped , for that of insignis has the priority over it by ten years .
As the fossil is a cone and not a vegetative stem , it would thus bear Williamson 's original name of , were it not that its peculiarities , as will be shown below , demand generic separation .
In order that the discoverer of the original specimens may still be commemorated , I have selected the generic name Spencerites , so that the species in question will be called Spencerites insignis , for which Lepidostrobus insignis , Williamson , 1879 , and Lepidodendron Spenceri , Williamson , 1889 .
are synonyms .
To this species all the specimens described and figured by Williamson in the ' Phil. Trans. ' Memoirs belong .
There is , however , a second species , a specimen of which is referred to in his " General Index/ 't but not discriminated .
For the new species the name Spencerites majuscidus is proposed .
Generic and specific diagnoses will be given at the close of the paper , after the structure has been described .
* * ' Fossil Botany , ' 1887 ; English Edition , p. 239 .
f Part 2 , p. 24 .
This is the strobilns represented in the Williamson Collection by slides 621c and 624g .
T. Spencerites insignis ( ) .
1 .
The Axis and Bracts .
It makes little difference whether the structure of the axis be studied in the peduncle cr in the cone itself ; the characters are practically the same , and present similar variations in both .
The diameter of the axis ranges from 3*5 to 5 millims. As the epidermis can usually be traced as a continuous and unbroken layer , there can be no question that the specimens are complete externally , and that no part of the outer cortex has been lost ( see Plate 13 , fig. 6 ) .
The specimens of the peduncle often show the remains of foliar appendages , which are sometimes reduced to mere shreds , and are never preserved entire .
Fig. 6 shows the best specimens of one of these appendages which I have found .
It has a somewhat conical form , and evidently represents the stalk only of the organ ; whatever there may have been of the nature of a lamina has perished , except for some torn shreds .
These appendages closely resemble the stalks of the sporophylls in the actual cone ( of .
Plate 14 , fig. 11 ) ; on the other hand , they are totally unlike the bases of vegetative leaves in any of the Lycopods ; they are best regarded as sterile bracts .
Their bases by no means cover the whole exterior of the stem , as is the case in the vegetative regions of Lepidoden-dron ; a considerable part of the surface is left free .
The material does not allow of the phyllotaxis being determined from the leaves themselves , for they are only preserved occasion ally .
From the position of the leaf-traces , however , some idea of the arrangement can be gained .
On carefully following the leaf-traces in transverse section , through a complete circuit ( not an easy undertaking , as their oblique course renders them excessively obscure ) , it appears that the arrangement is a very flat spiral.* The same conclusion follows , perhaps more clearly , from the examination of a tangential section through the cortex , as shown in Plate 13 , fig. 7 .
The divergence between two adjacent leaves was about one-ninth or one-tenth of the circumference , as shown by the position of the leaf-traces in transverse sections , confirmed by a single case in which the bases of two adjacent leaves are preserved . !
It is not improbable that at some places the spiral arrangement may have passed over into a verticillate one , with crowded alternating whorls .
Passing on to the anatomy of the axis , we find that the parts usually preserved are the following:\#151 ; First , in the middle is the central strand of wood ; around this is usually a narrow empty space , from which the soft tissues ( probably phloem and perieycle ) have , as a rule , perished .
Then we come to a zone which may be called the inner cortex , in which the sections of the leaf-trace bundles may often be seen .
Beyond this is another space , more or less empty in most of the sections , and of considerable width , representing the middle cortex , which in some cases is partly preserved .
* C.N. 419b , for example , and other sections of the same group of peduncles , t Slide No. 3 in my own collection .
OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
To the outside of all is the zone of well-preserved , partly sclerotic , outer cortex , bounded externally by the epidermis , and bearing the foliar appendages , where these are preserved.* The chief variations in the structure of the central mass of wood have already been described by Williamson . !
Sometimes the tracheae occupy the whole area , extending quite to the centre ; in other sections a few thin-walled cells occur in the middle of the strand ; in others again , the central thin-walled tissue is more extensive , and appears to deserve the name of a medulla .
These variations occur both in the sterile region , which I regard as peduncle , and in the strobilus itself.^ Longitudinal sections show that the central thin-walled cells , when present , are prosenchymatous ( Plate 13 , fig. 8b , and Williamson , Mem. 16 , Plate 7 , fig. 22 ) ; they should perhaps be regarded in most cases rather as undifferentiated procambium than as constituting a true pith .
This interpretation would agree well with Williamson 's observation that tracheae with very delicate thickenings , apparently in course of development , occur in this central tissue , S showing that the centripetal differentiation of the xylem was not yet complete near the centre , even when the organ was mature .
Curiously enough , these central tracheae are sometimes spirally thickened ( fig. 8b ) , while those of the wood generally are scalariform , but they must not be confused with the narrow spiral tracheae of the protox}dem , which here , as in Lycopods generally , lie at the extreme periphery of the wood ( fig. 8a ) , and are usually somewhat disorganized .
In one of the strobili ( C.N. 1922f ter , \amp ; c. ) , the central cells appear very thick-walled ( see Plate 13 , fig. 4 ) .
If this is really their natural condition , and not due to any process of infiltration , the medulla here differs from that of other specimens .
There is no doubt from the other characters ( spores , \amp ; c. ) , that this strobilus is of the same species with the rest .
Seen in transverse section , the protoxylem-angles ( which correspond to the insertion of the leaf-trace bundles ) are not very prominent\#151 ; they are usually about 10 in number .
As a rule , the tissues immediately surrounding the wood have perished ; in one case , however|| ( see Plate 13 , fig. 5 ) , the whole of the tissue between wood and inner * See Plate 13 , fig. 4 ; also Williamson , 10th Mem. , Plate 15 , fig. 11 , and 16th Mem. , Plate 8 , fig. 19 .
t ' General Index , ' Part 2 , p. 25 .
J Thus , of the four peduncles shown in C.N. 419n , and other sections of that block , some show solid wood , others a small medulla ; the peduncle shown in C.N. 1922f bis has a considerable medulla .
Similarly , the axis of the strobilus shown in Fig. 4 ( C.N. 1922f ter ) , and that in C.N. 624 , represented by Williamson ( 10th Mem. , Plate 15 , fig. 12 ) , have a well-marked medulla , which appears to be entirely absent from the section C.N. 627 , also of a strobilus .
S " Organization , " \amp ; c. , 16th Mem. , p. 199 , Plate 7 , fig. 22 .
|| Section No. 4 in my own Collection .
Mr. Spencer informs me that this was cut from the base of the same cone of which sections are figured by Williamson , in his 10th Mem. , Plate 15 , figs. 11 and 12 and 19th Mem. , Plate 7 , fig. 50 .
cortex is preserved , though slightly crushed .
This zone consists of small , thin-walled cells , no doubt representing the phloem ; slightly larger cells , which border on the coarser cortical tissue , may be regarded as pericyclic .
The inner cortex , which is constantly preserved , consists of a few layers of fairly thick-walled somewhat elongated cells ( see Plate 14 , fig. 9 ) .
The broader middle cortex beyond has often disappeared , rather on account of its loose texture than because its cells were specially delicate .
Sometimes the more coherent sheaths , surrounding the leaf-trace bundles , are alone preserved , while in other cases the whole of the middle cortical tissue has remained fairly perfect ( see fig. 9 ) .
It consists of curiously interwoven , long , sometimes branched cells , with rather thick walls , resembling the form of trabecular tissue found by Bower in the cortex of various Lycopods , recent and fossil.* These cells are connected , sometimes with the inner or outer cortex , sometimes with the sheaths of the leaf-trace bundles .
Single cells of this layer may recall the curious internal hairs found in the cortex of the root of Pilularia .
t The outer cortex forms a fairly thick zone , nearly always well preserved , and consists in its external portion of more or less well-defined radial bands or masses of sclerenchyma , surrounded by rather more delicate tissue ( see fig. 4 ) , while its inner zone is more uniform , and without special groups of sclerenchyma .
The sclerenchyma appears to constitute a network , the meshes of which are occupied by the more delicate tissues , through which the leaf-trace bundles pass out .
The distinction between the two kinds of tissue is not always equally well marked , for sometimes the cell-walls are considerably thickened throughout the external cortex , but , on the whole , the " Dictyoxylon " structure of the cortex is characteristic , and serves , among other features , to distinguish Spencerites insfrom such forms as mundum , Will .
The elements of the outer cortex are generally prosenchymatous .
The small-celled epidermis is often very distinct ( see fig. 6 , e ) .
The leaf-trace bundles , as they start from the central cylinder , diverge but little from the vertical , gradually curving so as to assume a nearly horizontal direction before entering the bracts .
The vertical distance traversed by each leaf-trace is small\#151 ; about 0'8 millim.\#151 ; and scarcely equal to the length of an internode ( cf. Plate 13 , fig. 7 ) .
Hence , the number of these strands met with in transverse section is small , usually about nine or ten , approximately equal to the number of appendages in one circuit of the spiral .
Thus the leaf-trace bundles , owing to their small number and obliquity , by no means form so conspicuous a feature in the transverse section , as is usually the case in the axis of the , a distinction noted long ago by Williamson .
; ( * " On the Structure of the axis of Lepidostrobus 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 7 , p. 341 , Plate 17 , 1893 .
t Russow , ' Yergl .
Untersuchungen , ' Plate 2 , fig. 20 .
\#163 ; " Organization , " Part X , 1880 , p. 502 .
OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
Each bundle is surrounded by a strongly-developed sheath , which is especially evident where the lacunar middle cortex is traversed ( Plate 14 , fig. 9 , sh ) .
The structure of the bundles is best shown in tangential sections of the outer cortex ( fig. 10 ) .
The phloem has almost wholly perished , but from the position of the parts it is most probable that the bundle was concentric ; the smallest elements ( protoxylem ?
) lie toward the middle of the woody strand .
The bract-like appendages , or rather their stalks , which are alone preserved , consist of an outer envelope of thick-walled , elongated cells , within which is a more delicate tissue surrounding the vascular bundle .
The anatomical description just given applies equally to the sterile specimens , which I interpret as peduncles , and to the axis of the cone itself ( compare Plate 13 , fig. 4 with Williamson 's figure in his 16th Memoir , Plate 8 , fig. 19 ) .
So close is the agreement that the question arose whether the apparently barren specimens might not be simply withered fructifications , which had lost their sporangia , and partly lost their sporophylls , before fossilization .
It is more probable , however , that the sterile portions really represent the peduncle of the cone , for in one specimen at any rate , ' " ' peduncle and cone were found in connection .
The section ( C.N. 624e ) figured by Williamson in his 19 th Memoir , Plate 7 , figs. 41 and 42 , was cut from the transitional region between the peduncle and the actual strobilus .
It also appears that the sporophylls of the cone itself were more crowded than the bracts of the sterile specimens .
( Compare Williamson 's figure in his 9th Memoir Plate 22 , fig. 54 , with fig. 7 in the present paper .
) 2 .
Sporophylls and Sporangia .
The general organization of the cone has been fully described and illustrated by Williamson in his 9th and 19th Memoirs above cited .
The longitudinal section represented in the latter Memoir , Plate 7 , fig. 50 , is extraordinarily perfect , and gives a better idea of the whole structure than any other preparation .
In this case the arrangement of the sporophylls may not improbably have been in alternating verticils .
The section passes directly through an orthostichy of sporophylls on either side of the axis .
It is instructive to compare the tangential section , figured by Williamson ( from another specimen ) in his 9th Memoir , Plate 22 , figs. 54 , 55 , which show very clearly the alternation of the sporophylls in the adjacent orthostichies .
The short sporophylls and spherical sporangia give the cone a very different habit from that of a Lepidostrobus .
The form of the individual sporophyll is peltate ; the stalk is horizontal , resembling that of the bracts already described ; at the distal end it expands into a lamina , of looser tissue , projecting both upwards and downwards , so as to cover in the sporangia lying between .
A single sporangium belongs to each sporophyll , as is * From which sections C.N. 624d , e , and F , and 1922f in the Williamsoh Collection were cut .
VOL. CLXXX1X.\#151 ; B. N evident from the comparison of sections in the three planes ( see Plate 14 , figs. 11 and 13 , together with Williamson 's figures above cited ) .
The most important question relates to the point of insertion of the sporangia on the sporophylls .
Williamson ( 19th Memoir , p. 25 ) determined this with perfect accuracy , though he expressed his opinion with some reserve .
The sporangium is attached , by a narrow neck of tissue only , to the upper side of the sporophyll , near its distal end , where the lamina begins to expand .
There is no attachment whatever to the horizontal pedicel of the supporting organ , and in this respect Spencerites differs entirely from any species of Lepidostr The point of attachment is evident at several places in the radial section referred to .
In Plate 14 , fig. 11 , which is taken from this preparation , the lower sporophyll is incomplete , hut the insertion of the sporangium at a is unmistakable , though slightly obscured by a fragment of coal which overlies the connecting tissue .
In the sporophyll next above , the connection with its sporangium is broken , but the point of attachment was no doubt at a. In fig. 12 from another preparation , a sporophyll is figured , which has been detached from its base , and is fortunately cut in the radial plane .
The form of the lamina is well shown , and at a the remains of a sporangium , seated on its upper surface , near its junction with the pedicel , are evident .
The points of sporangial insertion detected by Williamson , have been re-examined and .
his interpretation confirmed .
A reference to Williamson 's figure ( 19th Memoir , Plate 7 , fig. 50 , e ' and f " ) will show that the place of insertion is on the upward slope of the peltate lamina , here incompletely preserved .
Our fig. 13 is from a transverse section , and shows very clearly that the sporangium is connected at its distal end with the sporophyll-lamina .
The connecting neck of tissue was evidently wider in the tangential than in the radial plane .
The vascular bundle approached very closely to the base of the sporangium and may have been connected with it by a short branch ( figs. 11 and 12 ) .
The structure of the sporangial wall was described and figured by Williamson in his first account of the fossil.* In its present state of preservation it is one cell only in thickness ( except sometimes near the point of attachment ) ; the cells of which it consists are prosenchymatous , their elongation lying in the plane of the sporangial surface , and not at right angles to it .
They thus differ entirely from the palisadelike cells which usually constitute the wall of the sporangium in Lepidostrobus .
The lateral septa of the cells of the sporangial wall are considerably thickened , while their top and bottom membranes are much more delicate .
3 .
The Spores .
The spores themselves have been very fully described by Williamson , whose interpretation of their structure , however , is , I believe , mistaken .
Each spore , in its * " Organization , " Part IX .
, p. 341 , Plate 22 , fig. 38 .
OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
01 mature , state , has approximately the form of an oblate spheroid , with a broad hollow wing running round its equator ( see Plate 14 , figs. 11 and 14a).# The maximum diameter of the spore itself is on the average O'14 millim. , while the whole diameter , including the wing , reaches 0*28 millim. The membrane of the spore is thick ; that of the wing is excessively delicate .
The cavity of the wing is widest at a short distance from its insertion on the spore , and narrows off towards its outer edge .
Williamson interpreted the wing as consisting of the abortive sister-cells of the spore .
For this view there is , I think , no evidence .
The cavity of the wing always appears empty , whereas that of the spore itself constantly shows some remains of cell'Contents .
Also , the wing appears to be perfectly continuous all round the spore , and not to be in any way sub-divided into compartments or cells .
The fusion of the three abortive sister-cells of a macrospore into such a continuous ring , is entirely without precedent , and can hardly be assumed in the absence of any positive evidence .
The fact that the winged spores of \gt ; Spencei'itesare often found still grouped in their original tetrads ( see fig. 14b ) is also opposed to the interpretation of each spore as itself representing a group of four sister-cells .
On the latter assumption , wre should have tetrads of tetrads , an arrangement for which there seems to be no analogy .
There is , I think , no doubt that the interpretation of the wing suggested by Count Solms-Latjbach is the right one , t namely , that it " represents an organ analogous with the air-sacs of the pollen of the Pine .
" When seen in sectional view , the spore of S. insignis bears a considerable resemblance to the pollen grain of ( see fig. 14 ) , though , as the superficial aspect shows ( see fig. 11 ; also , Williamson , 19th Mem. , Plate 7 , figs. 43 and 44 ) , its real form is quite different , for in the fossil the air-sac forms a continuous rim all round the spore , a fact not recognised by Count Solms-Laubach .
There is little doubt , however , that the wing agrees with the air-sacs of Pinus pollen in being formed by a dilation of the cuticle , and probably its function was the same .
The four spores of a tetrad are arranged tetrahedrally , as is shown with great clearness in some of the sporangia ( see Plate 14 , fig. 14b , and compare with Williamson , 9th Mem. , Plate 22 , fig. 57 ) .
At this stage , the tetrahedral form of the individual spores is still evident : when they become free their shape grows more spheroidal .
The lines of junction of the three sister-cells are indicated on the spore by three sharp ridges , meeting each other at an angle of 120 ' ( see Williamson , 19th Mem. , Plate 9 , fig. 49 , and fig. 14a in the present paper ) .
The wings lie in the planes of the four free surfaces of the tetrahedral group ( see fig. 14b ) .
Hence the wing of each spore , as seen in surface view , has a somewhat triangular outline ( see fig. 11 ) .
The cell-contents of the spore are often represented merely by a dark carbonaceous mass in the middle of the cell .
In other cases , however , the central body shows a * Also Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 22 , figs. 4G , \amp ; c. , and Part XIX .
, Plate 7 , figs. 43 and 44 .
t ' Fossil Botany , ' English edition , p. 239 .
very definite structure , forming a regular reticulum , suggestive of a cellular tissue ( fig. 14a , cb .
) .
In other cases again , a number of small spherical spore-like bodies are contained within the large spore , a condition which has been repeatedly figured by Williamson.* These minute spore-like bodies have an average diameter of about 0'02 millim. They have a very distinct outline , and evidently possess a membrane of their own , which in some cases has split .
Similar sporules , as we may provisionally call them , also occasionally occur free in the cavity of the sporangia ; in one case where this was noticed , two large spores in their neighbourhood had manifestly burst , and there is little doubt that it was from them that the free sporules had been derived .
In some cases appearances are met with within the larger spores , which indicate that the sporules may be developed from the central reticulum .
The latter body has been interpreted as a prothallium , a very tempting idea , and probable enough if we consider the analogous case observed by M. Renault in the pollen grains of Cordaites .
It is impossible to arrive at a certain conclusion , but the impression left on one 's mind , after the examination of a great number of spores , is rather that the reticulum is the expression of some pathological or post-mortem change in the cell-contents .
The definite cellular appearance seems to be only a particular case of a variable and inconstant frothy coagulation .
IIow , then , are we to interpret the free sporules which occasionally appear , and which seem to have been sometimes set free by the bursting of the spores within which they were formed ?
Various possible views were discussed by Williamson , without his reaching any decisive conclusion . !
The sporules are of comparatively rare occurrence , and I do not myself believe that they form part of the normal structure of the spores .
That the large winged bodies really are the spores ( whether microspores or macrospores ) can no longer be doubted , and the production of spores within spores would be a phenomenon without analogy among Vascular Cryptogams . !
I therefore incline to regard these sporules as foreign bodies , possibly the product of some low organism , parasitic or saprophytic , within the spore .
Fungi living and fructifying within pollen grains and spores are well known at the present day .
S Another possibility which has been suggested to me is that the " sporules " may merely represent altered vesicular aggregations of the protoplasm of the spores .
Such bodies have often been observed in the cells of recent plants , when rich in tannin , and may present a deceptive resemblance to Fungal or Myxomycetous spores .
Structures , probably of the same nature , have also been detected in fossil * * * S * " Organization , " Part IX , Plate 22 , figs. 42-44 ; Part XIX .
, Plate 9 , fig. 48 .
f " Organization , " Part IX .
, p. 343 .
J Spermatozoid mother-cells might be thought of in this connection , but such cells , as known to us among recent plants , are far too delicate to be preserved in so definite a form .
S E.g. , Rhizophidium pollinis , Olpidium pendulum , See Zopf , " Dio Pilze , " in Schenk 's ' Handbuch der Botanik , ' vol. 4 , pp. 296 , 297 , and 556 .
OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
vegetable tissues.'5 ' The great definiteness of the membrane of the " sporules , " which has sometimes split , with a perfectly sharp fissure , suggests however the cuticularized cell-wall of an actual spore , rather than a mere precipitation-membrane .
In any case , it will be safer , in the present state of our knowledge , to leave the " sporules " out of consideration , in discussing the morphology of the spores of Spencerites .
We have at present , no means of determining whether Spencerites was homosporous , or if heterosporous , whether the winged spores represent microspores or macrospores .
In dimensions they are intermediate between the two , if we compare them with the spores of other Lycopods .
The maximum diameter of the spore of Spencerites insignis ( not counting the wing ) is pretty constantly about 0T4 millim. The microspores of Lepidostrobi are very much smaller , usually about 0'02 to 0'03 millim. , though those of L. Brownii Schp .
reach a diameter of about 0*05 millim. On the other hand , the macrospores of the Carboniferous Lycopodiacese were usually of very large size .
Of the numerous macrospores described by Mr. Kidston+ ( among which those of Sigillariost as well as are probably included ) the great majority are from 1 to 2 millims. in diameter ; the smallest exceeds 0'5 millim. Macrospores belonging to Lepidostrobi from Oldham and from Burntisland , which I have measured , were about 0'8 millim. in diameter .
The macrospores of Sigillariostrobus were very large , varying from 1*5 millim. to 2 millims. in different species.^ The macrospores of recent heterosporous Lycopods ( Selaginella and Isoetes ) range from about 0'2 to 0*5 millim. On the whole then , it appears that the spores of Spencerites insignis are decidedly large for microspores , and decidedly small for macrospores .
The comparatively small numbers in which they occur in each sporangium ( see fig. 11 ) would suggest the latter rather than the former , but no conclusion can be drawn .
So far as I can ascertain , only four distinct specimens of the actual cone are known .
In these , all the sections ( which in two of the specimens include the base of the cone ) show spores of one kind only .
A few minute spore-like bodies have occasionally been detected , but , as mentioned above , they appear to have escaped from the interior of large spores , and to be foreign or pathological products , and certainly not microspores .
4 .
Abortive Sporangia .
In one of the sections of the original specimen of the cone , S some of the sporangia shown have a very different appearance from the ordinary ones , and offer , at first * * * S * Seward , " On Cycadeoidea gigantea ' Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society , ' Feb. , 1897 , vol. 53 , p. 26 .
t J. Bennie and R. Kidston , " On the Occurrence of Spores in the Carboniferous Formation of Scotland .
" ' Proc. Roy .
Phys. Soc. , ' Edinburgh , vol. 9 , p. 82 , 1886 .
X Zeiller , " Cones de Fructification de Sigillaria'Ann .
des Sci. Not .
( Bot. ) , ' Scr .
6 , vol. 19 , 1885 .
S See Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, PI .
22 , fig. 53e , C.N. 626 .
sight , a startling resemblance to seeds .
One of these sporangia is shown in detail in Plate 15 , fig. 15 .
In this case the section evidently passes medianly through the sporangium , so Williamson 's interpretation " sporangial wall , " which would imply that it is cut tangentially , will not hold good here .
The anomalous sporangia , which are much smaller than the normal organs , are evidently attached , as usual , at their distal ends , but the sporophylls in this part are crowded and apparently somewhat displaced .
Williamson supposed , no doubt with good reason , that this section was cut near one end of the strobilus.* The wall of the anomalous sporangia appears to have been several cells in thickness .
The cavity is partly filled by a carbonized mass , showing some traces of a cellular structure , and seated on a pad of tissue at the end where the sporangium is itself attached to its sporophyll .
From the black mass delicate fibrils radiate , connecting it in places with the sporangial wall , from which it appears to have contracted away , before fossilization .
None of the other sections , either of the same or of different specimens , show these anomalous sporangia , which , in all probability , are simply abortive organs , the development of which had been arrested at a rather early stage .
If so , they afford evidence that the inner layers of the wall were absorbed as the sporangium became ripe .
The consideration of the affinities of Spenc insignis will be postponed until the next species has been described .
II .
Spencerites majusculus , nov .
1 .
General Characters .
This form was not described or distinguished from the previous species Williamson , though two sections of it are cited in his " General Index , " !
' under the head of " Lepidodendron Spenceri .
" So far as I know , only one specimen of the new species has ever been found .
This wras discovered by Mr. J. Spencer , who prepared a number of sections from it .
Only two of these ( both transverse ) are in the Williamson collection .
I have examined numerous other preparations , including four longitudinal sections , two of which , one radial and the other tangential , are figured in the present paper , in addition to a transverse section ( Plates 12 and 13 , figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
The comparison of all the sections examined has completely cleared up the important points in the structure of the strobilus , and has shown that it is nearly allied to , though quite distinct from , the former species .
The specimen consists of the strobilus only ; all the sections show the sporophylls borne upon the axis .
The diameter of the whole cone , including the sporophylls is * Loc .
cit. , Port IX .
, p. 341 .
f Part II .
, p. 25 .
The sections ai'e 324c and t\gt ; 24u .
OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
about 15 milliras .
, while that of the axis is quite 9 millims. , much larger than that of S. insignis , which does not exceed 5 millims. The short sporophylls and thick axis give a characteristic habit to the fruit .
The diameter of the central cylinder is about 17 millims. , quite double that in the former species ( see Plate 12 , fig. 1 , and Plate 15 , fig. 17 ) .
The state of preservation is similar to that of most specimens of S. insignis ; the wood is perfectly preserved ; only slight remains of the phloem are present ; the inner zone of cortex immediately surrounding the central cylinder is in good preservation ; beyond this is a wide empty space , from which the middle cortical tissue has entirely disappeared , except that in some cases the leaf-trace bundles , enclosed in their sheaths , are seen crossing the gap ( fig. 17 ) .
Lastly , the dense layer of outer cortex is perfect and bounded by a definite epidermis .
The arrangement of the sporophylls cannot be determined with certainty from the transverse sections , but the tangential section ( represented in Plate 13 , fig. 3 ) leaves little doubt that , in this part of the cone , at any rate , they were placed in alternating verticils .
Judging from the position of the sporophyll-bases , as shown in transverse section , the number of members in each verticil must have been fourteen or fifteen .
The form of the sporophylls and their relation to the sporangia will be considered below .
2 .
The Axis .
Taking the structure more in detail , and beginning with the steal of the axis , we find that the wood extends to the centre , without any indication of a pith or of conjunctive parenchyma ( Plate 12 , fig. 2 , and Plate 15 , fig. 17 ) .
At the periphery of the wood are a large number ( about thirty ) of prominent groups of very small tracheae , which the radial section shows to be spiral .
Elsewhere , the elements of the wood are of the usual scalariform type .
The large number of protoxylem-groups is a marked difference from S. insignis , where their number is usually about ten , and has not been found to exceed fourteen .
Their number in the present species appears to correspond to that of the orthostichies of sporophylls , and is therefore double the number of the members in each verticil .
There are some slight remnants of the soft tissue ( no doubt phloem ) , immediately surrounding the xylem ( fig. 17 , The inner cortex consists of several layers of rather delicate , elongated cells ( figs. 1 , 2 , and 17 ) .
The broad zone of middle cortex has entirely disappeared , leaving an empty gap , crossed in some places by the leaf-trace strands ( fig. 17 ) .
The outer cortex consists of almost uniform sclerotic tissue , the elements of which are prosenchymatous ( figs. 1 and 2 ) .
There is no differentiation into radial bands of diverse structure , and this uniformity of the outer cortex forms another distinction from S. insignis , in which the corresponding zone has the " Dictyoxylon " character .
The leaf-trace bundles are met with at all points of their outward course , and are best seen in transverse sections through the inner cortex ( fig. 17 ) .
Both in their direction and structure they agree closely with those of insignis , but , they appear in greater numbers in transverse section .
9G DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE STRUCTURE AND AFFINITIES 3 .
The Sporophylls and Sporangia .
The form of the sporophylls is a complex and peculiar one .
Each sporophyli consists of a petiole and a lamina .
The former is inserted , with a somewhat broad base , on the axis , and tapers towards the distal end ( compare Plate 12 , figs. 1 and 2 ; Plate 13 , fig. 3 , and Plate 15 , fig. 16 ) .
The sectional form of the petiole is that of an ellipse , with its main axis horizontal ( fig. 3 ) .
In general appearance this part of the sporophyli is similar to that of S. insignis .
As in that plant the outer tissue of the petiole is prosenchymatous and thick-walled ; within this , is a more delicate strand of parenchyma , enclosing the vascular bundle .
The laminse are expremely conspicuous objects in all the preparations ( see Plate 12 , figs. 1 and 2 ; Plate 13 , fig. 3 ) , though in the transverse sections their connection with the rest of the specimen is not usually evident ( fig. 1 ) .
The point of connection between petiole and lamina wras evidently a weak place in the tissue , and has generally broken down , but in several cases , as in the sporophyll figured , in radial section , in Plate 15 , fig. 16 , the continuity is perfect , though there is a bend or kink at the weak spot .
The lamina widens and broadens out suddenly , in every direction , from its point of attachment to the petiole .
Its greatest dimension is in the tangential direction , in which its width is about 3 millims. ( figs. 1 and 3 ) .
In the radial plane the lamina reaches a length of about 2'5 millims. ( figs. 2 and 16 ) .
The extreme vertical height or thickness is about 2 millims. , as best shown in the tangential section ( fig. 3 ) .
This section , which passes rather obliquely through the laminae towards the left hand side , gives an excellent idea of the way they were packed together in alternating rows , each lamina thus acquiring a somewhat diamond-shaped outline .
At its outer margin the lamina thins out into a narrow horizontal ridge , shown in figs. 2 , 3 , and 16 .
The laminae must have had a fleshy character during life ; they consist almost wholly of a very large-celled parenchyma , bounded externally by an epidermis of smaller cells , with thickened external walls ( fig. 16 ) .
The small vascular bundle runs near the upper surface .
The thick fleshy laminae form a most characteristic feature of the species .
Fragments of the sporangia , with their contained spores , occur everywhere in the space between the laminae and the axis ( figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
In their shattered condition , the form of the sporangia cannot be determined with any exactness , but judging from the better preserved specimens , it would seem to have been approximately spherical , as in S. insignis ( Plate 15 , fig. 16 ) .
The important question of the insertion of the sporangia on the sporophylls could only be determined by the comparison of a number of instances .
The sporophyll shown in radial section , in fig. 16 , gives a good idea of the relative positions .
The sporangium is certainly free from the petiole .
It appears to have been attached on the upper surface exactly at OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
the point ( a ) where the petiole passes over into the lamina .
From this case alone , one could not be certain that the sporangium might not also have been adherent to the upper face of the lamina itself , but other sporophylls show clearly that the two organs were free from each other in this region , and that the only attachment was at the point indicated .
In particular , the tangential section , shown in Plate 13 , fig. 3 , is conclusive as to the absence of any adhesion between lamina and sporangium .
At a the plane of section passes through the junction of the lamina and petiole of one of the sporophylls , and here the remains of a sporangium attached to the upper surface at this point are clearly seen .
It appears then that the place of insertion of the sporangium in this species is essentially the same as in though relatively nearer the axis , owing to the great development of the laminar portion of the sporophyll in S. majusculus .
The membrane of the sporangium , in its present condition , consists of a single layer of prosenchymatous cells , and is much like that of S. insignis ( see Plate 15 , figs. 18 and 19 ) .
Seen in transverse section , the cells appear triangular , their thick lateral walls forming a regular zigzag , more definite here than in insignis .
The inner and outer cell-walls are delicate , the outer usually the better preserved of the two ( fig. 19 a ) .
4 .
The Spores .
The spores , sometimes found within the sporangium , and sometimes scattered about outside , are very characteristic , and afford , perhaps , the best diagnostic character of the species .
The spores of S. majusculus are not tetrahedral like those of S. , but have the form of quadrants of a sphere ( see Plate 15 , fig. 19b-e ) .
They are winged , but in quite a different way from those of the former species , for in S. majusculus each spore has three wings running along the three angles of the quadrant ( fig. 19b and e ) .
The wings themselves are thin , and not obviously hollow like those of S. insignis .
The dimensions are smaller , the extreme length of the spore without wings varying from 0'09 to 0T2 millim. , and inclusive of the wings reaching 0T5 millim. Thus the wings are narrower , and the dimensions of the winged spore , as a whole , little more than half those of $ .
insignis .
Remains of the contracted cell-contents are often found , and occasionally distinct , cell-like bodies , comparable , perhaps , to the similar structures in the former species , occur within the spores .
In one preparation ( C.N. , 624c ) a few minute spore-like bodies were found free , but their connection with the specimen is altogether doubtful .
The spores are occasionally found grouped together , as if in their original tetrads ( figs. 19d and e ) .
They are arranged , as might be expected from their form , like the quadrants of a sphere , and not in tetrahedrons .
The spores are , on the whole , less perfectly preserved than in S. insignis , but the difference between those of the two species is evident at the first glance .
( Compare Plate 14 , figs. 11 and 14 with Plate 15 , fig. 19 .
) VOL. CLXXXIX.\#151 ; B. O Conclusions .
There are two questions to be considered in conclusion : the relation between the two forms which have been described , and the relation of both together to other plants .
The smaller question will be taken first .
No one who has compared the specimens which I have referred to majusculus and S. insignis , or the drawings of their structure accompanying the present paper , is likely to doubt that the two forms are specifically quite distinct .
The great difference in absolute dimensions ( the axis of S. majusculus being about twice as thick as that of S. insignis ) , though striking enough , would go for little if it stood alone .
It is accompanied , however , by a considerable difference in the relative dimensions of axis and sporophylls , and by marked structural distinctions , in the outline of the wood , the arrangement of the leaf-trace bundles , and the details of the outer cortex .
The sporophylls are not only much larger in S. majusculus than in S. insignis , while relatively shorter in the former as compared with the size of the axis , but have a somewhat different form , though the superior preservation of these organs in the former renders exact comparison difficult .
The great tangential width of the lamina is characteristic of S. majusculus , while the peltate form , as seen in radial section , is more marked in S. insignis .
The sporangia are similar in both , but the spores are quite different , those of S. insignis being decidedly the larger , of tetrahedral or spheroidal form , with a broad equatorial wing , while those of S. majusculus are smaller , with the form of quadrants of a sphere , each spore having three narrow wings running along its angles .
The difference in the dimensions of the spores is not sufficient to justify us in regarding them as microspores and macrospores of the same species , nor would such a suggestion be consistent with the other marked distinctions between the strobili .
On the other hand , the two species , distinct as they are , have much in common .
The general anatomy is similar ; in this respect the two forms resemble each other more closely than they resemble any other known strobilus .
The sporophylls , with their broad laminae , sharply marked off from the almost cylindrical petiole , are characteristic of both forms jointly .
The insertion of the sporangium , by a narrow attachment , to the upper surface of the sporophyll , where it begins to expand into the lamina , is as I have shown , essentially the same in both .
The spores also have something in common , at least in the fact that they are winged , while the form and structure of the sporangium are alike in both .
These various points of agreement and difference find , I believe , their best expression , if we regard the two forms as two species of the same genus .
We now come to the more important question of the relation of these forms to other plants , and especially to other members of the Palaeozoic Flora .
That the strobili are Lycopodiaceous can scarcely be questioned , for this conclusion OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
follows at once from the position of the sporangia , seated singly on the upper surface of each sporophyll , and from the whole anatomical structure .
It is natural to place any Palaeozoic Lycopodiaceous cone , in the first instance , in the genus Lepidostrobus , and this is the position hitherto assigned to insignis , though Williamson , as already mentioned , thought it might ultimately be necessary to make it the type of a new genus.* I think the results of the renewed examination of this fossil , and the discovery of a second allied species , indicate that the time has come when Williamson 's suggestion should be carried into effect .
We may take the generic character of , given by M. Zeiller , as fairly representing the modern conception of the genus .
In the following literal translation the italics are M. Zeiller 's own : " Cones of fructification cylindrical , oblong , or ovoid ; composed of a woody axis bearing sporangiferous bracts arranged in a spiral , and somewhat crowded .
Bracts formed of ct narrow pedicel , usually normal to the axis , and of a uni-nervate limb , lanceolate or linear-lanceolate in outline , generally erect , and often even applied to the surface of the cone .
Sporangia ovoid , solitary , fixed upon the superior face of the pedicel of the bracts."t Of these characters the spiral arrangement of the sporophylls is , perhaps , the least constant , for M. Zeiller himself points out in the same work that in his Lepidostrobus Olryi the phyllotaxis is verticillate .
I therefore attach no importance to the fact that in Spencerites the arrangement appears to have been variable in this respect .
In several points , however , the strobili described above diverge from the character of Lepidostrobus .
The form of the limb or lamina is totally unlike , and its preservation , especially in S. majusculus , is sometimes sufficiently perfect for us to be sure that the difference is a real one .
The sporangia are not ovoid , but approximately spherical , and , which is the chief point , they are not fixed upon the superior surface of the pedicel , but are altogether free from this part of the sporophyll , and only attached , by a narrow base , to the lamina where it begins to expand .
It is instructive to compare such a species of Lepidostrobus as L. Olryi , Zeill .
with our strobili .
In dimensions and general form .
Olryi appears to be not unlike our Spencerites insignis , but , in the former , the attachment of the elongated sporangium to the whole upper surface of the pedicel is evident from M. Zeiller 's detailed figure , and at once distinguishes this species as a true Lepidostrobus .
| The attachment of the sporangium , either by the whole length of its lower surface , or by a considerable part of it , to the upper side of the pedicel , appears to be constant in all species of Lepidostrobus where the preservation is sufficiently good for such points to be determined , and must , in my opinion be regarded as an essential character of the genus .
S It is chiefly on this ground , then , that I base the generic * * * S * ' General Index , ' Part II .
, p. 24 , 1893 .
f Zeiller , " Bassin Houiller de Valenciennes .
" ' Flore Fossile , ' 1888 , p. 496 .
X Zeiller , loc. cit. , Atlas , Plate 77 , figs. 1 and 1a .
S Any of the published figures of well-preserved Lepiclostrobi will serve to illustrate this character separation of Spencerites from Lepidostrobus , but the character derived from the insertion of the sporangia is supported by several others , namely the form of the sporophylls and sporangia , the structure of the sporangial wall , and of the spores , the arrangement of the leaf-traces , and the whole habit of the strobilus .
The resemblance of Spencerites insignis to a cone described by M. Zeiller under the name of Sigillariostrobus Crepini'* is rather striking , and for some time led me to suppose that both our species might belong to the genus Sigillariostrobus , in which case they would have been of special interest as the first known fructifications of Sigillariawith their structure preserved . !
M. Zeiller most kindly sent me the type specimen of S. Crepini for examination , so I was able to compare it directly with the preparations of our strobili .
M. Zeiller 's fossil is preserved in the form of impressions , of which there are two on the same fragment of rock .
As M. Zeiller pointed out in a letter to me , the dark colour of the matrix somewhat obscures the details of the fossil , but I was able to satisfy myself as to all the important points shown in the author 's figures .
Sigillariostrobus Crepini agrees with Spencerites insignis in the dimensions of the axis , the arrangement of the sporophylls , and to some extent in their form .
So far as can be ascertained , the two plants also agree in the position of the sporangia , which in Sigillariostrobus appear to be free from the pedicel and attached at the distal end to the spoon-shaped lamina of the sporophyll .
The point is , of course , comparatively obscure in the French fossil , owing to its mode of preservation , but I believe M. Zeiller 's interpretation to be the correct one .
Up to this time nothing whatever was known of the sporangia ( as distinguished from the spores ) of Sigillariostrobus , with the solitary exception of S. Crepini , so it was permissible to suppose that their insertion at the distal end of the sporophyll might be characteristic of the genus .
Since then , however , owing to the kindness of my friend , Mr. F. Kidston , F.G.S. , I have had the opportunity of examining a fine specimen of his Sigillariostrobus ciliatus , in which the sporangia containing the macrospores are wTell preserved .
Mr. Kidston is about to publish a full account of the fossil in the ' Transactions of the Foyal Society of Edinburgh , ^ so I will only say that the examination of the specimen in question appears to leave no doubt that in this Sigillariostrobus the The diagram by Williamson , " Organization , " Part XIX .
, Plate 6 , fig. 62 , is quite true to nature for Lepidostrobus Oldhamius , and contrasts sharply with Spencerites insignis , as shown in Plate 7 , fig. 50 of the same memoir .
Hooker 's figure , from L. ornatus ( 'Mem .
Geol .
Survey of Great Britain , ' vol. 2 , Part II .
, Plate 8 , fig. 11 , 1848 ) , reproduced in various text-hooks , e.g. , Solms-Laubach , 'Fossil Bot. , ' fig. 25c , may illustrate another type , which would approach rather nearer to Spencerites , though still quite distinct .
* Zeiller , " Bassin Houiller de Valenciennes .
" ' Flore Fossile , ' Plate 77 , fig. 3 .
t See ' British Association Report , ' 1896 , p. 1024 .
1 This has now appeared : " On the Fossil Flora of the Yorkshire Coal-field ; Second Paper .
" Loc .
cit. .
vol. 39 , Part I. , No. 5 , 1897.\#151 ; Jan. 26 , 1898 .
OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
sporangium is attached along the whole of its lower surface to the horizontal pedicel of the sporophyll , and that it is partly roofed in above by a kind of indusiurn , arising from the upturned lamina , as in Isoetes .
In these points ( to which Mr. Kidston first called my attention ) Sigillariostrobus ciliatus differs entirely from and apparently from Sigillariostrobus Crepinialso .
In the face of these facts it is impossible to unite Spencerites with Sigillariostrobus , any more than with Lepidostrobus ; our two species are best regarded as the representatives of a distinct Lycopodiaceous genus .
This conclusion leaves us in doubt as to the true nature of M. Zeiller 's Sigillariostrobus Crepini .
As that author points out , it seems to be quite distinct from Lepidostrobus , and to bear a considerable likeness to some undoubted Sigillariostrobi , especially S. Goldenbergi , Zeiller.* Possibly Sigillariostrobus , as at present constituted , may have to be broken up into two or more genera , in which case it may be that S. Crepini and our Spencerites may still be brought together .
Until , however , we are acquainted with the internal structure of the Sigillarian fructifications , no definitive re-arrangement can be carried out .
In the insertion of the sporangium , by a narrow base , on the distal portion of the sporophyll , Spencerites differs from all other known Lycopods .
It is at the opposite extreme from Selaginella , where the sporangia are axillary .
There is a certain analogy with the insertion of the synangium in Psilotacese , especially but this comparison is of doubtful value , so long as the homologies of the Psilotaceous synangium remain uncertain . !
If Professor Bower is right in believing that the synangium represents a single , elaborated sporangium , then the comparison with Spencerites may hold good .
But if , as GoebelJ supposed , the synangium corresponds to a fertile branch , or if , as I have ventured to suggest in a previous paper , S it represents the sporangiferous pedicel in Sphenophyllese , then the structure is no longer comparable with that of our fossil .
However this may be , the Psilotaceae appear to be too remote from the strobiloid Lycopods to throw much light on a fructification like that of Spencerites .
In the fact that the insertion of the sporangium is broader in the tangential than in the radial direction , the new genus differs conspicuously from Lepidostrobus , and resembles some living species of Lycopodium , such as L. clavatum and L. || The distal insertion of the sporangium\#151 ; reminding us of Cheirostrobus and the Sphenophylleae , otherwise so remote\#151 ; may perhaps be an indication that Spencerites * * * S * Loc .
cit. , Plate 89 , fig. 1 .
f See Bower , " Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members , " Part I. , Phil. Trans. , B , vol. 185 , 1894 , p. 539 , where the various interpretations are stated .
t 'Bot .
Zeitung , ' 1881 .
S " On Cheirostrobus , " \amp ; c. , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 189 , p. 1 , 1897 .
|| Bower , loc. cit. , Plate 47 , fig. 92 .
represents a somewhat more archaic type of Lycopodiaceous strobilus than that of Lepidostrobus .
Diagnosis .
Spencerites , gen .
nov .
Cone consisting of a cylindrical axis , bearing numerous simple sporophylls , arranged spirally , or in crowded alternating verticils .
Sporophylls short , formed of a sub-cylindrical pedicel expanding into a large peltate lamina .
Sporangia , solitary on each sporophyll , inserted , by a narrow base , on the upper surface of the lamina , but free from the pedicel .
Sporangial wall , formed of a single layer of prosenchymatous cells .
Spores winged .
1 .
Spencerites insignis ( Will .
) .
Lepidostrobus , sp. , Williamson , " Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures , " Part IX .
, 'Phil .
Trans./ 1878 , p. 340 , figs. 39 to 47 and 52 to 57 .
Lepidostrobus insignis , Will .
, loc. cit. , Part X. , 'Phil .
Trans./ 1880 , p. 502 , figs. 11 and 12 .
Lepidodendron Spenceri , Will .
, loc. cit. , Part XVI .
, 'Phil .
Trans./ 1889 , p. 199 , figs. 19 to 22 .
Loc .
cit. , Part XIX .
, 'Phil .
Trans./ 1893 , p. 24 , figs. 41 to 50 .
Cone pedunculate .
Peduncle bractigerous .
Whole cone , 8 to 10 millims. in diameter .
Axis , 3*5 to 5 millims. in diameter .
Sporophylls , 2 to 2'5 millims. long ; lamina distinctly peltate , vertically elongated .
Sporangia approximately spherical .
Spores tetrahedral , becoming spheroidal when free , with a hollow equatorial wing .
Maximum diameter of spore without wing , about 0T4 millim. ; with wing , about 0*28 millim. Wood of axis , 10-arch to 14-arch , without prominent angles ; with or without pith .
Outer cortex containing distinct bands of sclerenchyma .
Locality , near Halifax and Huddersfield .
Horizon , Lower Coal-Measures .
2 .
Spencerites majusculus , sp. nov .
Whole cone , about 15 millims. in diameter .
Axis , about 9 millims. in diameter .
OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
Sporophylls , about 3 millims. long ; lamina obscurely peltate , as seen in radial section , but greatly expanded tangentially , attaining a breadth of 3 millims. Sporangia approximately spherical .
Spores , having the form of quadrants of a sphere , with three narrow wings .
Maximum diameter of spore without wings , on the average about 0*11 millim. ; with wings , about 0T5 millim. Wood of axis , with about thirty somewhat prominent angles ; without pith .
Outer cortex uniformly sclerotic .
Locality , near Halifax .
Horizon , Lower Coal-Measures .
It must be remembered that S. majusculus is described from a single specimen , so it is to be expected that the specific character will require modification in the future .
The specimens of S. insignisare more numerous , but so far as the actual strobilus is concerned , I am only acquainted with four distinct examples .
In addition to the slides in the Williamson Collection and in my own , I have had the use of two sections lent by Mr. Spencer , and of preparations from the Hick , Wild , and Cash Collections in the Manchester Museum .
For the loan of the latter I am indebted to Professor F. E. Weiss , of the Owens College .
Of the illustrations to this paper , six , namely , figs. I , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , and 12 , were drawn for me by Mr. G. T. Gwilliam , and the remainder by Mr. W. C. Worsdell .
Explanation of Plates , 12-15 .
PLATE 12 .
Spencerites majusculus .
Fig. 1 .
Transverse section of strobilus .
x. , wood of axis ; .
, inner cortex ; the middle cortex has perished , leaving a space into which Stigmarian rootlets have penetrated ; o.c. , outer cortex , in which the leaf-trace bundles can be seen at several places ; sm .
, remains of sporangia , containing spores ; sph .
, bases of sporophylls ; / .
, laminae of sporophylls .
X 10 .
S. , 7# ( from Mr. J. Spencer ) ( see pp. 95 and 96 ) .
* Slides in my own Collection are indicated by the letter S befo'e the number ; those in the Williamson Collection are marked C.N. ( Cabinet number ) as heretofore .
Slides from other Collections are specially referred to .
Fig. 2 .
fladial section of strobilus .
x. , wood of axis ; inner cortex ; the middle cortex only shows fragments of leaf-trace bundles , and an intruding Stigmarian rootlet ; o.c. , outer cortex ; sporangia , containing spores ; sph .
, bases of sporophylls ; sph ' .
, their laminae .
X 9 .
From a slide in Mr. J. Spencer 's Collection ( see pp. 95 and 90 ) .
PLATE 13 .
Fig. 3 , Spenceritesmajusculus ; figs. 4 to 8b , S. insignia .
Fig. 3 .
S. majusculus .
Tangential section of strobilus .
The section is slightly oblique , passing through the cortex of the axis above , and through the sporophyll-pedicels , below .
On either side the laminae are shown , best preserved on the left hand , ax .
, axis with bases of sporophylls ; sph .
, pedicels of sporophylls ; sph ' .
, their laminae .
Note the regular alternate verticils , sm .
, remains of sporangia , containing spores ; a. , insertion of a sporangium .
X 6 .
From a slide in Mr. J. Spencer 's Collection ( see p. 96 ) .
For other figures of S. majusculus see Plate 15 .
Fig. 4 .
S. insignis .
Transverse section of a strobilus .
wood of axis , enclosing a thick-walled pith ; i.c. , inner cortex ; middle cortex penetrated by Stigmarian rootlets ; o.c. , outer cortex , with " Dictyoxylon " structure ; the leaf-trace bundles are seen both here and in the inner cortex : sph .
, sporophylls , imperfectly preserved : sm .
, sporangia , containing the winged spores ; s.r. , Stigmarian rootlet .
X 10 .
From a slide by Mr. J. Lomax in the Wild Collection ( No. 159 ) , Manchester Museum .
Other sections of the same cone are in the Williamson* and Hick Collections , and in my own ( see pp. 86-90 ) .
Fig. 5 .
Transverse section ( from the base of a strobilus ) of the steal and inner cortex .
The large central mass , x. , is the wood ; p.h. , phloem-zone , somewhat crushed ; i.c. , inner cortex .
X 50 .
S. , 4 ( from Mr. J. Spencer ) .
Other sections of the same cone are in the Williamson !
and Cash Collections ( see p. 87 ) .
Fig. 6 .
Part of a transverse section from a peduncle , to show bract , e. , epidermis ; c. , outer cortex , the external layers of which are very thick-walled ; l.t. , leaf-trace bundle , passing out to bract .
; bract .
C.N. , 419g ( from Mr. J. Spencer ) .
X 45 ( see p. 86 ) .
Fig. 7 .
Tangential section through the cortex of a peduncle to show the arrangement of the leaf-trace bundles , which appear to form a flat spiral with a * C.N. 1922f , ter .
t C.N. 624 , 624a and b 625 .
OF FOSSIL PLANTS FROM THE PALAEOZOIC ROCKS .
small divergence ; slightly diagrammatic ; l.t. , leaf-trace bundles .
In many of them the group of tracheae can he seen , and also the bundle-sheath ; b.r. , base of a bract .
X 18 .
C.N. , 419d ( from Mr. J. Spencer ) ( see p. 86 ) .
Fig. 8a .
Tracheae from the extreme outer edge of the wood , seen in radial section .
px .
, px .
, small spiral tracheae of the protoxylem , somewhat disorganized .
The larger element to the right ( .
, towards the interior ) is also partly spiral .
Fig. 8b .
From the same section , showing a spiral trachea imbedded in the middle of the pith ; p. , elongated pith-cells .
Both figures X 165 .
C.N. , 41 9e ( from Mr. J. Lomax ) ( see p. 87 ) .
PLATE 14 .
Spencerites Fig. 9 .
Part of a radial section of a peduncle , to show the middle cortex , sh .
, sheath of elongated cells surrounding a leaf-trace bundle ; l.c. , lacunar middle cortex , consisting of irregular interwoven trabeculae .
X 70 .
C.N. , 419e ( from Mr. J. Lomax ) ( see p. 88 ) .
Fig. 10 .
Part of tangential section of an axis to show a leaf-trace bundle passing through the outer cortex , x. , xylem of bundle ; sh .
, bundle-sheath .
The larger surrounding cells are cortical .
X 165 .
C.N. , 624d ( from Mr. J. Lomax ) ( see p. 89 ) .
Fig. 11 .
Part of the radial section of a strobilus , figured as a whole by Williamson , " Organization , " Part XIX .
, Plate 7 , fig. 50 .
The sporangium shown here is the lowest on the left , c. , cortex of axis .
Two sporophylls ( sph .
) are shown , the lower incomplete .
Each contains a vascular bundle ; sm .
, sporangia ; the lower is shown complete and is filled with winged spores ; a. , point of attachment of the sporangium to the distal part of the sporophyll .
The rest of the sporangial wall is perfectly free .
X 45 .
C.N. , 624b ( from Mr. J. Spencer ) ( see p. 89 ) .
Fig. 12 .
Detached sporophyll , seen in radial section .
In the tissue of the large lamina , the vascular bundle , v.h. , is seen at two places , sm .
, base of the sporangium , inserted on the upper surface of the lamina at ; s.t. , torn fragment of the pedicel , bent upwards .
Compare Williamson 's figure , in " Organization , " Part XIX , , Plate 7 , fig. 50 .
The sporophyll lies close to the cone to which it belongs .
X about 50 .
From a slide in the Cash Collection ( LepidodendronSpenceri , II .
) by Mr. J. Spencer .
The section is from the cone shown in Williamson 's figure above cited ( see p. 90 ) .
YOL .
CLXXXIX.\#151 ; B. P Fig. 13 .
Part of transverse section of a strobilus to show sporophyll and sporangiums ax .
, outer limit of the cortex of the axis ; sporophyll , shown both in its proximal and distal part ; s*m .
, sporangium , containing winged spores ; a. , attachment of sporangium to distal end , sph !
, of sporophyll .
X 45 .
C.N. G26 ( from Mr. J. Binns ) ( see p. 90 ) .
Fig. 14a .
A single spore , seen in section , w.w. , the wing ; one of the radiating ridges , marking the line of junction with the sister-spores ; cellular or vacuolated body in the interior of the spore .
X 265 ( see pp. 91 and 92 ) .
Fig. 14b .
A tetrad of spores seen in section , showing the position of the wings .
As the arrangement is tetrahedral , only three spores are seen in one plane .
X 150 .
Both Figs , from C.N. 624b ( see p. 91 ) .
PLATE 15 .
Fig. 15 .
Spencerites insignis .
Figs. 16-19 .
majusculns .
Fig. 15 .
S. insignis .
Abortive sporangium .
part of sporophyll to which sporangium is attached ; sm.w .
, sporangial wall .
The interior is occupied by a dark , contracted mass , showing some traces of cellular structure .
X 110 .
C.N. 626 ( see p. 93 ) .
Fig. 16 .
S. majusculus .
Sporophyll in radial section .
This is from the left hand side of the section shown entire in Plate 12 , fig. 2 .
ax .
, external tissue , of axis ; sph .
, pedicel of sporophyll ; its lamina ; v.h. , vascular bundle ; sm .
, sporangium ( containing spores ) inserted on the sporophyll at a. X about 40 ( see p. 96 ) .
Fig. 17 .
Part of a transverse section of the strobilus , showing steal and inner cortex .
px .
, px .
, protoxylem-groups , of which there are about thirty in all ; all the tissue to the inside is wood ; remains of phloem ; leaf-trace bundles passing through inner cortex ; sh .
, sheaths surrounding the bundles , where they traverse the decayed middle cortex .
X about 40 .
C.N. 624c ( from Mr. J. Spencer ) .
This section is practically identical with that shown in Plate 12 , fig. 1 ( see p. 95 ) .
Fig. 18 .
Part of sporangial wall , seen in surface view .
X about 70 .
C.N. 624c ( see p. 97 ) .
Fig. 19 .
A. Part of sporangial wall , seen in section .
X 150 .
C.N. 624g .
B. Spore seen from the side .
w. , wing .
X 150 .
C.N. 624g .
C. Spore seen in oblique section , wing .
X 150 .
C.N. 624c .
D. Tetrad in side view ; only two spores visible .
X 150 .
C.N. 624c .
E. Tetrad in end view , showing all four spores .
X 150 .
C.N. 624c .
pH .
Scott .
Phil. Trans. B , Vol. 189 , 1897 D. H. Scott .
Vol. 189 , 1897 , W sm Fig. 13 .
W. C. Worsdell and G. T. Gwilliam , del .
Spencerites insignis .
Fig. 15 .
Spencerites insignis .
Fig. 16\#151 ; 19 .
S. majusculus .
1

