Mr. Davies 's paper , entitled " Geometrical Researches concerning Terrestrial Magnetism , " was resumed and concluded .
The object of this paper is to exhibit methods of conducting the mathematical inquiries which are applicable to the magnetism of the earth , by the aid of the coordinate geometry of three dimensions .
When a point on the surface of the earth is given by means of its geographical coordinates , we can also refer it to any rectilinear coordinates that may be found convenient , and the transformations of the expressions can be made by known and familiar methods .
Also , since at a given point the needle is deflected a measured quantity from the meridian plane , estimated on a tangent plane to the earth at the given point , and is also depressed another measured quantity below the same plane at that given point , its position is fixed by means of these measures .
It will hence become capable of reference also to the same rectilinear coordinates as those into which the geo ?
graphical coordinates were transformed .
The equation of the line , into which the dipping-needle disposes itself , becomes , therefore , ca ?
pable of expression in terms of the measured quantities above referred to 3 viz. , the latitude , longitude , dip , and variation .
The method of obtaining the constants which enter into the " equations of the nee ?
dle " as referred to the equator , a given meridian , and the meridian at right angles to it , are then detailed at length by the author 3 and these equations are calculated for six different places : Port Bowen , Boat Island , Chamisso Island , Valparaiso , Paris , and Paramatta .
With a view to bring the hypothesis of the duality of the centres of magnetic force to a test , the author proceeds to reason , that as a free needle subjected to the action of only two poles , will always dispose it ?
self in the plane which passes through those poles and the centre of motion of the needle , the needle prolonged will always intersect the magnetic axis , or line which passes through the two poles .
But when four straight lines are given in space , a fifth line ( or rather two lines ) can be so drawn as to intersect them all .
If , therefore , we have the equations of four dipping-needles calculated from correct observations , we ought to be able to assign the equations of the two lines which rest upon them 3 one or other of which , in such case , will be the magnetic axis itself .
This line ought to intersect every other needle 5 and hence the constants in its equations and the constants in the equations of any fifth needle ought to fulfil the algebraical test of intersection .
The author has calculated the equations of the magnetic axis for the needles at Chamisso , Valparaiso , Paramatta , and Port Bowen , and made a comparison of it with the Paris needle .
Instead of intersecting , the least distance between the said axis and needle is more than one 6th of the terrestrial radius ; and hence , could the observations themselves be depended on , as being free from instrumental error and from local disturbances , the question of the duality of the centres of force would be at once settled in the negative 3 but , as the opinions of those philosophers who are best acquainted with the dipping-needle are decidedly that the dipping-needle is not yet in such a condition as to induce implicit confidence in its indications , and as , moreover , the influence of geological and meteorological sources of disturbance are yet so far unappreciated as to enable us to correct the observations for them , the author hesitates to draw any positive conclusion from the results he has obtained .
However , the results thus obtained , being the direct and legitimate deductive consequences of the observations , it is of course impossible by any other course of investigations which proceeds from the same data , to draw a conclusion more to be depended on than this .
The process he considers to be mathematically correct , as well as complete , and practicable ; the question , as far as this test is concerned , must remain open till satisfactory data can be obtained : and he proposes at the earliest period to resume the numerical dis ?
cussion of such observations as he may be able to procure .
Mr. Davies remarks , that from the great labour of the calculations , he has been led to attempt a more brief method of examination by means of carefully executed geometrical constructions ; employing for that purpose the descriptive geometry , which has the advantage of bringing all the work to depend on the intersection of the hyperbola and straight line , situated upon the same plane .
The resulting magnetic axes of the few cases he has constructed , though very far from coinciding , are yet positive in the same general region of the figure ; and therefore the probability that their want of coincidence arises from erroneous and uncorrected observation is increased , and the impor ?
tance of a more extended and careful series of observations considerably augmented .
For the purpose of examining the general character of the magnetical phsenomena which ought to result from the hypothesis of the dualityof the poles , Mr. Davies proceeds to investigate the formulae which express those phsenomena .
These are , the magnetic equator , ?
the points at which the needle should become vertical , ?
the lines of equal dip , ?
the Halleyan lines , or lines of equal variation , ?
the isodynamic lines of Hansten , ?
and the points at which the magnetic intensity , com ?
pared with the points immediately contiguous in all directions , is a maximum , or in other words , where the isodynamic lines are reduced to points .
The first two of these only , are treated in the present paper ; the remaining ones will be the subject of a future memoir shortly to be submitted to the Society .
The mathematical processes themselves scarcely admit of verbal description ; but the results of the investigation are briefly these .
When the centres of force are situated within the sphere , there will be one only , or some even number ofcontinuous lines on the surface of the earth , at any point of which the needle will be horizontal , according as the poles be of equal or unequal intensities .
Whether the magnetic equator be determined with sufficient accuracy to assure us that there is but one such line , is a matter of considerable doubt ; but if it should be admitted that it is , it offers a strong confirmation of the strict analogy between the terrestrial and all other magnets with two poles , and thence an increasing confidence in all the other analogies conceived to exist between them .
The points at which the needle is vertical are given by means of two equations , one of the fifth and the other of the second degree , and hence altogether there are ten such points theoretically possible .
How many of these may be simultaneously real the equations do not , in their literal form , seem capable of determining ; but at all events they will , in all cases , be an even number , either 0 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , or 10 .
One having been determined , one other at least must exist in the actual circumstances of the terrestrial two-poled magnet .
How many soever such simultaneous points there may be , they must all lie in the same plane ; and hence , if the second point which must exist could be determined , then the great circle in the plane of which the axis of the magnet itself is situated would be determined 5 and thus another test would be afforded of the truth or error of the hypothesis itself .
Mr. Davies suggests that as this plane will be symmetrical with respect to the phenomenon taking place on each side of it , its position might be tentatively assigned from a series of observations of those phaeno ?
mena , especially of the dip and intensity ; the variation being for obvious geometrical reasons excluded .
Though the resulting formula does not , in its literal form , appear to be capable of decomposition into factors , yet from some considerations , chiefly analogical , Mr. Davies is led to hazard the conjecture that it is capable of such decomposition ; but as this is uncertain , he builds no consequences upon it , but leaves those consequences which would flow from it , open till it shall be discovered whether they would be justified by the conjecture itself being proved to be correct .

