I. " O nt Boric Ethide .
" By EDWARD FRtANKLAND , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and B. DUPPA , Esq. Commulnicated by Dr. FRANKLAND .
Rleceived July 7 , 1860 .
When zincethyl in excess is brought into contact with tribasic C 11 0 boracic ether , ( B C , 415 O ) , the temperature of the mixture gra041H-1,02 dually rises for about half an hour .
If it be now submitted to distillation , it beginis to boil at 940 C. , and between this temperature and 1400 a considerable quantity of a colourless liquid distils over .
The distillation then suddenly stops , the thermometer rises rapidly , and , to avoid secondary products of decomposition , the operation should now be interrupted .
The materials remaining in the retort solidify , on cooling , into a mass of large crystals , which are a compound of ethylate of zinc with zincethyl .
On rectification , the distillate began to boil at 70 ?
, but the thermometer rapidly rose to 95 ' ?
, at which temi)erature the last two-thirds of the liquid passed over and were received apart .
The product thus collected exhibited a conistant boiling-poiint oln redistillationi .
Submitted to analysis , it yielded results agreeing with the formula rC1 IHI This body , for which we propose the name horic ethide , is produced by the following reaction:2BJC4 ThO ?
n2 C4 1 =2B { C 4H +6 11C 02 LC4 115 02 C4 115 41 , i Boracic ether .
Zincethyl .
Boric ethide .
Ethylate of zinc .
The ethylate of zinc thus formed combines with zincethyl to form the crystalline compound above alluded to .
Boric ethide possesses the following properties:-It is a colourless mobile liquid of a pungent odour ; its vapour is very irritating to the mucous membrane , and provokes a copious flow of tears .
The specific gravity of boric ethide at 230 C. is *6961 ; it boils at 950 C. , and the results of several determniniations of its vapour-density give the number 3 4006 .
The calculated v-apour-density of boric ethide , volumetrically composed like terchloride of boron , is 3 3824 .
Boric ethide is insoluble in water , and is very slowly decomposed by prolonged conitact with it .
Iodilne has scarcely any action upon it , even at 1000 C. It floats upon conceintrated nitric acid for several minutes without change ; but suddenly a violent oxidation takes place , and crystals of boracic acid separate .
When boric ethide vapour comes in contact with the air it produces slight bluish-white fumes , which have a high temperatuire .
The liquid is spontaneously inflammrable in air , burning with a beautiful greeni and somewhat fuliginous flamne .
In contact with pure oxygen it explodes .
Placed in a flask and allowed to oxidize gradually , first in dry air and firnally in dry oxygen , it forms a colourless liquid , which boils at a higher temperatuire thbai boric ethide , but cannot be distilled under atmospheric pressure without partial decomposition .
In a stream of dr.y carbonic acid this product of oxidation evaporates without residue .
By distillation in vacuo it is obtained pure , and it then exhibits a composition expressed by the formula rc1IB( cI11 ?
2 LC'4 H The product of the oxidation of boric ethide is therefore the diethylate of a body which maybe convenientlyniamed boric dioxyethide , ( B { ?
The formation of diethylate of boric dioxyethide from boric ethide may be thus represented : rC4 i4i B &lt; C 111 + 04 = B ?
C411O0 LC4 115 5C4 15 02 Boric ethide .
Diethylate of boric dioxyethide .
Tbis compound dissolves instantly in water , and is resolved intco alcohol and a volatile white crystalline body , which may be sublimed without change , at a gentle heat , in a stream of carbonic acid , and then condenses in magnificent crystalline plates like -naphthaline .
The analytical results yielded by this body agree closely with the formula rc4 15 BA H02 BH{02 It is therefore obviously produced by the substitution of two atomiis of hydrogen for two of ethyl in diethylate of boric dioxyethide : B &lt; C411 11 1}02Brc4j 1135 02.BC4 H5 02 +2 } ?
-Bt 1-0t +2 84 0I5 } O LU4 11I5 02 11i02 ?
2C1 Dietbylate of boric Dihydrate of boric Alcohol .
dioxyethide .
dioxyethide .
Dihydrate of boric dioxyethide possesses an agreeable ethereal odour and a most intensely sweet taste .
Exposed to the air it evaporates slowly at ordinary temperatures , undergoing at the same time partial decomposition , and invariably leaving a slight residue of boracic acid .
Its vapour tastes intensely sweet .
It reddens litmus paper , although in other respects its acid qualities are very obscure .
It is very soluble in water , alcohol , and ether .
Exposed to a gentle heat it fuses , and at a higher temperature boils with partial decomposition .
We are at present engaged with the further study of these bodies , and with the corresponding reactions of zincethyl upon silicic , carbonic , and oxalic ethers .

