On the Method of determining , from the real Probabilities of Life , the Values of Contingent Reversions in which three Lives are involved in the Survivorship .
By William Morgan , Esq. F.R.S. Read Dec. 12 , 1799 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 22 .
] Mr. Morgan having already communicated to the Society the solutions of seventeen different problems in the doctrine of contingent reversions depending upon three lives , has been induced , from a wish to complete the subject , to investigate in the present paper seven more problems in which the same number of lives are concerned in the survivorship .
These , he tells us , include , as far as he can perceive , all the remaining cases involving those complicated contingencies .
In examining the investigation of these problems , it appears that the determination of the reversion in some of them depends in each year on the happening of twelve or thirteen different events .
These numerous contingencies being all expressed by separate fractions ( each of which is resolved into two or more different series ) renders the operations exceedingly intricate and laborious .
From an apprehension , it seems , of becoming tedious and diffusive in his demonstrations , the author has in general contented himself with merely giving the fractions denoting the contingencies on which the reversion depends , without specifying in words at length the nature of those contingencies .
He has , however , in these as in all the other problems he has investigated , given different demonstrations , both by solving each independent of any other problem , and by deriving the solution from those of two or more problems , which had been already investigated ; so that from the exact agreement in the results , proofs are deduced of the perfect accuracy of the demonstration , not only of the problem investigated , but also of those which are applied to the solution .
In all these problems , a contingency is involved , which having never been accurately determined .
had hitherto rendered even an approximation to the solution of them impossible .
This contingency is that of one life 's failing after another in a given time .
This appears to have been ascertained with sufficient accuracy to enable the author to surmount a difficulty in the solution of these problems , which he owns he had once considered as insuperable .
Having thus accomplished the investigation of every case in which he conceives it possible that the contingency may be varied between these lives , he conceives that he has now exhausted the subject ; and concludes his paper with observing , that those cases in which four lives are involved in the survivorship are not only too numerous and complicated to admit of solution , but that they occur so seldom in practice as to render the labour of such solution ( if it were practicable ) both useless and unnecessary .
4

