VI .
An Account of a Book entitled , Osteographia , or , the Anatomy of the Bones , By William Cheselden , Surgeon to her Majesty , F. R. S. Surgeon to St. Thomas 's Hospital , and Member of the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris .
By John Belchier , Surgeon , F. R. S. FO R the Frontispiece to the Book our Author has made choice of a Story very suitable to a Work of this Kind , which is a Description that Galen , in Lib. 1 .
Cap. 2 .
de Anatomicis Administrationibus , relates of a Robber that was killed on a Mountain by a Traveller , whom he attacked , and whose Body no one cared to have buried , but were rather glad that so wicked a Man should become a Prey to the Vultures .
Two Days after Galen went to see this Body , and found the Bones picked as clean as if prepared for the Instruction of Students .
This Opportunity he mentions as a Piece of good Fortune , because , in those Days , it was very rare to meet with a Skeleton , by what he observes to the young Physicians in the same Book , that he used to examine Bones which he found in Graves , and in the Ruins of Monuments ; and once he met with a Body , which , by the over-flowing of a River , was washed out of a Sepulchre that was slightly built on the Bank of the said River ; the Flesh being destroyed , the Bones were left entire .
He likewise takes notice , that there was a Skeleton in the Physick-School at Alexandria , which he thought would amply compensate the Trouble of any one to go on Purpose to study .
The Figure representing Galen contemplating the Skeleton , is taken from a Philosopher of Salvator Rosa .
At the Bottom of the Title-Page he has given a Print of a Camera Obscura , which he mentions in his Preface to have contrived and drawn all his Bones by , and without which Assistance ( notwithstanding he employed the greatest Artists in their way ) he found it impossible to give a true and perfect Representation of them , there being so much Difficulty to express the Outlines of Bones in their different Attitudes .
This occasioned my looking into Vesalius 's Book of Anatomy more carefully than I had done before , whose Figures have hitherto been esteemed the most beautiful of their Kind , and are performed in so exquisite a Taste , that they have usually been taken for Titian 's , and always considered as a Study for Painters .
Yet whoever will give himself the Trouble to measure his Bones with real ones , will find many egregious Errors , which would take up too much room here to particularize ; but upon the whole I find there is no kind of Proportion kept , and that his Bones in general are between one Third and Fourth Parts too short for their Breadth : And tho ' his three Skeletons have been so remarkably famous , that several Anatomical Writers have copied after them , yet when carefully examined , it will be very easy to discover many Imperfections in them , though , all together , they strike the Eye wonderfully .
This Camera he mentions not only as a great Help to him , by giving true Proportions and Outlines , but likewise for a more speedy dispatch ; doing more this way in one Day , than could possibly be done without in several .
It is a long square Tube set upon two Tressels ( as represented in the Print before his Book ) whose Inside is made black , to prevent the Reflection of Light ; towards that End which is nearest the Object , is a convex Glass placed in a sliding Frame , thro ' which the Rays passing from the Object , converge and meet in a Focus upon the Table-Glass placed near the other End , analogous to the Crystalline Humour and Retina in the Eye .
The Object here represented is the Trunk of a Skeleton fixed to a Painter 's Ezel , which being inverted , appears upright on the Table-Glass , on the rough Side of which the Artist delineates with a Pencil , which afterwards he traces off on Paper .
The Convex Glass placed in the sliding Frame being moved backward or forward , makes the Object bigger or less , keeping its due Proportions .
This Camera has several Advantages beyond the common one ; for in this , Objects as big as the Life may be taken , or reduced gradually to any Scale ; whereas the other only diminishes , and that in a very great Degree .
In this Work the gradual Increase of the Bones is described , even from the first Stages of Ossification , to that of an Adult , when every Bone is represented as large as the Life in different Attitudes ; as likewise most of the Bones sawed through the Middle , to show their internal Texture : And in order to show how how they are articulated to each other , there are several Plates wherein they are reduced to lesser Scales , and again reduced , to give a View of them all united together in Representations of six different Skeletons , where the Difference of the Growth of the Bones is very apparent , as likewise the different Shapes of the Male and Female Bones .
There are likewise several Plates of Bones prepared on Purpose to show the Ligaments which unite them together , as also the Cartilages at their Ends , besides a great Variety of most curious and remarkable diseased Bones .
And at the Front and Close of every Chapter , as likewise the Blank Pages , are Skeletons of the most remarkable Animals of their kind , which are not only very ornamental , but even very useful ; most of them describing the OEconomy of the different Species of Animals .
The Author in his Treatise gives a general Description of the whole Work , tho ' not so minutely as some might expect , he thinking it useless to give long Descriptions in a Work of this Kind , one View of such Prints showing more than the fullest Description can possibly do ; for which reason , in the several Chapters , the mechanical Contrivances of the Bones are rather treated of than their Shapes .
Each Book has a double Set of Prints , one before they are lettered , to show them in their full Perfection ; and the other with Letters , answering to their Descriptions .
The Advantage of a Set of Prints before they are lettered , will readily be perceived , when compared with the other : And how much these Figures excel any others of their kind , will appear at the first View , they being executed in so free and open a Stile , and expressed with so much Spirit , and ( what is very rare ) without the least kind of Exaggeration .
At the End of his Preface he takes notice , that when he began this Work , he proposed to go through the whole System of Anatomy , adorned with the Comparative , in three Volumes in this manner ; the farther Prosecution of which Design he has now entirely laid aside , it requiring so much Leisure , as renders him incapable of the Performance ; and the vast Expense attending such a Work ( besides other Inconveniences ) will , I doubt , prevent the Execution of it by any Body else , especially in so grand a manner , this being undoubtedly the most magnificent Work of the kind now extant .

