On a newly discovered Genus of Serpentiform Fishes .
By I. Harwood , M.D. F.L.S. Professor of Natural History in the Royal Institution of Great Britain .
Communicated by Daniel Moore , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 1 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 49 .
] Dr. Harwood begins this paper by observing , that in no department of natural history have descriptions been more unsatisfactory than such as relate to certain productions of the ocean , which , from the immeasurable depths which conceal them , and absence of the circumstances best adapted to their multiplication , very rarely present themselves to our notice .
It is to this rarity of opportunities for exact examination that we are to attribute the wonderful accounts of sea-monsters , which have from time to time appeared , such as the Kraken , the Sea Serpent , &amp;c. The author , after this preface , proceeds to describe a very extraordinary marine animal , taken by Captain Sawyer , of the ship Harmony , which was in pursuit of the bottle-nosed porpoise , in lat. 62 ?
N. , and 57 ?
W. long .
He observed a body floating on the water , which he at first took for an inflated seal-skin , but on a nearer approach it proved to be a living animal .
Exhausted by unavailing efforts to gorge a fish , seven inches in circumference , it allowed itself to be taken , and was preserved by Captain Sawyer in rum .
On a cursory view it might be taken for an extraordinary kind of seaserpent , and this idea would be even supported by a closer examination of parts of its structure .
It offers points of discrepancy , however , from the several genera of animals nearer allied to it , so important as to entitle it to a distinct place in classification , especially as regards the jaws , which , with the exception of the apparent want of interarticular bones , are truly serpentiform , and from the possession of an enormous elastic sac , which is seemingly a receptacle for air only .
The first of these characters seeming to the author least liable to vary , he suggests the term Ophiognathus as applicable to the genus .
He then proceeds to give a technical zoological description of the genus , and to state the points in which it essentially differs from the genera nearer allied to it , after which he gives a more special description .
Its body is of a uniform purplish black , except the filfimentous extrenmity of the tail , which is much lighter .
Its total length 4 feet fS0 6 inches .
Its enlarged and extremely elastic pharynx commences with the enormous sac , or air-vessel , which extends about 20 inches from the snout .
It is so delicate that it could not be fully inflatedl but when partially so , measured about 9 inches in circumference , below its union with the tail , and its greater diameter , including the slender body of the animal , 4 inches .
At about an inch from its termination it is perforated by the rectum , and its tenuity rendered that and the other intestines easily traced .
They appear to be sustained beneath the very imperfect ribs by a membranous expansion , not being affected in position by inflation of the sac .
The skin all over the body is particularly soft and shining .
The spiracula are large , irregularly oval , and unprovided with external rays , and their edges partially conceal on each side three tufted branchia , at about 5-I inches from the snout .
The fins are all very small .
In the pectoral ones is a peculiarity not found in other apodal genera , being chiefly composed of an adipose disc , which is terminated and nearly surrounded by a narrow radiated membrane , instead of the latter originating from the body immediately .
The tail , after the termination of the dorsal fin , becomes a slender tape-like filament , nearly 20 inches longer ; and above this point some minute filaments take their growth from it .
The anal fin commences where the sac terminates , and ends 14 inches from the end of the tail .
The most curious parts of the animal are , however , the head and jaws .
It has no tongue ; the teeth are disposed in a single row above and below .
The ossa palati are destitute of teeth , and the jaw-bones are so long , and their articulation so loose , as to be sus ?
ceptible of distention beyond any other animal , not excepting the rattle-snake ; and when fully distended they describe a large circle , and appear but the opening of an ample sac .
The author illustrates his description by three figures , and concludes by observing that the Ophiognathus is one of the most voracious of the inhabitants of the ocean .
Its entire form would indicate great swiftness of motion , performed doubtless by the same sinuous inflections in water , which excite our admiration in serpents on land .
In what manner its pouch is employed in its economy he does not attempt to determine , nor to decide whether it be capable of secreting the contained air , or whether water be allowed to enter it .

