III .
An Account of the Aurora Borealis that appeared Oct. 8 .
1726 .
In a Letter to the Publisher from the Reverend Dr. Langwith , Rector of Petworth in Suffex .
THE Northern Lights have been so common in all Places of late Years , that tho ' I have often seen them here , I did not think it worth while to write to you about them ; but those that appeared on Saturday the 8th of the lastMonth , were too remarkable to be passed over in Silence .
They began about Sun-set ; but I heard nothing of them till between 7 and 8 .
When I went out , I observed a Stream of Light almost due West , which was about seven or eight Degrees broad , and extended it self upwards about 35 or 40 Degrees .
I had not a free Prospect of the Western Horizon , and so cannot tell what its Appearance was below .
It was not perpendicular to the Horizon , but inclined a few Degrees towards the South .
This Stream was of a dusky Red towards the North , but pale on the other side , and seemed to have a faint Mixture of the Prismatick Colours in it .
At the same time there appeared a pale luminous Arch , whose Middle was nearly N.W. by N. The Altitude of its inner Edge was about 18 or 20 Degrees This Edge was very distinct and regular all above , but a little confused towards the Horizon , where it extended it self beyond the North-Point : How it terminated to the West , I cannot inform you .
From the upper Side of this Arch , which was waving , and ill defined , there shot up continually such Streams of Light as have often been seen and described , since the Great Meteor of March the 6th , 171 5/ 6 .
The Sky under this Arch looked exceeding dark , but was in reality clear ; for we cou 'd see the smallest Stars in it .
Nearly N. E. there was another Stream of pale-colour d Light , which was about 7 or 8 Degrees distant from the Horizon , and was about as many in Breadth : It s Height was various , and ill defined .
Towards the bottom of it , was an irregular black Cloud , which in some parts was near a Degree in breadth , in others hardly half so much : This Cloud was almost paral lel to the Horizon .
The Stream moved with a slow regular Motion towards the East .
In the S. E. was another Arch , like that in the N. W. by N. but not quite so high , or of so great an Extent .
Between this Arch and the North-Easterly Stream the Sky was of an odd pale coloured Light , with a mixture of Red in it .
From the South towards the West were gloomy in regular Clouds , which now and then sent out Flashes of Light .
About 8 , the North-Easterly Stream suddenly expanded it self every way : All its Parts began to be in a violent Commotion , and its Brightness increased to such a degree that I remember nothing like it in the former great Meteor of this Kind .
All above it was of a bright flame-colour ; but below , it was edged with the Prismatick Colours , which were full as strong as I have ever seen them in the brightest Rainbow : They were not indeed so distinct ; for , tho ' I observed them as exactly as the strange variety of their Motion wou 'd permit , I cou 'd only distinguish the Red , the Yellow , and a dusky bluish-Green .
This surprising Sight did not last above a minute or two ; but when the Colours vanished here , they began to appear in the North-Westerly Arch , which was now become a portion of a larger Circle than before , and was not elevated so high above the Horizon .
The Colours extended themselves from the North towards the West for about 15 or 20 Degrees ; and tho ' they were not so bright as in the other Place , yet they were more steady , and so as easily observed .
Their Order was the same as before , the Red lowermost , and so on : Their Duration much longer .
In the mean time the Streaming Lights began to appear in all parts of the Heavens , and to form a Corona and Canopy , which were in all respects like those of the great Meteor of 171 5/ 6 .
Instead therefore of troubling you with a long detail of the Particulars of these , I shall refer you to the curious descriptions of the other by the Astronomer-Royal , and my late worthy Friend Mr. Cotes .
I shall only take notice that the Colours of the Corona were neither so strong nor so lasting as those before described , and that the Top of the Canopy was sometimes over-spread with a deep sullen Red .
The Streams continued their direction upward towards a point of concourse for a long time after , and formed by fits imperfect Circles of pale Light about it .
This Point , however , was not fixed ; for at first it seemed to be in , or very near , our Zenith ; but when I observed it some time after , it lay between the Stars in Andromeda 's Right-hand , and those at the end of her Chain .
The same Observation was made by a Curious Gentleman of this place , who also informed me that there was another luminous Arch which past quite thro ' the Pole Star : It 's continuance was short , and I had not the good fortune to see it my self .
These Appearances held on in some degree till about 11 , when the Air began to grow misty , and so put an end to any farther Observations .
I cannot send you the exact Point of the Wind : It was so calm below , that I cou 'd not be certain which way it stood ; but some that were making their Observations from a high open Place , assured me , that it was North-westerly , as it was in the Afternoon before , and the Morning after .
The Mercury was up at 30 : The Weather mild and temperate .
I am afraid this Letter is already tedious , and yet I shall venture to lengthen it with the following Observations .
1 .
That It plainly appears from the Position of the Arches , that they cou 'd not owe their Figures to the Sun : They seem to have been partly Optical , and partly to have depended upon the different Heights of the luminous Vapours ; but for want of sufficient luminous it will be no easy matter to determine how far each of these Causes concurred .
2 .
The Prismatic Colours , wherever they appeared , seem to have been caus 'd by the Sun .
3 .
None of the Streams , as far as I could observe , proceeded directly from the Horizon .
They were nearest it towards the North , where there were some weak irregular Lights in the Lights parts of the Arch before described .
S2 4 .
I 4 .
I find by some of my Papers that during the Meteor of 171 5/ 6 .
the Mercury stood at 30.2 ; so that the two Meteors agree , as in many other particulars , so in the following , viz. That the Air was calm , The Wind North-westerly and the Mercury high .
I shall only add , that luminous Vapours in the Air are much more common than they are generally taken to be ; for the Nights are very often lighter when the Sky is over-cast , than in the brightest Star-light , tho ' the Crepusculum be quite gone off and there be no Moon .
I am , &amp;c. Petworth , Nov. 16 .
1726 .
B. Langwith .

