Philos. ~ Fig. 1 .
p. 447 .
eb c~ b ~ b ~ ~ : ~b ~ b ~ ~ ab c Fig. d e y aa Fig. 3 .
p. 448 .
ee y e Z e x ~ .
Trans. No. 483 .
TAB. I. e d c ~ a g f e d ~ b a g f b Fig. 2 .
p. 447 .
b c ad II .
A Letter from Mr. John Freke F. R. S. Surgeon to St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , to the President of the Royal Society , enclosing a Paper of the late Rev. Mr. Creed , concerning a Machine to write down Extempore Voluntaries , or other Pieces of Music .
SIR , I THINK the enclosed Paper is the Effect of great Ingenuity and much Thought ; and as the Subject-Matter of it may tend to give great Improvement and Pleasure to many , not only in our own Country , but every-where , I hope my presenting it may not be thought improper that it may thereby be printed and published to the World .
Read March 12 .
1746.7 .
It was invented and written by Mr. Creed , a Clergyman , who was esteemed , by those who knew him , to be a Man well acquainted with all kinds of mathematical Knowledge .
It was sent me by a Gentleman of very distinguished Merit and Worth ; if therefore from hence this Paper shall be thought proper to be published in the Philosophical Transactions .
It will prevent its being lost to Mankind .
I am , SIR , Your very humble and obliged Servant , John Freke .
A Demonstration of the Possibility of making a Machine that shall write Extempore Voluntaries , or other Pieces of Music , as fast as any Master shall be able to play them upon an Organ , Harpsichord , &amp;c. and that in a Character more natural and intelligible , and more expressive of all the Varieties those Instruments are capable of exhibiting , than the Character now in Use .
Maxim I. ALL the Varieties those Instruments afford fall under these three Heads : First , The various Durations of Sounds , commonly called Minims , Crotchets , &amp;c. Secondly , The various Durations of Silence , commonly called Rests .
Thirdly , The various Degrees of Acuteness or Gravity in musical Sounds , as A re , B mi , &amp;c. Maxim II .
Strait Lines , whose Lengths are geometrically proportioned to the various Durations of musical Sounds , will naturally and intelligibly represent those Durations .
Ex. gr. =~ =~ =~ =~ =~ The first Line ( being 2 Inches ) represents a Semibreve .
The second is 1 Inch , and denotes a Minim .
The third is half an Inch , and signifies a Crotchet .
The fourth is a Quarter , and answers to a Quaver .
The fifth is an Eighth , and stands for a Semiquaver .
Maxim III .
The Quantity of the blank Intervals , or Discontinuity of the Lines , will exactly represent the Duration of Silence or Rests .
Ex. gr. =~~~ =~~~ ~ .
~~ Maxim IV .
The different Degrees of musical Sounds , as Ga~ , A re , B mi , &amp;c. may be represented by the different Situations of those black Lines upon the red ones or saint ones .
Ex. gr. see TA B. I. Fig. 1 .
Problem .
To make a Machine to write Music in the aforesaid Character as fast as it can be played upon the Organ or Harpsichord , to which the Machine is fixed .
Postulatum .
That a Cylinder may be made by the Application of a circulating , not a vibrating , Pendulum , to move equally upon its Axis the Quantity of 1 Inch in a Second of Time , which is about the Duration of a Minim in Allegro 's ; Suppose the Cylinder a ( see Fig. 2 .
) to be such , and to move under the Keys of an Organ , as b , c , d , and nail Points under the Heads of the Keys , it is manifest , that if an Organist play a Minim upon c , that is , if he press down c for the Space of a Second , the Nail will make a Scratch upon the Cylinder of 1 Inch in Length , which is my Mark for a Minim .
Again , if he rest a Crotchet , that is , if he cease playing for the Space of half a Second , the Cylinder will have moved under the Nails half an Inch without any Scratch ; but if the Organist next presses down d for the Space of half a Second , the Nail under d will make a Scratch upon the Cylinder half an Inch long , which is my Mark for a Crotchet .
It will likewise be differently situated from the Scratch that was made by c , and consequently distinguished from it as much as the Notes now in Use are from one another by their different Situation in the Lines .
( Vide Fig. 1 .
) These three Instances include all that can be performed upon an Organ , ~c .
( Maxim I. ) Therefore it is already demonstrated , that whatever is played upon the Organ during one Revolution of the Cylinder a ( Fig. 2 .
) will be inscribed upon it in intelligible Characters.-I proceed to show how this Operation may be continued for a long time .
In Fig. 3 .
aa , b , c , d , are the same as in Fig. 2 .
Let x be a long Scroll of Paper wound upon such a Cylinder as z. Let eeee be the same Scroll brought over the Cylinder a a , to be wound upon the Cylinder y y , as fast as the Motion of aa ( which is determined by a Pendulum ) will permit .
It is manifest , that whatever is played upon the Organ during the winding up of yy will be written on the Scroll by the Pencils b , c , d , ~c .
All the Graces in Music being only a swist Succession of Sounds of minute Duration will be expressed by the Pencils by small Hatches geometrically proportioned to those Durations .
Ex. gr. A single Beat A double Beat A Shake A Turn A single Backfall A double Backfall A Shake and Turn If a Line commence exactly over or under the Termination of another , it is an Indication of a Slur ; as ~ So a small Interval indicates the contrary ; as ~ Flat or sharp Notes are implied by their Situation on the red Lines ; the natural Notes being always drawn between them , viz. in the Spaces .
( Vide Fig. 1 .
) The Scroll may be prepared before-hand with red Lines to fall under their respective Pencils .
It is the surest Way to rule them after ; tho ' it is feasible or possible to contrive that they may be ruled the same Instant the Music is writing .
The Places of the Bars may be noted by two supernumerary Pencils , with a Communication to the Hand or Foot of a Person beating Time .
Grave Music from brisk , slow from fast , etc. will be better distinguished by this Machine , than in the ordinary Way by the Words Adagio , Allegro , Grave , Presto , &amp;c. for , by these Words , we only know in general this must be slow or fast , but not to what Degree , that being left to the Imagination of the Performer ; but here I know exactly how many Notes must be played in a Second of Time ; viz. as many as are contained in 1 Inch of the Scroll per ` Postulatum P. 447 .
Lattly , Whereas , in the ordinary Way of writing Music , you have either no Character for Graces , or such as do not denote the Time and Manner of their Performance , here you have the minutcst Particles of Sound that compose the most transient Graces mathematically delineated .
N. B. Tho ' , to facilitate the Demonstration , I suppose the Pencils to be fixed under the Heads of the Keys , and consequently to require a very broad Scroll to pass under them ; yet I intend the Pencils a more commodious Situation , viz. the Motion of the Keys to be communicated by small Rods to them ( which I know better how to do than to describe , the Scheme would be so perplexed ) .
The Pencils are to be made of Steel , and ranged in close Order like the Teeth of a small Comb , so that a very narrow Scroll will do .
I can prepare the Paper to receive a very black Impression from the Pencils at so cheap a Rate , that , at the Expense of 6 d. in Paper , I can take in Writing all the Music that the swiftest Hand shall be able to play in an Hour .

