d de Fig:7 .
G Fig:14 .
a bbF c dH D bB hf Fig:8 .
Fig:9 .
o f E gI Fig:11 .
Fig:10 .
hg Fig:13 .
DC KH Fig:12 .
G EB VI .
Anatomical Observations in the Heads of Fowl made at several times .
By the late Allen Moulen , M. D. S.R.S. Read before the Royal Society , Feb. 1 .
1687/ 8 .
1 .
IN the Heads of all the Fowl that I had an opportunity to examine , I constantly found only one Aquaeductus , or Passage from the Ears into the Palate ; whereas in Men , Quadrupedes , and some Amphibious Fish , there are always two , one on each side below the entrance of the Nostrils into the Palate , and opening towards the Nostrils , for the more convenient reception of Air , as is supposed .
This Passage in Fowl is exactly in the middle of the Palate , below the entrance of the Nostrils into it : It is a membranous Tube , capable of admitting a Ravens , if not a Goose Quill in larger Fowl , such as Turkeys , Geese , &amp;c. and reaches backward as far as the Communication from Ear to Ear , and hence it comes to serve both ; whereas there is a necessity of two in those Animals , whose Ears do not communicate .
2 .
I have purposely examined the Heads of all the Species of Fowl I could procure , and constantly found a hollow space between the two Tables between the Os Cuneiforme reaching from Ear to Ear , and as far forward as the aforesaid common Aquaeductus , or rather Ductus Aereus , the contrivance of it seeming more to favour this than the former use .
This Cavity in all Fowl ( as far as I have observed ) reaches above the Labyrinthus on each side , so that whatever impulse is made on the Tympanum on the one side , may not only be very readily communicated by means of the internal Air to the Labyrinthus of the same , but also to that of the opposite side .
Hence probably proceeds the quickness of Hearing and Vigilance of Fowl , notwithstanding their wanting a Cochlea , the defect of which seems to be by this Structure more than supplied , no other Creatures that we know of having any thing of it .
It is not improbable that the opposite Ear to a Sound is altogether as much affected by it as that next it , if not more .
There are several La. minulae and Pillars of hard Bone between the two Tables in these Cavities , designed , as may be supposed , partly for their Maintenance at a convenient distance , and partly for breaking of the Air , so as to hinder Echoes choes and confused representations of Objects .
In confirmation of which last Reason Sir John Hoskins did ingeniously observe , that Pillars in Churches very much prevented Echoes : And for the same reason these might also hinder them in the Heads of this particular Structure .
3 .
In the Heads of Woodcocks , besides the passages now described , I found one on each side the Bone , making the Orbit of the Eye proceeding from the Ear , and reaching forward towards the setting on of the Beak , near which they joined in one , and turned under the Skull in a small passage leading to the Cavity , by which the Ears communicate , and which is above described , into which it enters .
These passages are also in the Heads of Snites ; and moreover , one over the Sinus Longitudinalis , and another over the Sinus Lateralis of the Brain .
Note , that in the killing of Snites and smaller Birds , if care be not taken that the Head be not bruised , these passages cannot be discovered for Blood extravasated in them .
Note also , that the Laminulae and bony Pillars are every where to be observed where there is a passage , excepting under the Skull , in the passage from the setting of the Bill to the first passage described .
4 .
In the Heads of Parrots and Paroquets , besides the first described passage , I observed between the two Tables every where Cells opening into others , and those into others , so that there was not any part scarcely of the Skull that was not taken up with them .
And this did not only appear by pouring into one Ear freed from its Drum , the other also being removed , a Tincture of Cochinel , and then blowing of it into all these Cells , so that no part was free from Tincture , but it appeared also to the naked Eye , notwithstanding that sometimes it was difficult to trace the Communications of them by reason of numerousness of the Laminulae and Pillars aforesaid .
5 .
In Singing Birds the Sructure of these passages is like that of the Parrot and Paroquett , only that the Pillars and Laminulae are less than they should seem to be in proportion to the Heads .
From whence it is probable , that these Birds are by this Structure enabled to distinguish Sounds and Notes , and also imitate them better , having a more musical Ear .
6 .
In the Heads of Pullets , Geese and Ducks I found only the first described passage distinctly , but in Pluvers , Bustards , and some other , I found another that went over the Sinus Lateralis of the Brain from Ear to Ear .
This seems to be designed to make them more watchful than Domestic Fowl , or yet those that live much on the Water , because they are liable to a great many Dangers that the others are exempt from .
Note , that there are for the most part great varieties in the Structures of all Fowls Heads .
7 .
In the Ears of all the Fowl that I could examine , I never found any more than one Bone and a Cartilage , making a Joint with it that was easily moveable .
The Cartilage had generally an Epiphise or two , one on each side , which were very flexible , as it self was .
The Bone was small and very hard , having at the end of it a broad Plate of the same Substance very thin , upon which it rested as on its Basis .
I got that of a Pullets Ear , represented in Fig. 4 .
where a is the main Cartilage , and bb the two Epiphyses , c the small Bone , and d the Basis or broad end of it .
Note , that in the Figure , part of the Drum sticking to it is represented together with the Cartilages .
8 .
I observed three pair of Nerves in all the broad bill 'd Birds that I could meet with , and in all such as feel for their Food out of their sight , as Snites , Woodcocks , Curlews , Geese , Ducks , Teale , Widgeon , &amp;c. These Nerves are very large , equalling almost the Optic Nervs in thickness ; they begin a little more forward than the Auditory Nerve from a little Protuberance which seems to be made for them : One of them goes over the Optic Nerve in the Orbit of the Eye , the other two go under the Eye .
Two are distributed nigh the end of the upper Bill , and are there very much expanded , passing through the Bone into the Membrane , lineing the Roof of the Mouth .
The third Pair is distributed near the end of the lower Bill , and subdivided like the former .
Note , that Birds that pick their Food where they can see it have not these Nerves , and that the Pair of Nerves belonging to the upper Bill is considerably smaller in proportion to the Fowls than those observed above ; whence it is probable that these Nerves were designed for some great use , both on the account of their number and their largeness ; and that the use to be assigned to them must be to enable them to distinguish ( whether by tasting or feeling I will not now distinguish ) their Food , there being a necessity of a more exquisite Sense in these Fowl , than in any other .
Fig. 15 .
represents these in a Ducks Head , where aa expresses the Edge of the Cranium , which was in part removed for the more clear view of these Nerves , bb are the Cells about the Ear between the two Tables above described , cc the Brain laid bare with its Blood-Vessels , ddd the three Nerves on one side , e the Optic Nerve , fff the Skin and part of the Bone removed to bring the Nerve in view , gg the two Nerves expanded near the end of the upper Bill , hh that in the lower .
9 .
All the Eyes of Fowl and of Fish that I have examined were more or less cartilaginous ; for the Sclerotis is a Cartilago sui generis , especially near the Cornea in all these Animals .
And in the larger sorts of both I remembred to have found the whole Sclerotis such a kind of a Cartilage .
10 .
In the Eyes of Fish I observed that the Processus Ciliaris is not fastned to the joining of the Cornea &amp; Sclerotis , as in all other Animals that I dissected , so as to hinder the watery Humour to go any further backward .
For I constantly observed that the Humor Ciqueus may move a good way backward in some , and in others almost as far as the Optic Nerve .
I shall at another time make some Remarks on this .
11 .
I have in as many Fish as I could conveniently examine carefully , found a Membrane which covered the Tunica Cornea , so as not to let any Water come to it .
This answers the Membrana Nictitans in Fowl , and reaches on all sides to the Cutis of the Fish to which it is fastned ; this is transparent , and pretty thin , and so is also the Cornea , if compared to that of the Quadrupeds .
12 .
I have frequently observed in smaller Fowl , that the Membrane of the Drum was double ; for I have by gently pulling away the Membrane lining the Tube of the Ear , I observed at the bottom of it a transparent Membrane , which at first I took to be the Membrane of the Drum , but upon Examination I found that the Membrane of the Drum was still entire and in its proper place .
I have sometimes observed this in larger Fowl , in a Seal , and in some other Animals , and am apt to think from a case mentioned in Du Verneyes Book of the Ear , that it is so in Men ; and if so , it is likely it may be so in most , if not in all Animals .
The Observation was as follows ; A Person that was deaf for some time died , whose Ears Mr. Du Verneye examined , in order to find out the cause of his Deafness , which he found to be a thick Membrane growing in the Ear before the Drum , which hindred the Impulses in the Air to be communicated to it .
Now I take it to be more likely that the Membrane should be double , and that the outward was preternaturally incrassated , then that a Membrane should grow in a place where the sides do not touch .

