V. Part of a Letter from Mr Anthony van Leuwenhoek , F. R. S. giving his Observations on the late Storm .
Delft , Jan. 8 .
1704 .
N. S. I Affirmed in my Letter of the 3rd of November last past , that Water may be so dashed and beaten against the Banks and Dikes by a strong Wind , and divided into such small Particles , as to be carried far up into the Land .
Upon the 8th of December , ~ .
N.S. We had a dreadful Storm from the South West , insomuch , that the Water mingled with small partsof Chalk and Stone , was so dashed against the Glass windows , that many of them were darkned therewith , and the lower Windows of my House , which are made of very fine Glass , and always kept well scower 'd , and were not opened till 8a Clock that Morning , not withstanding that they look to the North East , and consequently stood from the Wind ; and moreover , were guarded from the Rain by a kind of Shelf or Penthouse over them ; were yet so covered with the Particles of the Water which the Whirl-wind cast against them , that in less than half an hour they were deprived of most of their transparency , and , forasmuch as these Particles of Water were not quite exhaled .
I concluded that it must be Sea water , which the said Storm had not only ~ against our Windows~ but spread also over the whole Country .
That I might be satisfied herein , I blow 'd two small Glaffes , such as I thought most proper to make my Observations with , concerning the Particles of Water that adhered to my Windows .
Bbbbbbbbb~ Pres~ Pressing these Glasses gently against my Windows , that were covered with the supposed Particles of Sea water , my Glasses were tinged with a few of the said Particles .
These Glasses , with the Water I had thus collected on them , I placed at about half a Foot distance from the Candle , I viewed them by my Microscope , reck'ning , that by the warmth of the Candle and my Face together , the Particles of the said Water would be put into such a motion , that they would exhale for the most part , and the Salts that were in 'em would be expos~d naked to the sight , and so it happened ; for in a little timea great many Salt Particles did , as it were , come out of the Water , having the Figure of our common Salt , but very small , because the Water was little , from whence those small Particles proceeded ; and where the Water had lain very thin upon the Glass , there were indeed a great number of Salt Particles , but so exceeding fine , that they almost escaped the Sight thro a very good Microscope .
From whence I concluded , that these Glass~ windows could not be brought to their former lustre , but by washing them with a great deal of Water ; for if the Air were very clear , and the Weather dry , the watery Particles would soon exhale , but the Salts would cleave fast to the Glass , which said Salts would be again dissolved in moist Weather , and sit like a Dew or Mist upon the Windows .
And accordingly my People found it when they came to wash the aforementioned lower Windows of my House ; but as to the upper Windows where the Rain had beat against them , there was little or no Salt to be found sticking upon that Glass .
Now if we consider what a quantity of Sea water is spread all over the Country by such a terrible Storm , and consequently how greatly impregnated the Air is with the same ; we ought not to wonder , that such a quantity of Water , being moved with so great a force , should do so much mischief to Chimneys , tops of Houses , &amp;c. ~ to mention the damages at Sea .
During the said Storm , and about 8a Clock in the Morning , I cast my Eye upon my Barometer , and observed , that I had never seen the Quick-silver so low ; but half an hour after the Quick-silver began to rise , tho the Storm was not at all abated , at least to any appearance ; from whence I concluded , and said it to those that were about me , that the Storm would not last long ; and so it happened .
There are some that affirm , that the scattering of this Salt water by the Storm will do a great deal of harm to the Fruits of the Earth ; but for my part I am of a quite different opinion , for I believe that a little Salt spread over the surface of the Earth , especially where it is heavy Clay-ground , does render it exceeding Fruitful ; and so it would be if the Sand out of the Sea were made use of to

