The Ignition of Gases hy Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
381 property does entail a corresponding disadvantage .
It implies a lack of sensitiveness , which is geometrically obvious , in the method when the relative course lies fairly near the critical course .
Whether this would give rise to false alarms which might tend to discredit the method , is a question which must be decided by practical experience .
The Ignition of Gases hy Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
By Prof. W. M. Thoenton , D.Sc .
, D.Eng .
, Armstrong College , Newcastle-upon-Tyne .
( Communicated by the Hon. Sir Charles Parsons , F.R.S. Received November 15 , 1915 .
) 1 .
Sparking Distance .
Disruptive electrical discharge through a gas depends upon the number and nature of the molecules between the sparking points.* On the theory log */ p of ionisation by collision , the sparking distance S where is the number of pairs of ions generated by a negative ion in moving through a centimetre of the gas , / 3 the number generated by a positive ion.f In a mixture of gases , a and f3 both vary with the degree of mixture .
The addition of air to pure helium , for example , lowers / 3 more than a , and increases S. The electric strength of solid and liquid insulators has been shown to have at first the law S = av + bv2 up to values of S measured in centimetres ; following this , a final stage v = A + BS is generally found .
In gases , the measurements of de la Eve and Muller have shown that the first law holds for airJ up to 11,000 volts ; many subsequent measurements can be represented by the second , especially when the gas pressure is reduced to a few millimetres of mercury .
There appear to be no values on record of the change of the electric strength of gases when the pressure is impulsive .
A few of these are given in fig. 1 ; both stages are well marked .
When the mixture is inflammable , the passage of a spark may cause * W. de la Rue and H. W. Muller , 4 Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 171 , p. 102 ( 1880 ) .
t J. S. Townsend , 'Electricity in Gases , ' p. 322 .
J C. P. Steinmetz , " On the Disruptive Strength of Dielectrics , " 'Trans .
Amer .
I.E.E. , ' vol. 10 , p. 64 ( 1893 ) .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
ignition , but in many gases it is possible to have brilliant sparks which do not cause ignition of the most inflammable mixtures.* PRIMARY AMPERES Fi ; yl C V V .
l 5 1 o 1 5 r lo 2 .5 .
30 SPARK LENGTH .
MILLIMETRES .
2 .
Ignition by Impulsive Discharge .
The curves of fig. 2 show that the relation between igniting spark length and voltage V is very different from that of fig. 1 .
The shorter the spark the AMPERES .
SPARKGAP MILLIMETRES * " The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 90 , p. 272 : ( 1914 ) .
The Ignition of Gases hy Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
383 more difficult ignition becomes , except in those mixtures which are ignited by the first spark that passes .
Carbon monoxide has a regular series of steps which are of exceptional interest .
Their envelope has the simple law ( i\#151 ; a ) S = b , a constant .
The sectional area of the spark is proportional to the current passing , approximately .
Since a is small , the volumes of the least igniting sparks are the same whatever the spark length .
Tn other words , the number of electrons required for the ignition of this gas is the same always .
It will be shown later that Y is proportional to i , the primary current broken .
Writing IS = c , and substituting for S its value in either of the equations of S 1 , V is seen to be constant for all spark-lengths or of the form given by van der Waal 's equation , a horizontal line dividing the unstable part of the curve equally .
This is the shape of the experimental curve , a hyperbola on which are superposed steps having V constant .
The principal steps apparently originate from and coincide with the end of the transition stages in the pure combustible gas and in air in fig. 1 of the spark or glow .
When the voltage between the sparking points is maintained , the spark passes at a lower voltage than when it is impulsive .
Recent experiments on oils have shown that twice the steady sparking voltage is necessary in the latter case.* Under steady pressure there is always an interval of time between its application and the passage of a disruptive spark .
With impulsive pressures , such as are produced in high-tension magneto-ignition of internal combustion engines , the electric field and rate of initial ionisation must of necessity be greater in order that a spark may pass before the impulse has died down .
3 .
Impulsive Brush Discharge and True Spark .
Impulsive sparks , observed by focussing a lens magnifying five diameters upon the gap , differ in appearance from those obtained by maintained voltage .
As the sparking voltage is raised by increasing the primary current there appears first a bright momentary glow or brush discharge at each pole .
Observed by the eye alone without magnification these appear to be ill-defined sparks , but at a critical voltage the discharge becomes suddenly a true spark , more brilliant and of uniform cross-section throughout its length , which the glows were not .
Ignition is not confined to the true spark , but may occur with an intense brush glow , the formation of the glow appearing to depend upon whether the poles are thoroughly cleaned .
After several explosions , even of hydrogen and air , or after standing for many minutes in * W. Peek , Jun. , " The Law of 'Corona ' and Spark-over in Oil , " 'General Electric Review , ' New York , vol. 18 , No. 8 , p. 826 ( August , 1915 ) .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
contact with carbon monoxide , for example , before the spark is made , the latter becomes more difficult to produce .
The ratio of the brush to the true sparking voltage is shown in fig. 1 for hydrogen , and is about 0'6 in several cases .
4 .
Secondary Voltage Proportional to Primary Current .
The voltage induced in the secondary circuit of a transformer or induction coil when a steady current in the primary circuit is broken is perhaps the most easily controlled impulsive pressure .
In every such case the secondary voltage e2 = dN2/ dt , the rate of change of the flux N2 through the secondary coils .
From the theory of transformers , N2 = 47rhTiT2/ E , R being the reluctance of the magnetic circuit , i\ the primary^ current , Ti , T2 the primary and secondary turns .
In a transformer with an open magnetic circuit , such as an induction coil , R does not vary with the primary current , the magnetisation of the iron is on the straight part of the BH curve .
When the primary current is steady and suddenly broken , e2 varies as di\jdt .
For the same mechanical rate of break , di\/ dt is directly proportional to i ] .
In this case the secondary volts are proportional to the primary current .
It is therefore necessary to use a switch with a constant spring release in order to obtain consistent results .
In the following work the ordinates of the curves are the primary currents which , when broken , cause a secondary spark that just ignites the mixture .
These single impulsive discharges have been called " jump-sparks , " * to distinguish them from " extra-current " sparks made at the point of breaking a circuit .
5 .
Condenser Discharge and Stepped Ignition .
The discharge of a condenser by bringing together quickly wires attached to its terminals is impulsive , for ionisation does not begin until the gap is extremely small , and the discharge is complete in a millionth of a second , before the gap is closed .
Ignition by condenser discharge has definite critical stages , which occur as the percentage of oxygen is diminished . !
The difficulty of choice between an oxygen atom and several possible partners of combustible gas becomes suddenly acute , in steps which form a regular progression , each rise corresponding to the want of an oxygen atom .
There may be more than one combustible molecule in the critical group causing the step .
These steps have been considered , from the point of view of combustion , by Prof. Bone , J who believes that they cannot be accounted for by the usual * " The Reaction between Gas and Pole in the Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures , " loc. cit. , p. Xfc4 .
t " The* Ignition of Gases by Condenser Discharge Sparks , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 91 , p. 17 ( 1914 ) .
X Presidential Address to Section B , British Association , Manchester ( 1915 ) .
The Ignition of Gases by Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
385 chemical laws .
The evidence for them , based on many observations , is complete , and they must be regarded as pre-chemical atomic combination , caused by direct electrification , made visible by the extreme rapidity of this electrical discharge .
Steps of a similar kind have been obtained in the ignition by impulsive discharge of gases below atmospheric pressure .
They appear in a rising series as the pressure is lowered .
When they are not found the product of the voltage and gas pressure is approximately constant .
Steps have also been found by varying the length of the spark-gap , as shown in fig. 2 , from a different cause .
6 .
The Products of Combustion are Ionised .
The role of ionisation in explosion is still in debate .
There is strong probability that it dominates electrical ignition ; during self-ignition and the passage of flame there is evidence that it exists .
I have found that the products of gaseous explosion , especially of carbon monoxide , carry a strong positive charge , with the exception of the combination of hydrogen and oxygen , where there is little or none .
7 .
Percentage of Gas Varied .
When the spark-gap length is kept constant and the percentage of combustible gas in the mixtures is varied , curves connecting igniting impulsive voltage and percentage of gas are obtained , which are of interest when compared with those found with other kinds of ignition .
The purpose of the present paper is to give examples of these and to show by another method the existence of stepped ignition in certain gases , of which cyanogen is the best representative .
In a recent paper by Bone* and others a remarkable proof was given that the affinity of oxygen for methane is many times greater than for hydrogen .
In the present work a mixture of hydrogen and methane in equal volumes , with air just sufficient to burn both completely , requires electrical ignition as if of methane alone .
The hydrogen influences the magnitude but not the type of reaction .
8 .
Experimental Method and Gases used .
The essential apparatus for the production of impulsive discharge , the technique of which is simple , is a powerful induction coil of the usual X-ray type .
The vibrating contact of the primary circuit is locked together and the current made or broken by a separate quick-break switch , which may have a condenser across the break .
The method is to set the sparking points * W. A. Bone , " Gaseous Combustion at High Pressures , " 'Phil .
Trans.,5 A , vol. 215 , pp. 275-318 ( 1915 ) .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
to a convenient distance apart , 0*5 mm. for hydrogen , 2 mm. for methane , and , starting withi a small current , to break the circuit and observe .whether a spark passes in the explosive mixture .
It is always possible to find a limit to the spark which will fire an inflammable mixture , and the work consists in adjusting the current until a secondary spark is obtained which just causes ignition .
The conditions of ignition are surprisingly sensitive and certain , but the magnitude of the current and , to some extent , the differences observed , depend upon the kind of coil and switch used .
The results are therefore only comparative , and their interest lies in the types of gaseous combustion which are found , rather than in the absolute values of the electrical quantities .
The igniting sparks were made between the flat end of a platinum rod , 2*5 mm. diameter , and a platinum wire , 0*8 mm. diameter .
When smaller wires are used the gap varies , and when they overlap , as in explosion pipettes , the result is .
much less certain .
It is of the first importance that the rods to the sparking points should be led through rubber stoppers , the inside surface of which should be smeared with some non-hygroscopic substance to prevent condensation .
If not , the vessel must be kept thoroughly dry by exhaustion after each explosion , with a Geryk pump , for example .
Working in darkness , a discharge around the inner surface of the glass can be seen when these precautions are not taken , which increases the measured igniting current .
The poles were removed after every few explosions , thoroughly wiped with a fresh filter paper , and set by gauge to the same distance apart .
The gases were examined in four groups : ( 1 ) paraffins\#151 ; hydrogen , methane , propane , and pentane ; ( 2 ) olefines\#151 ; ethylene , and acetylene ; ( 3 ) carbon monoxide and cyanogen ; ( 4 ) coal gas and a mixture of hydrogen and methane .
The methane and propane were condensed and fractionated , and for them I am indebted to Dr. R. Y. Wheeler .
The others were carefully prepared and purified , but without liquefaction .
9 .
Hydrogen .
The results with hydrogen are given in fig. 3 .
The limits of inflammability , with a gap of 0*5 mm. , were 9 and 61*5 per cent. The curve has a mean straight line base , inclined upwards as the percentage of hydrogen is raised , in the manner of ignition of hydrogen by alternating current break-sparks , * or of the^paraffins by continuous current breaks .
In the present case , however , there are to be observed points of selective difficulty of ignition * " The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures , " loc. cit. , p. 284 , fig. 6 .
The Ignition of Gases by Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
387 which are persistent .
There is a cusp at 17*5 per cent. , others at 29*5 per cent , and at 42 per cent. , a rapid rise at 55 per cent. , and the limit towards 62 per cent. These may be compared with the following:\#151 ; H2 + 02 = 17*1 per cent. PERCENT ofhydrogen in air in air , H2 + 0 = 29*2 per cent. , 2H2+0 = 45*2 per cent. , 3H2 + 0 = 55*2 per cent. , and 4H2 + 0 = 62*2 per cent. The steps in condenser ignition* were at 29*5 , 45 , 55 , and 70 per cent. , the upper limit with that type of ignition , which is at 6H2 + 0 = 70 per cent. It is impossible , in the agreement of the new points with the condenser curve , to resist the conclusion that when singular points or critical conditions of ignition arise they are in both cases of impulsive discharge associated with the number of atoms in contact , irrespective of whether known compounds are formed .
Sir J. J. Thomson has shown that transient groups in every possible combination of the gases present are formed by discharge in high vacua , f An inclined line passing through the origin was shown to be characteristic of ignition by break-sparks , J and was there attributed to the * " Ignition by Condenser Discharge Sparks,55 loc. cit. , p. 21 .
+ ' Rays of Positive Electricity and their Application to Chemical Analysis,5 figs. 35 et seq. X " The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures,55 fig. 2 .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
effort required to ionise the combustible gas .
It is now found with a spark the essential feature of which is ionisation .
10 .
Methane .
With this kind of ignition methane appears to be sensitive to slight changes on the surface of the poles .
With the pure gas sent by Dr. Wheeler the limits were 6 and 12'5 per cent. , as shown in fig. 4 .
If the poles were AMPE .
RES 7 6 I o II IZ 13 14PER CENT OF METHANE IN AIR not cleaned after every few explosions , steps appeared in the curve even with this gas , which disappeared again when the poles were cleaned .
The fact that steps are found at all indicates that from a chemically clean surface of platinum ionisation is more difficult to start than after it has been in contact with products of combustion , for the stepped type is associated with great rapidity of action .
The steps with condenser discharge were at 11 , 13 , and \#171 ; \#166 ; 14 per cent.* In the present case they were at 6 , 7 , 7'5 , 9'75 , 11 , and 12 per * " Ignition by Condenser Discharge Sparks , " loc. cit. , fig. 2 .
The Ignition of Gases hy Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
389 cent. If there were any rigorous relation between steps and percentage , it might be expected to be found in both kinds .
There is one common point at 11 per cent. The relative slowness of ignition of methane , and the fact that the steps can be prevented with this kind of ignition , render it necessary to use only condenser discharge in the examination of the formation of atomic groups of methane and oxygen , or to work withi reduced pressures .
The base of fig. 4 is horizontal ; ignition is thus independent of the percentage of combustible gas or of the heat of combustion of unit volume of the mixture .
The disruptive voltage Y = aS4-\amp ; is constant for a given spark length S , and as the percentage of methane in air is varied can be shown to remain nearly constant .
A separate determination ( fig. 1 ) of the relation of Y and S in terms of the primary current gave the following , S being in millimetres and i in amperes .
i = 0*12 S +0*25 , for methane , i = 0*074 S + 0*4 , for air .
With a spark gap of 4 mm. i = 0*49 in pure methane , 0*548 in air alone , and 0*495 in 10-per-cent , methane in air .
The change of disruptive voltage with percentage of gas is therefore small .
Since the heat of combustion of unit volume of the mixture varies greatly between the limits of inflammability , the conclusion is that the electrical ignition of methane is a process unaffected by thermal reactions in the gas , , that it is in fact electrical and not chemical .
The view that would seem to* satisfy the conditions is that during the active ionisation preceding the spark there is recombination depending chiefly upon the sign of the charges carried .
It is in this stage that the stepped ignition originates , determined only by the relative numbers of molecules or atoms of combustible gas and oxygen that are ionised .
Stepped ignition cannot occur after self-ignition has started , for the velocities of explosion measured by Dixon show no signs of it .
It must , therefore , occur before the establishment of the explosion wave , that is in the preliminary ionisation stage .
Condenser discharge of extreme rapidity is most favourable to its formation ; the impulsive discharge of the present work also brings it out in acetylene and cyanogen .
The fact that flat-based curves closely resembling fig. 4 have previously been found for both hydrogen and carbon monoxide with much slower circuit break sparks , would lead to the conclusion that the rate of ionisation of both of these gases in the act of ignition is relatively slow , though their explosion waves , once established ( which are dominated by the great thermal energy set free ) , are faster than in methane .
vol. xcn.\#151 ; A , 2 a Prof. W. M. Thornton .
Dr. Bones discovery of the greater affinity of oxygen for methane than for hydrogen , together with the present curves , may then be additional proof that ionisation precedes combustion , so far as the form of the ignition curve for disruptive discharge is an indication of the relative rates of ionisation in the different mixtures .
The wave front of an explosion wave in a closed vessel : is not drawn along by preparatory ionisation but driven forward by the translational energy of the flame and products of combustion behind it .
11 .
Propane .
Ignition was in this case so difficult that the gap had to be increased to 4 mm. between platinum points .
The curve of fig. 5 is not unlike hydrogen PER CENT OF PROPANE IN AIR and carbon monoxide .
There is a step at 4 per cent. , combustion to CO2 being at 3'96 , and a remarkable cusp at 6 per cent. , verified many times .
Combustion to CO is at 5*56 , and it would seem that propane , like methane , though e\amp ; sy to burn to CO in explosion , is hard to ignite to CO by impulsive sparks .
There was a step at 6 per cent , in condenser-spark ignition .
The Ignition of Gases by Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
391 12 .
Pentane .
The curve ( fig. 6 ) is very like hydrogen , free from singular points .
The limits of horizontal transmission are 1*35 and 4*5 per cent. In the present 1-0 i 5 2.0 2-5 3 0 3 5 4o ^5 50 5-5 6 0 PER CENT OF PENTANE INMR case , 1*5 per cent , could not be ignited , and , though there was a clear approach to an upper limit at 4*5 per cent. , the mixture was readily ignited up to 5*5 .
Above 4'5 a burning cap appeared where the spark had passed , diminishing as the richness of the mixture was increased .
The most inflammable mixture is 2*75 to 3 per cent. , that for perfect combustion being 2*51 .
The descending branch and base produced intersect at 2*6 per cent. The curve is identical in form with that obtained by continuous current break-sparks .
Since hydrogen and pentane are similar , and propane intermediate between the methane and pentane types , it suggests that the ignition of methane is abnormal , rather than that of hydrogen .
As a further test of this the limits of inflammability are of interest .
13 .
Limits of Inflammability of the Paraffins .
Wheeler has shown that the lower limit of inflammability of all the paraffin series up to pentane is inversely proportional to their calorific Prof. W. M. Thornton .
values.* It is , however , possible that both upper and lower limits depend as much upon the relative number of oxygen atoms in the mixture .
The limits are as follows ( Table I):\#151 ; Table I. Lower , L. Upper , U. Oxygen , n. nV .
Per cent , for ( 2\#187 ; \#151 ; 1 .
) Hydrogen , H2 9*0 72 -0 1 72 0 _ Methane , CH4 Ethane , C2H6 5*6 14-8 4 59 -2 5*55 3 T 10 -7 7 74-9 3*08 Propane , C3H8 2T7 7 35 10 73 -5 2*12 Butane , C4H10 1 -55 5-7 13 74 -1 1 -62 Pentane , CgH^ 1 *35 4-5 16 72 '0 1*31 In the fourth column is the number of oxygen atoms required for complete combustion of a molecule of the gas .
The product of this and the upper limit is nearly the same for all but methane , which should have another atom of oxygen to bring it into line .
The upper limit of inflammability is ( with this exception ) inversely proportional to the number of oxygen atoms required for complete combustion , irrespective of whether they combine with carbon or hydrogen .
That is to say , the action of the combustible gas is molecular and not in the first place atomic .
The upper limit of inflammability of the paraffins is reached when the volume of combustible gas is twice that for perfect combustion , as shown in Table II .
Table II .
Mixture .
Gras in air .
i Observed upper limit .
2CH4 + 04 2C2H6 + Or per cent. 17 -2 14 -3 10 5 10 *7 2C3H8 + O10 7*6 7*35 2C4H10 + 013 5*9 5*7 205H12 + O16 \ 4*9 4*5 On the other hand when the volume of oxygen is twice that required for perfect combustion ignition fails at the lower limit .
When , however , there is one atom less than this , so that the mixture corresponds to ( 2n\#151 ; 1 ) atoms of oxygen to a molecule of combustible gas , ignition is just possible .
There is a close coincidence between the lower limit for horizontal transmission and * " The Lower Limit of Inflammation of Mixtures of the Paraffin Hydrocarbons with Air.'* By M. J. Burgess and E. Y. Wheeler , ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 99 , p. 2013 ( 1911 ) .
The Ignition of Gases hy Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
393 these mixtures , as shown in Table I. In this case methane agrees with the others .
14 .
Ethylene .
The ignition of ethylene is unique amongst the gases examined , in that the richer mixtures are easiest to ignite .
' Its lower limit is here between 5'5 and 6 per cent. , its upper limit at 17 per cent , ( see fig. 7 ) , combustion to CO\#171 ; is at amperes l iO II 12 .
13 1-4- IS 16 17 PERCENT OP ETHYLENE IN AIR 6*5 , to CO at 9*4 per cent. The mixture C2H4 + 03 = 12*1 per cent. , and the three flat stages are approximately symmetrical about the mixtures having 06 , O4 and O3 respectively .
The lower limit is then just below ignition to CO2 ; the upper limit corresponds to C2H4-f 02 = 17*1 per cent , in air .
There is no reaction with less air than this .
Ignition of ethylene is with these sparks easiest when ozone is most readily formed around the combustible molecule ; next when two molecules Prof. W. M. Thornton .
of oxygen , and lastly three , collide most frequently with it .
It is a remarkable illustration of the control of ignition by ionised oxygen .
15 .
Acetylene .
This is an example of the methane type with a lower limit just below 3 per cent , and an upper limit at 48 per cent. From 5 to 20 per cent , the smallest spark which could be made with the gap used caused ignition .
At 20 per cent , there is a remarkable step , which is emphasised by using a short spark-gap .
The three curves A , B and C , fig. 8 , show the influence of gap AMPERES 15 SO 2J5 30 35 A-S 50 PER CENT OF ACETYLENE INAiR .
length .
When it is 1*5 mm. no spark or ignition is obtained with less than 0-6 ampere in the primary circuit ; with 11 mm. it is 0*3 ampere , with 0*8 mm. 0'25 ampere , and the rise of current in the step at 20 per cent , is in the three cases 0*6 to 1*5 , 0*3 to 3*0 , 0*25 to 5*0 amperes respectively .
Two things are here evident , first that when a short gap is used the upper limit may be less The Ignition of Gases hy Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
395 than that found with a longer one , provided that there is stepped ignition ; second that with a long gap the steps might be quite obliterated , since the effect of lengthening it is to raise the first flat and to lower the succeeding ones .
The gas in curves B and C is the same , well purified and passed through a freezing mixture .
The step with one gap is at 20 per cent. , with the other at 25 .
This movement of the step has been observed in the case of methane and is most probably due to the strong first spark which passes forcing the 20 per cent , step towards 29'2 the next possible step here .
It is midway between 21-6 and 29'2* Above 45 per cent , there is local burning but not true explosion .
The influence of gap length is that the fewer the molecules there are between the poles the more important the critical collision frequency becomes .
At 22 per cent , carbon is thrown down by the explosion in heavy clouds , below this much less .
The following mixtures appear to be critical , the 03 mixture having , as with ethylene , most influence on the form of the curve:\#151 ; Table III .
Mixture .
Gas in air .
C5H.J + 0^4 per cent. ' 2*86 7*6 21 *6 29 *2 45 *4 Lower limit .
Step .
Step .
Upper limit .
2C2H2 + Ojo 2C2H2 + O3 2CnHo + 02 ... 2C2H2 + 0 " .
16 .
Gavion Monoxide .
There is a general resemblance of the carbon monoxide curve ( fig 9 ) to that of hydrogen .
Its limits are 9'5 and 70 per cent. , and the mean base line passes through the origin .
To avoid any possible poisoning action between the platinum poles and the gas , they were fitted with carbon pencil points , having a 1-mm .
gap , between which the discharge passed .
The slope of the base , measured in amperes per unit percentage of gas and per unit length of spark-gap , is now 0-06 , not very different from that of hydros which was 0-05 .
The salients in the curve were always well established .
' e mixture for CO + 03 is 12-1 per cent. , the most easily ignited acetylene and ethylene .
' :en , as in * See also " Condenser Spark Ignition , " loc. tit .
, p. 19 .
39,6 Prof. W. M. Thornton .
amperes 30 35 PERCENT OF CARBON MONOXIDE IN AIR .
17 .
Cyanogen .
The ignition of cyanogen is perhaps the most suggestive of all the gases examined .
Its lower limit , with impulsive sparks , is at 7*7 per cent. , the upper at 38 per cent. ( fig. 10 ) .
Starting from the lower limit , there is first a deep dip as if to a minimum at 8 per cent. This is followed by a unique rise and a descent by a step , as in ethylene , to a flat stage between 12 and 17 per cent. There is a rise at 30 per cent , and another at 35 per cent. , followed by the upper limit .
The most interesting feature is the clear role of atomic oxygen in the formation of steps .
Table IY .
Mixture .
o/ c2n2 .
Gas in air .
c2n2+o5 5 per cent. 7*6 Lower limit .
C2N2+04 4 9*3 Step A. C2N2 + O3 3 12 2 " B. C2N2 + 02 C2N3 + 0 2 17 *1 " 0 .
1 29 -2 " D. 4C2N2 + 02 2 35 *4 " E. 3C2N2 + 02 | 38 *0 Upper limit .
The reaction at the upper limit is 3C2N2 + O2 = 2C2N2 + 2CO + N2 .
The Ignition of Gases hy Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
397 AMFELRE .
S \ 1 y Fi g.lQ ' Ej A 1 D .
J 1 u j 1 _ y J |7 i I 1 L 0 5 IO 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 PER CENT OF CYANOGEN IN AIR 18 .
Coal Gas .
The high efficiency to which gas-engine ignition has been brought is made possible by the fact revealed in fig. 11 , that the same electrical ignition is sufficient for all mixtures .
The curve is that of methane .
In the present case the lower limit is at 9-5 per cent. , that of hydrogen in air .
The upper limit is at 29 per cent. The gas is more sensitive to ignition than methane and in magnitude of current approaches hydrogen .
The flat base is of the greatest importance in gas-engine practice .
As a working substance a mixture of methane and hydrogen is almost ideal .
The steps may be possibly due to some action on the poles , though care was taken to remove deposit .
vol. xcn.\#151 ; A. Prof. W. M. Thornton .
amperes 6 I * O ___________ ______________________ , --5 lO 15 20 2.5 30 PER CENT OF COAL G^S IN / MR 19 .
Hydrogen and Methane .
A mixture of equal volumes of pure hydrogen and methane has the curve of ignition given in fig. 12 .
It differs from coal gas only in the more rounded AMPERES PERCENT OF COMBUSTIBLE GAS ^ + F g 1 .
t -J l(v* n .\#151 ; The Ignition of Gases by Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
399 approach to the upper limit .
This is probably owing to the absence of unsaturated hydrocarbons of the ethylene type , which , as shown in fig. 7 , are most inflammable in rich mixtures , and would possibly have the effect of making the corner sharper .
The limits are just below 8 per cent , and above 16 per cent. Ignition follows methane .
This is a striking confirmation of Bone 's measurements of the relative affinities of methane and hydrogen .
It shows further that they hold in the very earliest stage of explosion .
20 .
Types of Electrical Ignition of Gases .
It is now possible to make a preliminary survey of the types of electrical ignition , as illustrated by the curves , having critical electrical conditions for ordinates , percentage of combustible gas in air for abscissae .
There are four , shown in fig. 13 .
First in order of interest and of simplicity is that invariably FlG .
I3 TVPE5 OF ELECTRICAL IGNITION found with condenser discharge .
This is characterised by extreme rapidity ; it is , in fact , one of the most rapid forms of physical activity .
By it the first atomic groupings , following and caused by the initial ionisation but preceding the establishment of self-ignition , are made visible as if by the spark itself .
This type is occasionally found with impulsive coil discharge and is .prechemical .
, In the second type the steps are smoothed out and the curves have an inclined base passing through or nearly through the origin .
The difficulty of finding sufficient ionised oxygen to start combustion occurs here not in steps but uniformly as the percentage of oxygen is diminished .
It occurs equally whether the combustible atom is hydrogen or carbon .
This type is found with impulsive discharge in about half the cases , in the continuous current break-spark ignition of the paraffins and alcohols , in both continuous and alternating current ignition of carbon disulphide , in the alternating 400 The Ignition of Gases hy Impulsive Electrical Discharge .
current ignition of hydrogen , and the continuous current ignition of carbon monoxide.* It is nearly the same whatever the metal of the poles.f The third type can be either placed here or regarded as the most fundamental type of all .
The argument for placing it between the last type and that of Class 4 is based on the clear transition from one type to the other , as the metals of the poles are changed from copper to iron , nickel , aluminium , and platinum .
It is also found in the differences between continuous and alternating current ignition of hydrogen and in carbon monoxide .
In its complete form , with sharp corners and steep sides , it is independent of any chemical combination , and this is a reason for regarding it as the fundamental type .
It depends only upon the electric strength of the mixture or the ionising power of break-sparks .
This type is characteristic of ignition of methane by impulsive sparks , of hydrogen by continuous current break-sparks .
The fourth type is found in the alternating current ignition of the paraffins and alcohols , and in both the alternating and continuous current ignition of benzene .
It has been shown that the relative influence of the metal of the poles on ignition by alternating current is to be explained by their rates of heating .
It follows that , since alternating current ignition is the extreme type of slow ignition and condenser discharge of rapidity , the curves of fig. 13 cover the whole range , and that the type for any given gas depends upon the rapidity of transfer of electrical activity from the circuit to the gas .
Whether there is any change of this with pressure remains to be examined .
21 .
Summary .
The ignition of gases by impulsive discharge is considered first as a function of sparking distance .
It is shown that the shorter the distance the greater the spark , so that the volumes of the least igniting sparks are , in a typical case , the same for all spark lengths .
Ignition may occur with intense momentary brush discharge , generally with the true disruptive spark .
The products of combustion are found to be ionised and to carry a positive charge .
The gases examined were mixtures in air of hydrogen , methane , propane , and pentane ; ethylene and acetylene ; carbon monoxide and cyanogen ; coal gas and a mixture of equal volumes of hydrogen and methane .
Hydrogen , propane , pentane , and carbon monoxide rise gradually in difficulty as the * See " " Che Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures , " loc. cit. , figs. 2-7 .
t " The [ Reaction between Gas and Pole in the Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures , " loc. cit. , figs. 1 and 4 .
Atmospheric Electrical Variations at Sunrise and Sunset .
401 percentage of oxygen is reduced ; methane is ignited by the same spark whatever the percentage of gas may be , acetylene and cyanogen have the stepped atomic type of ignition , ethylene is more inflammable in rich mixtures .
Hydrogen and methane in equal volumes are ignited as methane in type , hydrogen in magnitude .
The limits of inflammability of the paraffins are shown to be reached , the upper limit when there is twice the volume of combustible gas to that in the mixture for perfect combustion , the lower limit when the volume of oxygen is twice that for perfect combustion less 1 atom to the molecule .
The ignition of coal gas is through methane .
Four types of electrical ignition are given , covering all from the most rapid to the slowest rate of discharge from the poles .
The work gives direct evidence that ignition begins by ionisation of the oxygen of the mixture .
Investigation of Atmospheric Electrical Variations at Sunrise and Sunset .
By E. H. Nichols , B.Se .
, A.B.C.Sc .
( Communicated by Sir Napier Shaw , F.R.S. Received March 11 , 1916 .
) The scheme of investigation described in the following paper was suggested by the scheme of sunrise and sunset observations formulated in 1913 by the British Association Committee for Radiotelegraphic Investigation .
As the phenomena of wireless transmission are supposed to be primarily associated with the upper atmosphere , any intimate connection between the phenomena here detailed and those exhibited by wireless is unlikely , but it is possible that the two sets of results may throw some light on one another .
As the periods near sunrise and sunset are attended by more conspicuous variations in the intensity of atmospherics or " strays , " special observations were taken at these times .
The instruments used were the Wilson compensating gold-leaf electroscope* and two Ebert electrometers.f The former gave the conductivity , and the air-earth current was obtained by combining this with the potential observations obtained from the Kelvin water-dropper .
The conductivity measured is usually considered to be due to the positive * ' Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc./ vol. 13 , p. 184 ( 1906 ) ; 'Meteorological Office Memoirs/ No. 7 .
t 'Phys .
Zeit./ vol. 8 , No. 8 , p. 246 ; vol. 8 , No. 16 , p. 527 ; vol. 10 , No. 8 , p. 251 .
VOL. XCII.\#151 ; A. 2 I

