III .
Postscript to a Paper " On Compound Colouirs , and on the Relations of the Colours of the Spectrum .
" By J. CLERK MAXWELL , Esq. Communicated by Professor STOIKES , Sec. R.S. Received May 8 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) Account of Ex.periments on the Spec-'um as seen by the Colour-blind .
The instrument used in these observations was similar to that already described .
By reflecting the light back through the prisms by in axis of a colncave mirror , the instrument is rendered much Jliorter a-id more portable , while the definition of the spectrum Is rather improved .
The experiments were made by two colour-blind observers , one of whom , however , did not obtain sunlight at the time of observation .
The other obtained results , both with cloudlight and sun-light , in the way already described .
It appears from these observationsL .
That any two colours of the spectrum , on opposite sides of the line " F , " may be combined in such proportions as to form white .
II .
That all the colours on the more refrangible side of F appear to the colour-blind " blue , " and all those on the less refrangible side appear to them of another colour , which they generally speak of as " Cyellow , " thong ' the greeni at E appears to them as good a representative of that colour as any other part of the spectrum .
III .
That the parts of the spectrum from A to E differ only in intensity , and not in colour ; the light being too faint for good experiments between A and D , but not distinguishable in colour from E reduced to the same intensity .
The maximum is about 2 from D towards E. IV .
Between E and F the colour appears to vary from the pure " c yellow " of E to a " neutral tint " near F , which cannot be distinguished from white when looked at steadily .
V. At F the blue and the " yellow " element of colour are in equilibrium , and at this part of the spectrum the same blindniess of the central spot of the eye is found in the colour-blind that has been already observed in the normal eye , so that the brightness of the spectrum appears decidedly less at F than on either side of that line ; and when a large portion of the retina is illuminated with the light of this part of the spectrum , the limbus luteus appears as a dark spot , moving with the inovements of the eye .
The observer has not yet been able to distinguislh ilaidinger 's " brushes " while observing polarized light of this colour , in which they are very conspicuous to the author .
VI .
Between F and a point I from F towards G , the colour appears to vary from the neutral tint to pure blue , while the brightness increases , and reaches a maximum at 3 from F towards G , and then diminishes towards the more refrangible enid of the spectrum , the purity of the colour being apparently the same throughout .
VII .
The theory of colour-blind vision being " dichromic , " is confirmed by these experiments , the resu lts of which agree with those obtained already by normal or " trichromic " eyes , if we suppose the " red " element of colour eliminated , and the " green .
" and " blue " elenments left as they were , so that the " red-making rays , " though dimly visible to the dichromic eye , excite the sensation not of red but of green , or as they call it , " ' yellow .
" VIII .
The extreme red ray of the spectrum appears to be a sufficiently good representative of the defective element in the colourblind .
When the ordinary eye receives this ray , it experiences the sensation of which the dichromic eye is incapable ; and when the dichromic eye receives it , the luminous effect is probably of the same kind as that observed by Helmholtz in the ultra-violet part of the spectrum-a sensibility to light , without much appreciation of colour .
A set of observations of coloured papers by the same dichromic observer was then compared with a set of observations of the same papers by the author , and it was foundL .
That the colour-blind observations were consistent among themselves , on the hypothesis of two elements of colour .
2 .
That the colour-blind observations were consistent with the author 's observations , on the hypothesis that the two elements of colour in dichromic vision are identical with two of the three elements of colour in normal vision .
3 .
That the element of colour , by which the two types of vision differ , is a red , whose relationis to vermilion , ultramarine , and emeraldgreen are expressed by the equation D= 1198V ?
0-078U-0-276G , where D is the defective element , and V , U and G the three colours named above .

