363 1889 .
] Barium Sulphate as a Cement in Sandstone .
This research shows distinctly that the decomposition of chlorine-water by light may be divided into two essentially different parts or periods of chemical change , and that the kinds of chemical change occurring during these two periods are largely different .
During the first period , a very great and gradual loss of voltaic energy occurs , attended by formation of hydrochloric , hypochlorous , and chloric acids .
During the second period , a moderate and very slow increase of voltaic energy takes place , accompanied by decomposition of the hypochlorous and chloric acids , a further formation of hydrochloric acid , and the production of peroxide of hydrogen .
Under the influence of prolonged sunlight , the whole of the oxygen of the hypochlorous and chloric acids united with water to form peroxide of hydrogen , and the peroxide then combined with the whole of the hydrochloric acid to form a definite " solution compound " represented by the formula 2IiCl , H202 .
The chemical composition of the products of the change at the ends of the first and second periods of change was ascertained by means of the voltaic balance and ordinary chemical analysis .
During the first period forty consecutive measurements of the voltaic energy at stated intervals of time were made , and the energy diminished from about 1219 millions to 2'9 millions ; and during the second period eight such measurements were made , and the energy increased to 9'3 millions .
A curve is given showing the rate of loss of energy during the first period .
It is interesting to observe , that suitably decomposed chlorine-water , or , in its stead , a mixture of 6HC1 + HCIO + HCIO3 dissolved in a proper proportion of water , has the property of absorbing energy by exposure to light , very much like that possessed by the green leaves of plants .
XIY .
" Barium Sulphate as a Cement in Sandstone/ ' By Frank Clowes , D.Sc .
, Principal and Professor of Chemistry and Metallurgy in University College , Nottingham .
Communicated by Professor Armstrong , F.R.S. Received June 6 , 1889 .
About six miles west of Nottingham there are two prominent conical sandstone hills which are so different in appearance from any surrounding elevations of the surface as to arrest attention .
These are known as Stapleford Hill and Bramcote Hill .
In the gap between them stands a remarkable sandstone pillar , some 30 feet in height , and 70 feet in circumference , and distinctly crowned by a flattened mushroom-shaped cap. This is locally known as the Hemlock Stone .
The sandstone beds forming these hills and columns have been classed Dr. F. Clowes .
[ June 20 , by geologists as the Keuper basement beds of the Trias .
But no satisfactory explanation has yet been given of the power possessed by these bold elevations to resist the denudation which has removed the surrounding deposit .
An analysis of a sample of sandstone from the top of the Hemlock Stone was made a few years since by R. F. Blake and A. P. Beddard , then students in my laboratory .
They detected a large amount of barium sulphate in a crystalline condition , inclosing and binding together the grains of sand .
This appeared to furnish a clue to the cause of the resistent power possessed by the stone .
In the company of Professor Blake , I proceeded accordingly to collect specimens of the sandstone present at different levels of the Hemlock Stone and of the two adjacent hills , and to subject them to qualitative analysis .
Qualitative Composition.\#151 ; The cap of the Hemlock Stone was found to be free from carbonates and from calcium , and contained much barium sulphate ; the stone was compact and hard .
The soft loose sandstone at certain lower levels , however , contained some calcium sulphate and a variable proportion of calcium carbonate , the barium sulphate being in much smaller quantity than in the top ; sodium was also present in fair proportion .
The resistent power conferred by the almost insoluble barium sulphate upon the top of the stone would probably explain its projecting cap-like shape , the lower portions having suffered by weathering to a far larger extent , owing to the more soluble nature of the calcium compounds which they contained , and to the smaller proportion of the barium sulphate .
The sandstone of which Bramcote Hill is composed showed a variation in chemical composition similar to that of the Hemlock Stone .
The sandstone at the summit of the hill was free from carbonates , and contained much barium sulphate ; this was the general character of the stone at lower levels , but one sample , taken about half-way up the hill , contained calcium carbonate and a less , showed throughout an absence of carbonates and of calcium , while barium sulphate was always present , and usually in quantity .
Distribution of the Barium Sulphate .
In certain portions of the sandstone the barium sulphate is evenly distributed throughout the mass of the rock , giving on fracture a surface of compact and uniform appearance .
In other portions the sulphate is seen on the surface produced by fracture as a network of light-coloured compact veins inclosing darker and more or less loose sand grains ; the weathered surface in this case presents a honeyproportion of barium sulphate .
Stapleford Hill , on the other 1889 .
] Barium Sulphate as a Cement Sandstone .
365 combed or fretted appearance , which is particularly noticeable on the cap of the Hemlock Stone .
In other parts , the fractured sandstone shows compact blotches of sand cemented by the sulphate , with intervening loose and darker portions ; the stone at the upper part of Bramcote Hill is of this character , and after prolonged weathering it has been converted into what lias been called the pebble bed ; this is a loose sand bed enclosing rounded pebble-like masses of sand grains bound together by the sulphate ; these are usually about the size and shape of a hazel-nut .
Quantitative Composition.\#151 ; As this sandstone appears to be unique in composition amongst the sandstones of this country , quantitative analyses were made of the portions which contained the largest proportion of barium sulphate .
They yielded the following results:\#151 ; Hemlock Stone .
Stapleford Hill .
Bramcote Hill .
Top .
1 Near base .
2 Top .
3 Base .
4 " Pebble " at top .
5 Middle height .
6 Loss at 100 ' C. moisture . .
0-21 0 24 Oil 0-20 0-18 0 05 Loss by ignition ( organic matter , \amp ; c. ) 0-87 2T3 0-36 0-39 ' 0-93 0-72 Fe203 + A1203 6-41 4 84 3 -53 4-46 5-10 4-45 BaO 30 -23 21-89 30-81 32-80 18-52 33 -30 CaO o-oo 1-68 0-02 0 00 o-oo 0 00 MgO 013 1 -08 0 -10 o-oo 0 00 o-oo so3 v 16 -39 12-09 16-58 17 14 10 14 17-42 Si02 44 '46 54 " 52 47 -36 43 -77 62-59 41 -47 Alkalis , \amp ; c. ( by difference ) .
1 30 1 -53 1T3 1 -24 2 -54 2-59 BaS04 present 46 03 33*33 46-92 49-95 28 -20 50 06 Weathering.\#151 ; It would be inferred from the composition of this sandstone , that it would suffer loss only with extreme slowness by weathering , owing to the very slight solubility under ordinary conditions of the barium sulphate .
Experiments were made to confirm this supposition by treating finely powdered specimens of Nos. 1 and 2 , the analyses of which have been given above , with hot dilute hydrochloric acid for some considerable time .
Analyses of the solid matter dissolved by the acid gave the following results :\#151 ; Dr. F. Clowes .
[ June 20 , No. 1 .
No. 2 .
Loss at 100 ' . . . .
0*21 0-21 Loss bj ignition. . . .
0-87 1 -60 In solution in HC1 .
Fe20a + Al203 0-97 2-34 CaO 0 00 101 MgO s 0 13 0-22 Si02 \#166 ; 0-66 1 20 Alkalis , \amp ; e. ( by difference ) .
0-85 1-33 Insoluble in HC1 96 31 92 09 It may be assumed that the loss which the sandstone suffers by long treatment in the form of powder with dilute hydrochloric acid , will be greater than that caused by very long weathering , since the hot acid is a more powerful solvent than rain-water , and it is further enabled to attack the whole mass of the stone instead of the surface only .
Under these extreme conditions , however , the stone forming the cap of the Hemlock Stone lost only 3"7 per cent , of its weight .
Its protective power as an unwasting cover over the column beneath is therefore easily understood .
The whole substance of the two hills will evidently behave in a similar way to the top of the Hemlock Stone , and render them practically permanent under the action of weathering .
Microscopic Examination.\#151 ; Professor Lebour kindly undertook the microscopic examination of a fine section of this sandstone , prepared by Mr. Gr .
Healey .
He reports that " the cementing material is undoubtedly crystalline barium sulphate , " and that " besides the quartz grains , there are others of much the same average size and shape , the nature of which is not clear .
" The quartz grains are " more angular than rounded , and include narrow , rod-like crystals , which in all likelihood are apatite .
" Occurrence of Barium Sulphate in other Sandstones .
The occurrence of barium sulphate in British sandstones has not been hitherto noticed ; this at least was the verdict of the geologists assembled at the British Association meeting at Aberdeen , before whom a preliminary announcement of the discovery was made ( c Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1885 , p. 1088 ) .
A careful examination of a large number of specimens of sandstone from the neighbourhood of Nottingham , and from other parts of the country , has confirmed this verdict .
I have in no case found even a trace of any barium compound .
Mr. H. T. Brown , F.R.S. , however , 1889 .
] Barium Sulphate as a Cement Sandstone .
367 after examining at my request a number of specimens in his possession , found in one of them a small quantity of barium , entirely in the form of carbonate .
This specimen was taken from the rock of Beeston Castle Hill , Cheshire , from Keuper basement beds , of the same formation , therefore , as those in which the sulphate has been found in this neighbourhood .
In the geology of the neighbourhood of Chester ( ' Gfeol .
Survey Memoirs , ' 1882 , pp. 7 , 8 ) , Mr. Aubrey Strahan , M.A. , states that barium sulphate occurs in cracks in the rock of Beeston Castle : and further infers that the sulphate may exist as a cementing material , since the cement gives a sulphur reaction with the blowpipe .
The presence of the sulphate in cracks of the stone is similar to its presence in crystal tufts in the cracks of the septaria of the London clay , which has been long known .
The occurrence of the sulphate over a large area in the Nottingham district , as well as in Cheshire , seems to indicate that the substance may be characteristic of the particular formation in which it occurs in both localities , namely the Keuper basement beds .
On the Continent the occurrence of barium sulphate , under conditions more or less similar to those recorded above , has been recorded by Bischof ( ' Chem. and Phys. Geology , ' vol. 1 , p. 483 ) .
Sandstone cemented by barium sulphate , was found by him in Miinzenberg , in the Witterau .
He also describes disintegrated granite as being found cemented by the sulphate on the declivities of the Morvan ; and sand and clay were found compacted by the sulphate in the district of Keuznach .
Process of Deposition .
There seems little to indicate the way in which the nearly insoluble sulphate has been deposited in the sand in the case under consideration .
There is the possibility of barium sulphide in solution becoming insoluble by oxidation , as suggested by Professor Church ; or the sulphate itself may exist in solution under conditions at present unknown , and be deposited directly from its solution .
The fact that calcium sulphate was detected in some specimens of the sandstone which I examined , and that barium carbonate was found in similar beds in Cheshire , lends probability , however , to the formation of the sulphate by double decomposition .
Bischof describes experiments in which solid barium carbonate , as well as barium bicarbonate or barium silicate in solution , were readily converted into barium sulphate by the action of any soluble sulphate , such as the sulphate of calcium or of magnesium .
And Haidingei-(Poggendorff 's ' Annalen , ' vol. 11 , p. 376 ) has traced the change in progress in nature ; barium carbonate present in mountain limestone of Alston Moor being found by him undergoing slow conversion from vol. xlvi .
, 2 c Dr. F. Clowes .
[ June 20 , the surface inwards into the crystalline sulphate .
Further , barium sulphate is known to occur as a pseudomorph of barytocalcite .
The abundant presence of calcium sulphate in the sandstone in the neighbourhood of Nottingham points to the probability of the barium sulphate having been formed in situ by the process of double decomposition , and probably from barium carbonate which has been found elsewhere in sandstone beds of the same formation .
XV .
" Deposits of Barium !
Sulphate from Mine-water .
" By Frank Clowes , D.Sc .
, Principal and Professor of Chemistry and Metallurgy in University College , Nottingham .
Communicated by Professor Armstrong , F.R.S. Received June 6 , 1889 .
Specimens of remarkable deposits which have formed in the water-boxes of coal-mines in the neighbourhood of Newcastle-upon-Tyne have been for many years in the possession of the Museum of the Durham College of Science .
A rough analysis has been published by J. T. Dunn ( ' Transactions of the Newcastle Chemical Society , ' vol. 3 , pi .
261 ) of an apparently similar deposit , which was formed daring the autumn of 1876 in the Jane Pit at Walker .
During this short period the sectional area of the box had been reduced by the deposit from seven and a half square inches to less than half a square inch , and had been in places almost completely closed .
The deposit consisted of layers which were alternately white and brown , and was moderately soft .
Analysis showed the percentage composition to be 90 of BaS04 , 8 of SrS04 , 1 of CaS04 , the remainder consisting mainly of SiCh , AI2O3 , and Fe203 .
The water passing through the box at the time of the examination contained no trace of barium or of strontium .
Another similar deposit was found by Dr. Richardson ( ' Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1863 ) to contain about 90 per cent , of barium sulphate and 3 of calcium sulphate , the remainder consisting of silica , alumina , ferric oxide , and moisture .
Professor Lebour states the pipes which convey water from the colliery workings of the Newcastle district are frequently entirely blocked in a short space of time with deposits , amongst which barium sulphate is seldom absent , and is often the chief constituent ; and he draws attention to the fact that veins of barium sulphate are by no means uncommon in the coal measures of that district .
This deposition of barium sulphate is of interest in connexion with the discovery of the sulphate as a cementing material in sandstone near Nottingham , and as no complete analysis existed of the water-box deposits in the Durham College Museum , Professors

