184 Mr. E. Rutherford .
A Magnetic Detector of ished on more complete magnetisation , until at an induction of about 20,000 it became very small with every indication of disappearing altogether .
Soft iron and hard steel gave very similar curves , and in both the curve of hysteresis-induction cut the curve obtained from the values in an alternating field at a point just before the maximum .
The result fully bears out the deduction from the theory , and proves in addition that hysteresis is not sensibly due to anything of the nature of mechanical restraint of the molecules .
The form of the curve also gives clear indications of the three stages of molecular movement , the first stage giving a slowly rising curve , the second a straight rapid rise , and the third a straight and much more rapid descent .
Further experiments were carried out on the effect of speed of rotation .
In an alternating field the speed of reversal has been shown to be without sensible effect on the hysteresis , and theory points to this result as a natural deduction .
The above apparatus was well adapted for testing the matter , since the hysteresis per reversal could be i*ead at each instant independently of the speed .
From an extremely slow speed up to 70 revolutions per second no definite change was found in the value of the hysteresis .
At the same time several small modifications were noted , produced by rapid variations in the speed of rotation or magnetising force .
The effect lasted through many revolutions , but ultimately the same steady condition was arrived at .
At and near the maximum value the hysteresis was very variable .
The effects were much more marked in soft iron than in hard steel , as would be anticipated from the theory of their constitution .
The experiments in their verification of an untried deduction form a strong proof of the validity of the molecular theory of magnetism , and throw some light on the nature of the molecular complex and of the interactions which take place therein .
u A Magnetic Detector of Electrical Waves and some of its Applications .
" By E. Rutherford , M.A. , 1851 Exhibition Science Scholar , New Zealand University , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , F.R.S. Received June 11 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The effect of Leyden jar discharges on the magnetisation of steel needles is investigated , and it is shown that the demagnetisation of strongly magnetised steel needles offers a simple and convenient means for detecting and comparing currents of great rapidity of alternation .
Electrical Waves and some its Applications .
185 The partial demagnetisation of fine steel wires , over which is wound a small solenoid , was found to be a very sensitive means of detecting electrical waves at long distances from the vibrator .
Quite a marked effect was found at a distance of over half a mile from the vibrator .
Detectors made of very fine steel wire may be used to investigate waves along wires and free vibrating circuits of short wave-length .
Fine wire detectors are of the same order of sensitiveness as the bolometer for showing electrical oscillations in a conductor .
This detector also has the property of distinguishing between the first and second half oscillations of a discharge , and may be used for determining the damping of electrical vibrations and the resistances of the discharge circuit .
A method of experimentally determining the period of oscillation of a Leyden jar circuit by the division of rapidly alternating currents in a multiple circuit is explained .
The capacity and the self-inductance of the circuit for high frequency discharges may also be deduced , so that all the constants of a discharge circuit may be experimentally determined .
In the course of the paper the following subjects were investigated .
( 1 ) Magnetisation of Iron by High Frequency Discharges.\#151 ; The effect of the Leyden jar discharge on soft iron and steel is fully examined .
Steel needles which had been placed in a solenoid and subjected to a discharge were examined by dissolving them in acid .
It was found that there was apparently only evidence of two half oscillations in the discharge , and this effect is due to the demagnetising force exerted by the needle on itself during the discharge .
The effect of continued discharges on the demagnetisation of magnetised steel needles was investigated , and also the effect of varying the length and diameter of the steel needles .
When a discharge is sent longitudinally through a magnetised steel wire the magnetic moment of the needle is always decreased , due to the circular magnetisation of the wire by the current through it .
This " longitudinal " detector , when of thin steel wire , was found to be a sensitive means of detecting electrical oscillations of small amplitude .
Both the " longitudinal " and " solenoidal " detectors may be readily used for comparing the intensities1 of currents in multiple circuits when traversed by currents of the same period .
( 2 ) Detection of Electrical Waves at Long Distances from the Vibrator .
A compound detector needle was composed of fine steel wires and a small solenoid wound over it .
When this detector was placed in series with the wires of a receiver , the electrical oscillations set up in the circuit tended to demagnetise the magnetised detector needle .
By this method electrical waves from a Hertzian vibrator were 18(\gt ; Mr. J. S. Townsend .
detected for long distances .
An effect was obtained at over half a mile from the vibrator .
( 3 ) Waves along Wires.\#151 ; The uses of fine steel wires for examining the distribution of currents along wires are explained .
( 4 ) Damping of Oscillations.\#151 ; A method of determining the damping of discharge circuits is investigated .
The absorption of energy in spark gaps is deduced , and the apparent resistance of the air break to the discharge determined .
( 5 ) Resistances of Iron Wires.\#151 ; Quantitative results are given for the resistance of iron wires for very rapid alternations .
The value of the permeability of the different specimens is deduced , and it is shown to vary with the diameter of the wire and the intensity of the discharge .
( 6 ) Absorption of Energy by Conductors.\#151 ; The absorption of energy of iron and non-magnetic cylinders placed in solenoid through which a discharge passed were determined .
Iron cylinders were found to absorb much more enei'gy than copper ones of the same diameter , and the permeability of the iron for the discharge is deduced .
( 7 ) Determination of the Period of Oscillation of Leyden Jar Discharges.\#151 ; A method of accurately determining the period of oscillation is based on the division of rapid alternations in a multiple circuit , one arm of which is composed of a standard inductance , and the other of a variable electrolytic resistance .
The value of n , the number of oscillations per second , when the currents in the branches of the multiple circuits are equal , is , under certain conditions , given by\#151 ; R 71 " 2ttW ' where R = resistance of electrolyte to the discharge , W = value of the standard inductance .
The value of the self-inductance and capacity of the discharge circuit for very rapid oscillations may also be experimentally deduced .
" Magnetisation of Liquids .
" By JOHN S. Townsend , M.A. Dub .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 11 , \#151 ; Read June 13 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments on the coefficient of magnetisation of liquids were made with a sensitive induction balance .
Both circuits were commuted about sixteen times a second , so that very small inductances could be detected by the galvanometer in the secondary circuit .
The principle of the method consisted in balancing the increase of the

