MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
Mollusca.\#151 ; By Edgar A. Smithy F.Z.S. , Senior Assistant the Zoological Department , British Museum .
( Plate IX .
) Of the thirty-three species treated of in the following paper , and representing twenty-five genera , twenty-five wrere obtained by the Rev. A. E. Eaton , the remaining seven having been collected during the Antarctic Expedition under the command of Sir James Ross .
Of this number , 18 are new to science , and nearly all are mentioned for the first time as inhabiting this locality .
Some of the species are of very great interest , especially the new genus Neo-buccinumy the Struthiolaria , and the new genus Eatoniella among the , and of the bivalves the Saxicava , Bissarca , and the magnificent Solenellay by far the largest known species of that genus .
The Malacological fauna resembles generally that of the Ealkland Islands and South Patagonia .
More than half of the genera and seven or eight of the species found at Kerguelen Island are known to occur at those localities , and further research will probably discover a still greater number of genera and species to be common to these two , longitudinally , so widely separated localities .
With respect to their latitudes the difference is unimportant , since they both range between 49 ' and 54 ' S. lat. As the Cape of Good Hope , Tasmania , and South West Australia , are the nearest points of mainland , it might be expected that some resemblance to the fauna of those countries might be observable .
However , it is not so , as far as our present knowledge extends .
Many of the shells from Kerguelen Island have the generally unattractive appearance as regards coloration which so frequently obtains in species found in cold climates .
Indeed , some of them seem to be southern representatives of boreal types .
The Neobuccinum3 Trophony , Yoldia , Radula , and Doris , are remarkable instances of similarity to northern forms .
The following table shows the great affinity which exists in the fauna of South Patagonia and Kerguelen Island .
Only those species are quoted from Patagonia which are identical with or nearly allied to Kerguelen forms , and a blank signifies that the genus has not yet been recorded from there .
Genera .
Patagonian Species .
Kerguelen Species .
Neobuccinum Trophon T. pliilippianus , N. eatoni , Sm .
T. albolabratus , Sm .
Struthiolaria Purpura Admete ( \#151 ; ?
) Littorina Hydrobia 99 Eatoniella Skenea Rissoa -Scissurella -Trocbus ( Photinula ) T. ( P. ) expansus , Sowb .
S. mirabilis , Sm .
P. striata , Martyn , ( American Exp. ) A. ( \#151 ; ?
) limnseseformis , Sm .
L. seto.sa , Sm .
H. pumilio , Sm .
H. caliginosa , Gould .
E. kerguelenensis , Sm .
E. caliginosa , Sm .
E. subrufescens , S S. subcanaliculata , R. kergueleni , Sm .
S. supraplicata , Sm .
T. ( P. ) expansus , Sowb .
Patella P. aenea , Martyn - - - P. fuegiensis , Reeve P. kerguelenensis , Sm .
\#187 ; P. fuegiensis , Rve .
99 P. mytilina , Gmeli P. mytilina , Gmel .
Siphonaria - S. magellanica , Philippi - S. redimiculum , Rve .
Hemiarthrum Doris -Helix -Saxicava S. antarctica , Philippi H. setulosum , Cpr .
( Amer .
Exp. ) D. tuberculata , Cuv .
H. hookeri , Reeve .
S. bisulcata , Sm .
Kellia - K. miliaris , Philippi K. consanguinea , S Lepton Area ( Lissarca ) -Yoldia Y. woodwardi , Hanley - L. parasiticum , Dali .
S. rubro-fusca , Sm .
Y. subsequilateralis , Sm .
Solenella S. magellanica , Smith S. gigantea , Sm .
Mytilus M. magellanicus , Chemnitz M. magellanicus , Chem. 99 Modiolarca - M. edulis , L.- M. edulis , L. M. trapezina , Lamarck - M. trapezina , Lamarck .
99 M. exilis , 11 .
and Adams - M. exilis , 11 .
and A. Ad .
99 M. pusilla , Gould - M. minuta , Dull .
99 M. pusilla , Gould M. pusilla , Gld .
Radula R. pygmsea , Philippi R. pygmsea , Phil. Waldheimia - W. dilatata , Lamarck W. dilatata , Lamarck .
CEPHALOPODA .
[ In the Bull .
TJ .
S. Nat. Mus. 1876 , No. iii .
, p. 42 , Dr. Kidder records finding a species of Octopus too much mutilated for identification .
] GASTROPODA .
Neobuccinum , nov .
Testa 'hucciniformis ; canalis latus , brevis ; operculum ovatiuseulum , ( nucleo vix terminali ) , ad marginem prope nucleum leviter sinuatum , concentrice lineis incrementi curvatis striatum .
This genus is allied to JBuccinopsis , but differs from it somewhat in the dentition of the animal , and with regard to the operculum .
In JBuccinopsis the nucleus of the operculum is terminal , but in the present genus it is situated on the inner side about one-tenth of the entire length from the MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
extremity , and just at this point the outline is interrupted by a slight sinus .
It* consists of one whorl , which gradually increases by concentric layers well defined by the lines of growth , and the inferior surface is somewhat thickened along the outer edge , that is , that opposite the nucleus .
Neobuccinum eatoni .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 1 .
) Buccinopsis Eatoni , Smith , Annals and Mag. Not .
Hist. Julyl , 1875 , xvi .
, p. 68 .
Testa elongato-ovata , turrita , tenuis , lsevis , pallide livido-fuscescens , baud nitens ; anfractus 6 ?
( apice fracto ) , reliqui 4 perconvexi , lent crescentes , lseves , lineis incrementi flexuosis insculpti , sutura profunda , fere canaliculata sejuncti ; apertura ovata , longitudinis totius circiter -J sequans ; columella lsevis , polita , in medio leviter areuata , basin versus obliqua ; canalis latissimus , perbrevis , vix recurvus ; labrum simplex , tenue .
Operculum ovatum , concentrice plicato-striatum , nucleo laterali , vix terminali .
Long. 56 mill .
, diam. 27 ; apertura long .
27 mill .
, diam. 14 .
Animal ( in spirit ) uniformly buff colour ; foot broad in front , and somewhat truncated , narrowed posteriorly ; head of moderate size , furnished with two rather short tentacles not adjacent at their base ; eyes situated on prominences on the outer side of the tentacles towards their bases ; proboscis very long ; siphonal expansion of the mantle thick , of medium length .
Lingual ribbon very long ; teeth in three series , central ( rachidian ) tooth tricus-pidate , prongs straight , nearly equal in size , the central one a little the longest ; lateral teeth ( uncini ) tricuspidate also , prongs hooked , outer one the largest , the inner rather smaller , the median very much smaller still and close to the latter .
Hab.\#151 ; Obtained in shrimp pots and by dredging in 3-7 fathoms at ltoyal Sound and Swain 's Bay .
This remarkable species is chiefly characterized by its smooth convex whorls which are destitute of all sculpture and ornamentation , with the exception of the lines of growth .
The suture is particularly deep , almost channelled .
Around the short cauda of the body-whorl , from a little below the middle of the columella , runs a carination ( as in certain species of Bullia ) , which joins the basal channel near the labrum .
Since publishing the description of the shell of this species , I have examined the animal , and find that its dentition , which bears a close resemblance to that of Neptunea dilatata ( Troschel , Gebiss der Schnecken , ii .
, 1868 ) , does not agree exactly with that of Buccinopsis .
The tongue of the latter is described by Alder as having " a single plain and slightly curved tooth on each side , and a very thin non- " denticulated plate in the centre .
" This difference in the odontophore , and the dissimilarity of the opercula , are , I think , sufficient to entitle the present species to generic rank .
Trophon albolabratus .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 2 .
) Trophon albolabratus , Smith , Annals \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
, p. 68 .
Testa oyato-fusiformis , tnrrita , alba ; anfractns 6 , primi duo ( nucleus ) lseves , cseteri convexi , liris spiralibus ( in anfr .
superioribus 4-5 , in ultimo circiter 13 ) sequalibus subaequidistantibus cincti , et lamellis foliaceis numerosis subconfertis et prominentibus instructi ; apertura superne ovalis , infra in canalem prolongata , intus saturate fusca , longitudinis testae eirciter f aequans ; labrum intus sub-late albo marginatum , leviter expansum ; columella in medio parum arcuata , basi obliqua , callo inferne crassiusculo , superne tenui labroque juncto induta , caeruleo-alba , margin interno fusca ; regio umbilici leviter rimata ; canalis angustus , obliquus , paululum recurvus , modice elongatus .
Operculum flavo-corneum .
Long. 40 mill .
, diam. 18 ; apertura long .
24 mill .
, diam. 11 .
Animal ( in spirit ) uniformly pale buff ; foot rather truncate in front and somewhat acuminated posteriorly ; head small ; tentacles adjacent at their base , not very long ( contracted ?
) , much thicker below than above the eyes , which are situated on prominences towards their base .
Teeth of lingual ribbon in three series ; laterals consisting of a single spine-like tooth longer than the others ; racbidian teeth in three rows , small , spine-like , the two outer rather smaller than the central one .
Hctb.\#151 ; On rocks just below low-tide mark in Swain 's Bay and Boyal Sound ; frequent .
The nearest ally of this species appears to he T. philippianus of Dunker , which is found in the Straits of Magellan , at Cape Horn , and the Falkland Islands .
Prom this species it differs in having the whorls rounded above , and not flattened or excavated , the penultimate is larger and more elevated , the body-whorl is more inflated below the middle and not produced into such an elongated cauda , and the canal is shorter and the aperture rather larger , the longitudinal lamellae are more prominent and not nearly so numerous .
Struthiolaria mirabilis .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 3 .
) Struthiolaria mirabilisy Smith , Annals \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , July 1st , 1875 , p. 67 .
Struthiolaria costulata , Martens Bericlit G-esellscli .
Naturforsch .
Preunde , Berlin ( July 24th , 1875 , teste Martens in litt .
) , p. 66 .
Testa ovata , tenuis , imperforata , leviter turrita , alba , epidermide tenuissima fugaci olivaceo-alba amicta ; anfractus 6J , convexiusculi , superne anguste planulati , lent accrescentes , longitudinaliter oblique arcuatimque crebre plicati ( plicis inferne MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
ad suturam vix attingentibus ) ; liris spiralibus prominentibus supra plicas undulatis ( in anfr .
superioribus 7-8 , in ultimo circiter 22 , illis infra medium simplicibus ) succincti ; apertura longitudinis totius circiter f- aequans ; columella arcuata .
Operculum corneum unguiculatum , subtus costis duabus a nucleo unguiformi divergentibus munitum , superne in medio longitudinaliter unisulcatum , concentrice striatum .
Long. 42 mill .
, diam. 22 .
Proboscis conical , rather compressed and annulated ; tentacles two , short , tapering , situated at the base of the proboscis ; eyes small , placed on very slight prominences very near the base of the tentacles ; foot small , somewhat truncate in front and acuminate posteriorly ; opereuligerous lobe nearly terminal , with the operculum placed transversely , the nucleus to the left when viewing the lobe , foot downwards .
Teeth \#151 ; ?
The radula I believe has been described by Shacke from specimens obtained by the German expedition .
Sab.\#151 ; Dredged at a depth of 3-7 fathoms at Swain 's Bay .
But a single specimen of this very remarkable shell was obtained by Mr. Eaton .
This unfortunately has the labrum so much broken away , that it is impossible to describe the form of the aperture and the nature of the basal channel .
However , the animal and operculum agree in all respects externally with ; and although the shell has more the general aspect of , there can be no doubt of its true location .
The species which compose this genus are strong thick shells ; this , on the contrary , is particularly fragile , and clothed with a very thin deciduous epidermis .
The name given to this species by Yon Martens was first announced at a meeting of the " Gesellschaft naturforsehender Freunde zu Berlin " on the 15tli of June 1875 .
Dr. Martens informs me in a letter dated December 22nd , 1876 , that the report of this meeting , in which a brief description is given of the species ( p. 66 ) , was published on July 24th , 1875 , which was unusually late , as generally the report ought to be issued before the next meeting , which was July the 20tli .
At any rate the name mirabilis would have priority as it was published on July 1st , and the manuscript was in the printer 's hands almost a month before that date .
[ Purpura striata , Dali , Bull .
U.S. Nat. Mus. iii .
, p. 43 .
Buccinum striatum , Martyn .
Two specimens probably of this species were obtained by Dr. Kidder .
Sab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island ( Kidder ) ; New Zealand ( Martyn ) .
] Admete ( \#151 ; ?
) limnseseformis , sp. hoy .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 4 .
) Testa tenuissima , subdiapliana , lsevis , parum nitens , vitreo-alba ; anfractus 3 , primi duo parvi , convexiuusculi , ultimus amplissimus , convexus ; sutura simplex , aliquanto profunda ; apertura ovata , superne pauhihim acuminata , longitudine testae totius circiter f rnquans ; columella leviter obliqua , vix arcuata , inferne oblique et subabrupte truncata , superne callo tenuissimo , super anfractum expanso , labro juncta ; labrum simplex , tenue .
Long. 2J mill .
Liam .
1\ .
Sab.\#151 ; On Sea-weed and Polyzoa in Swain 's Bay at a depth of 4-5 fathoms .
This species has the appearance of a minute with the columella truncated a little below the middle .
No sculpture is visible under a simple lens , but by the aid of the microscope very fine lines of increment are discernible .
Although this is a very curious form for an Admete , I am not acquainted with any other genus which it more resembles .
The character of the truncation of the columella is similar , and the absence of an operculum is also congeneric .
Prom the fewness of the whorls and the thinness of the shell it may be conjectured to be but the young of some larger species .
This may be the case , but at present I am unable to identify it as the fry of any genus with which I am acquainted .
Littorina setosa .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 6 .
) Littorina setosa , Smith , Annals \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. July 1875 , xvi .
, p. 69 .
Testa imperforata , ovato-turrita , tenuis , pallide rosea , circa medium anfractuum linea spirali rufa cincta , epidermide fugaci villosa vel setosa olivacea induta ; anfractus 6 , convexi , superne aliquanto tabulati , sutura profundiuscula discreti , ubique spiraliter et oblique minute punctato-striati ; apertura subquadrato-circularis , longi-tudinis totius -J sequans ; columella perparum arcuata , ad basin leviter patula ; labrum simplex .
Operculum paucispirale , ovatum , superne acuminatum , tenu-issimum , flavocorneum .
Long. 14 mill .
, diam. 8-J ; apertura long .
7 mill .
, diam. 5 .
Animal ( in spirit ) small , pinkish yellow , the tentacles and top of the proboscis stained with purplisli-black ; tentacles short and thick ; eyes at the tips of slender peduncles which arise from the outer bases of the tentacles ; foot oblong , rounded in front and rather more so behind .
Sab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay in 3-4 fathoms , at the extremity of the promontory farthest from Boyal Sound and nearest to Mt .
Boss , two or three miles within the entrance of the bay .
MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
The epidermis of the shell of this species is very deciduous and is minutely hairy , the hairs being disposed in oblique series corresponding with the lines of growth .
Hydrobia caliginosa .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 8 .
) Littorina caliginosa , Gould , Wilkes ' Explor .
Exped .
1852 , p. 198 , Atlas fig. 240 .
Testa ovato-conica , angustissime vel vix rimata , tenuis , fusca , labrum versus pallidior ; anfractus 5 convexi , lseves , striis incrementi obliquis tenuiter insculpti , sutura distincta , leviter obliqua , sejuncti ; anfr .
ultimus amplus ; apertura ovatiuscula , longitudinis totius circiter \ sequans ; labrum tenue ad basin parum patulum ; columella obliqua , minim ( nisi prope basin ) arcuata , incrassata , calloque tenui labro juncta ; rima angustissima , interdum columella omnino obtecta .
Long. 4| mill .
Diam. 2-J .
Operculum corneum , tenuissimum , flavescens , paucispirale , nucleo paululum a margin inferiori remoto , subtus marginibus anfractuum externis carinatis .
Sab.\#151 ; Kerguelen 's Island .
Terra del Euego { Gould ) .
The brown colour of this species is produced probably by the dried remains of the animal within the shell , and could these be removed the whole of the structure would have the same horny appearance as the labrum presents .
Nearly all specimens have the two or three uppermost whorls more or less eroded .
The aperture oblique , somewhat ovate in form , being rather broader inferiorly than above , and faintly patulate on the basal margin .
The columella is slightly thickened and reflexed , at times wholly concealing the extremely narrow umbilical fissure .
The operculum is very thin , consists of about two and a half very rapidly increasing volutions , is finely striated by the incremental lines , and the nucleus is situated at about one-third the entire length from the lower end and on the underside , the outer margin of the whorls next the suture is raised or keeled .
Hydrobia pumilio , nov .
( Plate .
IX .
, fig. 7 .
) Testa depresso-globosa , minuta , anguste rimata , purpureo-fusca ; anfractus 2 , rapidissime accrescentes , lineis incrementi tenuissime striati , primus convexiusculus , vix super ultimum elatus , ultimus maximus , perconvexus ; sutura simplex , distincta ; apertura subcircularis , amplissima , longitudine tota testae paulo minor ; peristoma vix continuum , sed marginibus callo tenuissimo conjunctis , pallidum , rirnam ^versus leviter incrassatum ; operculum corneum flavescens , unispirale , lent crescens , nucleo fere centrale .
Liam .
max .
1 mill .
Diam. min. f ; axis 1 .
Sab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay .
Although this species is so minute , the shells do not appear to be very young .
In one example the last whorl slightly descends near the peristome , which cannot strictly be called continuous , the two extremities being united by a very thin callous deposit on the body whorl .
The nuclear portion of the single whorl which constitutes the operculum appears to be convex .
This species differs from normal Hydrobia , whose spire is generally rather elevated , in having the apex but very slightly exserted above the last whorl , and consequently the contour of the spire is unusually convex .
Eatoniella , Dali .
Eatonia , Smith , Ann. and Mag. Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
p. 70 ( name preoccupied ) .
j Eatoniella , Dali , Bulletin TJ .
S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
p. 42 .
Testa formee rissoidem ; apertura subcircularis ; peristoma simplex , continuum , margin labrali haud incrassatum .
Operculum ovatum , pauci- vel unispirale , nucleo subterminali a latere columellari paululum remoto , subtus ossiculo prominenti a nucleo exsurgente et marginem columellarem versus directo munita .
There are two genera which have affinity to the present one\#151 ; Jeffreysia and Rissoina .
With the former it agrees in the form and character of the aperture , but differs in having the nucleus of the operculum not lateral , but situated within the margin and towards the lower end .
It agrees in this respect with Rissoina ( see Adams , " Genera of Decent Mollusca , " vol. iii .
pi .
35 .
f. 1 , a \amp ; 6 ) , but is distinguished from that genus by the absence of the slight basal channel of the aperture and the lack of any incrassation to the labrum .
The operculum of Jeffreysia is composed of concentric layers ( as in commencing from a nucleus situated on the margin of the inner or columellar side ; and the ossicle or rib proceeds " from the nucleus in the direction of the outer margin " ( Jeffreys , " Brit. Conch .
" iv .
p. 58 ; in the figure , l. c. pi .
1 .
f. 3 , it is apparently the reverse ) .
In JEatoniella the operculum is spiral , consisting of one or more whorls , the nucleus is situated within the margin and about one fourth the entire length from the lower end , and the ossicle is directed towards the inner margin .
The name originally given by me to this genus having been preoccupied , has been modified to that in use , by Mr. Dali .
Eatoniella kerguelenensis .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 10 .
) Eatonia kerguelenensis , Smith , Annals and Mag. Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
July , p. 70 ; Eatoniella kerguelenensis , Dali , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. No. iii .
p. 42 .
Testa ovato-conica , tenuis , olivaceo-nigrescens , labrum versus pallidior semi-pellucida , vix rimata ; anfractus 6 , convexi , lseves , parum nitidi , lineis incrementi striati , sutura simplici sejuncti ; apertura fere circularis , longitudinis totius sequans ; peristoma simplex , continuum , ad regionem umbilicalem leviter incrassatum et vix reflexum .
Long. 3 mill .
, diam. If .
MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
Operculum ovatum , intus concayum , nucleo posterior non tamen terminali , crassiusculum , super marginem externum lira incrassatum , unispirale , supra incre-menti lineis yalde striatum , infra ossiculo elongato a nucleo exsurgente munitum .
Sab.\#151 ; On a sponge ( Tethya antarctica ) , Boyal Sound , in 40 fathoms .
This species was found in company with It is of a very different form , the spire being conical , the last whorl shorter and a trifle broader ; and it also differs in colour .
In general aspect it very much resembles several species of Sydrobia ; hut the operculum at once distinguishes it .
# Eatoniella caliginosa .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 9 .
) Eatonia caliginosa , Smith , Annals and Mag. N. H. 1875 , xvi .
July , p. 71 .
Eatoniella caliginosa , Dali , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. , No. iii .
43 .
Testa ovata , modice tenuis , nigra , vix rimata ; anfractus 4-J , convexi , heves , vix nitidi , sutura simplici discreti , lineis incrementi obsolete striati : apertura fere circularis , superne paululum acuminata , longitudinis totius fere sequans ; peristoma continuum , levissime incrassatum , ad regionem umbilicalem albidum , ali-quanto reflexum , et basin versus parum effusum .
Long. 2 mill .
, diam. 1 .
Operculum ei E. kerguelenensis fere simile .
Sab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay .
Pound with the preceding species .
This minute shell , with a simple style of sculpture , is of a very black olive-colour , with a nearly circular aperture , the peritreme of which is black outwardly , and whitish in the columellar region .
Eatoniella subrufescens .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 11 .
) Eatonia subrufescens , Smith , Annals and Mag. N. H. 1875 , xvi .
July , p. 71 .
Testa ovata , leviter conica , tenuis , semidiaphana , vix rimata , subrufescens , labrum versus alhida ; anfractus 4| , lent accrescentes , convexi , sutura subprofunda divisi , laeves nisi striis incrementi tenuiter sculpti ; apertura subcircularis , longitudinis testae ^ paulo superans ; peristoma continuum , ad marginem columcllarem lcviter incrassatum et reflexum , rimam umbilicalem indistinctam effingens .
Operculum ei E. kerguelenensis suhsimile , ossiculo tamen fortissimo munitum .
Long. \\ mill .
, diam. f. Sab.\#151 ; Boyal Sound , on a sponge ( Tethya ) at a depth of 7 fathoms .
The reddish colour of the upper whorls is attributable to the dried remains of the inhabitant .
Skenea subcanalicuiata .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 15 .
) Skenea subcanaliculata , Smith , Annals and Mag. Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
, p. 71 .
Testa minuta , orbiculata , depressa , tenuis , subdiaphana , albida , late profundeque umbilieata ; spira minim elevata ; anfractus 3^ , sublente accrescentes , perconvexi , ad suturam valde incurvati , fere canaliculati , lseves nisi striis incrementi levissime insculpti ; apertura subcircularis , leviter obliqua ; peristoma continuum , simplex .
Operculum subcirculare , paucispirale , nucleo subcentrali .
Diam. max .
1^ mill .
, diam. min. 1 , alt .
Hab \#151 ; Kerguelen Island .
Royal Sound , on Tethya with Eatoniella , in 7 faths .
Some specimens are of a faint reddish colour in the upper whorls ; but this may be from the dried animal within .
The whorls are very much incurved at the suture , so much so that almost a channel is produced .
Rissoa kergueleni .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 12 .
) Rissoa kergueleni , Smith , Annals and Mag. Not .
Hist : xvi .
1875 , p. 69 .
Testa ovata , semipellucida , vitrea vel lactea , ad apicem pallide rubescens , tenuis , imperforata ; anfractus 5 , convexi , politi , sutura angustissime marginata divisi ; apex obtusus ; * apertura ovata , superne acuminata , longitudinis totius adsequans ; peristoma continuum , leviter incrassatum et expansum .
Operculum paucispirale , corneum , simplex .
Long. 3 mill .
, diam. 1^ .
Rah.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay , on a sponge ( Tethya ) at 7 fathoms depth .
This pretty species is of a glassy texture , sometimes streaked longitudinally with opaque white .
The whorls are divided by a narrowly margined suture , below which there is a faint depression ; the first two form an obtuse apex , and the penultimate is large .
Scissurella supraplicata .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 5 , 5a .
) Scissurella supraplicata , Smith , Annals and Mag. N. H. 1875 , xvi .
, p. 72 .
Testa heliciformis , spira brevi , anguste perforata , tenuis , semipellucida , alba , epidermide caduca crassiuscula pallide olivacea amicta ; anfractus 3 , primus---------------- ?
( abruptus ) , secundus convexiusculus , superne aliquanto planulatus et radiatim arcuate plicatus , ultimus magnus , paululum supra medium carina duplici tenui ( cum scissura continua ) succinctus , supra carinam radiatim arcuate plicatus , infra earn lineis incrementi striatus ; apertura maxima , irregulariter circularis , ad marginem basalem levissime expansa ; peristoma continuum , scissura profunda angusta .
Operculum corneum , ----------- ?
Hiam .
max .
mill .
, diam. min. 1 , alt .
1 .
Rab.~Swain 's Bay .
The deep narrow slit in the lip is situated between the two threadlike keels , as is the case in several other species .
The operculum is too far within the aperture to allow of examination .
MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
Trochus ( Photinula ) expansus .
Margarita expansa , Sowerby , Concliol .
Ulus .
f. 16 and 17 .
Photina expansa , H. and A. Adams , Proc. Zool. Soc. 1851 , p. 191 .
Photinula expansa , H. and A. Adams , Genera Pec .
Shells , i. , p. 428 .
Trochus ( Margarita ) hit Hi , Porbes , Proc. Zool. Soc. 1850 , p. 272 , plate 11 , fig. 10 .
The shells of this species are generally of a pale pinkish colour , varying to reddish brown , at times banded with faint reddish lines , and some specimens which have the dried remains of the animal in them are stained with a greenish tint .
The whorls are five in number , convex , and the last is slightly depressed close to the suture .
They are devoid of sculpture , excepting the fine striations of growth .
The aperture is large , oblique , and roundly subquadrate ; the columella is very oblique , straightish in the middle , and in the umbilical region it is excavated rather deeply .
The interior of the aperture is beautifully iridescent .
Animal with the pedal disk somewhat rounded in front , narrowed and acuminated posteriorly ; head provided with two subulate ( apparently not very elongate ) tentacles ; eyes placed at the tips of two short peduncles on the outside of the tentacles , between which , on the frontal region , are two compressed lobes ; the buccal regions produced into largish compressed lobes ; the edge of the mantle , on the right side , furnished with four distant elongate cirri , and close to the neck with a large flattened lobe ; on the left side are four corresponding cirri , but , in place of the lobe , three small tentacular filaments .
Odontopliore six mill , in length ; dentition similar in arrangement to that of Trochus ( ) cineraria , as figured in Gray 's Guide to Mollusca , 1857 , p. 152 , consisting of 11 rachidian teeth , the central one of which is largest , while the others on either side gradually diminish in size as they approach it , and very numerous slender contiguous lateral teeth ( uncini ) .
Mob.\#151 ; Royal Sound and Swain 's Bay , common ; dredged in 3-5 faths .
The above description shows that the animal of Photinula is truly Trochoid .
The circumstance of the lappet on the right side towards the neck being replaced on the left by three small filaments in this species is only a specific character , for in Phot , ccerulescens the lappets on each side are similar .
All the specimens of this species ( P. expansa ) in the British Museum are from the Falkland Islands , and this appears to be the first record of its existence at Kerguelen Island .
The nearest ally is P. violacea , King , with which Margarita magellanica , Hombron and Jacquinot , is synonymous .
Indeed the relationship is so close that it becomes questionable whether there is any distinction other than variation would afford .
Patella ( Patinella ) kerguelenensis , sp. nov .
( Plate IX .
, figs. 13 , 13a .
) Patella ferruginea , Sowerby MS .
in Mus. Cuming , Reeve Con .
Icon .
, viii .
, sp. 40 .
( Nec P.ferruginea , Gm .
, nec P. ferruginea , Sowerby , Gen. of Shells , fig. 4 .
) JPatinella magellanica , Dali , American Journ. Conch .
1871 , vi .
, p. 273 ; Bulletin U.S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
, p. 43 ( nec P. magellanica , Gmel .
) .
Testa ovalis , antice paululum angustata , convexe satis elevata , apice prominenti beneque ante verso prsesertim in exemplis junioribus , late radiatim costata , costis parum prominentibus , et ssepe aliis minoribus interjectis , lineis incrementi concen-tricis undulatis eleganter crebreque insculpta ; extus coeruleo-cinerea , costis ssepis-sime saturatioribus , et apicem versus in exemplis detritis ferruginea ; intus jucunde seneo-fuscescens , plerumque marginem versus pallidior ( hac parum undulata ) ; cicatrix muscularis perspicua .
Long , ( exempl .
max .
) 82 mill .
, lat. 70 , alt .
45 .
The above description is based upon the examination of about twenty specimens .
Animal ( in spirit ) with the sole of the foot greenish-ash colour , inky-black on the sides , encircled around the middle by a bluntly serrated frill which is interrupted in front of the head ; branchiae pale buff-colour ; margin of the mantle blackish , furnished with alternately small and smaller cirri along the edge , the smaller black ; head and tentacles black ; lips pale buff .
Lingual ribbon very long and narrow ; teeth not hooked , in diverging pairs ; median pair two-pronged , the inner prong much the larger , and resembling in form a flat spear-head ; lateral pairs alternate with the median pairs , four-pronged , the second prong from the centre and the outermost considerably larger than the other two , which are of nearly equal size , the innermost however rather the larger .
Sab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay usually on rocks about 1 fathom below the surface ; but one specimen was also obtained at the extreme verge of low water .
Dead shells were occasionally found on some of the islands scattered over the recreation grounds of Cormorants and Gulls ( Eaton ) ; also Loyal Sound ( Kidder ) .
The figure in the Con .
Icon , of this species ( as P. is very good as regards form , but does not show the prominent apex , and only represents a small specimen .
This name adopted by Iteeve being preoccupied by Gmelin cannot be retained , and consequently I have substituted for it , as in all probability the species is exclusively indigenous to Kerguelen Island .
The P. , Gmelin , founded on a figure in Martini 's Conchylien Cabinet , I. , pi .
viii .
, fig. 66 , is well refigured by fteeve ( Con .
Icon , viii .
, f. 14a-b ) under the name of P. plicata , which is the first adjective in Martini 's brief description .
Gmelin 's name must therefore be retained for the same species .
The P. ferruginea , var .
( no author mentioned ) figured by Sowerby in his Genera of Decent and Eossil Shells , tig .
4 , is one of the endless varieties of P. cenea , Martyn .
Erom this species P. kerguelenensis differs in having the shell less prominently costated , differently coloured , and in the apex being very prominent and much curved over so as to give it a capuliform appearance , a character constant in all specimens , young and old , elevated or depressed ; it also differs in the coloration of the animal .
Now in some depressed varieties of P. cenea the apex is somewhat MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
179 curved over , but it is not prominent and has not the appearance of an umbo , as exhibited by the apex of P. kerguelenensis .
In the determining of the present species , having had occasion to examine the Patagonia shell , I will give the results of my investigation .
The synonymy is as follows :\#151 ; Patella ( Patinella ) aenea .
Patella ceneai Martyn , Universal Conch .
( 1784 ) , I. , f. 17 ; Reeve , Con .
Icon , viii .
, f. 9a-b .
) var .
= Patella magellanica , Gmelin , Syst. Not .
1789 , p. 3703 ; Martini , Con .
Cab .
i. , f. 40a-b ; Reeve , Con .
Icon , viii .
, f. 19a-b .
Patinella magellanica , Dali , Annals \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1871 , vii .
, p. 289 .
var .
= Patella deaurita , Gmelin , S. N. , p. 3719 ; Chemnitz , Con .
Cab .
x. , f. 1616 .
var .
= Patella cynibularia , Delessert ( non Lamarck ) , Recueil Coq .
Lamk .
pi .
xxiii .
, f. 8a-c .
var.= Patella delesserti , Philippi , Abbild .
\amp ; Beschreib .
Conch , iii .
, p. 9 , pi .
1 , f. 5a-b ; \#151 ; ?
Dali , Bull .
U.S. Mus. 1876 , iii .
, p. 44 .
var .
= Patella varicosa , Reeve , 1 .
c. , f. 21a-c .
; = Patella , Reeve , f. 41a-b .
; = Patella venosa , Reeve , f. 18a-c .
; = Patella , Reeve , f. 98a-b .
On comparison of all the figures above quoted the conclusion at which I have arrived , namely , that they represent but varieties of this Protean species , may be somewhat startling , but the large series ( about 180 specimens ) before me fully justifies the result .
The apex is found in all positions from the very centre almost to the margin of the shell ; every degree of coarseness or fineness of the costation exists , some ribs being very rugose and others only slightly so or quite smooth , some broad and others much finer .
The typical form is oval , slightly narrowed in front and subdepressed ; in these respects agree ccrea proper , and the varieties , , ferruginea ( Sow .
non Gmel .
) , and delesserti .
The varieties , tosa , venosa , and chiloensis are more roundly oval and usually more elevated .
The form figured by Delessert as P. cymbula , of which there are several specimens in the British Museum , is remarkable for its white colour and the strongly contrasting dark coppery brown scutum , which is well defined by the muscular scar .
In P. varicosa the ribs are described by Reeve as " nearly obsolete , " in venosa as " more or less obsolete with age , " in chiloensis as " worn , nearly obsolete .
" Now their obsoleteness is occasioned merely by erosion , for the types of these species are all in an extremely worn condition , and it is evident by carefully examining the margins of the shells where they are least abraded , that the ribs have existed as in normal specimens .
The animals ( in spirit ) of different varieties do not offer any distinctive characters .
The freshest are of a buff colour , with the sole of the foot olive , and the chief tentacular cirri ( those which usually mark the number of principal ribs z 2 on the shell ) on the edge of the mantle are black .
Tentacles buff , with a black spot on the upper surface near the tips .
A frill similar to that of encircles the foot .
Patella ( Patinella ) fuegiensis .
( Plate IX .
, figs. 14 , 14a .
) Patella fuegiensis , Reeve , Conchol .
Iconica , viii .
, sp. 78 .
The description given by Reeve is very good , hut he does not lay sufficient stress upon the beautiful raised concentric ridges .
He calls them striae , which term scarcely gives the idea of thread-like lirations such as these .
They are very closely packed and undulate very prettily on and between the numerous radiating ribs .
The figure , except in outline and the position of the apex , gives but a poor idea of this beautifully sculptured Patella .
It represents the number of ribs at about forty , whereas there are usually about sixty .
The specimens from Kerguelen 's Island are a trifle narrower and much more depressed than examples from the Ealkland Islands ; in fact , it is only near the apex that they are at all raised , and towards the margin they are up-turned , so that the dorsal surface is concave , and this form of the shell certainly prevents the animal from entirely concealing itself when adhering to a flat surface .
But this peculiarity of form only exists in adult specimens , for several small ones are like ordinary species in this respect .
The radiating ribs are almost obsolete in the flat examples , but the undulating concentric lirations , which are more prominent and farther apart than in the type form of the species , define their position ; in young shells they are more pronounced .
Colour generally uniformly purplish slate , with the apical region ferrugineous ; interior similarly tinted , but rather more deeply .
One shell has a white border .
They are all very thin and fragile , and the edge is very liable to break off in a line with the concentric raised lines of growth .
The animal has the sides and sole of the foot greenish-grey , the edge of the mantle and gills pale buff , the tentacular filaments on the margin of the mantle blackish except at their tips , tentacles short and thick , pale buff , with a black spot above .
The frill-like expansion of the mantle , similar to that of P. and P. lenensis , is a little above its edge , is bluntly serrated , and interrupted beneath the head .
Teeth of the lingual ribbon slightly hooked , in pairs , scarcely diverging ; the central pairs two-pronged , the inner prong much the larger , spear-head shaped ; the lateral pairs alternating with the central ones are four-pronged , the innermost prong smallest , the next two subequal , and the outside one situated nearly at right angles to the rest of the tooth , about the same size or a trifle larger .
Hab.\#151 ; Royal Sound and Swain 's Bay , everywhere very common on the submerged fronds of long floating kelp ( Macroeysti ) bordering the shore .
MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
Patella ( Nacella ) mytilina .
Patella mytilina , Gmelin , Syst. Not .
p. 3698 .
Patella conchacea , Gmelin .
1 .
c. p. 3708 .
Nacella mytiloides , Schumacher , Syst. Verse Testae , p. 179 .
Patella cymbularia , Lamk .
Anim .
S. Vert. ed. 1 , vol. yi .
, p. 335 ; ed. 2 , vol. vii .
, p. 541 ; Philippi , Abbild .
\amp ; Beschr .
iii .
, p. 1 , f. 2 .
Patella cymbium , Phil. Archiv .
Naturgescli .
1845 , p. 60 ; Abbild .
p. 7 .
Nacella mytilina , Gmel .
, Dali , Annals \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1871 , vii .
, p. 289 .
Nacella cymbularia , Lamk .
, Adams Genera Bee .
Mol. i. , p. 467 .
Var. = Patella vitrea , Phil. 1 .
c. p. 9 , pi .
i. , f. 4 a , b. Yar .
= Patella hyalina , Phil. 1 .
c. p. 8 .
, pi .
i. , f. 3 a , b. ( Not .
Patella cymbularia , Delessert , Becueil .
Coq .
Lamk .
pi .
23 , f. 8 a-c , which is one of the many varieties of Patella cenea , Martyn .
) On carefully examining a large series of specimens ( about 40 ) of this species , I can arrive at no other conclusion than that the two forms described by Philippi , above quoted , are hut variations of Gmelin 's shell .
The principal difference is in the position of the apex .
In a long series every position is found ; in some shells it is quite marginal or nearly so hyalina ) ; in others it is slightly more remote from the margin , and again still more so , until it takes that position which it occupies in the typical mytilina .
The character of the sculpture varies to no material extent .
All examples are more or less radiately costated , sometimes conspicuously , and at other times almost obsoletely , the crenula-tion or undulation of the margin varying in coarseness with the strength or feebleness of this costation .
The concentric lines of growth are of the same general nature in every specimen , and all possess minute scratch-like striation ( visible only under a lens ) radiating irregularly from the apex .
The form of the marginal outline is considerably altered in those specimens whose apex is quite marginal , being considerably narrowed at the apical end and somewhat acuminated .
The coloration varies in shells of similar form , some being of a general greyish tint , varied at intervals with darker concentric rings and often a few radiating palish stripes on the ribs .
Others are uniformly yellowish-brown , others pale luteous broadly striped with black , and finally , others are of a uniform pale horny colour ; hut all have the apex cupreous .
The six Kerguelen specimens obtained by Mr. Eaton are uniform in shape , oval , hut rather acuminate towards the apex , which is only slightly removed from the margin , rather depressed , more so than Magellan specimens .
They are of a brownish-red colour for the most part , and gradually blend into olive towards the margin , coppery within .
Thus it will he seen that they only differ from P. mytilina proper , in form somewhat and coloration .
Animal similar to that of P. kerguelenensis .
J\#163 ; ab.\#151 ; On young and short Macrocystis at a depth of two fathoms in Swain 's Bay , at the end of the same promontory as Littorina setosa .
Prom the descriptions of the four preceding species of it will he observed that the animals offer no particular differences exteriorly except in coloration .
In all " a scalloped frill , interrupted only in front " encircles the sides of the foot , and this peculiarity induced Dali to impose upon those species possessing it the subgeneric name of Patinella .
As P. mytilina possesses a shell differing somewhat in form and texture , perhaps it may be well to retain the subgeneric title Nacella proposed by Schumacher for this species .
With this group Messrs. Adams place P. pellucida , Linn. , but since this animal has the branchial cordon interrupted in front of the head , it becomes necessary to locate it in another section , which Leach has styled Patina .
Siphonaria redimiculum .
Siphonaria redimiculum , Beeve , Conchol .
Iconica , ix .
sp. 24 , 1856 .
Siphonaria magellanica , Philippi ?
Malakozool .
Blatt .
1857 , vol. iii .
p. 165 .
Siphonaria lateralis , Couthony MS . ?
in Coll. Cuming .
Siphonaria tristensis , Dali , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
p. 145 ( not S. tristensis , Leach ) .
It is somewhat questionable whether the young examples of S. magellanica , which are described by Philippi as being hooked at the apex , are not slight varieties of Peeve 's species .
The former is said to have the siphonal angle very prominent and the inner margin white articulated with black , and in these respects it differs from redimiculum , the siphonal angle of which is not conspicuously prominent ( a character very often exceedingly variable in shells belonging to the same species ) and the interior is very dark brown or purplish black , a little paler at the margin , which is at times articulated with white .
The shells from Kerguelen Island consist of two varieties , or perhaps two stages of growth .
The first and most abundant form agrees with certain specimens collected in the Straits of Magellan by Dr. B. O. Cunningham ( presented to the Museum by the Admiralty ) , and also with others in the Cumingian collection labelled S. lateralis of Couthouy , of which I find no description , from the Falkland Islands .
This variety is considerably different in form from the typical redimiculum , being much flatter , with the apex less cap-shaped and not so terminal , and the costation rather more rugose ; but the coloration is the same .
The second variety may be said to be quite normal , but as they are smaller shells than those which belong to the other variety , it is very probable that they are but the young form of this species , which is borne out by the statement of Philippi that the young shells of his S. magellanica have the apex aduncum , scepe margi/ ni incumhentem , which applies exactly to this variety .
S. Tristensis , Leach ( not S. Tristensis , Beeve , Con .
Icon .
MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
sp. 23 , which is S. Lessoni of Blainville ) and S. , Beeve , perhaps only a local variety of the former , are the closest allies of this species .
The animal is of a dark slate colour indistinctly dotted with a darker tint ; the sole of the foot and beneath the head greenish buff ; edge of the mantle very pale bluish , at times spotted with slate colour .
The foot oblong , rounded posteriorly and somewhat truncated in front ; the head large , flattened beneath , and arched in front .
The radula is very short and broad , and presents toward the mouth of the animal a somewhat semi-lunate surface , which is slightly keeled longitudinally down the centre .
It is armed with numerous close transverse series of minute teeth very slightly divergent from the central tooth .
They gradually diminish in size towards the margin , are but slightly uncinate , and the central tooth is similar to the rest .
[ Hemiarthrum setulosum .
Semiarthrum setulosum , Dali , Bulletin IT .
S. Nat. Mus. 1876 , iii .
, p. 14 .
Sab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island , on stones at low water ( Dr. Kidder ) .
] Doris tuberculata .
Doris tuberculata , Cuvier , Ann. Du Mus. v. p. 469 , pi .
74 , f. 21 ; Alder and Hancock Brit. Nad .
Moll .
fam .
1 , pi .
3 ; Jeffreys Brit. Conch , v. p. 83 , pi .
3 , f. 4 . ?
Doris ( sp. undetermined ) , Kidder , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
p. 48 .
A Nudibranch brought from Kerguelen Island by the Antarctic Expedition has been identified as a variety of this common European species , by Mr. P. S. Abraham , who has recently been studying the species of this genus in the national collection .
He says that it possesses no characters of specific distinction from D. tuberculata , and differs from it only in a few slight and unimportant particulars attributable to mere variation .
The unequal tubercles , flattened at their tips , are more numerous and crowded at the extremities and along the sides of the mantle than in the middle of it .
The undetermined Doris found by Dr. Kidder in tide pools at low-water in Boyal Sound will very likely prove to be the same species .
Helix ( Patula ) hookeri .
Selix hookeri , Beeve , Con .
Icon , vii .
, pi .
208 , f. 1474 .
Selix ( Datula ) , Pfeiffer , Malaco .
Blatt .
ii .
, p. 126 ; Monog .
Helic .
iv .
, p. 87 ; vol. v. , p. 152 .
Selix ( Syalina ) hookeri , Dali , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. No. iii .
, 45 .
The animal of this species ( in spirit ) with a narrow foot , rather narrower posteriorly than in front .
The sole of it a pale livid olive , and the sides dark slate-colour .
The mantle above the head pale livid , dotted with dark slate spots .
Mr. Eaton says:\#151 ; " During life the animal ( viewed through a lens ) is black " reticulated with grey ; tentacles either black above and dark grey beneath longi- " tudinally , or dark grey throughout ; foot bordered above by a ribbon-like stripe " which is composed of long oblong tessellations , whose interstices are grey , which is " separated by a thin pale irregular line from the more finely reticulated upper " portion of the sides and hack ; the interspaces of the reticulation of these last are " slightly raised and black , and cause the surface to be somewhat granulated .
" Some of the lines of growth in the shell are occasionally straw colour .
" Hab.\#151 ; Common in the neighbourhood of Royal Sound , especially on the terraces of basalt .
CONCHIFERA .
Saxicava bisulcata , ( Plate IX .
, fig. 21 .
) Testa transverse subrhomboidalis , mediocriter crassa , valde insequilateralis , tumida , alba , epidermide tenuissima lutescente partim induta , sulcis duobus minim profundis ah umbonibus usque ad medium marginis ventralis , ibique productis dentes duos effingentibus arata , lineis incrementi concentricis subtenuibus insculpta ; umbones parvi , contigui , fere terminales , incurvati ; margo ventralis minim arcu-atus , medium versus hidentatus ; latus anticum extra umbones vix prominens , posticum a margin dorsali decliviter arcuatum ; ligamentum distinctum , flavescens .
Diam. transversa 6 mill .
Alt .
3^ .
Crass .
3^ .
Hab.\#151 ; -Kerguelen 's Island .
This very curious species of Saxicava is the only one with which I am acquainted having dentate ventral margins to the valves .
These dentitions are the prolongations of two shallow sulci which radiate from near the umbones , not quite down the centre of the valves but a trifle posteriorly , to their edge .
When the shell is closed the ventral margin has an undulating aspect , which is produced by the interlocking of these little tooth-like projections .
Besides these two sulcations in some specimens there are very faint traces of others , or raised ridges radiating down the posterior dorsal slope .
Many of these shells have several porcellaneous tubercles which adhere to the inner surface of the valves , and all of them have a single perforation at their base .
Kellia consanguinea sp. nov .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 20 .
) Lasea rubra , Ball , ( non Montagu ) , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , No. iii .
, p. 45 .
Testa transversa , valde insequilateralis , paululum oblique ovalis , postice leviter angustior , tumida , haud perfragilis , flavescens , prope cardines et latera purpureo-roseo tincta , intus dilute rosea , ad umbones plerumque erosa , epidermide mediocriter crassa , flavescente induta , concentrice tenuiter striata , liic illic fortius concentrice plicata ; umbones aliquanto prominentes , contigui , ad circiter longitudinis ^ a latere antici siti ; linea cardinalis arcuata , purpureo-rosea ; valva dextra dent conico infra MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A SMITH .
apicem umbonis ( qui in fossa parva in valva sinistra accommodat ) munita , et utrinque dent laterali prominenti ( qui in snlco profundo in valva sinistra inter dentem similarem marginemque dorsalem accommodat ) instrncta ; valvarum mar-gines generaliter ubique arcuati .
Diam. transyersa 3 mill .
Diam. longitnd .
2-J- .
Crass .
2 .
Sab .
Boyal Sound ; abundant under stones between tide-marks at Observatory Bay .
At a first glance this species might easily be mistaken for the European rubra , to which it has a very great resemblance .
It is , however , of a rather stronger structure , the epidermis is thicker , the form too transversely rather more elongate , the umbones always , in the seven examples at hand , considerably , eroded , and there is not the faintest trace under a powerful microscope of that minute ( apparently punctate ) radiating striation which is observable in rubra .
The dentition is a little different also .
The Kellia miliaris described by Philippi in Wiegmann 's Archiv fur Xaturgeschichte , 1845 , p. 51 , from the Straits of Magellan , is another closely allied species but differently coloured , it has no epidermis , and the umbones are rather more prominent .
Lepton parasiticum .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 22 .
) jDaily Bulletin TJ .
S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
, p. 45 .
Sab.\#151 ; Parasitic on a Sea-urchin ( Semia cavernosas ) , living in the deep ambulacra , and also on the surface of the test .
This species is remarkable for its parasitic nature and being viviparous .
On opening an adult specimen I found it to be filled with about a dozen very small ones .
Lissarca , subgen .
nov .
Testa sequivalvis , subrhomboidalis , valde insequilateralis ( umbonibus fere termi-nalibus ) , concentrice striata ; linea cardinalis utrinque paucidentata , in medio lsevis ; margines valvarum intus dentati .
This sub-genus of Area is distinguished from Barbatia of Gray , which is the nearest allied group , in having the shell concentrically ( and not radiately ) striated , with the umbones nearly terminal , and consequently it is very much more inequilateral than is usually the case in Barbatia .
Area ( Lissarca ) , rubro-fusca , sp. nov .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 17 .
) Pectunculus miliaris ?
Bhil .
Wiegman 's Archiv .
Naturgesch .
1845 , p. 56 .
Testa valde inequilateralis ( umbonibus fere terminalibus ) , ventricosa , irregulariter subrhomboidalis , antice oblique aliquanto truncata , postice latior , arcuata , mediocriter crassa , ubique rubro-fusca epidermide luteo-olivacea tenuiterque concentrice laminata amicta ; area dorsalis an gustissima , linearis ; umbones magni , mediocriter prominentes , fere contigui ; linea cardinalis in medio rectiuscula , lsevis , ntrinque leyiter arcuata , dentibus albidis , obliqnis tribns yel quatuor ( posticis qnam anticis longe majoribus ) munita ; margo ventralis parum arcuatus , latus versus anticum leyissime sinuatus ; yalyarum margines ( prseter prope sinum levissimum et ad medium lateris postici ) intus fortiter denticulati .
Diam. transversa 4 mill .
Alt .
2S .
Crass .
2^ .
JELab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island ( Antarctic Exped .
and Transit Exped .
) .
It might be thought that this remarkable little species has been described from young shells on account of their smallness , however their comparative solidity , the strong teeth on the hinge and on the margin , give them the appearance of being adult .
These marginal dentations are interrupted at the posterior extremity of the valves , and also towards the anterior end of the ventral margin , where it is faintly sinuated , and where also the little byssus protrudes .
The hinge line is moderately straight , and between it and the dorsal line , which is slightly arcuate , there is an extremely narrow linear area .
The umbones are rather tumid and project slightly above the dorsal line .
Erom the umbo to the posterior end a little above the middle of the valves there is the faintest depression .
The posterior muscular scar is sub-pear-shaped , largish and well defined , the anterior is small and indistinct , and the pallial line is simple and continuous .
The hinge-ligament is central , and so small as to be scarcely traceable .
Its teeth are strongly developed , especially the three or four posterior ones , which are conspicuously stronger than the anterior and more oblique .
I have quoted Philippi 's JEectunculus miliaris with a note of interrogation , as I cannot reconcile certain peculiarities in the present species with his description .
At all events they are congeneric , and therefore P. miliaris must be placed in Lissarca , which is distinguished from Tectunculus by its transverse trapezoidal form and the subterminal position of the umbones , which in the latter genus are almost central ; the teeth are fewer and the valves not radiately striated or ribhed .
L. rubro-fusca apparently differs from L. miliaris somewhat in form , the umbones not being very acute , the margins of the valves are crenulated only in certain places , and not in others , the number of teeth on the hinge-line is smaller , and a dorsal area exists although it is extremely narrow .
These are , it is true , but small distinctions , and had Philippi 's description been more copious , possibly these shells might have been referred to his species without doubt .
The habitat of his species is the Straits of Magellan , and this is favourable to the identity of the two species ; however , until an opportunity is offered for the comparison of authentic examples , it seems to me that it will be the safest course to apply a distinctive name to the Kerguelen Island form .
MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
Two specimens collected by Mr. Eaton differ from those obtained by the Antarctic Expedition many years ago in being rather shorter , and wider posteriorly , in having the umbones less terminal , and the ventral margin of the valves being without denticulations ; the last characteristic may be due to immature age .
Yoldia subajquilateralis .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 18 .
) Yoldia subcequilateralis , Smith Annals \amp ; Mag. X. H. 1875 , xvi .
, p. 73 .
Testa ovalis , postice acuminata , subaequilateralis , postice paululum brevior , con-vexiuscula , epidermide olivacea vel flavo-olivacea induta , concentrice rugose striata , utrinque umbonibus ad marginem subventralem striis paucis subgranosis radiantibus insculpta , utrinque leviter liians , intus caeruleo-alba ; margo dorsalis utrinque multum declivis , antice levissime convexo-arcuatus ; postice fere rectus ; margo ventralis ubique arcuatus ; latus anticum late rotundatum , postieum subacuminate productum ; fovea ligamentalis parva triangularis ; dentes cardinales utrinque 11 ; sinus pallii latissimus parum profundus .
Lat. 34 mill .
, long .
23 , crass .
9 .
The animal resembles that of Solenella gigantea in all respects excepting that the edge of the foot is bluntly serrated or scalloped .
Hob.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay .
Dredged in 7-10 fathoms in very sheltered water .
I know but one species which approaches the present one somewhat closely , namely Y. eightsii of Couthouy .
Erom this , however , it is well distinguished by its different form .
By reference to Jay 's figure upon which Y. eightsii is founded ( for no description is given ; Cat. Shells , 1839 , ed. 3 , pi .
i. f. 12 \amp ; 13 ) , it will be perceived that a very inequilateral shell is there represented , with a much excavated posterior dorsal slope ; on the contrary , Y. subcequilateralis is almost equilateral , with a straight posterior dorsal acclivity .
Solenella gigantea .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 19 .
) Solenella gigantea , Smith Annals and Mag. N. H. 1875 , July , p. 72 .
Testa elongato-ovalis , postice subrhomboidalis , parum inaequilateralis , postice longior , aliquanto ventricosa , marginem versus posticum compressiuscula , epidermide nitidissima ( vel fusco- vel flavo-olivacea ) induta , lineis incrementi concentricis ( interdum prominentibus ) ornata , et striis paucis tenuissimis et confertis ab umbonibus usque ad medium lateris antici radiata , intus alba , iridescens ; margo dorsalis utrinque leviter declivis , ventralis vix arcuatus ; extremitas lateris antici brevioris paululum medium supra leviter acuminato-rotundata ; postica superme A A 2 subrostrata , inmedio leviter sinuata ; dentes cardinales postice circiter 32 , antice 11 ; impressio pallii perprofunde sinuata .
Lat. 62 mill .
, long .
32 , crass .
19 .
Animal furnished with a large foot of an oval form beneath , acuminated at both ends , deeply cleft down the centre , and deeply striated across , surrounded by a nearly even margin ; siphons small , united , retractile , very unequal in size ; the upper or exhalant one very slender , the lower considerably larger ; gills small , terminating at the side of the body ; mouth very small ; palpi very large , lamellately wrinkled within , the terminal appendages towards the siphons with undulating margins ; the margin of mantle treble-edged , simple , only fringed near the siphonal extremity .
Sab.\#151 ; Royal Sound , both at Observatory Bay and near the eastern shore of Swain 's Harbour , on mud in about 10 fathoms .
This magnificent species is by far the largest yet described of this genus , and is at once known from the other three species by its different form .
The posterior end pouts in the same manner as in the North American Yoldia The epidermis in young and half-grown specimens is of a bright yellowish olive colour ; but in the adult shell it becomes of a dark olive-brown , and is much eroded in the umbonal region ; it is slightly reflexed within the margin of the valves , and is held between the two outer edges of the mantle .
The few radiating contiguous striations towards the anterior end furnish another very distinctive character .
Mytilus magellanicus .
M. magellanicus , Chemn .
Con .
Cab .
viii .
, pi .
83 , f. 712 ; Knorr , Vergniigen iv .
, pi .
xxx .
, f. 3 ; Reeve , Con .
Icon , x. , pi .
6 , f. 22 ; Hall , Bulletin N. S. Not .
Mus. , No. iff .
, p. 47 .
M. bidens ( Linn. ?
part .
) et auctorum , vide Born .
Mus. Yindobon .
p. 128 ; Gmelin , p. 3354 ; Hillwyn , Rescript .
Cat. p. 313 .
Sab.\#151 ; Royal Sound , on roots of kelp and on rocks at a depth of 3 fathoms , obtained by means of a grapple .
This common Magellan species varies in colour very considerably .
The largest specimens are generally of the form and dark purplish-black colour , as represented by Reeve 's figure ; others are of a more purplish-slate tint , clothed with a rich olive-brown epidermis , and again others are altogether bright yellow .
In the British Museum there are several examples of this species with the locality New Zealand attached to them .
I cannot trace any character whereby they can be separated specifically , and the habitat is certainly correct , as the shells were received from a reliable authority .
Mr. Eaton says that " the specimens brought up by the kelp often had extremely thick shells , and occasionally measured upwards of five or six inches in length ; the MOLLUSCA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
thin yellow examples appeared to be young , and those which were olive-brown to be less aged than the purple-black shells , as a rule .
The animals were in great request among the blue jackets ( when the expedition first landed ) , who used to haul up the kelp and collect them by buckets-full ; but early in November they went out of season and became uneatable .
" Mytilus edulis .
Mytilus edulis , Linn. Syst. Not .
ed. 12 , p. 1157 .
Mytilus canaliculus , Dali ( non Hanley ) , Bull .
U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , 3 , p. 41 ; ( non M. canaliculatus , Martyn ) .
.Probable varieties are M. ungulatus ( Linn , part ) , Lamarck ; M. chilensis , Hupe ; M. chilensis ( Philippi ) , B-eeve ; M. ohesus , Dunker ; M. trossulus , Gould .
Hab.\#151 ; Abundant on rocks between and a little below tide-marks at Kerguelen 's Island .
After a careful consideration of this species , I cannot arrive at any other conclusion but that the Kerguelen shells undoubtedly are specifically the same as the common edible mussel ( M. edulis ) .
No definite distinction can be traced in the shells ( unfortunately only eleven in number ) collected at Kerguelen , from specimen from the Dutch coast bought in the London market .
The form of the shell ( always more or less variable ) , colour of the exterior and interior , the hinge with the few irregular teeth , muscular scars , and the punctures in the interior towards the ventral margins , are precisely alike in both local forms .
Mr. W. H. Dali , who has given an account of the Mollusca obtained by the American Transit party ( see Bulletin TJ .
S. Not .
Mus. p. 48 ) remarks that " the shell of this species closely " resembles some varieties of Mytilus edulis , but the soft parts are quite different .
" The foot is large and quite flat beneath .
The viscera and branchiae are white , " the foot and mantle edge streaked with dark brown .
" I have closely examined the soft parts of four Kerguelen specimens , and contrary to Mr. Dali 's assertion that they are quite different , I find them to be exactly the same as in European specimens , excepting that the foot is smaller if anything , and not " larger , " but this may possibly be due to contraction , since the foot in some Dutch examples is larger than in others of similar size .
In coloration not the slightest difference is discoverable , both forms having the foot and the mantle-margin more or less brown .
Several other species , for instance , M. chilensis , Hupe , described in the zoological portion of Gay 's History of Chile , M. chilensis of Philippi , published in Peeve 's Conchologia Iconica , and obesus , Dunker , in the same work , apparently do not offer any appreciable specific characters whereby they may be separated from M. edulis , and I do not feel convinced that the large M. ungulatus is anything more than a gigantic form of this species .
And again Jeffreys , speaking of M. trossulus , Gould , says that it " probably differs in no other respect than being called a ' representative ' " species .
" Thus it would appear that these so-called species probably are but locality-species , but until an opportunity occurs of studying the Mytilidse en , it would be hazardous to affirm so definitely .
None of the specimens from Kerguelen Island exceed two inches and a half in length .
Modiolarca trapezina .
Modiola trapesina , Lamk .
Anim .
S. Yert .
ed. 2 , vol. vii .
, p. 24 .
Modiola trapezina , Kiister , Con .
Cab .
yiii .
, heft .
3 , pi .
6 , f. 16 \amp ; 17 .
Modiolarca trapezina , Gray , Synopsis Brit. Mus. 1840 , p. 151 ; Proc. Zool. Soc. 1847 , p. 199 ; Adams , Gen. Bee .
Moll , iii .
, pi .
122 , f. 1 and la .
JPhaseolicama trapezina , Hupe , Gay 's Hist. Chile , Malacologia , pi .
8 , f. 9 .
Fhaseolicama magellanica , Bouss .
, Voy .
au Pol Sud , Moll .
, p. 116 , pi .
26 , f. 2 a-d .
Gaimardia trapesina , Gould , Atlas United States Explor .
Exped .
pi .
41 , f. 568 .
Hab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island .
This species is also found at the Falkland Islands .
Messrs. H. and A. Adams describe " the hinge with two small oblique teeth in the right valve , which receive " two corresponding ones on the left .
" All the specimens which I have examined , be they adult or young , have but a single tooth in each valve , or more strictly speaking a single rounded tubercle situated just below the apex of the umbo , and sometimes the faintest indication of a second .
The ligament is very slender , only just visible exteriorly , and placed in a narrow elongate groove posterior to the umbones .
The shells present various grades of colour , some being as Lamarck states , " luteo-fulva , " others gradually passing into dark purplish-red .
Modiolarca exilis .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 24 .
) Modiolarca exilis , H. \amp ; A. Adams , Proc. Zool. Soc. 1863 , p. 435 .
Testa parva , insequilateralis , irregulariter transverse ovata , antice breviter ros-trata , mediocriter convexa , sub epidermide tenui fugaci flavo-olivacea ( plerumque partim detrita ) , fusco-purpurea , concentrice tenuiter striata , umbones prominentes , incurvati , contigui , propius ad latus anticum siti ; margo dorsalis antice subrecte declivis , postice arcuate declivis ; latus anticum angustum paululum rotundate rostratum , posticum late arcuatum ; margo ventralis leviter arcuatus antice levis-sime sinuatus ; dentes 2 sub apicem utraeque valvae ; ligamentum fere omnino internum , in sulco elongato postico situm .
Diam. transversa 5 mill .
Alt .
fere 4 .
Crass .
24 .
Hah.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island and " Ealkland Islands , " Mus. Cuming .
The only specimen of this species from Kerguelen Island agrees precisely with others from the Ealkland Islands , of which there is a large series in the Cumingian Collection , and also with the types in the collection of Mr. Henry Adams .
MOLLUSC A.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
la every example the thin yellowisli-olive epidermis is worn off from a large portion of the surface of the valves , and is retained only near the ventral margins and on the sides .
Modiolarca minuta .
( Plate IX .
, fig. 23 .
) Kidderia minuta , Dali , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , No. 3 , p. 46 .
There are three specimens of this species obtained by the early Antarctic Expedition in the Museum .
At first they appeared to me to differ so slightly from Jf .
pusilla of Gould from Terra del Euego that I had labelled them as a variety of that species ; hut Mr. Dali , who possibly has a larger series at hand , has pointed out certain differences , which although slight may be sufficient to separate the two forms .
However , I cannot retain the genus Kidderia as described by him .
He says that " it differs from Modiolarca in its single anterior muscular scar , the " presence of strong nymphce for the sub-internal ligament , and in the'full deve- " lopment of the cardinal teeth .
" Of the three examples at hand I have opened two , and in both distinctly observe that there are two anterior muscular scars as in Modiolarca .
The second , the upper one , is extremely difficult of observation , because it is situated deep within the shell and under the apex of the umbo .
In M. pusilla two scars are also present .
The second character referred to as distinguishing Kidderia from namely , " the presence of strong nymphce " is merely one of degree , and equally untenable .
In the present species they are less strongly developed than in pusilla , and rather more so than in the type of the genus ( M. The third distinction is likewise one of degree of development , the teeth of the Patagonian species being rather stronger than those of the Kerguelen shell , and both more developed than those of the common trapezina , in which they are represented by a very small tubercular tooth in each valve , and sometimes a faint trace of a second one .
Radula ( Limatula ) pygmsea .
( Plate X. , fig. 16 .
) Lima pygmcea , Philippi , Archiv .
f. Naturgesch .
, 1845 , p. 56 .
Limatula falklandica , A. Adams , Proc. Zool. Soc. , 1863 , p. 509 .
Mah.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay .
There can be no doubt , I think , that the above two names have been applied to the same species .
Both authors describe their shells as ovate , equilateral , and the costation obsolete on the sides .
In the Museum there is a specimen from the Strait of Magellan , the locality cited by Philippi , rather larger than his example , which was evidently a young shell , but answering to his description in every respect , and agreeing , excepting in size , perfectly with the type of Falklandica , which measures * 15 mill , long and 11 in breadth and 10 in thickness .
Nothing need be added to Adams 's excellent description excepting the number of the ribs , which average about 24 in the largest specimens .
BRACHXOPODA .
Waldheimia dilatata .
Terebratula clilatata , Lamarck , Anim .
sans Vert. , ed. 2 , vol. vii .
, p. 330 ; Sowerby , Thesaurus Conch .
, i. , p. 352 , PI .
Ixx .
, figs. 48 , 49 .
Terebratula gaudichaudi , Blainville , Diet .
Sci. Not .
, 1828 .
Waldheimia dilatatai Gray , Cat. Brachiopoda Brit. Mus. , p. 59 .
Terebratula ( Waldheimia ) dilatata , Beeve , Con .
Icon .
, xiii .
, PI .
II .
, fig. 2 .
Hob.\#151 ; Observatory Bay .
On rocks at 4 fathoms , obtained with the aid of a grapple out of a cleft in the rocks .
Reeve questions the correctness of the habitat attributed to this species by Gray .
But considering how many species of animals found at Kerguelen Island are also indigenous to Patagonian seas , there can be little doubt that Gray was quite correct in this instance .
Explanation op Plate IX .
Fig. 1 .
Neobuccinum Eatoni , a. operculum .
2 .
Trophon albolabratus .
3 .
Strutbiolaria mirabilis , a. operculum .
4 .
Admete limnaeseformis .
5 .
5a .
Scissurella supraplieata .
6 .
Littorina setosa .
7 .
Hydrobia pumilio .
8 .
" caliginosa , and operculum .
9 .
Eatoniella caliginosa .
10 .
" kerguelenensis , and operculum .
11 .
" subrufescens , and operculum .
12 .
Rissoa kergueleni .
Fig. 13 , 13a .
Patella ( Patinella ) kerguelenensis .
14 .
14a .
" " fuegiensis .
15 .
Skenea subcanaliculata .
16 .
Radula pygmsea .
17 .
Area ( Lissarca ) rubro-fusca .
18 .
Yoldia subaequilateralis .
19 .
Solenella gigantea .
20 .
Kellia consanguinea .
21 .
Saxicava bisulcata .
22 .
Lepton parasiticum .
23 .
Modiolarca minuta .
24 .
" exilis .
Tpans .
of Venus Exped Kerguelen Island Zoology PI .
IX .

