" On a Formula for the Elastic Force of Vapour at different Temperatures .
" By Captain Shortrede .
Communicated by Lieut- .
Col. Sykes , F.R.S. The author adopts as the basis of his formula the first series of experiments at high temperatures made by the French Academy , and those of Magnus at low temperatures .
For the Academy 's experiments , he adopts the indications of the smaller thermometer in the steam in preference to those of the larger thermometer in the water .
Of Dr. Young 's sort of formule , he notices that of the Academy and several others with exponents varying from 5 to 7 .
From the elasticity at freezing , as given by Magnus , compared with four of the Academy 's experiments , he shows that for the range of observation the number 6 is preferable to 5 as an exponent ; but , as he states , no formula of this sort with a constant index can be found to agree with the observations throughout .
The formula of Magnus he finds to agree with these observations better than any of the others ; but being adapted to the air-thermometer , and therefore not convenient for ordinary use , he gives his own formula adapted to the mercurial thermometer , t 500+ 225 log A ----- , 5-log At being the temp. Cent. , and A the elasticity in atmospheres of Om 76 at zero , or 30 inches at 58 ?
Fahr. ; .
' .
the temperature being given , the formula becomes 1625 logA=5 225+t The author compares with the experiments the formula of the Academy and those of Southern , Coriolis , Tredgold , and one deduced as above ; also that given by August , and the same modified so as to give at freezing the elasticity found by Magnus ; also that of Magnus , and the same reduced to the mercurial thermometerby the data of Dulong and Petit ; and lastly , iis own formula .
Then assuming that the experiments of Magnus are represented by his for- ; mula , he compares the other formula with it at every IO ?
from10 ?
to 100 ?
Cent. He shows that for the range of their experiments the Academy 's formula is better than the others of Dr. Young 's sort ; but at low temperatures it is very erroneous .
Southern 's formula at low temperatures is better than that of Coriolis , but at high ternperatures not so good .
Tredgold and the other like it are better at low temperatures than that of Coriolis , but worse at high temperatures .
August 's formula is very erroneous ; and in its modified form it is still worse , the errors increasing to about 10 ?
or more , showing that the theoretic considerations by which it is deduced are not founded in truth .
With the Academy 's experiments , the errors of Magnus 's formula are - , but when reduced to the mercurial thermometer they are all + , the mean of the whole being 0 ?
'33 .
With the new formula the errors are nearly balanced , the sums on the thirty experiments being 1 ?
'78 and.+30 ?
55 , in only two cases amounting to half a degree .
On the twelve experiments , at or near the maximum , the errors are 1'12 and + 0 ?
43 .
From zero to 100 ?
the differences between the new formula and that of Magnus are all of one kind ; and when reduced to tem perature are less than 00 ?
4 , which the author thinks to be within the probable difference between the air and mercurial thermometers , and within the errors of observation .
He then gives a table of temperature corresponding to elasticity of vapour in atmospheres .
Also modifying his formula , logf6'47712125292 373+t ' to givef= the elasticity in inches of mercury for temp. Fahr. , he gives a table off for every degree from -40 ?
to +-360 , ?
by the help of which he compares with his formula , the experiments of Robison , Southern , Dalton , Taylor , Arsberger , Ur , and those of the American Committee , and shows that they differ more widely from each other than from the formula .
Considering the care bestowed to ensure the elasticities being correctly measured , the author is disposed to attribute a great part , but not the whole , of the discordance on the several results to errors in the measures of temperature arising from smallness of scale or incorrectness of division .

