]\gt ; .
D. Nivcn on the Calculation " " On the of the Trajectories of Shot D. NIVEN , .A .
, F.R.A.S. Communicated by J. Professor of Lxperimental Physics in University of Cambridge .
Received March 24 , 1876 In the present state of .
knowledge of the air , the problem of integrating the equations of motion of the shot of plotting-out a representation of the curve described by it is , according to the best experiments we possess , the law of tion cannot be xpressed by a single exact formula available for the solution .
We therefore compelled to give solution adapted to Tables , the magnitudes of the retardation being in those Tables for velocities which are common in practice .
formulae given by Hutton by Didion , even if they were true , only to spherical shot ; though they simple formulae , solutions by means of them are not satisfnctory\mdash ; first , leason of their complexity , and ncxt on account of the rough tions which characterize the proofs .
Prof. Helie , who gives an of Didion 's method in his Balistique , savs that it results hich are not in accordance fact .
the fauIt probably be laid in great measure to the the formula ; for there can no doubt lVIr .
Bashforth 's with his chronograph and screens gives more and more extensive information the baJlistic pendulum Hutton and Didion ; and Hutton 's formula , as well as recs ith .
Bashforth 's Tables only for a limited of .
Bashforth himself makes no attempt to condense his bless , its shall presently see , he ndopts solntion is capable of being employed in conjunclion with Tables .
He divides the trajectory into small finds for every the time .
the horizontal and vertical distances from one end of to the other .
The entire trajectory may then be plotted out , and hole time and rallge may be discovered , as well as the final of the direction of motion .
The amount of labour , however , in lating all the quftntities for a single component the copious bless , is so that I led to amine hither any could be done to } ] simplifying the soIution and reducing the of calculation .
It will in the sequel that rules of tion can be employed , and that the tables necessary use are already or can be easily formed .
hilc , without entering into details , it ill be euient to brief account of the drift and scope of what is nttempled in this ' Read May 11 .
187 vol. the work is arranged under three heads , which are called the First , the and the Third Methods , intended to signify three distinct solutions of the problem of finding the motion of shot .
The First , which is the one adopted in .
Bashforth 's treatise , is a on the assumption that the due to is here is constant .
in the actual case is not constant ; therefore , in dealing with the equations of motion over Rlly eompopart of the trajectory , a mean vnlue of must be used .
In contrast to the first method , the third adopt the mean of quantity , .
the tion of the direction of .
The thing was done in General Didion'S solution , hich it $n necesto employ the menn value of the cosine of the inclination .
It will that in selecting this really ) ) But then there ill be this , thnt wherens there is no determining the mean of the first method , the prevails regarding it ) over , according to the work now presented the .
of the ated .
In fact the deter mination of the luean angle said to be the chief object point in these nhons , because ib be seen that there is no difficulty in of the equations used , and , the 1 , no in ] Tables .
What is described as the Second 31ethod , a distinct tion the retardation is formulated by , is to be a to the one it .
It is in the , secon1 the quantities are expressed in terms of the inclination magnitude of that angle deterlnined .
Tho conaud therefore , in the case hen , if use hc ) of as in the iirst method , ought to sohntion Beyond this , the second metbod possesses no al in the business no in hand , being entirely , upcr { that Its chief nnd importnnce consist in ] ) of mean angle , because it is that th same value of that used in the third method .
This point settled , it be , according all the required quantities will depend of ( the space- and ) already The third , -hich may be the vel } -integral , is tabulated for -headed shot , be found S .
It seems convenient at the outset to deiiue the ) employed the \mdash ; denote the velocity of the shot at illv point of } , the horizontal component of ; , the the ctiou of motion lo lh Iinc ) 01 the ( the } the plane ) ; Mr. W. D. Niven on the Calculation time ; , the horizontal distance from some fixed point ; , the distance .
The integrations will be performed over a component arc of the tory , and the three last quantities are measured from the beginning the arc .
The values of , and over the whole arc be denoted , and Y. The values of at the beginning and end of the arc be denoted by and ; those of by and .
The acceleration due grayity is denoted by FIRST MrTUOD .
S3 .
The solution adopted by Mr. Bashforth is the famous one given by John Bernonlli and published in 1721 .
It applies to retardation formulated by .
All the characteristic quantities expressed in terms of ] may be accomplished briefly thus : The tions of motion in the horizontal direction and in the tion of the normal to the trajectory in the ascending branch are Hence Integrate this , recollecting that the initial values of and are get Jf the symbol denotes , the equation will .
The horizontal velocity tho end of the is ) crefore given .
of the Trajectories of Shot .
the vertex of the trajectory the velocity is given by ; If we put .
( 5 ) From equation ( 2 ) , ; .
( B ) ; ; .
( C ) .
( D ) S4 .
The law of retardation found ) 1Mr .
ymbols , is expressed by here ' { he er of the cross section of the shot in inches , its in polmds , and a quantity hich is a function of the velocily , values tabulated between values of the velocity for feet .
In integrating the of motion over any arc , the Mr. W. D. Niven on the Calculation quantity , and therefore , is taken constant , its mean value as near as it can be guessed at being used .
Taking this law , the above results , written in the order in which would be used by a ator , are as , Ths last three .
Bashforth has given ample tables responding to different lues of and between certain .
If there is no table the exact value of which results equntion ( c ) , a method of interpolation must be employed .
The is in this case 3 , and its values are tabulated as those of ils logarithm .
It thus be seen that there are six distinct operations of length , the first being the most serious , because there is some in getting right .
Supposing , however , that point to be settled shall fterwards offer a few observations which will , I think , solution of ( a ) \mdash ; the quantity must be found .
It be ( b ) mere stepping-stones to the time-and I now entel into examination of the equations of the object of pro ) other formulae , which , when once elocity at the end of the ill the time and MEIIIOD .
S5 .
I remarlk , first , that lthough Bernoulli 's solutio ] ] essing { the in terms of integrals of , yet , ing difIiculty complexify of the int ralsb , it is vnlueless , in two cases\mdash ; first , and next hen .
I doubt , whether , in the ) , it is the best solution hen is not of the Trajectories of Shot .
its mean value must therefore be taken over a small arc .
The tables such as they are , there cau be no doubt that , if it were possible , the convenient independent variable would be the velocity itself .
On other hand , all attempts at humouring the equations of motion so as introduce the velocity as independent variable are of no avail .
Whell trajectory is very flat , it may be possible to get resuJts which are not objectionable ; but no general solution is hereby attainable .
The of the equations , however , gest as a possibly good substitute horizontal component of the velocity .
Accordingly , taking this quanas independent variable , I mow proceed to find the distance-integrals a method of approximation .
Since . .
; Similarly , S6 .
Our business now is to substitute for its value in terms of enable us to do this , put and expand in verse of : we .
; .
( 6 ) Also a Mr. W. D. Niven on the Calculation And I now propose to neglect the squares and higher powers of effect of this on the ( c ) integral will be that we have now to find from Call the two in this expression and R. Then ; , taking account of equation ( 6 ) , Let this be put equal to Then , sinoe , let , so that may be regarded as from whose square may be neglected .
We get neglect of the Trajectories of Shot .
The value of X is now seen to become bear is ious that the value of may be obtained in exactly the same ay , and that its magnitude is It is necessary now to enter into an tion of the }nitudcs errors committed in neglecting squares of the quantity , and to how far that what size lve may safety the ViLlues of X and just ined .
Before doing so , I shall briefly remark on the step that in the 1-alue of .
On an ation of equation ( 9 ) , it be seen that the ) part of the erl.ol .
committed mouuts to therefore , in the angle is , consequent errors in X and , if we put for the nmnber of degrees , are given by similar expression .
Mr. W. D. Niven on the Calculation , and suppose that ws are integrating ovsr an arc of , in fourth of the horizontal velocity is lost .
Then approximately .
It therefore be obseryed that the error committed is trifling .
will be small over the greater part of any trajectory , this chisfly affect ; but by good fortune the sign of the error is to error we shall presently find , and therefore helps to neutralize error .
Beturning to the integral for X , we are now to take account of square of .
Let the right-hand side of equation ( 6 ) bs put equal Then Substituting this value of in the expansions of and we get and When the expressions just found are substituted in the integrals , it is obvious that ws have to determine these two of the Trajectories of Shot .
Referring to the investigation of in S6 , we see that the work for be the same , except that instead of we should have to put an corresponding to it , such that error iu X due to the diflerence between and is The integra18 ' may be reduced in the same way as the integral R. most importaIlt part of it be to be corresponding error in X is therefore Q. In the former of these two components of the error of X it will be for the purposes of an estimate to put .
In that case the of the two component errors ( call it ) amounts to be shown in a simihr that the error in is given by sin discussion of these expressions for amy assigned value of for what magmtude of we might with safety employ the for X and Y. I confine myself to the case when , and purposes of a ready estimate I shall take Q. Mr. W. D. Niven on the Calculation It thus appears that when Now suppose we were integrating oyer an of , then might , approximately , put equal to .
Our results therefore be less than in error .
Moreovel the error in is really the more important of the two , is less than this , as I pointed out at the beginning of this article .
If , therefore , the are otherwise serviceable , their inherent errors do not seem to be objection to their use .
S8 .
The formulae for X and already found apply only to ascending branch of the trajectory .
A little consideration enables see that the same formulae apply to the descending branch , provided mean angle is being mow greatel than S9 .
In the preceding articles we have neglected all consideration the time-integral .
It may , of coulSe , be treated in the same way as distance-integrals .
I shall not , however , go into the general case , shall merely state the result in the important case when .
where is equal to in the ascending branch , and in the descending .
If the arc integrated over is small , is not Yel.y from S10 .
I propose now to collect the results I proved , stating in the order and form in which they would be used in metion Ir .
bless for K. of the Trajectories of Shot .
of Resnlts } ( ascending branch ) , ( descending branch ) , ( ascending branch ) , ( descending branch ) ; , , These formulae might very easily be used if the calculator were furnished with tables of 1000 and where ranges between the magnitudes of the velocity occurring in practice .
Remarh.s on the of in an Are S11 .
It be that the two foregoing methods open with the same equation ( a ) .
there is a serious difficulty in the use of that equation .
Suppose , for example , we were to an of : we should to use the mean value of between its alues corresponding to the elocities at the beginning and end of the arc .
But we do not know the latter of these velocities ; it is the thing we have to find .
The first steps in our vork must therefore be to guess at it .
The practised calculator can , from experience , make a very good made his estimate , he uses this value of in equation ; and if he gcts the locity he guessed at , he concludes that he guessed htly and that he has got the velocity at the end of the arc .
If the equation ( a ) does ot agree with him , he makes another guess ; and so ou , till he omes right .
It seems to me , however , that this method of going to out of account Mr. W. D. Niven on the Calculation the loss of time , is open to objection in the point of accuracy .
For , there is no method of determining on what principle the mean value is to be found\mdash ; what manner of mean it is .
, let us for an instant that the velocity at the end of the arc , guessed at , and value of are in agreement ; that is to say , let the equation hold the values of and used by the calculator .
It by no follows he has hit on the right and K. For if he is dealing a part of ths tables in which happens to be nearly equal to ( 1000)3 ' it is obvious that there are ever so many pairs of values of and which will stand the test of satisfying the above equation .
Now an mination of Mr. Bashforth 's tables for ogival-headed shot shows that value of diminishes as increases from 1200 feet upwards , so negative a considerable range of values of which are in practice .
It is not at all unlikely , therefore , that the value just stated may often be very nearly true ; in which case process of guessing becomes extremely dangerous .
I shall in the next method give a plan for determining the velocity the end of the arc , which seems to me simpler and more satisfactory the one we hnve been now discussing .
Meanwhile , in connexion the present method , the following considerations are worthy of notice .
S12 .
Lt us consider the fundamental equation If were uniform , it would be the fall of horizontal velocity change of inclination equal to the unit of circular measure .
As angle is inconveniently large for discussions connected with of shot , let us take for ngle , let be the number of in the ngle hose circular measure is .
We then have .
The quantity on the right-hand side is the same for all shot of the kind ; and I propose to find its values for intervals of the vnlues of be convenient to represent those by the ordinntes of a Mr. W. D. Niven on alculation make a rough estimate of the loss of velocity over an arc of one we have seen that such an estimate must first be made if we employ either of the foregoing methods .
It is possible to make the preliminary guess more near the considering the approximate character of the curves .
For example , curvs for ogival-headed shot is approximately a straight line , the of whose inclination from 1700 to 1250 is 5 ; and from1250 to 1000 , 4 ; below 1000 it is to assign a value .
We can prove for flat trajectories that the fall of velocity in one degree is between the values above assigned .
M. S13 .
Returning now to the fundamental equation ' here is the retardation due to the resistance of the air , since some function of let us put it equal to ) .
Then , with our old tion still in use , we get by intion ' of taking some mean value of the quantify , as done in the two ious methods , let us make the supposition that quantity has its mean value\mdash ; a supposition in this case by no extravagant , the greater part of the trajectory will very slowly .
We then have , if is the number of degrees in Now put .
The equation becomes of the Trajectories of Shot .
Mr. Bashforth 's law substituted , this is ( ) the quantity be calculated for every 10 feet , by giving its mean value over the feet , beginming with 1700 for ogival-headed shot and with 2150 for Supposing this were done , and the results for all the compo- of 10 feet added together , the number opposite any velociby would , example , in the ogival-head-shot tables , be the value of we denote this quantity by , the equation ( a ) may be lvritten , ( ) which be regarded as equation for the determination of The distance-ordinates and time may be found in similar manner .
are given by , ( ) ' ( ) .
( ) denote by and the integritls tions ( b ) , ( c ' ) , and ( ) Mr. W. D. Niven on tlw Calculation seo The quantities and have been tabulated by Mr. Bashforth considerable range of values of , the upper limit being either or 2150 , according as the shot is ogival-headed or spherical .
tables for the ogival-headed shot have recently been revised and to one place fnrther in decimals .
The quantities and therefore be fortunately regarded as completely determined ; and only question will be regarding the ngle .
Now it is a that the value obtained for in S7 , if is not widely from , is very nearly the for all values of which are not far off 8 .
But for limited portions of the trajectory the retardation may be sidered as varying according to some simple power of the velocity , thougb that power is not the same from point to point , but still not far from 3 , We may therefore take the value of found in S7 as applicable to method now in hand .
The adoption of this of the mean since , is really equivalent to supposing the shot to to the chord ; and the above proof shows what the limits of gration must be in order the supposition may be made to to the ctual case .
The most sensitive quantity in this method , near the vertex of the trajectory , is ; and in finding it over an arc responding to a change of inclination large as , it is necessary to the correct value obtained in S7 .
As regards the other three given by the integrals ( a ) , ( b ) , and ( d ) , it will not matter much if take , at least for flat trajectories .
If , however , the trajectory is flat , and reme a is needful , it be necessary to determine ( a ) the quantity over\mdash ; first an pproximate value of it , in to get the mean angle , next its value with the angle used in The following Table gives the value of for ogival-headed shot as as 900 feet per second .
Below that of the velocity forth does not give tables for the resistance , and the magnitudes of the resistance for the lower velocities of shot yet to be fouud .
Mr. W. D. Niven on the Calculation An example of the use of these Tables was given in the abstract printed the ' Proceedings ' of the Society , vol. .
p. 18 .
Professor J. Couch Adams , to whom this paper shown publication , has obtained it solution of the equations employed in second method , which is of a more complete and satisfactory than the one given above .
The results he has at are in the following note , whioh he has kindly allowed me to subjoin:\mdash ; " " Employing the notation of the paper , and supposing the resistance vary as the power of the velocity , the horizontal velocity is by the equation where is exples sed in the mea@ ur .
The tion of the chord is given by where is supposed to be expressed as before in the If be expressed in minutes , the hst term must be multiplied of the Trajectories of Shot .
" " The value of the mean angle to ] in finding the timethe last term is the same as that in the abol ealue of , but the term is one half of its mount in the former case .
will be seen that the bove expressions for and independent the value of " " Also , if is pressed before in the , the of of the time ) . .
" " It mtty be remarked that if , as well and , bo interchanged , alues of and will remaiu unitltered , the of X , merely change .
signs , as it is evident should be the case .
" " The values of , and true to the third order of small inclusive , and the values of X , , and are to the fourth considering of

