1879 .
] Downs and Blunt .
Oxalates of the Alkalies .
219 XX .
" Note upon the Behaviour of Oxalic Acid and the Oxalates of the Alkalies , and of Potassium Iodide , in Sunlight .
" By Arthur Downs , M.D. , and Thomas P. Blunt , M.A. Oxon .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received June 16 , 1879 .
In a previous communication* we stated that a decinormal solution of oxalic acid may be entirely destroyed by sunlight , the decomposition being due to oxidation .
By a comparison , under like conditions , of oxalic acid and neutral potassium oxalate respectively we further concluded , since the last-named salt appeared to remain unchanged while the former was wholly decomposed , that this destruction of oxalic acid by light was due to the oxidation of its hydrogen .
During the present year , however , we have made a closer and fuller investigation , which shows that the immunity of neutral potassium oxalate is not absolute , and that we must further extend our views as regards the power of light to promote the oxidation of certain of the elements .
A measured quantity of normal solution of oxalic acid was carefully neutralised with\#151 ; 1 .
Potassium hydrate .
2 .
Sodium " 3 .
Ammonium , , 4 .
Lithium carbonate .
The solution was then diluted up to ten times the volume of the normal oxalic acid originally taken , so that in each case the resultant neutral solutions contained the same weight of the oxalic radical , that , namely , which would be found in an equal bulk of decinormal oxalic acid .
Selecting sixteen test-tubes of similar size and bore , we divided them into four sets of two pairs each .
In each set respectively we placed one of the above-named solutions ( each tube receiving 50 grain measures carefully measured by means of a pipette ) , a corresponding batch being charged in precisely the same way with a freshly prepared decinormal solution of oxalic acid .
All were next raised to boiling point , to prevent development of organisms , and plugged with cotton wool. .
They were then placed on an outside window-sill , one pair of each batch being encased in laminated lead , the other left freely exposed to the sun 's rays .
This was on March 28 .
On each of the dates given in the subjoined table an insolated and an encased tube of each set were compared by titration in the following manner .
By appropriate dilution and measurement exactly a fifth part of the con* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxviii , p. 204 .
220 Downs and Blunt .
On Potassium Iodide .
[ June 19y tents of each tube was taken , treated with an excess of sulphuric aeidr and a standardised solution of potassium permanganate run in until a faint permanent pink tinge remained in the solution when warmed .
A direct measure , inversely as the quantity of permanganate required , , was thus obtained of previous oxidation .
Experiment started March 28 .
Potassium permanganate solution required for oxidation.# April 25th .
June 9th .
Incased .
Insolated .
Incased .
Injolated .
Oxalic acid 7'5 c.c. 2*0 c.c. 7*25 c.c. 0 0 c.c. Ammonium oxalate 7-5 " 51 " 7-3 " 22 " Sodium oxalate 7*4 " 6 05 " 7-2 " 5*2 , , Potassium oxalate . . .
7-5 " 61 " 71 " 5-4 " Lithium oxalate , , 7-3 " 62 " 7-25 " 60 " Freshly prepared decinormal solution of oxalic acid } 7-3 C.C. 7-2 c.c. Our previous statement as to the total oxidation of oxalic acid in sunlight is thus confirmed , but we learn for the first time that in no case does an oxalate of an alkali entirely escape the oxidising action of sunlight , although whether the various alkali salts always obey the relative proportions of the table above given is a question on which at present we express no opinion whatever .
It is , however , an interesting question which constituent of their molecules is the subject of oxidation .
Hydrogen , except in the case of the ammonium salt , j* is out of question .
The uniformity of the initial action indicated the possibility of an oxidation of carbon , but a collateral study of the * Disregarding the trifling differences in the decimals as due to unavoidable error the incased liquids remain practically unchanged .
From other experiments , not here given , however , it " would appear that to obtain this stability the solutions must be boiled , probably on account of the tendency to development of low organisms in the dark .
f Speculation as to the cause of the greater oxidation of this compound , as compared with the other alkali-oxalates in the above experiment , would be premature ; and , although the suggestion that a portion of the hydrogen of the NH4 is seized upon , offers itself , it is only right to say that the possibility of other explanation has presented itself to us .
This we leave for the present .
We may remark incidentally , that a mixture of gaseous ammonia ( NH3 ) and oxygen in a glass tube over mercury , underwent no change in volume after months of insolation last year .
1879 .
] On Long-continued Stress on Elasticity of Metals .
221 well-known decomposition of potassium iodide in sunlight has led us to believe that in this case ( KI ) the phenomenon is of similar character .
The nature of this decomposition of potassium iodide has been much discussed , and observers , misled as it seems to us by a supposed analogy with ordinary photographic reactions , have singularly failed to recognise the possibility of the oxidation of metallic elements by light .
Hence they have ascribed this behaviour of potassium iodide to acids , carbonic and other , of the atmosphere .
On this point , however , we have satisfied ourselves ; first , that in a Sprengel vacuum a 10 per cent , solution remains perfectly colourless in sunlight ; and , secondly , that decomposition invariably occurs in an in-solated solution when no other gases than nitrogen and oxygen are present.'* Here the oxidation can only be that of the alkali metal , and analogy would suggest a similar inference in the case of the-oxalates .
We are , however , still engaged on the investigation , and our present object is rather to qualify the statement in our previous paper as to the supposed indestructibility of an alkali-oxalate by sunlight , than to advance to a conclusion for which the evidence is not yet sufficient .
XXI .
" Preliminary Experiments on the Effects of Long-continued Stress on the Elasticity of Metals .
" By J. T. Bottomley , M.A. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Sir W-Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1879 .
The following paper is intended to describe the results of experiments on elasticity of wires which have been carried on during the past two years , in the Natural Philosophy Laboratory in the University of Glasgow .
In 1875 , at the Glasgow meeting of the British Association , a Committee was appointed , at the suggestion of Sir William Thomson , for the purpose of commencing secular experiments on the elasticity of wires , and a grant of money was placed at the disposal of the Committee .
These experiments have accordingly been commenced .
An iron tube about 70 feet long has been erected in the tower of the University .
Two wires of gold , two of platinum , and two of palladium , * The mode in which we insured , as we believe , the absolute freedom of the air employed from acid impurity was the following :\#151 ; Exhausting tubes to a good Sprengel vacuum , we admitted\#151 ; by means of the apparatus we described in " Proc , Boy .
Soc. , " vol. xxviii , p. 210\#151 ; air which had been standing , with frequent agitation , for six days over a solution of potassium hydrate .
To make doubly sure , the exhaustion was again repeated and the purified air a second time admitted .
The tubes thus treated acquired a brown tinge in light as quickly as did similar ones simply plugged with cotton wool .

