43G Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
On th Gastric Gland ( 2 ) That by the use of appropriate means these intracellular bodies can be isolated and cultivated outside the body .
( 3 ) That these cultures , when introduced into certain animals , can cause death , with the production of tumours , so far of endothelial origin ; and that pure cultures can be made from these growths which , when inoculated into suitable animals , will produce similar tumours .
" On the Gastric Gland of Mollusca and Decapod Crustacea : its Structure and Functions .
" By C. A. MacMunn , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. B.S. Beceived February 23 , \#151 ; Bead March 9 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) In 1883 I communicated a paper* to the Iloyal Society , in which I described the occurrence of a pigment closely resembling vegetable chlorophyll in the so-called liver of Invertebrates , and in 1885 a further contribution in continuation of the same subject , which was published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' ( Part I , 1886 ) .
I named this colouring matter " enterochlorophyll , " because after comparing it with all the animal pigments and plant pigments known to me , it seemed to resemble , both in its chemical and spectroscopic characters , the chlorophyll of plants .
In the latter paper , I endeavoured to describe the microscopic characters of this pigment , as it was found in the digestive gland , and I applied all the tests then considered to be distinctive of chlorophyll to the solutions of the pigment .
I found that whereas enterochlorophyll appeared to be a chlorophyll , or a modified chlorophyll , it yet differed in some respects from chlorophyll , as it is obtained directly from fresh green leaves .
Some recent writers have called in question the right to call this pigment by the above name , so I have reinvestigated the whole subject .
It was , however , necessary first of all to study the histology of the digestive gland , or gastric gland , as it is now named , and the microscopic characters of the pigment found in it .
This has been done by Max Weber and Frenzel for the gland of Crustacea , and by Barfurth and by Frenzel for the gland of mollusca.f As can be gleaned from these observers , great difficulties attend the preparation of this gland for microscopic observation .
I found after numerous failures that formol is the best fixative , used in stronger solution than it usually is employed in vertebrate histology .
Thus it is necessary to employ solutions containing from 20 to 30 per cent , of * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 35 ( 1883 ) , p. 370 .
f References are given in the complete paper .
and Decapod Crustacea : its Structure and Functions .
437 formol .
After from 12 to 24 hours the preparation is transferred to alcohol of 95 per cent. , and , when hard enough , to a mixture of alcohol and ether , and finally into a solution of celloidin .
When this is set , the preparation is cut either in the ordinary way , or by the freezing microtome .
Clearing is done by means of oil of sandalwood , or oil of origanum .
The sections were stained in various ways , but the best results are obtained with hsemalum , followed by eosin as a plasma stain .
I also used mueicarmine , thionin , " Soudan III , " and other stains for special purposes .
In this way very satisfactory preparations can be obtained , and the celloidin keeps all the gland constituents in situ .
The glandular epithelium in the Crustacea contains , according to Max Weber , two kinds of cells , hepatic cells and ferment cells .
Frenzel subsequently called them fat-cells , or fat-holding cells , and ferment-cells .
That of mollusca contains , according to Barfurth , hepatic cells , and ferment cells also , which Frenzel again re-named granular cells and club-cells .
Now the sharp distinction drawn between these kinds of cells by these observers is found not really to exist , and we meet with transition-forms between them .
The coloured contents of these cells , in the case of either ferment-cells or granular-cells , or fat-cells , are coloured by either enterochlorophyll or by a lipochrome , or by both .
It was , however , mainly my object , after having studied the histology of the gastric gland , to find out if I was really justified in calling this colouring matter enterochlorophyll , and if it has properties which class it among the chlorophylls , to find out how it gets into the gland , and so on .
It is impossible here to refer more fully to the histology of the gland , so that I shall merely give an account of the observations on the pigments found in it .
The only way in which any pigment giving a banded absorption-spectrum can be readily identified is , of course , by means of the spectroscope , but since spectrum analysis alone is attended by certain fallacies , one has to fall back on spectrophotometry .
This being a quantitative method gives the most accurate results of all .
Of course elementary analysis , if applicable , enables one at once to decide the identity or non-identity of pigments , but unfortunately the pigments with which we are now dealing cannot be prepared in a pure , or even in an approximately pure , condition for this purpose with our present knowledge , owing to their being mixed with fatty matters and other impurities .
The spectrophotometer which I have used is a modified form of that which Yierordt introduced .
Some of the modifications were , I believe , introduced by the brothers Kriiss ; * others were suggested by me to Mr. Hilger , who constructed the apparatus .
# Gr .
and IT .
Kriiss , ' Kolorimetrie und Quantitative Spektralanalyse/ 1S91 .
438 On the Gastric Gland of Mollusand Decapod Crustacea .
When a solution of plant-chlorophyll in alcohol solution is compared with a similar solution of enterochlorophyll by means of curves obtained with the spectrophotometer , these curves do not correspond ; but when we convert the plant-chlorophyll into the " modified " form , or , what is the same thing , the slightly acid form , by means of acetic acid , and allowing the solution to stand for a few hours , and then compare the respective solutions , we find the maxima and minima of the curves follow each other so closely as to lead one to conclude that the pigments are closely related to each other .
Again , if hydrochloric acid is added to a solution of plant chlorophyll in alcohol , and to a solution of enterochlorophyll in alcohol , and these two solutions are examined by means of the spectrophotometer , a remarkable agreement is noticed .
The numbers taken for these measurements are the percentages of the unabsorbed light , as the latter enable curves to be more easily constructed than by taking the co-efficients of extinction .
I have also examined Lankester 's " chsetopterin , " * and I find the curve obtained by the spectrophotometer follows closely that of enterochlorophyll and that of modified chlorophyll .
But chsetopterin is soluble in glycerin , while enterochlorophyll is not .
While examining Chcetopterus at the Plymouth Laboratory , I found that an alcohol solution of the contents of the intestine , in the neighbourhood of that part of the gut coloured by chsetopterin , gave exactly the same spectrum as a similar solution of chsetopterin itself .
The discussion of the inferences to be drawn from this observation may , however , be left for the present .
I have seen enterochlorophyll present in a finely granular form in the intestinal epithelium of Patella , and in the pseudo-villi of the glandular stomach of the same mollusc one can see crowds of leucocytes , some of which are insinuating themselves between the columnar epithelial cells .
The inference , of course , is that the leucocytes carry away those substances which have been taken up by the epithelial cells in a more or less digested condition .
Some have supposed that these granules are being excreted into the lumen of the gut , but in my opinion , based upon a study of numerous sections of invertebrate gastric glands , the excretion of enterochlorophyll by means of the gland cells__belonging to the various kinds mentioned\#151 ; takes place into the lumen of the alveoli , acini , or tubes of the gastric gland , and from these we can trace the excreted gland-cells into the intestine .
Prom all these and other observations I have been forced , I must confess against my inclination , to believe that enterochlorophyll is a pigment which primarily has been taken up from the intestine dissolved in a fatty medium , and is carried either by leucocytes , or in some other way to be deposited with this fat , and perhaps other reserve # ' Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sci. , ' vol. 40 , p. 447 , \amp ; c. Structure and Affinities of Matonia pectinata , fc .
439 products , in the gastric gland .
Whether it is utilised for the production of other pigments or not is a question for future investigation .
That it is a chlorophyll derivative I now believe to be proved .
Its stability , as compared with plant chlorophyll , is due to the fact that it has been altered by the action of the digestive juices .
Such derivatives of complex mother-substances are , as is well known , much more stable , and less prone to change than the parent pigments .
* .
' On the Structure and Affinities of Matonia pectinata , R. Br .
, with an Account of the Geological History of the Matoninese .
" By A. C. Seward , F.R.S. , University Lecturer in Botany , Cambridge .
Received February 28 , \#151 ; Read March 9 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The genus Matonia has long been known as an isolated type among existing ferns .
It is represented by two species , M. pectinata R. Brown and M. sarmentosaBaker , both confined to the Malayan region .
Matonia has not hitherto been examined anatomically , and its reference by several writers to an intermediate position between the Cyatheaceae and Gleicheniaceae , is based on the structure of the sorus , which , in the small numbers of sporangia and in its circular form , resembles the latter family , while the presence of an indusium and the position of the annulus afford connecting links with Cyatheaceous ferns .
In Matonia pectinata the frond has a characteristic pedate habit , with numerous long pinnae having slightly falcate linear segments , practically all of which appear to be fertile .
The sori are circular in form and indusiate , consisting of about eight large sporangia with an oblique incomplete annulus , containing sixty-four tetrahedral spores .
The dichotomously branched rhizome , which grows on the surface of the ground , is thickly covered with a felt of multicellular hairs , and gives rise to long-stalked fronds from its upper face , and a few wiry roots , which may arise from any part of the surface of the stem .
The full paper deals more especially with the anatomical structure of Matonia pectinata .
The material which rendered the investigation possible was generously supplied by Mr. Shelford , of the Sarawak Museum , Borneo , to whom the author wishes to express his hearty thanks .
The stem is polystelic , and of the gamostelic type ; there may be two annular steles , with the centre of the stem occupied by ground-tissue , or in shorter branches of the rhizome a third vascular strand may occupy the axial region .
Each steal consists of xylem tracheids and associated parenchyma , surrounded by phloem composed of large sieve-tubes , with numerous sieve-plates on the lateral walls , and phloem

