]\gt ; Isotropic Elastic \amp ; lid Ellipsoids Stresses in Isotropic Elastic Solid ipsoids in Equilibrium under Bodd .
Forces derivable from a Potential of the Second Degree By C. CHREE , M.A. , Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge , of Kew Observatory .
Communicated by Professor W. G. ADAMS , F.R.S. Received lIarch 2 , \mdash ; Read May 10 , 1894 .
Abridged February 20 , Formuloe .
S1 .
Let the isotropic elastic solid ellipsoid , , of uniform density , be acted on by bodily forces whose components are derivable from a potential Let denote the determinant , , , , . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) and let its minors be , \amp ; c. , where Then with the notatio1l of Todhunte ] ' and Pearson 's " " tory denoting Poisson 's ratio , the are given by ( 4 ) ; LVlII .
LVlII .
40 Mr. C. Chree .
Isotropic Elastic Solid Ellipsoids under where .
( 5 ) , while and are got from by replacing the suffix in the 's by 2 and by 3 respectively .
Denoting the displacements by , types of the 6 strains are . . .
( 6 ) ; where is Young 's modulus , Poisson 's A type of the three displacements is - - ' - . . .
( 7 ) .
The other strains and displacements can be written own from mmebry .
{ elastic increment , in }rincipal semi-axis , we have Forces derirable from a of th Second Degree .
41 . . .
Let .
denote the component stresses across the ) plane af to a qundric concontric , and similar and situ to the bouuding surface ( 1 ) , for whose eq ation we ke ( 9 ) , we easi find . . . . . . . . . .
( 10 ) , where the endicular from centre on the tnngent plane .
Thns the tnnt stresses across parallel planes to stem ( crtt the points of contact are all pal.allel , their intensity S .
If ellipsoid rotabing with uniform angulal .
about the lxis 2 , we have ; if it be itating , the force between unit masses at tsken as nity , . . . . . . . . . .
( 11 ) expl.essions for and R. If the bo gravitating , and at the same time rotating about a cipal axis , have only bhe values of , Q , R. values of in the expressions for , and consequent Ytlues of in the formulae ( 4 ) , ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , the complete values of the stresses , strains , and Gravitating nearly Spherical Ellipsoid .
S4 .
Denoting by the force between two unit masses at unit distance , we may take with symmetrical expressions and R. We thence find * Thomson and Tait 's 'Natural ' vol. 1 , I , p. 4 42 Mr. C. Chree .
Jsotropic Elastic Solid Ellipsoids under - . . . . .
( 12 ) , . . . . . . .
( 13 ) .
other stresses may be written down from symmetry .
With the notation of S2 , .
It will be noticed that , where , , the coordinates of the point where the radius vector produced cnts the surface of the ellipsoid .
and being the perpendicnlar the centre on the tangent plane at .
Near } surface we may put , and so conclude that and the other stress components across the angent planes to ( q ) vary approximately as the distance from the surface .
As the stresses at the ce itself are of special interest in the of any application to the earth , I shall briefly consider t for a spheroid in which .
The principal stresses are , tt , directed respectively along the , the tangent to the meridian , and the perpendicular to the meridian .
Using cylindrical coordinates , where Forces derivable a Potential of the Second .
43 we , get . . . . . .
( l5 ) / vbere is the perpendicular from the centre on the tangent On " " stress-difference\ldquo ; theory of rupture objecion to the application to the of the results obtained by ying the elastic solid theory to a perfect , is that the surface value .
of and would , for ordinary values of , be simply enol'mous .
* This objection , however , ceases ] when the earth is treated as ressible and spherical , because and then anish , as well as ? .
It is thus important to know vbat happens the case of an incompressible material when the sul.face is slightly .
To do so , put in ( 15 ) , and we find .
Over the surface maximum stress-difference , , is torial value , and is given by .
Substituting for values suitable to the case of a homogelleous ' ' earth we find ) approximately tons weight per square inch . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 18 ) .
This is large enough to show that even if the earth be supposed incompressible , the consequences of its mutual gravitation cannot safely be igllored .
The strains and displacements in the case of gravitation in a nearly spfierical ellipsoid may easily be deduced from ( G ) and ( 7 ) .
From the expressions for the changes in the lengtbs of the semi-axes we get . . .
( 19 ) , .
* See 'Phil .
Sept. , 1891 , p. 247 .
44 Mr. C. Chree .
Isotropic Elastic Solid Ellipsoids under The principal axes ] shorten in any material which is not very 1learly incompressible .
For absolutely incompressible material , . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 21 ) ; thus a principal axis shortens or lengbhens according as the square on it is greater or less than the arithmetic mean of the squares on principal axes .
In a spheroid , we find from ( 21 ) , - . . . . . . . . . .
( 22 ) , is given by ( 17 ) .
Taking the numerical vaIue ( 18 ) for , and for the high value grammes weight square centimetre , we should get from for a spheroid the slIape and of the ealth , a of miles in equatorial diameters and a lengthening of some 10 lniles in the polar diameter reIative to what these lengths would have been in the absence of gravitation .
Rotating nexrly Ellipsoid .
S5 .
nppose next that the nearly spherical ellipsoid rotates with uniform ular velocity about .
The values of are as follo :\mdash ; . . . . . .
( 23 ) , Forces derivable from a Potential of the Degre - . . . . . .
( 24 ) , - . . . . . .
, . . . . . . .
lnav be obtained from , and from by interchanging ith and with The rednction in along the axis of rotation is given by .
It is thus .
or less than in a sphere of radius , according as is less or greater than the al'ithmetic mean of the squares on the principal semi-axes .
The tendency to shorten in the axis of rotation increases as the perpendicular diameters then .
For the increment in a perpendicular semi-axis , we get . . . . . .
( 28 ) .
46 .
C. Chree .
Elasiic Solid Ellipsoids ?
mder From this we see that the " " extension per lnit of length \ldquo ; greatest in the longer of the two principal diameters perpendicular to the axis of rotation .
Very Fla Ellijpsoid .
S6 .
Supposing 2 the short axis , we find , neglecting higher powers of and . . . .
( 29 ) , . .
( 30 ) , . . . . . . . .
( 31 ) , .
is got from , and from by interchan and with The forces may occur independently , so the most important term in the coefficient of each has been retained .
When and alone exist , or the forces are perpendicular to the small and to , and ratios of the order : , while bears a ratio of the order .
Thus for a first \mdash ; approximation the three stresses need be retained .
To a first approximation , yy , and are constant along any line parallel to the small dimension .
These conclusions * Used here and subsequently in sense of total change in length of axis divided by original length , whether strain be uniform or not along the axis .
Forces derivable from a Potentiat of the Second Degree .
47 are so far in harmony with the assumptions usually made in theories of thin plates .
It should be noticed , however , that is of the same of itude as , and so of equal importance in the first body-stress equation .
When aIone exists , or the forces are parallel to the small dimen- sion , oints i the interior is of the same order of magnitude as , and If there be bodily forces both parallel and ular to } ) small dimension , and the two sets be of the same order of )litude , then to a first approximation the stresses due to the former set of forces may be neglected .
Gravitating very Oblate Spheroid .
S7 .
Taking as before for the gravitation constant , we have as a first approximation .
As there is symmetry round the axis of , we employ cylindrical coordinates .
The notation , . . . .
for the stresscs explains itseIf .
The displacements are along , and ,7 parallel to .
The strains are ( 34 ) .
For the values of the stresses we find . . . . . . .
, The strains which differ from zero are * Thomson and Tait 's tural Philosophy , ' vol. 1 , Part II , Art .
527 .
48 Mr. C. Chree .
Isofropic lastic Solid Ellipsoids under . . . . . .
( 36 ) .
The displacements and dilatatior are . . .
( 37 ) .
Strictly , and , being of the order of terms omitted in , \amp ; c. , should be neglected ; but the record of their first approxiations may prove and are pressures at every interior point ; is everywhere a compression , and an extension , while is a compression inside and an extension outside the oylinder . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 38 ) .
lihe displacement is everywhere towards the axis of the spheroid , nnd away from the central plane , .
Every element is reduced in volume .
Elhpsoid Rofating about the Short Axis S8 .
Here Putting for shorlness we find Forces derivable from a Potential of the Degree .
49 . . .
( 40 ) .
it should be noticed , is igible c to and and these in tu compared to and The values of and xy bear to corresponding first ) proximations in the case of elliplic disc* of semi-axes and , about its cylindrical axis with the same angular velocity , the common atio This ratio also applies to the first approximations to , , and ; while the other strains are in botb cases negligible compared to these .
Tt applies furbher to and .
Thus the majority of the results worked out for the rotating disc can be .imply modified so as to apply to the flat ellipsoid by means of the ollowing table which proceeds to three places of decimals .
Table I. Values of On either the " " greatest strain " " or the " " maximum stress-difference \ldquo ; heory of rupture , the limiting ular velocity in the flat ellipsoid * Phil. Mag July , lS92 , pp. 70\mdash ; 100 ; see results ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 19 ) , p. 7 50 Mr. C. Chree .
Isotropic Elastic Solid Ellipsoids ?
mder bears to that in the thin disc , of the same material and axes , a ratio which is the square root of the reciprocal of ( 41 ) .
If the limiting angular velocities be for the ellipsoid , for the disc , then the approximate values of when , are as follows : \mdash ; Table II .
In the case of the thin disc many very simpls results were found for the radial stlains ; these apply without modification to the sbrain in the flat ellipsoid .
Flat Ellipsoid rotating about one of its longer axes S9 .
Putbng and employing in ( 39 ) , we find , As passes through the critical value , the stresses and vanish and change sign ; and at the critical value , to a first approximation , the only stress is The sbrebches answering to ( 42 ) ars Forces ivabte from a Pofential of the .
51 . . .
( 44 ) .
s- For the increments in the semi-axes we have .
It is easy to prove positive , and , for all values 0 and ; thus , of the axes perpendicular to the axis of rotation , the longer lengthens and the shorter shortens .
The axis of rotation is reduced .
lVhen the flat ellipsoid is spheroidal is greater or less , according as is greater or less than Elongated Ellipsoid .
S 10 .
Treating and as both very small , we 52 Mr. C. Chree .
Isofropic Elastic Solid Ellipsoids . .
( 46 ) , .
( 48 ) , .
Forc , from Potential of the Second Dpgree .
53 and may be deduced from and respectively by interchanging with with and with If , and be of the same order of , the princip al terms depending on them in values of , and are likewlsc of the same order ; but in , and the prlnclpal in and the same order as the secondary terms 111 .
I to retain in thus thouohto .
it best , in ( 47 ) and ( 49 ) , the coefficieIlts of , and to write the secon approximation value of II .
If , be , the .
terms on the left-hand sides of these equations with .
in the denomlnator should be drol ) When exists , or the bodily forces are parallel to long near the ends of the .
axis , is large compared to yz in their turn are , at most comp to , and .
The hypothesis usually rods , viz. :\mdash ; , is thus approximately true .
is , however , of the same as , and of the same as , so that the of any the nine differential coefficients in the stress equations would be Wben the bodily forces are th lon dimension special values of , z\mdash ; xx , of tlJe same order of magn itude , and are compared to and .
This result differs widely from ( 50 ) .
When of the same order of itude , we may , for first approximation , all the but , and take , , , , , , . . . . . .
( 51 ) .
strain at any point is the same as in a long bar a sion at its ends equal per unit of section to the local value of * lodhuntcr and Pearson 's IIistory , ' .
2 , 54 Mr. C. Chree .
Isotropic Elastic Solid Ellipsoids under To a closer degree of approximation we have , for tho stress system , . . . . . . . .
and for the strain system , in addition to , and , in ( 51 ) , - . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 53 ) , where is the rigidity .
An analysis of ( 52 ) gives , on a plane perpendicular to stress parallel to , and shearing stl'ess \mdash ; along , the perpendicular on the axis of ; on a plane perperldicular a shearing stress , \mdash ; , parallel to ; on any plane the axis of , no stress .
Even in the general case with all existent , and secondary retained in the coefficient of and in , we get for the simple formula . .
( 54 ) .
When the bodily forces are perpendicular to the long axis , the stretch parallel to that axis is thus appreciably constant over a cross section ; these perpendicular forces to shorten or to lengthen the long axis according as they act outwards from it or to wards it .
tgated Ellipsoid Rotating about the Long Axis 2 S11 .
Putting in ( 46 ) to ( 49 ) we get . .
Forces det.ivable from a Potential of the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, \mdash ; \mdash ; [ . .
and be got from and respectively with and a .
To a first pproximation y and are llcgligible .
ccting z in }hesefol.mulae , we obt ) licable to central portion of long ellipsoid ; these results are identical with those I prcviously obtained fur a 1 elliptic cylin er , * the axes of ) elliptic soction are and 2 , rotating about tlJe axis .
To for the from infinite }-lindcr , we for 1 in the in , , in the cooificicnt of in and in of in we multiply the -l The ttlld displacement parallel to the axis of spccial , they are .
( C0 ) .
by 2 the length of the .
elliptic cylinder , we have . . . . . . . . . .
( 61 ) .
enables the values of , for and , and 1 , to be vritten down from Table , p. 159 , of my paper on elliptic cylinder .
Table of that paper values and which unchan the ile bless XIII and its velocity the difference and greatest strain theories .
The formula . .
( 62 ) hows that of the lransverse axes the longer is that -hich , ately , is most extended .
* ' Phil. Mag Aug. , lS92 , formulae ( 8O ) to ( 83 ) , VOL. Mr. C. Chree .
Isotropic Ellipsoids under Elongated Ellipsoid Rotating about a Short Axis S 12 .
We have to substitute in equations ( 46 ) to ( 49 ) Putting for shortness , we get , , terms of order and , , , .
( C.9 ) .
ions to the values of the , strains , displacements , and increments of the semi-axes may be obtained by writing for in ( 51 ) .
To this degres of approximation it makes no difference which of the two axes is that about which rotation takes place .
The short axes shorten to the same extent per unit of ] ength , whiIe the axis lengtbens .
By writing for and in ( 54 ) , we get a very close approximation to the strain lrallel to the long axis .
Forces from a Potential of the Second ] Application of Method Values .
S13 .
Let be the mean of material ) to the axes 2 , and Oet be the volume of the ellipsoid .
Then it is easily pro from the resuIts in my on the mean of strains , \amp ; c. , that the sric increments in general are given by . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . .
, '-t In ( 71 ) denotes the " " bulk modulus the spherical ellipsoid , iring ( and ( 19 ) we see that in il or the per length of a ) of he mC.i$ .
] chord are identical .
increlnent in volume in the ] ipsoicl , ( 71 ) gi . . . . . . . . . .
the very flat sphel.oil of S 7 , .
For the general case of an ellipsoslashid rotating ) , we , . . . . . . . . . .
Soc. Trans vol. , pp. with mula ( ) , p. 335 , ' Isotrol'ic Elastic Solid Ellipsoids .
A material line parallel to an axis 2 , perpendicular to the axis of rotation , is exposed to two opposing actions .
The components of ' ' centrifugal\ldquo ; force in its own directionend to lengthe1l it , while those in the perpendicular direction 2 tend to shorten it .
On an average the former action will prevail so long as the mean dimension paraIlel to 2 bears to that parallel to 2 a ratio exceeding : 1 .
Approximate Methods .
S 14 .
Suppose a body symmetrical with respect to the coordinate planes , of great length , 2 , in the direction of , to be acted on by the bodily forces whose components are .
The stresses over plane must balance the force whose } ) are , \amp ; c. Since section perpendicular to has its .
on that axis , it is clear vanish , which give the components parallel to .
If now we assume that when there is no rapid variation the cross section , , as alters .
is compared to the other stresses , and is approximately uniform over , then we may take as a For an elongated ellipsoid this gives , as in ( 51 ) , .
Taking this as sole stress , we obtain from the ordinary stressstrain relations the same values of as in , and thence by integration the correct first approximation values of the displacements .
For a thin elliptic disc in which one of the axes , 2 , of the elli ptic section is large compared to the other or to the thickness , we find as first approximations .
, for instance , ) disc be rotating about its thickness , i.e. , the axis of the inder , then and . . . . . . . . . . .
of Iron .
As a example , suppose the section perpendicular to the axis uniform in iihape and area , we then get Rp , . . . . . . . . . . .
A special of this last case is presented by an ated tltating about a perpendicular to its through i ; centre .
, we have ' Comparing the cases of rotation , we ] an interesting illustration of how the effects of the " " " " force increasc ; the mean distance of the substance of the solid from the axis of rotation becomes larger .
If the limiting angular velocity permissible in the ellipsoid roating about a short axis be taken then the limiting velocities in the thin elliptic disc ftnd the elongated cylinder otating about their short axes\mdash ; the terial , and the length of the long dimension being the same for all\mdash ; are approx mabely 87 respectively , both on stress-difference test strain theories .
A caubion must , however , be added that 111 bodies of such elongated form rotating about a shorb axis , a suddell change in the angular velocity may prove disastrous .
-Metallograpby of lron .
Part I ANDREW .
S. , M.Inst .
C.E. Received ) ecember 1 , 1894 , \mdash ; Read January 24 , 1895 .
Secondary -crystalline )tructure in JIetallic Iron .
The term metallography appositely describes , in one word , department of metallurgical science which deals with the accu study and delineabion of the ultimate formation or of metals , a knowledge of which is of the utmost importance .
development of the science of metallurgy is destined to prove of incalculable in the study of the ultimate micro-structul.e of iron and steel .
Expcriments on the oscopic structure of iron and steel * This is more exact for a long beam of cross scction , an I ined iu the ' Quarterly Jo ' for 1888 , p. 29 .

