.388 Mr. H. M. Ward .
O Morphology and [ Dec. Ill water from the colony .
The other zooids draw in water from the !
\#166 ; exterior by the action of the cilia which line their cavities .
This i I true also of the sexual polyps in their early stages ( though this function is entirely lost as they become older ) .
Hence the zooids ar\#174 ; physiologically , as well as anatomically , identical with the youn^ polyps ; they are , in other words , polyps in a state of arrested de'-velopment .
The taking in of water is of vital importance to the organism , since the movements of the peduncle , by which the creature creeps , are .effected by forcing the water to and fro .
In this fact we find , probably , the explanation of the very early appearance of buds upon the axial polyp .
IV .
( 20 .
) The facts of development , so far as they go , indicate the .derivation of Benilla from a form related to the Bathyptilese , which probably possessed a horny axis .
This view is opposed to that of Kolliker , who considers that Benilla is related to the Penniformes only through a primitive simple " .
" ( 21 .
) The following section contains a brief discussion of the bilateral symmetry , which is strongly exhibited , both in the individual polyps and in the entire colony .
It is shown that in both .cases the bilateral structure is correlated with a bilateral environment , which indicates a causal relation between the two j and I conclude that the bilateral environment determines the bilateral structure .
( 22 .
) The last section contains a discussion of the polymorphism \#166 ; of Benilla .
.An attempt is made to show that the zooids are probably not degenerated polyps but buds in a state of arrested development , whose direct ancestors never possessed a more highly organised .structure than at present .
Other theoretical questions suggested by the investigation are discussed under the various sections in the body of the paper .
II .
" On the Morphology and the Development of the Perithe-ciuin of Meliola , a Genus of Tropical Epiphyllous Fungi .
" By H. Marshall Ward , B.A. , Fellow of Owens College , Victoria University ; late Cryptogamist to the Ceylon Government .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , F.R.S. Received November 28 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The author has investigated the life-history , structure , and development of several species of these remarkable epiphytic fungi .
The 1882 .
] Development of Perithedum of Meliola .
obJ much branched mycelium consists of jointed cylindrical hyphae with hardened brown or black cell-walls and finely granular protoplasmic contents ; these are closely attached to the epidermis of tropical plants by rudimentary haustoria , which are closely adherent to the cuticle , but do not pierce the cells of the host .
The mycelium supports setaceous appendages of various forms , simple or branched ; these setae spring from scattered points along the course of the liyphee , and are especially developed from around t e fruit-bodies , arising from richly branched hyphae in their neighbourhood Bornet considered these as forming a special part of the fungus , under the name of the " receptacle , " but development teaches that they cannot be regarded as of importance ; no special function can be assigned to the setae , and they are certainly not tubes for the outlet of the spores , as earlier observers surmised .
, Other appendages occur as short , lateral , pyriform , or flasked-shaped branchlets ; some of which become free , and develope new y budding , much as is the case with the conidia of Erysiphe and allied .
fungi .
Others give rise to the Perithecia , which are globular or sub-globular cases containing asdin their interior , and with hard black outer cell-walls . .
, , t\gt ; .
The author has studied the origin and development of the Peri- tliedum very particularly .
A short ovoid or pyriform lateral branch-let becomes cut off as a unicellular body , by a firm septum close to the parent hypha ; this cell is next divided into two by a cell-wall P-saino obliquely across it .
Of the two cells thus produced , one divides .
more slowly , and forms a mass or " core " of thin-walled cells , with ' richly developed protoplasmic contents ; the other , dividing muc more rapidly , produces a layer of cells , which gradually envelopes the " core " of thin-walled cells , and forms the outer walls of the f t ) iThe " core " of more slowly dividing thin-walled cells is an asco-gonium ; in later stages , certain of its constituents are seen to form the asd and spores , while others deliquesce and serve as nutritive material .
The outer walls of the enveloping layers become thick , hard , an dark-coloured ; the inner cells of the series deliquesce , and serve tor nutrition of the young asd , \amp ; c. , as before .
All these processes are recognised in vertical sections of the young in \#166 ; vaiious stages , and are figured and described in detail .
The asd are delicate clavate sacs , developed successively , and containing two to eight uni-tri-septate spores , the formation of which is also figured .
The germination of the spores was also examined ; each puts forth a germinal tube , which soon developes a rudimentary haus-torium , and becomes irregularly branched , finally growing forth as a mycelium like that first described .
The author examines and criticises the views held by Fries and Prof. Moseley and Mr. A. Sedgwick .
[ Dec. 1$ | Bornet ( who only worked with dried specimens ) , especially as to thei systematic position of Meliola , and the opinion that they are representative tropical species of the European Erysiphece .
He shows that !
the original cell , from which the Perith is developed by continuous !
cell-multiplication , must be regarded as containing in itself thei undifferentiated elements of an Arch and Antheridium-branch ( in the sense of De Bary and others ) ; and that after the primary division into two unequal cells , we must look upon one of these____the more slowly divided ascogenous cell\#151 ; as an Archecarpivm , which produces the asciand spores , \amp ; c. , while the other more rapidly developing cell may be considered the equivalent of the and enveloping tissues of such a fruit-body as that of Erysiphe .
Thus the sexual process , reduced to a minimum ( physiologically ) in Ery .
siphece , has here disappeared entirely , the morphological equivalents of sexual organs being also further withdrawn .
One step further , and we arrive at forms in which no trace of sexual organs exist .
The Meliolas must therefore be regarded as a group , developed along similar lines to those of the Erysiphece , \amp ; c. , but in which the sexual process has become suppressed to a still greater extent .
With respect to the pathological action of these fungi on their hosts , the investigations show that no direct parasitic action of the mycelium is recognisable ; the rudimentary do not injure the cell-contents , nor even pierce the cell-walls .
Injury results indirectly , however , because the well developed mycelium deprives the leaves of light , air , \amp ; c. , and blocks up the stomata .
III .
" Note on a Discovery , as yet unpublished , by the late Professor F. M. Balfonr , concerning the Existence of a Blastopore , and on the Origin of the Mesoblast in the Embryo of Peripatus Capensis .
" By Professor Moseley , F.R.S. , and Adam Sedgwick , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received December 4 , 1882 .
The late Professor F. M. Balfour left a considerable amount of material , both in the form of drawings and MSS .
, which he had intended to employ in the publication of a monograph on the anatomy and development of the members of the genus Peripatus , together with an account of all known species .
The portions relating to anatomy and development have been prepared for the press , and will in the course of some months appear in the " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science " in full ; but as some of the embryological results are of especial interest and of general morphological importance , it

