On the Means of facilitating the Observation of distant Stations in Geodcetical Operations .
By Lieutenant Thomas Drummond , of the Royal Engineers .
Communicated April 14 , 1826 , by Lieut.-Colonel H. Colby , F.R.S. Read May 4 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 324 .
] In consequence of the Report of a Select Committee of the House of Commons in June 1824 , it was resolved that a new survey of Ireland should be undertaken ; and the author was directed by Colonel Colby to consider the most effective means of rendering distant stations observable in the prevalent hazy state of that country .
After adverting to some of the usual means resorted to in such cases , and showing their iniefficiency for his present purpose , and after noticing some unsatisfactory trials of brilliant pyrotechnical preparations , and of the combustion of phosphorus in oxygen gas , the author attempted applying to the purpose in view the brilliant light emanating from intensely heated quicklime .
To obtain the requisite temperature , he passed a stream of oxygen through the flame of alcohol ; and this jet being directed upon a small spherical piece of quicklime placed in the focus of a proper reflector , the light which it emitted was found to have 83 times the intensity of the brightest part of the flame of an Argand burner .
Other substances , such as zirconia , magnesia , and oxide of zinc , were tried as substitutes , but were found very inferior as sources of light , when ignited , to quicklime from chalk , which moreover admits of being conveniently turned in a lathe into focal balls of any requisite dimensions .
Mr. Drummond proceeds to detail the necessary application of this system to a case of considerable difficulty that occurred at the end of last season .
Slieve Snaght , the highest hill of Innishowen ( 2100 feet ) , and 15 miles North of Londonderry , forms an important point in the triangulation connecting the North of Ireland with the Western Isles of Scotland .
On the 23rd of August a conspicuous object was placed upon its summit , that it might be observed from Divvis Hill , near Belfast ; but till the 26th of October it remained so enveloped in fog , as to frustrate all efforts at observation , the distance between the stations being 661 miles .
On the 27th of October the author proceeded to the hill ; and after some delay from tempestuous weather , brought the new instrument into use , which was brilliantly visible at the other station , and thus successfully terminated the observations .
This paper concludes with notices of some other proposed applications of these sources of intense light , more especially to certain lighthouses , in which the author thinks that the additional expense would be amply counterbalanced by the advantages of so powerful a source of illumination .
In a note appended to this paper by Mr. Herschel , he observes , that red , yellow , and green , appear to be the predominant rays iii the light emitted by the lime , but that none of the rays are entirely walting .
No black lines crossing the spectrum could be observed .
He explains the cause of the peculiar coloured shadows thrown by this light , as compared with those of oil and day-light ; and adds , that it is remarkable that the spectrum thus emitted by incandescent quicklime differs from that of the salts of lime , the characteristic colour in the latter case being thick red .

