V. " On Two New Forms of Heliotrope .
" By W. H. MILLER , M.A. , For .
Sec. R.S. , and Professor of Mineralogy in the University of Cambridge .
Received May 17 , 1865 .
A heliotrope is a mirror 0 provided with some contrivance for adjusting it so that any given distant point T may receive the light of the sun S*A term introduced to designate a substance which has varieties of property in various directions ( Thomson and Tait 's ' Natural Philosophy , ' ยง 676 ) .
t See , for example , a paper by the author , " On Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals , " Philosophical Transactionts , 1856 .
reflected from the surface of the mirror .
This instrument has been constructed on three different principles .
In Drummond 's ( Philosophical Transactions for 1826 , p. 324 ) , by a simple mechanism , a normal to the mirror is made to bisect the angle between the axes of two telescopes , one of which is pointed to T , and the other to S ; consequently T will receive the light of S reflected from 0 .
In Struve 's ( Breitengradmessung , p. 49 ) the mirror is directed by means of two sights attached to its support , which are brought into the line OT .
The heliotrope employed in the Ordnance Survey ( Ordnance Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain and Ireland , Account of Observations and Calculations of the Principal Triangles , p. 47 ) is similar to Struve 's , except that a single mark placed at a convenient distance in the line OT is substituted for the two sights .
In the two heliotropes invented by Gauss ( Astronomische Nachrichten , vol. v. p. 329 , and v. Zach 's Correspondence Astronomique , vol. v. p. 374 , and vol. vi .
p. 65 ) , in Steinheil 's ( Schumacher 's Jahrbuch fiir 1844 , p. 12 ) , and in Galton 's an optical contrivance is connected with the mirror , so as to throw a cone of sunlight in a direction opposite to the cone of sunlight reflected from the surface of the mirror , the axes of the two cones being parallel , and either very nearly or absolutely coincident .
Hence any point T , from which a portion of the former cone of light appears to proceed , will receive the light of the sun reflected from the mirror .
The heliotropes I am about to describe produce two cones of sunlight thrown in opposite directions , like those of Gauss , Steinheil , and Galton , but differ from them in having no moveable parts , and from all but Galton 's , and the sextant-heliotrope of Gauss , with a second moveable mirror , in requiring no support except the hand of the operator .
One of these consists of a plane mirror , to an edge of which are attached two very small plane reflectors , a , c , forming with one another a reentrant angle of 90 ?
, and making angles of 90 ?
with the faces of the mirror .
If a ray be reflected once by each of the two planes a , c , it is obvious that the first and last directions of the ray will be parallel to a plane containing the intersection of a , c , and will make equal angles with the intersection of a , c , which is also a normal to the face of the mirror .
Therefore , if two parallel rays fall , one on the mirror , and one on either of the planes a , c , the direction of the ray reflected from the mirror will be parallel and opposite to that of a ray reflected once at each of the planes a , c. When the small reflectors are made of bits of unsilvered glass , the brightness of the image of the sun is so far reduced after the second reflexion , as not to interfere with the direct vision of T , and the mirror can be pointed without difficulty .
The other consists of a plate of glass having parallel faces b , d , with two polished plane faces a , c on its edges , making right angles with one another , and with the faces b , d , the face d being silvered , with the exception of a portion at the angle ade not larger than the pupil of the eye .
It is easily seen that if a ray of light incident upon 6 , and refracted through b , so as to be reflected internally once at each of the planes a , c , emerge through d , the planes of incidence and emergence will be parallel , and the incident and emergent rays will make equal angles with the edge ac , and therefore with a normal to the faces b , d. Hence the portion of the incident ray which is reflected from the mirror will proceed in a direction parallel and opposite to that portion of the ray which , after internal reflexion at a and c , emerges through d. In order to ascertain that the construction of such an instrument presented no unforeseen difficulties , I requested Mr. T. E. Butters , of 4 , Crescent , Belvedere Road , the well-known maker of sextant-mirrors and artificial horizons , to form the faces a , c on the edges of a piece of plate glass , and then had the face d coated with chemically reduced silver .
Upon trial , the emergent light was found to be too bright ; but after smoking the angle adc in the flame of a candle , in order to reduce the intensity of the light , it became perfectly easy to make the centre of the image of the sun coincide with the object T seen by direct vision .
An image of the sun of suitable intensity for pointing might be obtained by attaching to the edge of the mirror a piece of tinted glass , of the form of the corner abed , with the faces b , d parallel to the plane of the mirror .

