On the Composition of Chloride of Barium .
By Edward Turner , M.D. Professor of Chemistry in the University of London .
Communicated by Dr. Dionysius Lardner , F.R.S. Read May 14 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 291 .
] The frequent employment of chloride of barium in delicate chemical investigations , renders an exact knowledge of its composition peculiarly desirable ; and this has become a more important object of inquiry since it has been made by Dr. Thomson the basis of his calculations of the chemical equivalents of sulphuric acid , and of thirteen metals and their protoxides .
He has deduced from his experiments with the chloride of barium the number 36 as the equivalent of chlorine ; 70 as that of barium ; and 78 as that of baryta ; whence the equivalent of the chloride of barium would be 106 ; and accordingly , on mixing this quantity of the chloride with 88 parts of sulphate of potash , each being previously dissolved in separate portions of distilled water , he finds a complete double decomposition has taken place ; the resulting sulphate of baryta , reduced to dryness , weighing 118 parts , and the muriate of potash yielding 76 parts of chloride of potassium .
Hence he infers that 40 is the equivalent number for sulphuric acid , and 48 that for potash .
Berzelius , however , maintained that this experiment , as well as the deductions from it , are not exact .
Dr. Thomson having , in consequence of Berzelius 's objections , repeated his experiments , still asserts their accuracy .
The author of the present paper investigated the subject with the greatest care , employing materials in a state of perfect purity , and obtained results which coincided with those of Berzelius .
He details the precautions he took for ensuring the conditions of perfect purity in the substances with which his experiments were made , and to the neglect of which he traces some of the errors which he imputes to Dr. Thomson 's analysis .
But there exists also a more radical cause of error in the method employed by that chemnist ; for Dr. Turner finds that when .
solutions of muriate of baryta and of sulphate of potash are mixed together , a small portion of the latter salt adheres tenaciously to the sulphate of baryta , which is precipitated , and escapes decomposition .
By employing different processes the author avoids this source of fallacy ; first , from the chloride of barium , previously dissolved in water , he throws down sulphate of baryta by adding sulphuric acid ; and , secondly , he effects a precipitation from a similar solution of the chloride , by nitrate of silver , and infers the quantity of chloride from that of the fused horn-silver obtained , having previously determined , by a separate series of experiments , the exact composition of horn-silver .
The conclusion he draws from his researches is , that 100 parts of chloride of barium correspond to 137*63 parts of the chloride of silver , which latter substance contains 34-016 parts of chlorine , and therefore leaves for the proportion of barium 65*984 parts .
The real equivalent of barium , however , will depend upon that of chlorine , which is itself not yet satisfactorily determined .

