~ P HIL OSOP H. T RA NSAC T. No. 371 .
2 6 4 1 8 5 9 7 B FIG. 1 .
CA GG E FIG. II .
FF A B DE D hhh CC AA FIG. III .
BB 10 .
11 .
The natural Figure and Bigness of ye Stones .
12 .
13 .
V. An Account of the manner of bending Planks in His Majesty 's Yards at Deptford , &amp;c. by a Sand-heat , invented by Captain Cumberland .
By Robert Cay , Esq ; THe place , where the Planks lie to be softned in the Stove , is between two Brick-Walls ; of such a length , height and distance from each other , as suffice to admit the largest , or to hold a good number of the smaller Sort : the bottom is of thick Iron Plates , supported by strong Bars ; under the middle of which , are two Fire-places , whose Flews carry the Flame towards the Ends .
The Planks are laid in Sand ; the lowest about six or eight Inches above the Iron-Plates , they are well covered with the Sand , and Boards laid over all , to keep in the Heat .
The Sand is moistned with warm Water , ( for which purpose they have a Cauldron adjoining to the Stove ) and if the Timber be large , and intended to be very much bent , so that it must lie long in the Stove , they water the Sand again , once in 8 or 10 Hours .
When it is judged to be soft enough , the Sand is removed ; and the Workmen carry away their respective Planks , to the several Places , where they are to be used ; and having first nailed a thin Board upon the out-side , to preserve the Plank from Bruises , they fix one part in its proper place , and bring to the others , by any power they can most conveniently apply .
This Work seems to be performed with wonderful Ease ; notwithstanding some we saw were so knotty , that the Builders assured us , they cou 'd not have brought them to that Curvature by the former Methods .
Those we saw put in between others , very exactly fitted the Spaces they had been cut for ; and the Workmen told us , they had made no Allowance either for the swelling , or shrinking of the Wood .
This Method excells that of burning the Planks over an open Fire in several respects : particularly , that no part of the Wood is destroyed , but remains of the same Dimensions ; at least very nearly ; a Plank of the breadth of 16 Inches being said not to alter above 1/ 20 part of an Inch .
The Edges of the Plank are preserved ; and consequently the Work must be much firmer , and the Calking last longer .
The extraordinary softness of the Wood , while it is warm , makes it easily bend to any Figure necessary in Ship-building , which it holds very well , if they have occasion to take it off again after it is cold ~ whereas the Plank bent by burning , would start when loosened ; and could only be fixed to the Timbers by such a force , as was able to overcome the Resistance occasioned by the Spring of the Plank .
It likewise adapts it self very readily to the Surface of the Timbers , if they happen to be uneven .
They showed us the Gun Deck-Clamps in a Ship of the Second Rate ; which are very large Planks , bent and twisted in so peculiar a manner , that they never could by any other Method , bend them into that Form , but used to cut them into Shape .
The whole Operation is performed with much less trouble to the Carpenters , as well as at less Expense ; and they hope the Wood will be more durable ; as ~tis evident , from the deep Tincture the Sand receives , that a considerable quantity of Sap comes out of the Oak , while its in the Stove : and a large Plank was observed by the Workmen or Officers of the Yard , to weigh some Pounds less , when it was taken out .
A Plank five Inches thick requires five or six Hours to make it fit for bending ; and the Time requisite for others , seems to be in a Duplicate Propottion to their thickness .
Explanation of the Figures .
Fig. 1 .
Represents a Plank , in the Buttocks of a Second Rate Ship , whose length from A , to C. is three Feet , and thickness ( A F ) 41/ 4 Inches , the end C , of this Plank was bent 12 or 13 Inches from the straight Line AB Fig. 2 .
and 3 .
are Sections of the Stove .
A. A. the Fire-places .
B. B. the Ash-holes .
C. C. the Flews under the Iron bottom .
D. D. the two Chimneys .
E. the place for the Planks and Sand .
F. F. the two Brick-walls .
G. G. two inclined planes , for the Men to stand on , &amp;c. when they put in , or take out Planks , or water the Sand .
h. h. The bottom of the Stove , made of Iron .
i. i. The Grates to lay the Fewel on .

