Wm. Charles Henry , M.D. , Physician to the Manchester Royal lnfirmary .
Communicated by Wm. Henry , M.D. , F.R.S. It has long been a subject of controversy among physiologists whether muscular contraction is the immediate consequence of the action of a stimulus on the muscular fibre , or whether it is necessarily dependent on a change taking place in the nerve distributed to the muscle , and excited by the stimulus .
This question , the author observes , is one which , from its very nature , is incapable of a direct solution , because the intimate connection of nervous fibres with every part of the muscles renders it impossible to distinguish on which of these classes of textures the impression of the stimulus is primarily made .
The continuance of the motions of the heart after the destruction of the brain and spinal cord , and even after the entire removal of the heart from the body , has been adduced as an argument of the independence of the contractile property of the muscular fibre : but this argument the author considers as inconclusive , because the nervous fibres remaining in the heart , and expanded on the interior of its cavities , may still be capable of performing their usual functions , and act as the medium of excitation to the muscular fibres : an hypothesis strongly supported by the analogy of the voluntary muscles , which , though usually excited to action by changes taking place in the central portions of the ner ?
vous system , may yet , when removed from this influence , be made to contract by irritations applied to the trunks of the nerves that supply them .
As narcoric poisons act exclusively upon the nervous system , the author conceived that they might afford the means of eliminating the action of the nerves , and thus enable us to discover what share they contribute towards muscular contraction .
On applying the empyreumatic oil of tobacco , or the hydrocyanic acid , to thesciatic nerves of a rabbit , he found that the functions of that part of the nerve which was in contact with the poison was destroyed , and that irritations applied to that part no longer excited contractions in the muscles .
But when the portion which had been so affected was cut off , and the galvanic wire applied to that extremity of the nerves which remained attached to the muscle , contractions were produced .
Similar results were obtained when the poison was applied directly to the brain .
When , on the other hand , the poison was applied to mucous surfaces so as rapidly to extinguish life , the muscles throughout the whole body were paralysed and lost all capability of being excited to contraction .
The inefficacy of opium applied to the cardiac nerves in arresting the motions of the heart has often been alleged as a proof that those motions are independent of the nerves .
But the author found on trial that a solution of opium injected into the cavities of the heart , or introduced into the intestine , immediately arrested the muscular actions of these organs .
These phenomena appear to the author to accord best with the hypothesis that the immediate antecedent of the contractions of the muscular fibre is a change in the ultimate nervous filament distri ?
buted to that fibre .

