XXIV .
On the Effect of westerly Winds in raising the Level of the Britzsh Channel .
In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P R. S. By James Rennell , Esq. F. R. S. Read June 2 , 1809 .
DEAR SIR , IN the " Observations on a Current that often prevails to the " , Westward of Scilly , " which I had the honour to lay before the Royal Society many years ago , I slightly mentioned , as connected with the same subject , the effect of strong westerly winds , in raising the level of the British Channel ; and the escape of the superincumbent waters , through the Strait of Dover , into the then lower level of the North Sea .
The recent loss of the Britannia East India ship , Captain BIRCH , on the Goodwin Sands , has impressed this fact more strongly on my mind ; as I have no doubt that her loss was occasioned by a current , produced by the running off of the accumulated waters ; a violent gale from the westward then prevailing .
The circumstances under which she was lost , were generally these In January last she sailed from her anchorage between Dover and the South Foreland ( on her way to Portsmouth ) , and was soon after assailed by a violent gale between the west and south-west .
The thick weather preventing a view of the lights , the pilot was left entirely to the reckoning and the lead ; and when it was concluded that the ship was quite clear of the Goodwin , she struck on the north-eastern extremity of the southernmost of those sands .
And this difference between the reckoning ( after due allowance being made for thei tides } and the actual position , I conclude was owing to the northerly stream of current , which caught the ship when she driftedto the back , or eastern side of the Goodwin .
TIhe fact of the high level of the Channel , during strong winds , between the W. and SW. , cannot be doubted : because the increased height of the tides in the southern ports , at such .
times , is obvious to every discerning eye .
Indeed , the form of the upper part of the Channel , in particular , is such as to receive and retain , for a time , the principal part of the water forced in ; as may be seen by the sketch ( No. 2 ) : and as a part of this water is continually escaping by the Strait of Dover , " it will produce a current ; which must greatly disturb the reckonings of such ships as navigate the Strait , when thick weather prevents the land , or the lights of the Forelands , and the North Goodwin , from being seen .
I observe in a new publication of Messrs. LAWRIE and aWHITTLE , entitled " Sailing Directions , &amp;c. for the British Chan- .
" nel , 80o8 , " that throughout the Channel , it is admitted by the experienced persons whom he quotes , that strong SW. winds " cause the flood tide to run an hour , or more , longer , " than at common times : " or in other words , that a curreznt overcomes the ebb tide , a full hour : not to mention how much it may accelerate the one , and retard the other , during the remainder of the time^ , It is also asserted , that in the mouth of the Channel ; , the extraordinary rise of tide , in stormy weather , is ten feet : that is , at common springs twenty , and in storms n thirty feet .
See pages 28 , 41 , 70 , and i33 .
401 It is evident , that the direction of the current under consideration , will bet influenced by the form and position of the opposite shores , at the entrance of the Strait ; and as these are materially different , so must the direction of the stream , be , within the infltence of each side , respectively .
For instance , on the English side , the current having taken the direction of the shore , between Dungeness and the South Foreland , will set generally to the north-east , through that side of the Strait .
( See No. i. ) But , on the French side , circumstances must be very different : for the shore of Boulogne trending almost due north , will give the current a like direction , since it cannot turn sharp round the Point of Grisnez , to the north-eastward ; but must preserve a great proportion of its northerly course , until it mixes with the waters of thy North Sea .
And it may be remarked , that the Britannia , when driven to the eastward of the Goodwin , would fall into this very line of current .
There is another circumstance to be taken into the account ; which is , that the shore of Boulogne presenting a direct obstacle to the water impelled by the westerly winds , will occasion a higher level of the sea , there , than elsewhere ; and , of course a stronger line of current towards the Goodwin .
( See again No. .
) It must , therefore , be inferred , that a ship , passing the Strait of Dover , at the back of the Goodwin Sands , during the prevalence of strong W. or SW. winds , will be carried many miles to the northward of her reckoning ; and if compelled to depend on it , may be subject to great hazard , from the Goodwin .
It v ill be understood , of course , that although the stream J"i"-~.~.~k s._l~'~l Jh nP%KNDCCCIX .
J7 te : Copy / Goodw in Ge6'ral ?
Shtd , idcA ?
0lrtiGL / 20 ; tl ?
~f~jCUlcr~ 1 Lj~LiL I/ )Dover i ' 0 Af I 4 &amp; V CZ 14 10 Y'Lr " I X ... 'IA"/ tII Nntic Miles .
cl , ?
-z , t , ' , " a,. .
, i.S 'A I IXJ'l .
teWV.p .
40 ... ... .6m ' i llIlli ] ?
Copieli / lC bz v i/ w 6oodwil ' Sandslfij'or Genra ?
Z y Rvy ; 7 , 3ai'2 7/ I , V , a27 , &amp; R 7 xC ? .
r ?
'__ _a ~ of current , alone , has been considered here ( in order to simplify the subject ) , yet that , in the application of these remarks , the regular tides must also be taken into the account .
But from my ignorance of their detail , I can say no more than that I conceive that the great body of the tide from the Channel , must be subject to much the same laws , as the current itself .
The opposite tide will doubtless occasion various inflexions of the current , as it blends itself with it ; or may absolutely suspend it : and the subject can never be perfectly understood , without a particular attention to the velocity and direction of the tides in moderate weather , to serve as a ground-work.* I am , with great respect , Dear Sir , your faithful humble servant , J. RENNELL .

