16 On the Nervous System of Aurelia aurita .
[ Jan. 10 , narial passage , and are termed by me the " septo-maxillaries , " attain their highest development in serpents and lizards .
I do not find them in the tortoises and crocodiles , but they re-appear\#151 ; very small_____in carinate birds , in connection , as in the snakes , with the vomers and labial cartilages .
In the mandible the upper part of Meckel 's cartilage ossifies as the " articulate , " and now we get the full number of the splints , namely , five\#151 ; the dentary , sphenial , coronoid , angular , and surangular .
The pier is a single bone , the quadrate .
These six pairs of bones forming the free mandible occur also in the lizards , crocodiles , and in most birds In tortoises they are fewer , and in gallinaceous birds I have failed to find the coronoid piece at any stage .
The tongue of the snake shows no cartilage in its structure ; neither cerato-hyal , basi-hyal , or thyro-hyal , have appeared in any of my dissections .
J IV .
" Observations on the Nervous System of Aurelia aurita .
" By Edward Albert 'Schafer , Assistant Professor of Phy-siology in University College , London .
Communicated by W. Sharpey , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received October 31 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The anther describes the nervous system of Aurelia as consisting in addition to the dithocysts and certain tracts of specially modified epithelium m their neighbourhood , of an interlacement of nerve-fibres covering the whole of the under surface of the umbrella and lying between the ectodermal epithelium and the muscular sheet .
Bach nerve-fibre presents near the middle of its course a nucleated enlargement in tne shape of a bipolar nerve-cell , which is thus interpolated in the course of the fibre .
With regard to these nerve-fibres it is re-marked-firstly , that they are of limited length , seldom exceeding four millimetres ; second^ , that they never come into actual continuity with other fibres , although they frequently run closely parallel for a certain distance , and often form extremely intricate interlacements by breuTm|hl0vge " d a , nTb6r '\#163 ; fibreS ' 1116 fibres occasionally branch They are described as ending generally by finely-tapered extremities , which are m closecontact with the substance of themus cular fibres , but sometimes the termination of the nerve is dilatod endap ?
afod nUOleafa\gt ; d eXpaMion ' proba % a Primitive form of motorial The^itlioo vstdr.land 'e'"tl0Ilfi of the lithooysts are then treated of .
I Jd d described as consisting of an ectodermic covering and an endodermic core , the two being nearly eveiywhere separately a Prof. Pedler on Cobra Poison .
1878 .
] thin layer of the jelly-like mesoderm .
The ectodermic covering consists , except over the free end where the cells are simple and flattened , of long columnar , ciliated cells , the fixed ends branching into delicate fibres , which form a stratum underneath the epithelium .
A similar condition of the ectoderm is described as met with in two depressions of the surface , one being situate above , and the other below , the litho-cyst ; and the resemblance which the elongated epithelium cells with the subjacent granular-looking , but in reality fibrous stratum , exhibits to the developing central nervous structures in the vertebrate embryo is pointed out .
These parts , in fact , probably represent the first beginnings\#151 ; phylogenetically\#151 ; of a central " nervous system .
Some of the cells of the ectodermic covering of the lithocyst are pigmented , and these cells are provided each with an excessively long and fine ( sensorial ) filament instead of with vibratile cilia .
The endodermic core of the lithocyst consists of a prolongation from the nutritive canal of the margin , which at the terminal part of the lithocyst is continued as a solid projection , the cells of which contain calcareous crystals or otoliths .
A small lithocyst is further described , in which the otolithic prolongation of the nutritive canal penetrated the ectodermic covering , and projected freely into the surrounding medium .
Reference is made io the observations of Haeckel upon the nervous system of Greryonia and Cunina , and to a recently published preliminary notice by Oscar and Richard Hertwig , of the structure of the nerve-tracts and sense-organs in various other genera of Medusae .
January 17 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On Cobra Poison .
" By Alexander Peddler , F.C.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Dr. Frankland , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Royal School of Mines .
Received November 1 , 1877 .
On my arrival in India my attention was strongly directed to the enormous number of deaths , annually resulting from the bites of poisonous snakes .
Statistics of the deaths from such causes are-VOL .
XXVII .
C

