Further Experiments on the Spleen .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 25 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 133 .
] The author having established by the experiments which he lately communicated to the Society , that when the pylorus is closed by a ligature , fluids pass from the stomach into the circulation through the medium of the spleen , has since that time conducted a new course of experiments to determine whether there is the same passage also in the natural state of these parts .
Six asses were the subjects of as many experiments .
To the three first , tincture of rhubarb was given , to the quantity of a pint and a half in three doses of half a pint each , with the same quantity of water .
The fourth and fifth had powdered rhubarb made into a bolus , and the sixth took three pints of infusion of rhubarb .
When the asses were killed , equal quantities of blood were taken from the splenic vein and from the left auricle of the heart , or from the vena cava , and suffered to coagulate , that the serum of each might be obtained for examination by alkalies , in comparison with each other , and with the urine of the animal , as well as with infusions of its spleen and of its liver in water .
In the first of the experiments with tincture of rhubarb , the infilsion of the spleen had a tint of colour equal in intensity to that of sixty drops of tincture of rhubarb in two ounces of water ; the serum from the blood of the splenic vein , to fifteen drops ; the serum from the auricle , to three drops .
The urine had so deep a tinge that it nearly resembled the pur9 tincture itself .
In the second and third experiments the results were nearly similar , but less intense .
But in those asses to which the rhubarb boluses had been given without any fluid , the spleen was found in its contracted state , with cells scarcely visible , and without sensible impregnation by the rhubarb ; but the caecum and colon contained several quarts of fluid , in which the rhubarb was more evident both to sight and smell than in the stomach .
The urine also was highly impregnated with the colour of the rhubarb .
The effects from infusion of rhubarb were perfectly similar to those from the tincture , but the colours occasioned by it were not so intense .
In the course of these experiments , an attempt was made to ascertain whether the blood from the splenic vein contained more serum than that from otlier parts of the body ; but the difference observable was not so great as it was afterwards found might be occasioned by other circumstances .
From the experiments contained in his former and present paper , Mr. Home considers it ascertained that the spleen is sometimes found distended to double the bulk which it occupies in its more contracted state .
In the distended state there is a cellular structure distinctly visible , but in the contracted state these cells cannot be seen without a magnifying-glass ; the difference between these states depending upon the quantity of liquid that was contained in the stomach before death .
If the fluids contained in the stomnach be coloured with tincture of rhubarb , the spleen and the blood in the splenic vein are coloured also , more strongly than the liver or blood contained in other veins of the body ; so that the colour cannot arrive at the spleen through the ordinary course of the circulation .
But when the stomach is kept without liquids , although the colouring matter be carried through the system to the urine by the ordinary channel , no particular evidence of it is to be met with in the spleen or its vessels ; but the principal absorption takes place from the cecum and colon .
No vessels , however , have been discovered by which the communication between the stomach and spleen is carried on ; but the evidence is too strong to leave a doubt on the mind of the author as to their existence .

