I. " ( On the relations between the Elastic Force of AqueousVapour , at ordinary temperatures , and its Motive Force in producing Currents of Air in Vertical Tubes .
" By W. D. CuOWNE , M.D. , F.R.C.P. ComunUnicated by JOHN BISHOP , Esq. Received March 15 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) In 1853 the author of this communicationi made a considerable nIumber of experiments which demonstrated that when a tube , open at both ends , was placed vertically in the undisturbed atmosp)here of a closed room , there was any upward movement of the air within the tube of sufficient force to keep any anemometer of light weight in a state of constant revoluition , though with a variable velocity .
An abstract of the results of these experiments was printed in the ' Proceedings ' of the Society for Junie 1855 .
In order to fur there investigate the immediate cause or nature of the force which set the machinie in motioni , the author instituted a series of fresh experiments .
These experiments were made in the room described in the former communication , guarded in the same manner against disturbing causes , and with suich extra precautions as will be hereafter explained .
The apparatus used was a tube 96 inches long and 6175 inches uniformdiameter , the material zinc .
The upper extremity was open to its full extent ; at the lower , the aperture was a lateral one only , into which a piece of zinic tube 3 inches in diameter , and bent once at right angles , was accurately fitted with the outer orifice upward .
Within this orifice , which was about 5 inches above the level of the floor , an anemometer , described in the former paper , and weighing 7 grains , was placed in the horizonital position .
About midway between the upper and the lower extremity of the tube , a very delicate differenitial thermorneter was firmly and permanently fixed , with onie bulb outside and the other inside , and the apertuire through which the latter was inserted completely closed .
The scale was on the stem of the outer builb .
The restults of a long series of observations were recorded .
The state of the dry and the wet bulb of the hygrometer , as well as the indications of the differential thermometer , was nioted , in coninexion with the number of revolutions perform ( d per minuite by the anemometer .
While the differential thermiomiieter inidicated the same relative differenices betweeni the heat of the atmosphere within and without the tube , the velocity of the revolutions was found to vary considerably .
This variation was disco-ered to be chiefly , if not wholly , dependent on the elasticity of vapour , due to the hygrometrical state of the atmosphere , as estimated from the dryand the wet-bulb thermomieters , and calcuilated from the tables of Regnault .
240 observations were recorded and afterwards separated into groups , each group comprising those in which the differential thermometer gave the same indication .
If in either of these groups we separate into two classes the cases in which the elasticity was highest , from the cases in which it was lowest , and multiplv the mean of each with the corresponding mean of the number of the revolutions of the anemometer , their product is nearly a constant , thus showing that the velocity of ascent of the atmospheric vapour is inversely as its elasticity ; and hence it follows that the velocity of the ascending current in the tube varies inverselv as the density or elastic force of the vapour suspended in the atmosphere .
This was rendered evident by the aid of Tables appended to the paper .
Wbhen the mean elastic force of vapour calculated from the dry and the wet bulbs is multiplied by the constant , 13 83 , the result gives the whole amount of water in a vertical column of the atmosphere in inches ; it follows therefore that when the difference of temperature between the external air and that in the tube , as shown by the differential thermometer , is constant , the velocity of the current in the tube varies inversely as the weight of the vapour suspended in the atmosphere .
In an Appendix the author describes some additional experiments , made with the view of ascertaining whether the readings of the differential thermometer were mainly due to actual changes of temperature within the tube , or to extraneous causes acting on the external bulb .
He found that when the external bulb was covered with woollen cloth or protected by a zinc tube of about 4 inches diameter and 6 inches long , the temperature of the bulb was increased about 2 ?
on the scale of the instrument , and that when they were remoived the prior reading was restored , while the number of revolutions of the ainemometer per minute was not appreciably affected by the change .
This explains why the readingsi of the ditferenitial thermometer varied from 330.0 to 3305o as described in the paper , without producing a corresponiding change in the velocity of the anemometer .
For the purpose of obtaining a more correct estimate of the influence of a given increase of heat within the tube , the author introduced into the tube at its lowest extremity , a phial containing eight ounces of water at the temperature of 100( Fabr .
, corked so that no vapour could escape .
The result showed that in thirteen observations a quanitity of heat equal to an increase of one-tenth of a degree on the scale of the differential thermometer , was equivalent to a mean velocity of the anemometer of 3-6 revolutions per mintute , the greatest number being 3 8 , the least 3-3 per minute .
These observations render it still more evident , that if a higher temperature within the tube had beeni the main cause of the revolutions of the anemometer , the variations in their velocity would not have been in such exact relation to the elastic force of the atmospheric vapour , as has been shown to be the case .
They also lead to the inference , that the apparent excess of heat within the tlube alluded to by the author in his Paper read before the Society in 1855 did not really exist , and to the conelusion that , if suIch excess had been present , the anemometer would not have been brought to a state of rest by depriving the air of the room of a portion of the moisture ordinarily suspended in it .

