112 Sir Charles A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ Apr. 19 , Y. " On the Compounds of Ammonia with Selenium Dioxide .
" By Sir Charles A. Cameron , Y.P.I.C. , F.B.C.S.I. , and John Macallan , F.I.C. Communicated by Professor Dewar , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1888 .
The following experiments were undertaken with the object of determining the action of ammonia upon selenium dioxide .
They have resulted in the discovery of two new compounds , which , from what has been ascertained regarding their constitution , may , perhaps , be best designated by the term selenosainates or ammonium salts of an acid\#151 ; selenosamic\#151 ; yet to be isolated .
Preparation of Neutral Ammonium Ammonia , which bad been carefully dried by passing through a series of potash tubes , was led into a solution of selenium dioxide in absolute alcohol .
After being absorbed for some time , minute crystals commenced to deposit , and when complete precipitation had taken place , the liquid portion was filtered off , the crystals washed with alcohol , and dried over sulphuric acid in a vacuum .
The compound formed as above described is a deliquescent salt , which separates from its solution in alcoholic ammonia in minute , but very well-defined hexagonal prisms and pyramids both forms often occurring in combination .
It is a very unstable substance , continuously liberating ammonia , and tending to the formation of a more stable acid salt .
Some of the crystals which had been placed in a large stoppered bottle were found after some weeks to be entirely converted into large crystals of the acid salt .
It also loses ammonia when treated with alcohol or water ; and when its aqueous solution is evaporated in a vacuum , crystals of the acid salt remain .
When heated , it is at once converted into the acid salt .
On account of its instability , it is best prepared in a partial vacuum , and when dried placed in a stoppered bottle , which should be quite full and kept in a cool place .
In this way it may be preserved of definite composition for a considerable time .
It is with difficulty , and only partially , converted into ammonium selenite by the action of water upon it .
W hen barium chloride is added to its neutral aqueous solution , only a faint cloudiness is produced , until it is heated , when a slight precipitate forms , but even after standing for weeks and long-continued boiling , only a portion of the selenium precipitates .
Addition of excess of ammonia to the solution , however , precipitates a basic barium salt It is but sparingly soluble in cold alcoholic ammonia .
T6658 gram of solution from which crystals had deposited , left a residue of 0-0134 gram , reduced to acid salt , which is equivalent to a solubility 1888.1 Compounds of Ammonia with Selenium Dioxide .
113 of one part in 116 at 12 ' .
Heated with the alcoholic ammonia it dissolves freely , but on cooling , the solution remains long supersaturated , crystals continuing to deposit for several days .
It is very slightly volatile at ordinary temperatures , both in a vacuum and in a current of air .
As might be expected , potash at once liberates ammonia from it .
Sulphurous acid and stannous chloride reduce it with separation of selenium .
It is only slightly affected by hydrochloric or nitric acid in the cold , but strong sulphuric acid reacts violently upon it , a portion of the salt being sublimed by the heat evolved .
Chlorine passed through its aqueous solution converts it completely into ammonium selenate , \#151 ; a reaction which was taken advantage of for its analysis .
07820 gram was dissolved in water , saturated with chlorine , and barium chloride added .
The resulting barium selenate weighed 1*5150 gram , equivalent to a percentage of 76*84 of selenium dioxide .
The ammonia was estimated by Kjel-dahl 's process , slightly modified on account of the volatility of the substance .
0*5651 gram was mixed roughly with potassium permanganate in a small strong flask by means of a glass rod , after which a thin tube containing 10 c.c. of sulphuric acid mixture was lowered into it , and broken by shaking the flask after it had been well secured with an india-rubber cork .
It was then heated to 150 ' for one hour in a paraffin bath .
The contents of the flask distilled with potash yielded 0*13175 gram of ammonia , equivalent to a percentage of 23*32 .
The results obtained agree with the composition\#151 ; 2NH3 , Se03 = NH4 , Se03(NH3 ) .
Calculated .
Found .
Se02 ... .
76*53 ... .
76*84 nh3 23*47 23*32 100*00 100*16 The original alcoholic solution from which the crystals had deposited , was found to contain selenium .
In order to ascertain in what form it existed , a portion of the solution was evaporated to dryness in a vacuum .
The residue weighing 0*666 gram , treated as before , yielded 1*285 gram of barium selenate , equivalent to 76*53 per cent , of selenium dioxide , the theoretical amount in the above compound , showing that a portion remained in solution after the crystals had deposited ?
It was considered a matter of interest to ascertain how much of the nitrogen in this salt would be precipitated by platinum chloride .
0*5772 gram was accordingly taken , platinum chloride poured upon it , alcohol added , and the mixture allowed to stand in the cold .
The double chloride obtained weighed 1*5502 gram , equivalent to a percentage of 20*59 of ammonia .
A second estimation in i 2 114 Compounds of Ammonia wit Selenium Dioxide .
[ Apr. 19 , which 0*4153 gram was taken , yielded 1*1206 gram of the double chloride , equivalent to 20*69 per cent , of ammonia .
In a third estimation , 0*3835 gram was evaporated down with platinum chloride , but the double chloride obtained , 1*0237 gram , showed a rather smaller percentage of ammonia , namely , 20*52 .
The mean of the first two results , 20*64 , is equal to 87*94 per cent , of the total ammonia , and indicates that in addition to the basic nitrogen , about three-fourths of the nitrogen contained in the radical of the salt is precipitated by platinum chloride .
Preparation of Acid Ammonium Selenosamate .
A solution of the neutral salt in absolute alcohol was boiled down on the water-bath until crystals were deposited .
The liquid portion was then drained off , and the crystals washed with alcohol , and dried in a vacuum .
On examination , they proved to consist of an acid salt .
It was also found that exposure of the neutral salt in a vacuum over sulphuric acid for thirty hours was sufficient to convert it into the same acid compound .
A portion of the salt obtained in the latter way was submitted to analysis .
For estimation of the selenium , 0*2 gram was dissolved in water , saturated with chlorine , and precipitated with barium chloride .
The resalting barium selenate weighed 0*409 gram , equivalent to a percentage of 81*11 of selenium dioxide .
In a second estimation , 0*4268 gram yielded 0*8761 gram of barium selenate , equivalent to 81*42 per cent , of selenium dioxide .
Kjeldahl 's process was found to be unsuitable in this case for estimating the ammonia , the amount yielded by it being much too low , although a very high temperature was maintained for a considerable time .
Combustion with soda-lime also gave insufficient results , owing to a portion of the substance being decomposed by the heat employed , with evolution of nitrogen .
Somewhat better results were obtained by Dumas ' process : 0*4035 gram yielded 49*9 c.c. of nitrogen at 12 ' and 771*6 mm. , equivalent to a percentage of 18*09 of ammonia .
An estimation of the selenium in the dried crystals was also made : 0*1523 gram yielded 0*3134 gram of barium selenate , equivalent to 81*62 per cent , of selenium dioxide .
The results thus obtained agree with the formula 3NH3,2Se02 = NH4 , H , ( Se02NH2)2 .
SeOo NH3 Prepared in vacuum .
Crystallised _______a________ from alcohol .
Calculated .
lT 2 .
3 .
4 .
81*42 ... .
81*11 ... .
81*62 ... .
81*30 18*09 ____ \#151 ; ---- \#151 ; ----- 18-70 The salt thus obtained is deliquescent , and easily soluble in alcohol , from which it separates in large prisms .
2*0270 grams of saturated solution left a residue weighing 0*1191 gram , showing a solubility of 1888 .
] On the Logarithmic Law of A tomic one part in sixteen of absolute alcohol at 14 ' .
No hydrate was obtained by evaporating its aqueous solution , but the same crystalline forms were deposited as from alcohol .
With barium chloride it behaves similarly to the neutral salt , a partial precipitation taking place only with difficulty .
It possesses much greater stability than the neutral salt , but like the latter it is reduced by sulphurous acid and stannous chloride , and oxidised by chlorine .
Potash decomposes it with evolution of ammonia , but hydrochloric , nitric , or sulphuric acid has only a slight action upon it in the cold .
Kept in a vacuum or in a current of air , it is appreciably volatile at ordinary temperatures .
When heated strongly , a portion of it sublimes unchanged , part of it is converted into ammonium selenite , while the remainder is decomposed into ammonia , water , nitrogen , and a residue of fused selenium .
In order to estimate the amount of ammonia precipitated by platinum chloride , O3140 gram was taken , which yielded 06234 gram of the double chloride , equivalent to 15-26 per cent , of ammonia , the amount thus precipitated being equal to 81'60 per cent , of the total amount of ammonia in the salt .
Relation of the Selenosamates to Sulphur Compounds .
It is stated that a compound is formed by the action of ammonia on sulphur dioxide , but the description of its properties shows that it does not correspond with the selenosamates .
The latter bodies correspond more closely with the compounds which sulphur trioxide forms with ammonia .
The molecule , Se02 , therefore , in these reactions acts similarly to S03 , rather than to what is usually regarded as its sulphur analogue , namely S02 .
In conclusion , we are engaged at present in the production of other selenosamates , and hope to give an account of them at an early date .
VI .
" On the Logarithmic Law of Atomic Weights .
" By G. Johnstone Stony , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received April 16 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This memoir is divided into five sections .
Section 1.\#151 ; When Newlands pointed out the dependence of the atomicity and other properties of some of the chemical elements upon the order in which their atomic weights succeed one another , and especially when this law was extended by Mendelejeff to all the elements , it became manifest that there exists a mathematical relation between a series of numbers and the successive atomic weights of the elements .

