]\gt ; By A. O. RANKINE , D.Sc .
, Fellow of and Assistant in the Department of Physics in University College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. A. W. Porter , F.R.S. Received January 16 , 1916 .
) In a previous communioation*I have described the measurements I have made of the viscosity of bromiue vapour .
The method used for this purpose involved the distillation of bromine from one vessel to another through a capillary tube .
The pressure difference between the two ends of the capillary was established by maintaining the two vessels at suitable different temperatures , and the rate of transpiration of the bromine vapour was estimated by observing the volume of the liquid bromine which evaporated in a , given time .
It was hoped that the same method could be applied to iodine by adjusting the temperatures of evaporation and condensation to values above the melting point of iodine and measuring the transpiration rate by means of the disappearance of liquid from the evaporation vessel .
Preliminary experiments , however , soon revealed the fact that the liquid iodine was not sufficiently mobile , and its surface was too indefinite and variable in shape to allow small changes of volume to be served .
It was , ffierefore , found .
neoessar ) to modify in several respects the method used with We may now test how far the results for iodine fall into line with the empirical laws which I have shown to hold for bromine and chlorine .
The critical temperature of iodine is or 78 absolute .
The ratio is therefore .
This compares with for the same : ratio in the case of chlorine and for bromine .
the difficulties .
of accurately the critical temperatures of these gases , and also the value of Sutherland 's constant , these three ratios equal within the accuracy of the experiments .
Further , if we calculate by extrapolation of Sutherland 's equation the viscosity of iodine vapour at the critical temperature , we obtain the value , and the value of A is the atomic weight , is , which is practically equal to the same ratio for chlorine and From LandoIt and Bornstein 's Tables .
Phii .
Mag vol. 36 , ) 1893 ) .

