439 A Simple Form of Micro-Balance for Determining the Densities of Small Quantities of Gases .
By F. W. Aston , B.A. , B.Sc. , A.I.C. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , F.R.S. Received November 13 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1913 .
) In some work on the homogeneity of atmospheric neon it was desirable to adopt a method of determining gaseous densities which could be easily and quickly performed with a very small volume of gas without risk of loss or contamination , and which in addition would yield results reliable to about OT per cent. The standard method of weighing a known volume of the gas on an ordinary balance yields results of the highest accuracy so long as that volume is large enough .
As OOl mgrm .
may be regarded as the ordinary limit of accuracy of the chemical balance at least 10 mgrm .
of the gas would be required , and even it this quantity ( rather more than 10 c.c. at atmospheric pressure in the case of neon ) had been available , the elaborate precautions necessary to obtain OT per cent , accuracy would put the method out of court on the consideration of time alone .
On the other hand the ingenious method devised by Schloesing* could hardly be expected to give results of this accuracy , and is also open to objection on the score of contamination .
Inasmuch as the accuracy of determination of the density of a very small quantity of gas must ultimately be limited by the sensitivity of the balance employed , it seemed to me that the most hopeful solution of the problem was offered by the quartz micro-balance first described by Steel and Gfrantf and subsequently used with such notable results by Gray and Ramsay J in their determination of the density of radium emanation .
This instrument , which can be made of a sensibility of 10~9 grm. , was made with a small quartz bulb fixed to one end of the beam , the weighings being done by altering the pressure of the air in the balance case .
By knowing the buoyancy of the bulb and observing the pressure necessary to bring the beam to zero , the weight at the other end of the beam could be calculated .
If , however , we alter this procedure and balance the bulb by a fixed counterpoise , the pressure necessary to bring the beam to zero will be a * 'Comptes Rendus , ' 1898 , vol. 126,.p .
220 and 476 .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1909 , A , voi .
82 , p. 580 .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , A , vol. 84 , p. 536 .
440 Mr. F. W. Aston .
Simple Form of Micro-Balance for measure of the density of the gas in the balance case .
This is the principle of the method here described .
It will be seen at the outset that the balance is used as a truly null instrument , all the forces on the beam , with the single exception of surface pressure , being identically the same whenever a reading is taken , so that the most sweeping simplifications may be made in its construction .
The general arrangement of the instrument can be seen in the accompanying diagram , which shows it in plan and elevation .
View and Plan of Balance and Case , about half actual size .
The qioving part of the balance is made entirely of fused quartz ( shown black ) .
It turns upon a single knife-edge cut on a piece of quartz rod about 0'5 mm. thick .
The one on the balance at present in use was ground for me by Messrs. Hilger , but very satisfactory ones can be made by the method given by Steel and Grant ( loc. cit. ) .
To this rod , a few millimetres above the knife-edge , are fused two others of about the same thickness forming the arms of the beam .
To the end of one arm is fused a quartz bulb and to the other a counterpoise made of a piece of rod about 2 mm. thick .
The quartz rods and bulb " were supplied by the Silica Syndicate , Ltd. , the latter had a volume of about 0'3 c.c. , and as the density of air is negligible compared to that of quartz , it was sealed up without exhaustion .
The assembling of the beam was done by means of a small oxy-coal-gas flame , and proved a surprisingly easy operation , the one in use at present being made and roughly adjusted in a quarter of an hour .
It has a total length of about 5 cm .
, and weighs under 0'2 grm. Adjustment of the Balance .
This is done in two stages , the first consists in bending the arms and adding or subtracting small quantities of quartz to or from the counterpoise until the whole swings evenly when supported on the knife-edge in the open air , and has a fairly long period of swing .
This operation is also much easier than would appear at first sight , for fused silica lends itself particularly well to this kind of work .
Determining the Densities of Small Quantities of Gases .
441 The fine adjustment is , however , a much more troublesome operation , as in this the balance can only be tested at about the pressure at which it is required to work .
It is obvious that , given sufficient sensitivity , the smaller the working pressure in the balance case the less the quantity of gas required for a measurement .
On the other hand , as an accuracy of OT per cent , was desired , it was decided to employ a pressure which could be measured to that degree without elaborate apparatus , in practice about 100 mm. of mercury .
For this adjustment a rough balance case was made of a piece of glass tube closed at one end by an accurately fitting rubber stopper , which could be easily removed to admit the balance .
Inside the tube was a piece of plane quartz mounted horizontally on a piece of sealing-wax to support the knife-edge .
The other end of the tube was connected to a mercury manometer and , by means of a three-way tap , either to the atmosphere or to a reservoir kept exhausted by means of a filter-pump .
The procedure was quite simple .
The roughly adjusted beam was taken , and a small excess of quartz added to the counterpoise ; it was then placed in the tube and the latter exhausted , and the pressure at which the balance turned over observed .
If this was too high , the end of the counterpoise was drawn out into a thin tail ; if too low , the end of this tail was allowed to fuse up into a knob .
The latter adjustment was invariably the final one , as by this process , if the time of immersion in the flame is judged with care , the C.G. of the balance can be moved towards the bulb with the greatest possible delicacy .
In general , the sensitivity of a balance can be conveniently judged by observing its period of swing , but , in this one , so large is the surface of the bulb in relation to the whole moving mass that the latter is nearly perfectly dead beat , so that its sensitivity is best measured by observing , by means of a microscope , the movement of the tail corresponding to a definite small change of pressure .
The actual adjustment for sensitivity is carried out by adding or subtracting minute quantities of quartz to or from the top of the rod carrying the knife-edge , which is left projecting for that purpose .
After every trial air must be admitted , and the balance taken out and readjusted , and as the greatest care must be observed not to damage the knife-edge during so many manipulations this " vacuum " adjustment puts a somewhat severe tax on one 's patience .
It can usually be completed in an hour or so , after which the balance is thoroughly annealed and cleaned by the methods recommended by Steel and Grant ( .
cit. ) .
442 Mr. F. W. Aston .
Simple Form of Micro-Balance for The Balance Case .
This is made of pieces of glass cemented together with sealing-wax as indicated in the figure .
In order that the quantity of gas used might be as small as possible , the narrow part of the balance , i.e. all but the bulb , is contained in a cell about 3 mm. wide , made of thick plate glass , and in order to cut down the volume still further a portion of the upper side is cut away , as indicated , to make room for the highest central part of the beam .
The bulb is housed in a glass tube , which in its turn is closed by a glass plug with a flat face pushed in as far as possible without actually touching the bulb itself .
The plane upon which the knife-edge rests is a small piece cut off a parallel quartz plate ( ground by Messrs. Hilger ) and cemented on to a glass support which rests on the bottom of the cell .
Owing to its very small dimensions , a few square millimetres , the adjustment of this plane to an accurately horizontal position appeared , at first sight , to present some difficulty .
This , however , was easily surmounted by the following very simple device:\#151 ; Two small plumb-bobs were suspended by pieces of white thread behind the balance case at such a distance apart that they subtended about a right angle at the quartz plane .
The thread of one of the bobs was then observed together with its mirror image in the quartz plane from a point a few inches above and in front of the latter , and the whole balance case tilted until the two lay exactly in one straight line .
This was repeated with the other bob , and when both satisfied this condition the balance was permanently fixed in position .
It is clear that , subject to the sides of the cell being optically good , the plane must now be truly horizontal .
The balance case is connected by a short piece of capillary tube , as a precaution against an accidental destructive inrush of gas , through one stopcock to the gas-admission apparatus and pump , and through another to the short limb of the manometer .
This is of the simple U-form , the two limbs being made of tube of identical diameter ( about 1 cm .
) .
The longer limb is exhausted as highly as possible and sealed off .
The level of the mercury in the U is accurately controlled by the pinchcock and squeezer device described by Lord Rayleigh.* I he reading of the difference of level is done by means of brass sleeves , as in the ordinary barometer , the one carrying a scale and the other a vernier reading to 0 05 mm. When the balance is not in use the case is kept completely exhausted , the * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 196 , p. 211 .
Determining the Densities of Small Quantities of Gases .
443 uptilted tail lying in the upper of the two small quartz forks fixed inside the case , in the position shown in the diagram .
As a precaution against draughts or other exterior disturbance , the whole balance case is surrounded with a lead box , which also contains a thermometer reading to 0T ' C. The balance case , the manometer , and the tubes through which the gas was admitted had a total volume of only a few cubic centimetres , so that the quantity of gas necessary to make a determination amounted to 0-45 c.c. in the case of oxygen .
Method of Taking Measurements .
About the right volume of gas , generally known from previous experience , is admitted into the balance case and manometer , and the mercury level in the latter slowly raised ( increasing the pressure in the balance case ) until the bulb rises and the knob at the extremity of the counterpoise appears on the field of a fixed reading microscope .
The pressure is then carefully adjusted , by means of the squeezer , until the knob reaches some definite arbitrary zero point , and shows no tendency to move .
The pressure is then read off .
The gas is now pumped out and the operation repeated with a gas of known density , the ratio of the densities being clearly the inverse of the pressures read .
Behaviour of the Balance Practice .
The instrument was primarily designed to compare the densities of specimens of neon .
The bulb has a buoyancy corresponding to 03 c.c. This volume of neon at a pressure of 100 mm. weighs about 004 mgrm .
; hence to give an accuracy of OT per cent , the balance must be sensitive to 0'00004 mgrm .
There is , however , not the least difficulty in obtaining ten times this sensitivity .
The distance from the knife-edge to the knob at the end of the counterpoise is about 3 cms .
The reading microscope has an eyepiece scale of 40 wide divisions to the millimetre .
In the case of oxygen the knob of the balance now in use moves 30 microscope divisions for a change of pressure of 1 mm. in the manometer .
So excellent is the definition that a change of position corresponding to 0'05 division could easily be detected , this implies a sensitivity of 10-6 mgrm .
, about the same as that attained by Steel and Grant .
A\hen the gas is let into the evacuated balance case , the tail generally tends to stick in the fork ; the pressure must then be raised rather above that which should be sufficient and the floor of the room lightly tapped with the foot .
This is the only form of release as yet found necessary .
The damping due to the volume of the bulb has already been mentioned , it 444 Mr. F. W. Aston .
Simple Form Micro-Balance for is quite marked in the open and is increased very greatly by the close-fitting walls of the balance case .
This constitutes one of the greatest virtues of the instrument , as not only does it mean that the tail follows change of pressure with admirable fidelity , making the setting rapid and easy , but since it is literally impossible to make the beam move rapidly enough to do itself an injury it will suffer the most incredible ill usage , and in addition give accurate results under very unfavourable conditions as regards vibration .
Thus the one at present set up on an ordinary laboratory table will give quite satisfactory readings even while two liquid air machines and a large gas engine , etc. , are running in the next room .
The only serious fault of the balance is the tendency of the zero to alter .
When the first one was set up this was so pronounced as to render the instrument quite useless , as it was out of all proportion to the sensitivity .
New beams , planes , and knife-edges were tried and radioactive matter introduced to eliminate electrostatic effects with little or no result , and , in despair , the thing was left to itself ( in an evacuated state ) for several days .
On trying it again the disturbances had almost disappeared , and a week or so later the zero could be trusted to remain constant for a reasonable time .
This effect has not yet been satisfactorily explained , but I am inclined to put it down to actual distortion of the beam due to insufficient annealing , the effects being much more serious than those noticed by Steel and Grant on account of the more rigid construction of their beam .
The Influence of Temperature .
In the measurement of density by the ordinary method , temperature and its exact measurement play an important part .
The density globe must remain for a long time in a bath of known temperature before it is detached from the manometer , and should hang , for hours if the highest accuracy is desired , in the balance case before its weight is determined .
By the present method these delays are entirely eliminated , for so minute is the quantity ( about ( M)005 grin .
) of gas employed that when this is compressed inside the massive walls of the balance case thermal equilibrium is almost instantaneous .
The whole operation of determining the density of a gas to OT per cent , can be completed in 10 minutes ( this time including that necessary for admission and subsequent exhaustion of the gas ) .
Such speed makes the temperature correction for zero quite unnecessary , as it is safer to take a reading with the standard gas either before or after a set of measurements is made , during which the temperature of the balance-case never alters enough to affect the fourth place in the results .
This check also eliminates any error due to the creeping of the zero already alluded to .
Determining the Densities of Small Quantities of Gases .
445 Oxygen derived from potassium permanganate and purified over potash and phosphorus pentoxide was adopted as the most convenient gas for standardising purposes .
Pure dry air also was used , comparisons between the two serving to show how reliably the balance was working .
In some cases , however , such as the comparison of the densities of several samples of the same gas for purity , the standard gas is not required , as for this purpose the readings of pressure are themselves quite sufficient .
The following are a few typical readings for oxygen and air , together with the density of the latter derived from them if 0 = 16 :\#151 ; Oxygen . .
... .
65-20 75-65 76-00 76-35 Air ... .
72-00 ... !
14-49 83-45 83-90 84-35 Density . .
14-50 14-49 14-48 The density from the accepted values , after proper corrections have been made , works out at 14"482 .
As the working pressure is low , correction must be made in order to obtain the weight of a standard litre at N.T.P. ; but , on the other hand , the molecular weight is given directly by comparison with the result for oxygen .
Thus the following figures were obtained at the same time as were those in the last column given above , they are the pressure readings for seven different fractions of very highly purified atmospheric neon :\#151 ; 121-05 , 120-25 , 121-05 , 120-90 , 121-00 , 121-05 , 121-05 .
The mean is 12 P00 .
This , compared with 76 '35 as above , gives a density of 10-096 ( O = 16 ) , and therefore a molecular weight of 20*19 , which agrees to practical identity with the accepted value of 20-200 obtained by Watson.* It is as well to note here that the only theoretical correction necessary to apply to the instrument is the one described by Lord Eayleigh for change of buoyancy of the bulb with change of pressure .
Here the maximum change is some 50 mm. , and , as the bulb is enormously more massive for its dimensions than the ordinary glass density globe , this correction could not possibly affect the fourth place in the result .
The results quoted above show that , used in the work for which it was designed , the apparatus is entirely satisfactory , and it seems likely that , by further refinements in construction , its efficiency could be considerably extended .
Thus there is , theoretically at least , no definite limit imposed upon the quantity of gas necessary to " float " the bulb .
This indeed bears no obvious relation at all to the quantity required to fill it\#151 ; one of the great advantages obtained by weighing by displacement\#151 ; so that by shaping the * 'Chem .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1910 , Trans. , vol. 50 , p. 810 .
446 Micro-Balance for Determining the Densities of Gases .
balance case more closely to the balance , the necessary quantity of gas could be still further diminished .
Again , clearly , if larger quantities of gas are at disposal , the instrument could , with much greater ease in its construction , be arranged to work at atmospheric pressure , the accuracy being thus at once extended to the fifth place .
In addition , it seems likely that it may be turned with profit to another problem , viz. , the measurement of pressure in gases of known density , Readings with the present instrument show that it has an even scale over comparatively large displacements , so that it could easily be adjusted to read pressures of , e.g.,0 to 2 mm. with an accuracy of about O'Ol mm. There is nothing in its construction which precludes its being made entirely of quartz and glass , so that it offers a hopeful solution to the problem of observing the phenomena of electrical discharge at low pressures in gases , such as the halogens , which debar the use of mercury manometers .
As in this case the volume would not have to be curtailed , a larger bulb might be employed , and the reading microscope replaced with advantage by a mirror and scale .
In conclusion , I may state that the instrument herein described may be assembled in a comparatively short time by any skilled glass-worker , and , thanks to the very small quantity of material used , at a cost of a few shillings .
Summary .
1 .
A simple micro-balance is described , by which the densities of gases may be determined relative to some standard gas , using a null method .
2 .
About half a cubic centimetre only of the gas is required .
3 .
The determination can be performed in a few minutes , with an accuracy of OT per cent. 4 .
Possibilities of its use in other fields of research are indicated .

