XX .
" On the Geometrical Isomorphism of Crystals .
" By the Rev. W. MITCHELL .
Communicated by Dr. FRANKLAND .
Received June 12 , 1862 .
In a paper " On the Geometrical Isomorphism of Crystals , " published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1857 , by H. J. Brooke , F.R.S. , it was shown that all the substances crystallizing in the various forms of the pyramidal and rhombohedral systems might be regarded to be as isomorphous as those belonging to the cubical system .
This isomorphism was shown by so taking the* arbitrary primitive pyramid of the one system , or the rhomboid of the other , as to bring these forms nearly isomorphous for every substance in the one system or the other .
In this way tables were formed showing that the same notation for any form would be not strictly isomorphous , but plesiomorphous for any other form of another substance bearing the same notation .
It is the object of the present paper to show that not only the forms of the pyramidal and rhombohedral systems , but also those of the prismatic , are as strictly isomorphous as those of the cubical system .
This is effected by demonstrating all the forms of these three systems to be but partial developments of the cubical system .
Consequently every form can be indicated by the symbols of the cubical system .
In other words , instead of having distinct axes and parameters for each system , and for every substance in that system , all are referred to the rectangular axes and equal parameters of the cubical system .
The pyramidal system is regarded as a tritohedral development of the cubical system , the faces so developed being all symmetrically taken with respect to one of the cubical axes .
Thus , adopting the notation for the cubical system in the last edition of Phillips 's 'Mineralogy , ' the two faces of the cube 001 and 001 will form the basal pinacoids , while the remaining faces 10 0 , 01 0 , 10 0 , and 010 will give the direct square prism .
The faces of the rhombic dodecahedron 1 0 , 11 0 , 11 0 , and 110 will give those of the inverse square prism .
There will be two groups of square pyramids derived from the four-faced cubes , the first in the development of the faces indicated by the symbols kOh k , Okh , Oh , kh kOh , Okh , kOh , Okh ; the second by hOk , Ohk , Ohk , hO Oh k , Oh k , hOk OOhk ; the poles of both of these forms always lying in the zone 00 1 , 1O 0 .
The remaining eight faces of the four-faced cube , when developed symmetrically with respect to the cubic axes , viz. hkO , khO , khO , hk O , hkO , khO , khO , and hkO , give the octagonal prism .
The inverse square pyramids are derived from the tritohedral development of the faces of the twenty-four-faced trapezohedron and three-faced octahedrcn , the one group being derived from the faces k h , kkh , k kh , kkh k ih , kihc , kih , k h , the other from hh k , h hi , hhk , hhik hh k , hhk , hhk , hhk .
The tritohedral development of the form hkI gives the ditetragonal pyramid ; of these there are three groups .
1st .
klh , Ikh , lkh , kl , h , kklh , Ikh c , Ikh , klh , l k , lIk h I , l , klh c , lk I kh , klh .
2nd .
hlk , hk , Ihk , , Ih k l , hk , ih , h lk , hlk hlic , hk lh , Ih , hhk , h lk , I , k. 3rd .
hkl , khl , h l , kkk , ikh , , h k , khi , kcl h k , k hl , khA , hl , hkl , khi , kAl , k l. Ditetragonal pyramids may also be developed from the faces of the forms hAk andc k h , whose poles lie in the zones 0 1 , 10 0 , and 10 1 , 01 0 .
The forms of the hexagonal system are regarded as tetartohedral developments of the cubical system , the groups of faces being always taken symmetrically with respect to the diagonal of the cube or one of the octahedral axes .
The two faces of the octahedron 111 and 1 11 thus form the basal pinacoids .
The six faces of the rhombic dodecahedron 101 , 011 , 110 , 101 , 011 , and 110 give one hexagonal prism , while the other is derived from six faces of the twenty-four-faced trapezohedron , whose symbols are 211 , 112 , 121 , 211 , 112 , 121 .
The dihexagonal prisms are derived from those faces of the form hk I which lie in the zone 101 , 211 .
There are three groups of positive rhomboids , two derived from the three-faced octahedron , and one from the twenty-four-faced trapezohedron .
The following are the symbols of these groups:hhk , khh , hkh hh k , k hh , hAkh hhk , khh , hkh hhk , kIhk , hh kkh , hikk , khk kkh , hkk , khk .
The last group is restricted to those forms of kkh whose poles lie between those of 11 and 112 , &amp;c. The direct rhomboids are all derived from the form hk k , and consist of two groups , hkA k , khk , kkh hkk , k hk , kkh , and hkk , khk , kkh h/ c/ , kh/ c , kCIth .
The form hkI furnishes four groups of hexagonal scalenohedrons .
1st .
hkl , hlk , klh , Ikh , 1hk , khl hk/ l , h , hlIk kl , I kkh , k chl .
2nd .
hkl , hik , k Th , Ikh , Ihk , khlI hXkl , hlk , klh , Ikh , Ihk , khl .
3rd .
1h7 , hkl , , hl , Ikh , klh , hl , hk hl k , h/ l , Ikh , klh , khi , Ihk .
4th .
hl k , hk , 1kh , klh , kh/ , hk IhlkC , hkl , lkh , i , khl , Ihk .
The forms of the prismatic system are then shown to be formed by an analogous development of faces about the rhombic axes ; making two of the faces of the rhombic dodecahedron the basal pinacoids .
In examining the Tables accompanying the paper , in which all the known faces of crystals are expressed in the notation of the cubical system , it will be seen that the indices are necessarily somewhat large .
This inconvenience is more than compensated for by the fact that the angular elements of every face , and its relation to another face , can at once be calculated from the symbols of the faces by very easy formulae .
The magnitude of the indices are also shown to be much diminished by using approximations bringing every pole to its place on the sphere of projection within 5 or 6 minutes-an approximation not greater than that constantly used to make observations tally with the calculated symbols

