]\gt ; the Application of In Methods to the Study of the Origin of Certain Spectrum Lines .
By THOMAS R. MERTON , B.Sc. ( Oxon .
) , Lecturer in Spectroscopy at University of London , King 's College .
( Communicated by A. Fowler , F.R.S. Received May 4 , 1915 .
) Introductory .
In recent years , yreat progress has been made in the study of the nature of spectra and of spectral series , but it may be said that very little is yet known as to the nature of the luminous particles from which different spectrum lines originate .
It is generally supposed that band spectra are in some way due to molecules , whilst series spectra are usually associated with the atom .
Enhanced lines were for many years supposed to be due to proto-elements , or simplified forms of the chemical atom , a view which has recently to some extent fallen into discredit .
The evidence for all these hypotheses is of a circumstantial nature , and very little definite evidence as to the nature of the luminous particles is available .
In their recent important researches , Buisson and have opened up a new method of attacking the problem .
The method adopted by these investigators consists in measuring the limiting order of interference at which fringes can be observed for different radiations .
The limiting order of interference depends on the widths of the spectrum lines , from which certain deductions may be made with regard to the temperature of the sourGe of the radiations , and the masses of the particles which are concerned in their production .
The theory of the method has recently been discussed by Lord and by Schonrock .
The chief circumstance which need be considered as the widths of spectrum lines produced in ases at low pressures is the Doppler effect due to the motion of luminous particles in the line of sight .
Ths researches of MichelsonS have shown that at higher pressures a broadening of the lines occurs , this broadening being attributed to disturbances caused by collisions between the luminous particles , but that at pressures below one thousandth of an atmosphere this cause of broadening may be considered negligible .
'Journ .
de Physique , ' vol. 2 , p. 442 1912 ) .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 170 , p. 274 ( 1915 ) .
'Ann .
der Physik , ' vol. , p. 995 ( 1906 ) .
S 'Phil .
Mag vol. 34 , p. 280 ( 1892 ) ; 'Astrophys .
Journ vol. 3 , p. 251 ( 1896 ) .
VOL. XCI.\mdash ; A. 2 onstant Kgiven bayleigh ( the inert gases , the validity of the formula has been experimentally proved by Buisson and Fabry ( loc. cit and in the case of sodium by Schonrock cit. ) on the assumption that the radiation inates in the sodium atom .
We may now consider more exactly the conclusions which may be drawn from a measurement of the limiting order of interference .
If we suppose that at low pressures ffie only circumstance which can possibly influence the width of the lines is the Doppler effect considered in the theory , it is evident that if the temperature of the source is known , the masses of the luminous particles can be calculated , and conversely , if the masses of the particles be known , the temperature of the source can be determined .
In the simple case of two radiations from the same source , if the mass of the luminous particle from which one radiation originates is known , the mass .
the luminous particle concerned in the production of the second radiation can be calculated independently of the temperature of the source or the exact value of the constant K. Any deductions made on the assumption that the only cause of broadening is due to the Doppler effect must be accepted with caution , since there is some reason to suspect that under certain conditions some other cause of broadening may be operative , although such cause of broadening is not at present theoretically indicated .
Let us therefore assume that some hypothetical cause of broadening exists .
We may write for the breadth of a line , as due to Doppler Let the breadth of the line as determined by some hitherto unsuspected circumstances be , then the ctive breadth of the line which determines the limiting order of interference will be ; whatever circumstances are operative in determining the breadth of a line , the breadth can never be less than , that is to say the value of found can never be greater than the value indicated by the equation .
It may further be pointed out that any imperfection in the experimental ements , any ill adjustment of the ometer plates , or any deficiency in the technique of observing the indistinct fringes can only give too low a value for N. Any observed value of may therefore be confidently accepted as an infsrior limit .
If therefore the mass of the luminous particle is assumed , erior In the experiments recorded in the present investigation the values of have been determined in the following manner .
A convergent beam of from the source was thrown by means of a lens on to the plates of a Fabry and Perot sliding interferometer , and the systems were focussed by means of an achromatic lens on to the slit of a large Hilger constant deviation spectroscope , each spectrum line thus appearing as a narrow strip of a ring system .
In making visual observations , the interferometer tes were slowly separated until a point was reached at which the fringes were only just visible .
From the separation of the plates at this point , the value of could be calculated .
In making observations , the telescope of the spectroscope was replaced by a c , amera attachment and a series of spectra were photographed on the same plate in juxtaposition , with the interferometer plates set at successively increasing differences of path .
The photographic method may be regarded as satisfactory in the determination of the relative values of for radiations photographed on the same plate , but the author has found that , for radiations which can be sufficiently well seen , visual determinations are greatly to be preferred , especially in the determination of the absolute values of the limiting order of interference .
With regard to the constant , it is evident that the value must vary somewhat with the observer , the density of the silvering on the ferometer plates , and other circumstances .
An observer must , therefore , determine his own value for the constant .
I have determined this from a series of observations of the spectra of helium and neon , produced in vacuum tubes with an uncondensed from an induction coil , and the average value of obtained in this way agrees so closely with the value given by Buisson and Fabry ( loc. cit. ) that I have adopted their value , in the discussion of the results .
The arc spectra which have been investigated were produced between carbon poles containing small quantities of the substances under investigation .
The arc was maintained in a glass globe of about a litre capacity , which was exhausted by means of a Fleuss pump , and a mercury gauge to the apparatus showed that a of less than 1 mm. of mercury could be maintained .
The current consumed varied between 1 and 2 amperes .
424 Mr. T. R. Merton .
Study of the Origin of Comparison of the , and Lines of Calcium .
The lelative behaviour of these lines has for many years been a subject of oation , more especially in respect of their appearance in the sun an stars .
The line is a typical flame line , appearing brightly when a calcium salt is volatilised in the Bunsen , and also in arc and spark spectra .
The and lines , on the other hand , are enhanced lines .
Whilst scarcely visible in the Bunsen flame , they are well developed in the arc , and in powerfnl sparks are strongly enhanced relatively to the line .
The and lines recently been shown by Fowler*to be the first pair of a series in which the Rydberg constant " " \ldquo ; is replaced by the value " " this type of series being apparently characteristic of enhanced lines .
The and lines are amongst the most conspicuous of the Fraunhofer lines and line is also .
The former , however , occur at very altitudes in the chromosphere , where the line is not visible , and this is also found to be the case in the spectra of nlany stars .
Lorenser has shown that the line is the first nlember of a single line Principal series with which Diffuse and Sharp series are also associated .
The observations of these lines were necessarily carried out photographically , and although a considerable number of photographs were taken , the absolute values of obtained were not satisfactory , though it is believed that the relative values are worthy of some confidence .
This is due to a number of circumstances .
The unsteady and the sudden evolution of denser calcium vapours in the arc very troublesome in raphic observations , of much less inconvenience in visual work .
The photographic techn ique is difficult , and a series of spectra on the plate are seldom of the same intensity .
The following results were obtained from a nber of plates .
the line , were observed up to a difference path of 80 mm Putting , we get and whence 1662o Abs .
, a value which would appear to be too low for the temperature of the vacuum arc .
The and lines are identical in their behaviour .
The greatest erence of path at which interference has been observed for the line was mm. Putting as before , we get , and Abs .
It be supposed that the line and the and lines are produced in * ' Phil. Trans , vol. 214 , p. 225 ( 1914 ) .
Dissertation , Tubingen , 1913 .
Certain Lines by ference Methods .
different portions of the arc , but the great difference in temperatures involved would appear to discredit this explanation .
Assuming that all three radiations are produced simultaneously , the elative masses of the luminous particles may be calculated .
Thus a number suspiciously near and , within the limits of experimental error , equivalent to 1/ 2 .
This would indicate that the and lines are due to particles having one-half the mass of the particles concerned in the production of the line .
The simplest explanation would appear to be that the line , which is essentially a low energy line , is due to calcium molecules of mass 80 , the and lines being due to calcium atoms of mass 40 , which would give a temperature of about 3000o C. as a superior limit for the temperature of the vacuum arc .
This view receives confirmation from the observations of the flame lines of strontium and barium .
The " " absolute values\ldquo ; of for the calcium lines are undoubtedly much too low , so that the value 3000o C. for the temperature is correspondingly too high .
The Flame Lines of Strontium In the spectra of strontium and bal'ium , the lines and respectively are strictly analogous in their behaviour to the calcium line In the case of the strontium line , Lorenser ( toc .
cit. ) has shown that this line is the first member of a series analogous to the series in calcium of which is the first member .
For ( Sr ) fringes were observed visually up to a rence of path of 183 mm. If a strontium atom were responsible for this radiation , the superior limit for the temperature of the arc would be , clearly an inadmissible value .
It is eyident that molecules must be concerned in the production of this radiation .
For the barium flame line , the limit could not be reached , as the interferometer used was not made to give diflerences of path reater than 240 mm. , and at this difference of path the fringes were still very distinct .
Even this incomplete result is suflicient to show that molecules are concerned in the production of the radiation .
The appearance of band spectra is usually associated with molecules , and the interpretation given to the results would require the recognition of the fact that molecules may give rise to line series as well as loand spectra .
Another point arises .
If two calcium or two strontium atoms can combine at the temperature of the electric arc , and yield spectrum lines peculiar to In the spectrum of the mixture no lines were found which did not occur in the spectra of either calcium or strontium .
The matter , requires an explanation .
Are calcium and strontium , which are chemically very similar , able to combine to form and , but yet unable to form the compound CaSr ?
Or does the calcium atom in CaSr yield the same spectrum as the calcium atom in ?
It was hoped to investigate all the lines in the visible region of the calcium and strontium , but experimental difficulties have at present led to unsatisfactory results .
With respect to the flame lines and the and lines , the arc will sometimes burn steadily for a considerable time , but the other lines in the spectrum flash in and out in a manner which makes measurement very difficult .
In this respect the strontium spectrum was less troublesome than that of calcium .
No exact results can be given for these lines , but it may be stated the limiting differences of path at which were seen were generally less , and never greater , than would be expected on the assumption that the luminous particle was the atom , and no evidence has been found that particles of greater mass than the atom are concerned .
The Two pectra of Argon .
The two spectra of argon appeared to be especially well suited to the study of the relative widths of arc and enhanced lines .
At low pressures the red spectrum produced by means of an uncondensed discharge usually shows lines of the blue spectrum also , but under these conditions they are too faint for investigation with the interferometer , and a small condenser with a -gap in the circuit was necessary to develop the blue spectrum sufficiently brightly .
I indebted to Prof. Herbert Jackson for the loan of two argon tubes of the ordinary Plucker form , but it was found necessary to make use of the greatly increased illumination obtainable with end-on tubes .
The tubes were filled by adnutting air , the diatomic constituents of which were removed , according to the well-known method of Prof. Soddy , by means of metallic calcium .
Small pieces of in a ] boat were heated in a quartz tube connected with the vacuum tubes , and air was admitted in small qusntities until the tubes showed a pure argon spectrum .
just vifference owhich gives Ntting M le value .
It has been pointed out in a previous communication that the lines of the ordinary helium spectrum become wider when a condenser and sparkgap are introduced , keeping the current the primary of the induction coil constant , and it was suggested that this broadeniI ) might be due to the sudden rise of temperature at each impulse .
It is evident , however , that the differences in the widths of the lines in the red and blue spectra of argon are of a different order to any widening that can be accounted for in this manner .
The only other explanation at present provided for by theory is that bhe luminous particles concerned in the production of the blue spectrum are smaller than the particles from which the red spectrum inates .
But this would lead to so low a value for the mass of the particle responsible for the blue spectrum that such an explanation could hardly be gested in the absence of further evidence in this direction .
It may be necessary to admit the existence of some hypothetical cause of broadening in this case , as Buisson and Fabry ( loc. cit. ) have done in the case of the Balmer series of hydrogen .
The Band Associated with Ildium .
The band spectrum associated with helium has been described by Goldstein* and by Curtis , who has investigated the conditions most favourable to its production .
More recently , has made a more exhaustive investigation of this spectrum , and has made accurate measurements of the bands , resulting in the remarkable discovery of relations hitherto only associated with line spectra .
Curtis .
cit. found that the bands were best developed at moderately high pressures , and that with an uncondensed discharge they were faintly visible both in the capillary and in the bulbs , but that they could be obtained much more brightly by introducing a small capacity , with a short spark-gap in the circuit .
Curtis points out that , although the spectrum in question is probably due to helium , this 'Deut .
Phys. Ges vol. 15 , p. ( 1913 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 89 ( 1913 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 91 , p. 208 ( 1915 ) .
Although little is known as to the origin of band spectra , it has usually been assumed that 2 atoms more , at least indirectly , are erned in their production , and the very existence of a band spectrum associated with helium must modify our outlook either on the of band spectra in general or on the usually accepted properties of helium .
For a number of vacuum tubes containing helium in a high state of purity I am indebted to Prof. Herbert Jackson , who has also given me his valuable in some experiments on the efl'ect of low temperatures on the band spectrum .
The tubes were of the ordinary Plucker form , and showed no cvidence of any inlpurit , y excepting a trace of hydrogen , which was just visible at the ends of the capillary , in one tube a trace of mercury , which disappeared after the tube had been run for a few minutes .
In the experiments at low temperatures , the tubes were excited by a moderately weak discharge from the induction coil , the intensity of the arge corresponding to about one-third of an inch spark in air .
No condenser or spark-gap was used , and the spectrum of the pink the electrodes was observed .
The spectra were photographed with the single-prism raph , and visual observations were also made .
In making the raphic observations , the glow from one of the electrodes was focussed on the slit of the spectroscope by means of a lens , and a definite exposure was .
The vacuum tube was then immersed in liquid air contained in an unsilvered vacuum vessel , and a second exposure was made for the same time , the second spectrum being photographed on the same plate in juxtaposition to the first .
When the vacuum tube was wholly immersed in liquid air , the band spectrum appeared as bef.ore in both bulbs , but was much brighter than at room temperature .
Photographs of the spectra of the tube at room temperature and at the temperature of liquid air show clearly the difference in the intensity of the bands .
In the capillary , no change was observed .
The effect of immersing only the lower bulb of the tube in liquid air was very striking .
The intensity of the band spectrum in the cooled bulb was greatly enhanced , the eHect being especially noticeable in the case of the head at .
At the same time , the band spectrum entirely disappeared from the upper bulb , the upper electrode surrounded by a green glow , showing the helium spectrum with the parhelium lines greatly enhanced .
When one bulb only is immersed , a lowering of the pressure would result , together with an increase of density in the cooled bulb .
This would fall into Cf .
Curtis , .
cit. , p. 148 .
mperatures tnhancement ireater density apectrum iperatures , xistence oeing uwhich abservation ( that tpectrum iressure without.change oensity.oped aressures.vident tpectrum Lethods .
band spectrum associated with an inert , might justify the suspicion that in helium , though inert in the ordinary sense of the word , more than one atom may be involved in the processes resulting in the production of a band spectrum .
This suspicion is not confirmed by an investigation with interferometer .
For this purpose , it was found necessary to introduce a small capacity with a very small ) into the circuit , since with the uncondensed discharge the spectrum is too feebly developed , and even with the condensed discharge the spectrum was too weak for visual observations .
Photographs were taken in which the for the lines of the band spectrum produced in this way were compared on the same plate with the lines of the ordinary helium spectrum produced with an uncondensed discharge .
It was necessary in tlJese experiments to employ a narrow slit in order to separate the components of the bands sufficiently for the fringes to be seen without confusion , and the lines of the bands in the neighbourhood of could be successfully examined in this way .
Only a very narrow strip of the ring system could , thel.efore , be examined , with the result that the limiting difference of path at which interference could be seen was considerably reduced , since the are more difficult to uish in these very narrow strips .
The visibility of the fringes in this band spectrum and the ordinary lines appeared to be identical , and there was no evidence that the fringes for the band spectrum persisted at greater differences of path than for the ordinary lines .
It can be seen that if the band spectrum were due to helium molecule the ratio of the limiting differences of path would be about .
It might be imagined that the lines of the band spectrum were broadened by the condensed discharge , in which case it would not be possible to conclude that any evidence a molecular origin had been obtained .
This is most unlikely .
The condensed discharge employed was not powerful enough to broaden appreciably the ordinary helium lines .
If the band spectrum of helium were analogous to the secondary spectrum of hydrogen , discharge , since Buisson and Fabry ( loc. cit. ) have shown that the lines ot the secondary spectrum of hydrogen are not broadened under conditions , whilst the reverse is the case with the Balmer series .
It may , therefore , be considered extremely probable that the band spectrum is due to atomic helium .
The effect of low temperatures on the series and the secondary spectrum has been investigated by Lemo has found that at the temperature of liquid air the secondary spectrum is relatively enhsJlced .
This result may possibly be explained as being due to the condensation of minute traces of water vapour present on the walls of the tube at low temperatures , since it is well known that the presence of water vapour in hydrogen results in an enhancement of the lines of the Balmer series .
A similar explanation may perhaps account for the enhancement of the band spectrum of helium at low temperatures , since this spectrum is adversely affected by the presence of impurities .
The removal by condensation of impurities , which spectroscopically may not be detectable , might result in au enhancement of the band spectru1n .
It is probable that the trace of hydrogen which can be detected in almost every vacuum tube is present as water vapour ; the hydrogen lines could not be detected at the temperature of liquid air in a neon tube in which they were brightly visible at ordinary temperatures .
The Characteristics of Series Lines .
From the characteristics of series of hnes in spectra produced at atmospheric pressure , Bydberg , in his classical researches , was led to adopt the terms Diffuse and Sharp series .
At the present time these terms do not denote the character of the lines in the series , but rather their numerical relations to one another and to the Principal series , and Kayser and Rung refer to these series as the First and Second subordinate series respectively , owing to the fact that the lines of the Diffuse series are not always diffuse in character .
According to he circumstances which are at present recognised as determining the widths of spectrum lines , it might be supposed that the diffuse character .
of many Diffuse series lines at atmospheric pressure is due to the effect of collisions , which must be supposed to affect lines of the Diffuse series to a much greater extent than lines of the Sharp series .
'Astrophys .
Journ vol. 35 , p. 109 ( 1912 ) .
iffuse aharp sthese characteristics oinesdisappear aressures , ppear wcondensed distics oines.very striking instance othepectrum oited Apressure estimated about oCertai Snterjerence Methods .
of interference of the lines in the visible spectrum .
This confirms the observations of Buisson and Fabry .
cit who have concluded that particles of the same mass are concerned in the production of all the series .
When , however , the tube was excited by a powerful condensed discharge , the diffuse character of the Diffuse series at once appeared , more especially in the parhelium series , and could easily be recognised under the small dispersion of a single prism without the use of the interferometer .
The experiment would appear to show that the difference in character between Diffuse and Sharp series is a general one under suitable conditions of electrical excitation , and would indicate that calculations of the actual mass of the luminous particles must be accepted with some reserve , especially in cases in which the law has not been experimentally verified under identical conditions of excitation .
An inferior limit for the mass may be determined with c , onfidence .

