1895 .
] Iron and Steel at Welding Temperatures .
HI \#171 ; Iron and Steel at Welding Temperatures .
" By Thomas Wbightson , Memb. Inst. C.E. Communicated by Professor Roberts-Austen , C.B. , F.R.S. Received February 2 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to demonstrate that the phenomenon of* welding in iron is identical with that of regelation in ice .
The author recapitulates experiments made by him in 1879-80 , described in the proceedings of the Iron and Steel Institute for those years .
These experiments were upon cast iron , and proved the fact that this form of iron possessed the property of expanding while passing from the liquid to the plastic state during a small range of temperature , and then contracted to the solid state , and that the expansion amounted to about 6 per cent , in volume .
The experiments were carried out under two distinct methods , the first being by the suspending of a cast-iron ball on a spiral spring , and lowering the ball under the surface of a vessel filled with molten iron of the same quality ; the change of volume was registered by the contraction of the spring as the varying displacement of the ball varied its buoyancy .
The second method was by casting 15-in .
spheres of cast iron , and measuring the changing diameter as the sphere cooled , then laying down on paper a curve of changing volume , which in general character was found to be similar to the curves produced by the instrument used in the first method .
This property of iron resembles the similar property of water in freezing , which , within a range of about 4 ' 0 .
, expands about 9 per cent , of its liquid volume , and then contracts as the cooling proceeds .
This property of water was investigated by Professor James Thomson and by Lord Kelvin .
The former showed that from theoretical considerations there was reason to expect that in the case 'f a body exhibiting the anomalous property of expanding when cooled and contracting when heated , it should be cooled instead of heated by pressure or impact .
Lord Kelvin investigated the problem experimentally as affecting freezing water , and completely demonstrated the truth of his brother 's reasoning .
The experiments made by the author in 1879 and 1880 suggested the view that this property of ice was connected with the property of gelding in iron , but this was only hypothetical , as the experiments ad been made on cast iron , which , probably on account of the 352 Iron and Steel at Welding Temperatures .
^ presence of carbon , does not possess the property of Zeldin Further , it was not practicable to experiment with wrought iron the same way as with cast iron on account of the difficulty of dealin with that substance in its liquid form .
Professor Roberts-Austen has , however , given metallurgical re .
search a recording pyrometer , and this has enabled the author to resume the investigation at the Mint , where he had the advantage ot Professor Roberts-Austen 's assistance and advice .
The method adopted was the heating of bars in an electric welder , and as soon as the junction of the bars was at a welding temperature , end pressure was applied by mechanical power , and the weld effected .
The temperature at the point of welding was observed by placing a thermo-junction at this point consisting of a platinum wire twisted into a second wire of platinum alloyed with 10 per cent , of rhodium .
The electric current produced at the thermo-junction deflected a galvanometer , which by means of a mirror threw a spot of light upon a sensitised plate which moved by clockwork uniformly in a direction transverse to the spot of light .
This produced a curve , the ordinates of which represented time and temperature .
These curves appear to show that a molecular lowering of tempe-rature took place immediately the pressure was applied to the bar when in the welding condition .
Photographic curves are exhibited which show that this fall in temperature varied in these particular experiments from 57 ' C. to 19 ' C. , according to the circumstances of temperature and pressure .
This appears to prove that wrought iron at a welding temperature possesses the same property of cooling under pressure which was proved by Lord Kelvin to exist in freezing water , and on which demonstration the generally received theory of regelation depends .
The author distinguishes the process of melting together of metals from that of welding .
Either process forms a junction , but the latter takes place at a temperature considerably below the melting point .
The well-known and useful property of welding in iron appears , therefore , to depend , as in the case of regelation in ice , upon this critical condition , which exists over a limited range of temperature between the molten and the plastic state .

