]\gt ; Mr. .
D. Chalmers .
the Theory of Symmetrical Optical Objectives.\mdash ; Part II By S. D. CfIALlIEP , S , , St. John 's College , Cambridge , Sydney .
Conununicsted by Professor Sec. B.S. January 26 , 1905 .
As the defects which depend only on those terms in tho ch istic fimction , that examined in Part I , the resnlts of that paper justify the practice of correcting a single comone\mdash ; for astigmatism and spherical aberration , dne attention be paid to the securing , at least approximately , of the condition for no distortion .
But for the values of apertnre-ratio angular field , that )tain in , the terms of higher orders in important ) errations , and it is interesting to examine how far the in are jnstified in the case of practical systems .
In most the discussion can effected by the use of geometrical , it \mdash ; as is generally the case in practice\mdash ; that bhe stop is ithin the focus of the single lens and that its either component , is the actual position of the stol the consider those which lie wholly in OilC 1 , ( 5 ) is the focal of the back component , 1905 .
] of Symmetried Optical Objectives .
( 2 ) the plane of the stop , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) its images with respect to the front and back components , and the plane symmetrical to ( 5 ) ; and are two on the stop equidistant from the ce1ltre , and parallel rays through these points , and another pair of parallel through these points ; the intersections of these rays with the plancs 1 , 3 , 4 , and 5 , being .
etc. The ray is chosen so that is parallel to , then by symmetry it is evident that is parallel to .
It is also evident that the planes 3 and 4 , being images of in every way similar ; hence they are the plalles of the whole system , and the focal plane.of the mbined systeml is between 4 and 5 .
Let the varlous rays lntersect this plane in , and D. The atnre error of the colllbined system can ) measured ) CA , less the effects due to spherical aberration , here CA idently , since is parallel to CA Thus effects of spherical aberration in both cases , it is that the ature error for co and aperture angle is the mean of the errors for the singlc system for the ngles ( and ( , n'here represents the value of the distortion of the single lens , together the portion of , hich is not common to all When the meridianal astigmatic curve is drawn as \mdash ; the lengths ] ) eing unreduced the abscissae reprcsenting field\mdash ; the ordinates ' the combined system be one-half of those the single system , subject to the corrections from terms ondino to .
To appreciate the -alue of the latter expression draw throngh the rays , symmetrical to and respect to the axis , then , and since the ngles between and , and and are equal , this quantity will , in general , ) small when the stop and its image are close together .
To examine the spherical aberration let ) parallel to the axis .
also parallel to the axis , then and also parallel to the axis ( fig. 2 ) .
.The spherical aberration of the whole system is DB ; cfore DB term is for the defect due to the parallel and not ting on plane , the effects of tion b for .
398 Mr. S. D. Chalmers .
[ Jan. 3 Thus , if the single system be corrected for spherical aberration and curvature , the spherical aberration of the combined system is given by .
It is evident that this quantity will also be very small .
FIG. 2 .
These results can be extended to the case of rays which do not he wholly in one plane .
It will be assumed that the image of the stop formed by one member is perfect , the errors thus introduced being of the same nature as those discussed before .
PQ and RS ( fig. 3 ) be two diameters of the stop , their image FIG. 3 .
points in the plane 4 being ; let parallel rays and pass through and respectively , and let the axial plane parallel to them cut plane 5 in O ; similarly parallel rays and pass through and and are parallel to the axial plane which cuts 5 in OF .
It being assumed that these pairs of rays intersect on the focal plane 5 , the rays and will intersect on O , say at , and similarly { The Theory of Symmetricai Optical ectives .
399 and an OF at F. Through draw EG parallel , cutting OF G. Now the rays and can be ohosen so that is now evident from the figure that is parallel to and that and intersect in on the plane mid-way between 4 and which :is the focal plane of the combined system .
But by symmetry the rays and in the second medium correspond and in the first ; hence the parallel rays and intersect on the focal plane of the combined system , but as RS is inclined at any angle PQ all other rays parallel to and will also intersect at the same point .
Thus we have shown that , subject to the errors introduced by the want of correspondence of the stop and its image , the combined system completely corrected for astigmatism , curvature of field , and spherical Aberration , provided the back component is so corrected .
This want of . .
correspondence introduces some slight errors , but in practical systems these are almost negligible .
These conclusions accord very well with the deductions made by Dr. W. Zschokke , from the results of calculating the paths of rays through the various Goerz double symmetrical lenses .

