1891 .
] Focometry of Lenses and Lens-Combinations .
radiation ; but- the electric energy may equally well be directly converted into the motion of radiation .
As a fact , we have never yet been able to obtain either the emission or the absorption spectrum of hydrogen without the aid of an electric current , so that , in reasoning on this spectrum , we are much more in a region of speculation than when treating of flames .
Whether the hydrogen lines , bright or dark , in the solar spectrum are produced directly by the high temperature of the sun , may even be called in question .
And though we may admit that the density of the hydrogen in the sun 's atmosphere , outside the photosphere , is but slight , it does not follpw that the total pressure of all the gases forming that atmosphere is so very small as Messrs. Frankland and Lockyer ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 17 , p. 288 ) have , from the width of the lines , concluded it .to be .
After all , it is not so easy to connect the temperature , even of a flame , with its radiation , for it is only when the condition of a gas is steady that we can assume that there is a definite relation between the motion of agitation , \#169 ; n which temperature depends , and the vibratory motions , on which radiation depends .
In speculating on such questions , chemical , as well a-s electrical , changes must not be lost sight of , although the latter may be more directly concerned in radiation .
Experiments which we have commenced 'upon the arc in an atmosphere of compressed gas tend to the same conclusion .
It does not appear that the metallic lines in the arc are sensibly affected by a steady pressure up to 15 atmospheres .
The details of these observations , which are complicated by the variation of resistance with change of pressure , we defer until the experiments are finished .
Ill , " On the Focometry of Lenses and Lens-Combinations , 'and on a new Focometer .
" By Silvanus P. Thompson , D.Sc .
, B.A. , Professor of Physics in the City and Guilds Technical .
College , Finsbury .
Communicated by Professor G. Carey Foster , B.A , B.Sc. , F-R.S .
Received February 4 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) Pew of the accepted methods of focometry take into account the distance between the two principal points ( or Gauss points ) of a lens , or afford the means of measuring this distance , as well as the true focal length , and some of them are open to the objection that they necessitate troublesome double adjustments .
Of these methods the | author gives a brief categorical review .
He has devised a method in which there are no double adjustments , i no measurements of the size of optical images , no assumptions as to Focometry of Lenses and Lens-Combinations .
[ Feb. 1$ the approximate positions or distance apart of the two princinfcl points , but in which both the true focal length and the width between the principal points are determined by direct measurements lengths .
The principle of the method is as follows Beyond the principal focal points on each side of the lens , at distances equal to the true focal length , are two points which are conjugate to one another and symmetrically situated at twice the true focal length from the two principal points .
These maybe called the symmetric points .
and the planes drawn through them orthogonally to the principal axis may be called the symmetric planes .
They are planes of unit magnification , and possess the known geometric property that the ordinate in one of these planes of the point of intersection of any incident ray is equal in magnitude , but opposite in sign , to the ordinate in the other plane of the point of intersection of the emergent ray .
Let AB be the lens or combination of lenses , FXF2 the principal foci , HjHcj the principal points , S1S2 the symmetric points .
Then the true focal length is F2H2 = FjHj = FjSj = F2S2 .
... HAB E\ ll Vh2 ) Suppose a parallel beam to be sent from left to right through AB ; an image will be formed at Fj .
Let the light then be sent from right to left forming an image at F2 .
Suitable transparent micrometers are placed to receive these images and to ascertain their precise position in space .
A graduated bench is provided upon which the lens and the micrometers are placed so as to read off the distances between these points .
A gearing is provided , namely , a right- and left-handed screw , by means of which , when , the two micrometers have been placed at Fx and F2 and clamped to the screw , they can be moved by the experimenter at exactly equal rates outwards , so that when one arrives at Sj the other arrives at S2 .
This is known by observing in one micrometer the exact image of the other of equal size .
The distance through which the micrometers have each been displaced is equal to the true focal length ; and the distance etween the two principal points is found by reckoning backwards from Fj and F2 distances equal to the focal length so found .
The positions of the two principal points can then be marked upon the outside of the tube of the objective .
These principles are embodied in an instrument described in the I 1891 .
] The Numerical Registration of .
227 I paper , and called a focometer .
It has been constructed to the author 's designs by Messrs. Nalder Brothers , to whom sundry of the mechanical details are due .
The paper also describes the results obtained with the focometer upon various lenses , some of them being microscope objectives , others camera lenses .
The author finds in several of these lenses that the principal planes are crossed : the distance between the symmetric points being less than four times the focal length .
In some other lenses which are achromatic in respect of bringing all rays to a common principal focus , the positions of the principal planes are different for rays of different colours .
In one lens , a microscope objective by Reichert , the principal planes are not only crossed but are actually at a greater distance apart than the two principal foci .
The paper is accompanied by a sheet of full-size drawings showing the construction of the instrument and its details .
IV .
" The Numerical Registration of Colour .
Preliminary Note .
" By Captain W. de W. Abney , C.B. , R.E. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received February 6 , 1891 .
The Committee of the Royal Society on Colour Vision having put into my hands the determination of the colour of certain signal glasses , a memorandum was drawn up on the method of the numerical registration of colours and submitted to them .
They considered that it should be submitted to the Royal Society , and having slightly modified it , it is presented as a preliminary note of a part of a paper which will be subsequently submitted by General Festing and myself as Part III of " Colour Photometry .
" It must be premised that a colour is determined when its hue , its purity , and its luminosity are known , the last constant being its comparison with the white light before its passage through a transparent coloured body , or with white light reflected from a white surface if it be an opaque coloured body such as a pigment .
There has hitherto been a certain amount of difficulty on the part of normal-eyed persons in stating the exact hue of compound colours in terms of any standard ; in fact , I believe , except by the method given in the Second Part of " Colour Photometry " ( - Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1888 ) , there has been no exact means indicated of reproducing a colour from measurements made .
The method which will be described can take the place of the previous plan for certain purposes , more particularly when it is the impression on the eye which has to be considered .
Any colour can be reproduced from the registration cumbers with the greatest exactness .
To persons who are totally colour-blind to one sensation , viz. , the

