485 " Muhinyo"a Disease of Natives in Uganda .
By Colonel Sir David Bruce , C.B. , F.R.S. , Army Medical Service ; Captains A. E. Hamerton , D.S.O. , and H. R. Bateman , Royal Army Medical Corps ; and Captain F. P. Mackie , Indian Medical Service .
( Sleeping ' Sickness Commission of the Royal Society , 1908-10 .
) ( Received June 7 , \#151 ; Read June 30 , 1910 .
) When the Sleeping Sickness Commission passed through Kampala , the native capital of Uganda , at the end of October , 1908 , on their way to their camp at Mpumu , they were informed by Sir Apolo Kagwa , K.C.M.G- .
, the Prime Minister , that a new disease had broken out in the province of Ankole , and that many people were sick .
This is probably the same disease which was described by Dr. A. G- .
Bag-shawe in 1906 .
He gives the history and symptoms of nine cases which he saw in Ankole .
He concluded that the disease was beri-beri , and states that at one village 25 per cent , of the inhabitants were suffering from a more or less severe form of the disease .
In the same year Dr. L. D. Lowsley also described " Muhinyo , " but was of opinion that it might possibly be dengue with persistent joint pains .
FTothing more seems to have been written about " Muhinyo " until the beginning of 1909 , when Dr. A. C. Rendle reported its presence in large numbers in the country round Lake Albert Edward .
He says that all classes suffer , and that he has no hesitation in saying that " the disease is closely allied to kala-azar , the black death of India .
" Thanks to the kindness of Sir Apolo Kagwa and Chief Saulo Mayanja Lumama , the Commission had an opportunity of seeing a case of " Muhinyo , " which was ' sent to Mpumu from Ankole in January , 1909 .
This patient , who was said to have been ill for three months , was extremely weak and thin , but otherwise he showed no symptoms which pointed to any special disease .
As no other cases could be sent such a long journey as to Mpumu , it was decided that a member of the Commission should proceed to the district , in order to examine sick natives whom A. H. Watson , Esq. , the District Commissioner , had kindly undertaken to have collected there .
On May 23 , 1909 , Dr. A. D. P. Hodges , the Principal Medical Officer , Uganda Protectorate , accompanied by Colonel Sir David Bruce , Director of the Commission , went to Masaka on the borders of Ankole , where they found some 50 sufferers from this disease awaiting them .
.2 p 2 Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
[ June 71 Distribution of " Muhi " in Uganda .
The principal focus of the disease is along the eastern shore of Lake Albert Edward , which corresponds nearly to longitude 30 ' E. , in the latitude of the Equator .
The most severe cases have been met with at Katwe ( Fort George ) , a settlement on the eastern shore of Lake Albert Edward .
It appears to have spread down the eastern shore of this lake , and to have extended in a south-easterly direction into Ankole .
Cases have been recorded as far east as the western shore of Lake Victoria , and as far north as the Katonga Elver , which runs parallel to , and about 10 miles north of , the Equator .
The disease is therefore quite limited in its distribution .
There is no evidence to show how it originated .
Epidemiology .
The tribes most effected by the disease are the Bakonjo and the Basongora .
The former are morally and socially about the lowest class of people to be met with in Uganda .
They are abjectly poor and dirty in their persons and in their habits .
They live in rude grass huts , which they share with their domestic animals .
The Bakonjo keep goats and , if they can afford them , cattle also .
They prefer the milk of the cow , but also drink largely of goats ' milk .
The Basongora are a higher type of native , and resemble in appearance and customs the Bahima , the aristocracy of Uganda .
They are not so poor as the Bakonjo , whom they use as serfs ; they keep cattle and goats , and consume the milk of both animals .
The flesh of the goat is largely eaten by both classes in a partially cooked state .
The milk of sheep is occasionally used in default of that of the other animals .
Clinical Symptoms of " Muhinyo .
" As the result of the examination of the 50 cases sent into Masaka , it appeared that the principal symptoms of " Muhinyo " are fever , profuse sweating , pains in the joints and along the course of nerves , swelling of the various joints , especially the ankles , and extreme weakness and emaciation .
The disease is of long duration ; most of the patients had been ill for several months .
In 13 cases , taken at random , the average duration was three and a-half months .
Another had been ill for two years .
The following temperature chart was the only one which could be obtained .
In most of the cases there was no marked enlargement of the spleen or liver , nor symptoms of paresis or paralysis .
The microscopical examination of the blood showed various degrees of anaemia , but no parasites or marked changes in the white blood corpuscles could be detected .
Further , the 1910 .
] " Muhinyo , " a Disease of Natives in Uganda .
487 examination of the splenic pulp , obtained by puncture of the spleen , failed to reveal the presence of the parasites of kala-azar .
It was therefore evident that " Muhinyo " was neither kala-azar nor beri-beri , but the long duration of the fever , the joint pains , and the extreme weakness and emaciation suggested a continued fever , such as typhoid or Malta fever .
August 1 1 1 1 1 II-1 ?
\ September 1 11 !
I \#151 ; 1 A A i 3 I UAJ J A a A 1 I L_ r \A .
- ^ 3 1 [ \ \ b i \#163 ; 1 it E 7 t ml it E t BJ N \ i tl t j T E E r ^ 1 2 t ?
a it ? ? ?
J Examination of the Blood for Phenomena .
The blood of several of these cases was therefore tested with Bacillus typhosus and Micrococcus melitensis by Widal 's method , with the result that no reaction was obtained with the former , but positive results , in fairly high dilutions , were got with the latter .
The following table represents the result of the examination of the blood of " Muhinyo " with a strain of Micrococcus melitensis from Malta , from which it will be seen that five out of the seven cases examined gave a positive reaction:\#151 ; Table I. No. of experiment .
Dilution of serum .
Control .
1 in 50 .
1 1 in 100 .
1 in 200 .
927 + + 928 + + 929 \#151 ; 930 \#151 ; 931 + + 932 + + + 933 + + \#151 ; Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
[ June 7 , Isolation of the Micrococcus of Malta Fever from the Spleens of Cases of " Muhinyo .
" The next thing to be undertaken was the isolation of the Micrococcus melitensis from the tissues of patients suffering from " Muhinyo .
" The spleens of two cases ( 925 and 926 ) were punctured in the usual way , and the splenic pulp smeared on the surface of tubes of nutrient agar-jelly .
Small white colonies were grown from both cases , and these were subcultured and used to study the morphology , cultural characters , and animal reactions of the organism of which they were composed .
Morphology.\#151 ; Under the microscope the organisms were found to be minute micrococci , indistinguishable in size or appearance from the Micrococcus melitensis .
Cultural Characters.\#151 ; In the same way it was found that the sub-cultures of the organism showed after some days as minute transparent colonies , resembling tiny drops of dew , which afterwards became more opaque , and in no way differed from colonies of Micrococcus melitensis cultivated under the same circumstances .
Animal Reactions.\#151 ; The sub-cultures were also emulsified in saline solution and injected into a monkey and rabbit .
The monkey sickened with fever , and when the agglutinating power of its blood was tested with the strain of Micrococcus melitensis from Malta it was found to give a complete reaction in a dilution of 1 in 200 .
Having thus proved that two animals treated with the " Muhinyo " organism gave a serum capable of agglutinating a known Micrococcus melitensis from Malta , the converse experiment was made .
A rabbit was inoculated with the Malta strain , and its serum tested on the " Muhinyo " organism .
This rabbit 's serum , immunised against Malta fever , agglutinated the " Muhinyo " organism in a dilution of 1 in 200 ; and thus the proof that the micrococcus obtained from the spleen of " Muhinyo " cases and that obtained from cases of Malta fever were identical , was established .
Examination of Goats from the " Muhinyo " , to ascertain if they are reservoirs of the virus of Malta Fever .
By Widal 's Beaction.-\#151 ; In Malta , the Boyal Society Commission discovered , in 1905 , that the drinking of goats ' milk was the sole mode of infection in Malta fever .
Many of the Maltese goats were examined , and 50 per cent , of them found to be affected in some way by the disease , while [ lOJper cent , were actually excreting the Micrococcus melitensis in their milk .
1910 .
] " Muhinyo f a Disease of Natives in Uganda .
489 It was , therefore , a matter of importance , as well as curiosity , to ascertain if the Ankole goats also suffered from Malta fever , and if the causation of this disease was the same in Central Africa as it had been proved to be on the shores of the Mediterranean , in the Soudan , and in South Africa .
When Sir Apolo Kagwa was approached as to the feasibility of obtaining goats from the most affected districts , he informed the Commission that he would see what could be done .
About six weeks later a flock of goats , numbering in all 24 , was driven up to the laboratory at Mpumu , and it was stated that these had come from a place where " Muhinyo " was common .
They were at once examined , with the result that the blood of three out of their number reacted to the strain of Micrococcus melitensis obtained from cases of " Muhinyo , " and also to the Malta strain .
The following tables give the details :\#151 ; Table II.\#151 ; Micrococcus melitensis ( " Muhinyo " strain ) .
No. of experiment .
Dilutions of serum .
Control .
1 in 10 .
1 in 20 .
1 in 50 .
1 in 100 .
1 in 200 .
1512 + + + 1507 + + + + \#151 ; 1776 + + + + \#151 ; Table III.\#151 ; Micrococcus melitensis ( Malta strain ) .
Dilutions of serum .
No. of Control .
experiment .
1 in 10 .
1 in 20 .
1 in 50 .
1 in 100 .
1512 7 + + _ 1507 + + + + \#151 ; Isolation of the Micrococcus of Malta Fever from the Tissues of the Goats.\#151 ; After having found that some of the Ankole goats reacted to the agglutination test , an attempt was made to isolate the Micrococcus melitensis from their tissues .
This proved successful in two cases .
The following experiment gives one of these in detail:\#151 ; Experiment 1475 .
Goat .
August 11 , 1909.\#151 ; This goat , which was one of a herd from Ankole , died this morning .
The spleen was removed , and small portions of the pulp spread over the surface of agar tubes .
Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
[ June 15 , August 16 .
A growth consisting of several very small , round , white colonies appeared after three days .
A stained preparation from one of these showed that they were composed of organisms resembling Micrococcus melitensis .
Sub-cultures made .
September 29.\#151 ; The growth from two agar tubes was made into an emulsion with salt solution , and an agglutination test made with serum from a rabbit immunised against Micrococcus melitensis , Malta strain .
The result was that the organism from the goats agglutinated completely in a dilution of 1 in 100 , and the proof was complete that the Ankole goats are liable to contract Malta fever , and to act as a reservoir of the virus .
Conclusions .
1 .
" Muhinyo " is Malta fever .
2 .
" Muhinyo " is conveyed from the goat to man by the drinking of goats ' milk .
The Natural Food of Glossina palpalis .
By Colonel Sir David Bruce , C.B. , F.R.S. , Army Medical Service ; Captains A. E. Hamerton , D.S.O. , and H. R. Bateman , Royal Army Medical Corps ; and Captain F. P. Mackie , Indian Medical Service .
( Sleeping Sickness Commission of the Royal Society , Uganda , 1908-10 .
) ( Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 30 , 1910 .
) As a good deal of interest , and it may be importance , attaches to the food of the tsetse fly\#151 ; the carrier of Sleeping Sickness\#151 ; the following notes are placed on record :\#151 ; In the laboratory it was found that the flies fed with far more avidity on birds than on monkeys , while they could hardly be tempted to feed on young crocodiles , iguanas , or lizards .
It was very marked , this preference of theirs for birds ; the moment a chicken was placed against the netting of the cage , they instantly swarmed on it in hundreds .
From this it was thought probable that the natural food of the flies would prove to be birds blood , but the two following experiments do not bear this out to any great extent:\#151 ; The first experiment was carried out in the laboratory at Mpumu , and extended over several months .
Flies which had been caught on the Lake-shore and which had been kept over from the previous day , and sometimes longer , were dissected , and each portion of the alimentary canal examined in the fresh state under a low power .
The various organs of the fly were then

