On a Method of analysing Stones containing fixed Alkali , by Means of the Boracic Acid .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. F.R.S. Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution .
Read May 16 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 231 .
] The method of analysis here described by Mr. Davy is founded on the attraction of the boracic acid for the simple earths , which is considerable at the heat of ignition , and on the ease with which the compounds formed with them are decomposed by the mineral acids .
The process is as follows : 100 grains of the stone to be examined must be fused for about half an hour , in a strong red heat , with 200 grains of boracic acid : an ounce and a half of nitric acid , diluted with seven or eight times as much water , must be digested upon the mass till the whole is decomposed ; and the fluid must then be reduced , by evaporation , to an ounce and a half or two ounces .
If the stone contain silex , it will now be separated : this must be collected upon a filter , and washed with distilled water till freed from the boracic acid and all other saline matter .
The water that has passed must be mixed with the other fluid , and the mixture evaporated till it is reduced to a convenient quantity , for instance , half a pint .
It must then be saturated with carbonate of ammonia , and boiled with an excess of this salt till all precipitable matter has fallen to the bottom of the vessel .
The earths and metallic oxides must be separated by the filter , and to the filtered liquor must be added nitric acid , till it tastes very sour : it must then be evaporated till the boracic acid appears free .
The fluid must be again passed through the filter , and evaporated to dryness ; when , by exposure to a degree of heat equal to 450 ?
of Fahrenheit , the nitrate of ammonia will be decomposed , and the nitrate of fixed alkali will remain in the vessel .
The remaining earths and oxides Mr. Davy has separated by the usual processes .
The aluminla he has separated by solution of potash ; the lime by sulphuric acid ; the oxide of iron by succinate of ammonia ; the manganese by hydrosulphuret of potash ; and the magnesia by pure soda .

