Observations of Nebulce and Clusters of Stars , made at Slough , with a Twenty-feet Reflector , between the years 1825 and 1833 .
By Sir JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL , Knt. Guelp .
F.R.S. %c .
Received July 1 , -Read November 21 , 1833 .
THE following sheets contain the results of observations begun about the year 1825 , and prosecuted with more or less assiduity from that time up to the commencement of the present year , in pursuance of a design to review the nebulae and clusters of stars discovered by my father ; and perhaps , in so doing , to add to their number , and to extend in some degree our knowledge of the nature and physical construction of that mysterious and interesting class of bodies .
It was my original intention to have deferred the publication of these observations until I should have been able to have presented their results to the Royal Society in the more complete form of a general catalogue of nebulae and clusters visible in this latitude ; in which all my father 's nebulae should have been included , and their places determined by at least two observations .
To have done this , however , would have required several years ' additional work and the want of an extensive list of nebulve arranged in order of right ascension , having , since the recent improvements in the achromatic telescope , and the increased assiduity of astronomers in the detection and observation of comets , become continually more pressing , and the deficiency more and more complained of , I have thought it on the whole a preferable course to supply that deficiency so far as I am able , not by the production of a catalogue pretending to a precision and a completeness I am unable yet to give it , but by simply stating the individual results of such observations as I have hitherto made ; with no other preparation than that of reducing them all to a common epoch , arranging them in order of right ascension , and bringing together , in every case where the same object has been more than once observed , all the observations of it which occur .
By so doing , two distinct ends are accom3A2 plished .
In the first place , the series of observations thus arranged can be used , as a catalogue , for reference , and may serve the purposes of one , until a more perfect one can be produced-(valeat quantum ) .
In the next place , the results so stated , carry with them their own weight and evidence .
Where several observations of one and the same object occur , their agreement or disagreement will enable every one to assign to them their proper degree of credit , to appretiate the amount of error , both accidental and inherent , to which the system of observation adopted is liable ; and being thus impressed with a due notion of the degree of latitude with which each result is to be interpreted , he will readily perceive what reliance can be placed on single observations , unchecked by the context .
My mode of observing , the general character of the instrument employed , and the principal sources of error to which its determination of the places of objects is liable , are stated in considerable detail in my five catalogues of doxuble stars discovered with it , published in the Memoirs of the Astronomical Society .
To these , therefore , I will refer for the particulars in question : but it will be right here to mention , that a much greater latitude of error must unavoidably subsist in observations of nebulae than in those of stars .
Many of these objects present a large and ill-defined surface , in which it is not always easy to say where the centre of greatest brightness is situated .
Vast numbers of them are so extremely faint as to be with difficulty discerned at all , or not until they have been some time in the field of view , or are even just about to quit it .
In such cases the observations become hurried and uncertain ; and this peculiar and fertile source of error and mistake is greatly increased by their excessively irregular distribution over the heavens , -crowded together in some places so as to allow hardly any interval between their transits , -while in others whole hours elapse without a single nebula occurring in the zone of the heavens under examination .
In these crowded parts of the heavens , it is not only the number , but the variety and interest of the objects which distract attention and render it scarcely possible to proceed with that methodical calmness and regularity which is necessary to ensure numerical correctness , especially when the observer has continually present to his mind the rarity of his opportunities .
It is only in the months of March , April , and May that the richer parts of the heavens can be advantageously observed , and 360 then only in the complete absence of the moon , and of twilight .
When to these conditions we add those which arise from the variable and uncertain nature of our climate , it will be seen that a number of circumstances by no means frequently concurring , is necessary to produce a night in which it is possible to make any great progress in a review of nebulde ; and that in fact there is hardly any branch of astronomy which has a greater tendency to create a sense of hurry , of all things the most fatal to exact observation .
The observations which are here registered comprise , more or less , about 2500 nebulae and clusters of stars , which is the number of those observed by my father ; but of the two collections , only about 2000 are common to both , the remaining 500 of mine being new .
It may serve to show the close and rigorous nature of my father 's scrutiny , when I state , that among these 500 I can call to mind only one very conspicuous and large nebula , and only a very few entitled to rank in his first class , or among the " bright nebulae .
" By far the greater proportion of them are objects of the last degree of faintness , only to be seen with much attention and in good states of the atmosphere and instrument .
This is so far satisfactory , that it shows pretty evidently our knowledge of the nebulous contents of the northern hemisphere to be at length nearly complete , and that to make a further step , the powers of an instrument like the 40-feet reflector will be required .
It has generally been my practice to make some kind of sketch or drawing , sometimes more , sometimes less elaborate , of any nebula at all remarkable which presented itself .
In many instances careful drawings have been made and repeatedly compared , at distant intervals , with the objects they have been intended to represent .
The difficulty of making satisfactory representations of such objects is , however , extreme ; and of those which accompany this paper , as specimens of the various classes of objects which the heavens present , I am rather disposed to apologize for the incorrectness than to vaunt the accuracy .
General resemblance , however , I can vouch for and where fidelity in details has been attempted , I should hope that glaring departures from nature will hardly be found to subsist .
Among the figures will be found representations of some very extraordinary objects , which have not hitherto been sufficiently pointed out to the notice of astronomers , and of which indeed some of the 361 most remarkable peculiarities have escaped every former observer .
These are briefly noticed in the descriptions appended to each observation , and more distinctly and at large in the explanations of the plates .
Meanwhile it is only necessary for any reader to cast his eye over the figures , to be satisfied that many of these mysterious objects possess a symmetry of parts , and a unity of design , which , singular as their constitution must appear , strongly mark them as systems of a definite nature , each complete in itself , and subservient to some distinct purpose of which it is in vain for us to conjecture the nature .
The manner in which the observations are presented in the following pages requires little explanation .
The first column contains a general number for convenience of future reference ; the second , the number or name under which each nebula is to be found , either in my father 's catalogues ( in which case his class and number is set down , ) or in the brief but important list furnished by MESSIER in the M6moires de rAcademie des Sciences for 1771 , and the Connoissances des Temps for 1783 and 1784 , which are indicated by the letter M. When no previous mention of a nebula or cluster could be found in the writings of former observers , it is designated as Nova .
A very few are due to STRUVE .
These are noted by 2 .
The third column contains the right ascension , and the fourth the north polar distance , for 1830'0 .
The manner in which these elements are obtained from the rough observations , or the process of reduction employed throughout the work , will be fully stated in an Appendix annexed to the observations , as well as other matters of detail which may be advantageously deferred .
Under the head of each nebula , as above mentioned , all its observations are brought together , and for distinctness ' sake , the hour and minute in JR , and the degree in N.P.D. are only once set down for each , viz. in the upper line , or that which contains the earliest 2t of each .
When the subsequent observations in R fall into the next minute , the seconds are counted on beyond 60 ; and when those in polar distance pass into the next degree , the same contrivance , i. e. counting the minutes beyond 60 , is resorted to , to avoid doubling the initial entries and so misleading the eye .
When no ARE or no P.D. has been observed , the fact is indicated by dotted lines .
When only a rough approximation has been obtained ( a case unfortunately too common ) , or when , none having been procured , the 362 necessary datum has been taken from the working list book , this is indicated by the sign 4 .
What is here meant by the working list will be explained in the Appendix .
The column headed " Description and Remarks " contains the abbreviated description taken down , at the time of observation , from the sweeping book .
The following is the system of abbreviation used .
B denotes b br c comp cl comp .
D or d-E -F f fig -g i or irr -L -____ Bright .
brighter .
broad .
considerably .
cluster .
compressed .
double star .
extended , elliptic , or elongated .
extremely , excessively .
Faint .
following .
figure .
gradually .
irregular .
large .
1MmN neb n pos RrS st sc v denotes ---.---- ... long or little .
in the middle .
much .
nebula .
nebulous or nebulosity .
north .
pretty , preceding .
angle of position .
round .
resolvable .
small .
south , suddenly .
star , stars .
scattered .
very .
* Star .
X Moon above the horizon .
( ( [ Moon very troublesome . ?
Globular cluster .
In all the descriptions the following order is , or ought to be , adhered to .
First the degree of brightness is mentioned , characterized by e B , v B , p B , B , p F , F , v F , e F. Next , the size , generally indicated by L and S with their adverbial adjuncts e , v , p. Thirdly , the general form , as R , E , mE , &amp;c. Fourthly , the degree and rate of condensation , as b M , sb M , vg1b M , &amp;c. If the nebula be resolvable , it is next expressed by r. After these come more distinct numerical particulars , as the estimated diameter , indicated by the number of seconds it was judged to subtend ; the measured , or estimated length , breadth , or position with the meridian , &amp;c. ; and any other remarks which may have appeared desirable to note at the time .
Clusters are characterized as Rich , or poor , or compressed , loose , or scattered , &amp;c. For example:363 " vB ; vL ; 1E ; vgpmb M ; 50"1l ; 45"br ; pos29 ?
-3bymicrom .
a* 9m 45 ?
np dist 80 " .
" Which expanded runs thus : " Very bright ; very large ; little extended ; very gradually pretty much brighter in the middle ; 50 " long ; 45 " broad ; angle of position ( reckoned always from the north , and from a meridian , in the direction north , following , south , preceding , ) measured 29 ?
'3 by the micrometer .
A star of the ninth magnitude is situated 450 north preceding the centre of the nebula , and at a distance from it of 80 " , ( both by estimation ) .
" Measured angles are always marked as above , in degrees and decimals .
Finally , the last column contains the sweep in which the observation occurs , numbered regularly on in order of time up to sweep 427 , with only one interruption of the order , viz. that the sweeps marked 43 , ... .
49 precede sweep I in order , having been written down on separate sheets in the year 1823 , before the commnencement of my more regular plan of observation , and mislaid .
364 manner in which the observations , whose results are above stated , have been performed , that is to say , the method and older in which the business of a sweep is conducted , having been stated at large in my catalogues of double stars , it will not be necessary to recapitulate the particulars here ; but it would not be right for me to lay before the Royal Society the present collection of reduced observations unaccompanied by some explanation of the manner in which the reductions have been executed , and how the numbers here set down as the mean right ascensions and north polar distances of objects for the epoch 1830 , are concluded from the numbers registered at the moment of observation , especially since the method actually pursued for this purpose is materially different from that taken to reduce my earlier catalogues of double stars , being at once much more exact , and far less troublesome .
This change has of course involved the necessity of a recalculation of all the sweeps which had been reduced on the original plan ; and although this has proved a work of considerable labour , the advantage of the adoption of a uniform system throughout the reductions is more than an equivalent for the time and trouble it has cost-not to mention the detection of several errors in particular cases , and the satisfaction of a general verification of the great body of the former computations .
Every complete observation registered in the sweeping books contains the following particulars : 1st .
The time , shown by a chronometer ( of unknown error and rate ) , when the object passed one or other of the vertical wires of the eye-piece , or finally left the field , after which , though it might be recovered , and viewed and described at leisure , by withdrawing the tube from its bearing against the ladder , yet no further determination of time was practicable , other than a very rude one , by taking the transit of some small star , on the same parallel , and then temporarily fixing the tube in a new position , remote from the ladder , and noting the difference of right ascension between that star and the object , by their transits afresh across the wires so displaced .
2ndly .
The wire across which the transit was observed is noted in the next place , and the first step in the process of reduction consists in applying to the 482 observed times of transit a reduction to the first wire , when not directly observed , founded on a knowledge of the interval between the wires and the extent of the range of the field of view , as also of the approximate polar distance of the object .
3rdly .
The third datum given by observation is the reading off of the brass sector attached to the end of the tube , by the lateral microscope .
The sector is graduated to degrees and minutes , and the seconds are estimated , which is easy , as each minute is nearly a tenth of an inch in length .
Though I have no reason to apprehend any error in the graduations , or in the values of the degrees , minutes , &amp;c. , into which the arc of this sector is supposed to be divided , both are regarded as unknown elements , whose values , if necessary , might be investigated , but into which , by reason of the system adopted , there is no occasion to inquire , further than to be satisfied that their errors are of an order so small as not to bring into question the identity of an object .
These are the data furnished by observation for every object in a complete sweep ; and I shall now explain how from these data , compared with the mean places of all those known objects which are to be found in authentic catalogues brought up to a given epoch , and which occur in a sweep , the mean places of all the unknown ones for the same epoch maybe obtained , with the greatest degree of accuracy of which the system of observing is susceptible , -without the necessity of taking into direct consideration any uranographical or instrumental correction whatever , and that in a manner which , as will appear , carries with it a moral certainty of eliminating ( so far as they can be eliminated by any process ) whatever errors may have been committed in the observations of the zero stars .
In fact , if we consider all the corrections which we can possibly have occasion to apply to observations of this kind , whether arising from the uranographical reductions , ( viz. precession , aberration , nutation and refraction , ) or from instrumental mis-adjustment , such as extrameridional situation of the plane of the sweep , or its deviation from a vertical ; error and rate of the chronometer ; error of evaluation of the divisions of the sector , &amp;c. ; or , lastly , even from instability of the instrument itself , due to hygrometrical or pyrometrical causes , whose operation , though very irregular , is still to a certain extent gradual ; we shall find that they are all functions of two quantities , the time elapsed since a given epoch , or , which comes to the same thing , the 483 sidereal time at the moment of observation ; and the inclination to the horizon of the line of collimation , or , which comes to the same , the polar distance of the object .
Hence it follows that in all cases the mean R. A. of an object observed must necessarily be derived from the observed chronometer reading , ( reduced to the first wire , ) by adding to that reading a reduction ( R ) which is some certain function of these two quantities , and that the mean polar distances , also reduced to the same fixed epoch , will in like manner be had from the reading of the index arc or lateral sector , by adding thereto another reduction ( r ) , which is also a function of the same quantities .
We have therefore , if we call a and X the mean R. A. and polar distance of any object , t the time ( by chronometer ) of its transit over the first wire , and i the reading of index arc , two equations of this form : =t+ funct .
( o , a ) =i+ funct .
( a , z ) .
This form , however , is unsuitable to our purpose , the quantities n and , being themselves the object of inquiry ; but it is easy to give the equations a more available form , if we consider , 1st , that and are never materially different , the former from t , the latter from p+ i , where p is the polar distance corresponding to i= o ; and 2ndly , that we intend to have no concern at all with the analytical form of the functions involved , which , so far as our purpose goes , may be regarded as unknown or arbitrary .
Denoting then by F and f ; other forms of functions equally unknown with the former , we are at liberty to suppose our equations transformed as follows : =t +F ( t , i ) =i-+f(t , i ) Our attention must now be directed not to discover 6a priori , by theory , the analytical forms of the functions F , f ; but , a posteriori , from observation , to tabulate their values , or , in other words , to reduce their calculation to a simple process of interpolation between their observed values as concluded from the zero stars .
To this end we must put the above equations under the form F ( t , i ) = wf(t .
i)= i 484 and putting F ( t , i ) =R and f ( t , i ) = r , we must first ascertain the values of R , r from each of the zero stars observed , with the corresponding values of t and i given by observation , and then tabulate them by interpolation , for all the other values within the limits of the sweep .
With respect to the first of these operations it is very easy .
For in the case of a zero star , a and a are given by the standard catalogue , brought up to the given epoch if required , and t and i are the actual readings off of the chronometer and index arc , the former being merely reduced to the first wire , by an appropriate table , when that wire is not observed .
The problem then is reduced to this , -given the values R , Rt , R ' , and r , r ' , r " , &amp;c. , of two functions of t and i , of whose analytical form we are ignorant , to interpolate these functions , and tabulate their values for every value of t and i within certain limits .
The principle on which this problem may be easiest and most generally resolved , as well as with the highest degree of probability which the case admits , is an extension of the method I have used for interpolating the angles of position of double stars .
We may regard R and r as the third or vertical coordinates of two curved surfaces , of which t and i are respectively the first and second or horizontal coordinates .
Having , therefore , obtained a number of corresponding values of the three coordinates , we have given so many points in each curve surface , or rather which should lie in such surface were all the observations free from error .
Since that , however , is not the case , the surface , such as it theoretically ought to be , did we know its true form , will not pass through but among the points in question ; and it must be our care so to describe it as to deviate as little as possible from them while yet preserving a seemly and moderate flexure in itself-at least if we have no reason to believe that jumps exist in the instrumental errors .
A graphical process which should require us to describe a curve surface through or among given points in space , would be difficult , but fortunately in the case before us the difficulty may be evaded .
For the limits of a sweep in polar distance being only three degrees , the amount of flexure of either of our curve surfaces in the direction of the coordinate i will of necessity be trifling , and may be disregarded .
The surface therefore will be one of a cylindroidal nature , in which the ordinate is of the form funct .
( t ) + funct .
( i ) , so that if we denote by A , B , and a , b , such functions of these respective variables , we shall have R=A+B r=a+b where A , a , are functions of t alone , and B , b , of i alone .
Thus the interpolation of the functions R , r , is reduced to that of the functions A , B , a , b , each of which involving only one independent variable , the precepts given in my paper above alluded to , apply immediately to its interpolation , and enable us to tabulate its value with the greatest readiness .
The process which I have used throughout the reduction of the sweeps has been grounded on these principles , and may be thus sunmarily described .
1st .
From the registered chronometer and index reading , compared with the standard catalogue adopted , deduce the reductions , in R. A. and N. P. D. of all the known stars which occur in the sweep , or the zero stars , as I have called them .
By the reductions , I mean the quantities in time or in space which must be applied to the observed chronometer or index reading to produce the catalogued R. A. or N. P. D. for the epochs .
These are the quantities R , R ' and r , r ' , &amp;c. 2ndly .
Take a piece of paper , divided into squares , either ruled or printed , of which every tenth line in both directions should be stronger than the rest .
On this , choosing one direction ( suppose the horizontal ) for measuring off the values of the independent variable t , let the other ( the vertical ) be devoted to measuring off those of the function A corresponding to those values of t : and in this way lay down a series of points on the paper , having R , R ' , &amp;c. , for their ordinates and the values of t corresponding , for their abscissas .
Through , or among these points , so as to make the least deviations consistent with a gentle and moderate curvature , or , if possible , with a rectilinear form , describe a curve , which may be called the reducing curve in right ascension , for time , and then read off the values of its ordinate R , which correspond , not to the observed values of t , but to a regular arithmetical or tabular progression of this quantity ; for instance , to every tenth , or twentieth , or thirtieth minute , according to the rapidity of its variation .
Lastly , enter these readings off of the interpolating curve in a table , which will therefore express the values of the 486 unknown function A , and may accordingly be used as a table of reductions in R. A. for that part of the reduction which depends on the time .
3rdly .
Suppose A , A ' , A " , &amp;c. , to be the values of A taken from this table corresponding to the values t , t ' , t " , &amp;c. , of the time , at the moments of observation of the zero stars ; then , since R=A+ B , we have B=R A , and similarly B'R'A ' , and so on .
Thus , then , we get a set of values of B , B ' , B " , &amp;c. ; and these being in like manner laid down on a paper of engraved squares , and an interpolating curve drawn , read off , and tabulated as in the case of A , we get a table of values of B to be used for that part of the reduction in R. A. which depends on the index arc .
These tables once constructed , we may apply them immediately to the reduction of all the observations of unknown objects in R. A. which were made on the first wire .
But for those made on the second , or at leaving the field , a further correction will be required , viz. the interval between the wires , to be applied negatively to the observed chronometer reading .
This correction is of the form c. cosec a , or c. cosec ( p + i ) , where p is the polar distance of the top or zero of the sweep .
By numerous observations made for the purpose , I have determined the value of c in my eye-piece as follows : for the second wire , c= 31s'09 ; for the final exit from the field , c= 58'69 .
In order , however , to avoid the trouble of making this subtraction , as a separate operation , for all the unknown objects which happen to have been observed under these circumstances , it is preferable to construct three independent tables of B ( with which this correction , depending on i , unites itself , ) to be used for observations made on the first or second wire , or at the exit from the field , which we shall denote by B ' , B2 , B3 .
To reduce the index readings to polar distances , for the adopted epoch , a process exactly similar must be used for determining a and b. A table of a being first constructed , the equation b= r-a gives us the means of interpolating and tabulating the values of b. In this case , however , there is no occasion to form tables for the other wires , the bisection of the object by the horizontal wire being alike in all parts of its passage through the field , except within a degree or two of the pole .
To reduce a sweep , then , in the most general case , we require six tables , viz. 32 487 two for the valuies of A , a , whose argument is the registered time , per chronometer , and four for B ' , B2 , B3 , and b , having the index reading for their argument .
The construction of these tables in the manner described , and their application when constructed , is attended with very little difficulty , when once the computer is accustomed to the construction and reading off of the interpolating curves .
In most cases , however , the value of A is so nearly constant , that its variation ( in such observations as these ) may be neglected : whenever this is the case , the table for interpolating A may be suppressed , and its constant value simply added to those of B ' , B2 , B3 , which are always required .
It is therefore advisable universally to regard B ' , B2 , B3 , as containing the constant part of A , by which procedure all occasion of mistake arising from change of method is taken away .
Most usually also the value of B1 , so increased by the constant part of A , is the same throughout the limits of the sweep .
When this is not the case , it is ordinarily owing either to extrameridional situation of the telescope , or to rapid hygrometrical changes , or lastly , to wind .
But with its causes we have no concern , further than to endeavour to reduce its amount when inconveniently great , by a motion of the instrument in azimuth .
The values of a are liable , as I have found by experience , to considerable fluctuations , and that in very variable degrees at different epochs of the observations .
Hygrometrical changes have some influence : but by far the worst , and most intractable part of these fluctuations appears to have taken its rise from the shifting of the line of collimation , owing to the mirror taking a new bearing in its cell .
I regret that I did not earlier perceive this cause of error .
It has only recently occurred to me , and the remedy almost at the same instant suggested itself in a simple , and what I trust will hereafter prove an effectual application of the collimating principle of RITTENHOUSE and KATER .
It consists in attaching to the inside of the wooden tube of the reflector a small achromatic telescope , having its object-glass turned towards the speculunm , and its eyeend projecting at right angles to the axis of the tube through an aperture in the side , the cone of rays being deflected outwards at a right angle by a small mirror 45 ?
inclined to its axis .
In the focus of the object-glass , ( thus rectangularly deflected , ) is fixed a cross of fine spider-lines , strongly illuminated by a lamp ( capable of being shut off when not wanted ) , which also serves to illuminate the field .
The cross is so situated that its image , seen in the telescope as an object infinitely distant , ( according to the principle of the collimator , ) makes with all its arms , angles of 45 ?
with the horizontal and vertical wires of the sweeping eye-piece .
In the beginning of a sweep , the intersections of both crosses are brought to exact coincidence ( by a method presently to be explained ) ; and it is evident that if in the progress of the sweep the slightest shifting of the mirror in its cell should produce a motion of the line of collimation , it cannot fail to be detected by the apparent recess of the two crosses from their original common intersection .
A relative motion , to the amount of two seconds of space , either laterally or vertically , cannot possibly escape detection , as I have convinced myself by many trials ; and so satisfactory has this mode of overcoming the difficulty in question proved , that I have no hesitation in saying that the only obstacle to the use of large reflectors for the nicer purposes of exact theoretical astronomy , ( viz. the error caused by the shifting of the mirrors in their cells , by reason of their great weight , and the danger of securing them by strong pressure , ) has ceased to existS .
It is not , however , sufficient to have the means of readily detecting error , without possessing that of correcting it with equal readiness , or at least measuring its amount .
A velry simple and effectual contrivance accomplishes this .
The two adjusting screws by which the mirror case is supported against the bottom of the tube are terminated , outside of the latter , by large disks or wheels of wood about six inches in diameter , grooved at their edges .
Round these , re-entering cords are conducted over pulleys , to a convenient point within reach at the mouth of the tube , forming a kind of reins , which hang loose when not in use , but by tightening or drawing one or other of them , any motion , however large or * Mv first collimator consisted of a small object-glass , by FRAUNHOFER , of about one inch and a half in diameter , and twelve inches focus .
When applied to the twenty-feet reflector , as described in the text , it formed an admirable microscope with its full aperture , -an extraordinary proof of the perfection of its construction , this being doubtless the severest test to which an achromatic object-glass can be possibly subjected .
The most beautiful object I can remember to have seen in telescopes was Jupiter entering , perfectly defined , and with all the appearance of a real globe , into the image of a small glass globule , placed in the focus of the collimating telescope .
It seemed like the mutual penetration of two solids , or rather two essences of different natures , the one bright and ethereal , the other dark and adamantine .
This most exquisite specimen of workmanship was destroyed by an accident .
That with which I have been forced , temporarily , to replace it , bears no comparison with the original , 489 minute , may be given to the line of collimation at pleasure .
By the aid of this mechanism , the perfect adjustment of the line of collimation ( to the full extenlt of the optical powers of the instrument , ) is performed in an instant , and may , if we please , be repeated at every observation , being attended with no trouble .
Nay , the line of collimation may be purposely deranged to any extent , and immediately corrected .
So that by graduating the grooved disks , and adopting an index to each , a very complete distance and position micrometer for the measurement of double stars might be formed , in which , if necessary , two lucid points might imitate the two stars to be compared .
To return , however , from this digression , and to illustrate by an example what is here said of the method of sweeping , we may take that of sweep 384 : in which the zero stars run as follow : No. Name of Star .
Observed Wire .
Observed Chronometer .
Index .
hms a9 PIAzzI , xxi .
383..21 57 5-0 1 15 30 13 3 Lacerte ... ... ..22 18 23*5 10 25 0 22 P.xxii .
276 ... .
2 53 21-0 10 25 30 29 P.xxiii .
73 ... .
23 17 25-0 127 45 31 P. 0 .
70 ... ... ... 046 22-0 2 047 35 41 P. i. 130 ... ... ... .
1 30 ? ?
57'0 221 30 49 4 Persei ... ... ... .
1 52 425 1 24050 60 P..115 ... .
2 26 44-5 1 01430 65 yPersei ... ... ... 2 54 95 11 51 15 79 P.iv .
7 ... ... ... 45 8-5 1 212 0 83 1 Camelop ... ... 4 21 8-5 : : 2 23240 84 2 Camelop ... ... . .
428 9'0 1280 By comparing the observations with PIAZZI'S catalogue brought up to 1830'0 , and with that of the Astronomical Society for the same epoch , we get the following values of R , r. 490 491 No. R. .
ms9 -1 27-8 -39 16 13 -1 31-0 -39 2 15 22.-1 30-5 -39 1 53 29 -1 35-7 -39 1 49 31 -1 30-9 -39 1 44 41 -1 36-4 --39 1 22 49 -1 41-3 -39 19 60 -1 34-9 -39 1 43 65 -1 37-8 -39 1 16 79 -1 39-1 -39 1 25 83 -1 40-5 -39 0 48 84 -1 38-2 -39 0 17 Constructing now an interpolating curve to pass among a series of points laid down from the chronometer readings taken as abscisse , and the values of R as ordinates , we get the following Table of A , by inspection of the coulrse of the curve , as read off upon the squares of the interpolating chart .
tA= t= A= hmms hm ms 21 0 -1 27-5 10 -1 35-3 22 0 -1 29-7 20 -1 36-8 230 -1 31-8 30 -1 38-0 00 -1 33-6 40 -1 39*0 10 -1 35-3 50 -1 39-8 Taking out now from this Table the values of A corresponding to the times of observation , and subtriacting them from those of R , we find the following for the interpolated residues or values of B( ) .
No. R. A. No. R. A. msms9 +0 1-9 49 -0 4-7 13 -0 0-6 60 +0 2*4 22 +0 0-8 65 0 0-0 29 -0 3-3 79 0 0-0 31 +0 3-8 83 -0 1-1 41 -0 0-3 84 +0 1-2 Laying these down in like manner on a divided chart , we get the interpolated values of B( ' ) as in the following Table , beside which are also annexed those of B(2 and B(S ) , obtained by adding to B( ' ) the corresponding values of 31S 09 cosec ( 39 ?
i ) , and 588'69 .
cosec ( 39 ?
i ) ; 39 ?
i being the approximate polar distance of any object in the sweep in lieu of 39 ?
+ i , because the telescope is directed between the zenith and pole , where i is taken negatively .
i B3(1 ) for 1st Wire .
B ) for 2nd Wire .
B(3 ) for leaving Field .
o , ms msm00 +0 3*1 -0 46-3 -1 3002 20 +0 2'5 47-3 31-6 40 +0 1-8 .
48-3 32'9 10 +0 1'2 -0 49-3 -1 34-2 20 +0 0-5 50'3 35'6 40 -0 0'2 51*4 37*0 20 -0 0'8 -0 52'5 -1 38-3 20 -0 1-4 53-5 39-7 40 ' -0 2'1 54-5 41-1 30 -0 2'7 -0 55'6 -1 42-6 A process exactly similar being gone through for a , the following Table .
for a and b , we find b= 0 , and ta =t a= h , , mmo / .
21039 10 39 1 34 22 01 59 201 24 230 1 51 30 110 00 1 43 40 0 55 10 39 1 34 50 39 0 36 These Tables constructed , all we have to do to reduce the whole series of objects comprised in the sweep ( 89 in number ) , is to take out from them , by proportional parts , the quantities corresponding to the registered time and index , and apply them with their proper signs .
Thus , for example , the star N. 446 in the cluster VIII .
80 , which is No. 308 of the general series in this paper , was observed in this sweep as follows : No. Chronometer .
Wire .
Index .
hmso/ / 73 3 38 14-0 1 19 0 And the process of reduction stands as follows : h ms / Chronom ... ... ... 3 38 14-0 Index ... ... ... ... ... 1 90 A ... ... ... ... 1 387 a ... ... ... ... .
+39 10 B( ) ... ... ... ... +0 0 08 N. P. D. 1830-0 ... ... ... .
=37 52 0 R. A. 1830-0 ... ... =3 36 36-1 With regard to the limits of probable error in the determination of places of such objects as have been only once observed , and which therefore admit of no check by the context , it may be right to say a few words .
I consider the probable error of a single good observation , free from mistakes in the readings and reductions , and occurring in a tolerably regular sweep , in which the zero stars are in sufficient number , not to exceed a second and a half of time in R. A. and 30 " in P. D. Mistakes , however , will unavoidably occur in the wire observed , in the minute of time ( owing to misadjustment of the chronometer hand ) , and in the numerical process of reduction .
All these are sure to be detected , and are easily corrected , when two or more observations of an object exist ; but when one only has been obtained , it remains liable to them all .
I can only hope that such cases are not numerous .
There is , however , one mode in which a mistake in the R. A. may arise , not so easily detected , and which though of rare occurrence , has certainly been committed occasionally , and has no doubt been the cause of some , if not all , the very bad discordances between right ascensions determined in different sweeps .
This is when the position wire of the micrometer , having been left in a direction nearly parallel to the meridian , has been mistaken for one of the fixed wires of the eye-piece , and the transit of the object over this , registered , in lieu of its passage across the true first or second wire .
The error thus produced may be of any amount less than the interval of the wires , and though habitually guarded against by setting the position wire obliquely after reading off , has evidently crept in , in some few cases , by the neglect of this precaution .
With respect to the discrepances , and apparent contradictions , which will be found in the descriptions of one and the same nebula in different sweeps , they are to be accounted for by differences in the states of the atmosphere , the mirror , and the eye , and will not appear at all surprising to any one accustomed to observation of this nature .
At the same time they will serve to show what caution we ought to use in admitting such discordances between descriptions of different observers furnished with different telescopes , as evidences of real changes in any nebula .
OBSERVATIONS List of figured Nebulae.-Continued .
Plate .
Figure .
Number in Synonyms .
R. A. N.P.D. Observations .
: : ; i a ... ... ... ... -h msO/ XV .
l 78 1358 7 Nova ... ... .
27 55 77 49 79 936 11 .
103 ... ... .
1131 24 73 43 XVI .
80 1991 IV .
41 ... 17 52 0 113 1 81 ' 357 M. 1 ... ... . .
5 24 16 68 7 82 2093 Nova. .
20 50 4 60 26 83 1352 1.92 ... ... 12 27 31 61 6 84 1466 II .
75 &amp; 74 ... 12 4421 7750 85 2245 II .
226 ... ... . .
23 19 58 68 31 86 1968 M.13 .
163537 5313 87 1916 M. 5 ... ... .
15 956 8716 88 2125 M. 2 .
21 24 40 91 34 89 1929 Nova ... ... .
15 29 9 83 27 90 2128 M.1 30 13042 11355 91415 VI .
2 ... ... . .
6 45 18 7149 Notes on the foregoing List .
Fig. 25 .
M. 51.-This very singular object is thus described by MESSIER .
- " N6buleuse sans 6toiles .
" " On no peut la voir que difficilement avec un lunette ordinaire de 3pieds .
" Elle est double , ayant chacune un centre brillant eloigne run de l'autre de 4 ' 35 " .
Les deux atmosphEres se touchent .
" By this description it is evident that the peculiar phenomena of the nebulous ring which encircles the central nucleus had escaped his observation , as might have been expected from the inferior light of his telescopes .
My Father describes it in his observations of MESSIERR'S nebulae ( which are not included in his catalogues , ) as a bright round nebula , surrounded by a halo or glory at a distance from it , and accompanied with a companion ; but I do not find that the partial subdivision of the ring into two branches throughout its south following limb was noticed by him .
This is , however , one of its most remarkable and interesting features .
Supposing it to consist of stars , the appearance it would present to a spectator placed on a planet attendant on one of them excentrically situated towards the north preceding quarter of the central mass , 496 would be exactly similar to that of our Milky Way , traversing in a manner precisely analogous the firmament of large stars , into which the central cluster would be seen projected , and ( owing to its greater distance ) appearing , like it , to consist of stars much smaller than those in other parts of the heavens .
Can it , then , be that we have here a brother-system bearing a real physical resemblance and strong analogy of structure to our own ?
Were it not for the subdivision of the ring , the most obvious analogy would be that of the system of Saturn , and the ideas of LAPLACE respecting the formation of that system would be powerfully recalled by this object .
But it is evident that all idea of symmetry caused by rotation on an axis must be relinquished , when we consider that the elliptic form of the inner subdivided portion indicates with extreme probability an elevation of that portion above the plane of the rest , so that the real form must be that of a ring split through half its circumference , and having the split portions set asunder at an angle of about 45 ?
each to the plane of the other .
Fig. 26 .
MEss .
27.-Described by MESSIER thus : " Nebuleuse sans &amp; .
" " On la voit bien avec un lunette ordinaire de 32 pieds : elle parait sous un form ovale et no contient aucune 6toile .
" In my Father 's observations the true form ( like that of a double-headed shot or dumb-bell , ) was of course distinctly perceived , and the small stars it contains are noticed , and taken as an indication of its resolvability .
I incline , however , to the opinion of their being accidental stars ( of which multitudes exist in the surrounding region ) .
But here , as in the former object , the feature which gives a peculiar interest to the whole nebula , and alters entirely the light in which its physical constitution must be considered , has been hitherto overlooked , -I mean the faint nebulosity which fills in the lateral concavities of the body , and converts them in fact into protuberances , so as to render the general outline of the whole nebula , a regular ellipse , having for its shorter axis the common axis of the two bright masses of which the body consists , that is to say , the longer axis of the oval form , under which it was imperfectly seen by MESSIER .
To this axis the complete figure is symmetrical , and if we are disposed to regard it as a mass in rotation , it is about this axis that we must suppose it to revolve .
In that case its real form must be that of an oblate spheroid ; and as it does not follow that the brightest portions must of necessity be the densest , this supposition would 497 not be incompatible with dynamical laws , at least , supposing its parts to be capable of exerting pressure on one another .
But if it consist of discrete stars , this cannot be admitted , and we must have recourse then to other suppositions to account for the maintenance of its form .
Fig. 27 .
MEss .
64.-The dark semi-elliptic vacancy ( indicated by an unshaded or bright portion in the figure , ) which partially surrounds the condensed and bright nucleus of this nebula , is of course unnoticed by MESSIER .
It was however seen by my Father , and shown by him to the late Sir CHARLES BLAGDEN , who likened it to the appearance of a black eye , an odd , but not inapt comparison .
The nucleus is somewhat elongated , and I have a strong suspicion that it may be a close double star , or extremely condensed double nebula .
Fig. 28 .
V. 19.-An extraordinary object .
Perhaps the representation in the figure is too nicely symmetrical , as it certainly is too sharply defined and distinct .
It is of the last degree of faintness , and may very well be unperceived , though full in the field of view .
There can hardly be a doubt of its being a thin flat ring , of enormous dimensions , seen very obliquely .
Fig. 29 .
MESS .
57.-The annular nebula in Lyra .
It is ill represented .
The edges exhibit a curdled and confused appearance , like stars out of focus .
The interior is far from absolutely dark .
It is filled with a feeble but very evident nebulous light , which I do not remember to have seen noticed by former observers .
Comparing figures 25 , 27 , 28 , 29 and 48 , it will appear that the annular form , or an approach to it , is one of those which nebulae affect , and taken in connexion with the ring of Saturn and the Milky Way , may lead us to conceive that some kind of analogy , however obscure , may subsist in all those cases .
Fig. 33.-The engraving represents this very strange nebula much too intense .
It is an extremely faint object .
The large double star is k Cygni .
Fig. 35 .
MEss .
17.-The figure of this nebula is nearly that of a Greek capital omega l , somewhat distorted and very unequally bright .
It is remarkable that this is the form usually attributed to the great nebula in Orion , though in that nebula I confess I can discern no resemblance whatever to the Greek letter .
MESSIER perceived only the bright preceding branch of the nebula now in question , without any of the attached convolutions which were 498 first noticed by my Father .
The chief peculiarities which I have observed in it are , 1st , the resolvable knot in the following portion of the bright branch , which is in a considerable degree insulated from the surrounding nebula ; strongly suggesting the idea of an absorption of the nebulous matter ; and 2ndly , the much feebler and smaller knot at the north preceding end of the same branch , where the nebula makes a sudden bend at an acute angle .
With a view to a more exact representation of this curious nebula , I have at different times taken micrometrical measures of the relative places of the stars in and near it , by which , when laid down as in a chart , its limits may be traced and identified , as I hope soon to have better opportunity to do than its low situation in this latitude will permit .
Fig. 37 .
V. 24 , and Fig. 50 .
I. 43.-The strong suspicion of a parallel appendage to the latter of these , is almost converted into certainty by its undoubted existence in V. 24 , in which it was seen by two other observers as well as by myself .
But what are we to make of such an appendage ?
Must we consider it as an extreme exaggeration of the case of M. 64 ( fig. 27 ) , in which the vacancy is extended up to almost the very extremities of the elliptic outline , .
in which case the nebula would come to be regarded as a flat annulus seen at a great obliquity , and having very unequal breadths and densities in its two opposite semicircles ?
Or must we admit the appendage to be a separate and distinct nebula , dependent , by some unknown physical relation , on its brighter neighbour ?
Fig. 43.-This remarkable object , as my Father rightly observes , appears to constitute a connecting link between the planetary nebulae and nebulous stars .
It differs from the latter class of objects in respect of the intensity and comparatively sharp termination of the surrounding light ; and no less from the former , in that of its stellar centre .
With regard to nebulous stars generally , I ought to mention that it has frequently occurred to me to notice a peculiar state of the atmosphere in which all large stars ( above the 7th magnitude ) have appeared surrounded with photospheres of 2 ' or 3 ' or more in diameter , precisely resembling that about some of the finer specimens of nebulous stars .
The state of the air alluded to , is not that in which fog , or any degree of haziness , or thin strata of cloud are perceptible to the sight .
These produce no such appearance .
Stars are seen through fog , cloud , or ordinary haze , pre 499 cisely as if there were no such intervening medium ; only less bright .
The photospheres in question are often seen when the sky seems quite pure and clear .
They do not arise from dew on the glasses , as is proved by wiping them ; nor in the eye itself , for they do not vanish when the star is made to blink behind one of the thick wires of the eye-piece ; nor in scabrous polish of the mirror , for they are not permanent .
They come on suddenly ; seldom last very long , and disappear as unexpectedly as they come .
When first this phenomenon presented itself , a considerable star which appeared so surrounded was at once set down as a superb nebulous star , and it was not until another and another entered the field similarly affected , that any doubt arose .
As regards the true cause of this phenomenon , that it is atmospheric I have no doubt , and perhaps it must be looked for in some highly rarefied material , disseminated in cloud-like , though invisible , masses , in the very highest regions of our atmosphere , the same possibly which , when ignited by the passage of electric currents , gives rise to many if not all the phenomena of the aurora borealis .
Be that as it may , the fact that an appearance , exactly resembling that of a nebulous star , may originate in a non-luminous medium , interposed between the eye and the star , serves to render it not improbable that such matter may exist , disseminated through the ether itself in determinate localities , and may render some stars which shine through it nebulous , which have no real nebulous atmospheres about them .
The frequency of nebulous stars in the constellation of Orion seems to afford some support to this idea , though I am far from contending that there are no stars really nebulous .
Of such the object immediately under consideration , indeed , must be regarded as an undoubted instance .
Figs. 44 ... .
47.-Planetary nebulae .
The point to which I should here draw attention is the frequent and close proximity to these objects , of minute stars , which suggest the idea of accompanying satellites .
Such they may possibly be .
The enormous magnitude of these bodies , and consequent probable mass ( if they be not hollow shells ) , may give them a gravitating energy , which , however rare we may conceive them to be , may yet be capable of retaining in orbits , three or four times their own diameter , and in periods of great length , small bodies of a stellar character .
In this point of view a continued series of the angles of position of their companions , micromretrically measured with 500 NEBULi5 AND CLUSTERS OF STARS .
mue care , would be interesting ; and I regret not having sufficiently attended to this in my observations , the few measures given , being hurried , imperfect and discordant .
Plate XIV .
Figs. 50 ... .
67.-Long nebulc .
The general form of elongated nebulae is elliptic , and their condensation towards the centre is almost invariably such as would arise from the superposition of luminous elliptic strata , increasing in density towards the centre .
In many cases ( as in fig. 53 , ) this increase of density is obviously attended with a diminution of ellipticity , or a nearer approach to the globular form in the central than in the exterior strata .
It is probably owing to this , that extended nebulae seen in dull or hazy states of the sky are often described as round , the fainter and more elliptic envelopes being obliterated , and only the more globular nuclei perceived .
The great extension of some nebulae into long lenticular rays , and the existence of every intermediate degree of ellipticity up to the exact circular form , with the various degrees of rapidity of central condensation , from a barely perceptible increase of density to a seemingly solid nucleus , are all accounted for by supposing the general constitution of these nebulae to be that of oblate spheroidal nasses of every degree of flatness from the sphere to the disc , and of every variety in respect of the law of their density and ellipticity towards the centre .
It would be incorrect , however , to draw from this any inference as to the identity of the forces which maintain them in this form with those which determine the oblate spheroidal form of a revolving fluid mass under the dominion of the law of gravitation , and subject to compression by the superincumbent matter .
If a nebula be nothing more than a cluster of discrete stars , ( as we have every reason to believe , at least in the generality of cases , ) no pressure can be propagated through it ; and its equilibrium , or , to speak more correctly , the permanence of its form , must be maintained in a way totally different .
In a system so constituted , no general rotation of the whole , as a mass , can be supposed .
It must rather be conceived as a quiescent form , comprising within its limits an indefinite multitude of individual constituents , which , for aught we can tell , may be moving one among the other , each animated by its own inherent projectile force , and deflected into an orbit more or less complicated , by the influence of that law of internal gravitation which may result from the compounded attractions of all its parts .
I have shown elsewhere* how a quiescent spherical form may subsist as the bounding outline of an immense number of equal stars uniformly distributed through its extent , each of which individually atracts all the others with a force inversely as the square of the distance , and whose united attractions compose an internal force on each , directly proportional to the distance from the centre of the sphere .
In such a state of things , each star might describe an ellipse in any plane , and in any direction in that plane about the common centre , without the possibility of collision ; but the sphere , regarded as a whole , would have no rotation about any axis .
If the form be not spherical , and the distribution of the stars not homogeneous , the dynamical relations become too complicated to be distinctly apprehended , yet we may still conceive that something of an analogous result may subsist , and that both the external form and the internal density may be maintained ( at least under certain conditions , ) for the mass as a quiescent whole , while all its elements are in a state of unceasing transfer and interchange .
Plate XV .
Figs. 68 ... .79.-Double nebulae .
All the varieties of double stars , as to distance , position and relative brightness , have their counterparts in double nebulae ; besides which , the varieties of form and gradation of light in the latter afford room for combinations peculiar to this class of objects .
The series of figures expressed in this Plate exhibits a considerable number of these combinations ; and it will , I think , be found impossible , on casting our eye over its contents , and referring mentally to the great number of similar objects scattered through the heavens , to refuse our assent to the idea of a more intimate physical relation between the individuals of a double nebula than that of mere casual juxtaposition .
The argument drawn from the comparative rarity of the objects in proportion to the whole extent of the heavens , so cogent in the case of the double stars , is infinitely more so in that of the double nebulae .
Nebule , for example , so large and faint , and so little condensed towards the centre as those of V. 29 , ( fig. 68 , ) are extremely rare , even single , so that the improbability of two such , casually occurring , so near together as to mix their nebulosities , is extreme .
It will therefore become a very interesting subject of future inquiry , whether any traces of orbitual motion ( indicated by a progressive change in their angles of position with respect to the meri* Cabinet Cyclopoedia , ASTRONOMY , last page .
502 dian , ) can be detected in these combinations .
The micrometrical measures of many of them which occur in the foregoing obserlvations , though neither so numerous nor so accurate as might be wished , will at least serve as terms of rough comparison , sufficient at least for the detection of rapid rotations .
Plate XVI .
Figs. 80 , 82 , 83 , 84 , 85 represent nebulae which offer some remarkable peculiarity of situation with respect to stars .
Of these the most singular are IV .
41 , ( fig. 80 , ) and that of fig. 82 .
The latter , however , is very imperfectly expressed in the drawing .
Indeed it would be excessively difficult to execute a drawing of such an object with any pretensions to correctness .
In this , general resemblance and character only has been aimed at , enough to express the peculiar feature of the object , which is a network or tracery of nebulae following the lines of a similar network of stars .
It is an extremely faint and difficult object , and only once observed ; but I do not think it possible I could have been deceived as to the reality of the phenomenon , especially since the brighter parts of the nebula are stated in the observation to have been distinctly seen .
Figs. 81 , 86 , 87 , 88 , 89 , 90 , 91 are clusters of stars , beginning with a barely resolvable one , ( M. 1 .
fig. 81 , ) and ascending by successive degrees , -figs .
89 , 88 , 87 , to M. 13 , fig. 86 , which is one of the most magnificent assemblages of stars the heavens contain .
They are instructive , exhibiting , as they do , an analysis of the intimate structure of nebulae , on which depend many of the peculiarities of their appearance when no stars can be actually discerned in them , such as , for example , that peculiar character to which , when it has occurred , the epithet " hairy " or " filamentous " has been attached in the descriptions , and which is well illustrated by the figure ( fig. 86 ) of MESSIER 's 13th , and by the description of e rd the 53rd of the Connaissance des Tems ( No. 1558 in the above observations , ) as set down in sweep 63 ; the border , instead of melting away insensibly , having a ragged or fibrous appearance .
Again , fig. 90 , if removed far enough to lose the stars , would be described , doubtless , as irregularly round or unsymmetrical , if not as having a bifid or forked tail : and fig. 91 ( VI .
2 , ) would , under similar circumstances of removal , appear as a fan-shaped nebula with a bright point like a star at the vertex , such as is represented in figs. 65 , 66 , 67 , 68 .
Before terminating this Appendix , it should be explained what is meant by 3T2 503 the references , so frequent in the observations , to ac working list .
" It has been my invariable practice to prepare before each night 's sweep a list , in order of R. A. with approximate polar distances , of the principal objects occurring within the zone intended to be embraced in the sweep , and about 5 ' or 10 ' above and below it .
It is needless to mention that the nebulae of these lists were mostly those of my Father 's sweeps , -not , however , as taken merely from his printed catalogue , in which only references of their places to the nearest large stars are stated , but as reduced and digested ( with great patience and care ) into a regular catalogue in zones , by my aunt , Miss CAROLINE HERSCHEL .
This valuable MS .
, which performs the same office with regard to my Father 's sweeps , as far as concerns the places of the nebulae , as the present digested and reduced series of observations does to my own , has therefore been , in point of fact , the groundwork of my whole proceedings , and I should be not only ungrateful , but in a high degree unjust , were I to omit in this place acknowledging the advantage I have derived from its use .
At the commencement of my sweeps , I contented myself , however , with a bare notice of the chief expected nebulae , but finding that owing to the interest excited by these objects , the zero stars were too much neglected , and smaller nebule missed , these came to be inserted at convenient intervals .
Subse- .
quently , too , the double stars of STRuvE 's catalogue began to be entered on the lists ; and at length , experience having shown me that no trouble bestowed on the construction of an ample and exact c " working list " could be considered ill bestowed , I threw aside all the earlier lists of this sort , and dividing the heavens into zones of polar distance , of 30 in breadth from 00 to 120 ?
, proceeded to construct a series of lists or approximate catalogues in order of R. A. for 1830 , in which should be comprised the following objects : 1st .
All my Father 's nebulae and clusters .
2nd .
MESSIER'S ditto .
3rd .
All other nebulae and clusters of which any hints could anywhere be found , including new ones from my own sweeps , inserted from time to time .
4th .
All the double stars of STRUVE'S greater catalogue .
5th .
All other remarkable double stars of which any record could be found , either in my own sweeps or elsewhere .
6th .
A series of zero stars , chosen so as to interfere as little as possible with 504 the other objects , and selected from the catalogue of the Astronomical Society ; or where none fit for the purpose could be found there , from PIAZZI'S ; or failing that , from other authorities .
The construction of the " working lists " on this extended scale , has formed a very large part of the regular work of my sweeps ; but so far from regretting the trouble they have cost , or regarding it as waste labour , I can only lament having deferred their full execution till impressed by the experience of much more , and far more valuable observing time lost , with a sense of their importance .
One consequence of the construction of the working lists has been the gradual accumulation of a pretty extensive catalogue of missing nebulvae ; -perhaps it would be more correct to say , nebulae not found when looked for .
The fainter nebulae are so easily overlooked , even when in the field of view , and are altogether such very delicate objects , that it is the most difficult thing in the world to prove the negative proposition as to their existence .
Many such cases , too , must have originated in mistaken entries on the list , some doubtless in mistakes in the observations from which those lists were constructed , and some from actually looking in the wrong places by mistaken settings of the telescope .
Aware of all these possibilities , I have thought it best to suppress this list for the present , having had no time to go into an examination of the subject .
Indeed I doubt whether it would be worth while to do so .
There seems very little probability that a real nebula should have disappeared from the heavens ; and though some few telescopic comets may have been noticed in my Fathes sweeps , and set do an s nebule , the chances are almost infinite against any such observation , if ascertained , proving of use as a datum for improving the elements of any recorded comet .
505

