]\gt ; in the theory of Abelian integrals and functions , as its integral us to a form which , when operaed on by , leads us to a nn algebraic equation , which again leads to another by a second tion of the operator .
By this method I obtain a number of ing results , many of which are now given for the first time , as far sm I am aware .
I then define Abelian funcions and , by a method of treatment depending on what precedes , show that they are periodic functiom and detel'mine their periods .
We have at first sight 2 independent periods , and I them to 2 by an easy application of the oing theory .
The above is a short 'bstract of what my paper contains , the nosl important portions of it being ( a ) the determination of the gsbmio integrals in a rational and integral form ; ( b ) the easy proof of the periodicity of Abelian functions .
I omit from this paper a discussion of the in which number of variables exceeds , as likely to make my communicaW too lengthy .
III .
" " On the Application of the Kinetic Theory to DSr Gascs\ldquo ; By .
H. BUBBURY , F.R.S. Beceived Abstract .
) ' 1 .
Start with Clausius ' equation iu which denotes pressure per unit of area , volume , kinetic ellergy of relative motion .
Also is the repulsive force , distance between the centres of two spheres , and the includes ] pairs .
of the Kinetic to Dense Gases .
303 .
Evaluate , on the assumption that no forces act except during collisions .
That gives being the diameter of a sphere and the number of spheres in unit of volume .
Let Then and 3 .
This ests that we should take for our law of distribution of ergy , not , as in a rale medium , but 4 .
To { est that suggestion , consider the case of an infinitc vertical column of gas subject to a constant vertical force .
We have , if be the height above a fixed plane , Assuming for the moment the wholc energy to be that of relative motion , that gives Now contains as a factor .
If we make constant , as in the rare medium , the equation is impracticable .
But make constant , and we get the usual equation / being the value of when 6 , 6 , 7 , 8 .
Now consider ) eres crossing the plane , with for vertical com ponent of velocity .
Of these some will collision before reaching .
But an equalnumber will be substituted for them with the same vertical velocity , but a small average advance in position in direction , owing to the finite diameter .
It in shown that on average of the spheres this advarJce is , and , therefore , the class of spheres , or substituted , will at the end of the time be at the height , not , but on average But their loss of kinetic energy by the action of the force is only Mfds .
And , , the loss due to the height is , allowing for tions , 9 , 10 .
ence we find that the assumption isfiefi all the conditions of equilibrium in exactly the same way as in the mediu satisfies them .
11 The sult can now be generalised by introducing stream motion , the enorgy of which is , as well that of relative motion , and we find that must be constant roughout the column .
Say , now , .
I have given elsewhere Science Progress , ' November , which the coefficients have yet to be dstermined .
14 , 15 .
The " " \ldquo ; coefficients musb be all positive , the " " \ldquo ; coeffi .
cients all negative ; and the coefficients express the fact that tbs pairs of velocities to which they are not independent ; and , being express the fact that the two velocities are more likely to be of the same thain of opposite signs , so that there will be on the of any group of contiguous spheres a greater commoA or stream motion than there would be the velocities all inds .
pendent .
16 .
The coefficients must generally diminish as the distance be .
tween the two spheres to which they relate increases , becoming anescent when that distance is great enough .
17 .
If the chance for a group of spheres be of the form and for a group of spheres , part of the spheres , and must be connected by the relation If eifect the integration for one variable we find , if in which 2 ; ; \amp ; c. shows that as diminishes the coefficients diminish , and since every coefficient is negative the 's increase in absolute so that the ratios or increase .
On the other hand , increases the 's increase , and the squares and products of the form or diminish .
Whence it is inferred that as function tends to assume a limiting form .
This limiting form must be when , and must be such as to make less than it would be won the velocities independent .
It may then be assurned to bo of Kinetic to Dense Gases .
18 , 19 .
the law to be , we have -\amp ; c. and , forming ths determinant , With , \amp ; c. , for minors , we find and therefore ) \amp ; c. And since and have corresponLling values , therefore These results are easily obtained by considering the ninant . . . . .
It will bo found for , aJld thence by induction for all valnes of , that .
Whence , by , and by \mdash ; , we get the results above stated .
therefore , which increases as increases , paribus as the diameter of the spheres increases .
the mean pressure per unit of area is whioh independent of .
For a ystem of material points , that is in this case .
As the spheres increase in di meter with constant , remains constaut .
The number of collisions per unit of volume and time varies as , that is , as , and is , therefore , less than it would be if , with the same diameter , the spheres had veIocities independent other .
20 .
It follows from the fact that is independent of , that local variations of density , that is of , invol , on the whole , no expendi .
of work , and will , in fact , come into 21 .
The effect of collisions between the spheres is now considered directly , to show how we obtain the known results that collisions between members of a group of spheres tend to redtlce the group to " " special state\ldquo ; in is constant thoughout the group .
Let the compouent velocities of two eres be befooe collision and after collisio There ] , if the two members of a roup and the chance ) the members of the group have rled velocities is , in which coefficients being all alike and the 's all alike , we find that the chance for the velocities after the collision is , in which is the same function of , \amp ; c. , that is of , \amp ; c. This lows that the distribution is ) disburbed by collisions if all alike and all the 's alike .
The is in the state .
22 .
But if the 's differ from each other or the 's differ from other , it is shown that collisions tend to reduce them to equality , with and with ; that is to reduce the group to the special 2 : ; .
Boltzmann 's minimum tends to diminish by finally constant for any group of contiguous spheres , becomes uniform throughout the group .
On the other the group becomes too large , the spheres composing it develo tendency to split up into smaller groups , each with : , February 7 , 1895 .
Transactions .
Basel :Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Verhandlungen .
Band X. Heft 2 . .
Basel 1894 .
The Society .
Batavia:\mdash ; Bataviaasch enootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen .
Notulen van de Algemeene en Bestuursvergaderingen .
Deel XXXI .
Aflevering 3 , en 4 .
Deel XXXII .
Aflevering 1 , en 2 .
; der Ethnologische Verzameling .
Vierde Druk .
Supplement .
Batavia 1894 ; Nederlandsch-Indisch Plakaatboek 1602\mdash ; 1811 .
Twaalfde Deel , 1795\mdash ; 1799 .
atavia 1894 ; Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal , Land en Volkenkunde .
Deel XXXVII . .
Deel XXXVIII .
Aflevering 1 Bafavia 1893-94 ; Verhandelingen .
Deel XLVII .
Stuk .
Deel XLVIII .
Stuk . .
Batavia 1893 .
The Academy .
Berlin :Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft .
Berichfe .
1894 .
Nos. 10\mdash ; 18 . .
Berlin .
The Society .
Royale de Medecine .
Bulletin .
Tome VIII .
Nos. 5-10 .
Bruxelles 1894 .
The Academy .
Academy Royale des Sciences .
Bulletin .
Tome XXVII .
Nos. 5\mdash ; 11 . .
Bruxelles 1894 .
The Academy .
Florence :Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale .
Bollettino .
1894 .
Giugno-Dicembre .
irenze .
The Library .
London :Chemical Society .
Journal .
July\mdash ; December , 1894 . .
London .
Proceedings .
Nos. 140\mdash ; 146 . .
London 1894 .
The Society .
Geological Society .
Abstract of the Proceedings .
Nos. 628\mdash ; 684 . .
London 1894 ; Quarterly Journal .
Vol. LI .
Part I. .
London 1895 .
The Society .
Institution of Civil Enginecrs .
tract of Proceedings .
Session 1894-95 .
Nos. 1\mdash ; 4 . .
London .
The Institution .
Institution of Electrical Engineers .
Journal .
Vol. XXIII .
Nos. 112 , .
London 1894 .
The Institution .
Society of Great Britain .
Pharmaceutical Journal and Transactions .
July\mdash ; December , 1894 .
London .
The Society .

