650 The Lignite of Tracey .
By Clement Reid , F.R.S. , and Eleanor M. Reid , B.Sc. , ( Received May 30 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1910 .
) ( Abstract .
) In 1863 , Heer and Pengelly published in the ' Phil. Trans. ' an account of these lignite-beds and their flora .
Heer classed the lignite as Lower Miocene , considering it equivalent to the Aquitanian of Prance and to the Hamstead Beds of the Isle of Wight .
These latter are now referred to the Middle Oligocene , and many of the other deposits called Lower Miocene in Heer 's day are now classed as Upper Oligocene .
A statement hy Mr. Starkie Gardner , that Heer 's Bovey plants are the same as those found in the Bournemouth Beds ( Middle Eocene ) , has caused the Bovey Beds to be classed as Eocene in recent text-books and on recent maps of the Geological Survey , leaving a great gap in the geological record in Britain .
Every division , from Upper Oligocene to Upper Miocene , was supposed to be missing .
Our recent researches have not supported this view , but tend rather to show that Heer was right\#151 ; the Bovey lignite is highest Oligocene , or perhaps lowest Miocene .
We could not find in the Bournemouth collection ( now in the British Museum ) anything to support Gardner 's view , and he does not appear to have collected at Bovey , his comments referring to the collection now in the Museum of Practical Geology .
We therefore made a collection of seeds and fruits in the Bovey deposits , as far as the flooded state of the lignite-pit would allow , in order to settle if possible the true age of the lignite .
/ The results were unexpected , for by using new methods we obtained a considerable number of species , and they were mainly identical with well-known plants of the lignite of the* Wetterau , which is generally classed as Upper Oligocene .
In certain cases , better specimens showed also that Heer 's supposed peculiar species of Bovey belong to well-known forms of the Rhine lignite\#151 ; his Vitis britannica , for instance , is only a crushed seed of Vitis teutonica .
Several curious new species were discovered , including the earliest known Rubus , a peculiar Potawiogeton , and a new genus of A study of the anatomy of the cone and leaf of proves that it is a true Sequoia , not , as has been suggested , a species of

