99 1878.1 On Intercepting Germinal Matter of the Air .
for hours by carefully applying interrupted currents to the sinus venotms ; and although the authors of this paper , in repeating the experiment , have sometimes failed to inhibit indefinitely\#151 ; as did also Meyer\#151 ; they have always found it possible to stop the heart for very long intervals by stimulating the sinus venosus ; even with weaker currents than had just before sufficed to exhaust simultaneously the inhibiting powers of both vagi .
II .
" On Schulze 's Mode of Intercepting the Germinal Matter of the Air .
" By John Tyndall , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received December 17 , 1877 .
In " Poggendorf 's Annalen " for 1886 , Franz Schulze described an experiment which has attained considerable celebrity .
He placed in a flask a mixture of vegetable and animal matters and water ; through the cork of the flask two glass tubes passed air-tight , each being bent at a right angle above the cork .
He boiled the infusion ; and while steam issued from the two glass tubes , he attached to each of them a group of Liebig 's bulbs , one group being filled with solution of caustic potash , and the other with concentrated sulphuric acid .
Applying his mouth on the potash side , he sucked air daily through the sulphuric acid into the flask .
But , though the process was continued from the end of May till the beginning of August , no life appeared .
In this experiment , the germs diffused in the atmosphere are supposed to have been destroyed by the sulphuric acid , and doubtless this was the case .
Other experimenters , however , in repeating the experiment of Schulze , have failed to obtain his results .
The experiments of Dr. Hughes Bennett are a case in point , to which I might add certain failures of my own .
Schulze 's success is , perhaps , in part to be ascribed to the purity of the air in which he worked ; possibly , also , to extreme care in drawing the air into his flask ; or , it may be , that the peculiar disposition of his experiment favoured him .
Within the flask , as shown by his diagram , both his glass tubes terminated immediately under the cork , so that the air , entering by the one tube , was immediately sucked into the other , thus failing to mix completely with the general air of the flask .
At a very moderate rate of transfer , I found , in 1869 , that germs could pass unscathed through caustic potash and sulphuric acid in succession .
To render the experiment secure , the air-bubbles must pass so slowly through the sulphuric acid , that the floating matter , up to the very core of every bubble , must come into contact with the surrounding liquid .
It must , of course , touch the acid before it can be destroyed .
100 Dr. Tyndall .
Germinal Matter of the Air .
[ Feb. 14 , Reflecting on this experiment , and knowing that a sealed chamber , simply wetted within , suffices to detain the floating matter coming into contact with its interior surface , I thought that the same must hold good for the air-bubbles passing through a group of Liebig 's bulbs .
Every bubble , in fact , represents a closed chamber of infinitesimal size , and it seemed plain that if the walls of this chamber were formed of water instead of sulphuric acid , the floating matter would be effectually intercepted . .
This was a conclusion arrived at last summer , in the Alps .
On my return to London I tested the conclusion , and found it verified by experiment .
Two large test-tubes , each about two-thirds filled with turnip infusion , were so connected together , that air could be drawn through them in succession .
With a view to their sterilization , the tubes were subjected for .a sufficient time to the action of boiling water , and permitted to remain afterwards in a room kept at a temperature of 90 ' Fahr. , until it was evident that sterilization had been complete .
Two narrow tubes , passed through the cork of each test-tube , in the same manner as in Schulze 's flask , and it was so arranged that the tube which delivered the air should end near the surface of the liquid , the exit tube in each case ending immediately under the cork .
Two series of Liebig 's bulbs , charged with pure water , were attached to the two ends of this arrangement ; one series being connected with a large receiver , placed on the plate of an air-pump , and the other left open to the air .
The connection between the receiver and the adjacent series of bulbs being first cut off by a pinch-cock , the receiver was exhausted , and , by carefully loosening the pinch-cock , a very slow passage of the air through the test-tubes was secured .
The rate of transfer was , however , such , that the air above the infusions was renewed twenty or thirty times in twenty-four hours .
At the end of twelve days , during which this process was continued day and night , the turnip juice was perfectly pellucid and free from life .
Two days ' exposure to ordinary air sufficed to render the infusion muddy .
After twelve days the pinch-cock was opened , so as to allow a momentary inrush of the external air , which was , immediately checked by the reclosing of the cock .
Three days afterwards , the infusion of the test-tube , into which the air first entered , was muddy and crowded with life .
The contamination did not reach the second test-tube , which remains to the present hour intact .
Other experiments of a similar character have been executed with precisely the same result .
I will not occupy the Society 's time by describing them .
Suffice it to say , that they completely verify the conclusion that , in Schulze 's experiment , water may be substituted for sulphuric acid and caustic potash without any alteration in the result .

