437 W On the Companions of Argon .
:vestigated by means of radiometer mill wheels , recently described i a paper to the Physical Society .
In any case , it seems clear that in the tubes observed and photo--aphed with the pin-hole camera , the Rontgen rays given off by jrtain portions of the fluorescent glass are not originated by the apact of an ordinary cathode stream , but apparently by the apact of positively charged streams proceeding from the anti-ithode .
The writer is greatly indebted to Mr. J. C. M. Stanton and Mr. H. yson Wolff , for the construction of the apparatus described , as also .r valuable assistance in the carrying out of the experiments .
On the Companions of Argon .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , * and Morris W. Travers .
Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June ' 16,1898 .
For many months past we have been engaged in preparing a large uantity of argon from atmospheric air by absorbing the oxygen nth red-hot copper , and the nitrogen with magnesium .
The amount -e have at our disposal is some 18 litres .
It will be remembered hat one of us , in conjunction with Dr. Norman Collie , attempted to eparate argon into light and heavy portions by means of diffusion , nd , although there was a slight difference* in density between the ight and the heavy portions , yet we thought the difference too slight Oi warrant the conclusion that argon is a mixture .
But our xperience with helium taught us that it is a matter of the greatest difficulty to separate a very small portion of a heavy gas rom a large admixture of a light gas ; andvit therefore appeared advisable to re-investigate argon , with the view of ascertaining yhether it is indeed complex .
, In the meantime , Dr. Hampson had placed at our disposa is -esources for preparing large quantities of liquid air , ^ and it was a simple matter to liquify the argon which we had obtained by causing* -he liquid air to boil under reduced pressure .
By means of a two* vay stopcock the argon was allowed to enter a small bulb , cooled by liquid air , after passing through purifying reagents .
The two-way stopcock was connected with mercury gas-holders , as well as with l Topler pump , by means of which any part of the apparatus could be thoroughly exhausted .
The argon separated as a liquid , but at the same time a considerable quantity of solid was observed to separate partially round the sides of the tube , and partially below the * Density of lighter portion , 19-93 ; of heavier portion , 20-01 , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , \#187 ; rol .
60 , p. 206 .
438 Prof , W. Kamsay and Mr. M. W. Travers .
surface of the liquid .
After about 13 or 14 litres of the argon Id been condensed , the stopcock was closed , and the temperature \s kept low for some minutes in order to establish a condition of eqi librium between the liquid and vapour .
In the meantime , the ci " necting tubes were exhausted and two fractions of gas were tain off by lowering the mercury reservoirs , each fraction consisting , f about 50 or 60 cubic cm .
These fractions should contn the light gas .
In a previous experiment of the same kind , a sml fraction of the light gas had been separated , and was found to haec the density 17 2 .
The pressure of the air was now allowed y rise , and the argon distilled away into a separate gas-holder .
white solid which had condensed in the upper portion of the bib did not appear to evaporate quickly , and that portion which hi separated in the liquid did not perceptibly diminish in amoui .
Towards the end , when almost all the air had boiled away , fe last portions of the liquid evaporated slowly , and when the remainir liquid was only sufficient to cover the solid , the bulb was placed i connection with the Topler pump , and the exhaustion contimu .
until the liquid had entirely disappeared .
Only the solid nc remained , and the pressure of the gas in the apparatus was only , few millimetres .
The bulb was now placed in connection with me cury gas-holders , and the reservoirs were lowered .
The solid vol tilised very slowly , and was collected in two fractions , each of abo* 70 or 80 cubic cm .
Before the second fraction had been take off , the air had entirely boiled away , and the jacketing tube hf been removed .
After about a minute , on wiping off the coating i c \#166 ; snow with the finger , the solid was seen to melt , and volatilise int the gas-holder .
The first fraction of gas was mixed with oxygen , and sparked ovt soda .
After removal of the oxygen with phosphorus it was into duced into a vacuum-tube , and the spectrum examined .
It ws characterised by a number of bright red lines , among which one wa particularly brilliant , and a brilliant yellow line , while the green an the blue lines were numerous , but comparatively inconspicuous .
Th wave-length of the yellow line , measured by Mr. Baly , was 5849'6 , with a second-order grating spectrum .
It is , therefore , not identica with sodium , helium , or krypton , all of which equal it in intensity The wave-lengths of these lines are as follows :\#151 ; Na ( D , ) ___ _________ 5895 0 Ha ( D2 ) ... ... ... ... . .
5889-0 He ( D3 ) ... ... ... ... . .
5875-9 Kr ( D4 ) 5866-5 He ( De ) ... ... ... ... ... 5849-6 The density of this gas , which we propose to name " neon* On the Companions of Argon .
( bw ) , was next determined .
A bulb of 32'35 cubic cm .
capacity , s filled with this sample of neon at 612"4 mm. pressure , and at a tnperature of 19-92 ' it weighed 0-03184 gram .
Density of neon ... ... ... ... .
14*67 .
This number approaches to what we had hoped to obtain .
In .ler to bring neon into its position in the periodic table , a density , 10 or 11 is required .
Assuming the density of argon to be 20 , .
d that of pure neon 10 , the sample contains 53'3 per cent , of the w gas .
If the density of neon be taken as 11 , there is 59 2 per at .
present in the sample .
The fact that the density has decreased om 17*2 to 14-7 shows that there is a considerable likelihood that e gas can be farther purified by fractionation.* That this gas is a new one is sufficiently proved , not merely by the .velty of its spectrum and by its low density , but also by its beha-our in a vacuum-tube .
Unlike helium , argon , and krypton , it is , pidly absorbed by the red-hot aluminium electrodes of a vaeuum the , and the appearance of the tube changes , as pressure falls , from )ry red to a most brilliant orange , which is seen in no other gas .
We now come to the gas obtained by the volatilisation of the white lid which remained after the liquid argon had boiled away .
r When introduced into a vacuum-tube it showed a very complex \gt ; ectrum , totally differing from that of argon , while resembling it in sneral character .
With low dispersion it appeared to be a banded )ectrum , but with a grating , single bright lines appear , about equi-istant throughout the spectrum , the intermediate space being filled ith many dim , yet well-defined lines .
Mr. Baly has measured the right lines , with the following results .
The nearest argon lines , as leasured by Mr. Crookes , are placed in brackets : B Beds very feeble , not measured . ?
First green band , first bright line .
5632 *5 ( 5651 : 5619 ) second , , ... . .
5583 *0 ( 5619 : 5567 ) " third " ,. .
5537-0 ( 5557:5320 ) 1 Second green hand , first bright line ... 5163 *0 ( 5165 ) second " ... .
5126-5 ( 5165 : 5065 ) brilliant .
I First blue band , first bright line .
4733 '5 ( 4879 ) " second , , ... ... .
4711 " 5 ( 4701 ) I Second blue band , first bright line ... . .
4604-5 ( 4629 : 4594 ) I Third blue band ( first order ) ... ... 4314-0 ( 4333 : 4300 ) | Fourth blue band ( second order ) ... .
4213 -5 ( 4251 : 4201 ) || Fifth blue band ( first order ) , about ... .
3878 ( 3904 : 3835 ) [ The red pair of argon lines were faintly visible in the spectrum , r : The density of this gas was determined with the following # June 16th .
After fractionation of the neon , the density of the lightest sample md decreased to 13*7 .
Prof. A. Dendy .
results :\#151 ; A globe of 32"35 c.c. capacity , filled at a pressure if 765-0 mm. , and at the temperature 17-43 ' , weighed 0-05442 The density is therefore 19"87 .
A second determination , made afir sparking , gave no different result .
This density does not sensiy differ from that of argon .
Thinking that the gas might possibly prove to be diatomic e proceeded to determine the ratio of specific heats :\#151 ; Wave-length of sound in air ... ... .
34-18 \#187 ; n gas ... ... ... ... ... 31-68 Ratio for air ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1-408 " gas ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1-660 The gas is therefore monatomic .
Inasmuch as this gas differs very markedly from argon in b spectrum , and in its behaviour at low temperatures , it must V regarded as a distinct elementary substance , and we therefore pr pose for it the name " metargon .
" It would appear to hold tl position towards argon that nickel does to cobalt , having approi mately the same atomic weight , yet different properties .
It must have been observed that krypton does not appear durii the investigation of the higher-boiling fraction of argon .
This probably due to two causes .
In the first place , in order to prepare i the manipulation of a volume of air of no less than 60,000 times tl volume of the impure sample which we obtained was required ; and i the second place , while metargon is a solid at the temperature of boilii air , krypton is probably a liquid , and more volatile at that temperatur It may also be noted that the air from which krypton has bee obtained had been filtered , and so freed from metargon .
A fu account of the spectra of those gases will be published in doe courf by Mr. E. C. 0 .
Baly .
" Summary of the principal Results obtained in a Study of th Development of the Tuatara ( )."JB ; Arthur Dendy , D.Sc .
, Professor of Biology in the Canter bury College , University of New Zealand .
Communicate !
by Professor G. B. Howes , P.R.S. Received June 15 , -Read June 16 , 1898 .
Thanks to the most generous and freely rendered services of Mr P. Henaghan , Principal Keeper of the Lighthouse on Stephen 's Island in Cook Straits , I have lately obtained a very perfect series a Tuatara embryos , ranging in age from just before the appearance ol the blastopore to about the time of hatching .
I have classified these embryos in sixteen stages , and propose shortly to publish a general

