330 Prof. Karl Pearson .
January 23 , 1902 .
ir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. Arthur John Evans , Captain Henry B. Jackson , and Professor Charles J. Martin were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
XI.-*\#187 ; On the Influence of Natural Selection on the Variability and Correlation of Organs .
" By Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. II .
" On the Correlation of Intellectual Ability with the Size and Shape of the Head .
( Preliminary Notice .
) " By Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. III .
" On the Mechanism of the so-called ' Peripheral Reflex Secretion ' of the Pancreas .
( Preliminary Communication .
) " By Dr. IjH M. Bayliss and Dr. E. H. Starling , F.R.S. IV .
" A Short Description of the Culicidse of India , with Descriptions of New Species of Anopheles .
" By F. V. Theobald .
Com* municated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , F.R.S. V. " The Affinity of Tmesipteris with the Sphenophyllales .
" By Professor A. P. W. Thomas .
Communicated by Professor Howes , F.R.S. VI .
" On the Excretory Organs of Amphioxus .
" By E. S. Goodrich .
Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , F.R.S. \#171 ; Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
XI.\#151 ; On the Influence of Natural Selection on the Variability and Correlation of Organs .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S| University College , London .
Received December 20 , 1901 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1902 .
' ( Abstract .
) The influence of directed\#151 ; natural or artificial\#151 ; selection on tfl characters of a race is one which it is fundamental for the purposes of evolution to appreciate quantitatively .
I have already shown in an Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
331 earlier memoir of this series the effect of random selection , or what it is better to term random sampling , on the characters of a population .
Isolation of a few individuals who form a random sample may produce very sensible modifications of race characters , but it is to directed selection that we must look for changes on the largest scale .
The subject is a very broad and complex one\#151 ; no less than the total effect upon a population containing individuals at all ages of a selective death-rate applied for a long period and a function not only of the organs of each individual , but of the relationship of these organs to each other , and of the stage of growth of the individual .
In its complete form the problem presents very considerable difficulties ; but if we ' confine our attention to one class of the population , namely , individuals in the same stage of growth , we are able to trace fairly well the effect upon such a class of selection , however complex may be the relation between the organic characters and the death-rate .
Thus we can measure the death-rate which would convert one race into a second by a cataclysmal action on the mean standard deviations and correlations of p out of n possible organs in mature individuals .
New complexities arise if the individuals are reproducing themselves during the process of selection , which is then assumed to be continuous and not sudden .
\#166 ; At this point a very definite distinction is reached , namely , that between directly and indirectly selected organs .
It may be said that , although it is possible for the recruiting sergeant to select stature , and ill so doing differentiate the arm-length of his troop from that of the general population , yet that in natural selection we are given only the modified organs , and so we cannot tell which of them have been directly and which indirectly selected .
Both are changed ; how discover which was the source of the change 1 The answer is : In the same manner as we could distinguish between two recruiting sergeants , one of whom selected his troop from the general population by stature , and the other by cubit ; in either case the stature and cubit would be both modified , but the mathematical theory of regression would enable us to distinguish between the methods of operating of the two men , and even between them and one who selected by both stature and cubit at once .
The mathematical theory as developed in this paper shows us that , although the whole complex of characters may have been changed , still , if direct selection have only occurred in p out of n possible cases , there will be certain of the partial regression coefficients which remain unmodified and which will theoretically enable us to distinguish among the whole group of differentiated organs , between those directly selected and those modified only because they happen to be correlated with the directly selected organs .
Thus the distinction becomes one of singular importance , for though the selection of a few organs modifies the means , variabilities and correlations , possibly of the whole 332 Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
complex of characters , certain functions of those quantities remain constant , and such constants ought to be discoverable , at any rate in theory , and should serve as the criterion of a common origin , when we deal with local races as having been subjected only to a selection directly differentiating a comparatively few characters .
In this memoir the analysis is confined to the case of normal frequency , but most of the chief results are true for all cases of regression .
The effects of selection are illustrated in a very considerable variety of cases , especially the influence of selection on the coefficients of heredity is fairly fully dealt with .
Tables are given for the simpler cases to enable the biologist at once to appreciate the influence of selection , not only on the size and variability of organs , btit on their correlations .
If selection has changed a race from a condition A to a condition B , it becomes of much interest to determine the nature of the selective death-rate by which the process has been carried on , and it is found that this death-rate as represented in the surface of survival-rates enables us to distinguish two kinds of selection , termed in the memoir positive and negative selection .
In the first case a race is modified , because the nearer its members are to having their organs with a certain system of values , the better fitted they are to survive ; in the second case the nearer the individuals are to this system the less fitted they are to survive .
There will usually be in this second case , not a single system , but an indefinite number of systems which would equally well fit individuals to survive ; in the first case , on the other hand , there are an indefinite number of systems which equally unfit their owners for surviving .
This distinction seems of considerable interest .
For example , to select from the French race a race in femur and humerus like the Aino , we should have to proceed by a positive selection ; hut to select from the Aino a race like the French , we should have to proceed by a negative selection .
To get 1000 Aino we should have to select for these two organs alone out of some 6,000,000 Frenchmen , but to get 1000 Frenchmen from the Aino we must select from about a billion of the latter .
Thus we are to some extent able to appreciate the stringency of the selection , which even lasting through long ages , and introducing continuous reproduction , would fie needful to enable us to pass in the case of only two organs from one race to the other .
Another point brought out by the surface of survival-rates is the fact that the fittest to survive are usually not the most frequent survivors .
It will be seen that the memoir opens up a novel field of investigation , but , one so wide that the theory of it must be limited by close contact with what is needful for the purposes of evolution .
We want measurements on the local races of animals to guide us ; at present we Correlation of Intellect with Size and Shape of Head .
333 know scarcely in any one case , whether differentiation has taken place by direct selection of few or of many organs .
When once such measurements are forthcoming we shall have firmer ground to go upon , and the processes of the present memoir seem to suggest how in the future we shall be able to link together quantitatively local races , and possibly at a more remote date obtain quantitative conceptions of the stages of evolutionary descent itself .
" On the Correlation of Intellectual Ability with the Size and Shape of the Head .
( Preliminary Notice .
) " Drawn up by Karl Pearson , E.RS .
, University College , London .
Received January 8 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1902 .
( A New Year 's Gfreeting to Francis Galton , 1902 .
) \#166 ; ( 1 .
) The collection and reduction of the material on which this preliminary notice is based were due to co-operative labour .
Our aim was to ascertain which , if any , physical characters are sensibly correlated with intellectual ability .
With this end in view we obtained leave from the Cambridge Anthropometric Committee to freely use their valuable series of measurements on Cambridge undergraduates .
Our object was to discover whether these measurements had any relationship to the character of the degrees afterwards obtained by the measured .
In order to do this it was necessary to copy the names of the persons measured , and ascertain what was the nature of the degrees ultimately obtained by them .
The work of copying the names and colleges of the measured was first undertaken by Miss Mildred E. Barwell , of Girton College , and on her leaving Cambridge was continued and completed by Miss M. Beeton , of the same college .
Miss Beeton prepared cards giving the name , college , and chief physical measurements of upwards of a thousand Cambridge undergraduates .
This work was very laborious , and considerably increased by the number of duplicates which had to be discarded.* The next stage was to get the subject , place , and character of the degree ultimately taken by the measured placed upon the cards .
The labour of tracing ^ each individual in the publications of the University would have been 1 # There seems to have been a desire on the part of some of the measured to test the accuracy of the measurer by repeating the process as often as possible , and subjecting him to various artifices .
One senior wrangler was measured no less than five times !
Considering that the measurer had not the means of a prison warder for controlling his subject , he appears to have managed fairly well .
When the duplicates were hopelessly irreconcilable\#151 ; generally in those characters depending upon the agency of the subject\#151 ; they were all rejected .
In other cases where the differences were slight , the first measurements were taken as representative , and \#166 ; the later cards thrown out .

