268 Prof. Williamson on the Organization of the [ Jan. 26 , composed of a single mineral species varying in colour , is proved by the analytical results given in this memoir .
It has been found to be a bronzite of the formula ( Mg^ Fe^ ) Si 03 , and in association with it there occurs some chromite in distinct crystals .
Rammelsberg has also recently published the results of an examination of this meteorite ( Pogg .
Annalen , vol. cxlii .
p. 275 ) , and finds in it a bronzite associated with 12 per cent , of olivine .
It is probable that the meteorite varies in its composition in different parts , and that Prof. Rammelsberg analyzed that portion where an olivinous ingredient was in appreciable preponderance .
The mottled kind was treated with hydrogen chloride in the cold , and subsequently with potash , and again with hydrogen sulphate and potash , but in each case it was noticed that the action of the acid was confined to that of a solvent .
A little meteoric iron was dissolved , but no appreciable amount of olivine was found in the portion examined in the Laboratory at the British Museum .
II .
" On the Organization of the Catamites of the Coal-measures .
" By W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural History in Owens College , Manchester .
Received November 11,1870 .
( Abstract .
) Ever since M. Brongniart established his genus there has prevailed widely a belief that two classes of objects had previously been included under the name of Catamites\#151 ; the one a thin-walled Equise-taceous plant , the Catamites proper , and the other a hard-wooded Gymno-spermous Exogen , known as Calamodendron .
This distinction the author rejects as having no existence , the thick- and thin-walled examples having precisely the same typical structure .
This consists of a central pith , surrounded by a woody zone , containing a circle of woody wedges , and enclosed within a bark of cellular parenchyma .
The Pith has been solid in the first instance , but very soon became fistular , except at the nodes , at each one of which a thin diaphragm of parenchyma extended right across the medullary cavity .
Eventually the pith underwent a complete absorption , thus enlarging the fistular interior until it became coextensive with the inner surface of the ligneous zone .
The Woody Zone.\#151 ; This commenced in very young states by the formation of a circle of canals stretching longitudinally from one node to the adjoining one .
Externally to , but in contact with , these canals a few barred or reticulated vessels were found ; successive additions to these were made in lines radiating from within outwards ; hence each wedge consisted of a series of radiating laminse , separated by medullary rays , having a peculiar mural structure .
At their commencement these wedges were separated by wide cellular areas , running continuously from node to node ; 1871 .
] Calamites of the .
as the woody tissues increased exogenously , these cellular tracts also extended outwards .
Radial longitudinal sections exhibited in these the same mural tissue that occurs in the woody wedges .
Hence the author gives to the former the name of primary medullary rays , and to the latter that of secondary ones .
The structure of the medullary and ligneous zones is compared with that of the stem of a true Exogen of the first year , of which transitional form Calamites may be regarded as a permanent representative .
Tangential sections of this woody zone exhibit parallel bands of alternating vascular and cellular tissue , running from node to node .
At the latter points each vascular band dichotomizes , its divergent halves meeting corresponding ones from contiguous wedges , and each two unite to form one of the corresponding bands or wedges of the next adjoining internode .
The Bark , hitherto undescribed , consists of a thick layer of cellular parenchyma , undivided into separate laminae , and not exhibiting any special differentiation of parts .
This structure exhibits no signs of external ridges or furrows , being apparently smooth .
The stem was enlarged at each node , but the swelling was less due to any increased thickness of the bark at these points , than to an expansion of the woody layer at these points , both externally and internally .
This was the result of the intercalation of numerous short vessels , which arched across each node , their concavities being directed inwards , and which constituted the portion of the woody zone that encroached upon the constricted pith at these nodes .
Several modifications of the above type have been met with , most of which may have had a specific value .
In one form no canals exist at the inner angles of the woody wedges ; in another* laminse , like those of the woody wedges , are developed in the more external portions of the primary medullary rays , those occupying the centre of each ray being the most external and latest formed .
The primary ray is thus transformed into a series of secondary ones .
In another type the vascular laminse of each woody wedge are few in number , and the component vessels are the same ; but the latter are remarkable for their large size .
In a fourth variety , the exterior of the woody zone has been almost smooth , instead of exhibiting the usual ridges and furrows : this variety is also remarkable for the large size of its medullary cells , compared with that of the cells and vessels of the woody zone .
But the most curious modification is seen in a plant previously described by the author under the name of Calam in which round or oblong canals are given off from the medullary cavity , and pass horizontally through each primary medullary ray of the woody zone to the bark .
These , being arranged in regular verticils below each node , are designated the infranodal canals .
The verticils of small round or oblong scars , seen at one extremity of the internodes of some Calamites , are the results of this peculiar organization .
In one species of this Calamopitus , instead of the longitudinal canals of the woody wedges terminating at the nodes , they 270 On the Catamites of the Coal-measures .
[ Jan. 26 , bifurcate , like the wedges with which they are associated , and are continuously prolonged from internode to internode .
The ordinary structureless fossils found in shales and sandstones receive a definite interpretation from the specimens described .
The fistular medullary cavities due in the first instance , not to decay of the tissues , but to the rapid growth of the stem , became further enlarged by the entire absorption of the true pith , which commenced after the latter had fulfilled its purpose in the origination of the woody wedges .
This process terminated at an undulating line of arrested absorption , the convexities of which projected outwards , opposite the primary medullary rays , and inwards , opposite the woody wedges ; and the inorganic cast of the cavity thus formed by a physiological action constitutes the Catamites commonly seen in collections .
Hence they are not , like the Sternbergiae , casts of a cavity within a true pith , but their form represents that of the exterior of the medullary tissue .
The ridges and furrows of these internal casts are not identical in position with the similar undulations of the exterior of the woody zone , but alternate with them ; so that the ligneous cylinder projects both externally and internally where the woody wedges are located , and contracts , in like manner , at the intermediate points opposite to the primary medullary rays .
The thin carbonaceous film which frequently invests these casts is the residue of the altered elements of the woody zone , and possibly also of the bark , which latter has been very liable to become detached from the former .
The surface-markings of this carbonaceous film have usually no structural significance , being merely occasioned by the impression of the hardened casts which they invest .
Two kinds of branches are given off by , \#151 ; the one subterranean , springing from peculiarly formed rhizomes , and the other aerial , attached to the upright unbranched stems .
The former of these are of comparatively large size , the nodes from which they have been detached being marked by large concave lenticular scars as phragmata- .
These branches appear to have been given off from central rhizomes in accordance with a regular phyllotaxis , but which varied in different species .
The aerial branches , on the other hand , were merely slender appendages to a virtually unbranched stem ; they were arranged in verticils round the nodes , in variable numbers .
Each branch sprang from the interior of one of the woody wedges , the two halves of which were forced asunder to admit the base of the appendage , and from which its constituent vessels were derived .
The branch , deprived of its bark , never appears to have had a diameter equal that of two of the woody wedges , and the rarity of their occurrence attached to the stem seems to indicate that they were deciduous .
The bark investing them is not yet known , and the exact nature of the foliage which they bore is also uncertain , owing to discordant testimony respecting it ; but there appears no reason for doubting that some of the verticillate Asterophyllites or Annularise represent it , though there is uncertainty respecting the actual forms to be identified with Catamites .
The roots 1871 .
] Sir W. Thomson on Approach caused by Vibration .
271 were given off from the lower part of each internode , but above the node , and were apparently epidermal .
There is also considerable doubt respecting the fructification of .
Some of the Volkmanniae have evidently belonged to this group ; but only one example retaining its minute organization has yet been found in which the structure of the central axes corresponded with that of the Catamites .
The relationship to Catamites of the fruits figured by Binney , under the name of Calamodendron commune , which are identical with the Volkmannia Binneyi of Carruthers , is more than doubtful , because of the anomalous structure of their central axes .
After a careful comparison of the organization of Catamites with that of the recent Equisetaceae , the author prefers constituting the former an independent order , distinct from , though allied to , the Equisetums , under the name of Calamitacece , and characterized by cryptogamic fructification and verticillate foliage , associated with an exogenous axis .
The latter feature probably involved the existence of something resembling a cambium layer , furnishing the material for the new tissues .
It is further proposed to divide these plants into two generic groups , viz. Catamites and Calamopitus ; the former to comprehend those unprovided with infranodal canals , and the latter those which possess them .
The existing specific distinctions appear to have little or no scientific value .
III .
" On Approach caused by Vibration .
" A Letter from Prof. Sir W. Thomson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. to Prof. Frederick Guthrie , B.A. Communicated by Sir W. Thomson .
Received November 17 , 1870 .
Dear Sir , \#151 ; I have to-day received the * Proceedings of the Royal Society* containing your paper " On Approach caused by Vibration , " which I have read with great interest .
The experiments you describe constitute very beautiful illustrations of the established theorem for fluid pressure in abstract hydro-kinetics , with which I have been much occupied in mathematical investigations connected with vortex-motion .
According to this theorem , the average pressure at any point of an incompressible frictionless fluid originally at rest , but set in motion and kept in motion by solids moving to and fro , or whirling round in any manner , through a finite space of it , is equal to a constant diminished by the product of the density into half the square of the velocity .
This immediately explains the attractions demonstrated in your experiments ; for in each case the average of square of velocity is greater on the side of the card nearest the tuning-fork than on the remote side .
Hence obviously the card must be attracted by the fork as you have found it to be ; but it is not so easy at first sight to perceive that the average of the square of the velocity must be greater on the surfaces of the tuning-fork next to the

