A paper was also read , entitled , " On the Secretion and Uses of the Bile .
" Bv B. Phillips , Esq. Communicated by W. G. Maton , M.D. V.P.R.S.* The object of the author of this paper is to establish the three following propositions ; viz. 1 ? .
That the principles of the bile pre-exist in the blood , and that the function of the liver is to separate from the blood a certain proportion of this material .
2 ? .
That bile may be secreted as well from arterial as from venous blood .
3 ? .
That chyle may be formed in the absence of bile .
In support of the first proposition the author adduces the analogy of other secretions , the suppression of which is followed by the appearance in the blood of the peculiar animal product which characterizes that secretion , as has been proved in the case of the urine by Prevost and Dumas , and afterwards by Vauquelin , Serullas , andMagendie .
The author has confirmed the conclusion to which these physiologists have arrived , by some experiments of his own , in which , instead of extirpating the kidneys , he contented himself with tying the venal vessels .
He reiates two cases in which the vena portae and hepatic artery were tied , and bile was found both in the urine and the blood .
The author , after quoting several authotities in support of his second proposition , that the liver can secrete bile , although the vena portae be obstructed , reiates two experiments which he made on dogs , by tying the vena portae at the part before it arrives at the transverse fissure of the liver : in both cases that organ continued to secrete bile , though the quantity was small .
In another dog , he tied the hepatic artery , with the effect of producing fatal peritonitis , but without any apparent change in the biliary secretion .
The arguments adduced by the author in favour of the opinion that chyle may be formed when no bile is present in the intestine , are derived from the accounts given by various authors of cases in which the ductus communis had been rendered impervious by the pressure of neighbouring tumours .
In confirmation of this result , he made experiments on four dogs , and found chyle in the thoracic duct after he had tied the ductus communis close to the duodenum .
The author concludes , from these and other facts , that the secretion of bile is intended to serve some other purpose than that of contributing to the formation of chyle .

