On Two New Compounds of Chlorine and Carbon , and on a New Compound of Iodine , Carbon , and Hydrogen .
By Mr. Faraday , Chemical Assistant in the Royal Institution .
Communicated by W. T. Brand ,.Esq .
Sec. R.S. and Prof. Chem. R.I. Read December 21 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 47 .
] After some general observations respecting the action of chlorine upon compounds containing carbon , and more especially upon carburetted hydrogen gas , Mr. Faraday details the processes by which he succeeded in obtaining two binary compounds of carbon and chlorine ; the first , which he calls perchloride of carbon , was formed by exposing the triple compound of carbon , hydrogen , and chlorine , with excess of chlorine , to the agency of the direct solar rays ; muriatic acid was formed , and a white crystalline compound at the same time generated .
The author next describes the method of purifying this compound , and details its properties , which are briefly these:-it forms crystals , which appear to result from a primitive octahedron ; it does not conduct electricity ; it is slowly volatile , like camphor , at common temperatures , fusing at 3200 , and boiling at 360 ' .
It is not easily combustible ; but when retained in the flame of the lamp , produces a red flame , with the formation of muriatic acid ; it is insoluble in water , and readily soluble in alcohol , ether , and oils ; and nearly insoluble in acids .
When heated with several metallic peroxides it is decomposed with the production of carbonic acid , and a metallic perchloride .
The author describes several experiments made with a view to ascertain the proportions in which the carbon and chlorine exist in this compound , from which it appears , that as one volume of olefiant gas requires five volumes of chlorine for its conversion into muriatic acid and this new chloride , and as four volumes of muriatic acid are formed , so three volumes of chlorine must unite to two of carbon to form the solid chloride .
When this perchloride is passed through a red hot tube chlorine is evolved , and a liquid compound of carbon and chlorine is obtained , which assumes the form of a vapour at 170 ?
, and which , like the former , is insoluble in water , but soluble in alcohol and ether , and burns with the same phenomena as the solid chloride .
The results of the author 's analytical experiments upon this fluid compound , induce him to regard it as consisting of one proportion of each of its elements .
By exposing the vapour of iodine and olefiant gas to the sun 's rays , Mr. Faraday obtained a colourless crystalline compound , difficultly combustible , but decomposable at a high temperature , of a sweet taste and aromatic odour , and composed of iodine , carbon , and hydrogen .
He has not yet succeeded in forming a binary compound of carbon and iodine , though his experiments leave little doubt of the existence of such a compound , and of the possibility of forming it when aided by a bright sunshine .

