]\gt ; Energy Distribution Scattered R. 29 time the negative electron must be free from molecules of the gas .
When increases , becomes smaller still , but as the velocities have not yet been determined accurately higher values of , further investigation on these lines must be postponed .
In order that the equations of diffusion should hold in these cases , it is necessary that the velocity of the ion in the direction of the electromotive force should be small compared with the velocity of agitation .
It is easy show that this condition holds .
Since the velocity of agitation of a molecule of at centigrade is centimetres per second , the velocity of particles of an average mass 1/ 43 of that of the molecules of would be , and while under the electric force their velocity of agltation would be , which is large compared with the velocity , 1845 centimetres per second , in the direction of the lelectric force .
On the Energy and Distribution of Scattered Rontgen Radiation .
By J. A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received December 13 , 1910 , \mdash ; Read January 26 , 1911 .
) Introduction .
It has been shown by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson that it is possible , on certain assumptions , to calculate the number of electrons in an atom of any element from considerations of the scattering undergone by a rapidly moving electl'ified particle in the substance .
In a paper recently read before this Society*I was able , by means of experiments there described , to show that the scattering of homogeneous -rays by thin sheets of different substances did follow very closely the laws predicted by the theory , and to calculate the number of electrons contained in the atoms of some half dozen different elements .
It was found that , in every case , the number of electrons per atom was equal to about three times the atomic weight .
Although the agreement between theory and experiment was very close , it seemed desirable to collect as much independent evidence as possible upon such a point .
Some years ago Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson showed that in the phenomenon of the scattering of a beam of Rontgen rays we have another possible method of attacking the problem .
* Roy .
Soc. Proc 1910 , , vol. 84 , p. 226 .
'Conduction through Gases , ' 1906 , p. 321 .
Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the Energy and [ Dec. 13 , Assuming that the scattered Rontgen radiation is emitted by the electrons in the atoms traversed by the primary rays executing forced vibrations in the period of the incident rays , it can easily be shown that the energy radiated per electron is equal to where is the energy in the primary pulse , and and the charge and mass of the electron .
The total energy radiated by a given mass of substance is therefore equal to where is the total number of electrons in the given mass .
This equation gives us an independent method of arriving at the number of electrons in the atom .
So far as I am aware , no determinations of the energy of scattered Rontgen radiation have been made since the early experiments of Barkla*on the secondary radiation from gases .
He compared the ionisation in two similar electroscopes , one placed in the path of the primary rays , the other in a direction at right angles to it .
He thus compared the energy of the secondary rays in a given fixed direction with that of the incident beam .
To deduce the total secondary radiation he assumed a law of distribution deduced from the simple theory described above .
As no experimental proof of this law of distribution had been iven , and in view of the new which has been thrown upon the whole subject since these early experiments were performed , it was thought .
desirable that a fresh determination of the energy of the scattered Rontgen radiation should be made .
It was not found feasible to measure immediately the whole of the rays .
scattered by a given radiator .
The experiment therefore resolved itself into .
two parts : ( 1 ) The comparison of the intensity of the scattered radiation from a given radiator in a fixed plane ( namely , that at right angles to the primary beam ) .
( 2 ) The determination of the distribution of the scattered radiation around the radiator .
The following sections of this paper describe the methods employed and the results obtained .
* Barkla , ' Phil. Mag 1904 , [ 6 ] , vol. 7 , p. 643 .
1910 .
] Distnbution of Scattered Rontgen On the Energy of the Rontgen Radiation Scattered in a Plane at Right Angles to the Primary Beam .
The direct mechanical measurement of the energy of Rontgen radiation is practically impossible .
In order to compare the intensities of two given streams of Bontgen radiation , we must rely on their power either to affect a photographic plate or to ionise a gas .
Of the two methods , the latter is the more definite , and the less open to objection .
In fact , if the two beams have the same penetrating power , and pass through the ionisation chambers without striking any solid object , it seems reasonably certain that the amount of ionisation produced per unit length of path in the chamber will be simply ortional to the energy of beams .
If , however , the rays fall upon the electrodes and walls of the ionisation chamber , the bulk of the ionisation produced is due to the emission of corpuscular radiation from the substances struck .
The amount of this will depend upon the shape and material of the chamber , and the way in which the rays strike it .
Results with two different chambers will therefore not in general be strictly comparable .
This objection , however , does not apply if the same ionisation chamber is used to measure successively different quantities of radiation , providing all pass through the chamber in the same way .
As it was desirable , on account of possible variations in the -ray tube , to make simultaneous measurements of the primary and scattered radiations , and to eliminate as many sources of uncertainty as possible , it was decided to arrange matters so that neither the nor the secondary rays should impinge on any solid object in the vicinity of the ionisation chambers .
The effect to be measured was thus greatly reduced , but it was that this was more than compensated for by the increased certainty that the measurements of the two beams were really comparable .
The methods employed will be readily understood from fig. 1 , which represents a section of the apparatus .
The -ray tube supplying the rays is completely enclosed in a thick lead box , to eliminate any fear of stray radiations ; the leads from the coil were introduced through thick porcelain tubes .
A narrow pencil of rays , limited by a series of circular apertures passes.upwards through the lead tubes , so that no radiation can emerge into the secondary ionisation chamber except at the point , where a gap cm .
in length is left for the radiator .
On its way , the beam passes through the small primary ionisation chamber , fitted with two parallel aluminium electrodes , well out of the path of the rays .
The measuring electrode is provided with a guard ring in order to ensure a uniform field across the chamber .
32 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the and [ Dec. 13 , FIG. 1 .
The rest of the apparatus is symmetrical about the line of the primary beam , which it completely surrounds like a belt .
MM and are two lead cylinders , 24 cm .
in diameter and cm .
apart , and serve to limit the secondary rays from to a fairly narrow sheet .
The secondary ionisation chamber is fitted with two parallel plate electrodes ; the measuring electrode being surrounded by guard lings , as in the case of the primary chamber P. Wires passing through earthed tubes , not shown in the diagram , connect the electrodes and to two Wilson electroscopes ; and are charged to saturation potentials from a cabinet of accumulators .
The radiator took the form of a hollow cone of aluminium foil , with a vertical angle of .
The primary rays thus met it everywhere at an angle of , and the secondary rays emerged at the same angle .
The scattered radiation from the air was not sufficient to measure with any accuracy .
As the chamber was large , there was a very appreciable spontaneous ionisation current across it .
To eliminate this , a cylindrical ionisation chamber , charged to the opposite potential , was connected to the same .electroscope .
The effective volume of this compensator could be varied by 1910 .
] ibution of ttered Rontgen Ra , means of an earthed tube sliding over the inner electrode .
By varying the length of the electrode exposed , the two cm.rents could be made to each other .
In making the measurements , readings were taken wibh the rays passing , but with no radiator at , and then with the radiator in position .
The difference gave the effect due to the radiator alone .
The effect in the absence of the radiator was always very small .
By means of a key , not shown in the , the electrode could be directly connected to the electrode of the chamber .
In this way the capacities of the two systems could be directly compared .
To compare the relative amounts of energy in the primary and secondary beams , we may proceed as follows:\mdash ; Let be the energy per unit volume in the primary beam , its cross-section , and the effective length of path in the ionisation chamber ; that is to say , the length of path in that portion of the gas of which the ionisation is measured .
The volume of gas ionised is thus , , and the rate of ion isation is therefore , where is a constant endino on .
the nature of the gas and the hardness of the rays .
Similarly , for the secondary beam , we have the rate of ionisation equal to , where .
is the same factor as before , since the secondary rays are of the same hardness as the primary .
If is the number of ions of one sign produced in a time , the charge conveyed to the electrode in that time is equal to , where is the on an electron .
If the capacity of the electrode is , and the potential acquired in the time is equal to , we have , thus the rate of production of OIlS Equating these expressions , we have so that Since for a limited beam energy crossing any cross-section of the beam in a given time is constant , is constant for a given beam of The following are the experimental values:\mdash ; cm .
, cm .
, VOL. LXXXV.\mdash ; A. Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the Energy [ Dec. 13 , Rate of charging up of the two systems in volts per minute:\mdash ; 0.074 0.070 11.O Mean . . .
Thus The thickness of the aluminium.radiator measured the path of the primary rays was mm. The angle of emergence of the secondary beam was on each side of a plane through the radiator perpendicular to the primary beam .
The value given above has still to be corrected for the absorption of the primary and secondary rays in the radiator itself .
Although conical radiator was quite symmetrical about the primary beam , the equations obtained for the absorption in the radiator were not capable of explicit evaluation .
The radiator was purposely made as thin as possible , in order to make the correction as small as possible .
The following method was adopted for its determination : Consider the cross-section of the cone made by any plane perpendicular to its axis , and therefore to the primary beam .
This cross-section will take the form of a ring , bounded by two concentric circles , whose distance apart is equal to , where is the thickness of the foil of which the cone is made .
Consider any point in this ring whose distance from the outer circle is .
Then the distance traversed by the primary rays in the cone in reaching is also , since the cone is inclined to both primary and secondary ra at an angle of .
The intensity of the primary rays at is therefore , where is the coefficient of absorption of the rays .
For the rays used in these experiments , was equal to cm .
Consider now the secondary rays from in the plane of cross-section .
When is very small compared to the radius of either bounding circle , the ordinate through at angles to the radius becomes infinitely great compared to .
In ths limit , therefore , the absorption is the same as if the radiator consisted of two parallel plates perpendiou ] are to the radius through P. In practice the absorption must always be less thau this limiting value .
If is the depth of the point below the surface of one of the plates , the path of a ray inclined at an angle to the normal is 1910 .
] Distribution of Scattered Rontge Radiation .
If the initial intensity of radiation from between the directions and is I , the emergent intensity is I .
The total emergent radiation is therefore I for the rays emerging on the side nearest For those which pass through both plates the path is , and the emergent radiation is therefore .
I have not been able to evaluate these rals explicitly .
They lend themselves , however , quite readily to evaluation by graphical methods .
By actually plotting the graphs of against for different values of from to cm , , and the areas of the curves so obtained , a series of values were found for the absorption of the secondary rays , different depths in plate .
It has been shown that the absorption of the primary rays re[ching a point at a depth in the radiator is Multiplying each of the values for the absorption of the secondary rays by the corresponding values of , we obtain , by a final raphical integration , the whole absorption of the rays in the material .
It was foumd to be by the equation This represents the maximum absorption when theadius of the cross section is compared with the thickness of the foil .
Turning now to the apex of the cone , where the cross-section is a circle of radius , we can , by pursuing a similar course of operations , find the absorption for the cross- section of this shape .
In this way it was found that the absorption for case was given by This represents the minimum absorption .
The actual value mtlst lie between these two .
The values are not very far .
We shall not commit any serious error if we take the true absorption in the radiator as iven by I is the radiation as measured by the secondary chamber .
To obtain the true value , in the absence of any sorPtion in the radiator , we must multiply our result by , that is by .
Making this correction , we get finally Considel.ing the beams at the point where their cross-section is unity , we have Mr. J. A. Crowther .
the Energy [ Dec. 13 , On the of the Scattered Radiation rov , nd the Radiator .
In order to measure the distribution of the rays round the radiator it was necessary to design an ionisation chamber which could rapidly and accurately be brought to any desired position with respect to the primary beam and the ladiator .
At the same time , as a Wilson electroscope is very sensitive to slight changes of level , and other variations in external conditions , it was necessary , if accurate measurements were to be made , that the electroscope itself should remain fixed on a firm basis .
The apparatus finally designed for the experiment is shown in FIG. 2 .
The ionisation chamber used to measure the emergent scattered radiation is mounted upon the circumfelence of a large wheel , which can be rotated about a fixed vertical axle A. The ionisation chamber is cylindrical in shape , the cylinder being placed with its axis passing normally through the axis of rotation of the wheel .
A window , closed with thin aluminium foil , serves to admit a cone of the secondary rays of fixed angle into the ionisation chamber .
A lead plate , pierced with a suitable aperture to allow of the passacre of the primary beam , is fixed to , and serves to support the radiator B. In this way , by simpJy turning the wheel , the secondary chamber can be made to take up any position with respect to the radiator .
position of can be read off on a circular scale fixed to , and read by a pointer attached to the fixed axle A. As the amount of scattered radiation is very small , the ionisation 1910 .
] of chamber was made fairly , and in order to obtain saturation with a reasonably small voltage a system of plane parallel electrodes of aluminium leaf mounted on wire rings was introduced , as shown in the figure , instead of the more usual , but unsatisfactory , tral wire electrode .
In order to make connection between the moving electrode and the fixed electroscope , the key was mounted so that the brass rod came directly above the axis of rotation of the wheel D. The distance from to thus remains constant when wheel is rotated , and the two can be joined together by a thin copper wire , shielded in an earthed metal tube in the usual way .
The focus tube X is enclosed as before in a lead ) .
A system of lead stops , limits the emergent ra .
is so that the cross-section of the beam at is 3 cm .
in diameter .
This was verified by placing a fluorescent screen at , when it was found that the beam passed the aperture and was quite well defined .
The primary beaul passes between two ] electrodes , the ionisation between which can be measured in usual way and serves to standardise the primary beam .
In the measurements readings were made , as before , with and without the radiator in position .
The difference gay the true effect due to the radiator alone .
Owing to the scattering of the rays in the there was always a small appreciable effect even when the radiator was not present ; but this was eliminated by the method of measurement described .
The radiator took the form of a sheet of the substance under experiment , the thickness being kept as small as possible , in order that the absorption of the rays in the radiator should be small .
The absorption of the rays used by the substance was , however , measured , and a correction calculated for position of the ionisation chamber .
The following table contains a typical set of ions for an aluminium radiator .
The first column of figures gives the angle made by the axis of with the direction of the primary beam .
R.H. and L.H. nify that the nber is to the right or left hand , looking along the direction of the primary beam : " " returned\ldquo ; denotes that the radiation is measured on the side of the radiator facing the incident " " transmitted\ldquo ; that it is measured on the further side .
The second and third columns the ionisation with and without the radiator , in arbitrary units , corrected for variations in the of the primary beam .
fourth column is the differexlce of the second and third and gives the effect due to the radiator alone .
The fifth column gives bhe correcting factor for the absorption of primary and secondary rays in the radiator .
This has been calculated as follows :Consider a small volume of Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the Energy and [ Dec. 13 , unit area and thickness situated at a distance from the front face of the radiator , which is struck normally by the primary beam .
If is the initial intensity of the primary beam , the intensity on reaching the small volume is equal to , where is the coefficient of absorption of the rays .
Suppose now that the fraction of this ensrgy is scattered in a cone of small angle about the angle with thenormal .
The path of these rays before emerging from the face of the radiator for the returned radiation is and for the forward radiation , where is the thickness of the radiator .
The energy of radiation from a small volume at depth is thus in a return direction , and in a forward direction:\mdash ; The whole intensity in the direction is thus given by and The intensity in the same directions in the absence of any absorption is simply and respectively .
Evaluating the integrals , we find if represent the rected and the measured values of the intensity in the direction for the returned radiation , and for the transmitted radiation .
For the rays used was cm .
1910 .
] Distribution of Scattered ntgen The values of these expressions for the different values of are the correction factors given in the table in column 5 .
The sixth column gives the values of , the intensity of the scattered radiation in the direction ; that is to , the energy of the scattered radiation per unit area at an with the primary beam .
According to the simple theory of scattering outlined above , the distribution of the scattered radiation should be symmetrical both about the direction of the primary beam , and about a plane perpendicular to this direction .
The intensity should be a minimum in this plane , and rise to a maximum 011 both sides of the radiator in the direction of incident beam .
The ratio of the maximum to the minimum intensities , assuming that the electrons are displaced in the plane of the wave-front , should be 2 to 1 .
The actual distribution obtained differed considerably from this .
Fig. 3 shows , raphically the actual distribution around a small radiator , the primary rays falling upon in the direction of the arrow .
Radii are drawn from ] , showing the angle of inclination of the scattered rays with the normal , and lengths are marked off along them proportional to the intensity of radiation at that inclination .
In this way we get a picture of the distribution of the rays about .
The same results are also shown as an ordinary graph in fig. 4 .
will be seen from fig. 3 that the scattered radiation is symmetrical about the incident beam , but not about the plane perpendicu ] to it , through the radiator .
It will be seen at once from both figures that ] the intensity of the scatterea1 radiations is a maximum both forward and backward along the line of the primary beam , and falls to a minimum in the plane perpendicular to this direction , the distribution about this plane is by no means symmetrical .
At any given inclination to the primary beam the In these experiments the bulb was placed so that the path of the cathode rays in the bulb was perpendicular to the plane of rotation of the ioniaation chamber .
If the path of the cathode rays is in the plane of rotation , there is always a slight reponderance of the scattered radiation on that side of the primary beam to which the cathode rays are directed .
This effect , which has been pointed out by several observers , is due to the partial polarisation of the primary rays .
It was in order to eliminate any error to thiS effect that the secondary chamber in the energy experiments already described was made to surround completely the primary beam .
40 .
J. A. Crowther .
On the Energy [ Dec. 13 , in the forward direction is always greater than that in the reverse direction , and this inequality becomes greater as the direction approaches more and more nearly to that of the primary beam .
The distribution of the retulned radiation agrees fairly well with that given by the le theory .
It was impossible to measure the returned radiation actually in the line of the primary beam .
By interpolation , however , it was found that the intensity in this ection was about .
The intensity at right angles to this was lound to be ; the ratio being .
It seems , therefore , that while the maximum in the forward direction is greater than is required by the theory , the maximum in the reverse direction is somewhat less .
The form of curve suggested that the preponderance in the forward direction might be due to some other form of radiation superposed upon the true scattering .
A considerable number of experiments have been made with a view to testin this point , but I have so far failed to obtain any evideuce that such is the case .
The distribution of the radiation does not seem to depend upon the thickness of the radiator , though it does to some extent upon the material , the eccentricity being rather less for paper than for aluminium .
There was no ) difference in the hardness of the 1910 .
] Distribution of Radiation .
rays returned , and those transmitted , the relative intensities in the two directions being unaltered when sufficient aluminium was placed in front of to cut down the radiation entering the ionisation chamber by more than one-half .
The effects cannot be due to a " " characteristic\ldquo ; radiation from the aluminium , as measurements on characteristic secondary have shown that it is distributed equally at all angles round the radiator .
* At present , therefore , we 1nust regard the whole of the radiation as purely scattered .
To obtain the whole energy of scattered radiation we may proceed as follows .
Let be the intensity of the radiation at any angle with the primary beam , so that the energy included in a hollow cone of and increment round the primary beam is equal to .
The area vept out by this hollow cone on a sphere of radius passing the window of the ionisation chamber is .
Now , if is the area of the window , supposed to be sufficiently small to be included in this belt , the intensity of the rays entering the ionisation chamber is equal to But is constant , being the area of the window , and .
is constant .
} can write therefore constant The values of are iven in the last column of the previous table .
The whole of the scattered radiation is equal to , that is to Similarly , the energy measured in the first part of the experiment is that included between angles of with the plane perpendicuIar to the primary beam , i.e. , , where We can integrate these quantities by a raphical method .
A curve is plotted between and .
The area of the whole curve gives the ) of , that is , of the whole scattered radiation .
The area included between the gives in a similar way the energy the angles .
Drawing the curve we find that the whole area is 2292 in arbitrary units ; the area between ordinates is 138 on the same scale .
* J. A. Crowther , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc November , 1910 .
Mr. J. A. Crowther .
the Energy [ Dec. 13 , The energy measured in the first experiment is thus 138/ 2292 , or of the whole scattered radiation .
On the Energy of Scattered Radiation the Number of Electrons in the Atom .
We are now in a position to form an estimate of the fraction of the energy of the primary Rontgen radiation scattered per unit mass of the radiator .
We have found that of the energy of the primary beam is radiated between the angles with the plane perpendicular to the primary beam by an aluminium radiator mm. or cm .
thick .
We have also seen that this energy represents of the whole scattered radiation .
The total energy of scattered radiation must therefore be or of the energy in the primary beam .
The density of aluminium is ; the mass per unit area of the radiator is therefore grammes per square centimetre .
For a radiator of unit mass square centimetre we should therefore have\mdash ; It must be remembered that as we have corrected our results for the absorption of the primary rays this number represents the rate at which the primary radiation is scattered .
Representing the scattering by the equation where and I are the intensities of the scattered and primary rays , and is the mass per unit area , the number represents the factor , which we may term the mass coefficient of scattering .
We have seen that the elementary theory of scattering does not entirely represent the actual distribution of the scattered radiation round the radiator .
It seems probable , however , that the theor*v is sufficiently near the truth to give us a fairly reliable estimate of the energy scattered .
Assuming that this is the case , we have per .
per sq .
cm .
, where is the total number of .
electrons .
Taking as e.m.u. ( Rutherford and Geiger ) and as e.m.u. ( Bucherer ) we have psr 1910 .
] Distribution of Scattered .
43 Now the mass of a hydrogen atom is utherford and Geiger ) ; the mass of an atom of aluminium is therefore or the number of atoms of aluminium per gramme is The number of electrons in this mass of aluminium as given by the is .
The number of electrons per atom of aluminium is therefore found to be \mdash ; or 85 .
The number of electrons per atom of aluminium obtained from the measurements on the scattering of homogeneous -rays is 83.* The agreement between the two results arrived at from entirely different points of view is very satisfactory .
It seems therefore that the estimate of the number of electrons in the atom as being three times the atomic weight is probably not far from the truth .
The distribution of the scattered Rontgen radiation round a radiator has been measuled .
The intensity of the scattered radiation reaches a maximum on sides of the radiator in the line of the primary beam , and falls to a minimum at right angles to this direction .
At any given inclination to the primary beam there is a preponderance of radiation in the forward direction , the ratio increasing as the direction of the beam is approilched .
The energy of the radiation scattered in a given direction has been compared with that in the primary beam .
From the result so obtained , and the known distribution of the radiation , the total radiation scattered by an aluminium radiator has been determined .
It has been shown that the value obtained leads to the same result for the number of electrons in the atom as that previously calculated by the author from his experiments on the scattering of homogeneous -rays .
In conclusion I once more to express my thanks to Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for his inspiration and advice during the course of these experiments .
* J. A. Crowt fier , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1910 , , vol. 84 , p. 239 .

