IV .
" On Muscular Action from ali electrical point of view .
" By CIHARLES BLAND RADCLIFFE , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Physicianl to the Westminster Hospital , &amp;c. Communicated by JAMES PAGET , Esq. Received February 6 , 1859 .
This Paper was read in part .
March 17 , 1859 .
Sir BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The reading of Dr. RADCLIFFE'S Paper , " On Muscular Action from an electrical point of view , " was resumed and concluded .
( Abstract .
) The author begins by observing , that the signs of electrical action in living muscle die out pari passu with the signs of irritability ; and , as with these latter signs , their last trace has disappeared before the occurrence of rigor mortis .
691 It would appear , also , ( in so far as electrical action is concerned ) khat there is a close agreement between ordinary muscular contraction and rigor mortis , for in ordinary muscular contraction , as Prof. Du Bois Reymontd has so well shown , there is a partial disappearance of electrical action .
Professor Matteucci , however , is doubtful as to this , and he maintains , on the contrary , that at this time the " 1 muscular current " is sometimes reversed , and sometimes increased in intensity without being reversed .
In his recent experiments Prof. Matteucci uses a galvanometer of which the ends are so arranged as to get rid of the disturbing influences of secondary polarity .
Instead of being of platinum immersed in a saturated solution of common salt , as in Prof. Du Bois Reymond 's arrangement , these ends are of amalgamated zinc immersed in saturated solution of neutral sulphate of zinc .
This arrangement , originally proposed by Dr. Jules Regnault , the author agrees with Prof. Matteucci in regarding as a great improvement upon that used by Prof. Du Bois Reymond ; for , says he , " not only is the disturbing influelnce of secondary polarity got rid of , but the entrance of currents into the coil of the galvanometer is greatly facilitated .
Of this I am satisfied after many comparative trials * ' " In the experiment in which Prof. Matteucci finds what he considers to be the proof of the reversal of the muscular current during contraction , he takes a prepared frog 's thigh with a long portion of nerve attached , and watches the changes of the muscular current 692 which is derived from two points of the uncut surface .
On laying the thigh upon the cushions which form the electrodes of the galvanometer , the needle diverges under the current of the relaxed muscle ; on producing colntraction by irritating the nerve with a feeble interrupted current , the needle immediately travels back and passes to the other side of zero .
The fact is unideniable , but , according to the author , the backward movement of the needle does not indicate , as Prof. Matteucci supposes , a reversal of the muscular current during contraction .
There is , it is true , no secondary polarity in the galvanometer to drive the lneedle back , as in the case where platinum electrodes are used ; but there may be a tendency to oscillate backwards , and the question is whether the mere movement of oscillation may not be sufficient to account for the phenomena .
What must be done , then , is to conmpare the rate at which the needle moves backward during contraction with the rate at which the needle falls backward in simple oscillation ; and when this is done , the author finds that the needle moves backward more slowly during contraction than it does when it is simply left to oscillate in the same direction .
It is found , indeed , that there is no reverse current during contraction , for if there were , the impulse of this current would be added to the impulse of oscillation , and ( as is the case where the platinum ends are used ) the needle would go backwards more quickly during contraction than it does when left to fall backwards from the same point under the influence of simple oscillation .
There is also another way of showing the non-existence of a reverse current during muscular contraction , namely , by modifying the experiment in the way which Prof. Du Bois Reymond employs to get rid of the secondary polarity of the platinum ends .
The only difference between the experiment as modified and the original experiment is this-that the wire of one of the electrodes is broken , and the broken ends are connected by being dipped into a small cup of mercury .
An arrangement is thus made by which the circuit may be easily broken and closed ' again .
In performing the modified experiment , the degree and direction of the current of the relaxed muscle is first observed .
Then the circuit is broken by removing the end of the divided electrode out of the cup of mercury , and the needle is allowed to return to zero .
In the next place , the muscle is tetanized , and while in this state , it is included in the circuit of the galvanometer by replacing the end 693 of the divided electrode in the mercury .
The result is simply this , that the needle moves in the same direction as that in which it moved under the current of the relaxed muscle , but not to the same distance from zero .
In other words , the muscular current is weakened but not changed in direction when the muscle passes into the state of contraction .
In the experiment in which Prof. Matteucci sees an intensification of the inuscular current during contraction without ainy change in direction , he takes a prepared frog , and after preserving a sufficieiitly long portion of the sciatic nerve , he amputates the thigh above the middle joint .
Then , taking the lower portion of the amputated thigh with the nerve attached to it , and placing the cut surface against an electrode of the galvanometer and the uncut surface against the other electrode , he watches the needle as it diverges under the current of the relaxed muscle .
After this , he brings about a state of contraction in the muscle , by irritating the nerve with a feeble interruipted current , and , looking at the needle , he sees it move in the same direction as that in which it had already moved under the current of the relaxed muscle .
That is to say , the needle shows , not weakening or change of direction , but actual intensification .
On repeating this experiment , the author finds that it is most difficult to draw any safe conclusion from it ; for in a thigh prepared in this manner it is almost impossible to keep the same point of the cut transverse surface in steady opposition to the electrode .
Indeed , the necessary effect of conitraction is to draw away the cut end from the electrode , and in this way to interrupt the entrance of the current of the contracted muscle inlto the circuit of the galvanometer .
The effect of contraction , moreover , is often to bring upon the electrode portions of muiscle which have not entered into the state of contraction , and in this way the only cturrent which finds admission into the galvaniometer may be that which is derived from r elaxed muscle .
This is often the case , and hence the apparent intensification of the muscular current during contraction , which is now and then witnessed in this experimenit ( it is not always witnessed ) , may , after all , be due to the irruption of additional quantities of the current of the relaxed muscle into the galvanometer .
At any rate , the experiment is one from which it is most difficult to draw any certain coniclusions .
694 In ordinary muscular contraction , then , there is good reason to believe that the muscular current is enfeebled-enfeebled to a degree approaching very closely to extinction ; and in rigor mortis all traces of muscular current have disappeared .
It appears , indeed , as if muscular contraction were antagonized by the muscular current .
In tracing out the history of muscular action from an electrical point of view , the author proceeds , in the next place , to consider the mode in which the muscular current is affected by the nervecurrent .
In doing this , after describing the peculiarities of the nerve-current , and relating a beautiful experiment of Prof. Du Bois Reymond , in which it is seen that the nerve-current agrees with the muscular current in exhibiting a positive loss of force during muscular contraction ; he interprets the reactions which must take place between the nerve-currenit and the muscular current by appealing to the history of the electrical organ of the torpedo and its congeners .
The interpretation is that the reactions during muscular contractiou are , not between the primary nerve-current and the muscular curtent , but between the muscular current and the secondary or induced curren6ts which may be supposed to spring into existence when the primary or inducing nerve-current is suspended or renewed .
The fact that the nerve-current sinks during contraction , is appealed to as an argument that the primary nerve-current is actually suspended and renewed during muscular contraction , and that in this manner the occasions for the appearance of the secondary or induced currents are thus properly provided for .
It is pointed out that the reactions between the uninterrupted nerve-current and the muscular current , and between the muscular current and the induced or secondary currents which come into play when the primary or inducing nerve-current is interrupted or renewed , must be altogether different .
With respect to the reactions which take place between the uniinterrupted nerve-cuirrent and the muscular current , there is reason to believe that these must result in mutual intensification , for the nervecurrent and the muscular current pass in the same direction .
At any rate this is the case in the hind-limbs of the frog , or the fore-limbs of the same animal , and in the hind-limbs of the rabbit , dog , cat , and mouse .
With respect to the reactions which take place between the muscular current and the secondary currents which come into play when the primary or inducing nerve-current is suspended or renewed , 695 there is every reason to believe that the result is altogether different .
In this case , it appears as if the secondary or induced current must involve , not the intensification , but the discharge of the muscular current in all the muscle which enters^into the circuit of the secondary current .
For what is the peculiarity of the secondary current ?
It is a current of momentary duration , disappearing almost in the very instant of its appearing , and carrying along with it in its discharge any electricity it may meet with in its circuit .
Hence there is no difficulty in understanding why the galvanometer should afford evidence of abatement of the muscular current at the moment when the nerves are concerned in producing muscular contraction .
Nor is there any difficulty in understanding how contraction should be brought about by this action of the nerves , if , as there has seemed some reason to believe , muscular contraction is antagonized by the presence of the muscular and nerve-currents .
The author proceeds , in the next place , to consider the phenomena which attend upon the action of the ordinary galvanic current upon the muscular current .
In this part it is pointed out that there is the same broad line to be drawn between the effects of the primary galvanic current and of the secondary currents which spring into existence when the inducing or primary current is suspended or renewed , and by keeping this distinction in mind it is shown that an intelligible physical reason may be obtained for the differences of the " direct " and " inverse " currents for " voltaic alternatives , " and so on .
The argument is complicated and not easily reducible to a few words ; it requires , moreover , certain diagrams which cannot be used in this abstract , and therefore we will only say that the conclusion to which it leads , is that there must be a distinct annihilation of the muscular current during muscular contraction when the muscle contracts under the galvanic current , and that the contraction is seen to be most marked when this annihilation is most complete .
" Reflecting upon these facts and considerations , " the author continues , " there appears to be nothing in the history of ordinary muscular contraction which does not harmionize with the electrical history of rigor mortis .
If the muscular current be present , rigor mortis is absent , and in this case it seerms as if the state of muscular contraction is antagonized by the muscular current .
In ordinary muscular 696 contraction , to all appearance , it is the same , and when the muscle is relaxed the muscular or the artificial current is present , and when the muscle is contracted the muscular current is weakened or anniIhilated .
It seems , indeed , as if the direct effect of the unirnterrupted current , whether natural or artificial , is to antagonize contraction ; and that this is really the case may be argued finally from the fact ( recently discovered by Dr. Eckhard ) that the state of tetanus is put an end to by the passage of a constant galvanic current through the tetanized arts .
" , Nor is there any reason to suppose that the contraction is produced by a kind of correlative transmutationi of electricity into contractile force .
In rigor mortis such an idea is scarcely tenable , for here the muscular current has died out slowly , and the contraction has n ot supervened until the last traces have disappeared .
In ordinary contraction , it might be supposed that there had been some transmutation of the muscular current into contractile force , or that an electric discharge had served as a stimulus to som-e vital property of contractility .
But this idea is contradicted ( this among other ways ) by the recent investigations of Dr. Hlarley upon the modus operandi of strychnia .
These investigations prove conclusively that this poison acts by making the blood less able to appropriate oxygen , and by impairing the irritability of the muscles .
They prove , that is to say , that strychnia produces contraction , by reducing the amlount of stimnulus supplied in the blood , and by rendering the nuscles less capable of responlding to any stimulus .
I find also that strychnia exercises a directly depressing influence upon the nervous and mnuiscular currents .
I place the two hind limnbs of the same frog , properly prepared , one in a weak solution of strychniia , the other in plain water , arid , leaving them to themselves , I find that the nerve and muscular currents have died out much sooner in the limb which has been acted upon by the strychnia .
Now , in this case , the liinbs have been left to themselves , and it cannot be said therefore that the nerve and muscular currents have been changed into contractile force by any kind of correlative transmutation .
Inideed , the facts would only seem to be intelligible on the supposition that , electrically conisidered , the strychnia has brought about conitraction according to the mode which has been set forth in the preceding pages .
Nor on this view is the fact less intelligible , that 697 the respiration of muscle is carried on more energetically in muscles which are made to contract than in muscles which are allowed to rest .
Prof. Matteucci , who has recently ratified this fact by some very elaborate investigations , holds that the chemical actions of muscular respirationi are transformed inito electricity , and the electrical into contractile force ; but there is just as good reason for supposing that the increased chemical action may be required to keep up the muscular current , which current is being continlually annihilated by the actions which bring about contraction .
And thus , after all , the increased respiration of muscles which are made to contract , may refer , not to the contraction , but to the renewal of the state of relaxation .
At any rate , it is scarcely possible to refer to this fact as an objection to the view which is set forth in this paper .
I " Regarded in an electrical point of view then , there appears to be good reason for concluding that the history of muscular action is in harmony with the theory which I have endeavoured to set forth at various times , and more recently in the second edition of a work having for its title , ' Epilepsy and other Conivulsive Affections , their Pathology and Treatment : '-a theory , according to which , in every case , pathological as well as physiological , muscular contraction is produced , not by the stimulation of any vital property of contractility belonging to muscle , but by the simple cessation of the action of certain agents-electricity , nervous influence , and others , which had previously kept the muscle in a state of relaxation or expansion .
" The following communications were also read :

