[ 377 ] XIV .
On the Development and Succession of the Poison-fangs of Snakes .
By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. Communicated by John Tomes , F.R.S. Received December 28 , 1875 , \#151 ; Read February 3 , 1876 .
In two papers which described the development of the teeth of Batrachia , Sauria , and Ophidia , which were laid before this Society , and appeared last year in the Philosophical Transactions , I gave a brief resume of the literature of the subject , so far as it was then known to me .
Between the dates of the reading of my paper and of its appearance in the Philosophical Transactions , Dr. Hertwig , of Jena* , published a paper on the development of the teeth of Amphibia , in which the figures and the descriptions conform , in most essential particulars , with those accompanying my own paper .
Although Dr. Hertwig does not include in his remarks the groups Sauria and Ophidia , I have gladly taken this opportunity to acknowledge his independent and practically contemporaneous publication of results nearly identical with my own .
As I have so lately summarized the opinions of other observers upon the development of reptilian teeth ( cfPhil .
Trans , part i. , 1875 ) , it will not be necessary for me to recapitulate them again in this paper ; but I may be allowed to pass directly to the peculiarities which mark the development of poison-fangs .
At the conclusion of my paper on the development of Ophidian teeth , I remarked that there were noteworthy peculiarities in the formation of poison-fangs , which , for the want of material , I had not been able t\lt ; \gt ; make out in all their details .
Since that time , by the kindness of my friends Prof. Garrod and Mr. Robertson , of Oxford , I have been enabled to unravel what was before obscure ; and the peculiarities of arrangement disclosed will , I venture to hope , be deemed of sufficient interest to justify me in laying them before this Society .
Of poison-fangs Prof. Owen ( Art .
" Odontology , " 4 Encyclopaedia Britannica ' ) says:\#151 ; " In the posterior part of the large mucous sheath of the poison-fang the successors of this tooth are always to be found in different stages of development ; the pulp is at first a simple papilla , and when it has sunk into the gum the succeeding portion presents a depression along its inferior surface , as it lies horizontally with its apex directed backwards .
The capsule adheres to this inflected surface of the pulp , and the introduction of the duct of the poison-gland is completed by the extension of the borders of the inflected pulp around that tube .
" Exception might be taken to several points in this description ; but as in my two earlier papers , and in a third , published in the first part of the Philosophical Transactions for * Archiv f. mikros .
Anatomy , Supplement-heft 1874 ( December ) .
this year , I have discussed the qualifications which need to be made before we can accept Prof. Owen 's description of the development of these or any other reptilian teeth , I have simply quoted his words here , as embodying what is commonly known of the development of poison-fangs .
Venomous snakes are divided into two groups\#151 ; the venomous colubrine , in which the poison-fang is attached to a fixed maxillary bone , so that it is always erect , and the wperine snakes , in which the maxillary bone carries no other teeth than the poison-fang , and is capable of a rotary motion , by which its fang is erected or laid recumbent ( Gunther 's 4 Reptiles of British India , ' Ray Society , p. 165 ) .
I have had better opportunities of investigating the poison-fangs of the viperine snakes than of the venomous colubrines , of which latter the cobra is the only one which I have been able to procure in a perfectly fresh condition ; but , as I shall presently show , there would appear to be well-marked differences in the succession between the two groups * .
The relations of poison-fangs to their successors may be most advantageously studied in transverse sections , the specimens having been previously hardened and decalcified in chromic acid .
The appearance presented will vary , according as the section is near to the tip or to the base of the fang .
I will commence by the description of a section taken midway in the length of the poison-fang of a rattlesnake ( Plate 37 .
fig. 2 ) .
The figure embraces that which would appear to the naked eye as an elevation when looking into the mouth of the snake\#151 ; that is to say , the recumbent tooth covered in by its loose fold of mucous membrane ( cin the figure ) and the subjacent region where lie the successional teeth .
At the upper part of the figure the poison-fang at present in use ( i ) is seen lying in a chamber in the mucous membrane , and since it is recumbent and parallel to the long axis of the jaw , it is in transverse section .
Beneath it ( or , as it would stand in the snake 's mouth , above it ) are a series of eight teeth of various ages , all seen in transverse section , the oldest lying nearest to the tooth already in use .
The successional teeth are not arranged in a single series , as would be the case in the ordinary serial teeth of the jaws ( cf. my paper in Phil. Trans. 1875 ) , but in a double row , being obviously placed in pairs .
A more careful inspection of one of these pairs will disclose that although there is no very great difference , yet one of the teeth is a little more advanced than the other .
Thus in fig. 2 No. 2 is a little more advanced , both in development and in position , than No. 3 , and is the tooth destined to be the next to move into its place and enter upon work .
Lower down in the series this difference in point of development is less apparent ; indeed the two constituting a pair are generally advanced to about the same stage in their construction .
I have affixed numbers to the several tooth-germs shown in figs. 1 and 2 to indicate * I have examined several specimens of Hydrophis which were preserved in spirit , and believe the arrangement of the successional teeth to he similar to that observed in Cobra ; but specimens long kept in diluted spirit are ill-suited for such investigations .
SUCCESSION OF THE POISON-FANGS OF SNAKES .
the order in which they would succeed to the tooth already in use .
It will be seen that the new tooth comes alternately from either side , No. 2 being on the left- and No. s on the right-hand side in fig. 2 .
There is an obvious advantage in such an arrangement , since it insures the least possible loss of time between the shedding-off of one poison-fang and its replacement by another ; but if the new tooth passed exactly into the position of its predecessor little or nothing would be gained .
Such is not the case , however ; there is room upon the surface of the maxillary bone which gives attachment to the poison-tooth for two teeth , side by side ( see fig. 4 ) .
The tooth actually in use occupies one side , where it is anchylosed by its base , side , and front , whilst its successor is getting ready to take possession of the vacant place by its side .
Thus one poison-fang occupies the innermost position possible on the maxillary bone , the next one the outermost , and so they go on alternating .
It will at once be obvious that such an arrangement of the successional poison-fangs is admirably adapted for securing a speedy replacement of a lost tooth ; and sections taken near to the base of attachment almost invariably ( unless it so happens that the attached tooth has only just become fixed and its predecessor but just shed off ) show a second tooth ( 2 in fig. 4 ) which is in the process of attachment by the rapid development of a coarse bone ( bin the figure ) about its base .
In fig. 2 ( 1 ) the tooth in place alone occupies the chamber in the pouch of mucous membrane which covers in the recumbent poison-fangs , all the successional teeth still remaining bedded in the mass of loose connective tissue in the midst of which they are developed .
In fig. 1 , however , a different stage in the process is represented ; it is taken from a section of the head of an English viper , in which I was so fortunate as to hit upon the moment , so to speak , of the change from an old tooth to a new one .
The chamber in the mucous membrane is seen to contain sections of teeth , which are separated from one another by a flap of connective tissue This flap of connective tissue , visible also in fig. 2 , is continuous with the slightly specialized connective tissue which lies between and separates the two series of successional teeth ; and an apparent use for it is very obvious , though only actual observation can determine whether it has any other .
It would seem probable that it serves to keep the advancing tooth to its own side , as it would be almost impossible for a tooth of the one series to get round it and so become wrongly placed on the side appropriated to the other series ; it would also serve , by limiting the space in which the advancing tooth lies , to keep it straight\#151 ; that is to say , to prevent it from diverging to the one side or the other in its own length .
In fig. 1 the tooth already used ( 1 ) is about to be cast off , and its successor ( 2 ) has already passed out of the region where teeth are being developed , and is doubtless becoming rapidly attached .
In fact fig. 4 is a section from the very same specimen , though , unfortunately for the comparison , the section has been mounted with the other surface uppermost , so that the sides are transposed .
However , 2 on the left of fig. 4 is the very same tooth as 2 on the right of fig. 1 , the first-named section being taken close 3 g 2 to its base , by which it will be anchylosed to the maxillary bone , this process being in fact already commenced * .
The development of poison-fangs in two parallel series , the teeth being arranged in pairs of almost equal ages , would suggest that the succession is very rapid and quite regular ; were it not so , one would expect to find that the teeth of one series would be very markedly in advance of their fellows in the parallel series , which is not the case .
Moreover the large number of successional teeth ( ten ) is unusual .
I know of but one other place where more than three teeth can be found in preparation to succeed a single tooth , and that place is in the jaws of Ophidia , where six or seven of the ordinary serial teeth , in different stages , may sometimes be seen .
I believe that the development of poison-fangs in two parallel series would be found to be the rule , if indeed it be not universal , in viperine poisonous snakes .
I can only positively answer for the English viper , the puff-adder , and the rattlesnake , these being the only poisonous snakes of this group which I have obtained quite fresh .
But , judging from the vacant spaces by the side of the attached poison-fangs in macerated skulls , the arrangement holds good in all viperine snakes that I have seen .
The region where teeth are being developed in a colubrine venomous snake , the Indian cobra , is strikingly different .
There is no double series , but the successional teeth are disposed in a single series , just like the teeth of a harmless snake , or the mandibular or pterygoid teeth of a poisonous snake .
In fact the description which I gave in a former paper of the manner in which the teeth of the harmless Ophidia are developed would apply strictly to the poison-fangs of a cobra , save only that the individual tooth-germs are modified to form canaliculated teeth .
In fig. 5 there is seen a line of inflected epithelium ( g ) running in from the oral epithelium ( a ) ; this , which goes to form the enamel-organs of successive germs , is lost sight of behind the first successional tooth-germ ( 2 ) ; its free extremity , already slightly dilated near where it will form a fresh enamel-organ , is seen at f. The section , having been taken a little behind the erect poison-fang already in use , shows no trace of this ; but sections including the working tooth do not in the cobra show much of its successors , which lie behind it and are recumbent , whilst it is erect .
The new tooth occupies more nearly the same spot as its predecessor than is the case in the Vipers .
It is , I think , a legitimate inference that the cobra , having lost one poison-fang , would remain unarmed for a longer period than a viperine snake , in which latter the new tooth is able to get into place and be ready to be fixed before the loss of its predecessor .
May this not explain the preference shown by the Indian jugglersf for the * Dr. Weir Mitchell ( " On the Venom of the Rattlesnake , " Smithsonian Contributions , 1861 ) had become aware that the succession was regular , and that the new tooth came up by the side of the old one ; he did not , however , arrive at a correct interpretation of the positions and movements of the successional teeth as they are developed and rise into place .
t Snake-charmers do , however , sometimes make use of viperine snakes , e. g. the Tic Polonga ( Daboia RusseUii ) .
SUCCESSION OF THE POISON-FANGS OF SNAKES .
381 cobra as a snake for snake-charming exhibitions ' ?
A cobra deprived of its poison-fangs would remain harmless for some little time , but a rattlesnake similarly disarmed would sooner replace its lost weapon .
The colubrine poisonous snakes are less specialized than those of the viperine type ; the maxillary bones are immovable , and are not very short ; they also often carry a few other teeth behind the poison-fang .
It is interesting to see that this lower degree of specialization is found in the processes of development and succession , so that the region in which the successional poison-fangs are being formed is strikingly similar to that in which the ordinary ophidian teeth are developed , whilst in the viperine snakes it is strikingly dissimilar and highly specialized .
To return to the consideration of the tooth-forming region of the vipers .
I have shown that the teeth are developed in two parallel series , separated by a connective-tissue partition , which is prolonged so as to hang as a free fold ( in figs. 1 \amp ; 2 ) into the pouch occupied by the working tooth , and that the new tooth is taken from the one or the other series alternately .
The successional teeth are arranged in two straight lines in the rattlesnake ( fig. 2 ) and in two curved lines in the viper ( fig. 1 ) but at another point in the rattlesnake 's head the lower successional teeth are arranged along a slight curve , so that this difference is not of any moment .
The appearances presented by the tooth-forming area differ according as the section is taken near to the base or near to the tip of the working tooth .
Close to the maxillary bone we see either the bases of two teeth , as in fig. 4 , or the base of one tooth and the vacant space just vacated by another , as would be seen if we had a section at the base of the teeth represented in fig. 2 .
A little further down we have the state of things represented in fig. 3 ( also from the same viper as figs. 1 \amp ; 4 ) , in which the bases of four teeth are seen , which may be identified and compared with those in the other figures by their numbers , whilst as we approach nearer to the tip of the working tooth as many as ten teeth come into view .
Nearer to the tip of the active tooth we have passed beyond the region where tooth-development is most active , so that figs. 1 \amp ; 2 may be taken as giving the best idea of the parts .
In order to make the relations of the several teeth to one another clear , I have constructed the diagram fig. 12 ( p. 382 ) , which is intended to show the positions of the transverse sections which have been figured on Plate 37 ; an actual drawing of a longitudinal section would not have answered the purpose so well , as the several teeth are so close together as to appear confused .
It now remains to give a short account of the structure and development of the individual teeth , and of the manner in which they become attached .
The earliest tooth-germ is not distinguishable from that of any other tooth .
A band of epithelium , which may be seen at fin figs. 1 \amp ; 10 , grows out into the connective tissue beyond the youngest germ ; its extremity becomes converted into an extinguisher-like enamel-organ covering over a newly forming dentine pulp .
A transverse section of such a young germ is shown in fig. 6 , and at s and 9 in fig. 2 .
The dentine pulp is surrounded by a thin Pig .
12.\#151 ; A diagram constructed from a comparison of many longitudinal sections .
An inspection of this serves to explain why figs. 1 \amp ; 2 show in transverse section as many as ten teeth , while sections nearer the base , e. g. figs. 3 \amp ; 4 , show but four and two teeth respectively .
layer of formed dentine , and outside this comes a continuous layer of enamel-cells ( internal epithelium of the enamel-organ ) .
A little later on , as the tooth-germ elongates , .a shallow depression appears on the one side ( fig. 8 ) into which the layer of enamel-cells runs without break ; the groove deepens , but at first the enamel-cells do not undergo any modification ( see fig. 7 ) in that groove which is to become the canal for the conveyance of the poison .
But at a later stage , when the crescentic pulp , with its layer of formed dentine around it , has arched round so that its extremities are approximating ( fig. 9 ) , a most remarkable change has taken place in that part of the enamel-organ which lines the groove .
No distinct layer of enamel-cells can any longer be traced , but the whole space included in the concavity of the crescent is occupied by a mass of branched cells , which in their general aspect strongly recall the stellate tissue or reticulum which forms so large a part of mammalian enamel-organs .
And as it is beyond all question that the enamel-organ , destined to play no active part in this concavity or canal , has become transformed into a sort of stellate tissue , are we to regard the stellate tissue of a mammalian enamel-organ as a retrograde metamorphosis of a superfluous tissue ?
Before becoming acquainted with the enamel-organ of a poison-fang I was aware , and had expressed an opinion , that the stellate tissue was quite non-essential , for there are many enamel-organs which form enamel of perfect structure and appreciable thickness which have never possessed any parts save their external and internal epithelium .
Ultimately this stellate tissue seems to wither up and leave the canal empty , so that we must regard it , in this place at all events , as a step on the way towards the disappearance of the enamel-cells ; and as it is hardly to be found in advance of the thin edge of calcified dentine , it does little more than fill a void .
A thin layer of enamel is formed round the exterior of a poison-fang ; but after what has been said , I need hardly say that no enamel lines the interior of the poison-canal .
SUCCESSION OF THE POISON-FANGS OF SNAKES .
There is nothing noteworthy about the dentinal pulps of poison-fangs ; but their manner of attachment to the bone merits a word or two of notice .
Looking with the naked eye at the bone which carries the poison-fangs , to which they are anchylosed by their bases , there is seen to be a sort of hood or parapet of bone rising up in front of the fangs .
This would appear to add to their strength , as the tendency of the blow struck by the snake would be to displace the tooth forwards .
This parapet of bone is seen in section in fig. 4 and fig. 3 ( m ) .
The firm attachment of the tooth is likewise secured by the form of its own base , which is convoluted ( see figs. 4 \amp ; 5 ) and recalls the structure of labyrinthodont teeth at that point in the crown where their complexity of structure first commences ; this convolution of the dentine at the base of a tooth which is attached by anchylosis is quite common in the teeth of both fishes and reptiles .
The dentine interdigitates with the supporting bone , the line of junction consisting of a cloudy opaque calcified tissue , in which , without the use of acids , no definite structure can be seen .
Immediately outside this there is very coarse bone , with very large irregular lacunae , which gradually merges into the regular fine-textured bone of the snake 's jaw .
When the new tooth is about to become attached , a sort of network or scaffolding of new bone is thrown out , which meets and interdigitates with the convoluted dentine , which is being simultaneously calcified .
This new bone , coarse in texture and very rapidly developed , springs up outside the tooth-sac , and takes its origin from the surface of the old bone ; it constitutes that " bone of attachment " to which I have elsewhere called attention as being invariably present where a tooth becomes fixed in place by the process of anchylosis .
This " bone of attachment , " present in large quantity both in the cobra and in viperine snakes , is specially developed for every tooth , and is removed when the tooth is shed , a fresh scaffolding being put forth for its successor .
The duct of the poison-gland was formerly supposed to become enclosed within the tube of the poison-fang by the process of the latter growing around it .
This , however , does not happen ; for that part of the tooth in which the groove has its lips closed , so as to form a tube , is completed before the tooth moves into place upon the maxillary bone .
That portion which is not thus completed is very short , and is impressed by an open groove only .
Moreover the new tooth comes by the side of the old one , and does not occupy the same spot , so that such an arrangement would be all but impossible .
The poison-duct opens close above the base of the tooth , where the groove in which the upper end of the poison-tube terminates is situated .
The close apposition of the hood of mucous membrane which covers the poison-fangs in secures a large proportion of the poison passing down it , but no more absolute communication than this takes place .
In longitudinal section the remnant of the enamel-organ within the tube has a superficial resemblance to a duct within the tooth , and by this I was at first deceived .
Examination of specimens in more perfect preservation , however , has rendered me certain that no sort of duct with soft walls exists within any part of the tube in the poison-fang .
Description op the Plate .
PLATE 37 .
The same lettering applies to all the figures .
1 .
The poison-fang at present in use .
2 .
The tooth which stands next in order to replace the one in use .
3 .
The third in order of succession , \amp ; c. a. Epithelium of the mouth .
d. Epithelium continued into the pouch .
b. Connective-tissue septum , which serves to keep to their respective sides the teeth of the two parallel series when they move into position .
c. Section of pouch of mucous membrane which covers in the poison-fangs whilst recumbent .
d. Formed dentine .
e. Enamel-cells of the enamel-organ .
e ' .
Enamel-cells in the groove which is to become the canal for the conveyance of the poison .
f. Process of epithelium passing beyond the youngest tooth-germ , from which the next enamel-organ will be formed .
g. Band of epithelium connecting the tooth-germs with the epithelium of the surface .
h. Space in which the poison-fang lies whilst at rest .
k. Coarse " bone of attachment .
" m. Maxillary bone .
n. Transverse bone .
p. Dentinal pulp .
Fig. 1 .
From English viper .
Transverse section of poison-fang and its nine successors .
The tooth in use ( i ) is on the point of being replaced by a successor ( 2 ) , which has already passed from the region in which it , was developed into the cavity of the pouch .
Between the two lies the connective-tissue flap , which helps to guide it into place , to keep it to its own side , and to keep it straight .
Beneath these two teeth are eight successors arranged in pairs in two parallel series , the new tooth being taken alternately from either side .
On the right ( f ) is a process of epithelium from which a new enamel-germ would be formed ; the corresponding epithelial process of the left-hand series of teeth is not clearly visible .
The position of this and some of the other sections will be better understood by a reference to the woodcut , fig. 12 ( p. 382 ) .
Tomes .
Phil. Trans. 1876 .
37 .
C.S. 'I'om\amp ; s WyfcstkCo .
Txth , .
SUCCESSION OF THE POISON-FANGS OF SNAKES .
Fig. 2 .
From a full-grown rattlesnake .
A section in most respects similar to fig. 1 , with the exception that the tooth in use ( i ) is not to be replaced so speedily as the corresponding tooth in fig. 1 .
The partition ( b ) is deflected to one side , there being only one tooth free in the pouch .
Fig. 3 .
English viper .
This section is taken from the same specimen as fig. 1 , but through a spot nearer to the fixed base of the tooth ( see Diagram , fig. 12 , p. 382 ) .
At the top of the figure is seen in section the parapet of bone which stretches up from the body of the maxillary bone in front of the teeth .
2 , s , 4 .
Portions of three successional tooth-germs occupying the remaining space between the parapet of the maxillary and the transverse bone .
Fig. 4 .
English viper .
From the same specimen as figs. 1 \amp ; 3 ; taken through the attached base of the poison-fang ( i ) .
It is to be noticed that there is room for two poison-fangs , side by side , and that these two positions are alternately occupied by the working teeth .
The tooth 2 , which is rapidly becoming attached , will be fixed in place by a framework of coarse bone ( # ) , which shoots out from the maxillary bone and becomes united with the dentine .
Fig. 5 , Indian cobra .
Transverse section , immediately behind the poison-fang .
The successional teeth come to occupy the same spot as their predecessors , and are developed , unlike those of viperine snakes , in a single series .
Compare this figure with that of the successional teeth of a harmless snake ( Phil. Trans , part i. 1875 ) .
Fig. 6 .
Transverse section of a very young tooth-germ from an English viper .
It does not differ as yet in any particular from the tooth-germ of any other Ophidian tooth .
Fig. 7 .
Viper .
Tooth-germ a little older .
The groove , to become afterwards a canal , has commenced , but as yet the enamel-organ occupying it is not altered from that surrounding the rest of the tooth .
Fig. 8 .
English viper , at a somewhat later stage .
Fig. 9 .
English viper , later stage .
The enamel-organ occupying the interior canal has become transformed into a tissue of stellate cells ( d ) .
Fig. 10 .
Process of epithelium , f ( enamel-germ of Kolliker ) , from which a yet younger enamel-organ will ultimately be formed ; at e , d is seen the youngest tooth-germ as yet actually formed .
mdccclxxvi .

