373 On a Type-reading Optophone .
By E. E. Fouknier d'Albe , D.Sc .
( Lond. and Birm .
) .
( Communicated by Sir Oliver Lodge , F.B.S. Beceived May 2 , \#151 ; Bead May 28 , 1914 .
) The production of sounds directly or indirectly due to the incidence of light is the general function of instruments of the type of Graham Bell 's " photophone .
" An instrument designed to solve the more special problem of substituting the sense of hearing for the sense of sight is more appropriately termed an " optophone .
" Having concerned myself for a number of years with this special problem , I described in 1912 an instrument which enabled sightless persons to locate bright lights or brightly luminous objects by means of the ear , and to discover shadows intercepting the light.* This result was obtained by putting two selenium preparations into two arms of a Wheatstone bridge , sending the galvanometer current through a telephone , and interrupting the current by a clockwork interrupter .
A disadvantage of the method was that the action of the light was not instantaneous .
This disadvantage was eliminated in the " reading optophone " described in 1913.1 The audible telephone current was produced by intermittent light of various musical frequencies , and by using 8 such frequencies , emitted by dots placed in a row , it was found possible to read transparent letters about 5 cm .
high by learning to recognise the characteristic sound of each letter .
In order to adapt this experimental instrument to the reading of ordinary letterpress by means of the ear , three further modifications were necessary : ( 1 ) The length of the line of luminous dots had to be reduced from 5 cm .
to about 1*5 mm. , the size of ordinary type ; ( 2 ) The light had to be used after diffused reflection by the printed surface ; ( 3 ) The sensitiveness of the telephone arrangement had ( as a consequence ) to be greatly augmented .
These modifications have now been made , and an instrument has resulted which should , with some practice , enable totally blind persons to read ordinary books and newspapers through the sense of hearing .
* ' Physikalische Zeitschrift , ' vol. 13 , pp. 942-943 , Oct. 1 , 1912 .
The instrument was shown at the Optical Convention of the United Kingdom , at South Kensington , on June 25 , 1912 .
+ The Electrician , ' vol. 72 , pp. 102-193 , Oct. 24 , 1913 .
The instrument was shown in action at Birmingham University , on the occasion of the meeting of the British Association .
On a Type-reading Optophone .
It consists of a small siren disc S , illuminated by a straight Eernst filament K " ; an optical arrangement for projecting an image of the line of luminous dots furnished by the revolving disc upon the type to be read ; a set of selenium or antimonite bridges exposed to the light reflected by the type ; a Brown telephone relay connected with these bridges ; and the telephone receiver used for reading .
The optical arrangement consists of a right-angled prism which directs the horizontal beam of light coming from the siren disc upwards through the short-focus portrait lens P on to the small aperture H in the flat slab upon H Telephone Telephone^ Motor which the sheet of letterpress is laid face downwards .
The focal plane of the line of dots coincides with the upper surface of the slab and with the printed sheet .
The selenium bridge is placed as closely as possible to the print , and is perforated to allow of the passage of the incident light .
The siren disc is driven by an electric motor or a train of wheels actuated by a weight .
Constancy of speed is desirable , but not absolutely essential .
When this is done , and a printed sheet is passed over the slab , the maximum sound is heard in the telephone when the paper exposed is white , and the minimum when it is black .
The actual sound heard depends upon the shape of the letter .
The small line of dots , 1*5 mm. long , is made to illuminate each letter in turn , the print being moved steadily in the direction of the printed line , which is at right angles to the luminous line of dots .
The print is so adjusted that the line of dots just covers the Studies of the Processes Operative in Solutions .
375 maximum height of the type used .
The dots should be at least eight in number , six for the body of the letter , covering the whole height of such letters as a and e , and one dot each for the upper portion of such letters as f and k , and for the lower portion of such letters as p and g. The note of each dot must be chosen so that it is easy to recognise its omission ( not its presence , as in the case- of the reading optophone previously described ) .
Good results have been obtained with a set of notes with which both concords and discords can be obtained , according to the letters exposed .
Such a series of notes is the following : g c 'd ' e ' g ' b ' c " e " .
But different arrangements may suit different ears .
A simple focussing device enables the operator to alter the length of the line of dots , and so adapt it to various sizes of type .
It is essential , in reading a line of type , that the alignment be perfect .
This is ensured by a sliding device on the reading slab .
I wish to thank my lecture assistant , Mr. A. E. Vick , for his effective help in constructing the first working model of the instrument ; and especially Sir Oliver Lodge for the kind interest he has taken in the whole investigation .
Studies of the Processes Operative in Solutions .
XXIX.\#151 ; The Disturbance of the Equilibrium in Solutions by " Strong " and " Weak " Interfering Agents .
By H. E. Armstrong , F.K.S. , and E. E. Walker , B.Sc. ( Deceived May 7 , \#151 ; Bead May 28 , 1914 .
) In a recent communication of this series ( XXVI ) , * it was contended , that the change in the optical rotatory power of an aqueous solution of fructose which is produced by dissolving in the liquid a second substance , whether this be a salt or a non-electrolyte , is the consequence of an alteration in the proportion in which the two isodynamic forms of the compound are present in equilibrium .
It was shown that substances such as the monhydric alcohols cause the change to take place in a direction opposite to that in which it takes place when substances such as sugar and salts are added : a similar antithesis has been observed in the course of these studies in numerous E. E. Walker , " The Disturbance of the Equilibrium in Solutions of Fructose by Salts and by Non-electrolytes , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 88 , p. 246 ( 1913 ) .

