16 Miss E. Dale .
On the Abnormal Outgrowths or \lt ; \#163 ; Further Investigations on the Abnormal Outgrowths dr Intumescences in Hibiscus vitifolius , Linn. : a Study in Experimental Plant Pathology .
" By Elizabeth Dale .
Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.K.S. Deceived November 22,1900 , \#151 ; Bead February 7 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) During the summer of 1899 some preliminary experiments were made in order to investigate the conditions determining the formation of certain outgrowths of which the structure had previously been examined.* These outgrowths consist chiefly of greatly enlarged and multiplied epidermal cells , with very thin walls ; but the underlying parenchyma is often also affected .
The cells concerned always lie immediately around a stoma , so that the guard-cells are lifted up as the outgrowth developes .
The distribution of the outgrowths is therefore dependent upon that of the stomata , and they are pathological in origin and nature .
This year ( 1900 ) further experiments have been undertaken , which confirm and extend the conclusions suggested by the earlier work , and which show that we have here a clear case of a pathological phenomenon brought under control .
The plants used were chiefly Hibiscus vitifolius , hut some observations were also made on Ipomeci Woodii .
The experiments were designed to test the effects of moisture and light in inducing the formation of the intumescences , but they also served to show the influence of temperature .
Most of them were made in the open air , as the outgrowths always arise on plants grow ing in a greenhouse .
I. In order to test the effects of moisture in the air and in the soil , plants were kept with their shoots in dry or moist air , and their roots in dry or damp soil .
Various combinations of dry or damp air oi soil were used , with the result that outgrowths were always formed m damp air ( provided there was sufficient light and heat ) , wheieas damp soil had no effect .
II .
The effects of light were tested by growing plants in white light of varied intensity , and under glass of different colours .
Outgrowths were developed under clear and whitewashed glass , and under red and yellow glass , but not under blue or green glass , nor in poor light , and never in darkness .
III .
Observations as to the influence of temperature showed that , * Dale , " On Certain Outgrowths ( Intumescences ) on the Green Parts of Hibiscus vitifolius , Linn. , " ' Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc. , ' vol. 10 , Part 4 .
Intumescences in Hibiscus vitifolius , Linn. 17 given the other necessary conditions , the formation of outgrowths is promoted by heat .
Large outgrowths may be artifically induced with certainty in about two days on a single healthy branch ( still attached to the plant ) , by isolating it in a damp atmosphere , and exposing it to a strong light at a high temperature .
The following is a brief summary of the principal experiments and conclusions:\#151 ; Effects of Moisture .
Number of experiment .
Conditions of experiment .
Result .
Remarks , , 1 Slioot in open air ; root in No outgrowths Growth rapid and plant moderately damp soil formed very healthy .
la Shoot , in air of greenhouse ; Outgrowths The leaves soon droproot in wet , undrained soil formed ped off , and the plant ultimately died , after experiment was stopped .
lb Shoot in open air ; root in No outgrowths Leaves dropped off , but wet , undrained soil formed the plant recovered when experiment was stopped .
2 a Shoot in air of greenhouse ; root in damp , undrained soil Outgrowths formed Leaves became yellow !
26 Shoot in open air ; root in No outgrowths damp , drained soil formed and curled under .
3 a Shoot in air of greenhouse ; root in damp , drained soil Outgrowths formed 3 b Shoot in damp air ; root in damp , drained soil 5 9 99 3c 95 59 55 9\#187 ; 99 4 Shoot in damp air : root in dry soil Shoot in dry air ; root in 9 9 9 9 5 No outgrowths Growth retarded .
dry soil formed j 6 Shoot in very dry air ; root in dry soil 59 99 99 99 7a One shoot ( attached to Many out- In bright sunlight and the plant ) isolated in damp air growths , on the isolated shoot only hot weather .
7b 9 ) 99 5\gt ; 59 59 59 99 59 j 7c 59 \gt ; \gt ; 99 A few outgrowths , on the isolated branch only In cool , almost sunless b weather .
\#166 ; 8 One shoot ( attached to No outgrowths plant ) isolated in water formed I .
I VOL. LXVIII .
C 18 Abnormal Outgrowths or Intumescences Hibiscus vitifolius .
Effects of Light .
Number of experiment , j Conditions of experiment .
Result .
| Remarks .
9 Poor light ; no sun No outgrowths formed 10 a Light passing through yellow glass Outgrowths formed 10 5 Light passing through a solution of potassium chromate 55 n I 11 Light passing through red glass Light passing through 55 55 12a No outgrowths blue glass formed A 125 Light passing through a solution of copper sulphate and ammonia 55 55 13 Light passing through green glass 55 55 14 Light passing through whitewashed glass Outgrowths formed I 15a Plant in darkness in a greenhouse No outgrowths formed 155 Plant in darkness under a 5 5 55 i 1 zinc cylinder in the open Effects of Temperature .
The formation of outgrowths ( provided there is adequate moisture and light ) is promoted by a high temperature .
The conclusions drawn from the above experiments are , that the outgrowths are formed in a moist atmosphere , provided that there is also adequate light and heat .
The immediate effect of the damp atmosphere is to check transpiration .
This , in its turn , by blocking the tissues with water , disturbs the normal course of metabolism , and so leads ( when the light and heat are sufficient ) to changes in the metabolic activity of the plant , as is shown by the following facts :\#151 ; 1 .
The outgrowths only develop if transpiration is reduced .
2 .
The outgrowths are chiefly formed on organs which are actively assimilating , e.g. , under ordinary , red or yellow glass ; but only if transpiratory activity is lowered : they are not formed in the open .
3 .
They only occur ( ceteris paribus ) in plants in which there is an accumulation of starch .
4 .
They are formed under clear glass and under red and yellow glass , but not under blue or green glass , and in no case in darkness .
Equations of Propagation of Electric Waves .
5 .
Their formation is accompanied by the production of oil , which is not found in normal leaves .
6 .
The presence of this oil suggests that events similar to those occurring in succulent plants are taking place , viz. , reduced respiration and the development of osmotically active substances in excess .
7 .
It is therefore probable that the intumescences are due to the local accumulation of osmotically active substances , produced under the abnormal conditions , viz. , reduced transpiration and consequent lack of minerals , while caroohydiates are being developed in excess .
" The Integration of the Equations of Propagation of Electric Waves .
" By A. E. H. Love , F.E.S. Eeceived December 29 , 1900 , \#151 ; Eeacl February 7 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The equations of propagation of electric waves , through a dielectric medium , involve two vector-quantities , which may be taken to be the electric force and the magnetic force ; and they express the rate of change , per unit of time , of either vector , in terms of the local values of the other .
Various forms may be given to the equations , notably , that employed by Larmor , in which the magnetic force is regarded as a velocity , and the electric force as the corresponding rotation .
In this form there is one fundamental vector , viz. , the displacement corresponding to the magnetic force , regarded as a velocity ; and this displacement-vector may , in turn , be derived from a veetoi potential .
Every one of the vectors in question is circuital , and the several components of them satisfy the partial differential equation of wave propagation , viz. , \lt ; /\gt ; = c2V2\lt ; f\gt ; , e being the velocity of radiation .
One way of integrating the equations is to seek pa/ t ticuhu systems of functions of the co-ordinates and the time , which , being substituted for the components of the vectors , satisfy the equations ; more general solutions can be deduced by synthesis of such particular solutions .
Owing to the circuital relations , certain known solutions of the partial differential equation of wave propagation are not available , for representing the components of the vectors .
A very general system of particular solutions , which are available for this purpose , is obtained .
These particular solutions are expressed in terms of spherical harmonics and arbitrary functions of the time ; and they can be regarded as generalisations of others , given by Lamb , which depend in the same way upon spherical harmonics , and contain simple harmonic functions of the time .
By means of them , we can describe two types of sources of electiie

